New year, new laws: Giannoulias initiated laws take effect - Evanston RoundTable Stay in the know with our free newsletters! Join more than 10,000 Evanstonians already receiving the RoundTable newsletter in their inbox each morning. Daily Brief Evanston’s latest news and features Raising Evanston 1X week: everything E-town for families Sign up Already signed up? Just close out this popup. Or submit your email to keep this from displaying again on this device. Close Sign In Search for: Search CITY SCHOOLS ART & LIFE PUBLIC SQUARE RAISING EVANSTON SPORTS ENVIRONMENT FOOD CALENDAR NEWSLETTER DONATE About us Jobs Advertise Mobile app Submit a letter Business Photos Weddings RT Merch Obituaries FAQ Contact us Facebook Twitter Instagram BlueSky RSS Close Skip to content About us Jobs Advertise Mobile app Submit a letter Business Photos Weddings RT Merch Obituaries FAQ Contact us Facebook Twitter Instagram BlueSky RSS Evanston RoundTable Evanston's community newspaper since 1998 Sign In Open Search Search for: Search Donate Menu Sign In CITY SCHOOLS ART & LIFE PUBLIC SQUARE RAISING EVANSTON SPORTS ENVIRONMENT FOOD CALENDAR NEWSLETTER DONATE Posted in Public Square New year, new laws: Giannoulias initiated laws take effect Initiatives call for safe driving, expanded voter registration & preventing book bans by Submitted January 2nd, 2024 January 6th, 2024 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Nextdoor (Opens in new window) Nextdoor Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Print (Opens in new window) Print Sign up for our free newsletters ! Daily Brief Evanston’s latest news and features Raising Evanston 1X week: everything E-town for families Sign up Submitted by the Illinois Secretary of State’s Office Several new laws initiated by Illinois Secretary of State Alexi Giannoulias take effect this week. The initiatives were passed in 2023 by the Illinois General Assembly before being signed into law. “I wish all Illinoisans a safe, healthy and happy New Year. The laws going into effect today will make our roads safer, increase voter access and protect our libraries and librarians,” Giannoulias said. “But this is just the beginning. My office has big plans for 2024 as we continue to strive to deliver the best possible results for all Illinoisans.” In an effort to combat distracted driving, House Bill 2431 makes it illegal to Zoom, watch or stream videos, or access social media sites while driving. This legislation will ensure drivers keep their eyes and attention on the road, making Illinois roadways safer for all Illinois motorists. It is now easier for young Illinoisans to guarantee that they are eligible to vote when they turn 18. Under Senate Bill 2123, teens obtaining their driver’s license or state ID card may register to vote at an Illinois Driver and Motor Vehicle (DMV) facility. This legislation increases voter participation and access, ensuring that young people have a voice on the issues that have a direct and tangible impact on their lives, especially student loan debt, the economy and education. In order to qualify for grant funding in 2024, Illinois libraries are now required to adhere to the American Library Association’s (ALA) Library Bill of Rights or issue a statement prohibiting the practice of banning books or resources. This first-in-the-nation legislation guards against censorship, protects librarians and preserves the purpose of education: teaching children to think for themselves. Individuals seeking abortion care and undocumented immigrants will feel more at-ease while traveling on Illinois roads knowing that the use of automatic license plate readers (ALPRs) is now regulated in the state. House Bill 3326 prohibits the use of data collected with ALPRs to track innocent people or criminalize lawful behavior. While ALPRs can be a valuable tool for law enforcement, this regulation will prevent abuse, harassment and unlawful surveillance. That air freshener hanging from the rearview mirror is no longer grounds to get pulled over by police in Illinois. Credit: Erik Mclean/Pexels.com Illinois drivers can now feel free to hang an air freshener, COVID-19 mask or rosary from their vehicle’s rearview mirror without the worry of getting pulled over. House Bill 2389 makes it illegal for police to stop motorists for the presence of hanging items, decreasing unnecessary encounters over minor infractions, which can lead to discriminatory practices and violent confrontations between police and motorists. Libraries, the cornerstones of Illinois communities, will now have an easier time making digital resources available to residents across the state, regardless of where they live. Senate Bill 2419 authorizes the Secretary of State’s office to negotiate with e-book and audiobook publishers to acquire digital rights to these materials at lower prices. Support the RoundTable! As a financial supporter of the RoundTable, your contribution throughout the year powers our work covering all the vital news that matters in Evanston! Please consider making an additional gift! One-time Monthly Annually One-time $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount $ Monthly $10 $20 $40 Other Donation amount per month $ Annually $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount per year $ Your contribution is tax-deductible. We appreciate your support! Donate Now Support the RoundTable! Your commitment as a MONTHLY SUSTAINING DONOR helps us the most! Recurring contributions – at all levels – enable us to build a viable newsroom that will serve Evanston for the next 25 years! One-time Monthly Annually One-time $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount $ Monthly $10 $20 $40 Other Donation amount per month $ Annually $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount per year $ Your contribution is tax-deductible. We appreciate your support! Donate Now Related Stories One reply on “New year, new laws: Giannoulias initiated laws take effect” Tom Wallace says: January 3rd, 2024 at 9:47 AM Suggestion.. ..you need to let someone who made a comment, that others have responded to your comment and or also commented on the topic. Should be easy since you have the commentators email address, otherwise, why bother to comment? Set it up like the web site NextDoor has in keeping people informed about thoughts on the topic. Regards, Tom Wallace Comments are closed. Latest News Shop Evanston Made hosts grand opening during Arts & Craft Beverage Crawl May 11th, 2026 City of Evanston seeks input via survey from business owners for new retail initiative May 11th, 2026 Evanston Police Department to join ‘Click It or Ticket’ campaign during Memorial Day travel period May 11th, 2026 Teacher of the year honored at Childcare Network event May 11th, 2026 Your Monday newsletter May 11th, 2026 Trending City will implement parking minimum ban without changes More changes at Roycemore School announced Saturday Capturing the moment: Families gather for prom send-off photos Evanston, North Shore communities plan major bike lane expansions, but completion is years away Second Evanston man charged with attempted murder in April's Mason Park shooting Housing plan returns to City Council with long list of proposed changes Here in Evanston: Hard questions ETHS boys track and field: Kits race to three school records, rule Thornton invite Roycemore may sell Davis Street building, three school leaders out, 2026-27 school year still uncertain Steve Hagerty: Even at 57, you call your mom Facebook Twitter Instagram BlueSky RSS Home Page City News Schools Art & Life Public Square Food and Dining Sports Obituaries Podcasts and video Reparations Evanston History Our mission About us Advisory Committee Board of Directors Donate Diversity, equity and inclusion Get the newsletter Read us on your mobile device Submit a letter to the editor Advertise with us Contact us Evanston RoundTable privacy notice Thank You to our 2025 RoundTable Donors! The Evanston RoundTable is the community’s leading source of news about local government, schools, civic and artistic activities, and other important issues facing our city. We seek to foster civic engagement and empower people to address complex issues facing our diverse community, promoting a better understanding and appreciation of people of all races, ethnicities, and income levels. Evanston Roundtable 1514 Elmwood Avenue Suite 2 Evanston, Illinois 60201 847.864.7741 © 2026 Evanston RoundTable Media NFP Powered by Newspack Evanston RoundTable privacy notice Sign in Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) By signing up, you agree to our Terms and Conditions. Gift this article Close Link Copy link categories tags Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close