Fourth Ward hears city's preparations for looming federal occupation of Chicago - Evanston RoundTable Stay in the know with our free newsletters! Join more than 10,000 Evanstonians already receiving the RoundTable newsletter in their inbox each morning. Daily Brief Evanston’s latest news and features Raising Evanston 1X week: everything E-town for families Sign up Already signed up? Just close out this popup. Or submit your email to keep this from displaying again on this device. Close Sign In Search for: Search CITY SCHOOLS ART & LIFE PUBLIC SQUARE RAISING EVANSTON SPORTS ENVIRONMENT FOOD CALENDAR NEWSLETTER DONATE About us Jobs Advertise Mobile app Submit a letter Business Photos Weddings RT Merch Obituaries FAQ Contact us Facebook Instagram Twitter BlueSky RSS Close Skip to content About us Jobs Advertise Mobile app Submit a letter Business Photos Weddings RT Merch Obituaries FAQ Contact us Facebook Instagram Twitter BlueSky RSS Evanston RoundTable Evanston's community newspaper since 1998 Sign In Open Search Search for: Search Donate Menu Sign In CITY SCHOOLS ART & LIFE PUBLIC SQUARE RAISING EVANSTON SPORTS ENVIRONMENT FOOD CALENDAR NEWSLETTER DONATE Posted in City News Fourth Ward hears city’s preparations for looming federal occupation of Chicago Officer says Evanston PD is searching for new license plate readers after Flock shutdown by Alex Harrison September 3rd, 2025 September 3rd, 2025 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Nextdoor (Opens in new window) Nextdoor Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Print (Opens in new window) Print Sign up for our free newsletters ! Daily Brief Evanston’s latest news and features Raising Evanston 1X week: everything E-town for families Sign up The threat of a federal incursion to Evanston’s south hung over the Fourth Ward meeting Tuesday evening, as officials spoke about precautions the city is taking ahead of an imminent occupation of Chicago by federal immigration agents and potentially National Guard soldiers. After weeks of escalating rhetoric against the nation’s third-largest city, President Donald Trump said in a press conference Tuesday afternoon that the feds will be “going in” to Chicago for a renewed removal operation led by agents of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE. Staging has reportedly started at Naval Station Great Lakes in Lake County, and Trump has threatened to deploy National Guard troops, as part of a so-called “anti-crime crackdown” as in Washington, D.C. A federal judge ruled Tuesday morning that a similar move in Los Angeles in June was illegal under a law prohibiting the military’s use in domestic law enforcement. Speaking to residents attending online and at the Robert Crown Community Center, Councilmember Jonathan Nieuwsma (4th Ward) shared information on the updated Welcoming City Ordinance and “Know Your Rights” materials created to help prepare residents for potential interactions with ICE agents. He also discussed two proposed pieces of legislation focused on the increasingly common practice of federal agents concealing their faces with masks and hiding which specific agency they are affiliated with. previous coverage New Illinois law protecting students is ‘relief’ in Evanston immigrant community by Hope Perry and Nadia Carolina Hernandez August 26th, 2025 August 27th, 2025 Community members step up to support immigrants amid local ICE arrests by Nadia Carolina Hernandez July 24th, 2025 October 30th, 2025 Faith communities host info session on immigration searches by Joerg Metzner March 10th, 2025 March 12th, 2025 Legislation and uniforms The two proposals are a resolution calling on the U.S. Congress and Illinois General Assembly to prohibit federal agents from wearing face masks and an ordinance strengthening the city’s existing law against impersonating law enforcement . “It’s already illegal,” Nieuwsma said of the impersonation ordinance. “We’ll be increasing that fine pretty substantially.” Both pieces were unanimously approved by the city’s Human Services Committee earlier Tuesday evening, and are expected to go before the City Council on Monday. City staff released a public statement with more details on the legislation after the vote. “The City firmly opposes anonymous enforcement tactics, emphasizing the urgent need for increased transparency and communication between federal law enforcement and communities,” the statement reads. “By advocating for these changes, Evanston seeks to foster a climate of trust, ensuring that the rights and dignity of all individuals are upheld during all law enforcement operations.” The shield emblem used by the Evanston Police Department in officers’ shoulder patches and on the sides of squad cars. Credit: Evanston Police Department Back at Robert Crown, Ofc. Nate Basner, who regularly attends Fourth Ward meetings to share public safety updates, also shared that Police Chief Schenita Stewart “sent out a general order just today” reinforcing that officers’ uniforms must clearly identify them as local Evanston police. “It’s something we normally did anyway, but [the order is] just to ensure that, as I am visible to you now,” Basner said, pointing to his uniform’s shoulder patch, “that I have something [with] ‘Evanston Police’ on the front or on the side of my uniform that indicates that I’m an Evanston police officer.” EPD searching for new plate camera vendor Nieuwsma also mentioned the city’s decision last week to shut down its network of automated license plate readers (ALPRs) and terminate its contract with Flock Safety. Basner said that despite it being a “good investigative tool,” reports that the private vendor had “pilot programs” for sharing data with federal law enforcement persuaded the department to “decline to further our contract,” adding that other potential vendors are being explored. previous coverage Evanston shuts down license plate cameras, terminates contract with Flock Safety by Alex Harrison August 26th, 2025 August 28th, 2025 Flock challenges city’s termination of contract for license plate readers by Alex Harrison August 28th, 2025 August 28th, 2025 “Unfortunately, due to Flock’s misstep, we’re going to have to find another ALPR company to get that investigative tool back up and running,” Basner said. “Flock has said they are going to amend things, but I don’t know if that’ll necessarily mean we reenter our contract with them.” Though the cameras are off, Flock isn’t keen on letting Evanston terminate its contract, which calls for the city to pay nearly $150,000 for service through January 2029. Dan Haley, the company’s chief legal officer, wrote to the city last week that the city’s termination notice was “replete with conclusory and unsupported assertions” and that the company “denies categorically” that it broke any laws or terms of the contract. Nieuwsma mentioned a lawsuit could be on the way, but was unfazed by the prospect. “We’ll see a report” on the legal challenge, Nieuwsma said. “I like our chances.” City spokesperson Cynthia Vargas declined to comment Tuesday on the status of the Flock contract’s termination, citing it as a “pending legal matter.” No lawsuits between the city and the company could be found using public search tools at time of writing, but Haley wrote in his Aug. 27 letter that Flock intends to “take all necessary steps to enforce” the contract. Editor’s note: This story has updated to correct a typo in a quote. Support the RoundTable! As a financial supporter of the RoundTable, your contribution throughout the year powers our work covering all the vital news that matters in Evanston! Please consider making an additional gift! One-time Monthly Annually One-time $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount $ Monthly $10 $20 $40 Other Donation amount per month $ Annually $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount per year $ Your contribution is tax-deductible. We appreciate your support! Donate Now Support the RoundTable! Your commitment as a MONTHLY SUSTAINING DONOR helps us the most! Recurring contributions – at all levels – enable us to build a viable newsroom that will serve Evanston for the next 25 years! One-time Monthly Annually One-time $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount $ Monthly $10 $20 $40 Other Donation amount per month $ Annually $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount per year $ Your contribution is tax-deductible. We appreciate your support! Donate Now Related Stories Tagged: Councilmember Jonathan Nieuwsma , Flock Safety , National Guard Soldiers Alex Harrison Senior Reporter Alex Harrison reports on local government, public safety, housing and homelessness, town-gown relations and more for the RoundTable. He graduated from Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism... More by Alex Harrison Join the Conversation 1 Comment The RoundTable will try to post comments within a few hours, but there may be a longer delay at times. Comments containing mean-spirited, libelous or ad hominem attacks will not be posted. Your full name and email is required. We do not post anonymous comments. Your e-mail will not be posted. We do not publish comments that endorse political candidates, due to our nonprofit status. Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ John Treacy says: September 3rd, 2025 at 7:15 PM 59 shootings and 9 deaths over one 3 day weekend. Numbers akin to those of a low intensity military conflict. And the numbers do not include strong arm robberies, knife assaults and beatings. The state and city leaders should WELCOME outside help to combat out of control violence, although help from State Police, US Marshalls and other federal civilian law enforcement personnel would be more practical than National Guar deployment. Sadly, the governor and Mayor Johnson are more interested in anti Trump posturing than in safeguarding the lives of the beleaguered residents of Chicago. Discussion about deployment of the Guard to Evanston is just plain silly. Evanston is experiencing nothing anywhere near the lawlessness being inflicted upon our near neighbors. Evanstonians experience like danger only when riding the Red Line to work or walking the Chicago streets after arriving there. Reply Latest News Evanston joins Bloomberg Philanthropies Youth Action Fund for youth to drive climate solutions May 14th, 2026 ETHS girls track: Triple threat Maljevic leads Kit girls to State May 14th, 2026 Youth performers to take center stage in ‘Circus Noir’ at Actors Gymnasium this weekend May 14th, 2026 How District 65 aims to foster ‘deeper culture of sustainability’ May 14th, 2026 Your Thursday newsletter May 14th, 2026 Trending District 65 Assistant Superintendent Katie Speth to resign Northwestern has no plan for repairs to vacant homes it owns Roycemore alumni analysis: Financial warning signs existed for years A step back in time at Evanston house walk Northlight Theatre's first drama Willard, Chute subject to ‘threatening messages’ Monday; no active threat District 202 re-elects board leadership, installs new student member ETHS student wins National Merit Scholarship ETHS ends no-credit absence policy, citing inequitable enforcement Guest Essay: The five lessons I learned from running for state Senate Facebook Instagram Twitter BlueSky RSS Home Page City News Schools Art & Life Public Square Food and Dining Sports Obituaries Podcasts and video Reparations Evanston History Our mission About us Advisory Committee Board of Directors Donate Diversity, equity and inclusion Get the newsletter Read us on your mobile device Submit a letter to the editor Advertise with us Contact us Evanston RoundTable privacy notice Thank You to our 2025 RoundTable Donors! The Evanston RoundTable is the community’s leading source of news about local government, schools, civic and artistic activities, and other important issues facing our city. We seek to foster civic engagement and empower people to address complex issues facing our diverse community, promoting a better understanding and appreciation of people of all races, ethnicities, and income levels. Evanston Roundtable 1514 Elmwood Avenue Suite 2 Evanston, Illinois 60201 847.864.7741 © 2026 Evanston RoundTable Media NFP Powered by Newspack Evanston RoundTable privacy notice Sign in Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) By signing up, you agree to our Terms and Conditions. Gift this article Close Link Copy link categories tags Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close