FOIA records reveal Evanston data accessible to out-of-state police making ICE searches - Evanston RoundTable Stay in the know with our free newsletters! Join more than 10,000 Evanstonians already receiving the RoundTable newsletter in their inbox each morning. Daily Brief Evanston’s latest news and features Raising Evanston 1X week: everything E-town for families Sign up Already signed up? Just close out this popup. Or submit your email to keep this from displaying again on this device. Close Sign In Search for: Search CITY SCHOOLS ART & LIFE PUBLIC SQUARE RAISING EVANSTON SPORTS ENVIRONMENT FOOD CALENDAR NEWSLETTER DONATE About us Jobs Advertise Mobile app Submit a letter Business Photos Weddings RT Merch Obituaries FAQ Contact us Facebook Twitter Instagram BlueSky RSS Close Skip to content About us Jobs Advertise Mobile app Submit a letter Business Photos Weddings RT Merch Obituaries FAQ Contact us Facebook Twitter Instagram BlueSky RSS Evanston RoundTable Evanston's community newspaper since 1998 Sign In Open Search Search for: Search Donate Menu Sign In CITY SCHOOLS ART & LIFE PUBLIC SQUARE RAISING EVANSTON SPORTS ENVIRONMENT FOOD CALENDAR NEWSLETTER DONATE Posted in City News FOIA records reveal Evanston data accessible to out-of-state police making ICE searches Unclear whether city responded to immigration-enforcement searches by Alex Harrison June 16th, 2025 August 28th, 2025 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Nextdoor (Opens in new window) Nextdoor Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Print (Opens in new window) Print Sign up for our free newsletters ! Daily Brief Evanston’s latest news and features Raising Evanston 1X week: everything E-town for families Sign up An automated license plate reader (on black pole) in Evanston just east of the North Shore Channel. The camera looks east along Oakton Street. Credit: Alex Harrison The Evanston Police Department shared its network of 18 automatic license plate readers with at least seven out-of-state agencies that sent vehicle searches to other Illinois cities for immigration enforcement cases, according to a RoundTable analysis of public records obtained via the Freedom of Information Act. The agencies were matched between records disclosed by EPD and the police departments of Mount Prospect and Danville, all of which contract with surveillance technology company Flock Safety to use its license plate reader hardware and software. Evanston has 18 stationary cameras, primarily installed along the city’s boundaries with Chicago to the south and Skokie to the west, as well as a mobile “flex” camera that can be attached to a squad car. Independent outlet 404 Media reported in May that Mount Prospect and Danville had been included in out-of-state searches for cases concerning abortion and immigration enforcement . In response, lllinois Secretary of State Alexi Giannoulias on Thursday ordered a statewide audit of license plate reader use to ensure compliance with a 2023 state law that prohibits agencies from sharing their data with agencies investigating people for accessing reproductive health or over their immigration status. previous coverage Statewide audit ordered for license plate readers used in Evanston by Alex Harrison June 13th, 2025 June 13th, 2025 Agencies that use Flock are able to search data from cameras well beyond their own borders, allowing for broad searches that include data from tens of thousands of cameras across the country. In addition to the protections of state law, Evanston updated its Welcoming City Ordinance in January to prohibit sharing data with federal immigration agencies or groups that assist with civil immigration enforcement, and on June 23 City Council is set to consider a similar Health Data Protection Ordinance designed to protect reproductive and gender-affirming health care. Matching out-of-state agencies The RoundTable cross-referenced the list of agencies EPD shares its Flock network with as of June 4, obtained through a FOIA request, with “network audit” records listing information on external license plate reader searches posted to public records database MuckRock: one set for Mount Prospect with audit data through May 23, and two sets for Danville with audit data through May 4. This comparison identified seven non-Illinois city and state police departments that were able to search EPD’s license plate reader network as of June 4 and also had made at least one 2025 search with “immigration” or “ICE” in the “reason” field that included Mount Prospect, Danville or both: Sterling Heights (Michigan) Police Department: One search to Mount Prospect for “DIAZ immigration” on Jan. 14. Wichita Falls (Texas) Police Department: Two searches to Mount Prospect for “ICE [U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement] HIT” on March 15 and 17. Muskegon County (Michigan) Sheriff’s Office: Eight searches to Mount Prospect for “ice detain” on March 23. Richmond (Virginia) Police Department: 35 searches to Mount Prospect for “ice ero” (Enforcement and Removal Operations) between March 31 and April 9. Coffeyville (Kansas) Police Department: Five searches to Mount Prospect and Danville for “ICE” on April 10. Loveland (Colorado) Police Department: Six searches to Mount Prospect and Danville for “ICE” on April 22 and 24. Michigan State Police: 11 searches to Mount Prospect for “USBP [U.S. Border Patrol] Immigration Investigation” on May 19. Spreadsheet shows some immigration-related requests for license plate data received by the Mount Prospect Police Department from seven agencies outside of Illinois. Evanston also shares its license plate reader network with those agencies. Credit: Chart by Alex Harrison, data from Mount Prospect Police department via MuckRock The “reason” field is self-reported by the searching agencies, and can vary widely in detail and phrasing. The RoundTable only included searches with reasons that began with the word “ICE” or included the word “immigration” in its analysis, and manually verified the resulting data to ensure accuracy. Cases with other terms like “DHS” (U.S. Department of Homeland Security) or “HSI” (Homeland Security Investigations) could be related to immigration enforcement, but cannot be verified as such and were excluded from the RoundTable’s analysis. Further, these matches do not confirm whether EPD actually received or responded to any immigration-related searches from these seven agencies or any others. The RoundTable requested EPD’s network audit records, which would show whether any such searches were made in Evanston’s data, but the city denied that records request on June 4, citing “ongoing investigations.” An appeal with the city is still outstanding at time of publication. ‘It at least warrants review’ In a phone call Sunday evening, EPD Cmdr. Ryan Glew said the department has received correspondence from Flock that “a small number” of non-Illinois agencies “appeared to have used a national lookup to access LPR [license plate reader] data” for immigration-related cases. In a Thursday online post, viewable here as an archive , Flock stated that by May 30 it had revoked Illinois network access to 17 out-of-state agencies based on an internal audit, and later revoked access for another 29 at Giannoulias’ request. As of Sunday night, the post has been edited to state only that 47 agencies have been removed based on the company’s audit. Glew said Flock’s communication said external agencies requesting Illinois license plate reader data have to “check that box” to agree the records won’t be used in immigration or reproductive health cases, and that the company had “removed access to Illinois LPR data” for agencies that violated this agreement. He said he later emailed Flock over the weekend to ask about the seven agencies identified by the RoundTable, but hadn’t heard back as of Sunday night. “It at least warrants review,” Glew said of the seven matching agencies. “I’m not aware of any time our LPR data has been used to make an immigration arrest, charge anybody from out of state with a reproductive health issue — not aware of any.” Zoom in on the map above to view where Evanston’s 18 stationary Flock cameras are located, as indicated by blue camera icons. Click on an icon to read which direction it faces, and to see a photo of the camera taken on June 12, 2025. Created by Alex Harrison using Google My Maps. He said the department feels “very, very strongly of the value of this program” locally, citing the February 2023 hit-and-run of Soapie’s owner Yun Park and an April 2023 fatal shooting as instances where the technology aided investigations. Nevertheless, Glew said EPD is “constantly reviewing our policy” for automated license plate reader data, even before Giannoulias entered the picture last week. “If you’re going to have an ALPR system, you can’t have any reasonable expectation people are not going to want to know how it’s used,” Glew said, “and that they’re not going to be vigilant or hawkish with regards to privacy.” Glew said he will verify at the start of the week whether the seven identified agencies were among those that had their access to EPD’s data revoked. Support the RoundTable! As a financial supporter of the RoundTable, your contribution throughout the year powers our work covering all the vital news that matters in Evanston! Please consider making an additional gift! One-time Monthly Annually One-time $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount $ Monthly $10 $20 $40 Other Donation amount per month $ Annually $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount per year $ Your contribution is tax-deductible. We appreciate your support! Donate Now Support the RoundTable! Your commitment as a MONTHLY SUSTAINING DONOR helps us the most! Recurring contributions – at all levels – enable us to build a viable newsroom that will serve Evanston for the next 25 years! One-time Monthly Annually One-time $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount $ Monthly $10 $20 $40 Other Donation amount per month $ Annually $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount per year $ Your contribution is tax-deductible. We appreciate your support! Donate Now Related Stories Tagged: Automatic license plate readers , Flock Safety , Ryan Glew Alex Harrison Senior Reporter Alex Harrison reports on local government, public safety, housing and homelessness, town-gown relations and more for the RoundTable. He graduated from Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism... More by Alex Harrison Join the Conversation 1 Comment The RoundTable will try to post comments within a few hours, but there may be a longer delay at times. Comments containing mean-spirited, libelous or ad hominem attacks will not be posted. Your full name and email is required. We do not post anonymous comments. Your e-mail will not be posted. We do not publish comments that endorse political candidates, due to our nonprofit status. Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ Ezra Shevick says: June 16th, 2025 at 9:38 AM Thanks again for this extremely important and timely story, Alex. Evanston leadership needs to immediately lock down the license plate data for EPD use only, or modify the welcoming city ordinance to clarify that our movement data is likely to end up in federal hands. I don’t believe there is an in between here. Cmdr Glew’s response here perfectly illustrates the problem. We can only find out who has accessed the data after the fact. Reply Latest News Curt’s Cafe celebrates retirement of board president, launches fund to support cultural outings May 14th, 2026 Evanston’s vacation album: Show your E-town pride, support the RoundTable! May 14th, 2026 Ecology Center to offer Evanston Garden Walk June 28 May 14th, 2026 The final countdown for ETHS graduating seniors May 14th, 2026 District 65 institutes opt-in policy for summer iPad use May 14th, 2026 Trending District 65 Assistant Superintendent Katie Speth to resign Northwestern has no plan for repairs to vacant homes it owns Roycemore alumni analysis: Financial warning signs existed for years A step back in time at Evanston house walk Northlight Theatre's first drama District 202 re-elects board leadership, installs new student member Willard, Chute subject to ‘threatening messages’ Monday; no active threat ETHS student wins National Merit Scholarship A new podcast is changing the conversation about life after high school in Evanston ETHS ends no-credit absence policy, citing inequitable enforcement Facebook Twitter Instagram BlueSky RSS Home Page City News Schools Art & Life Public Square Food and Dining Sports Obituaries Podcasts and video Reparations Evanston History Our mission About us Advisory Committee Board of Directors Donate Diversity, equity and inclusion Get the newsletter Read us on your mobile device Submit a letter to the editor Advertise with us Contact us Evanston RoundTable privacy notice Thank You to our 2025 RoundTable Donors! The Evanston RoundTable is the community’s leading source of news about local government, schools, civic and artistic activities, and other important issues facing our city. We seek to foster civic engagement and empower people to address complex issues facing our diverse community, promoting a better understanding and appreciation of people of all races, ethnicities, and income levels. Evanston Roundtable 1514 Elmwood Avenue Suite 2 Evanston, Illinois 60201 847.864.7741 © 2026 Evanston RoundTable Media NFP Powered by Newspack Evanston RoundTable privacy notice Sign in Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) By signing up, you agree to our Terms and Conditions. Gift this article Close Link Copy link categories tags Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close