Council Bytes: EPD bars out-of-state agencies from plate reader network - Evanston RoundTable Stay in the know with our free newsletters! Join more than 10,000 Evanstonians already receiving the RoundTable newsletter in their inbox each morning. Daily Brief Evanston’s latest news and features Raising Evanston 1X week: everything E-town for families Sign up Already signed up? Just close out this popup. Or submit your email to keep this from displaying again on this device. Close Sign In Search for: Search CITY SCHOOLS ART & LIFE PUBLIC SQUARE RAISING EVANSTON SPORTS ENVIRONMENT FOOD CALENDAR NEWSLETTER DONATE About us Jobs Advertise Mobile app Submit a letter Business Photos Weddings RT Merch Obituaries FAQ Contact us Facebook Twitter Instagram BlueSky RSS Close Skip to content About us Jobs Advertise Mobile app Submit a letter Business Photos Weddings RT Merch Obituaries FAQ Contact us Facebook Twitter Instagram BlueSky RSS Evanston RoundTable Evanston's community newspaper since 1998 Sign In Open Search Search for: Search Donate Menu Sign In CITY SCHOOLS ART & LIFE PUBLIC SQUARE RAISING EVANSTON SPORTS ENVIRONMENT FOOD CALENDAR NEWSLETTER DONATE Posted in City News Council Bytes: EPD bars out-of-state agencies from plate reader network Chief and sergeant argued for system’s value as “investigative tool,” but mayor and some councilmembers are hesitant to continue using plate cameras by Alex Harrison and Emma Richman June 24th, 2025 July 13th, 2025 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Nextdoor (Opens in new window) Nextdoor Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Print (Opens in new window) Print An automated license plate reader (on black pole) in Evanston just north of Howard Street, where the city borders Chicago. The camera looks south along Ridge Avenue. Credit: Alex Harrison Sign up for our free newsletters ! Daily Brief Evanston’s latest news and features Raising Evanston 1X week: everything E-town for families Sign up The Evanston Police Department has revoked access to its network of automated license plate readers (ALPRs) from all law enforcement outside of Illinois and is requiring extra authorization to grant new access to other in-state agencies, Chief Schenita Stewart told the City Council on Monday. These restrictions follow RoundTable reporting last week that found the department’s network, comprised of 18 stationary cameras and a mobile “flex” camera from private vendor Flock Safety , had been shared with at least seven non-Illinois agencies that searched camera data in nearby Mount Prospect, Illinois for cases explicitly related to U.S. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement, or ICE, activity. After national tech outlet 404 Media reported on these searches , and another search in Texas for a woman who had an abortion , Illinois Secretary of State Alexi Giannoulias ordered a statewide audit of ALPR systems to ensure that police departments comply with a 2023 state law specifically prohibiting the sharing of camera data with out-of-state agencies investigating people for seeking reproductive health care or because of their immigration status. The Evanston City Council also beefed up its own Welcoming City Ordinance in January to add similar protections against sharing data with other parties for use in immigration enforcement cases. previous coverage FOIA records reveal Evanston data accessible to out-of-state police making ICE searches by Alex Harrison June 16th, 2025 August 28th, 2025 Statewide audit ordered for license plate readers used in Evanston by Alex Harrison June 13th, 2025 June 13th, 2025 During City Manager Luke Stowe’s public announcements at Monday’s council meeting, Chief Stewart told councilmembers that EPD “has never used ALPR data” in violation of these state and local laws, and said Flock told her directly that Evanston’s camera data “has not been misused” by external agencies. In order to “further safeguard public trust,” however, she said the department has made several changes to restrict external access, including: Disabling the opt-in “National Lookup” tool, which automatically enables two-way searchability with other agencies around the U.S. that are also opted in. Disabling all other out-of-state sharing, cutting off any non-Illinois agencies that had access outside of the National Lookup tool. Disabling “proximity sharing” with other Illinois agencies, meaning that explicit, agency-specific approval is required to access Evanston’s data. Adding a dual authorization requirement, in which Illinois agencies seeking new access to Evanston’s data must have written approval from both Stewart and Stowe. She added that the department would support developing a new, more specific city ordinance “to ensure ALPR use aligns with Evanston’s values.” “Flock is an investigative tool. It helps us address violent crime, especially shootings involving vehicles, by providing real time, actionable data,” Stewart said. “We are committed to smart, data-informed deployment that respects civil liberties and protects our neighborhoods.” Zoom in on the map above to view where Evanston’s 18 stationary Flock cameras are located, as indicated by blue camera icons. Click on an icon to read which direction it faces, and to see a photo of the camera taken on June 12, 2025. Created by Alex Harrison using Google My Maps. Joining Stewart was Sgt. Tom Giese, who oversees the operation of EPD’s Flock system. Giese said since the first cameras went up in December 2022, they’ve been used for investigations into “property crimes, hit-and-runs and violent crimes” that collectively led to more than 60 arrests. Among numerous examples he listed, he said the ALPRs assisted in investigating the April 2023 fatal shooting of Jacquis Irby and an April 2024 sexual assault case , and also helped “safely locate three missing and endangered persons in their vehicles” just in the last two months. Giese said EPD is “willing to sit back and wait” while Flock works with Giannoulias and Illinois Attorney General Kwame Raoul to improve out-of-state compliance, though he added that the access changes listed by Stewart conflict with “some of our day-to-day operations and investigative strategies.” “As a department, we would rather have these conversations in this setting [at City Council] about Flock concerns,” Giese said, “rather than have the conversations with victims and their families of why we were not able to solve a crime due to the absence of Flock.” Mayor: Flock not ‘a trusted entity’ After Stewart and Giese finished their remarks, most elected officials who spoke and asked questions were still wary of the department’s continued use of Flock’s ALPRs — none more vocally than Mayor Daniel Biss, who at one point said the information shared “is not giving me the comfort I need” around the system. “That’s not a shot at you [Sgt. Giese], it’s not a shot at the chief, it’s not a shot at our department,” Biss said. “We didn’t do anything wrong; that’s my concern, actually. … I’m not going to rely on Flock to be a trusted entity.” When Biss asked why EPD had opted into the national lookup tool, Giese responded that the program has been “very valuable” in locating offenders who flee the state to areas that the city doesn’t “have a sharing agreement with” on a direct basis. That means “we’re focusing just on the state now,” Giese said. Chief Stewart later noted that “it will take a long time [and] a lot will have to be done” before she considers turning the tool back on. Evanston Police Chief Schenita Stewart (at podium) and Sgt. Tom Giese answer questions from City Council on Monday about the department’s network of automated license plate readers provided by private vendor Flock Safety. Credit: Bob Seidenberg However, when Giese described immigration-related searches identified by Flock that ran afoul of state and local law as only representing “a very small amount of misuse” compared to the overall volume of Flock searches, Mayor Biss said that argument “move[s] me further away from you dramatically.” “If our attitude is like, ‘Eh, we’ll just let a few instances slip by where we’re helping ICE whisk people off the street,’ I’m done,” Biss said. “I don’t think that’s been our attitude, because that’s already disabled,” Stewart responded, referring to the national lookup tool. “And that would be your opinion, but I don’t think we’ve shown you, as an agency, that’s our attitude. We disabled it.” Biss asked what it would take to reach a “threshold” where the police department would be on board with terminating the city’s contract with Flock entirely, but in response to a later question from Councilmember Bobby Burns (5th Ward), city attorney Alex Ruggie said she doesn’t believe Flock has actually “violated any terms” of the agreement. City Council approved a five-year contract with the company in January 2024 for $48,500 per year, or $242,500 total through 2028. Harris: ‘Some circumstances’ where national search is appropriate Some councilmembers echoed the mayor’s concerns, including Parielle Davis (7th Ward), who said the city should be “frank” about the access risks that come from having ALPR data “at all,” and Juan Geracaris (9th), who was surprised local police could be “playing telephone” with ALPR data and unknowingly use it to assist ICE without the federal agency having direct access. The only councilmember who spoke in clear support of retaining Flock was Krissie Harris (2nd Ward), who answered the mayor’s earlier question about why EPD would use the national lookup tool. “If somebody in my family was kidnapped and moved across state lines,” Harris said, “I expect you to go find my family, and my friends, and my residents. I expect you to go find them wherever the hell they are.” Harris acknowledged that President Donald Trump’s aggressive efforts to detain and deport immigrants puts the city in “a precarious position” with the data it holds, but she made clear that she believes there are “some circumstances when I expect us to turn on that national camera [search].” She also said she was “uncomfortable” with the tone of the preceding discussion toward the police department, describing it as “coming at you all for something a company that we’ve hired did.” The RoundTable requested EPD’s network audit records, which would show whether anyone has actually made immigration-related searches in Evanston’s ALPR data, but the city denied that records request on June 4, citing “ongoing investigations.” An appeal with the city is still outstanding at time of publication. Here’s a recap of other notable items from Monday’s meeting: Health data protections passed Parallel to the Flock discussion, councilmembers gave final approval to a new Health Data Protection Ordinance as part of the meeting’s consent agenda. The law is modeled after the Welcoming City revisions adopted in January, and aims to prevent the city from sharing data — health-related or otherwise — with jurisdictions or third parties seeking to enforce laws against reproductive or gender-affirming care. Prior to Monday’s meetings, Biss and Councilmembers Geracaris and Jonathan Nieuwsma (4th Ward), each of whom sponsored the ordinance’s referral earlier this year, held a brief press conference. Beyond addressing the issues with Flock discussed later in the evening, the group also stressed the law’s importance in light of the U.S. Supreme Court’s recent decision in United States v. Skrmetti , which upheld a Tennessee law banning gender-affirming care for transgender youth. Mayor Daniel Biss, center, flanked by Councilmembers Juan Geracaris (left) and Jonathan Nieuwsma. Credit: Richard Cahan Evanston has an elevated risk of other states attempting to enforce their own laws against people for local activity here, Nieuwsma argued, because of Northwestern University and its population of out-of-state students from around the country and world. “One of the things that’s going to be on my mind as a parent is, where do I want to send my daughter to college if she can’t get the health care that she might need as a college student?” Niewusma said. “There are real, foreseeable impacts of laws passed in other states trying to be enforced here in Illinois that are just not something I’m comfortable with.” Updates to Strategic Housing Plan During Stowe’s announcements, Senior Housing Planner Uri Pachter provided an update on the city’s forthcoming strategic housing plan , known as Evanston Housing4All. The plan, which city staff resumed working on in June, will set the city’s housing goals for the next decade by identifying specific needs, priorities and actions to take. The city’s Community Development Department publicly launched the plan in June 2024, after councilmembers included its adoption as one of the previous term’s City Council Goals in December 2023. Work was paused in October 2024, however, while more focus went into drafting a new comprehensive plan and zoning code as part of Envision Evanston 2045 . previous coverage Housing panel brainstorms updates to affordability ordinance, goals for long-range plan by Alex Harrison June 19th, 2024 June 20th, 2024 In preparation for the relaunch, Pachter said the city hired two Chicago-based firms to assist staff: Resolve Community Development to help with drafting the plan, and Development Planning Partners to conduct a “housing gap analysis,” or a quantitative study of Evanston’s housing supply and demand focused on finding specific gaps in the community. Pachter added that a refresher on the plan will be presented to the Housing and Community Development Committee on July 15, and a full draft plan is expected to be released in September. After community and committee feedback, a final plan will be presented to City Council in December for adoption. Zero-based budget for Public Works The city’s Public Works Agency will be the first to try a zero-based budgeting model, which seeks to reduce spending by writing the budget from scratch instead of simply adjusting numbers from the previous year’s expenses. Councilmembers voted 7-1 to approve hiring Raftelis Financial Consultants for $99,030 to conduct an evaluation; Councilmember Clare Kelly (1st Ward) voted no, and Tom Suffredin (6th Ward) was absent from the meeting. The city’s the Finance and Budget Committee chose Public Works for this pilot in April, but on Monday, Kelly argued the contract award should be sent back to the committee for further review instead of going straight to council for final approval. Her motion to do this failed on a 2-6 vote, with she and Matt Rodgers (8th Ward) voting yes. More details can be read in this RoundTable story . Other Council Bits As part of the meeting’s consent agenda, City Council gave unanimous initial approval to a minor adjustment of The Legacy Evanston project , the planned development slated to rise at 1621-1631 Chicago Ave. The adjustment will allow developer Horizon Realty Group to reduce the new apartment building’s height from 12 stories to 11 by consolidating parking from two floors to one, slightly reduce the overall number of parking spaces, remove the basement-level commercial space and adjust the unit mix to reduce studios and add more one-bedroom and three-bedroom units. Also on the consent agenda, councilmembers unanimously approved a performance series by Midnight Circus in the Parks in Tallmadge Park the weekend of Sept. 19-21. The event will be a collaboration between the Chicago-based troupe , the city and The Actors Gymnasium, with four public performances held under Midnight Circus’s Big Top Tent for audiences of up to about 650 people. Councilmembers will return to the chambers Tuesday night at 7 p.m. for a special meeting solely focused on the draft comprehensive plan created through Envision Evanston 2045, which the city’s Land Use Commission voted 7-1 to recommend for adoption last month. The plan is on the agenda for discussion only, meaning no final adoption vote can be taken. That vote will be on the agenda of another special meeting scheduled for Monday, July 21, but a third meeting could be called in August if councilmembers decide more time is needed. Council Bytes from the previous meeting on June 9 can be read here . Support the RoundTable! As a financial supporter of the RoundTable, your contribution throughout the year powers our work covering all the vital news that matters in Evanston! Please consider making an additional gift! One-time Monthly Annually One-time $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount $ Monthly $10 $20 $40 Other Donation amount per month $ Annually $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount per year $ Your contribution is tax-deductible. We appreciate your support! Donate Now Support the RoundTable! Your commitment as a MONTHLY SUSTAINING DONOR helps us the most! Recurring contributions – at all levels – enable us to build a viable newsroom that will serve Evanston for the next 25 years! One-time Monthly Annually One-time $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount $ Monthly $10 $20 $40 Other Donation amount per month $ Annually $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount per year $ Your contribution is tax-deductible. We appreciate your support! Donate Now Related Stories Tagged: Automatic license plate readers , Daniel Biss , Evanston City Council , Evanston Police Department , Flock Safety , Krissie Harris , Schenita Stewart Alex Harrison Senior Reporter Alex Harrison reports on local government, public safety, housing and homelessness, town-gown relations and more for the RoundTable. He graduated from Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism... More by Alex Harrison Emma Richman Emma Richman is a summer reporting intern covering local news. She is a rising junior at Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism majoring in Journalism and International Studies. She has... More by Emma Richman Join the Conversation 2 Comments The RoundTable will try to post comments within a few hours, but there may be a longer delay at times. Comments containing mean-spirited, libelous or ad hominem attacks will not be posted. Your full name and email is required. We do not post anonymous comments. Your e-mail will not be posted. We do not publish comments that endorse political candidates, due to our nonprofit status. Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ Rufus Laggren says: June 24th, 2025 at 8:05 AM > ICE access to Evanston FLOCK data My understanding is that any private company can be compelled to turn over data under subpoena, regardless of any agreements or contracts they may have w/others. And more, the business can also be compelled NOT to notify or comment on whether they have done this. So while shutting off automatic publication of licence data may be a good first step, it seems possible that any entity w/access to subpoena power can get the data. It may, or may not, matter who owns the data – possesion is 9/10 of ownership and FLOCK posseses the data. Another aspect would be the working relationships EPD maintains w/other entities. These relationships are probably central to their ability to efficient pursue investigations and apprehend suspects and proactively find discover wanted suspects fr out of town. Local ordinances of this type don’t help inter agency cooprration in general. Knowing how significant the issues abv really are requires specialized legal knowledge and inside info on how local as well as out of state and fed police power operates. But I would think we should at least ask a few Qs about consequences, detailed contract specifications and get ducks lined up. If the FLOCK contract is anything like the EULAs we see for software and websites, it’s indecipherable. Reply Frank Erdmann says: June 24th, 2025 at 12:21 PM Good points. One work around is to destroy information after a set short time period. It would set up a legal state vs. State fight in a state requested plate reader info over a legal abortion in Illinois by a state where such service is illegal. Reply Latest News District 65 Assistant Superintendent Katie Speth to resign May 13th, 2026 Evanston continues to be recognized as a Tree City USA community May 13th, 2026 City awarded $100,000 grant to support safe and sustainable youth transportation May 13th, 2026 101 clubs and one super chill mom May 13th, 2026 Your kid’s personal book sommelier is at the library May 13th, 2026 Trending Northwestern has no plan for repairs to vacant homes it owns District 65 Assistant Superintendent Katie Speth to resign A step back in time at Evanston house walk Roycemore alumni analysis: Financial warning signs existed for years Willard, Chute subject to ‘threatening messages’ Monday; no active threat Northlight Theatre's first drama District 202 re-elects board leadership, installs new student member ETHS student wins National Merit Scholarship ETHS ends no-credit absence policy, citing inequitable enforcement James Park improvements approved by City Council Facebook Twitter Instagram BlueSky RSS Home Page City News Schools Art & Life Public Square Food and Dining Sports Obituaries Podcasts and video Reparations Evanston History Our mission About us Advisory Committee Board of Directors Donate Diversity, equity and inclusion Get the newsletter Read us on your mobile device Submit a letter to the editor Advertise with us Contact us Thank You to our 2025 RoundTable Donors! Evanston RoundTable privacy notice The Evanston RoundTable is the community’s leading source of news about local government, schools, civic and artistic activities, and other important issues facing our city. We seek to foster civic engagement and empower people to address complex issues facing our diverse community, promoting a better understanding and appreciation of people of all races, ethnicities, and income levels. Evanston Roundtable 1514 Elmwood Avenue Suite 2 Evanston, Illinois 60201 847.864.7741 © 2026 Evanston RoundTable Media NFP Powered by Newspack Evanston RoundTable privacy notice Sign in Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) By signing up, you agree to our Terms and Conditions. Gift this article Close Link Copy link categories tags Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close