City covers Flock cameras while waiting for removal - Evanston RoundTable Stay in the know with our free newsletters! Join more than 10,000 Evanstonians already receiving the RoundTable newsletter in their inbox each morning. Daily Brief Evanston’s latest news and features Raising Evanston 1X week: everything E-town for families Sign up Already signed up? Just close out this popup. Or submit your email to keep this from displaying again on this device. Close Sign In Search for: Search CITY SCHOOLS ART & LIFE PUBLIC SQUARE RAISING EVANSTON SPORTS ENVIRONMENT FOOD CALENDAR NEWSLETTER DONATE About us Jobs Advertise Mobile app Submit a letter Business Photos Weddings RT Merch Obituaries FAQ Contact us Facebook Instagram Twitter BlueSky RSS Close Skip to content About us Jobs Advertise Mobile app Submit a letter Business Photos Weddings RT Merch Obituaries FAQ Contact us Facebook Instagram Twitter BlueSky RSS Evanston RoundTable Evanston's community newspaper since 1998 Sign In Open Search Search for: Search Donate Menu Sign In CITY SCHOOLS ART & LIFE PUBLIC SQUARE RAISING EVANSTON SPORTS ENVIRONMENT FOOD CALENDAR NEWSLETTER DONATE Posted in City News City covers Flock cameras while waiting for removal by Alex Harrison September 25th, 2025 September 26th, 2025 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Nextdoor (Opens in new window) Nextdoor Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Print (Opens in new window) Print Sign up for our free newsletters ! Daily Brief Evanston’s latest news and features Raising Evanston 1X week: everything E-town for families Sign up A Flock camera on the south side of Emerson Street, east of McCormick Boulevard, is seen on Sept. 24 covered up by black plastic secured with tape to the camera’s mounting pole. Credit: Joerg Metzner The City of Evanston isn’t waiting for Flock Safety to remove the automated license plate readers the company reinstalled without permission, and has covered the cameras to block them from potentially logging vehicles that drive by. The RoundTable observed a camera on Emerson Street covered by black plastic secured with tape to the mounting pole on Wednesday, and city spokesperson Cynthia Vargas confirmed Thursday afternoon that it was the city’s doing. “Flock has committed to removing the cameras promptly,” Vargas wrote, “but in the meantime, City staff have placed covers over them.” A Flock spokesperson provided a written statement Thursday asserting that “the cameras are not active and will be uninstalled.” “We continue to be optimistic that we will have the opportunity to have a constructive dialogue to address the City’s concerns and resume our successful partnership making Evanston safer,” the statement reads. The statement did not answer the RoundTable’s question asking when the cameras would be removed, nor questions sent Tuesday concerning why the cameras were reinstalled and irregularities in its transparency portal data for Evanston. The city previously ordered Flock to shut down 19 cameras (18 stationary and one flex camera that can be attached to a squad car) provided by the company and put its contract with Flock on a 30-day termination notice on Aug. 26. The company took down 15 of the 18 stationary cameras by Sept. 8, only to reinstall all of them by Tuesday. This was apparently without authorization from city officials, who sent Flock a cease-and-desist order to take them back down. previous coverage City sends cease-and-desist after Flock reinstalls license plate cameras by Alex Harrison September 24th, 2025 September 30th, 2025 The city’s shutdown decision came after Illinois Secretary of State Alexi Giannoulias announced his office discovered Flock had allowed U.S. Customs and Border Protection to access Illinois cameras in a “pilot program” against state law, and after the RoundTable reported in June that out-of-state law enforcement agencies were able to search Flock’s data for assistance in immigration cases. Flock’s statement Thursday goes on to say the company is “unaware of any ongoing investigation” of its actions. “We disagree, respectfully, with any assertions that we have broken the law,” the statement reads. “We have been in routine, collaborative contact with the office of the IL SOS for several weeks and are continuing to work with them on officer education and compliance.” Support the RoundTable! As a financial supporter of the RoundTable, your contribution throughout the year powers our work covering all the vital news that matters in Evanston! Please consider making an additional gift! One-time Monthly Annually One-time $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount $ Monthly $10 $20 $40 Other Donation amount per month $ Annually $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount per year $ Your contribution is tax-deductible. We appreciate your support! Donate Now Support the RoundTable! Your commitment as a MONTHLY SUSTAINING DONOR helps us the most! Recurring contributions – at all levels – enable us to build a viable newsroom that will serve Evanston for the next 25 years! One-time Monthly Annually One-time $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount $ Monthly $10 $20 $40 Other Donation amount per month $ Annually $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount per year $ Your contribution is tax-deductible. We appreciate your support! Donate Now Related Stories Tagged: Evanston Police Department , Flock Safety , immigration and customs enforcement Alex Harrison Senior Reporter Alex Harrison reports on local government, public safety, housing and homelessness, town-gown relations and more for the RoundTable. He graduated from Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism... More by Alex Harrison Join the Conversation 12 Comments The RoundTable will try to post comments within a few hours, but there may be a longer delay at times. Comments containing mean-spirited, libelous or ad hominem attacks will not be posted. Your full name and email is required. We do not post anonymous comments. Your e-mail will not be posted. We do not publish comments that endorse political candidates, due to our nonprofit status. Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ Eric Griffin says: September 27th, 2025 at 11:58 AM The flock cameras are one Aof the scariest things to emerge in our big brother filled lives..these things put power into the hands of anyone that can view and control them.they can use them to spot community leaders or any voices who organize or protest,shutting them down the second they leave their homes Reply William Glaser says: September 27th, 2025 at 8:38 AM Honestly off Flock needs to do is go to any number of the buildings or homes in the area in which they want to play place camera and pay them monthly and their cameras will be back up. There are also a large number of delivery service, company cars, taxi and or other things they could attach there mobile camera too. Reply Todd Knapek says: September 26th, 2025 at 1:50 PM Love how the city is cool with spying on its own citizens, but not cool doing the same to illegal immigrants. Make it make sense, please. Reply Josh Beckman says: September 26th, 2025 at 1:01 PM This is fun to read. I love the low-tech solution to the high-tech problem. Reply Dan Parker says: September 26th, 2025 at 10:57 AM Great article, but the headline needs a hand. When I saw the subject in my email inbox, it sounded like the city was attempting to hide (“cover up”) what Flock has done! Reply Daniel J. Hyman, Ph.D. says: September 26th, 2025 at 10:27 AM Bear in mind that garbage bags are made of polyethylene and made to appear black by adding carbon. Neither of these block longwave thermal infrared camera wavelengths. Putting bags over the cameras helps with waterproofing but probably has very little impact on their ability to function. STAY IN SCHOOL, KIDS! Reply Albert Wylie says: September 26th, 2025 at 8:27 PM You reading a license plate or using facial recognition software with thermal imaging? You get that PHD during covid with take home tests? Reply Richard Masi says: October 2nd, 2025 at 5:52 AM Albert, I don’t know if the cameras are it, or CCD technology and likely bags and tape will block most of the functionality but I agree I’d have wrapped the solar panel and camera in foil because the devices (if I was the designer) would also be using Google’s triangulation of ssid technology to track whereabouts by reading the wireless rf spectrum as well. Reply Rufus Laggren says: September 26th, 2025 at 8:04 AM Good move. Makes sense to me. Can wait forever on promises. Reply John Treacy says: September 25th, 2025 at 7:48 PM Removal of cameras: city politicians take conscious deliberate attempts to make life easier for criminals who would harm residents of and visitors to Evanston. Pathetic. Reply Terry Overbey says: September 28th, 2025 at 10:17 AM Exactly. These cameras are a safety device. And how much is Evanston going to have to pay in damages for breaching its contract? Reply Elijah Bailey says: February 26th, 2026 at 3:17 PM They are making a conscious, deliberate attempt to preserve the rights of their citizens. You can thank the founding fathers of this country for that when they created the Fourth Amendment, and then lawmakers in 1974 for passing the Privacy Act. Numerous studies not funded by Flock surveillance have shown that mass surveillance, and Flock surveillance in particular, does not curtail criminal activity. Often it ends up being the opposite…correlation does not equate to causation in this situation, it simply highlights the deceitful tactics of a profit by any means corporation that preys on fear mongering and provides the illusion of safety. What mass surveillance does accomplish on a reliable basis is to enable illegal activities to occur daily by violating rights of innocent citizens and compiling databases on the general populace in defiance of the 1974 Privacy Act. If you are concerned about safety, be concerned that this network is laughably vulnerable to bad actors who need only the technical expertise of a 10 year old to access cameras across the country, at parks and schools, residential neighborhoods, hiking trails…it’s like Netflix for predators. Be concerned that footage from these cameras is admissible evidence in court based on precedent; footage that is curated and edited by experimental and inaccurate AI software on a vulnerable network and database. Be concerned that in the time it takes you to eat breakfast, a criminal could commit murder in view of a Flock camera, download the images and video from that camera, use AI to replace their likeness with yours, and then replace those files on the camera without leaving a physical or digital fingerprint indicating that it was tampered with. Mind you, this is not something only brilliant hackers can do, this is all possible with nothing more than the skills needed to navigate the internet, a PC, and the ability to use chatGPT on a basic level. You and anyone else reading this could likely do the same with a brief tutorial, information is currently available and readily accessed, just like Flock’s “secure” network. Unless you have an absolutely bulletproof alibi with your own supporting evidence to counter the altered footage, you would have no recourse. Most people at any given time don’t have bulletproof alibis like that, especially if they were at home asleep when it occurred. You would be convicted of murder, while the murderer would be free to continue without any suspicion. Thank goodness those surveillance cameras are keeping you safe. If you are legitimately concerned about criminals, I would suggest looking at Flock and its customers directly, rather than who Flock and its customers are spying on. Reply Latest News Roycemore to implement live fundraising dashboard, more consistent updates, board says May 12th, 2026 Timeline of recent communications from the Roycemore School Board of Trustees May 12th, 2026 Your Tuesday newsletter May 12th, 2026 City Council passes housing plan after marathon amendment debate May 12th, 2026 ETHS ends no-credit absence policy, citing inequitable enforcement May 12th, 2026 Trending City will implement parking minimum ban without changes Capturing the moment: Families gather for prom send-off photos Evanston, North Shore communities plan major bike lane expansions, but completion is years away ETHS ends no-credit absence policy, citing inequitable enforcement City Council passes housing plan after marathon amendment debate More changes at Roycemore School announced Saturday Housing plan returns to City Council with long list of proposed changes Developers break ground on 33-unit affordable housing project Here in Evanston: Hard questions Second Evanston man charged with attempted murder in April's Mason Park shooting Facebook Instagram Twitter BlueSky RSS Home Page City News Schools Art & Life Public Square Food and Dining Sports Obituaries Podcasts and video Reparations Evanston History Our mission About us Advisory Committee Board of Directors Donate Diversity, equity and inclusion Get the newsletter Read us on your mobile device Submit a letter to the editor Advertise with us Contact us Evanston RoundTable privacy notice Thank You to our 2025 RoundTable Donors! The Evanston RoundTable is the community’s leading source of news about local government, schools, civic and artistic activities, and other important issues facing our city. We seek to foster civic engagement and empower people to address complex issues facing our diverse community, promoting a better understanding and appreciation of people of all races, ethnicities, and income levels. Evanston Roundtable 1514 Elmwood Avenue Suite 2 Evanston, Illinois 60201 847.864.7741 © 2026 Evanston RoundTable Media NFP Powered by Newspack Evanston RoundTable privacy notice Sign in Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) By signing up, you agree to our Terms and Conditions. Gift this article Close Link Copy link categories tags Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close