On the issues: Where the 9th Congressional District front-runners align and diverge - Evanston RoundTable Stay in the know with our free newsletters! Join more than 10,000 Evanstonians already receiving the RoundTable newsletter in their inbox each morning. Daily Brief Evanston’s latest news and features Raising Evanston 1X week: everything E-town for families Sign up Already signed up? Just close out this popup. Or submit your email to keep this from displaying again on this device. Close Sign In Search for: Search CITY SCHOOLS ART & LIFE PUBLIC SQUARE RAISING EVANSTON SPORTS ENVIRONMENT FOOD CALENDAR NEWSLETTER DONATE About us Jobs Advertise Mobile app Submit a letter Business Photos Weddings RT Merch Obituaries FAQ Contact us Facebook Instagram Twitter BlueSky RSS Close Skip to content About us Jobs Advertise Mobile app Submit a letter Business Photos Weddings RT Merch Obituaries FAQ Contact us Facebook Instagram Twitter BlueSky RSS Evanston RoundTable Evanston's community newspaper since 1998 Sign In Open Search Search for: Search Donate Menu Sign In CITY SCHOOLS ART & LIFE PUBLIC SQUARE RAISING EVANSTON SPORTS ENVIRONMENT FOOD CALENDAR NEWSLETTER DONATE Posted in Politics On the issues: Where the 9th Congressional District front-runners align and diverge Reviewing stances on democratic reform, affordability, and Homeland Security by Alex Harrison February 27th, 2026 March 1st, 2026 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Nextdoor (Opens in new window) Nextdoor Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Print (Opens in new window) Print Sign up for our free newsletters ! Daily Brief Evanston’s latest news and features Raising Evanston 1X week: everything E-town for families Sign up The front-runners in the Democratic primary for Illinois’ 9th Congressional District have campaigned and contrasted themselves along numerous lines, from past experience and intended approaches, to campaign finance and endorsement seeking. Meanwhile, policies and platform differences have largely fallen by the wayside, as even the candidates themselves have acknowledged they share similarly progressive platforms on many issues. To help voters better understand their options, here’s the RoundTable’s review of the overlap and differences between Evanston Mayor Daniel Biss, Internet content creator Kat Abughazaleh and state Sen. Laura Fine (9th District) on some of the major issues of the primary campaign. The candidates’ positions are drawn from a variety of sources, including statements made in forums and debates, their campaign websites and their answers to the RoundTable’s candidate questionnaire. On democratic reforms With “threats to democracy” holding a commanding lead as voters’ top issue in the RoundTable’s recent poll of the 9th District , all three candidates have taken strong stances on passing democratic reforms and rebalancing power away from the executive branch and back to Congress. Democratic candidates in the 9th Congressional District race hold up “Yes” signs during the Pink Poster Club forum on Feb. 19. Credit: Richard Cahan The trio signaled they would each support impeaching President Donald Trump and members of his cabinet at a recent Pink Poster Club forum and in Wednesday’s FOX 32 debate . Additionally, at the Pink Poster Club forum all three signaled support for reforming the Supreme Court of the United States, including expanding the court and adding term limits for justices. All three have also stated they support passing legislation to overturn the court’s 2010 Citizens United ruling , which allows unlimited fundraising and spending by “independent expenditure” groups, better known as super PACs. However, they aren’t fully walking that talk during the campaign, as all three have a so-called “red box” page on their website with discreet messaging instructions for any outside spenders, and Fine and Biss have respectively benefited from millions and hundreds of thousands of dollars in supportive ad spending from super PACs. previous coverage Red boxes and mailers show outside spending has entered congressional race by Alex Harrison January 23rd, 2026 January 23rd, 2026 Biss and Fine taking opposite approaches to TV ads in February by Alex Harrison February 15th, 2026 February 16th, 2026 One area with divergence appears to be congressional ethics around stock trading: Biss and Abughazaleh both committed to a pledge from the “Political Integrity Project” that includes not holding individual stocks and supporting a ban on stock trading by members of Congress, while Fine apparently has not. Fine holds multiple individual stocks according to her personal disclosure form , including shares in Eli Lilly, Live Nation, Microsoft and Nvidia. On affordability and cost of living All three front-runners have made addressing rising costs a core plank of their campaigns, and broadly agree on basic actions like reversing tariffs imposed by President Trump, raising the federal minimum wage and adopting a Medicare for All system of health care. Though none of them appear to disagree with each other on other specific actions, each has taken a different focus with their affordability agenda that is informative for their priorities. Biss has focused his messaging on enforcing antitrust laws to break up large corporations, and on building labor power through legislation like the Protecting the Right to Organize (PRO) Act. “We have presidents and executive branch institutions that just look the other way and allow mergers in ways that screw over workers, screw over consumers, screw over the environment,” Biss said at the Pink Poster Club forum. “It’s time to start with antitrust enforcement that comes from Congress.” previous coverage Call-outs over cash take over Pink Poster Club congressional forum by Alex Harrison February 20th, 2026 February 26th, 2026 Fine, meanwhile, has often directed affordability questions to her centerpiece issue of health care reform, which she has worked on extensively as a state legislator, including extending Affordable Care Act subsidies and moving towards a Medicare for All system. Beyond that, she also wrote in her answers the RoundTable’s questionnaire that she supports “a range of policies that directly tackle rising costs,” namely existing assistance programs in areas like homelessness prevention, energy efficiency, student loan forgiveness and SNAP food benefits. Finally, Abughazaleh’s affordability platform centers creating a “cost-of-living exemption” which would exempt a federally-calculated amount needed to pay for basic necessities from federal taxes, as well as “taxing billionaires out of existence.” She also advocates for a “federal Marshall plan” that reinvests federal funds into “every aspect of the human experience,” as she described at the Pink Poster Club forum, drawing inspiration from the post-World War II European economic recovery program. On immigration, ICE and Homeland Security All three candidates support abolishing U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), and support larger immigration reforms that create clearer paths to citizenship and protects vulnerable groups like DREAMers, asylum seekers and undocumented immigrants. Like many area Democrats, they are also campaigning heavily on the imagery of “standing up” and “fighting back” against federal agents deployed in Chicagoland and elsewhere around the country — Abughazaleh and Biss attracted attention last fall for their appearances at protests outside the ICE holding facility in Broadview, which the former is still facing federal charges for . Fine has focused on touting her current work in the state legislature, such as introducing a bill banning ICE agents hired during the current Trump term from working as Illinois police officers, which at time of writing is still waiting for committee assignment. Though she hasn’t attended protests in Broadview, her state senate office has held multiple Know Your Rights training sessions since Trump took office last year. Outside of Broadview, Biss also drew national attention for confronting U.S. Border Patrol Cmdr. Gregory Bovino when he and a group of agents appeared in Evanston last December. The mayor has pushed for specific changes at the city level, like bolstering the Welcoming City Ordinance and ending the police department’s contract with Flock Safety, and is specifically calling to ban mass raids and make protect certain spaces like schools, churches and health care facilities “off limits to enforcement.” Abughazaleh is taking the hardest institutional line out of the three, going beyond ICE and calling to disband the entire U.S. Department of Homeland Security. “My goal is a return of the security services currently under DHS (Coast Guard, CBP, USCIS, etc…) to their original departments,” she wrote in her answer to the RoundTable’s questionnaire, “while preserving the resilience, emergency preparedness, and recovery components in a new Department of Emergency Management.” Support the RoundTable! As a financial supporter of the RoundTable, your contribution throughout the year powers our work covering all the vital news that matters in Evanston! Please consider making an additional gift! One-time Monthly Annually One-time $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount $ Monthly $10 $20 $40 Other Donation amount per month $ Annually $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount per year $ Your contribution is tax-deductible. We appreciate your support! Donate Now Support the RoundTable! Your commitment as a MONTHLY SUSTAINING DONOR helps us the most! Recurring contributions – at all levels – enable us to build a viable newsroom that will serve Evanston for the next 25 years! One-time Monthly Annually One-time $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount $ Monthly $10 $20 $40 Other Donation amount per month $ Annually $120 $240 $480 Other Donation amount per year $ Your contribution is tax-deductible. We appreciate your support! Donate Now Related Stories Tagged: 2026 elections , Daniel Biss , Illinois 9th Congressional District , Kat Abughazaleh , Laura Fine Alex Harrison Senior Reporter Alex Harrison reports on local government, public safety, housing and homelessness, town-gown relations and more for the RoundTable. He graduated from Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism... More by Alex Harrison Join the Conversation 3 Comments The RoundTable will try to post comments within a few hours, but there may be a longer delay at times. Comments containing mean-spirited, libelous or ad hominem attacks will not be posted. Your full name and email is required. We do not post anonymous comments. Your e-mail will not be posted. We do not publish comments that endorse political candidates, due to our nonprofit status. Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ Jay Baglia says: February 28th, 2026 at 10:34 AM While this article was written prior to the coordinated bombing of Iran this morning between the United States and Israel, the position of these candidates about the Middle East is a significant point of division that is not meaningfully pursued. Kat Abughazaleh (among the 3) is unequivocal in her position. What’s happened in Gaza is clearly a genocide and the United States should not continue to provide Israel with weapons given the outcomes. This is a difference that makes a difference to me. Finally, while Kat is a content creator, she is also a journalist and a very good one at that. Reply Jean SmilingCoyote says: February 27th, 2026 at 11:07 PM A problem for many voters is the issues that the candidates don’t discuss. Issues that moderators at forums refuse to ask them. Issues that candidates refuse to discuss with individual voters when the opportunity becomes feasible. Issues that we might as well call “orphan issues” (in analogy to “orphan diseases”) because the powers that be – from powerful pols, to candidates, all the way down to moderators of public candidate forums – don’t think they affect enough voters. News flash from Ecology: everything is connected to everything else, even in politics. Reply Nick Agnew says: February 27th, 2026 at 6:43 PM This article of the Democratic frontrunners in Illinois’ 9th Congressional District paints a picture of broad policy alignment among Daniel Biss, Kat Abughazaleh, and Laura Fine. If the platforms are nearly indistinguishable, then voters deserve a more candid conversation about character, roots, qualifications, and who is truly grounded in — and accountable to — this district. Mayor Biss’s trajectory increasingly reflects political opportunism over local stewardship. After serving in Springfield and running statewide, he landed in Evanston and quickly leveraged that office as a launching pad for Congress. Many residents have legitimate concerns about whether Evanston has been treated as a community to serve or a stepping stone to higher office. That concern deepens when one considers the degree to which party machinery in Evanston and Chicago appears to be clearing the runway for him. When campaigns rely heavily on coordinated party backing and super PAC amplification, it raises real questions about independence — especially while publicly decrying Citizens United and outside spending. Similarly, Ms. Abughazaleh presents herself as a reform voice, yet she is not rooted in this district’s long civic fabric. Authentic representation requires lived investment — schools attended, neighborhoods served, long-term civic engagement. Voters should weigh carefully whether national online prominence substitutes for deep community ties. And then there is the glaring omission: Why was Phil Andrew — by far one of the most qualified individuals with lifelong ties to the area and decades of professional experience — not included in serious “frontrunner” consideration? If this race is truly about democratic reform, shouldn’t media coverage reflect a broader and more substantive field rather than reinforcing a narrative shaped by fundraising totals and party endorsements? Equally troubling is the selective engagement with local media. When candidates participate in highly visible forums but sidestep smaller or less favorable sit-downs, it undermines transparency. Democratic reform begins with accessibility and accountability at home. If the policy positions are nearly identical, then this election is about judgment, authenticity, independence, and genuine connection to the 9th District — not about who has the loudest institutional backing. Voters deserve more than a coronation by party insiders. They deserve a representative whose loyalty is to the people of this district first and always. Reply Latest News Youth performers to take center stage in ‘Circus Noir’ at Actors Gymnasium this weekend May 14th, 2026 How District 65 aims to foster ‘deeper culture of sustainability’ May 14th, 2026 Your Thursday newsletter May 14th, 2026 District 65 Assistant Superintendent Katie Speth to resign May 13th, 2026 Evanston continues to be recognized as a Tree City USA community May 13th, 2026 Trending District 65 Assistant Superintendent Katie Speth to resign Northwestern has no plan for repairs to vacant homes it owns A step back in time at Evanston house walk Roycemore alumni analysis: Financial warning signs existed for years Northlight Theatre's first drama Willard, Chute subject to ‘threatening messages’ Monday; no active threat District 202 re-elects board leadership, installs new student member ETHS student wins National Merit Scholarship ETHS ends no-credit absence policy, citing inequitable enforcement Guest Essay: The five lessons I learned from running for state Senate Facebook Instagram Twitter BlueSky RSS Home Page City News Schools Art & Life Public Square Food and Dining Sports Obituaries Podcasts and video Reparations Evanston History Our mission About us Advisory Committee Board of Directors Donate Diversity, equity and inclusion Get the newsletter Read us on your mobile device Submit a letter to the editor Advertise with us Contact us Evanston RoundTable privacy notice Thank You to our 2025 RoundTable Donors! The Evanston RoundTable is the community’s leading source of news about local government, schools, civic and artistic activities, and other important issues facing our city. We seek to foster civic engagement and empower people to address complex issues facing our diverse community, promoting a better understanding and appreciation of people of all races, ethnicities, and income levels. Evanston Roundtable 1514 Elmwood Avenue Suite 2 Evanston, Illinois 60201 847.864.7741 © 2026 Evanston RoundTable Media NFP Powered by Newspack Evanston RoundTable privacy notice Sign in Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) By signing up, you agree to our Terms and Conditions. Gift this article Close Link Copy link categories tags Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close