Flock Safety explains drone technology amid privacy concerns in Oakland County - CBS Detroit Latest U.S. Iran War World Cup World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds Detroit | News Weather Sports Videos Local News Autos Entertainment Health Politics U.S. World Latest Weather Live Radar Science of Weather Weather Watcher Network All Sports CBS Sports HQ Lions Pistons Red Wings Tigers Michigan Michigan State Odds Meet The Team Contact Us Station Info News Tips Contests & Promotions Galleries Advertise Jobs TV Schedule Michigan Matters Michigan Made Submit Your Pics/Video Download The App Memorials Watch CBS News Getting Answers Flock Safety explains drone technology amid privacy concerns in Oakland County By Elle Meyers Elle Meyers Elle Meyers joined the CBS News Detroit team in April of 2023 after spending two years covering Michigan's capitol. Elle is an Oregon native and a graduate of the University of Oregon (go Ducks!), where she double majored in journalism and political science, both of which have served her well in her journey to Detroit. Read Full Bio Elle Meyers Updated on: May 12, 2026 / 11:24 AM EDT / CBS Detroit Add CBS News on Google An Oakland County Board of Commissioners meeting earlier this month sparked a heated debate over Flock Safety cameras. It comes weeks after officials approved a nine-month pilot program that will allow the Oakland County Sheriff's Office to utilize drones when responding to 911 calls. The pilot program is free to the county but would cost $2.5 million if officials approve it for two years. Since last month's approval, residents have expressed concerns about privacy . On Monday, May 11, CBS News Detroit talked with the company for a closer look at the controversial technology. "This tool is really to help law enforcement more effectively respond to calls for service when seconds count. After somebody makes a 911 call, it's really important that law enforcement has the information they need to respond more effectively and efficiently to those calls for service," said Paris Lewbel, a spokesman for Flock Safety. The company says its drones can take off and be on scene within 90 seconds of a 911 call. Lewbel said the goal is to give law enforcement eyes on the scene more quickly. However, having eyes in the sky is just one of the many concerns Oakland County residents have expressed. "Flock does not have any facial recognition technology at all, and we don't have any in development," said Lewbel. Another concern was over license plate readers. "It does not have license plate readers built in but it is connected to our license plate reader system, so if a car passes by a license plate reader that's connected potentially to an Amber Alert, it will automatically pop up on the screen and be able to show where that location of that license plate read occurred and then again an operator can push a button and make the drone take off to that location," said Lewbel. Lewbel said a human operator is part of each step in deployment, except one. "It flies to the location by itself, but then once it's on scene, the operator can manipulate the camera, zoom in on things, try to get more information," Lewbel said. More from CBS News Fraser officers cleared after 15-year-old boy fatally shot by police, sheriff says 2 arrested after machete used to damage Frenchtown Township home, deputies say Oakland man arrested after alleged theft of Alameda County vehicles Man drowns while trying to save dog on Gun Lake, sheriff says City Council hearing on electronic monitoring raises more questions than answers In: Oakland County Sheriff's Office Drones Oakland County © 2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. Featured Local Savings An inside look at Flock Safety's drone technology An inside look at Flock Safety's drone technology 02:10 An inside look at Flock Safety's drone technology (02:10) Fraser officers cleared after 15-year-old boy fatally shot by police, sheriff says 2 arrested after machete used to damage Frenchtown Township home, deputies say Oakland man arrested after alleged theft of Alameda County vehicles Man drowns while trying to save dog on Gun Lake, sheriff says City Council hearing on electronic monitoring raises more questions than answers Oakland murder suspect dies after medical emergency at Santa Rita Jail, deputies say Suspected car thief shoots at law enforcement during chase, sheriff says Orange County residents demand answers from GKN Aerospace after April chemical tank crisis Featured Trump News Iran War Coverage 2026 NFL Schedule 2026 USMNT World Cup Roster Follow Us On YouTube Facebook instagram TikTok X CBS News Detroit Meet the Team Program Guide Contact Us Advertise With Us Terms & Conditions Sitemap Regulation Public File for WWJ-TV Public File for WKBD-TV Public Inspection File Help FCC Applications EEO Report Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman ©2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue