Ex-Costa Mesa police officer accused of using FLOCK cameras to track his mistress - CBS Los Angeles Latest U.S. Iran War Trump In China World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds Los Angeles | News Weather Sports Videos Send Tips CBS LA Shows All News LA News OC News IE News U.S. Entertainment Politics Consumer Business Health Latest Weather Radars & Maps All Sports Chargers LA Kings Rams Lakers Clippers Golf CBS Sports HQ Dodgers Angels Soccer Hockey College Sports The Desk Let's Go Places Inside SoCal Java with Jamie CBS News California Investigates Class Act SoCal Spotlight Station Info CBS LA Team Contests & Promotions Advertise Seen on TV Download the App Galleries Memorials Watch CBS News Local News Ex-Costa Mesa police officer accused of using FLOCK cameras to track his mistress By Matthew Rodriguez Matthew Rodriguez Digital Producer, CBS Los Angeles Matthew Rodriguez is a digital producer for CBS Los Angeles. He's previously reported for local outlets like the Argonaut and Pasadena Weekly. Matt typically covers breaking news and crime. Read Full Bio Matthew Rodriguez Updated on: April 14, 2026 / 10:27 PM PDT / CBS LA Add CBS News on Google A former Costa Mesa police officer pleaded guilty to using law enforcement tools, including FLOCK license plate readers, to track his wife, mistress and romantic rivals. The Orange County District Attorney's Office also said Robert Jay Josett, 35, contacted his mistress thousands of times via texts and calls dozens of times a day over the nine months and admitted to violating a restraining order by driving by her home. Josett pleaded guilty to three misdemeanors, including unauthorized computer access and fraud; annoying and repeated phone calls; and contempt of court for violating the restraining order. "The actions engaged by someone employed as a sworn police officer are obsessive, they are frightening and they are dangerous," said Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer. He was ordered to complete a 52-week domestic violence program and sentenced to three years of formal probation. The Orange County DA said that Josett allegedly bombarded his mistress with messages and calls after she ended their relationship in April 2024. Prosecutors added that he allegedly threatened to post explicit photos of her and demanded to know if she was seeing anyone else. Josett allegedly drove by his former mistress' home several times and called her and her new boyfriend relentlessly, as many as 58 times in one day, according to prosecutors. The Orange County DA added that Josett allegedly used the California Law Enforcement Telecommunications System database to gather information on people and vehicles not related to his job, including his mistress, someone she dated, and his wife in 2023. He is also accused of using FLOCK license plate readers to track his mistress and her romantic interests. Despite being placed on leave in December 2023, Josett allegedly used the cameras to find his mistress' new boyfriend's address in June 2024. "No one should have to live in fear of being tracked through law enforcement databases by someone with a badge and a gun because they decided to call off a romantic relationship," Spitzer said. "And no one gets to hide behind the badge as a shield for engaging in criminal behavior, and when a sworn law enforcement officer crosses the line from enforcing the law to committing crimes, they will be prosecuted." Josett was fired by the Costa Mesa Police Department on June 28, 2024. The Peace Officers Standards and Training, which governs law enforcement licensing in California, is reviewing Josett's certification. More from CBS News Ex-Georgia warden accused of taking part in prison contraband scheme, burying evidence San Leandro police chief charged in 2025 hit-and-run collision, placed on leave Man charged in shootout with Chicago police officers on South Side Ex-Pa. piano teacher sentenced for abusing 18 students over three decades Woodstock man accused of 6th DUI, had 9-month-old daughter in the car © 2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. Featured Local Savings Ex-Costa Mesa police officer pleads guilty to using FLOCK cameras to track his mistress Ex-Costa Mesa police officer pleads guilty to using FLOCK cameras to track his mistress 01:37 Ex-Costa Mesa police officer pleads guilty to using FLOCK cameras to track his mistress (01:37) Ex-Georgia warden accused of taking part in prison contraband scheme, burying evidence San Leandro police chief charged in 2025 hit-and-run collision, placed on leave Man charged in shootout with Chicago police officers on South Side Ex-Pa. piano teacher sentenced for abusing 18 students over three decades Woodstock man accused of 6th DUI, had 9-month-old daughter in the car 11 adults, 1 juvenile arrested, accused in card skimming crime ring Shooting suspect of Rihanna's Beverly Hills home denied competency hearing by Los Angeles judge Metro Detroit teen accused of carjacking at Applebee's restaurant pleads guilty Featured Hantavirus Cruise Ship Outbreak Iran War Coverage NFL Draft Grades NBA Playoff Bracket Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram TikTok X CBS News Los Angeles Meet the Team Program Guide Contests & Promotions Advertise With Us Terms & Conditions Sitemap Regulation Public File for KCBS-TV Public File for KCAL-TV Public Inspection File Help FCC Applications EEO Report Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman ©2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue