UC Berkeley faces lawsuit over Flock records as surveillance controversy grows | Campus | dailycal.org Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Facebook Twitter TikTok Instagram Site search Search Featured Special Issues Editor's Picks Awards News Campus City County State National Obituaries Investigations Sports Men’s Sports Women’s Sports Track and Field Cross Country Crew Bear Bytes Columns Special Report Arts Music Film & Television Theater Visual Art Literature Fashion Columns Culture Shot Video Games Comedy Local Events Arts Awards Dance Festivals Opinion Editorials Columns Op-Eds Our Voices Letters To The Editor The Soapbox Lifestyle How To Local Guides Quizzes Strikeout Multimedia Videos Photo Essays Podcasts Cartoons Weekender Back & Forth Commentary Features Personal Essays Poems Fiction Zine Data Puzzles Advertise Classifieds Legals Browse Noticies Place Notices About Contact us Hall of Fame Support! BERKELEY'S NEWS • September 11, 2026 Facebook Twitter TikTok Instagram Menu Site search Search Advertise Classifieds Legals Browse Noticies Place Notices About Contact us Hall of Fame Featured Special Issues Editor's Picks Awards News Campus City County State National Obituaries Investigations Sports Men’s Sports Baseball Basketball Football Golf Gymnastics Rugby Soccer Swimming & Diving Tennis Water Polo Women’s Sports Basketball Beach-volleyball Field-hockey Golf Gymnastics Lacrosse Soccer Softball Swimming-and-diving Tennis Volleyball Water-polo Track and Field Cross Country Crew Bear Bytes Columns Special Report Arts Music Film & Television Theater Visual Art Literature Fashion Columns Culture Shot Video Games Comedy Local Events Arts Awards Dance Festivals Opinion Editorials Columns Op-Eds Our Voices Letters To The Editor The Soapbox Lifestyle How To Local Guides Quizzes Strikeout Multimedia Videos Photo Essays Podcasts Cartoons Weekender Back & Forth Commentary Features Personal Essays Poems Fiction Zine Data Puzzles Share This Facebook Twitter WhatsApp LinkedIn SMS Email UC Berkeley faces lawsuit over Flock records as surveillance controversy grows Juliette Damian | Staff Juliette Damian Sep 4, 2026 Sep 4, 2026 Comments Facebook Twitter WhatsApp LinkedIn SMS Email In California, sharing data collected by ALPR systems with out-of-state agencies is illegal under Senate Bill 34. Joe Zheng | Senior Staff Facebook Twitter WhatsApp LinkedIn SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Facebook Twitter WhatsApp LinkedIn SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Resistance to UC Berkeley’s employment of controversial surveillance technology company Flock Security is intensifying as campus faces growing criticism and a lawsuit over records related to its data-sharing practices. The UC Board of Regents is facing a lawsuit over UC Berkeley’s alleged failure to disclose certain public records relating to UCPD’s automated license plate reader system. At the same time, student organizers have begun calling for campus to DeFlock, or end its contract with Flock. The petition was filed Friday, Aug. 28 in the Superior Court of Alameda County by Daniel Negrete, director of The Ellis Collective, a student-led research group under the Students’ Civil Liberties Union. The Ellis Collective previously revealed that the UC system shared data collected by ALPRs at multiple campuses with U.S. Customs and Border Protection and other federal agencies, in apparent violation of state law. In California, sharing data collected by ALPR systems with out-of-state agencies is illegal under Senate Bill 34. The suit follows an alleged failure by campus to provide records for a Feb. 17 public records request filed by Negrete seeking information about campus’s ALPR system. Specifically, Negrete requested audit logs reflecting searches of UCPD’s ALPR system by both UCPD and outside agencies, records that identified agencies and networks with which UCPD shares or receives ALPR data and records that show UCPD’s ALPR sharing settings. “Our review has just begun, but two things are clear: that the use of UC Berkeley’s ALPR system has been extensive, and the University did not want anyone to see the records,” Negrete alleged in a text message. Campus spokesperson Dan Mogulof said UC Berkeley had received the suit. He said in an email that campus does not generally comment on litigation but that “the records have been released.” Five days after Negrete filed his lawsuit, students and community members gathered Wednesday evening at Hearst Field Annex to raise awareness about ALPR surveillance and data sharing. The event’s organizers described it as an opportunity to grow the DeFlock movement, a growing national movement in resistance to the technology offered by Flock and other surveillance companies. “Our goal is not just to cut the university contract with Flock but also to win guarantees against data sharing with outside agencies for any ALPR cameras and to stop the university from accepting new ALPR contracts without community input and agreement,” said campus student and event host Catherine Boland in her presentation Wednesday. During the event, Boland noted that the city of Berkeley maintains 52 Flock cameras, with UC Berkeley maintaining another six Flock ALPR cameras at student housing in Albany and Emeryville under a two-year pilot project. Boland argued that cutting campus’s Flock contract would prevent sensitive data from being shared with Immigration and Customs Enforcement or other immigration enforcement agencies. A December 2025 report from the Northern California Regional Intelligence Center, a regional law enforcement intelligence agency, shows an agreement with UC Berkeley to share ALPR data. The report also shows the intelligence center sharing its data with a number of state agencies that have reportedly shared data with out-of-state or federal agencies in the past. Mogulof told The Daily Californian in May that UC Berkeley does not permit sharing of ALPR data for immigration enforcement purposes and that it does not share data with federal agencies. According to Mogulof, campus’s Flock system has been used in more than 100 investigations to generate leads, identify suspects and make arrests. He also noted that Flock cameras have been “instrumental” in closing several “significant” felony investigations. According to Negrete, a separate lawsuit he filed over UC Riverside’s alleged failure to furnish similar public records remains ongoing. “Addressing Berkeley’s use of Flock requires a lot more than this single suit,” Negrete wrote. “We will continue to litigate until the remaining records are unredacted and the court declares that the University violated the California Public Records Act. But meaningful efforts require us to confront these practices, and others, at scale.” Facebook Twitter WhatsApp LinkedIn SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Tags University Of California Regents Uc Berkeley Alpr System Deflock Flock Safety Superior Court Of Alameda County Daniel Negrete The Ellis Collective U.s. Customs And Border Protection Students’ Civil Liberties Union Ucpd California Public Records Act Uc Riverside Dan Mogulof Northern California Regional Intelligence Center Uc Berkeley Residential Student Services Program Juliette Damian Follow Juliette Damian Support Our Nonprofit Newsroom We're an independent student-run newspaper, and need your support to maintain our coverage. Become a member today! Support! comments powered by Disqus Sign up for our email newsletter! * indicates required Email Address * First Name * Last Name * Newsletter Subscription Daily Newsletter Weekly Newsletter Local Events Latest Video Games ‘Orbitals’ is a quick burst of anime retrofuturism 11 hrs ago Video Games The future of film marketing is on ‘Fortnite’ 11 hrs ago Water Polo Cal men’s water polo continues electric start with wins galore 12 hrs ago Volleyball Bears return to California after sweeping road trip with win over South Carolina 12 hrs ago Golf Cal men’s golf shows off young talent in first event of season 13 hrs ago featured special issues editor's picks awards photo essays news campus city county state national obituaries notes from the field sports football M. Hoops W. Hoops Baseball Softball Bear Bytes columns special report arts music film & television theater visual art literature fashion columns culture shot video games comedy local events arts awards opinion editorials op-eds letters to the editor columns editorial cartoons lifestyle how to local guides quizzes strikeout weekender Back & Forth Commentary Features Personal Essays Poems Fiction multimedia news: city news: campus sports arts entertainment insider data puzzles Advertise Classifieds Legals Browse Notices Place Notices About Contact Us Facebook Twitter TikTok Instagram × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 The Daily Californian 2483 Hearst Avenue, Berkeley, CA | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital . word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1