--- page 1 ---
https://www.dailycal.org/opinion/the_soapbox/flock-surveillance-cameras-threaten-local-
democracies/article_1d5514db-aa83-4676-b50e-6f444ba9b88a.html
Flock surveillance cameras threaten local democracies
Lily Grodzin | Senior Staff
Jun 30, 2026
Despite Berkeley’s sanctuary city status, external law enforcement agencies have searched ALPR data held by the
Berkeley Police Department without the knowledge of the Berkeley City Council.
Violet Vance | Staff
If you live in Berkeley, California — or in basically any American city — you are
constantly under the watchful eye of a surveillance camera. Only now, Big Brother
goes by a new name: Flock Safety.

--- page 2 ---
Flock is a company that produces mounted surveillance cameras and automated
license plate readers, or ALPRs, which have been adopted by municipalities across
the country. Although these technologies are not new, they carry dangerous
implications. Companies such as Flock covertly share the information they collect
with federal agencies, including ICE. 
Despite Berkeley’s sanctuary city status, external law enforcement agencies have
searched ALPR data held by the Berkeley Police Department without the knowledge
of the Berkeley City Council. Additionally, The Ellis Collective recently exposed the
UC system for sharing ALPR data from its Flock cameras at its Merced and Riverside
campuses with federal agencies. 
Through ALPR data, ICE can find the registered owner of a vehicle whose plate was
captured by the reader and, in turn, can learn where this individual lives, works and
commutes, endangering both that individual and anyone they visit. These cameras act
as ICE’s eyes, tracking the movements of our most vulnerable populations and
violating Berkeley’s sanctuary city status. 
A leaked memo from Berkeley’s City Attorney’s Office indicated that Flock refused to
accept amendments proposed by the office that would have limited Flock’s ability to
share data with federal agencies. However, when renewing the contract, Berkeley
City Council did not engage in a competitive bidding process with other potential
surveillance equipment providers, leaving it with very little leverage to pressure Flock
to accept contract amendments. 
Once the contract is signed, it is difficult for local governments and police
departments to negotiate the terms of data sharing. Already, Flock has begun sharing
information illegally through a “National Lookup” composed of ALPR data siphoned
from the many cities with which it contracts, potentially even without the consent or
knowledge of local governments. 
As it stands, there are 52 Flock cameras in Berkeley alone. San Francisco and
Oakland boast a staggering 2,173 cameras. Last month, Berkeley narrowly renewed
its $200,000 contract with Flock for another year. So what are we to do now?
I will not pretend I have a perfect answer. What I can offer are some cautionary
words.

--- page 3 ---
The mass adoption of Flock’s surveillance systems is part of a greater political shift
whereby the business interests of private tech companies supersede the authority of
elected officials. Now that Berkeley’s deal with Flock is signed, there is no guarantee
that Flock will continue to comply with California or Berkeley law surrounding data
sharing. In fact, both precedent and the financial incentives offered by the federal
government for data sharing indicate that Flock may do the opposite.
As more and more cities across the country adopt Flock, the federal government will
have eyes, ears and license plate readers everywhere. Far from a top-down approach,
the federal government has used Flock as a convenient tool to surveil American cities
without the expensive and unpopular approaches of sending the National Guard or
trying to directly influence state and local policies. 
Of course, Flock is not the only company that hands over this type of information to
the federal government. Companies such as Ring doorbell, which normally market
themselves to private buyers, have previously come under fire for wanting to share
data between customers, making sharing with the federal government seem imminent.
We all know that our online presence is not safe either — both private data brokers
and the government are able to purchase it to gain insight into our shopping habits,
personal identities and political convictions. However, Flock is special as its entire
business model revolves around contracting with local law enforcement agencies,
which necessitates police surveillance. And with more than 5,000 cities across the
country making these contracts, it is one of the fastest-growing surveillance
companies in the country.
This is how mass surveillance happens. It is not as though you wake up one day with
your phone tapped and the Thought Police at every corner. Rather, surveillance creeps
up slowly; the more we get used to it, the worse it will become. Knowing you are
being watched creates an environment where you police yourself. So although no
laws have officially changed in Berkeley surrounding immigration or protesting, the
adoption of Flock creates an environment in which you must assume that everything
you do is under the watchful gaze of a federal agent.
My best practical advice is to learn where the cameras are positioned around the city,
so you can know when and where you are being watched. This is doubly important if
you are a non-citizen and/or engaged in protest.

--- page 4 ---
Lily Grodzins
Moreover, we must hold the city council members who voted to renew this contract
accountable. Councilmembers Brent Blackaby, Mark Humbert, Rashi Kesarwani,
Shoshana O’Keefe and Terry Taplin voted in favor of renewing the $200,000 contract.
Out of these five, only Kesarwani has said she will not run for re-election — the
others are likely hoping to be reelected this November. This means that now we have
the most power we ever will as voting residents of Berkeley. We must show them that
this decision is intolerable and vote for strong, opposing candidates where possible.
We must make it clear that such a violation of our privacy and safety will not be
tolerated.
In the end, there is no amount of surveillance that will preemptively stop crimes of
passion or desperation. All surveillance will, however, decrease the privacy and
freedoms of those whom it surveils. Just as I wrote after President Donald Trump’s
election that we must not preemptively give up our rights in anticipation of them
being taken away, I will caution readers not to retire their demands for freedom and
privacy because they are being encroached on. 
So while I encourage readers to be cautious and to know where cameras are, it is also
important not to become dogs that refuse to cross the perimeter of the lawn long after
our shock collars have been removed. We are the first people to bear witness to our
own actions, and we must not turn the carceral gaze in toward ourselves. 
Lily Grodzins is a senior staff member in the opinion department and a member of the Editorial Board. Contact her at
lgrodzins@dailycal.org, the opinion desk at opinion@dailycal.org or follow us on X.