--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www. cityofsanmateo. org
Agenda Number:  {{item.number}} 
Section Name: {{section.name}} 
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: {{item.tracking_number}}  
TO: 
City Council
FROM: 
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY: 
City Manager' s Office
MEETING DATE: 
February 03, 2024
SUBJECT: 
City Council " Blue Sky" Goal Setting Workshop
RECOMMENDATION: 
Review the current City Council Priority List for fiscal year 2023- 2024 and identify new City Council priorities for
consideration for fiscal year 2024- 2025.  
BACKGROUND: 
The City Council goal setting process includes a three- step deliberation process resulting in the adoption of a Priority List
that represents the City Council’ s priorities. The City Council Blue Sky workshop scheduled for February 3, 2024, is the first
step in the goal setting process. At this meeting, City Council will review the current Priority List and identify new priorities
for consideration for the upcoming fiscal year. The meeting will include 30-minute public comment period at the start of
the meeting followed by a facilitated discussion among the Council to review the current Priority List, recommended
items
for addition and removal, and major initiatives staff is already working on.  
To facilitate the review of the current fiscal year priority list, staff categorized items into the following: ( 1) Priorities to
Retain; and (2) Priorities to Remove. A description of each category is listed below.  
Priorities to Retain: 
Priorities included in this category are ones that staff have invested significant resources into to date and it is not
practical or advisable to discontinue work on these items. 
Priorities to Remove:   
Items in this category are either complete or will be complete by the end of the fiscal year and staff recommends
removing them because the goal of this workshop is to create a priority list for the next fiscal year;  
Items are now embedded in our operations and staff recommends removing them because work on them will
continue to take place regardless of whether the City Council tracks them on its priority list;  
Items are mandated and are required to happen whether or not they are on the Council’ s priority list; or,  
Items are listed or covered in another larger priority and tracking them separately as redundant. 
In addition to dividing the items into the above categories, staff has assigned an estimated time frame for completion as
well as an estimated resource intensity for each item. The resource intensity categories ( low, medium, and high) include a
preliminary assessment of both staff time and financial resources required to complete an item. More detailed analysis of
the resources required including additional staffing and budget appropriations, will occur as part of the second step in the
goal setting process.

--- page 2 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Following the review of the items on the fiscal year 2023-2024 priority list, Council will review the list of potential new
priorities submitted by each council member and staff and discuss which items to include in the priority list. To help
further the conversation, staff color-coded the proposed priorities to identify ones that are new, existing, or modified
versions of existing priorities. Staff also identified with an asterisk, priorities that were raised by more than one council
member. As part of the consideration process for new priorities to include on the list, staff is providing a list of major
department and Citywide initiatives identified for fiscal year 2024- 2025. These lists highlight the significant work plan
items that staff plans to address next fiscal year that Council may not otherwise be aware of, but that staff does not
believe should be tracked on the Priority List. 
Some of the major community- driven initiatives such as flood control, historic resources, cell sites, and bicycle and
pedestrian infrastructure & public safety are already captured in some of the current priorities or the proposed priorities
by City Council and Staff.  
The second step in the goal setting process, scheduled for March 18, 2024, will be a study session item where staff will
share the proposed new fiscal year priority list with proposed work plans and resources required, and staff will seek
Council feedback on the wording of the proposed priorities and work plans. In addition, the City Council will receive public
comment on the draft list. The final step in the process, which will occur at the April 1, 2024, City Council meeting will be a
consent calendar item where City Council will approve the priority list with the proposed priorities for the 2024-2025 fiscal
year. Staff plans to hold a progress report of the priority list in the fall of 2024. 
BUDGET IMPACT: 
There is no budget impact from this agenda item. The resources required for the final list of priorities identified by the City
Council will be taken into consideration
as part of the development of the fiscal year 2024 - 2025 budget. 
ENVIRONMENTAL
DETERMINATION: 
This workshop is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government activity which does not involve any
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
CEQA Guidelines Section 15378( b)(4).) 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Priorities to Retain
Att 2 - Priorities to Remove
Att 3 - Major Department Initiatives
Att 4 - Proposed Priorities FY 24-25
Att 5 – Public Comment
STAFF CONTACT
Denise Garcia, Management Analyst II
dgarcia@cityofsanmateo.
org
650) 522- 7277

--- page 3 ---
Fiscal Year 2023-24 City Council Priorities
Items Staff Request Retaining
Department Lead(s) Council Priority
Status Update as of Jan 2024
Proposed Modifications
3
City Manager's
Office
Establish policies to decarbonize
existing buildings
and infrastructure and eliminate methane gas use
by 2030
Staff presented a project update at the January 16, 2024 City Council Special Meeting. City
Council members directed staff to continue research, analysis, and outreach on all five policy
options presented for consideration. This feedback will be incorporated for the next phase of
outreach which will begin in July 2024. The final Sustainable
Building Strategy would return to
City Council for adoption in 2025.
4
City Manager's
Office
Integrate master plans to increase efficiency and
community
impact
Staff presented the progress report to City Council on November 6th and recommended we
move this item to the 2-5 year completion
category. 
Move item to 2-5 year completion category. 
5
Public Works and
City Manager' s
Office
Design and implement capital improvements for
permanent
street closure
between 1st and 2nd Ave being an optional bid item. Project Team anticipates
construction
to significant increases in scope throughout
design process. Construction
of improvements
to
Move item to 2-5 year completion
category. 
8
Finance
Initiate a Community
Budget Process for
anticipated revenue from Measure CC
The City has yet to recieve Measure
CC revenue. Once revenue is recieved, staff plans to initiate
a community budget process.
Move item to 2-5 year completion category. 
9
Public Works
Remove North Shoreview from FEMA Flood
Assessment (
LOMR), which is part of the process to change floodzones.  Current deadline for update is 30
Move item to 2-5 year completion category. 
11
City Manager' s
Office
Consider the adoption of wage theft protections
San Mateo County created an internal Office of Labor Standards Compliance
in December 2023
to provide wage theft protections & strengthen worker protections, especially for the most
vulnerable
and at-risk workers. The office will start on July 1, 2024. Staff will bring a study item
to the City Council in early 2025, to avoid duplicating efforts with the County, State, and Federal
governments
in providing wage protection.
12
City Manager' s
Office
Explore the establishment
of Property- Based
Improvement Districts
Work has not commenced. Staff will start internal discussions
on property- based improvement
districts in the summer.
13
City Manager' s
Office
Explore the implementation
of a Customer
Response Management or 311 system
Staff paused progression
on this item to allow staff to prioritize Workday implementation
16
City Manager's
Office and Public
Works
Enhance city- wide disaster response and
emergency preparedness
The San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department's Office of Emergency Services (OES) developed a
has enhanced its wet weather preparations with cleaning of catch basins, additional sand bag
stations, and regular inter- departmental
forecast monitoring/ planning check- ins.  OES is
developing a new Emergency Operations Plan for the City. Emergency Management training has
for City staff was purchased in January 2024.
17
Community
Development
Update the General Plan
The General Plan and Final EIR were published in January 2024, with adoption hearings before
the Planning Commission
and City Council planned for January and March 2024. Once General
Plan 2040 is adopted, a ballot initiative to amend Measure Y will need to be brought to the
voters in November
2024.
Modify priority to include amending Measure Y and
initiating Zoning Code amendments
to implement
General Plan 2040. 
Items to be Completed within 2 to 5 Years
Items to be Completed within the Fiscal Year
7

--- page 4 ---
Fiscal Year 2023-24 City Council Priorities
Items Staff Request Retaining
Department Lead(s) Council Priority
Status Update as of Jan 2024
Proposed Modifications
18
Community
Development
Implement Housing Element Policies
HCD on November
22. The City recieved notification
in January 2024 from HCD that the Housing
Element is in Substantial Compliance. The Next step is for Housing Element adoption by the
Planning Commission
in March and by the City Council in April. Implementation
of Housing
Element two programs was completed in Nov/ Dec - adoption of Objective Design Standards and
increasing the administrative
approval threshold for residential projects to 25 units. 
Implementation of Housing Element policies and programs with a 2024 commitment is ongoing.
Maintain priority - significant work to implement
Housing Element will be necessary each year through
2031.
19
Library and Public
Works
Address structural issues at the Marina Library
Library representatives
met with architect, design lead, and engineering
team for the Marina
project on 12/19/23. The next step is for Project Team to summarize their findings, create visual
renderings of their ideas, and put together alternatives
for project scope, and begin the
conceptual design process. Construction still anticipated to start fall 2024.
20
Public Works
Reconstruct
all failed streets in San Mateo by 2026
Phase 4 construction is suspended for the winter season and will resume road reconstruction in
the Spring 2024. Additional field investigations
were performed
fall 2023 on Phase 5 streets to
ensure road treatments are appropriate. City to receive 90% Plans, Specifications and Estimates
PS& E) in January. Phase 5 anticipated
construction
bid in March/ April 2024.
21
Public Works
Replace all remaining high voltage circuits to
improve safety and reliability of the street light
system
Construction of Phase 3 is on-going.  City’s contractor has completed all the work they can until
PG& E completes preparation
of various electrical service connections.  PG& E is experiencing
delays so our project is paused.  Design on Phase 4 has been paused but will resume in January
because PG& E indicated they will begin working on the Phase 4 electrical service applications.
22
Public Works
Fund and deliver the Clean Water Program
progress and continue. Construction of the WWTP Upgrade & Expansion, Immediate Action, and
Annual Major Components
projects are in progress and will continue. Project completion
23
Library
Implement Library Space Master Plan
No further progress on the business area, jobseekers area, or biotech area at this time. 
Items to be completed in 5 or more years
8

--- page 5 ---
Fiscal Year 2023-24 City Council Priorities
Items Staff Request Retaining
Department Lead(s) Council Priority
Status Update as of Jan 2024
Proposed Modifications
24
Parks & Recreation
Implement the Central Park Master Plan
In process of finalizing construction documents for the playground. A number of bidders have
been prequalified
for the construction
of the playground in preparation
of seeking pricing. City
Council will hold a Study Session regarding the Playground Project and funding on February 20, 
2024. There was a Fallen Heroes Memorial groundbreaking
ceremony on 12/ 19/ 2023 with a
planned unveiling in Spring 2024.
25
Public Works
Expedite efforts to improve the stormwater
collection, drainage, and storage system, including
dredging the Marina lagoon
Balloting period completed 12/17/23,  stormwater fee passed and results were presented to
Council on 1/ 16/ 24 with subsequent
Fee adoption. In parallel, Staff released RFPs for the
Stormwater Master Plan Update and Marina Lagoon Maintenance Dredging.  Staff will provide
their next quarterly update at the February 20, 2024 Council Meeting
27
Public Works
Implement a Green Fleet by 2030
Preliminary
design for Fleet EV infrastructure
at City Hall is underway, expected construction
in
Spring of 2025. Planning and coordination of Corp Yard Green Fleet infrastructure to kick off in
2024. Staff have recently experienced
supplier issues and delays in purchasing
electric vehicles.
28
Public Works
Expedite efforts to produce potable water from the
Clean Water Program
Project in preliminary
engineering
design and environmental
review phase. 
Modify to "Expedite efforts to provide high quality
effluent from the wastewater
treatment plant upgrades
to support the future production of potable water"
29
Public Works
at City at-grade crossings
City' s construction
on 4th and 5th Ave Railroad Crossings is anticipated to be completed
by the
end of February 2024 while Caltrain's construction is anticipated to be completed in October
2024. Project for Villa Terrace crossing closure and Bellevue Ave medians continues with
preliminary engineering design phase. Construction anticipated Summer 2024. Outreach to
community
is underway with flyer and door knocking anticipated
in early 2024.
30
Public Works
Plan for the downtown grade separations and long-
term train corridor improvements
Grant opportunities continue to be reviewed for this effort. No new grant applications have
been submitted at this time.  
9

--- page 6 ---
Fiscal Year 2023-24 City Council Priorities
Items Staff Request Retaining
Department Lead(s) Council Priority
Status Update as of Jan 2024
Proposed Modifications
31
Public Works
Boulevard from Grant to Mariners Island Boulevard
Funding for the design of the Norfolk/Fashion Island Intersection Project is identified. Staff is
working with San Mateo County Transportation
Authority on the 19th Avenue/ Fashion Island
Blvd Smart Corridor project that includes implementation of bicycle facilities, and may be
designed simultaneously
with the Fashion Island/ Norfolk intersection. Feasibility assessment of
alternatives is underway, with design expected to begin in the next fiscal year.
32
Public Works
Complete all High and Medium- High priority
projects in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the
Pedestrian Master Plan
Design has begun for Delaware Corridor Safe Routes Protected Bike Lane and 28th Avenue Gap
Closure project. The team is developing an implementation program for remaining high and
medium- high priority projects to systematically
program design and construction
of facilities.
10

--- page 7 ---
Fiscal Year 2023-24 City Council Priorities
Items Staff Request Removing
Department
Lead( s)
Council Priority
Status Update as of Jan 2024
Reason for Removal
1
City Attorney' s Office and
City Clerk' s Office
Study campaign finance reform policies, including voluntary
expenditure limit, disclosure requirement for independent
expenditures, and improving access for voter education initiatives
Completed
Remove due to completion.
2
City Clerk
Explore increasing representation
of youth and seniors on City Boards
and Commissions
The City Council appointed two Youth Commissioners
to the Park and Recreation
Commission on November 6, 2023.  The Youth Commissioners
received
onboarding from the City Clerk' s Office and joined their first Commission meeting
on January 3, 2024. 
Remove since the initial goal was
complete, although the work will
continue.
6
Community Development
and City Manager' s Office
Create a racial equity community art project
Mural was completed in October 2023, unveiled 10/ 28/ 23, and city web page has
been updated with that announcement and final photos. 
Remove due to completion.
7
Community Development
Analyze density minimums for mixed- use projects and update the
Density Bonus and Community Benefits policies
Work with consultant ( EPS) is ongoing, with a study session to present findings
and receive Council direction anticipated in Spring/ Summer 2024.
Housing Element implementation.
10
Community Development
Implement the Climate Action Plan ( CAP) and work to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions
The CAP Technical Update is scheduled for adoption in early 2024 in conjunction
with the General Plan Update.
this work regardless of its priority
14
City Attorney' s Office
Adopt a Retail Cannabis Ordinance
Staff presented policy and permit options for consideration to City Council on
October 2nd. City Council deferred this item to year 2025.
15
City Attorney' s Office
Review and update the City Charter related to district elections, 
mayoral rotation, and filling Council vacancies
Council provided feedback on proposed Charter amendments.  Next study session
to be held on February 20, 2024.
Remove since item will be complete
by the end of the current fiscal year.
26
Public Works
Meet the 100% trash reduction mandate
Design and environmental
permitting is underway for the 41st Ave Trash Capture
project. The design for the Small Trash Capture project is complete and will be put
out for construction bid January 2024.
Remove since we are mandated to
do this work.
Items to be Completed within 2 to 5 Years
Items to be Completed within the Fiscal Year
Items to be completed in 5 or more years
6

--- page 8 ---
Major Department Initiatives
For Fiscal Year 2024-25
Citywide Initiatives that have High Resource Intensities: 
Initiate and finalize Stormwater Facilities Masterplan, develop Capital project programming and
funding plan for Stormwater Fee. 
Citywide Enterprise Resource Planning Software System Implementation. 
Citywide ballot measures and district elections education & outreach. 
Organizational assessment of CIP program and process. 
Citywide Recruitment and Retention. 
Creation of a citywide communications
and community engagement division. 
City Manager’ s Office:  
Organize and facilitate DEI Strategic Framework implementation workshops for staff within each
department across the organization.  
Convening with diverse community leaders to build meaningful relationships with community
members who typically do not engage with city staff. 
Develop a Citywide Grants Management Team. 
Streamline Special Events permit and process. 
Community Development Department:  
Review and update the City’s Tenant Protection Ordinance, including community outreach. 
Ongoing support to manage and process the public-private partnership mixed-use project with
affordable housing on City owned property on Railroad and 4th Ave (Bespoke).   
Ongoing code amendments to clean up Municipal Code and simplify/ streamline development
requirements, including updates to the Floodplain Ordinance and Residential HVAC noise
requirements. 
Support the hiring and recruitment process to maintain full staffing; and continue training and
collaboration to increase staff efficiency, consistency, and accuracy.  
Process code amendments and update processes to align with new State law requirements, 
including updating the ADU Ordinance and establishing pre-approved ADU/ JADU plans and
implementing the online SolarApp ( contactless permit approval process for eligible PV
applications). 
Convert more express permits to automated contactless permits. 
Continuing to provide high quality customer service and process planning and building permit
applications within timeline targets. 
Establish a third-party hearing officer for various citywide appeals, and process associated code
amendments. 
Human Resources: 
Recruit for staffing vacancies at all levels of the organization. 
Streamline recruitment process. 
Nurture and Retain staff.

--- page 9 ---
Organize Employee Town halls. 
Finance: 
Fill staff vacancies while continuing to provide a full range of services ( 24% vacancy rate). 
Review internal controls and enhance Finance Department’ s business processes. 
Explore development of a Section 115 Trust Fund for Unfunded Pension Liability. 
Library Department:  
Secure funding to finish painting the Main Library’ s first and second floors. 
Purchase & Implementation
of an updated Mobile Library Service. 
Develop a department- wide strategic plan. 
Enhance the library by relocating the Main Library café from the 3rd floor to the 1st floor. 
Parks & Recreation:  
East Hillsdale Park design finalization and construction document finalization.  
King Pump Shed construction to close out the synthetic turf at King Park installation.  
Assessing aquatics facilities for renovation and upgrades in addition to resiliency center
upgrades for King Center. 
Childcare Licensing assessment and implementation ( Lakeshore Facility). 
Irrigation controller technology upgrade installation ( 2 year project). 
Age Friendly Action Plan – Develop age friendly business certification program (pilot project).  
Begin construction on Central Park playground. 
Filling Staff vacancies ( 20% vacancy rate). 
Police Department:  
Organized Retail Theft Grant – partner with Daly City and San Bruno to implement strategies to
discourage retail theft such as targeted security details; creating workspace/ substations near
retail; implementation of new technologies; and other tactics.  
Communications Infrastructure Phase II/ III – replacement/ repair of external infrastructure and
portable radios. 
Ensure compliance with RIPA (Racial and Identity Profiling Act) and conduct analysis of data. 
Transition crisis response and domestic violence services in-house. 
Enhance neighborhood safety by leveraging technology to increase efficiency and effectiveness
i.e. ALPR, sUAS, creating a real time crime center, etc.).  
Public Works:  
Continue expediting recruitment process for vacant positions ( 21% vacancy rate). 
Provide coaching opportunities for existing employees. 
Collaborate with CDD on various General Plan implementations. 
Complete Local Roadway Safety Plan and develop implementation
programming. 
Complete Citywide and N. Central Complete Streets Plans and develop implementation
programming. 
Initiate process to acquire required permits for Citywide Creek Maintenance. 
Examine department structure to respond to community needs.

--- page 10 ---
Investigate consolidating Public Works offices from 1900 Ofarrell to City Hall or other City
facilities.   
Update Small cell Wireless Ordinance and Design Standards ( partially to meet revisions to State
Law).

--- page 11 ---
1
LEGEND:  
New priority
Resource
Intensity
A priority
mentioned
by more than one Council
Member
Modified
existing
priority
Completion
Timeframe
Resources
required
to complete
the item. High = lots of staff/ funding
required. Medium = moderate
amount
of
staff/ funding required. Low = lower level of staff/ funding required. 
City Council Proposed Priorities
for Fiscal Year 2024-2025
Mayor Diaz Nash
Resource
Intensity
Completion
Timeframe
1. Create a comprehensive, ongoing Citywide Community Outreach and
Engagement Program. 
a. 
Rationale: Improve community understanding of City activities and
how they can help; increase community satisfaction through better
response to inquiries and community education; identify and resolve
issues before they become problems; gain actionable ideas from
people living the issue/ seeing the opportunity.  
High
1 year
2. 
Implement a robust, year- round Downtown Activation and Beautification
Program as part of our core City services, including a standing City
Beautification Committee. 
a. 
Rationale: Increase resident/ visitor time spent in Downtown; increase
local business revenues, satisfaction and retention; reflect San Mateo' s
position as the Peninsula' s largest city with a diverse offering of
cultural and entertainment
events; help justify the claim of "San
Mateo: It's Where You Want To Be!" 
High
2-5 years
3. 
Partner with CalTrain on a substantial effort to bring grade separations to
Downtown San Mateo as quickly as possible. 
a. 
Rationale: Preserve the long- term economic/ community vitality and
leadership position of San Mateo; prevent crossing closures of 30+ 
minutes every hour once increased electrified schedule is
implemented that would devastate our City. 
High
5 or
more
years
Deputy Mayor Newsom
Resource
Intensity
Completion
Timeframe
1. 
Create a Capital Infrastructure
Plan / a process for reinvesting in infrastructure. 
Have the City have the ability to evaluate City facilities and assets and be able
to amortize/ plan for their " end of life" (or when they will need to be
upgraded.) 
High
1 year
2. 
Emergency Preparedness/ Readiness- we have an incredible team of first
responders ( Fire, Police & Public Works and entire City staff,) however we saw
failures from not having a better Emergency Preparedness
Plans when we
experienced flooding on 12/ 31/ 22. I want to ensure that our Emergency
Preparedness
Plans are updated and that we ready in the event of a disaster. 
Medium
2-5 year
3. 
Economic Vitality/ Support of Business Development. Many mixed use buildings
are being built but remain vacant, or worse are filled and then don't make it
after a year. The pandemic exacerbated this. Ex: Station Park Green' s entire
business area now only has 1 business left. Similarly Bay Meadows
developments still have vacancies and continue to turn-over. Our Historic
Medium
1 year

--- page 12 ---
2
LEGEND:  
New priority
Resource
Intensity
A priority
mentioned
by more than one Council
Member
Modified
existing
priority
Completion
Timeframe
Resources
required
to complete
the item. High = lots of staff/ funding
required. Medium = moderate
amount
of
staff/ funding required. Low = lower level of staff/ funding required. 
Downtown still needs help recovering, and many of our neighborhood
small
business corridors could also use assistance. 
Council Member Loraine
Resource
Intensity
Completion
Timeframe
1. 
Conduct an Annual Transportation Review of progress on all ongoing plans
Complete Streets, Bike & Ped, citywide TDM ordinance, etc.), including
project updates and key metrics such as City mode share, collision and safety
data.  
a. 
During the first review, explore options to expedite the funding and
creation of a Vision Zero Action Plan without displacing related work
already scheduled. 
High
1 year
2. 
Enable more quick-build bicycle/ micromobility/ pedestrian projects by
identifying reliable City funding ( e.g. General Fund, Measure A, Transportation
Impact Fee, etc.) and installation via Public Works staff and/ or a trusted on-
call contractor. Use the funding and staff to complete high-priority quick-build
projects identified in City transportation plans. 
High
2-5 years
3. 
Explore piloting a City Grant Fund (likely complementary and similar to the
Community Development Block Grant—maybe even an extension— but
applicable citywide, beyond the CDBG target area)* to which local community-
based organizations could apply, to fund projects that benefit low-income
households and those most vulnerable in San Mateo
Medium
2 – 5
years
Council Member Hedges
Resource
Intensity
Completion
Timeframe
1. 
Electrification: 
a. 
I propose the San Mateo City Government educate constituents about
the home electrification tax credits in the Inflation Reduction Act as
well as State of California incentives for electrification. 
b. Further, the City of San Mateo should conduct at least one meeting in
each district to educate the public on the requirements of
electrification including written take- aways with simple steps about
requirements to convert to electrification and the methods for
applying for financial assistance. We should also utilize various media
platforms ( such as the City’s website) and social media to reach as
many households as possible. 
High
1 year
2. 
Gardening Waste: 
a. 
So as to prevent home and business flooding because of clogged street
gutters, I propose a simple ordinance to require gardeners to collect
leaves, grass and clippings and take them to a green landfill instead of
blowing them into the street. For residents that do their gardening
themselves, their green waste shall be placed in their green waste
barrel provided by Recology for composting. No one shall blow, rake or
cause gardening waste to be deposited into the streets of the City of
San Mateo. 
Medium
1 year
3. 
Labor Law Enforcement/ Worker Protections: 
Medium
1 year

--- page 13 ---
3
LEGEND:  
New priority
Resource
Intensity
A priority
mentioned
by more than one Council
Member
Modified
existing
priority
Completion
Timeframe
Resources
required
to complete
the item. High = lots of staff/ funding
required. Medium = moderate
amount
of
staff/ funding required. Low = lower level of staff/ funding required. 
a. 
Determine the date of expiration for our contract with the City of San
Jose for their enforcement of our minimum wage ordinance; I’d like to
see that work insourced back into the County as soon as our newly
established OLSE is prepared to take it on. The City Manager should be
coordinating with the County Executive’ s office on this. 
b. Cooperate with the San Mateo County Office of Labor Standards
Enforcement. We left in place the developing of a City of San Mateo
Office of Labor Standards Enforcement on our Blue-Sky objectives last
year by a vote of 5-0; we also committed to creation of a wage theft
ordinance.  
c. 
On November 12, 2023, the County Board of Supervisors voted 5-0 to
develop a countywide Office of Labor Standards Enforcement, thereby
negating the need for us to develop our own. However, since we have
our own minimum wage ordinance, City staff should be well versed in
its tenets. 
d. 
Ways to cooperate with the County: 
i. A prominent page on the city website explaining employee
wages/ hours/ working conditions rights with a link to the
County’ s Office of Labor Standards Enforcement and to all
relevant complaint forms. Further, the computer in City Hall
should have the aforementioned forms in both printable and
fillable versions as well as contact information for the County
Office of Labor Standards
ii. City Hall front desk employees should also be prepared to help
residents who feel their labor rights have been violated to fill
out any necessary paperwork related to filing a claim, as well
as provide a “warm hand off” for said residents to the County
Office of Labor Standards Enforcement. This will require said
City employees to be trained accordingly. 
iii. While AI and AV advance, it is critical the City of San Mateo
does not allow said advancements to replace City employees. I
propose Council pass a Resolution affirming our commitment
to ensuring responsible integration of new technologies in a
way that mitigates employee displacement, and that Council
directs the City Manager and HR Manager to work together to
develop strategies to attain this goal. Such strategies should be
created in partnership with both our labor partners and our
County Workforce Investment Board (NOVAworks). 
Council Member Lee
Resource
Intensity
Completion
Timeframe
1. 
Expand youth workforce development & civic leadership opportunities.  
a. 
Create year- round paid internship and fellowship positions within the
City across multiple departments. Expand leadership development
opportunities that fill staffing gaps and expand community services. 
b. Partner with the College of San Mateo and local high schools to tailor a
mini-City Services Academy for young people. 
Medium
2-5

--- page 14 ---
4
LEGEND:  
New priority
Resource
Intensity
A priority
mentioned
by more than one Council
Member
Modified
existing
priority
Completion
Timeframe
Resources
required
to complete
the item. High = lots of staff/ funding
required. Medium = moderate
amount
of
staff/ funding required. Low = lower level of staff/ funding required. 
2. 
Increase organizational capacity to support the Toyonaka Sister City Program
within the Parks & Recreation Department and City Clerk Department. 
a. 
Delineate roles and responsibilities within the City department and
partnering organizations.  
b. Dedicate budget for 70th anniversary.     
Medium
1 year
3. Improve and strengthen democratic systems and decrease polarization.  
a. 
Study Rank Choice Voting for City Council elections.  
b. Continue exploring options to improve civic engagement, and voter
turnout, and expand campaign finance reforms. 
Medium
2-5 years

--- page 15 ---
City Council
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
Re: Prioritize Vision Zero
Dear Council Members: 
By now, you may have seen emails from parents and residents throughout our city
asking this Council to prioritize Vision Zero and safer streets, especially around schools. 
We are writing to specifically urge this Council to make these priorities and the
acceleration of roadway safety projects, a priority in the next budget cycle through the
Blue Sky process. 
Over the last year we have seen increased aggressive driving and speeding on the
streets around our cities. There have been several recent collisions that have
endangered our children’s lives on their commute to school. On four separate occasions
this past fall, students were hit by vehicles, or had near misses while traveling on foot or
bike — at North Shoreview, Lead Elementary, San Mateo High, and Foster City
Elementary
Vision Zero seeks the zero deaths and serious injuries from our roadways. Achieving
Vision Zero requires a fundamental paradigm shift in how our culture views traffic
collisions — we must affirm the fact that every roadway death and life-altering injury is
preventable  . Vision Zero applies to all roadway users,  traffic collision injuries, and
traffic-related deaths. When streets are safe for people walking and biking, they are safe
for all road users, including drivers and transit riders as well. 
All residents, including students, deserve peace of mind knowing they can travel safely
around town. To this end, we make the following requests: 
1.  Vision Zero Policy - adopt ASAP
We know that his Council is on track to adopt a Vision Zero policy through the update to
the Circulation Element in the General Plan. If for whatever reason the General Plan

--- page 16 ---
update is delayed, we strongly urge you to adopt the Vision Zero policy separately
anyway. We have been waiting 9 years, since the City’s 2015 Sustainable Streets Plan
called for such a policy. We are glad we are finally here, please don’t delay any further. 
2.  FUND Vision Zero
More importantly, we urge you to prioritize funding and staffing resources to create and
implement a Vision Zero action plan. Staff must have whatever resources they need to
implement as many roadway safety projects as possible. We need more staff to
accelerate the rate of construction of these needed roadway safety projects and make
up for years of underfunding these important initiatives. 
3.  Quick-builds
Through the Vision Zero action plan, we specifically want to see as many quick-build
projects happen in our city as possible - at a minimum, we want to see one per District. 
There are many benefits of quick-builds, one being that they are an important tool in
quickly responding to collisions and near misses - as successfully happened on Franklin
Parkway in the Bay Meadows neighborhood (which was featured on CNN). 
Other benefits include: they are reversible and illustrate for the community what could
be made permanent. Quick-builds can also be adjusted after community feedback to
improve the projects. 
4.  No Right Turn on Red in the Downtown Core
One of the quickest safety projects that can happen in our Downtown Core is banning
right turns on red.  An analysis of intersections with No Turn On Red in Washington, DC
showed a 92% decrease in motorists failing to yield to people walking at red lights and a
97% decrease in conflicts between cars.  Almost all of the injury collisions in the
Downtown Business District between 2017-2022 occurred at intersections and
implementing No Turn on Red can dramatically decrease the number of collisions in our
main business district. 
We ask that you prioritize Vision Zero, while there is time to prevent any further injuries
or worse. We cannot wait. Safe streets save lives. 
Sincerely, 
co-lead
co-lead
SVBC Community Organizer

--- page 17 ---
From:
Patrice Olds
To:
Denise Garcia
Subject:
FW: Blue Skies Priority: Youth Workforce
Development & 
Civic Education
Opportunities
Date:
Tuesday, December
26, 2023 1:56: 51 PM
Patrice M. Olds, MMC
City Clerk
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403-1388
polds@cityofsanmateo. org
www.cityofsanmateo. org
650) 522-7042
From:  
Sent: Friday, December 22, 2023 4:55 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: 
Subject: Blue Skies Priority: Youth Workforce Development & Civic Education Opportunities
Greetings to the City Council, 
We are interns with City Councilwoman and Former Mayor Amourence Lee and have
been working on a concept program to support youth in our City.
Goal:
Our goal is to increase Youth Workforce Development & Civic Education
Opportunities for students and recent graduates who’ve often been disenfranchised
by creating paid internship and fellowship opportunities to work at the City of San
Mateo. We hope to give an opportunity that allows students to earn job/life experience
and positively impact our community in a way that’s flexible with school life. Through
these paid internships/ fellowships these future youth workers can cultivate a stronger
connection with our city government.
We see this idea as a way to build staff capacity for the City to increase service and
facility access. For example, if there were young people helping to staff our
community centers, we could expand the hours of operation on the weekends. The
King Community Center could be open to families on weekends and transform and
revive City spaces into affordable and safe ‘third spaces’ accessible to all. 
Problem/ Opportunity:
Not many flexible jobs for students and recent graduates, who have limited
schedules and job opportunities. Internships are more streamlined and
accessible, student- friendly schedules than a lot of jobs. 
Many jobs are in retail and don’t provide much impact on the community,

--- page 18 ---
disconnected from City government and civic life. This leads to when they
eventually become adults to have no idea how to contribute to society. We want
to create opportunities for students to work with people in the community that
benefits the community and is rewarding. This internship would provide
a
chance to gain expertise
in different workplaces, and develop and learn skills
needed for a job in public service. RESUME HYPE!!!
The City is limited in staff resources; the amount of staff doesn'
t align with the
needs of the community. Not to mention the budget is constrained, so we can'
t
add full-
time salary positions, which limits our services, programs, and access to
facilities, and therefore our help to society! Recruiting teenagers to do our paid
internship could help resolve and alleviate some of the staff capacity
challenges.
Proposed Youth -Friendly Structure:
Serving young people in high school, college and recent graduates
Paid or stipend -based internships/
fellowships
Semester -long commitments (estimate 3 months) with the possibility of
extension
Hours after school and on the weekends
We are asking the City Council to support this as a priority goal during the 2024-
2025
Blue Skies Session on February 3rd. We will be in attendance to present this idea
and look forward to your discussion. If you have any questions please reach out to
us.
Signed,

--- page 19 ---
From:
Clerk
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Christina
Horrisberger; 
Denise Garcia
Subject:
FW: Request from SMYCA and SMCAT, RE: February
3 Blue Skies Session
Date:
Wednesday, 
January 24, 2024 12: 06: 09 PM
Attachments:
image001.png
image002. png
image003.png
image004. png
image005.png
image006. png
image007.png
Dear City Council,
Please see the below public comment submitted for the Blue Skies meeting.
Best wishes,
Martin
Martin McTaggart
Deputy City Clerk | City Clerk’ s Department
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7044 | mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
From: Robert Whitehair < robertwhitehair2@gmail.
com> 
Sent: Wednesday, January 24, 2024 11:54 AM
To: Clerk < clerk@cityofsanmateo. org>
Cc: 
Subject: Request from SMYCA and SMCAT, RE: February 3 Blue Skies Session
Dear Mayor Lisa Diaz Nash and Members of the San Mateo City Council,
We write to you on behalf of the San Mateo Climate Action Team and San Mateo
Youth Climate Action. Our two organizations represent more than 200 San Mateo
residents, students, and business owners, united in our concern about the climate
crisis. 
Those of us who are too young to vote are growing increasingly concerned about the
state of a world we’re soon to be responsible for, and the need to implement bold
solutions to global climate change. For us, taking climate action is not about doing the
right thing” but about creating a safe future where we won’t have to worry about
extreme natural disasters, air pollution, or not having access to clean water. We voice
our concerns to you - our City’s top leaders - time and again because, without the
ability to vote, it is our only form of advocating for a livable world. 
Those of us in older generations support these pleas for strong climate leadership.

--- page 20 ---
We are already experiencing severe climate impacts in our own lifetimes, but younger
generations will bear the brunt of this frightening burden, much longer than us. We
stand with the youth of our community in advocating for a livable world - for our
children, for our grandchildren, for our youngest generations, and for our future
generations.
Unfortunately, there is no time to push off our requests to some future date. With the
most recent IPCC report, we know the writing is on the wall: the time to prevent
such worsening climate change impacts is now.  
The good news is that cities can have a major impact in fighting climate change by
eliminating fossil fuels from our City’s investment portfolio, building stock,
transportation and other equipment. As you set your agenda for 2024, we urge you
to be part of the climate change solution by adopting the following objectives
for FY 2024- 2025:
1. Adopt a Socially Responsible Investment ( SRI) Policy that Ends Direct
Financing and Investment in Fossil Fuels, and Further Study Options for an
Environmental, Social, and Governance ( ESG) Policy. 
2.            
Continue Strong Implementation of the “ Decarbonization Objective”
Adopted by Council in 2022: “ Establish policies to decarbonize and electrify existing
buildings and eliminate natural gas use by 2030.” 
3.            
Complete all High and Medium- High Priority Projects in the 2020 Bicycle
Master Plan and the Pedestrian Master Plan. 
4.            
Assist Landscaping Professionals with an Equitable Transition Away from
Gas Equipment.
Please see the discussion of these requests beneath our signature line.
We are running out of time to solve the climate crisis. There is not a single year to
spare. San Mateo has been a climate action leader, and as grandparents, mothers,
fathers, and youth, we urge you to continue your climate leadership as you set
your objectives for FY 2024-25. In addition to benefiting our own community, your
climate leadership will set an important example for other cities to follow.   
Finally, on behalf of our organizations, we thank you for the opportunity at the
upcoming February 3, 2024 San Mateo City Council goal setting meeting to deliver for
your consideration a joint presentation. 
In Partnership,
on behalf of the San Mateo Climate Action
Team
on behalf of San Mateo Youth Climate Action

--- page 21 ---
DISCUSSION
1.  Socially Responsible Investment & ESG
In alignment with past Council objectives, study sessions and discussions, we urge
the Council to adopt a Socially Responsible Investment ( SRI) Policy that ends
direct financing and investment in fossil fuels, and to further study options for
implementing an Environmental, Social, and Governance ( ESG) policy.
Implementing an SRI policy will align San Mateo with the County’ s Investment Policy
as of 2023.*
Furthermore, below are two recommendations to be considered concurrently:
bank divestment and ESG policy, with the latter being a stronger action. If an
ESG policy cannot be brought forth as a potential objective to the council, then an
SRI regarding bank divestment should.
A.            
Bank divestment: There are a number of corporate bonds that the council holds
that contribute directly to financing fossil fuel projects, most significantly being the
city’s bonds in the Royal Bank of Canada, JP Morgan Chase & Co, Morgan Stanley,
and Bank of America ( Information on these investments are from an information
packet provided to the council in March of 2023). These banks are major fossil fuel
financers, with JP Morgan Chase & Co being the largest financier of fossil fuels in the
world with 434 billion invested just since the Paris Agreement was signed in 2016
Banking on Climate Chaos Fossil Fuel Finance Report 2023). The city should
approach these banks with an SRI lens, creating an exclusionary list of banks
depending on their extent of fossil fuel financing, adding and removing
depending on their behavior.
B. ESG-policy: ESG is the most comprehensive approach to dealing with investing
in a manner that will create as limited of an impact on the environment as
possible. The Council learned about potential ESG approaches at a 2023 City
Council Study Session as a result of the 2022-2023 FY Objective # 34. In this
Study Session, one of the main concerns raised by Council was the subjective
nature of ESG. While this is a fair concern, we feel that ESG was completely
abandoned due to its complexity and that more resources should be directed
toward fairly evaluating ESG. The Council should continue its work on
implementing 2022- 23 Objective # 34 and retain ESG consulting advisors
in connection therewith. 
See excerpt regarding SRI objective, from the 2023 San Mateo County Investment
Policy Statement, approved by the Board on January 17, 2023, located at the end of
this Discussion section. 
2.  Continue Strong Implementation of the “ Decarbonization
Objective”

--- page 22 ---
Adopted by Council in 2022:  “ Establish policies to decarbonize and electrify
existing buildings and eliminate natural gas use by 2030.” 
Please continue your leadership to rapidly decarbonize our City’s building stock
through an equitable approach. Specifically, we request that you provide sufficient
funding, community education/ outreach, and additional sustainability staff in the City
Manager’ s office and in other city departments, as well as legal review, to fully vet
and implement the strongest policy directions adopted at the January 17, 2024 Study
Session of the City Council. These can be summarized as:
A.            
Follow state and BAAQMD mandates for Zero NOx in 2027 and 2029.
B.            
Adopt new building reach codes.
C.           
Require electric replacements of fossil gas equipment, ahead of the 2027/2029
BAAQMD requirements.
D.           
Establish Building Performance Standards for electricity usage in commercial
buildings.
E.            
Adopt an electric first policy for City facilities, including funding. 
F.            
Smooth the building permit process for replacing fossil gas equipment with
electric alternatives.
G.           
Establish a fund to assist homeowners and businesses with electrification.
H.           
Prioritize electrification efforts in the areas of San Mateo historically affected by
pollution. 
To the extent that Options A and C are mutually inconsistent ( i.e., only one of them
can be adopted), we urge Council to adopt Option C.
3.  Complete all High and Medium- High Priority Projects in the 2020 Bicycle
Master Plan and the Pedestrian Master Plan
We urge the Council to expand its efforts to reduce harmful emissions from
transportation. To that end, we request that the Council prioritize the completion, with
full funding, of all high and medium- high priority projects in the 2020 Bicycle Master
Plan and the Pedestrian Master Plan, as set forth in the 2023-2024 City Council
Objectives. 
We believe that the best way to implement these projects is to publicly adopt a
Capital Improvement Plan showing funding, year the design will begin, and year
construction will begin. We are aware that there is a shortfall in funds. But we are
asking for a full project implementation calendar with funding requirements including
short falls. This we believe is the best way to implement the Bicycle- Pedestrian
Master Plan. 
4. Assist Landscaping Professionals with an Equitable Transition away from
Gas Equipment
According to the California Air Resources Board, more air pollution is created in
California from landscaping equipment than from cars. We salute the work of the City

--- page 23 ---
of San Mateo in the past year related to the elimination of gas leaf blowers.
Supporting a rebate program is a fair, equitable and small first step toward reducing
the burden on small businesses of eliminating gas leaf blowers.  We appreciate how
the City has demonstrated its commitment to the program by purchasing electric
backpack leaf blowers for some City Staff.  
We ask that the City ramp up the program by holding an additional study session in
the spring that highlights how successful the current efforts have been. Given that
sales of new gas-powered leaf blowers and other small off road engines are slated to
end on July 1, 2024, we ask the City to adopt a specific objective relating to the end
of use of gas-powered equipment. 
We recognize, however, that there are many hurdles that must be overcome before
small gas-powered equipment can be eliminated: 
A.            
Dialogue with the impacted community of small business owner landscapers is
essential to avoid placing the entire burden on the backs of a historically vulnerable
population.
B.            
Dialogue with homeowners who can support battery electrification of
landscaping equipment by making fully charged batteries available at their homes.
C.           
Learn whether/ how landscapers may need some additional wiring at their
homes, in order to safely charge replacement batteries overnight.
D.           
Determine how the program will be monitored for compliance.
We ask for the City of San Mateo to actively participate in this dialogue process
through outreach to landscaping businesses and affected homeowners.
We further ask that a road map be created to provide a date when gas-powered
equipment will no longer be allowed to operate in San Mateo.  
Finally, we ask that, as a demonstration of its commitment, the City of San Mateo
include funds in the budget to fully electrify the landscaping tools of City employees.
SRI Investment Objective of San Mateo County 2023 Investment Policy Statement -
Page 3: 
D. Socially Responsible Investment Objectives
In addition to and while complying with California Government Code provisions that
regulate the investment of public funds ( which require that, when managing and
investing public funds, the objectives shall be, primarily, to safeguard principal of
invested funds; secondarily, to meet the liquidity needs of the local government; and
third, to achieve a return on invested funds), the County Treasurer recognizes the
importance of socially responsible investing. The Treasurer will consider and promote
investment in authorized issuers that display adherence to strong environmental,
social and governance ( ESG) principles, including but not limited to, environmental
sustainability, social and economic justice, and good corporate governance. The

--- page 24 ---
Treasurer will forego investments in fossil fuel issuers if able to do so while complying
with all legal and fiduciary mandates, including with respect to safety of principal,
liquidity, and return on invested funds. The Treasurer will seek to invest in a socially
responsible manner by considering investments in corporate issuers that meet
designated risk score thresholds, as provided by an independent organization or
organizations that supply analytical research, ratings, and data to institutional
investors regarding issuers’ environmental, social and governance ( ESG) practices.
Issuers will be reviewed and confirmed against these thresholds on a periodic basis,
and any investments in issuers that fall below designated thresholds may be sold or
held to maturity.” ( San Mateo County Investment Policy 2023)

--- page 25 ---
Patrice Olds
From: 
Richard Delaney
Sent: 
Thursday, February 1, 2024 11:
57 AM
To: 
Clerk
Subject: 
Blue Sky Meeting Comments
Hello City Clerk and City Council
Please include these comments for my suggestions as to what
I would like to see for
upcoming Council priorities. I do NOT want historical preservation to apply to all
of Baywood or any other district. This would bind me forever with something
I do not
want. I was never asked and my house has none of the classic features. It has not been
designed by anybody famous
or lived in by any famous people. It has been assumed
to
be original by the application. It is not.
t

--- page 26 ---
Patrice Olds
From: 
shawn
fahrenbruch.
net
Sent: 
Thursday, February 1, 2024 10:
50 AM
To: 
Clerk
Subject: 
Blue Sky Meeting Comments
Hello City Clerk,
Please include these comments
for my suggestions
as to what
I would like to see for upcoming Council
priorities. It is my understanding
that we can comment
on this up through Feb 2.
1. 
I do NOT want historical preservation
as a priority. This would
be divisive and is an assault on
private property rights. Stop this historical preservation nonsense.
2. I would like to see smoking of cigarettes and marijuana completely eliminated downtown. Even
with a 20' separation from restaurants, the smell still ruins the flavor of meals.
3. 
I would
like to see incentives to bring more mom/
pop shops back to San Mateo. Not just
restaurants, but local craftsman such as light metal fabrication, shoe cobblers, porcelain
painting, .. . you name it. Make life easy for small businesses.
4. I would like to see more emphasis
on creating an on-
line tracking system for citizens to track the
progress
on public service maintenance
requests. At present, it is not possible to track the status
of a request to get a stop sign fixed, or public trees trimmed, or fixes to infrastructure. You just put
in a call and then
never have any idea if somebody is working on it ... or ignoring it.
5. I would like to see a transparent goal or financial plan for a 5, 10, 20 year outlook so that this can
be compared against other wish - list items.
Thank you for this opportunity to comment.
Shawn Fahrenbruch
i

--- page 27 ---
Patrice Olds
From: 
Shirley Melnicoe-
Sent: 
Monday, January 29, 2024 1:
27 PM
To: 
Clerk
Subject: 
Blue Sky Goal Setting
Dear Council Members: 
January 29, 2024
As
a long-
time
San Mateo
resident, I am concerned
about an omission in the Blue Sky Goal Setting
Document. There
is a statement
that the " historic resources" initiative
is currently captured
in current
priorities and/
or proposed priorities but I could not find it in the document. To plan for the future, I think
we
need to look at the current resources of our community
and we need to ensure
their protection so that they
continue to exist and remain as a resource in our future. I moved to San Mateo because of its historic
downtown
and the lovely neighborhoods
with classic and historic homes and gardens. Such resources need to
be preserved
as they contribute
to San Mateo'
s identity, character, and value. Again, I do not see this
reflected in the current Blue Sky planning document for San Mateo and
I strongly suggest the historic
preservation
component be added.
Please add language to acknowledge
and strive to protect historical resources, properties and contributors
with distinct architectural
traits for current and future generations.
Thank you.
Shirley Melnicoe
Resident
1

--- page 28 ---
From: {
Cathy Murdock
To: 
City Council (
San Mateo); Clerk
Subject: 
Blue Sky, Support for the Library Updates — Coffee!
Date: 
Thursday, February 1, 2024 7:
00:
28
PM
I'
m excited about all of the possible library updates— 
Including
an update of the children'
s
section patio!
My neighbors and I love the Blue Sky initiative to bring the coffee shop to the first floor! We
visited the third floor coffee shop regularly to get a cafe latte and a light brunch. We were
disappointed
that it closed down. A lot of people I mention this to did not even realize it was
there on the third floor!
There are many elderly people and others ( myself included), who would truly enjoy and
patronize the coffee shop being on the first floor of the library. El Camino is often a barrier
for pedestrians
on the west side— 
particularly the elderly.
There are limited spaces to offer community gatherings in walking distancethe library is
THE place
on the west side of ECR.
My only suggestion is to have a coffee shop open earlier to maximize the income during
regular coffee -getting hours ( 5-
11+ 
am) —definitely earlier than the library
is open. I live right
there and can tell you there are plenty of people out and about at 5 am who would patronize
a
coffee shop there! ©
A lot of our youth homework clubs who met at the 3rd floor coffee shop would appreciate it
being open after school
as well.
Having it open and accessible after studio concerts, presentations, and events would contribute
to its sustainability.
If the plan is to build it on either end ( the used bookstore area or the children'
s play area); it
seems there could be a way to block the library off during
non - library hours.
Thank you for the opportunity
for the community
to share their input! I am very excited to
learn more!
Kathy Murdock
111 West 3rd
Sent from my IPhone

--- page 29 ---
February 1, 2024
San Mateo Foster City School District Board of Trustees
Division
of Transportation
Planning
1170 Chess Drive San Mateo, CA
94404
City Council Members of Foster City
610 Foster City Blvd, Foster City, CA 94404
City Council Members of San Mateo
330 20th st, San Mateo, CA 94403
Dear City Council Members of Foster City, San Mateo and Trustees,
We are writing on behalf of the San Mateo Foster City School District ( SMFCSD) Parent Teacher Associations
PTA) in light of several recent collisions that have endangered our children'
s lives. On four separate occasions
at North Shoreview, Lead Elementary, San Mateo
High, and Foster City Elementary, students were hit by
vehicles, or had near misses while traveling on foot or bike.
We do not want this surge of preventable injuries
to continue. We are calling on the SMFCSD Board of
Trustees to commit to a Vision
Zero policy and demand the cities of San Mateo
and Foster City do the same.
Also a task force to determine actionable steps to prevent further student injuries on the streets near our
schools should immediately
be created.
These recent injuries highlight a growing
concern among
our community
for the well-
being of our students
who walk, scoot, or bike to school. Additional
cars
on our roads, and distracted or aggressive driving, make
getting
to school more challenging than
ever. Our cities
can make infrastructure improvements, such as
extended
red curbing, additional
stop signs and crosswalks, bike lanes, as well
as other solutions. We can also
support safety with driver, parent, and student education
and more traffic enforcement
around our schools..
Every student
and their caregiver deserve peace of mind knowing their child can safely travel
to and from
school
Since the start of the school year we have seen a pedestrian killed, a dog killed, and three different children
hit by drivers
in the City of San Mateo. Several
of these incidents occurred
on the way to school or
near
campuses:

--- page 30 ---
On Sept 8 a driver killed a pedestrian crossing at the intersection of East Hillsdale Boulevard
and
Curtiss Street near George
Hall Elementary
On Oct 10, a 5th grader and their dad were hit at 36th and Michael Ave. They were in the crosswalk,
had taken precautions
before crossing, and were still hit. Both were physically ok and Laurel
leadership was called to the scene.
On Oct 11
a driver hit a student walking to school on Norfolk St and Cottage Grove Ave near Lead
Elementary School
On Oct 18, a driver hit a child biking to school at the intersection
of Quebec St and 2nd Ave
in North
Shoreview. He was on his way to school in the morning, just 5 blocks away from North Shoreview
Montessori
Elementary. The driver stopped to ask if the child was okay, but since he was in shock, he
didn'
t feel the pain. Then the driver left and didn'
t leave any contact information. The student has a
broken collar bone.
On Oct 24 a driver almost
hit a child and parent crossing the crosswalk at Hillsdale Blvd and Edison St.
On Nov 7, a driver hit a 13 -year -old walking
in the crosswalk on Delaware, adjacent to San Mateo
High School.
On Nov 16, a driver weaved between children and the crossing guard nearly hit a child in a crosswalk
at Edgewater Blvd on Beach Park Park, adjacent to Foster City Elementary.
In Nov at Audubon Elementary, a crossing guard while
in the crosswalk with children present,
wearing
a fluorescent
vest and carrying a red STOP sign, was hit by a car on Gull Avenue.
Each PTA President who signed below took this important safety issue to their school'
s general PTA meeting to
gain approval from the members. Collectively
we represent
thousands of families in Foster City and San
Mateo who want safer streets. We cannot
wait. Please support our request now, while there
is time to
prevent any further injuries — or worse.
Sincerely,
will vote
2.1.
20241
Audubon
Elementary PTA President
Bayside Academy PTA President

--- page 31 ---
Whitney Argyres and Amy Radovich
approved
1.
26.
2024
Baywood Elementary PTA Co - Presidents
Beach Park Elementary PTA President
Beresford Elementary PTA President
will vote in March)
Borel Middle School PTA President
Emily Brandt approved 1.
18.
2024
Bowditch Middle School PTA President
Brewer Island Elementary PTA President
College Park Elementary PTA President
Natalia Guillen approved
1.
23.
2024
Fiesta Gardens Elementary
PTA President
Foster City Elementary PTA President
Zachary
Horn approved
1.
17.
2024
George Hall Elementary PTA President
Highlands Elementary PTA President

--- page 32 ---
Jillian Ma, 1/
25/
24
approved
1.22.
2024
Laurel Elementary PTA President
Laura Long approved 1.
10.
2024
LEAD Elementary
PTA President
Meadow Heights Elementary PTA President
Amardeep
Prasad approved 1.
30.
2024
North Shoreview
PTA President
Carley Seiff
approved
1.
23.
2024
Parkside Elementary & Middle School PTA President
San Mateo Park Elementary PTA President
Bry Myers approved
1.
5.
2024
Sunnybrae Elementary PTA President

--- page 33 ---
ETHICS SAN MATEO
DEDICATED
TO TRUTH, TRANSPARENCY AND ETHICAL
CONDUCT IN CITY GOVERNMENT
Ethics San Mateo Presentation
Blue Sky Session
3 February 2024
Honorable Council Members
and Staff,
Ethics San Mateo appreciates
these few minutes to recognize that our city leadership is
embracing the need for Rules, Codes of Conduct and Ethics Standards. The efforts you and city
staff are making can become
a cornerstone
in the building of public trust.
I'
d like to quote from an article by Rod Gould in Western City Magazine, a publication of the
League of California Cites'.
It is often said that ethics is thefoundation ofpublic service and essentialfor
public trust and confidence in public officials."
As a California Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation, we have one focus, and it is in direct
alignment with this concept. That focus, and our mission, is:
To lead and support efforts by the residents of San Mateo to ensure
our city is
served according to the highest level of ethical standards and behavior.
As you consider the topics being discussed today and decide whether
a specific element should
be prioritized, and at what level of priority, please consider the following which
we strongly
believe will assist you in reaching what should be your top priority, public trust. Without that,
many of the objectives of the democratic
process become more difficult, if not impossible, to
achieve.
The cornerstone of giving San Mateo residents a predominant voice in discretionary decisions
must be established. It is not enough to conduct public outreach only to stay on an unwavering
course of action upon which significant objections
are raised by residents. Not only should the
city hear, but also listen to and with an unbiased mind fully consider the residents' voices. Find
and employ methods to gather credible information as to the majority will of the residents. Don'
t
just listen to the loudest voices, hear what may be the soft speech of a majority.
Ethics San Mateo believes that there are many special interest groups that perform much -needed
work and are widely lauded. However, we are concerned about the methods used by some groups
1 Gould, Rod, Beyond Ethics: Establishing
a Code of Conduct
to Guide Your Council, Western City ( December
1,
2019)
Ethics
San Mateo - A California Nonprofit
Public
Benefit Corporation
www.
EthicsSanMateo.
com

--- page 34 ---
in influencing city government
and shouting down opposing thoughts. We ask that you be
willing to recognize when a special interest group, and YES - Ethics San Mateo is one, is
involved in the arguments for or against
an item before you. Evaluate the arguments on their
merits, not the tone or loudness. Be aware of, and consider, who benefits from decisions. Look
beyond the surface.
We urge you to engage with well -established organizations working in the field of government
ethics to develop the ethics standards and Codes of Conduct. These organizations are the experts,
they have no stake in specific issues the city is facing. Ethics San Mateo does not claim to have
the level of detailed expertise, nor the desire, to be contracted to advise the city. We have been,.
and will continue to, provide information about our viewpoints
to city leadership and the
residents of San Mateo. Although carefully researched and opined, our recommendations
are
developed from a layperson'
s perspective; the city should depend on experts.
Finally, please set rules and standards that are comprehensive, clear, enforceable and that carry
consequences for violations. There should be no ambiguity
as to intent and consequences.
In closing, once again we recognize the hard work you have done, as well as the uphill path in
front of you. We urge you to establish the destination
towards which you toil, and decide the end
goal; as without knowing where you are going, you will simply wander about aimlessly.
Thank you!
Ethics
San Mateo - A California Nonprofit Public Benefit
Corporation
www.
EthicsSanMateo.
com

--- page 35 ---
1
Council
Information Packet
February 3rd, 2023 " Blue Sky" Goal Setting Workshop
Compiled by the San Mateo Climate Action
Team and San Mateo Youth Climate Action
Team

--- page 36 ---
2
Image 1: Data on San Mateo'
s Bank Fossil Fuel Financing
Bank
Total financing of
fossil fuels since
2016 in USD
Ranking compared to other
banks in regards to fossil fuel
financing*
of San
Mateo
Investment
Portfolio
JP Morgan
Chase & Co
434.
154 Billion
1
0.
29
Bank of America
279.
730
Billion
4
0.
64
Royal Bank of Canada
252.
48
Billion
5
0.
78
Toronto
Dominion
Holdings
173.
201 Billion
10
0.
62
Morgan Stanley
153.
430 Billion
12
0.
36
Bank of Montreal
Chicago
138.
380
Billion
15
0.
15
US Bancorp
47.
172 Billion
34
0.
23
Total: 3.07%
Being ranked first means that bank is the largest fossil fuel financier. Since 2016, the number one fossil
fuel financier has been JP Morgan Chase & Co whom San Mateo
is currently invested in.
All data on the banks
was taken from the Banking on Climate Chaos 2023
Fossil Fuel Finance
Report. Data
on San Mateo'
s investment
in each respective bank was taken from the information packet provided to
council at their March 6, 2023 study session on ESG.

--- page 37 ---
3
mage 2: Screenshot from 2020 Climate Action Plan
BE 2: All -electric existing buildings
Although most existing buildings already have natural gas infrastructure and natural gas devices installed, these
systems
can be converted
to all -electric. Electric appliances that replace natural gas -powered
models are highly
efficient, readily available, and
cost-
effective. Many buildings
can install these appliances with simple electric
wiring and panel upgrades, if upgrades are required at all. The cost of converting existing buildings to mostly
or all -electric can be further reduced if the electrification
is done
as part of a larger retrofit activity.
2030
2040
2045
GHG reduction ( MTCO2e)
Recommended actions:
102,
210
184,
610
221,
260
Encourage
residents
and businesses to purchase electric technologies ( e.g., 
air source heat pumps, hea!
pump water
heaters, electric dryers, and electric
stoves).
Encourage residents
and
businesses
to upgrade electric panels to accommodate
electric technologies
including solar PV, battery storage, air source heat pumps, heat pump
water
heaters, electric dryers, and
electric stoves.
Support training
and
outreach
to residents, businesses, contractors, vendors, and
installers
about
preferable electric equipment replacement technologies.

--- page 38 ---
4
Image 3: Incentives Screenshot
Accessed via: https://
incentives.
switchison.
org/
residents/
incentives)
or) .
t
THE SWITCH
IS ON
INCENTIVE
LOOKUP FOR
CUSTOMERS
INCENTIVE TYPE
RELATE
TAX
CREDIT
INANCING
NDUCTION
LENDING
PROGRAMS
BUILDING
TYPE
SINGLE-
FAMILY
MULTI-
rAMILY
EQUIPMENT TYPE
Choose
INCOME QUALIFYING?
NO
YES
WHO CAN APPLY?
CONTRACTORS
HOMLOV/
HLRS
RENTERS
Hone
Function
CONNECT
ENJOY
with trusted
the benefits
or your
contractors. 
In out
new
electric
contractor
directory , 
appliance.
30 Incentives
Available For 94402
BOW
MIMED
LEARN
HORS
aA1!
J,
GET
RI:
OATE
Save $ 200 Per Unit - Rebate
On Heat
Pumps. Ducted ( Central Air. HVAC), Heat
Pumps, Ductless ( Mini -Split)
High
efficiency
split
central
air conditioner
a IYSEER2
High efficiency
packaged
central
air eondilionerx
I6 SEER2
Must
reelecn
en lilt
I nail z.,
nc'
aled
with existing central
AC
Contractors ( 
Single-
family
Save Up To S1,
000
Per Home - Rebate On
Insulation
And Ductwork
Attic
insulation
a R-
Alt1Wclndes
attic
air sealing)