--- page 1 ---
13.
Flock Safety Platform – Purchase Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to approve the use of an alternative purchasing procedure; approve an agreement with Flock
Group Inc., to purchase Flock Safety Platform products and services for automated license plate reader
technology for a five-year term in the cumulative amount of $501,350; and authorize the Chief of Police to
execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause
a physical change in the environment. ( Public Resources Code Section 21065.)

--- page 2 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www. cityofsanmateo.
org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: {{ section. name}}
Account Number: 10-5131
File ID: {{ item. tracking_ number}}
TO: 
City Council
FROM: 
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY: 
Police Department
MEETING DATE: 
August 21, 2023
SUBJECT:
Flock Safety Platform – Purchase Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the use of an alternative purchasing procedure; approve an agreement with Flock Group
Inc., to purchase Flock Safety Platform products and services for automated license plate reader technology for a five-year
term in the cumulative amount of $501,350; and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the agreement in substantially
the form presented. 
BACKGROUND: 
The San Mateo Police Department continually seeks to enhance crime detection and solving capabilities by leveraging
advancements in technology. Automated license plate reader ( LPR) technology has been used by the Police Department to
solve crime and provide evidence to prosecutors since 2011. The use of LPR technology has become an industry standard
and a best practice for criminal investigations. 
LPR technology is rapidly advancing and has become less expensive, making it more readily accessible to cities, 
homeowner and neighborhood associations, shopping centers, and business districts. Through the San Mateo County
Police Chiefs and Sheriffs Association, staff became aware of LPR technology provided by Flock Safety. Flock leases a
turnkey system, which includes the physical equipment and software at a cost of approximately $ 2,500 per unit, per year. 
The proposed contract is for a five-year term, for the provision of forty LPRs, to be deployed in areas vulnerable to
property crimes and gang-related activity throughout the City. A key strength of the technology is that investigators can
access near real-time information to quickly deploy officers in the field to locate and apprehend criminals. Having more
locations with LPR technology enhances this capability. Additionally, it is anticipated the presence of this technology may
deter those seeking to participate in criminal activity.  
Raw LPR data is not stored or retained by SMPD. Staff utilizes the strictest industry standards with respect to how data is
accessed and by whom. We have a records sharing agreement with the Northern California Regional Intelligence Center
NCRIC), along with all of the other allied County law enforcement agencies, to ensure adherence to these strict standards. 
Although Flock Systems is a private company, they do not have access to identifying information for the LPR image data
they are collecting through their devices. This raw LPR data is retained on their servers for up to 30 days. The raw LPR data
is uploaded directly to the NCRIC within 30 days, where it is stored and managed based on stringent federally- constructed
policies. Access to the NCRIC data is strictly regulated and is for law enforcement personnel only. The LPR data stored on
NCRIC servers is automatically deleted after one year per Federal guidelines, unless it is part of an ongoing investigation. 
Once the LPR data is deleted, it cannot be retrieved.  SMPD is in compliance with the law, and maintains a webpage
explaining our commitment to privacy and strict procedures in the use of LPRs, and have made policies and usage statistics
available to the public on the website.  
http://

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Staff wishes to enter into a multi-year contract to secure services for a five-year term at the current prices which are
expected to go up next year.  The cost for the first year is $101,350, with subsequent years costing $100,000 annually.
Staff requests approval of the purchase pursuant to SMMC 3.60.070(h)(3), which allows the Council to use any purchasing
process that is in the best interest of the City. Flock has emerged as a leader in this industry due to product affordability
and ease of use.  The Flock technology is used by a majority of neighboring cities including:  Atherton, Brisbane, 
Burlingame, Colma, Daly City, East Palo Alto, Foster City, Menlo Park, Millbrae, Redwood City, San Bruno, South San
Francisco, in addition to several neighboring counties.  The Flock product meets the Police Department’ s interest in that it
will not require changes in how we train, operate, or manage data.  Staff has been pleased with Flock Group Inc.' s
responsiveness and customer service.  For these reasons, staff believes it to be in the best interest of the City to proceed
with this agreement.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding for the first year of this agreement is included in the Police Department’ s FY2023- 24 operating budget.  Future
costs will be incorporated into the 2024- 26 Business Plan.   
ENVIRONMENTAL
DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical
change in the environment. ( Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.
org
650) 522-7600
Matthew Earnshaw, Lieutenant
mearnshaw@cityofsanmateo.
org
650) 522-7627

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ ( 2023)
APPROVING AN AGREEMENT WITH FLOCK GROUP, INC. 
FOR FLOCK SAFETY PLATFORM
501,350)
WHEREAS, the Police Department wishes to enhance crime detection and crime solving capabilities by
leveraging advancements in automated license plate reader (LPR) technology; and
WHEREAS, the Flock Safety Platform has been identified as the best fit for our agency and staff wishes to
enter into a multi-year contract to secure services at current pricing; and
WHEREAS, Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) provides that the City may use any purchasing
procedures approved by the City Council if the Council makes a finding concurrent with the award that the
procedures are in the best interest of the City for that particular agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES
that: 
1. This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty
that it will not cause a physical change in the environment ( Public Resources Code
Section 21065).
2. Pursuant to Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3), it is found that approval of the
agreement with Flock Group, Inc. to purchase the Flock Safety Platform is in the
City’ s best interest because Flock is a leader in the industry; is used by a majority of
neighboring law enforcement agencies; and it will not require changes in how staff
trains, operates, or manages data.
3. The purchase agreement in the cumulative amount of $501,350 is approved.
4. The Chief of Police is authorized to execute the agreement.

--- page 5 ---
Flock Safety + City of San Mateo
Flock Group Inc. 
1170 Howell Mill Rd, Suite 210
Atlanta, GA 30318
MAIN CONTACT: 
Jake Sherman
jake.sherman@flocksafety. com
8187467444

--- page 6 ---
Company Overview
At Flock Safety, technology unites law enforcement and the communities they serve to eliminate crime and shape a safer future, 
together. We created the first public safety operating system to enable neighborhoods, schools, businesses, and law
enforcement to work together to collect visual, audio, and situational evidence across an entire city to solve and prevent crime.   
Our connected platform, comprised of License Plate Recognition ( LPR), live video, audio detection, and a suite of integrations
AVL, CAD & more), alerts law enforcement when an incident occurs and turns unbiased data into objective answers that
increase case clearance, maximize resources, and reduce crime -- all without compromising transparency or human privacy.  
Join thousands of agencies reducing crime with Flock Safety’ s public safety operating system
2000+  
120
1B+ <
60%* 
communities with private-
public partnerships
incident alerts / minute
1B+ vehicles detected / 
month
60% local crime reduction
in Flock cities
According to a 2019 study conducted by Cobb County Police Department
Introduction
Layer Intelligence to Solve More Crime
The pathway to a safer future looks different for every community. As such, this proposal presents a combination of products
that specifically addresses your public safety needs, geographical layout, sworn officer count, and budget. These components
make up your custom public safety operating system, a connected device network and software platform designed to transform
real-time data into a panoramic view of your jurisdiction and help you zero in on the leads that solve more cases, prevent future
crimes, and foster trust in the communities you serve. 
Software Platform
Flock Safety' s out-of-box software platform collects and makes sense of visual, audio, and situational evidence across your entire
network of devices.

--- page 7 ---
Out-of-Box Software Features
Simplified Search
Get a complete view of all activity tied to one vehicle in your
network of privately and publicly owned cameras. 
The user-friendly search experience allows officers to filter
hours of footage in seconds based on time, location, and
detailed vehicle criteria using patented Vehicle Fingerprint ™ 
technology. Search filters include: 
Vehicle make
Body type
Color
License plates
Partial tags
Missing tags
Temporary tags
State recognition
Decals
Bumper stickers
Back racks
Top racks
National and Local Sharing
Access 1B+ additional plate reads each month without
purchasing more cameras. Solve cross-jurisdiction crimes by
opting into Flock Safety' s sharing networks, including one-to-
one, national, and statewide search networks. Users can also
receive alerts from several external LPR databases: 
California SVS
FDLE
FL Expired Licenses
FL Expired Tags
FL Sanctioned Drivers
FL Sex Offenders
Georgia DOR
IL SOS
Illinois Leads
NCIC
NCMEC Amber Alert
REJIS
CCIC
FBI
Real-time Alerts
Receive SMS, email, and in-app notifications for custom Hot
Lists, NCIC wanted lists, AMBER alerts, Silver alerts, Vehicle
Fingerprint matches, and more. 
Interactive ESRI Map
View your AVL, CAD, traffic, and LPR alerts alongside live on-
scene video from a single interactive map for a birdseye view
of activity in your jurisdiction. 
Vehicle Location Analysis
Visualize sequential Hot List alerts and the direction of travel
to guide officers to find suspect vehicles faster.

--- page 8 ---
Out-of-Box Software Features (Continued) 
Transparency Portal
Establish community trust with a public-facing dashboard
that shares policies, usage, and public safety outcomes
related to your policing technology. 
Insights Dashboard
Access at-a-glance reporting to easily prove ROI, discover
crime and traffic patterns and prioritize changes to your
public safety strategy by using data to determine the most
significant impact. 
Native MDT Application
Download FlockOS to your MDTs to ensure officers never
miss a Hot List alert while out on patrol. 
Hot List Attachments
Attach relevant information to Custom Hot List alerts. Give
simple, digestible context to Dispatchers and Patrol Officers
responding to Hot List alerts so they can act confidently and
drive better outcomes. When you create a custom Hot List
Alert, add case notes, photos, reports, and other relevant
case information. 
Single Sign On (SSO) 
Increase your login speed and information security with Okta
or Azure Single Sign On (SSO). Quickly access critical
information you need to do your job by eliminating the need
for password resets and steps in the log-in process.

--- page 9 ---
License Plate Recognition
The Flock Safety Falcon® LPR camera uses Vehicle Fingerprint™ technology to transform hours of footage into actionable
evidence, even when a license plate isn't visible, and sends Hot List alerts to law enforcement users when a suspect vehicle is
detected.  The Falcon has fixed and location-flexible deployment options with 30% more accurate reads than leading LPR.*  
Results from the 2019 side-by-side comparison test conducted by LA County Sheriff' s Department
Flock Safety Falcon®LPR Camera
Flock Safety Falcon® Flex
Flock Safety Falcon® LR
Fixed, infrastructure- free LPR camera
designed for permanent placement. 
1 Standard LPR Camera
Unlimited LTE data service + Flock OS
platform licenses
1 DOT breakaway pole
Dual solar panels
Permitting, installation, and ongoing
maintenance
Location-flexible LPR camera designed
for fast, easy self-installation, which is
ideal for your ever-changing
investigative needs.  
1 LPR Camera
Unlimited LTE data service + software
licenses
1 portable mount with varying-sized
band clamps
1 Charger for internal battery
1 hardshell carrying case
Long-range, high-speed LPR camera
that captures license plates and Vehicle
Fingerprint data for increasing
investigative leads on high-volume
roadways like highways and interstates.  
1 Long- Rage LPR Camera
Computing device in protective poly
case
AC Power
Permitting, installation, and ongoing
maintenance

--- page 10 ---
Your Flock Safety Team
Flock Safety is more than a technology vendor; we are a partner in your mission to build a safer future. We work with
thousands of law enforcement agencies across the US to build stronger, safer communities that celebrate the hard work of
those who serve and protect. We don’t disappear after contracts are signed; we pride ourselves on becoming an extension of
your hard-working team as part of our subscription service.  
Implementation
Meet with a Solutions Consultant (former LEO) to build a
deployment plan based on your needs. Our Permitting Team
and Installation Technicians will work to get your device
network approved, installed, and activated. 
User Training + Support
Your designated Customer Success Manager will help train
your power users and ensure you maximize the platform, 
while our customer support team will assist with needs as
they arise. 
Maintenance
We proactively monitor the health of your device network. If
we detect that a device is offline, a full-time technician will
service your device for no extra charge.  
Note: Ongoing maintenance does not apply to Falcon Flex
devices.  
Public Relations
Government Affairs
Get support educating your stakeholders, including city
councils and other governing bodies. 
Media Relations
Share crimes solved in the local media with the help of our
Public Relations team.

--- page 11 ---
EXHIBIT A
ORDER FORM
Customer: 
CA - San Mateo PD
Initial Term: 
60 Months
Legal Entity Name: 
City of San Mateo
Renewal Term: 
24 Months
Accounts Payable Email: 
rsianez@cityofsanmateo. org
Payment Terms: 
Net 30
Address: 
200 Franklin Parkway San Mateo, California
94403
Billing Frequency: 
Annual Plan - First Year Invoiced at Signing. 
Retention Period: 
30 Days
Hardware and Software Products
Annual recurring amounts over subscription
term
Item
Cost
Quantity
Total
Flock Safety Platform   $
100,000.00
Flock Safety Flock OS
FlockOS ™ 
Included
1
Included
Flock Safety LPR Products
Flock Safety Falcon ® 
Included
31
Included
Flock Safety Falcon ® 
Included
9
Included
Professional Services and One Time Purchases
Item
Cost
Quantity
Total
One Time Fees
Flock Safety Professional Services
Professional Services - Existing Infrastructure
Implementation Fee $
150.00
9 $
1,350.00
Subtotal Year 1: $
101,350.00
Annual Recurring Subtotal: $
100,000.00
Discounts: $
100, 000. 00
Estimated Tax: $
0.00
Contract Total: $
501,350.00
Taxes shown above are provided as an estimate. Actual taxes are the responsibility
of the Customer. This Agreement will automatically
renew for successive
renewal terms of the greater of one year or the length set forth on the Order Form ( each, a “ Renewal Term”) unless either Party gives the other Party
notice of non-renewal at least thirty (30) days prior to the end of the then-current term.

--- page 12 ---
Billing Schedule
Billing Schedule
Amount ( USD) 
Year 1
At Contract Signing $
101, 350. 00
Annual Recurring after Year 1 $
100,000.00
Contract Total $
501, 350. 00
Tax not included
Discounts
Discounts Applied
Amount ( USD) 
Flock Safety Platform $
100, 000. 00
Flock Safety Add- ons $
0.00
Flock Safety Professional Services $
0.00

--- page 13 ---
Product and Services Description
Flock Safety Platform Items
Product Description
Terms
TemplateErrorExists: XPath expression (// Flock_Safety_ LPR_Products[ text()=' Flock Safety
Falcon ®']) returned more than one node
One-Time Fees
Service Description
Installation
on existing
infrastructure
One- time Professional
Services engagement. Includes site & safety assessment, camera setup & testing, and shipping & handling in accordance
with
the Flock Safety Advanced Implementation
Service Brief. 
Professional Services - Standard
Implementation Fee
One-time Professional Services engagement. Includes site and safety assessment, camera setup and testing, and shipping and handling in accordance
with the Flock Safety Standard Implementation Service Brief. 
Professional
Services - 
Advanced Implementation
Fee
One- time Professional
Services engagement. Includes site & safety assessment, camera setup & testing, and shipping & handling in accordance
with
the Flock Safety Advanced Implementation
Service Brief. 
FlockOS Features & Description
Package: Essentials
FlockOS Features
Description
Community Cameras (Full Access) 
Access to all privately owned Flock devices within your jurisdiction that have been shared with you. 
Unlimited
Users
Unlimited
users for FlockOS
State Network ( LP Lookup Only) 
Allows agencies to look up license plates on all cameras opted in to the statewide Flock network. 
Nationwide Network (LP Lookup Only) 
Allows agencies to look up license plates on all cameras opted in to the nationwide Flock network. 
Direct Share - Surrounding
Jurisdiction ( Full Access) 
Access to all Flock devices owned by law enforcement
that have been directly shared with you. Have
ability to search by vehicle fingerprint, receive hot list alerts, and view devices on the map. 
Time & Location Based Search
Search full, partial, and temporary plates by time at particular device locations
License Plate Lookup
Look up specific license plate location history captured on Flock devices
Vehicle Fingerprint
Search
Search footage using Vehicle Fingerprint™ technology. Access vehicle type, make, color, license plate
state, missing / covered plates, and other unique features like bumper stickers, decals, and roof racks. 
Flock Insights/Analytics page
Reporting tool to help administrators manage their LPR program with device performance data, user and
network audits, plate read reports, hot list alert reports, event logs, and outcome reports. 
ESRI Based Map Interface
Flock Safety’s maps are powered by ESRI, which offers the ability for 3D visualization, viewing of floor
plans, and layering of external GIS data, such as City infrastructure (i.e., public facilities, transit systems, 
utilities), Boundary mapping ( i.e., precincts, county lines, beat maps), and Interior floor plans ( i.e., 
hospitals, corporate campuses, universities) 
Real- Time NCIC Alerts on Flock ALPR Cameras
Alert sent when a vehicle entered into the NCIC crime database passes by a Flock camera
Unlimited Custom Hot Lists
Ability to add a suspect’ s license plate to a custom list and get alerted when it passes by a Flock camera
Custom Hot List Deconfliction
Portal
Allows Flock users to identify overlapping
investigations
and provide the contact information
of opted- in
parties to facilitate collaboration.

--- page 14 ---
By executing this Order Form, Customer represents and warrants that it has read and agrees to all of the
terms and conditions contained in the Master Services Agreement attached. The Parties have executed this
Agreement as of the dates set forth below. 
FLOCK GROUP, INC.  
Customer: City of San Mateo, CA
By: \
FSSignature2\  
By: \
FSSignature1\ 
Name: \
FSFullname2\  
Name: \
FSFullname1\ 
Title: \
FSTitle2\  
Title: \
FSTitle1\ 
Date: \
FSDateSigned2\  
Date: \
FSDateSigned1\ 
PO Number:

--- page 15 ---
Master Services Agreement
This Master Services Agreement ( this “ Agreement”) is entered into by and between Flock
Group, Inc. with a place of business at 1170 Howell Mill Road NW Suite 210, Atlanta, GA 30318
Flock”) and the entity identified in the signature block (“ Customer”) ( each a “ Party,” and
together, the “ Parties”) on this the 21 day of August 2023. This Agreement is effective on the
date of mutual execution (“ Effective Date”). Parties will sign an Order Form (“ Order Form”) 
which will describe the Flock Services to be performed and the period for performance, attached
hereto as Exhibit A. The Parties agree as follows: 
RECITALS
WHEREAS, Flock offers a software and hardware situational awareness solution through
Flock’ s technology platform that upon detection is capable of capturing audio, video, image, and
recording data and provide notifications to Customer (“ Notifications”); 
WHEREAS, Customer desires access to the Flock Services ( defined below) on existing
devices, provided by Customer, or Flock provided Flock Hardware ( as defined below) in order to
create, view, search and archive Footage and receive Notifications, via the Flock Services; 
WHEREAS, Customer shall have access to the Footage in Flock Services. Pursuant to
Flock’ s standard Retention Period ( defined below) Flock deletes all Footage on a rolling thirty
30) day basis, except as otherwise stated on the Order Form. Customer shall be responsible for
extracting, downloading and archiving Footage from the Flock Services on its own storage
devices; and
AGREEMENT
NOW, THEREFORE, Flock and Customer agree that this Agreement, and any Order
Form, purchase orders, statements of work, product addenda, or the like, attached hereto as

--- page 16 ---
exhibits and incorporated by reference, constitute the complete and exclusive statement of the
Agreement of the Parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement, and replace and
supersede all prior agreements, term sheets, purchase orders, correspondence, oral or written
communications and negotiations by and between the Parties. 
1. DEFINITIONS
Certain capitalized terms, not otherwise defined herein, have the meanings set forth or cross-
referenced in this Section 1. 
1.1 “ Anonymized Data” means Customer Data permanently stripped of identifying details and
any potential personally identifiable information, by commercially available standards which
irreversibly alters data in such a way that a data subject ( i.e., individual person or entity) can no
longer be identified directly or indirectly.  
1.2 “ Authorized End User(s)” means any individual employees, agents, or contractors of
Customer accessing or using the Services, under the rights granted to Customer pursuant to this
Agreement. 
1.3 “ Customer Data” means the data, media and content provided by Customer through the
Services. For the avoidance of doubt, the Customer Data will include the Footage.  
1.4. “ Customer Hardware” means the third-party camera owned or provided by Customer and
any other physical elements that interact with the Embedded Software and the Web Interface to
provide the Services. 
1.5 “ Embedded Software” means the Flock proprietary software and/or firmware integrated with
or installed on the Flock Hardware or Customer Hardware.  
1.6 “ Flock Hardware” means the Flock device( s), which may include the pole, clamps, solar
panel, installation components, and any other physical elements that interact with the Embedded
Software and the Web Interface, to provide the Flock Services as specifically set forth in the
applicable product addenda. 
1.7 “ Flock IP” means the Services, the Embedded Software, and any intellectual property or
proprietary information therein or otherwise provided to Customer and/or its Authorized End
Users. Flock IP does not include Footage ( as defined below). 
1.8 “ Flock Network End User(s)” means any user of the Flock Services that Customer authorizes
access to or receives data from, pursuant to the licenses granted herein.

--- page 17 ---
1.9 “ Flock Services” means the provision of Flock’ s software and hardware situational awareness
solution, via the Web Interface, for automatic license plate detection, alerts, audio detection, 
searching image records, video and sharing Footage.  
1.10 “ Footage” means still images, video, audio and other data captured by the Flock Hardware
or Customer Hardware in the course of and provided via the Flock Services.  
1.11 “ Hotlist(s)” means a digital file containing alphanumeric license plate related information
pertaining to vehicles of interest, which may include stolen vehicles, stolen vehicle license plates, 
vehicles owned or associated with wanted or missing person( s), vehicles suspected of being
involved with criminal or terrorist activities, and other legitimate law enforcement purposes. 
Hotlist also includes, but is not limited to, national data (i.e., NCIC) for similar categories, license
plates associated with AMBER Alerts or Missing Persons/ Vulnerable Adult Alerts, and includes
manually entered license plate information associated with crimes that have occurred in any local
jurisdiction. 
1.12 “ Installation Services” means the services provided by Flock for installation of Flock
Services. 
1.13 “ Retention Period” means the time period that the Customer Data is stored within the cloud
storage, as specified in the product addenda. 
1.14 “ Vehicle Fingerprint™” means the unique vehicular attributes captured through Services
such as: type, make, color, state registration, missing/ covered plates, bumper stickers, decals, roof
racks, and bike racks.  
1.15 “ Web Interface” means the website( s) or application( s) through which Customer and its
Authorized End Users can access the Services.

--- page 18 ---
2. SERVICES AND SUPPORT
2.1 Provision of Access. Flock hereby grants to Customer a non-exclusive, non-transferable right
to access the features and functions of the Flock Services via the Web Interface during the Term, 
solely for the Authorized End Users. The Footage will be available for Authorized End Users to
access and download via the Web Interface for the data retention time defined on the Order Form
Retention Period”). Authorized End Users will be required to sign up for an account and select
a password and username (“ User ID”). Customer shall be responsible for all acts and omissions of
Authorized End Users, and any act or omission by an Authorized End User which, including any
acts or omissions of authorized End user which would constitute a breach of this agreement if
undertaken by customer. Customer shall undertake reasonable efforts to make all Authorized End
Users aware of all applicable provisions of this Agreement and shall cause Authorized End Users
to comply with such provisions. Flock may use the services of one or more third parties to deliver
any part of the Flock Services, ( such as using a third party to host the Web Interface for cloud
storage or a cell phone provider for wireless cellular coverage).  
2.2 Embedded Software License. Flock grants Customer a limited, non-exclusive, non-
transferable, non-sublicensable ( except to the Authorized End Users), revocable right to use the
Embedded Software as it pertains to Flock Services, solely as necessary for Customer to use the
Flock Services. 
2.3 Support Services.  Flock shall monitor the Flock Services, and any applicable device health, 
in order to improve performance and functionality. Flock will use commercially reasonable
efforts to respond to requests for support within seventy- two (72) hours. Flock will provide
Customer with reasonable technical and on-site support and maintenance services in-person, via
phone or by email at support@flocksafety. com (such services collectively referred to as “ Support
Services”). 
2.4 Upgrades to Platform. Flock may make any upgrades to system or platform that it deems
necessary or useful to (i) maintain or enhance the quality or delivery of Flock’ s products or
services to its agencies; the competitive strength of, or market for, Flock’ s products or services; 
such platform or system’ s cost efficiency or performance, or (ii) to comply with applicable law. 
Parties understand that such upgrades are necessary from time to time and will not diminish the
quality of the services or materially change any terms or conditions within this Agreement. 
mailto:hello@ﬂocksafety

--- page 19 ---
2.5 Service Interruption. Services may be interrupted in the event that: ( a) Flock’ s provision of
the Services to Customer or any Authorized End User is prohibited by applicable law; (b) any
third-party services required for Services are interrupted; ( c) if Flock reasonably believe Services
are being used for malicious, unlawful, or otherwise unauthorized use; ( d) there is a threat or
attack on any of the Flock IP by a third party; or (e) scheduled or emergency maintenance
Service Interruption”). Flock will make commercially reasonable efforts to provide written
notice of any Service Interruption to Customer, to provide updates, and to resume providing
access to Flock Services as soon as reasonably possible after the event giving rise to the Service
Interruption is cured. Flock will have no liability for any damage, liabilities, losses ( including any
loss of data or profits), or any other consequences that Customer or any Authorized End User may
incur as a result of a Service Interruption. To the extent that the Service Interruption is not caused
by Customer’ s direct actions or by the actions of parties associated with the Customer, the time
will be tolled by the duration of the Service Interruption ( for any continuous suspension lasting at
least one full day). For example, in the event of a Service Interruption lasting five (5) continuous
days, Customer will receive a credit for five (5) free days at the end of the Term. 
2.6 Service Suspension. Flock may temporarily suspend Customer’ s and any Authorized End
User’ s access to any portion or all of the Flock IP or Flock Service if (a) there is a threat or attack
on any of the Flock IP by Customer; ( b) Customer’ s or any Authorized End User’ s use of the
Flock IP disrupts or poses a security risk to the Flock IP or any other customer or vendor of
Flock; ( c) Customer or any Authorized End User is/are using the Flock IP for fraudulent or illegal
activities; ( d) Customer has violated any term of this provision, including, but not limited to, 
utilizing Flock Services for anything other than the Permitted Purpose; or (e) any unauthorized
access to Flock Services through Customer’ s account (“ Service Suspension”). Customer shall not
be entitled to any remedy for the Service Suspension period, including any reimbursement, 
tolling, or credit. If the Service Suspension was not caused by Customer, the Term will be tolled
by the duration of the Service Suspension. 
2.7 Hazardous Conditions. Flock Services do not contemplate hazardous materials, or other
hazardous conditions, including, without limit, asbestos, lead, toxic or flammable substances. In
the event any such hazardous materials are discovered in the designated locations in which Flock
is to perform services under this Agreement, Flock shall have the right to cease work
immediately.

--- page 20 ---
3. CUSTOMER OBLIGATIONS
3.1 Customer Obligations. Flock will assist Customer Authorized End Users in the creation of a
User ID. Authorized End Users agree to provide Flock with accurate, complete, and updated
registration information. Authorized End Users may not select as their User ID, a name that they
do not have the right to use, or any other name with the intent of impersonation. Customer and
Authorized End Users may not transfer their account to anyone else without prior written
permission of Flock. Authorized End Users shall not share their account username or password
information and must protect the security of the username and password. Unless otherwise stated
and defined in this Agreement, Customer shall not designate Authorized End Users for persons
who are not officers, employees, or agents of Customer. Authorized End Users shall only use
Customer- issued email addresses for the creation of their User ID. Customer is responsible for
any Authorized End User activity associated with its account. Customer shall ensure that
Customer provides Flock with up to date contact information at all times during the Term of this
agreement. Customer shall be responsible for obtaining and maintaining any equipment and
ancillary services needed to connect to, access or otherwise use the Flock Services. Customer
shall (at its own expense) provide Flock with reasonable access and use of Customer facilities and
Customer personnel in order to enable Flock to perform Services ( such obligations of Customer
are collectively defined as “ Customer Obligations”). 
3.2 Customer Representations and Warranties. Customer represents, covenants, and warrants
that Customer shall use Flock Services only in compliance with this Agreement and all applicable
laws and regulations, including but not limited to any laws relating to the recording or sharing of
data, video, photo, or audio content.   
4. DATA USE AND LICENSING
4.1 Customer Data. As between Flock and Customer, all right, title and interest in the Customer
Data, belong to and are retained solely by Customer. Customer hereby grants to Flock a limited, 
non-exclusive, royalty- free, irrevocable, worldwide license to use the Customer Data and perform
all acts as may be necessary for Flock to provide the Flock Services to Customer. Flock does not
own and shall not sell Customer Data. 
4.2 Customer Generated Data. Flock may provide Customer with the opportunity to post, 
upload, display, publish, distribute, transmit, broadcast, or otherwise make available, messages,

--- page 21 ---
text, illustrations, files, images, graphics, photos, comments, sounds, music, videos, information, 
content, ratings, reviews, data, questions, suggestions, or other information or materials produced
by Customer (“ Customer Generated Data”). Customer shall retain whatever legally cognizable
right, title, and interest in Customer Generated Data. Customer understands and acknowledges
that Flock has no obligation to monitor or enforce Customer’ s intellectual property rights of
Customer Generated Data. Customer grants Flock a non-exclusive, irrevocable, worldwide, 
royalty- free, license to use the Customer Generated Data for the purpose of providing Flock
Services. Flock does not own and shall not sell Customer Generated Data.  
4.3 Anonymized Data. Flock shall have the right to collect, analyze, and anonymize Customer
Data and Customer Generated Data to the extent such anonymization renders the data non-
identifiable to create Anonymized Data to use and perform the Services and related systems and
technologies, including the training of machine learning algorithms. Customer hereby grants
Flock a non-exclusive, worldwide, perpetual, royalty-free right to use and distribute such
Anonymized Data to improve and enhance the Services and for other development, diagnostic and
corrective purposes, and other Flock offerings. Parties understand that the aforementioned license
is required for continuity of Services. Flock does not own and shall not sell Anonymized Data. 
5. CONFIDENTIALITY; DISCLOSURES
5.1 Confidentiality. To the extent required by any applicable public records requests, each Party
the “ Receiving Party”) understands that the other Party ( the “ Disclosing Party”) has disclosed or
may disclose business, technical or financial information relating to the Disclosing Party’ s
business ( hereinafter referred to as “ Proprietary Information” of the Disclosing Party). 
Proprietary Information of Flock includes non-public information regarding features, functionality
and performance of the Services. Proprietary Information of Customer includes non-public data
provided by Customer to Flock or collected by Flock via Flock Services, which includes but is not
limited to geolocation information and environmental data collected by sensors. The Receiving
Party agrees: ( i) to take the same security precautions to protect against disclosure or unauthorized
use of such Proprietary Information that the Party takes with its own proprietary information, but
in no event less than commercially reasonable precautions, and (ii) not to use ( except in
performance of the Services or as otherwise permitted herein) or divulge to any third person any

--- page 22 ---
such Proprietary Information. The Disclosing Party agrees that the foregoing shall not apply with
respect to any information that the Receiving Party can document ( a) is or becomes generally
available to the public; or (b) was in its possession or known by it prior to receipt from the
Disclosing Party; or (c) was rightfully disclosed to it without restriction by a third party; or (d) 
was independently developed without use of any Proprietary Information of the Disclosing Party. 
Nothing in this Agreement will prevent the Receiving Party from disclosing the Proprietary
Information pursuant to any judicial or governmental order, provided that the Receiving Party
gives the Disclosing Party reasonable prior notice of such disclosure to contest such order. At the
termination of this Agreement, all Proprietary Information will be returned to the Disclosing
Party, destroyed or erased ( if recorded on an erasable storage medium), together with any copies
thereof, when no longer needed for the purposes above, or upon request from the Disclosing
Party, and in any case upon termination of the Agreement. Notwithstanding any termination, all
confidentiality obligations of Proprietary Information that is trade secret shall continue in
perpetuity or until such information is no longer trade secret. 
5.2 Usage Restrictions on Flock IP. Flock and its licensors retain all right, title and interest in
and to the Flock IP and its components, and Customer acknowledges that it neither owns nor
acquires any additional rights in and to the foregoing not expressly granted by this Agreement. 
Customer further acknowledges that Flock retains the right to use the foregoing for any purpose in
Flock’ s sole discretion. Customer and Authorized End Users shall not: (i) copy or duplicate any of
the Flock IP; (ii) decompile, disassemble, reverse engineer, or otherwise attempt to obtain or
perceive the source code from which any software component of any of the Flock IP is compiled
or interpreted, or apply any other process or procedure to derive the source code of any software
included in the Flock IP; (iii) attempt to modify, alter, tamper with or repair any of the Flock IP, 
or attempt to create any derivative product from any of the foregoing; ( iv) interfere or attempt to
interfere in any manner with the functionality or proper working of any of the Flock IP; (v) 
remove, obscure, or alter any notice of any intellectual property or proprietary right appearing on
or contained within the Flock Services or Flock IP; (vi) use the Flock Services for anything other
than the Permitted Purpose; or (vii) assign, sublicense, sell, resell, lease, rent, or otherwise
transfer, convey, pledge as security, or otherwise encumber, Customer’ s rights. There are no
implied rights.

--- page 23 ---
5.3 Disclosure of Footage. Subject to and during the Retention Period, Flock may access, use, 
preserve and/or disclose the Footage to law enforcement authorities, government officials, and/or
third parties, if legally required to do so or if Flock has a good faith belief that such access, use, 
preservation or disclosure is reasonably necessary to comply with a legal process, enforce this
Agreement, or detect, prevent or otherwise address security, privacy, fraud or technical issues, or
emergency situations. 
6. PAYMENT OF FEES
6.1 Billing and Payment of Fees. Customer shall pay the fees set forth in the applicable Order
Form based on the billing structure and payment terms as indicated in the Order Form. If
Customer believes that Flock has billed Customer incorrectly, Customer must contact Flock no
later than thirty (30) days after the closing date on the first invoice in which the error or problem
appeared to receive an adjustment or credit. Customer acknowledges and agrees that a failure to
contact Flock within this period will serve as a waiver of any claim. If any undisputed fee is more
than thirty (30) days overdue, Flock may, without limiting its other rights and remedies, suspend
delivery of its service until such undisputed invoice is paid in full. Flock shall provide at least
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice to Customer of the payment delinquency before exercising
any suspension right.  
6.2 Notice of Changes to Fees. Flock reserves the right to change the fees for subsequent
Renewal Terms by providing sixty (60) days’ notice ( which may be sent by email) prior to the
end of the Initial Term or Renewal Term ( as applicable). 
6.3 Late Fees. If payment is not issued to Flock by the due date of the invoice, an interest penalty
of 1.0% of any unpaid amount may be added for each month or fraction thereafter, until final
payment is made.  
6.4 Taxes. Customer is responsible for all taxes, levies, or duties, excluding only taxes based on
Flock’ s net income, imposed by taxing authorities associated with the order.  If Flock has the
legal obligation to pay or collect taxes, including amount subsequently assessed by a taxing
authority, for which Customer is responsible, the appropriate amount shall be invoice to and paid
by Customer unless Customer provides Flock a legally sufficient tax exemption certificate and
Flock shall not charge customer any taxes from which it is exempt. If any deduction or

--- page 24 ---
withholding is required by law, Customer shall notify Flock and shall pay Flock any additional
amounts necessary to ensure that the net amount that Flock receives, after any deduction and
withholding, equals the amount Flock would have received if no deduction or withholding had
been required.  
7. TERM AND TERMINATION
7.1 Term. The initial term of this Agreement shall be for the period of time set forth on the Order
Form ( the “ Term”). Following the Term, unless otherwise indicated on the Order Form, this
Agreement will automatically renew for successive renewal terms of the greater of one year or the
length set forth on the Order Form ( each, a “ Renewal Term”) unless either Party gives the other
Party notice of non-renewal at least thirty (30) days prior to the end of the then-current term. 
7.2 Termination. Upon termination or expiration of this Agreement, Flock will remove any
applicable Flock Hardware at a commercially reasonable time period. In the event of any material
breach of this Agreement, the non-breaching Party may terminate this Agreement prior to the end
of the Term by giving thirty (30) days prior written notice to the breaching Party; provided, 
however, that this Agreement will not terminate if the breaching Party has cured the breach prior
to the expiration of such thirty (30) day period (“ Cure Period”). Either Party may terminate this
Agreement ( i) upon the institution by or against the other Party of insolvency, receivership or
bankruptcy proceedings, ( ii) upon the other Party's making an assignment for the benefit of
creditors, or (iii) upon the other Party's dissolution or ceasing to do business. In the event of a
material breach by Flock, and Flock is unable to cure within the Cure Period, Flock will refund
Customer a pro-rata portion of the pre-paid fees for Services not received due to such termination. 
7.3 Survival. The following Sections will survive termination: 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8.3, 8.4, 9, 10.1 and
10.6.

--- page 25 ---
8. REMEDY FOR DEFECT; WARRANTY AND DISCLAIMER
8.1 Manufacturer Defect. Upon a malfunction or failure of Flock Hardware or Embedded
Software ( a “ Defect”), Customer must notify Flock’ s technical support team. In the event of a
Defect, Flock shall make a commercially reasonable attempt to repair or replace the defective
Flock Hardware at no additional cost to the Customer. Flock reserves the right, in its sole
discretion, to repair or replace such Defect, provided that Flock shall conduct inspection or testing
within a commercially reasonable time, but no longer than seven ( 7) business days after Customer
gives notice to Flock. 
8.2 Replacements. In the event that Flock Hardware is lost, stolen, or damaged, Customer may
request a replacement of Flock Hardware at a fee according to the reinstall fee schedule
https:// www.flocksafety. com/reinstall- fee-schedule). In the event that Customer chooses not to
replace lost, damaged, or stolen Flock Hardware, Customer understands and agrees that (1) Flock
Services will be materially affected, and (2) that Flock shall have no liability to Customer
regarding such affected Flock Services, nor shall Customer receive a refund for the lost, damaged, 
or stolen Flock Hardware.  
8.3 Warranty. Flock shall use reasonable efforts consistent with prevailing industry standards to
maintain the Services in a manner which minimizes errors and interruptions in the Services and
shall perform the Installation Services in a professional and workmanlike manner. Services may
be temporarily unavailable for scheduled maintenance or for unscheduled emergency
maintenance, either by Flock or by third-party providers, or because of other causes beyond
Flock’ s reasonable control, but Flock shall use reasonable efforts to provide advance notice in
writing or by e-mail of any scheduled service disruption.   
8.4 Disclaimer. THE REMEDY DESCRIBED IN SECTION 8.1 ABOVE IS CUSTOMER’ S
SOLE REMEDY, AND FLOCK’ S SOLE LIABILITY, WITH RESPECT TO DEFECTS. 
FLOCK DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE SERVICES WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR
ERROR FREE; NOR DOES IT MAKE ANY WARRANTY AS TO THE RESULTS THAT
MAY BE OBTAINED FROM USE OF THE SERVICES. EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET
FORTH IN THIS SECTION, THE SERVICES ARE PROVIDED “ AS IS” AND FLOCK
DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
https://www.ﬂocksafety.com/reinstall-fee-
schedule

--- page 26 ---
PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. THIS DISCLAIMER ONLY
APPLIES TO THE EXTENT ALLOWED BY THE GOVERNING LAW OF THE STATE
MENTIONED IN SECTION 10.6. 
8.5 Insurance. Flock will maintain commercial general liability policies as stated in Exhibit B. 
8.6 Force Majeure. Parties are not responsible or liable for any delays or failures in performance
from any cause beyond their control, including, but not limited to acts of God, changes to law or
regulations, embargoes, war, terrorist acts, pandemics ( including the spread of variants), issues of
national security, acts or omissions of third-party technology providers, riots, fires, earthquakes, 
floods, power blackouts, strikes, supply chain shortages of equipment or supplies, financial
institution crisis, weather conditions or acts of hackers, internet service providers or any other
third party acts or omissions. 
9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY; INDEMNITY
9.1 Limitation of Liability. NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING TO THE CONTRARY, 
FLOCK, ITS OFFICERS, AFFILIATES, REPRESENTATIVES, CONTRACTORS AND
EMPLOYEES SHALL NOT BE RESPONSIBLE OR LIABLE WITH RESPECT TO ANY
SUBJECT MATTER OF THIS AGREEMENT OR TERMS AND CONDITIONS RELATED
THERETO UNDER ANY CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY, PRODUCT
LIABILITY, OR OTHER THEORY: ( A) FOR LOSS OF REVENUE, BUSINESS OR
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION; ( B) INCOMPLETE, CORRUPT, OR INACCURATE DATA; (C) 
COST OF PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS, SERVICES OR TECHNOLOGY; ( D) 
FOR ANY INDIRECT, EXEMPLARY, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES; ( E) FOR ANY MATTER BEYOND FLOCK’ S ACTUAL KNOWLEDGE OR
REASONABLE CONTROL INCLUDING REPEAT CRIMINAL ACTIVITY OR INABILITY
TO CAPTURE FOOTAGE; OR (F) FOR ANY AMOUNTS THAT, TOGETHER WITH
AMOUNTS ASSOCIATED WITH ALL OTHER CLAIMS, EXCEED THE FEES PAID
AND/OR PAYABLE BY CUSTOMER TO FLOCK FOR THE SERVICES UNDER THIS
AGREEMENT IN THE TWELVE ( 12) MONTHS PRIOR TO THE ACT OR OMISSION THAT
GAVE RISE TO THE LIABILITY, IN EACH CASE, WHETHER OR NOT FLOCK HAS
BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OF

--- page 27 ---
LIABILITY OF SECTION ONLY APPLIES TO THE EXTENT ALLOWED BY THE
GOVERNING LAW OF THE STATE REFERENCED IN SECTION 10.6. 
NOTWITHSTANDING
ANYTHING TO THE CONTRARY, THE FOREGOING
LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY ( I) IN THE EVENT OF GROSS
NEGLIGENCE OR WILLFUL MISCONDUCT, OR (II) INDEMNIFICATION
OBLIGATIONS. 
9.2 Responsibility. Each Party to this Agreement shall assume the responsibility and liability for
the acts and omissions of its own employees, officers, or agents, in connection with the
performance of their official duties under this Agreement. Each Party to this Agreement shall be
liable for the torts of its own officers, agents, or employees.  
9.3 Flock Indemnity. Flock shall indemnify and hold harmless Customer, its agents and
employees, from liability of any kind, including claims, costs ( including defense) and expenses, 
on account of: (i) any copyrighted material, patented or unpatented invention, articles, device or
appliance manufactured or used in the performance of this Agreement; or (ii) any damage or
injury to property or person directly caused by Flock’ s installation of Flock Hardware, except for
where such damage or injury was caused solely by the negligence of the Customer or its agents, 
officers or employees. 
10. INSTALLATION SERVICES AND OBLIGATIONS
10.1 Ownership of Hardware. Flock Hardware is owned and shall remain the exclusive
property of Flock. Title to any Flock Hardware shall not pass to Customer upon execution of this
Agreement, except as otherwise specifically set forth in this Agreement. Except as otherwise
expressly stated in this Agreement, Customer is not permitted to remove, reposition, re-install, 
tamper with, alter, adjust or otherwise take possession or control of Flock Hardware. Customer
agrees and understands that in the event Customer is found to engage in any of the foregoing
restricted actions, all warranties herein shall be null and void, and this Agreement shall be subject
to immediate termination for material breach by Customer. Customer shall not perform any acts
which would interfere with the retention of title of the Flock Hardware by Flock. Should
Customer default on any payment of the Flock Services, Flock may remove Flock Hardware at
Flock’ s discretion. Such removal, if made by Flock, shall not be deemed a waiver of Flock’ s

--- page 28 ---
rights to any damages Flock may sustain as a result of Customer’ s default and Flock shall have
the right to enforce any other legal remedy or right. 
10.2 Deployment Plan. Flock shall advise Customer on the location and positioning of the Flock
Hardware for optimal product functionality, as conditions and locations allow. Flock will
collaborate with Customer to design the strategic geographic mapping of the location( s) and
implementation of Flock Hardware to create a deployment plan (“ Deployment Plan”). In the
event that Flock determines that Flock Hardware will not achieve optimal functionality at a
designated location, Flock shall have final discretion to veto a specific location, and will provide
alternative options to Customer. 
10.3 Changes to Deployment Plan. After installation of Flock Hardware, any subsequent
requested changes to the Deployment Plan, including, but not limited to, relocating, re-
positioning, adjusting of the mounting, removing foliage, replacement, changes to heights of poles
will incur a fee according to the reinstall fee schedule located at
https:// www.flocksafety. com/reinstall- fee-schedule). Customer will receive prior notice and
confirm approval of any such fees.  
10.4 Customer Installation Obligations. Customer is responsible for any applicable
supplementary cost as described in the Customer Implementation Guide, attached hereto as
Exhibit C (“ Customer Obligations”). Customer represents and warrants that it has, or shall
lawfully obtain, all necessary right title and authority and hereby authorizes Flock to install the
Flock Hardware at the designated locations and to make any necessary inspections or
maintenance in connection with such installation.  
10.5 Flock’ s Obligations. Installation of any Flock Hardware shall be installed in a professional
manner within a commercially reasonable time from the Effective Date of this Agreement. Upon
removal of Flock Hardware, Flock shall restore the location to its original condition, ordinary
wear and tear excepted. Flock will continue to monitor the performance of Flock Hardware for the
length of the Term. Flock may use a subcontractor or third party to perform certain obligations
under this agreement, provided that Flock’ s use of such subcontractor or third party shall not
release Flock from any duty or liability to fulfill Flock’ s obligations under this Agreement.  
11. MISCELLANEOUS
https://www.ﬂocksafety.com/reinstall-fee-
schedule

--- page 29 ---
11.1 Compliance With Laws. Parties shall comply with all applicable local, state and federal
laws, regulations, policies and ordinances and their associated record retention schedules, 
including responding to any subpoena request( s). 
11.2 Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is found to be unenforceable or invalid, that
provision will be limited or eliminated to the minimum extent necessary so that this Agreement
will otherwise remain in full force and effect. 
11.3 Assignment. This Agreement is not assignable, transferable or sublicensable by either Party, 
without prior consent. Notwithstanding the foregoing, either Party may assign this Agreement, 
without the other Party's consent, ( i) to any parent, subsidiary, or affiliate entity, or (ii) to any
purchaser of all or substantially all of such Party's assets or to any successor by way of merger, 
consolidation or similar transaction.  
11.4 Entire Agreement. This Agreement, together with the Order Form( s), the reinstall fee
schedule ( https:// www.flocksafety. com/reinstall- fee-schedule), and any attached exhibits are the
complete and exclusive statement of the mutual understanding of the Parties and supersedes and
cancels all previous or contemporaneous negotiations, discussions or agreements, whether written
and oral , communications and other understandings relating to the subject matter of this
Agreement, and that all waivers and modifications must be in a writing signed by both Parties, 
except as otherwise provided herein. None of Customer’ s purchase orders, authorizations or
similar documents will alter the terms of this Agreement, and any such conflicting terms are
expressly rejected. Any mutually agreed upon purchase order is subject to these terms. In the
event of any conflict of terms found in this Agreement or any other terms and conditions, the
terms of this Agreement shall prevail. Customer agrees that Customer’ s purchase is neither
contingent upon the delivery of any future functionality or features nor dependent upon any oral
or written comments made by Flock with respect to future functionality or feature.  
11.5 Relationship. No agency, partnership, joint venture, or employment is created as a result of
this Agreement and Parties do not have any authority of any kind to bind each other in any respect
whatsoever. Flock shall at all times be and act as an independent contractor to Customer.   
11.6 Governing Law; Venue. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the state in
which the Customer is located. The Parties hereto agree that venue would be proper in the chosen
courts of the State of which the Customer is located. The Parties agree that the United Nations
Convention for the International Sale of Goods is excluded in its entirety from this Agreement.  
https://www.ﬂocksafety.com/reinstall-fee-
schedule

--- page 30 ---
11.7 Special Terms. Flock may offer certain special terms which are indicated in the proposal
and will become part of this Agreement, upon Customer’ s prior written consent and the mutual
execution by authorized representatives (“ Special Terms”). To the extent that any terms of this
Agreement are inconsistent or conflict with the Special Terms, the Special Terms shall control.  
11.8 Publicity. Flock has the right to reference and use Customer’ s name and trademarks and
disclose the nature of the Services in business and development and marketing efforts.  
11.9 Feedback. If Agency or Authorized End User provides any suggestions, ideas, enhancement
requests, feedback, recommendations or other information relating to the subject matter
hereunder, Agency or Authorized End User hereby assigns to Flock all right, title and interest
including intellectual property rights) with respect to or resulting from any of the foregoing. 
11.10 Export. Customer may not remove or export from the United States or allow the export or
re-export of the Flock IP or anything related thereto, or any direct product thereof in violation of
any restrictions, laws or regulations of the United States Department of Commerce, the United
States Department of Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control, or any other United States or
foreign Customer or authority. As defined in Federal Acquisition Regulation (“ FAR”), section
2.101, the Services, the Flock Hardware and Documentation are “ commercial items” and
according to the Department of Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation (“ DFAR”) section
252.2277014( a)(1) and are deemed to be “ commercial computer software” and “ commercial
computer software documentation.” Flock is compliant with FAR Section 889 and does not
contract or do business with, use any equipment, system, or service that uses the enumerated
banned Chinese telecommunication companies, equipment or services as a substantial or essential
component of any system, or as critical technology as part of any Flock system. Consistent with
DFAR section 227.7202 and FAR section 12.212, any use, modification, reproduction, release, 
performance, display, or disclosure of such commercial software or commercial software
documentation by the U.S. Government will be governed solely by the terms of this Agreement
and will be prohibited except to the extent expressly permitted by the terms of this Agreement. 
11.11 Headings. The headings are merely for organization and should not be construed as adding
meaning to the Agreement or interpreting the associated sections. 
11.12 Authority. Each of the below signers of this Agreement represent that they understand this
Agreement and have the authority to sign on behalf of and bind the Parties they are representing.

--- page 31 ---
11.13 Conflict. In the event there is a conflict between this Agreement and any applicable statement
of work, or Customer purchase order, this Agreement controls unless explicitly stated otherwise. 
11.14 Public Disrepute. In the event Customer or its employees become the subject of an indictment, 
arrest, public disrepute, contempt, scandal or behaves in a manner that, in the reasonable judgment of
Flock, reflects unfavorably upon Flock, and/or their officers or principals, licensees, such act(s) or
omission(s) shall constitute a material breach of this Agreement and Flock shall, in addition to any
other rights and remedies available to it hereunder, whether at law or in equity, have the right to elect
to terminate this Agreement. 
11.15 Notices. All notices under this Agreement will be in writing and will be deemed to have
been duly given when received, if personally delivered; when receipt is electronically confirmed, 
if transmitted by email; the day after it is sent, if sent for next day delivery by recognized
overnight delivery service; and upon receipt, if sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested.

--- page 32 ---
FLOCK NOTICES ADDRESS: 
1170 HOWELL MILL ROAD, NW SUITE 210
ATLANTA, GA 30318
ATTN: LEGAL DEPARTMENT
EMAIL: legal@flocksafety. com
Customer NOTICES ADDRESS: 
ADDRESS: 
San Mateo Police Department
200 Franklin Parkway, San Mateo, CA 94403
ATTN: 
Lieutenant Matthew Earnshaw
EMAIL: 
mearnshaw@cityofsanmateo. org

--- page 33 ---
EXHIBIT B
INSURANCE
Required Coverage. Flock shall procure and maintain for the duration of this Agreement insurance
against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property that may arise from or in connection
with the performance of the services under this Agreement and the results of that work by Flock
or its agents, representatives, employees or subcontractors. Insurance shall be placed with insurers
with a current A. M. Best rating of no less than “ A” and “ VII”. Flock shall obtain and, during the term of
this Agreement, shall maintain policies of professional liability (errors and omissions), automobile liability, and
general liability insurance for insurable amounts of not less than the limits listed herein. The insurance policies shall
provide that the policies shall remain in full force during the life of the Agreement.  
Types and Amounts Required. Flock shall maintain, at minimum, the following insurance coverage for the duration
of this Agreement: 
i) Commercial General Liability insurance written on an occurrence basis with minimum limits of One Million
Dollars ($ 1,000,000) per occurrence and Two Million Dollars ($ 2,000,000) in the aggregate for bodily injury, death, 
and property damage, including personal injury, contractual liability, independent contractors, broad- form property
damage, and product and completed operations coverage;  
ii) Umbrella or Excess Liability insurance written on an occurrence basis with minimum limits of Ten Million
Dollars ($ 10,000,000) per occurrence and Ten Million Dollars ($ 10,000,000) in the aggregate; 
iii) Professional Liability/ Errors and Omissions insurance with minimum limits of Five Million Dollars
5,000,000) per occurrence and Five Million Dollars ($ 5,000,000) in the aggregate;  
iv) Commercial Automobile Liability insurance with a minimum combined single limit of One Million Dollars
1,000,000) per occurrence for bodily injury, death, and property coverage, including owned and non-owned and
hired automobile coverage; and
v) Cyber Liability insurance written on an occurrence basis with minimum limits of Five Million Dollars
5,000,000).