--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www. cityofsanmateo.
org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: {{ section. name}}
File ID: {{ item.tracking_ number}}
TO: 
City Council
FROM: 
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY: 
City Manager' s Office
MEETING DATE: 
January 30, 2021
SUBJECT:
City Council Goal Setting Workshop
RECOMMENDATION:
Review the current Council Strategic Plan and identify new Council objectives for consideration for fiscal year 2021- 22.
BACKGROUND:
The City Council goal setting process includes a three- step deliberation process resulting in the adoption of a Strategic Plan
that allows for multi-year resource planning. The January 30, 2021 meeting represents the first step in the process: a City
Council workshop to determine strategic initiatives and objectives for consideration for the upcoming fiscal year. The
meeting will include public comment period at the start of the meeting and will then be a facilitated discussion among the
Council with the goal of revising and updating the Strategic Plan developed last fiscal year.
As an update to the annual goal setting process, staff conducted a mid-cycle review during a City Council study
session on September 23, 2020. The review included status updates of priorities listed on the strategic plan for both
fiscal years 2019-20 and 2020-21 and a discussion on the unforeseen initiatives added due to the COVID- 19 public
health emergency. As a result of the discussion, Council adjusted priority levels of some existing initiatives and
added the new initiatives that came up over the course of the year.
The amendments made during the study session, as well as the recent updates on the implementation status of the
Council objectives from fiscal year 2020- 21, are included as Attachment 1. The highlighted items represent Council
objectives that staff completed or plans to complete prior to the end of the fiscal that are therefore recommended
to be removed from the priority list. 
Councilmembers provided their lists of potential new objectives for consideration to assist with the prioritization
process ( Attachment 2). The list also includes new objectives staff recommends the Council consider adding to the
Strategic Plan. The Council will be asked to review this list and identify which items to include in the Strategic Plan
and what priority to assign them. To help further the conversation, staff has color- coded the Council objectives to
identify which ones are new initiatives, which are existing, and which are adjustments to existing ones. 
Additionally, staff has identified objectives that have been raised by more than one Councilmember. As part of the
consideration process for new priorities to include in the Strategic Plan, staff is providing a list of major department
initiatives identified for fiscal year 2021-22 (Attachment 3). This list highlights the significant new work plan items
that each department plans to address next year that Council may not otherwise be aware.
The second step in the goal setting process, scheduled for March 1, 2021, will be a study session where staff will
propose a work plan to address each of the objectives in the Strategic Plan, provide feedback on resource
requirements, and suggest modifications to the proposed objectives. The final step in the process, which will occur
http://

--- page 2 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
at the March 15, 2021 City Council meeting, will be a consent calendar item where City Council will approve the
Strategic Plan with the proposed objectives for the 2021- 22 fiscal year. Staff plans to hold another mid-cycle review
of the Strategic Plan in September 2021.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this agenda item. The objectives identified by the Council will be taken into consideration
as part of the development of the fiscal year 2021- 22 budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Pursuant to California Public Resources Code Section 21065, conducting a City Council planning meeting is not a
project subject to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) because the City is not committing to any
specific action on any priority at this time.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – City Council Strategic Plan FY 2020- 21
Att 2 – Proposed Objectives for Fiscal Year 2021- 2022
Att 3 – Major Department Initiatives for FY 2021- 2022
Att 4 – Placeholder for Public Comments received by 4pm Friday, 1/ 29
STAFF CONTACT
Denise Garcia, Management Analyst I
dgarcia@cityofsanmateo.
org
650) 522-7003

--- page 3 ---
Fiscal Year 2020-21 City Council Objectives
Council Focus
Area
Strategic
Initiatives
Council Objectives
Priority
Proposed Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2020- 21
Status Update for January 2021
Reconstruct all failed streets in San Mateo by 2024
A
Complete construction of Smooth Streets Phase I contract ( 1.9 miles) and complete design of
Phase II (2.3 miles)
On track for FY20- 21 deliverables
Replace all remaining high voltage circuits to improve safety and
reliability of the street light system
A
Complete design and begin construction for high voltage conversion of 27th, 28th, and Woodland
circuits. 
Project expanded to include 4 additional circuits.  Design in progress. 
Evaluate options and funding sources to dredge the Marina
A
Present findings and recommendations
from ongoing Storm System Funding Analysis. Educate the
community and City Council about current challenges the City is facing regarding management
of
the Marina Lagoon.
Finalizing review of draft Funding Analysis Report.  Staff presented program overview to SIC
in December.   Presenting to SIC in February for direction.  
Remove North Shoreview from FEMA Flood Assessment
A
Finalize BCDC Permit, procure construction
management
team and award construction contract to
initiate construction of flood improvement.
On track for FY20- 21 deliverables
Fund and deliver the Clean Water Program
A
Coordinate with the community on Phase 2 (GMP2) of the WWTP Expansion Project ( installation of
piles) and award Phase 3 (GMP3); begin construction of UFES; finalize potential funding through
the State Revolving Fund. 
As part of Phase 2 (GMP), we completed 6 months of pile driving, and Phase 3 (GMP3) was
awarded. Began construction of UFES.  WIFIA loans for the WWTP and Basin 2/ 3 (includes
UFES) were closed. Awaiting follow- up from State on State Revolving Fund loan.
Meet the 100% trash reduction mandate
A
Continue implementation
of capital program to meet regulatory requirements. Evaluate results of
the Trash Capture Plan Reassessment
project.
CIP project for Trash Capture at Poplar/ Golf Course is waiting for Regional Water Board
approval of the project to qualify for trash capture credits.
Develop an anti-littering trash and cigarette butt outreach campaign
A
Implement enhanced outreach and messaging strategy targeting business districts, continue
implementation
of the Team Up to Clean Up and Adopt- a-drain programs.
Working with consultant on logo design.  Adopt- a-drain ongoing, Team Up to Clean Up on
hold due to Covid.
Evaluate the feasibility of a Green Fleet by 2030
B
Continue alternative fuel and EV vehicle feasibility research. Provide recommendations
for "Green" 
vehicles to users for new or replacement vehicles. Present results to City Council at study session.
Reviewing current CNG Fleet replacement
program, CNG plant maintenance
requirements, 
and potential Electric Vehicle alternatives.
Analyze potential to produce potable drinking water from the Clean
Water Program
B
Continue to study options for advanced wastewater treatment and reservoir/ direct water
augmentation
with the SFPUC, SVCW/ Redwood City, BAWSCA and CalWater. 
Entered into a Memorandum
of Agreement for the Potable Reuse Exploratory Plan Phase 3
Feasibility Study. 
Stewardship of
Infrastructure
Reliability
Environmental
Responsibility
Resilience
1

--- page 4 ---
Fiscal Year 2020-21 City Council Objectives
Council Focus
Area
Strategic
Initiatives
Council Objectives
Priority
Proposed Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2020- 21
Status Update for January 2021
Expedite traffic management
improvements
based on public input
received from Neighborhood
Traffic Forums, Neighborhood
Traffic
Management
Program, and best practices and enhance
transparency of outcomes and frequencies of Council status reports.
A
Police will continue to dedicate resources with a focus on enforcement, education and awareness. 
The E. Poplar/ Humboldt Signal Modification project and the Hillsdale/ Saratoga RTOL project will
be completed. Staff will continue the redevelopment
of the NTMP guidelines. 
Once vacant engineering position is filled, PW traffic will begin delivering on the projects
mentioned.  Police Field Operations has reconfigured staffing to shift traffic resources from
patrol, creating a dedicated traffic unit.  A new webpage to map collision and other traffic
related data will go live in January.
Minimize impacts to residents from train horn noise at City at-grade
crossings
A
Coordinate funding agreements and improvements
with Caltrans, JPB/ Caltrain, and CPUC for 4th & 
5th Avenue Grade Crossing Improvements ( Quadrant Gates) to be funded by " Section 130" Rail-
Highway Grade Crossing Program.  Complete traffic study for potential crossing closures.
Funding agreements executed for 4th & 5th Avenue Grade Crossing Improvements, design
begins in Jan. 2021
Minimize parking impacts throughout the City.
A
Complete implementation
of new service delivery model for contracted parking enforcement
services and integrate FTEs dedicated to abandoned vehicle abatement.  Monitor impact and
effectiveness. Public Works and Police to partner on technology issues to ensure effective delivery
of parking enforcement Citywide. Complete Downtown Parking Technology project. 
The new service delivery model has been implemented
but enforcement
activity has been
significantly impacted by COVID. In 2021, staff will manage the transition from the existing
parking vendor to a new vendor.  Police and Public Works continue to partner on the
implementation
of parking related technology.
Identify streets and intersection experiencing major congestion due
to regional traffic and identify effective measures to mitigate the
impact on traffic flow and the adjacent neighborhoods.
A
Police will continue to provide enforcement at traffic hot spots. The 19th Avenue Fashion Island
Blvd Study and the Traffic Signal Master Plan will be completed. Staff will continue to work with
the San Mateo Country Transportation
Agency on the US101 / 92SR Area and Direct Connector
Project. 
Police continue to provide enforcement at traffic hot spots and will be monitoring impact of
the new crossings at 28th/ 31st Avenues, once opened.
Safe Streets neighborhood
street closures
A
Provide limited street closures, allowing for resident and delivery only access, on selected streets in
residential areas throughout the City to provide space for social distancing and outdoor recreation
during COVID- 19. 
Safe Streets remains in effect throughout the City. PW will continue to monitor the Safe
Streets effort and will adapt accordingly.
Participate in the Age Friendly Cities Initiative
A
Complete community outreach process and submit formal application to World Health
Organization for designation as an Age Friendly City. Identify resources needed for
implementation. 
San Mateo designated an Age Friendly City in November 2020.  Two projects identified with
task forces in place. 
Implement Library Space Master Plan
A
Complete design enhancements
of Marina and Hillsdale branches. Add new shelving and combine
services desk to improve access and overall customer services.
This project is in progress. May not be completed until after close of the fiscal year.
Create COVID- 19 children' s programming
A
Host modified summer camps and distance learning programs to create children' s programming
during COVID- 19.
Modified summer camps provided at 7 park locations.  Distance Learning ( LEAP) being
provided at King and Senior Center for 96 children and will continue until full in-person
learning occurs. 
Implement Online Permit Center
A
Launch the Citizen Self- Service Portal allowing for the submittal of planning and building permits
online to allow for increased customer access to City Hall.
Online Permit Center was launched and has had operational
success. The CSS Portal will be
undergoing significant product and service upgrades in early January.
Neighborhoods
Community
Services
Quality of Life
Quality of Life
2

--- page 5 ---
Fiscal Year 2020-21 City Council Objectives
Council Focus
Area
Strategic
Initiatives
Council Objectives
Priority
Proposed Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2020- 21
Status Update for January 2021
Enhance emergency response times during peak traffic conditions.
A
Leverage the new substation/ rest quarters at 1812 S. Norfolk to strategically deploy public safety
personnel in an effort to reduce emergency service response times.
Substation has been completed and is being utilized. Staff will collect data on frequency of
use and impact on response times. Implementation
of a traffic signal prioritization pilot for
emergency vehicles is underway.
Consider adopting a firearm storage ordinance
A
Present an analysis of what the county and other cities in the area have adopted by the end of FY
19/ 20.  FY 20/ 21 workplan deliverables dependent on Council direction from initial analysis.
The ordinance was adopted in September 2020.
Consider adopting an ordinance regulating vaping and e-cigarettes
A
Present an analysis of what the county and other cities in the area have adopted by the end of FY
19/ 20.  FY 20/ 21 workplan deliverables dependent on Council direction from initial analysis.
The ordinance was adopted in October 2020.
Implement the Safe and Secure Neighborhoods
Initiative
A
Sustain innovative safety and security practices including community engagement and safety
partnerships.  Continue to evaluate technology options to enhance neighborhood
safety and
security.
Police are continuing community safety partnerships including promoting the NEST camera
registry, implementing
a Small Unmanned Aircraft System Program; deploying ALPRs at fixed
locations; and evaluating dashboard/ in-car cameras for patrol vehicles to leverage
technology to enhance safety and solve crimes.
Explore banning smoking in commercial areas
A
Work with Council to define commercial areas to be addressed and parameters of proposed ban, 
complete business and stakeholder outreach, then bring proposed ordinance to Council for
consideration.
No work to date on this item due to available staff resources.
Host a community conversation on policing in San Mateo.
A
Host a series of community Real Talk forums and City Council Study Sessions to enhance
understanding
of the Police Department' s operational policies and budget allocation.
PD hosted 8 Real Talk San Mateo sessions and participated in several community meetings
and virtual public forums to engage in dialogue.  Activities planned for 2021 include
additional Real Talk sessions ( almost monthly); Coffee with a Cop ( quarterly); Virtual Ride
Alongs ( bi-monthly); and other activities to promote communication.  A new Community
Police Academy, aimed at providing enhanced understanding
of the Police Department, will
be launched post pandemic.
Public Health
and
SafetyQuality
of Life
3

--- page 6 ---
Fiscal Year 2020-21 City Council Objectives
Council Focus
Area
Strategic
Initiatives
Council Objectives
Priority
Proposed Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2020- 21
Status Update for January 2021
Consider the adoption of wage theft protections
C
Continue to track wage theft regulations in other jurisdictions.
Staff continues to track regulations in other jurisdictions.
Explore adoption of San Mateo County' s Disposable Food Service
Ware regulations
A
Outreach to local business community on proposed regulations and provide feedback to Council
on potential considerations. Track outreach and implementation
efforts in other communities.
Ordinance to be adopted in February 2021.
Evaluate potential mandates regarding composting in multi- family
dwellings
B
Continue outreach to multi- family properties. Track regulations in other communities related to
composting in multi- family dwellings as well as SBWMA strategies.
All multi- family dwellings have been contacted regarding establishing composting programs
and outreach efforts will be expanded over the next two years. South Bayside Waste
Management Authority’ s Organic to Energy pilot program is targeting the solid waste
generated from multi- family dwellings. 
Implement the Climate Action Plan and work to reduce greenhouse
gas emissions
A
Commence implementation
of new measures from the 2020 CAP including multi- family reach
codes, commercial energy efficiency benchmarking, and expansion of EV infrastructure.
New multifamily reach codes adopted and EV infrastructure
expansion in progress.
Pursue development of additional housing including affordable and
workforce housing
A
Complete entitlements for the 100% affordable housing project at the Downtown Opportunity
sites.  Marketing strategy for Bay Meadows affordable housing.  Develop funding strategy for use
of City housing funds.  Update ADU/ JADU Ordinance.
Entitlements were obtained for Downtown Opportunity
Sites. Bay Meadows “ Montara” is
now fully occupied. Council provided City housing funds direction in June 2020. 
Create a racial equity community art project
A
Develop a plan for the solicitation and implementation
of a racial equty community art project.
Established proposed process with Civic Arts Committee at November meeting. First step of
process is to identify 4 Advisory Members to participate with CAC for the project. 
Implement the Central Park Master Plan
A
Complete selection of preferred playground design, complete construction
drawings and have
package ready for bid. 
Public review delayed. Plan to implement online review and comment as well as hosted
workshops during first quarter 2021. 
Update the General Plan
A
Continue public outreach and meetings following the November 2020 election, develop draft
preferred scenario, and establish draft General Plan Goals and Policies
Currently on track. Study session with Council scheduled for January 19, 2021.
Develop a funding strategy for existing infrastructure plans
A
Evaluate priority projects for each potential funding source and pursue options for additional
funding.
Presented on Public Works Master Plans.  Plan to bring stormwater funding options to
Council during spring 2021.
Plan for the downtown grade separations and long- term train
corridor improvements
B
Begin discussions with TA regarding potential funding and study of existing right- of-way and
potential project alternatives.
In the early stages of requesting for funds in the CIP process to ultimately contract with a
consultant to develop a grade separation plan. 
Evaluate our ability to do a standardized and routine statistically-
valid community survey that includes workforce and residents
B
Evaluate the results of the 2020 community survey and identify future survey needs.
Community survey results were presented to Council in May 2020. No further actions taken.
Review Development
Impact Fees
A
Complete fee study analysis, evaluate recommendations
and implement fee changes.
Revised user fees scheduled for City Council on February 16th. Continued work with CDD, 
Public Works, and Parks & Recreation to update the various other nexus studies to bring
revised development impact fees to Council in the first half of 2021.
Social
Leadership
Strategic
Planning
Framing the
Future
Framing the
Future
4

--- page 7 ---
Fiscal Year 2020-21 City Council Objectives
Council Focus
Area
Strategic
Initiatives
Council Objectives
Priority
Proposed Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2020- 21
Status Update for January 2021
Create additional parking supply for Downtown San Mateo
A
Complete entitlements for the public parking garage at the Downtown Opportunity sites.
Project Entitlements approved. Construction
design is underway. Project to break ground in
late 2021.
Enhance the customer experience Downtown and in other
commercial districts
A
Provide Outdoor Dining options for restaurants in all commercial areas of the City. 
Focus of effort has been on providing outdoor dining parklets in all commercial areas of the
City. Long- term parklet program guidelines are in the process of being developed.
Evaluate a street closure in the Downtown on B Street
A
Pilot a street closure on B Street between Baldwin and 3rd Avenue as part of the Outdoor Dining
program during COVID- 19.
Downtown Street Closures currently being piloted to accommodate
Outdoor Dining. 
Completed CEQA analysis to allow for extension of pilot program through Fall 2021 as well
as a future permanent closure.
Evaluate Downtown parking and transit incentive programs for
employees
B
Identify opportunities to mitigate parking demand and increase supply in the Downtown including, 
but not limited to, transit incentives, public- private partnerships to expand supply, and valet
parking.
Item currently on hold due to increased teleworking
as a result of COVID- 19.
Explore options to discourage commercial vacancies
B
Evaluate regulations adopted by other cities, outreach to stakeholders, and propose policy options
for Council consideration.
CDD is analyzing potential zoning changes to allowed ground floor tenants. Will present
options to City Council in February.
Explore the establishment of Property- Based Improvement
Districts
PBIDs)
B
Outreach to major property owners in the Downtown to gauge interest and potential assessment
options.
Item currently on hold due to economic impact of COVID- 19 on local businesses and
commercial property owners.
Eliminate the City’ s unfunded pension and Other Public Employee
Benefits ( OPEB) liabilities by no later than 2050
A
Continue the City' s practice of pre-paying the Unfunded Accrued Liability payment.
Additonal Discretionary
Payments ( ADPs) to CalPERS were suspended due to the financial
impact of COVID- 19. We will continue to monitor the City' s financial condition to determine
when ADPs can resume without negatively impacting the City' s service level.
Develop portfolio options for sustained enhanced revenues
A
Depending upon the results of the March 2020 polling and subsequent November 2020 election, 
will evaluate prospective revenue enhancement
options. Develop a mechanism to identify
potential private funding sources/ public- private partnerships
as part of capital planning process.
TOT measure passed in November 2020, effective 1/1/ 2021. Will continue to consider other
revenue enhancement
options as the economy recovers.
Economic
Vitality
Commercial/ 
Retail Districts
Financial
Sustainability
5

--- page 8 ---
City Council Proposed Objectives for Fiscal Year 2021-2022
Legend
Brand new priority
Existing priority
Modified existing priority
A priority mentioned by more than one Council
Member or Staff
Mayor Rodriguez
The Covid-19 pandemic continues to significantly impact the City of San Mateo. These impacts are draining
our financial resources and staff time. For 2021, I strongly feel that city staff should remain focused mostly
on the recovery and the important priorities that are carried over from 2020 and earlier. These priorities, in
no particular order, include:  
1. General Plan Update: Successfully completing our General Plan Update with broad community
input.  
2. Traffic Mitigation: Continuing local traffic mitigation efforts to ease traffic congestion— especially as
more cars return to our city streets this year.  
3. Pedestrian & Bicycle Safety: Build upon the initiatives that increase transparency of Bike/ Ped
accidents began in 2020 and deploy resources to the most dangerous hotspots. Prioritize the long-
term goals outlined in both our Pedestrian and Bicycle Master Plans.  
4. Housing Affordability: Continuing efforts to encourage and incentivize the construction of more
affordable housing units.
5. Small Business Recovery: Consider creating a Small Business Recovery Committee with
the sole purpose of ensuring the City is doing everything that is feasible to
support our vulnerable small businesses to ensure their survival.  
6. Pedestrian- only Zone in Downtown: Begin to evaluate options to make the downtown pedestrian-
only zone permanent or semi-permanent after the Covid-19 pandemic has subsided.   
7. Pension Liability Management: Continuing to address our unfunded pension liability and prioritize
new expense options that do not expand our liability. 
Deputy Mayor Bonilla
1. Develop a plan for Green Fleet by 2030
2. Consider adopting wage theft protections ( priority level change from C to A) 
3. Implement a universal basic income program
Council Member Lee
1. Review municipal code provisions that impact the development review process and identify areas
for streamlining. 
2. Increase public visibility and awareness of community benefits for developments. E.g.  add
standard section outlining community benefits on each project page for the "What's Happening in
Development" webpage.   
3. Apply an anti-racist and equity lens to our recruitment and vetting process for staff and appointed
leadership positions. E.g. Equity Taskforce make recommendations for data collection and updates
to applications for boards, commissions, council to track community representation, community
engagement and language skills. (REF: https:// bayareaequityatlas. org/ Electeds2020)  
4. Review and elevate communication strategy for city-wide and department channels, as well as
efforts to reach " hard to reach" community members. E.g. schedule standing (bi)annual study
session.  
https://bayareaequityatlas.org/
https://bayareaequityatlas.org/

--- page 9 ---
5. Assess efficacy of strengthening the existing red-tag ordinance to increase penalties for repeat
offenders and recover costs for staff time. 
6. Continue robust community engagement and public education for the General Plan Process.  
7. Continue exploring revenue opportunities. E.g. signs and billboards. 
8. Continue to create safer and more vibrant downtown experience through permanent downtown
street closure. E.g. S. B St between 2nd & 3rd.  
9. Continue supporting businesses through the pandemic by working locally and regionally to build
economic sustainability and recovery.   
10. Continue to assess the viability of funding options for capital improvements to our aged
recreational facilities that would include enhanced health and safety upgrades. E.g. Measure T, 
Implementing Facilities Master Plan.   
11. Continue to pursue funding and implement the maintenance plan for the Lagoon.  
Council Member Papan
INFRASTRUCTURE
Reliability: 
1. Grade Separations: Develop long-term funding plan
2. Bike and Ped Master Plan: Develop long-term funding plan for safer streets and GHG reductions
3.  Failed Streets -Reconstruct by 2024
Environmental: 
1. Climate Application Plan: Continued implementation of CAP to reduce GHG emissions
2. Anti-littering/ dumping: Develop an outreach campaign
QUALITY OF LIFE
Neighborhoods:  
1. Implement Neighborhood Traffic Impact Plans - Most “ Bang for the Buck”   
2. Neighborhood protection from regional traffic by implementing traffic mitigation measures
3. Train Horns Quiet Zone work to reduce train horn noise at at-grade crossings
Community Services: 
1.  COVID Relief Outreach about available resources for individuals
2.  Childcare Support: Continued distribution of a portion of additional COVID funding
3. Seniors Library Outreach to Senior Living Facilities using the “Mateo” van
Public Health & Safety: 
1. Police & Mental Health Expand on coordinating police services with mental health & social
services.  Expand mental health training.   
FRAMING THE FUTURE
Social Leadership: 
1. Housing Incentivize construction of affordable and workforce housing, the conversion of older office
space to housing & the inclusion of some ownership product
2. Diversity & Equity-Continued workforce and community forums and training
Strategic Planning:  
1. General Plan Update: Develop a door-to-door outreach plan
2. Public Works/ Park & Recreation: Prioritize projects & develop funding strategies
3. Community Surveys: Implement routine surveys after providing a service
ECONOMIC VITALITY
Commercial/ Retail Districts:

--- page 10 ---
1. Street Closure- Develop a plan for permanent closures
2. Small Business: Develop COVID Recovery Plan & Outreach regarding available resources
3. PBID: Continue working on Property Owner Improvement District. Organize larger property owners
with the means to participate in hardscape improvements and maintenance.   
Financial Sustainability: 
1. Pension Obligations: Continue evaluating ways of paying down unfunded obligations
2. Revenue Generation Billboards. Develop a strategy for private sector funding contributions for
specific capital improvements. Continue active pursuit of grant money. Develop long-term strategy for
a hotel on a portion of Poplar Creek
Council Member Goethals
No new priorities
Staff Proposed Objectives for Fiscal Year 2021-2022
Staff
1. Complete Municipal Codes amendments for better clarity and correction of errors (CDD) 
2. Enhance Police Accountability, Transparency, and Efficiency ( Police) 
a. Integrate mental health clinician services into operations when possible to provide optimal
response to individuals experiencing behavioral health crises
b. Enhance training related to de-escalation, sanctity of life, crisis response and intervention, 
mindfulness, behavioral health, and incorporate into all aspects of police performance where
applicable
c. Integrate technology to improve training, accountability, transparency and investigations
d. Engage in outreach to continue industry-leading community engagement and transparency
e. Implement stop data collection requirements of AB953, the Racial and Identity Profiling Act
RIPA) and related policies, procedures and training to ensure complete and comprehensive
reporting as required by State law.

--- page 11 ---
Major Department Initiatives for Fiscal Year 2021-2022
The following initiatives will be pursued by individual departments and do not require Council action. 
These initiatives have been identified as ones that will take a significant amount of staff resources to
implement but are not recommended for inclusion in the City Council Strategic Plan.  
City Manager’ s Office: 
Establishment of a Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee
Evaluate disposition opportunities for Downtown surface parking lots identified as surplus
property
Implement short term rental regulations
Evaluate best practices for outreach to hard to reach communities
Information Technology:  
Internal cyber security campaign/ program
Human Resources:  
Providing safety guidance regarding COVID-19 in the workplace
Contract negotiations with several bargaining units
Assistance with transitioning the City workforce back to post-COVID activities
Finance:  
Fiscal Sustainability Plan
Eden Replacement Project
Community Development Department:  
Housing Element preparation - due January 2023
Continued staff development with public customer interactions and communication
Update Community Development Department webpages
Library: 
Create physical adaptations to library facilities to safely provide service in the post-COVID-19
world
Pilot a materials delivery program in the second half of this FY to assist homebound patrons
during the pandemic
Public Works: 
Advance the US 101 Southbound Ramps at the Peninsula Interchange
Update Solid Waste Rates and Structure