--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www. cityofsanmateo.
org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: {{ section. name}}
File ID: {{ item.tracking_ number}}
TO: 
City Council
FROM: 
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY: 
City Manager' s Office
MEETING DATE: 
January 29, 2022
SUBJECT:
City Council Goal Setting Workshop
RECOMMENDATION:
Review the current Council Strategic Plan and identify new Council objectives for consideration for fiscal year 2022- 23. 
BACKGROUND:
The City Council goal setting process includes a three- step deliberation process resulting in the adoption of a Strategic Plan
that allows for multi-year resource planning. The meeting on January 29, 2022, represents the first step in the process: a
City Council workshop to determine strategic initiatives and objectives for consideration for the upcoming fiscal year. The
meeting will include public comment period at the start of the meeting and will then be a facilitated discussion among the
Council with the goal of revising and updating the Strategic Plan developed last fiscal year. 
The most current Strategic Plan, which includes all amendments and updates on the implementation status of the Council
objectives from fiscal year 2021-22, is included as Attachment 1. The highlighted items represent Council objectives that
staff completed, plans to complete prior to the end of the fiscal year, or have proposed modifications to the item. Staff
recommends removing the items from the priority list that are completed or will be completed by the end of the fiscal
year. 
Councilmembers provided their lists of potential new objectives for consideration to assist with the prioritization process
Attachment 2). The list also includes new objectives staff recommends the Council consider adding to the Strategic Plan. 
The Council will be asked to review this list and identify which items to include in the Strategic Plan and what priority level
to assign them. To help further the conversation, staff color- coded the Council objectives to identify ones that are new, 
existing, modified, or that are part of the General Plan Update process. Additionally, staff identified objectives raised by
more than one Councilmember. As part of the consideration process for new priorities to include in the Strategic Plan, 
staff is providing a list of major department initiatives identified for fiscal year 2022- 23 (Attachment 3). This list highlights
the significant new work plan items that each department plans to address next fiscal year that Council may not otherwise
be aware of. 
The second step in the goal setting process, scheduled for March 7, 2022, will be a study session where staff will propose a
work plan to address each of the objectives in the Strategic Plan, provide feedback on resource requirements, and suggest
modifications to the proposed objectives. The final step in the process, which will occur at the March 21, 2022 City Council
meeting, will be a consent calendar item where City Council will approve the Strategic Plan with the proposed objectives
for the 2022-23 fiscal year. Staff plans to hold another mid-cycle review of the Strategic Plan in September 2022. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this agenda item. The objectives identified by the Council will be taken into consideration
http://

--- page 2 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
as part of the development of the fiscal year 2022- 23 budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL
DETERMINATION:
This City Council strategic plan meeting is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational activity which does
not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in direct or indirect changes to the environment. 
CEQA Guidelines Section 15378( b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – City Council Strategic Plan FY 2021-22
Att 2 – Proposed Objectives for FY 2022-23
Att 3 – Major Department Initiatives for FY 2022-23
Att 4 – Public Comments
STAFF CONTACT
Denise Garcia, Management Analyst I
dgarcia@cityofsanmateo.
org
650) 522-7003

--- page 3 ---
Fiscal Year 2021-22 City Council Objectives
Council Focus
Area
Strategic
Initiatives #
Council Objectives
Priority
Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2021-22
Status Update as of January 2022
Recommend removal or change in priority? 
1
Reconstruct
all failed streets in San Mateo by 2024
A
Complete construction
of Phase II contract and design of Phases III and IV contracts.
Phase II is currently in construction
and Phase III is in design. Construction
for
Phase III is planned for FY22- 23. The final design agreement
for the last two
phases (Phases IV and V) will be awarded in January. 
PROPOSED
REVISED OBJECTIVE: 
Reconstruct
all failed streets in San Mateo
by 2026.
2
Replace all remaining
high voltage circuits to improve
safety and reliability of the street light system
A
Start construction
of Phase 3 circuits designed during the FY 2020- 21 and complete
design of circuits 8 (Dartmouth), 9 (Baywood Ave), and 10 ( Garfield Street). 
Construction
of the Baywood conversion
will resume in 2022. The design for
Phase 3 (includes circuits on 28th Ave, 27th Ave, Woodland Dr, Yew St, Palm
Ave,  36th Ave, Downtown/ 4th Ave) is underway with construction
spanning
from FY22- 23 through FY23- 24. The design for Phase 4 (remaining circuits) 
will begin in spring of 2022. 
3
Evaluate funding options for storm system activities and
improvements, 
including dredging the Marina Lagoon
A
Bring Funding Analysis and options to Council for direction; consider additional needs
analysis ( e.g., update 2004 Master Plan), opinion polling, community
engagement, fee
study and Proposition
218 process.
Stormwater fee opinion polling conducted. Findings will be presented to the
Sustainability
and Infrastructure
Commission
in February 2022. 
4
Remove North Shoreview from FEMA Flood Assessment
A
Continue construction with focus on levee improvements and trash capture device
installation, followed by pump station construction. Construction
completion
anticipated
April 2023.
Levee upgrades are complete and the new Coyote Point Pump Station is
operational. The construction
at Poplar Pump Station is on- going.
5
Fund and deliver the Clean Water Program
A
Continue construction
of the WWTP Expansion
Project, UFES, and other sewer
collection system improvements. 
Finalize potential funding through the State
Revolving Fund.
Construction
of the WWTP Upgrade and Expansion and UFES projects are on-
going. Delaware Relief Sewer project was issued for bid and the sewer annual
rehabilitation
work is on- going. State Revolving
Fund coordination
is on- going. 
6
Meet the 100% trash reduction mandate
A
Finalize approvals and begin design and construction
on the Poplar Golf Course Trash
Capture Device. Begin evaluation, selection, and installation
of small trash capture
devices. Begin conducting enhanced trash inspections of private parcels with high and
medium trash generating
rates. Evaluate the feasibility and potential effectiveness
of
enhanced street sweeping program for medium generating
areas. Participate
in review
and commenting
for the new C.10 Trash Provisions of the Municipal
Regional
Stormwater
Permit 3.0. 
The City' s trash loading analysis determined
that for the 100% requirements
to be met, a trash inspector would need to be hired to control trash/ litter
from private commercial / multi-family parcels or the City must require
retrofitting
of these parcels with trash capture devices. Implementation
of
trash capture devices in public right of way is ongoing. Poplar Golf Course
Large Trash Capture Device is in design and will be constructed
in spring 2022. 
Effort to evaluate enhanced street sweeping has not yet begun.
7
Develop an anti-littering trash and cigarette butt outreach
campaign
A
Expand the Team Up to Clean Up Program to include an anti- littering campaign, work
with businesses
to take a signed pledge, and work with community
and property
managers
on litter awareness
and supporting litter cleanups. 
The general outreach plan, including the business pledge, are drafted and
being reviewed internally and monthly team up to clean up events are
continuing to take place. 
8
Evaluate the feasibility of a Green Fleet by 2030
A
Review past- due replacement
vehicles and recommend
replacement
options; 
determine
replacement
strategies for vehicles due for replacement
by 2030. Evaluate
future CNG facility maintenance
costs and potential for installation
of additional
EV
Infrastructure
at City facilities. 
Began planning for the decommissioning
of the CNG facility, developing
contract for the purchase of renewable
diesel, and assessing the availability
of electric vehicles. 
9
Analyze potential to produce potable drinking water from
the Clean Water Program
B
Continue to study options for advanced wastewater
treatment
for reservoir water
augmentation
and direct potable reuse with the SFPUC, SVCW/ Redwood City, 
BAWSCA, and Cal Water.
Developing
options for direct potable reuse and evaluating water quality
impacts for reservoir water augmentation. 
Stewardship
of
Infrastructure
Reliability
Resilience
Environmental
Responsibility
1

--- page 4 ---
Fiscal Year 2021-22 City Council Objectives
Council Focus
Area
Strategic
Initiatives #
Council Objectives
Priority
Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2021-22
Status Update as of January 2022
Recommend removal or change in priority? 
10
Expedite traffic management
improvements
based on
public input received from Neighborhood Traffic Forums, 
Neighborhood
Traffic Management
Program, and best
practices and enhance transparency
of outcomes and
frequencies
of Council status reports.
A
Finalize the Laurelwood
Neighborhood
Traffic Action Plan, finalize Neighborhood
Traffic Management
Program update, develop a Local Roadway Safety Plan ( Caltrans
requirement) and identify data- driven traffic improvement
projects and seek funding
for implementation. 
Laurelwood
TAP is on-going but was deferred due to staff availability. RFP for
Local Roadway Safety Plan is in development. 
PROPOSED
REVISED OBJECTIVE: Implement
traffic programs and improvements
to
enhance safety for all users by utilizing
public input and data, such as the input that
led to the Traffic Action Plans, to improve
safety on neighborhood
roadways and
intersections.
11
Minimize impacts to residents from train horn noise at City
at-grade crossings
A
Peninsula
Corridor Joint Powers Board ( PCJPB)/ Caltrain to complete design of railroad
improvements
at 4th & 5th Avenue grade crossings and advertise for construction.  
City to complete design of improvements within City Right-of-Way and coordinate
construction
schedule with Caltrain construction. 
Caltrain is developing
draft design for improvements
in railroad right of way
while the City began the design of the improvements
in the public right of
way.
12
Minimize parking impacts throughout
the City
A
Utilize Parking Management
System to evaluate Downtown
parking usage patterns
and determine potential parking policy updates. Begin CPID Zoning Code revisions to
appropriately
allocate parking for Downtown
projects.
The Downtown
Parking Technology
project is completed. Revisions to the
CPID Zoning code are underway. 
PROPOSED
REVISED OBJECTIVE: Proactively
manage Citywide parking resources to
optimize existing supply. 
13
Identify streets and intersections experiencing major
congestion
due to regional traffic and identify effective
measures to mitigate the impact on traffic flow and the
adjacent neighborhoods
A
Continue to work with C/ CAG and SMCTA on the US 101/ 92 Short Term Area Plan and
Direct Connector
project. Begin design for Fashion Island/ Norfolk intersection
reconstruction
to assist with alleviating
congestion
along the 19th Avenue- Fashion
Island Blvd. corridor.
Efforts on US101/ 92 Short- Term Area Plan and Direct Connector
are
continuing. Fashion Island/ Norfolk is currently in the final draft/ adoption of
plan phase. 
PROPOSED
REVISED OBJECTIVE: Identify
and implement
measures to optimize
vehicle traffic on major roadways, reduce
green- house gas emissions, and improve
safety for all modes of transportation.
14
Safe Streets neighborhood
street closures
A
Reopen streets formerly closed under the Safe Streets program. Explore options to
transition Safe Streets initiative to longer- term traffic safety program. 
The street closure element of the Safe Streets program has concluded. Other
elements of the Safe Streets program related to ongoing communication
regarding traffic safety and analysis of the roadway network continue.
Remove due to completion
15
Implement
bicycle and pedestrian
projects and programs
that address safety and align with adopted City plans
A
Design six high-priority bicycle facilities identified in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan. 
Evaluate speed reduction in school zones, prepare policy for Council approval, and
implement
in locations that meet applicable regulatory
criteria. Continue to seek
grants, funding for the design and construction
of projects identified in the Master
Plans and for a Complete Streets Plan to develop multimodal
design standards and
priority safety projects. 
Design for the six, high- priority facilities identified in the 2020 Bicycle Master
Plan that are fully within San Mateo ROW have either been completed or
have been funded. Conducted
evaluation of speed reductions in school zones. 
Awarded funding to begin the Complete
Streets plan. 
16
Implement
Library Space Master Plan
A
Complete site visit, design new information
desk and layout of entrance, purchase new
desk and other furniture. 
Project anticipated to be completed
this fiscal year. Carpet installed at
Hillsdale branch. New desks ordered for both branch locations. 
17
Create COVID- 19 children' s programming
A
Continue LEAP program through end of pandemic; program anticipated to be phased
out by Fall 2021.  Other recreation
programs will continue to be modified based on
health guidelines. 
Activities continue to be modified based on health guidelines and public
comfort levels.
18
Create a senior library outreach program with home
delivery for homebound
seniors
A
Piloted in early 2021, the program has been successful and sustainable at current
levels without additional investments
needed. If popularity of program substantially
increases, there could be a need for additional investment to support dedicated
staff
time.
The current program seems to be comfortably meeting the level of
community
demand. We have 10 regularly users. This seems to be about the
normal level based on a previous delivery program ( led here by Donna Divodi) 
and from reports from Burligame and Palo Alto libraries. 
Remove due to completion.
Quality of Life
Neighborhoods
Community
Services
2

--- page 5 ---
Fiscal Year 2021-22 City Council Objectives
Council Focus
Area
Strategic
Initiatives #
Council Objectives
Priority
Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2021-22
Status Update as of January 2022
Recommend removal or change in priority? 
19
Enhance police accountability, 
transparency, and efficiency
and expand on coordinating police services with mental
health and social services
A
Integrate mental health clinician services into operations and increase officer training
related to de-escalation, crisis response, etc. Implement
dashboard
cameras on patrol
vehicles to increase transparency. Implement
stop data collection/ reporting
requirements
of the Racial and Identity Profiling Act ( RIPA).
Community
Wellness and Crisis Response Team Program is established
and
Mental Health Clinician started in November.  From Jul- Dec. officers attended
1200+ hours of training incorporating
de-escalation or bias.  RIPA
implementation to be completed January 2022. Mindfulness training
completed
in October 2021. Training scheduled for May 2022 on response to
persons/ juveniles with autism. In-Car Camera program implementation
was
delayed due to supply chain issues but is now on track for completion
in Q3.
PROPOSED
REVISED OBJECTIVE: Continue to
promote police accountability, 
transparency, and efficiency
20
Strengthen
implementation
of existing red tag ordinance
A
Bolster use of existing suite of enforcement
tools, including financial and criminal
penalties, to improve compliance
for repeat violators of SMMC Chapter 7.50 and
establish internal process for implementation.
City Council study session scheduled for March 21, 2022, to explore ideas for
how to utilize the tools available to address repeat offenders, and evaluate
the process currently in place for appeals.
21 Implement the Safe and Secure Neighborhoods Initiative
A
Look for opportunities
to enhance technology to increase neighborhood
safety, 
including ongoing deployment of Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) technology
at strategic fixed locations throughout
the City.
22 Flock ALPRs deployed at strategic locations throughout
the City resulting in
123 cases where police action was initiated based on data.  Staff is evaluating
the need for analytical assistance to maximize effective utilization of data to
target hot spots. 
PROPOSED
REVISED OBJECTIVE: Leverage
technology in support of safe and secure
neighborhoods
22
Host a community
conversation
on policing in San Mateo
A
Host Real Talk Sessions ( monthly); Coffee with a cop ( quarterly); Virtual Ride Alongs ( bi-
monthly); and other activities to promote communication. 
Launch new Community
Policing Academy to enhance understanding
of the Police Department.
Community
Policing Academy launched in September
2021 with positive
reviews. Staff conducted
5 "Real Talk" community
conversations
on policing
in 2021 and is scheduling
sessions for 2022. Public engagement
strategies
during the pandemic included virtual ride alongs, PAL programs ( such as drive-
thru food events and holiday events), National Night Out, and Neighborhood
Watch recruitment via community Zoom meetings.
PROPOSED
REVISED OBJECTIVE: Maintain
an ongoing community
conversation
on
policing in San Mateo
23
Explore banning smoking in commercial
areas
B
Implementation
of this item will be deferred to a future fiscal year.
No action taken on this item.
24
Create a Diversity and Equity Task Force
A
Form a task force to address equity and diversity on City Boards and Commissions
and
expand community
forums and trainings.
Staff completed
outreach to identify participants
and to hire third party
facilitator. Task Force to convene for first meeting on January 28, 2022. 
Community
event hosted as part of United Against Hate Week in November
2021.
25
Implement
the Climate Action Plan and work to reduce
greenhouse
gas emissions
A
Continue implementation
of new measures from the 2020 CAP including commercial
energy efficiency benchmarking, 
expansion of EV infrastructure, and explore reach
codes for the 2022 Building Code update.
New EV Chargers in Main Street Garage to be installed in Feb. 2022. Electric
leaf blower rebate program launched in August 2021. Staff is tracking
proposed State Building Code updates for 2022 code cycle.
26
Create a racial equity community art project
A
Explore and plan a community art project to present to City Council.
Identified as one of the objectives for the community
Diversity & Equity Task
Force to share input for this project. B Street Pedestrian Malls identified as
location for art project.
27
Pursue development
of additional
housing including
affordable
and workforce
housing
A
Continue to look for opportunities to increase supply of affordable and workforce
housing, including surplus City sites downtown
and acquisition/ rehab of existing
housing. Continue to look for additional funding sources.
Kiku Crossing project started construction in January 2022. City Council
selected development
team for exclusive negotiations
to develop affordable
housing on City- owned Talbot' s parking lot at 4th and Railroad. 
28
Transition
San Mateo to District Elections
A
Complete the process to transition San Mateo to District Elections, including
community
outreach, public hearings, and adoption of the final district map.
The transition to 5 districts was adopted in November 2021. Staff will
continue to outreach to the public about new district boundaries.
Remove due to completion
29
Campaign
Finance Reforms
A
Analyze and adopt amendments
to campaign ordinance
addressing
in-kind
contributions
and aggregation
of contributions
in time for the next election cycle.
An ordinance
addressing
in-kind and aggregated
contributions
was adopted
on November
15, 2021. The ordinance went into effect on January 1, 2022.
Remove due to completion
Quality of Life
Public Health
and Safety
Framing the
Future
Social
Leadership
3

--- page 6 ---
Fiscal Year 2021-22 City Council Objectives
Council Focus
Area
Strategic
Initiatives #
Council Objectives
Priority
Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2021-22
Status Update as of January 2022
Recommend removal or change in priority? 
30
Evaluate potential mandates
regarding composting
in multi-
family dwellings
B
Continue to work with the South Bayside Waste Management
Authority ( SBWMA) and
Recology to increase organic compost collection in multifamily
dwellings per the
requirements
of State Senate Bill 1383. The SBWMA' s Organic to Energy Pilot Program
converting the organic debris in multi- family dwellings and the commercial
sectors' 
garbage waste streams into clean energy is scheduled to begin in late spring early
summer.
Mandatory
Organic Waste Disposal Reduction
Ordinance
adopted in
December
2021, along with MOU with County of San Mateo and SBWMA to
continue implementation
of ongoing SB1383 requirements.  
Change to A due to active implementation.
31
Consider the adoption of wage theft protections
C
Staff will continue to monitor the adoption and implementation of wage theft
protections
in other municipalities.
Staff is monitoring
efforts in other municipalities. Information
about wage
theft was included in Minimum Wage mailing to business community
in
October 2021.
32
Implement
the Central Park Master Plan
A
Preferred playground
design selected and initiation of construction
documents
underway; fundraising
for Fallen Heroes Memorial on-going. 
Preferred playground
design presented to City Council in October 2021.  
Fallen Heroes Memorial fundraising
is at 73% of $300, 000 goal. Awaiting final
design development
package from consultants. 
33
Update the General Plan
A
Staff will update City Council on General Plan status at least quarterly and increase
outreach efforts by completing
a Citywide informational
mailing, administering
a
statistically
significant community
survey on the General Plan, and conducting
additional targeted outreach using Council and volunteer resources to the extent they
are available. Conversion
of existing land uses into housing will be an integral part of
the GP update, particularly
with respect to the Housing Element.
Staff and PlaceWorks
to complete the Alternatives
Evaluation
Report in
January. Following publication of the Report, staff will begin the next round of
community
engagement, which will include several workshops
and public
meetings from late January through May 2022. 
34
Develop a funding strategy for existing infrastructure
plans
A
Develop known and potential funding sources for existing master plans and present
identified alternatives
to City Council.
Evaluation of a stormwater
fee for the funding of stormwater
improvements
is on-going. Recreation
Strategic Plan consultants
have prepared an alternate
scenario to original recommendations.  
Next step review by P& R Commission
and City Council. 
35
Evaluate appropriate
frequency for standardized
and
routine statistically- valid community
surveys
A
Hold a study session to discuss frequency for a community
survey and integration
of
surveys into the General Plan process.
General Plan community
input strategy presented in April 2021. Study Session
on Citywide communications
strategies held in June 2021. A combined
general community
and General Plan focused survey to be issued in January
2022.
Remove due to completion
Framing the
Future
Strategic
Planning
4

--- page 7 ---
Fiscal Year 2021-22 City Council Objectives
Council Focus
Area
Strategic
Initiatives #
Council Objectives
Priority
Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2021-22
Status Update as of January 2022
Recommend removal or change in priority? 
36
Review Municipal
Code provisions related to development
review process and identify opportunities for streamlining
A
CDD: Continue to revise known code errors/ ambiguities, reevaluate
application/ implementation
of existing codes, continue to work on major code
changes already underway, plan for critical substantive
code changes not already
underway for FY 2022- 23.
Public Works: Begin the update of engineering
standard details, specifications, 
and
Municipal
Code sections, and develop guidelines and procedures
to streamline
development
reviews for work in the public right- of-way.
CDD: Two batches of code revisions have been completed. Several
amendments
are currently in progress and are expected to go to City Council
in early spring 2022.
PW:  Engineering
standard details and specifications
are being updated.  
37
Plan for the downtown grade separations and long-term
train corridor improvements
B
Given the B priority, development of RFP/ RFQ for Long-Term Grade Separation Plan to
be deferred to FY 2022- 23. 
Staff is continuing to explore funding options for future grade separations.
38
Create additional parking supply for Downtown
San Mateo
A
Obtain building permits and start construction of the new 5th Avenue Garage in
Downtown
San Mateo.
Construction of the new parking garage on 5th Avenue commenced in
January 2022 and is estimated to be completed
by April 2023.
39
Enhance the customer experience
Downtown
and in other
commercial
districts
A
Adopt a long- term parklet program, evaluate possible Downtown
festivals post COVID, 
and continue to monitor effectiveness
of Downtown
cleaning contract.
Long- term parklet program adopted in June 2021. Businesses
allowed until
May 2022 to transition their parklets from temporary
program.
40
Assist small businesses with economic recovery, including
formation of a Small Business Recovery Committee
A
Form a small business recovery committee, continue outreach to small businesses
on
available financial resources, and identify other opportunities
to assist with economic
recovery.
Small Business Recovery Committee
formed in April 2021 and continues to
meet to coordinate
economic recovery efforts among partner organizations.
Get Council direction on new work plan
tasks
41
Evaluate a street closure in the Downtown
on B Street
A
Conduct stakeholder
outreach and bring forward policy considerations
and potential
capital infrastructure costs for a seasonal or year-round street closure.
City Council approved Ordinance
creating pedestrian
malls in October 2021. 
Staff working on design for short-term capital improvements.
PROPOSED REVISED OBJECTIVE: Design and
implement
capital improvements
for
permanent
street closure.
42
Evaluate Downtown
parking and transit incentive
programs for employees
A
Evaluate options to temporarily
expand Downtown
parking supply while new 5th
Avenue parking garage is under construction, which is anticipated to start in late Fall
2021.
City Council approved new parking policy amendments, including new low-
income permit program and adjustments
in pricing. Staff will continue to
evaluate parking demand.
43
Explore options to discourage
commercial
vacancies
B
Monitor efforts in other municipalities.
Study session held in October 2021 on Downtown
vacancies. Additional
study
session to be scheduled in Spring 2022 to discuss policy options to discourage
vacancies.
44
Explore the establishment
of Property- Based Improvement
Districts ( PBIDs)
B
Continue to gauge interest from Downtown
property owners.
Staff has been meeting with Downtown property owners to provide
information
on PBID formation and to gauge interest.
45
Eliminate the City’ s unfunded
pension and Other Public
Employee Benefits ( OPEB) liabilities by no later than 2050
A
The City continues to pay the full annual required contribution (
ARC) for pension and
OPEB. Will revisit pension policy as the economy recovers.
Staff continues to monitor the City' s unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities.
46
Develop portfolio options for sustained enhanced revenues
A
Present revenue enhancement
options to Council at a study session in Fall 2021.
At the October study session, Council directed staff to poll voters for a sales
tax or a real property transfer tax ballot measure. Survey to be issued in
February 2022.
Economic
Vitality
Commercial/ 
Retail Districts
Financial
Sustainability
5

--- page 8 ---
City Council Proposed Objectives
for Fiscal Year 2022-2023
Legend
Brand new priority
Existing priority
Modified existing priority
Will be evaluated as part of the General Plan/ Housing Element Update
A priority mentioned by more than one Council Member or Staff
Mayor Bonilla
1. Work with HEART to get funding for affordability in preservation housing. Create missing
middle affordable units.  
2. Increase speed of effort to green the cities fleet. Complete green fleet by 2030. 
3. Establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure. Eliminate methane gas
use by 2030. 
4. Speed up efforts to improve the stormwater collection and storage system.  
5. Fully fund and further police transparency and accountability efforts with help of the DEI task
force. 
6. Put in place a clear and user-friendly “ Public Benefits for Development Projects” policy which
brings certainty to both the city and the proposer at the outset of planning. 
7. Because of the serious need for housing (especially affordable housing) focus general plan
update on expanding business and commercial areas where the 75-foot height is allowable
under a new public benefits policy. (Initially thinking N. B St. and South B St from 5th to 9th, 
from Laurel to the railroad tracks. Make policy to allow larger numbers of residential uses in
the overlays) 
8. Speed up the process of determining the best place to put our (cleaner) effluent (considering
current predictions for saltwater intrusion I am currently favoring recharging the aquifer). We
should consider aligning this work with completion date and activation of our new wastewater
treatment process. 
9. Create stable housing by putting in place meaningful renter protections that provide for
creation of a rent registry and other reasonable measures to halt displacement and unjust
evictions. 
Deputy Mayor Papan
1. Adopt an ordinance that creates a buffer zone during large protests around clinics, like
planned parenthood, so that accessibility remains possible.

--- page 9 ---
Council Member Lee
1. Establish sustainable funding sources for maintenance and upgrades to the storm
systems, including dredging the lagoon. (Marina-Lagoon Neighborhoods)   
2. Study fiscal impact of adopting an environmental, social, and corporate governance ( ESG) 
provision for our City’s investment policy. (Sierra Club)   
3. Study policies that increase access and encourage development of urban agriculture in new
construction, parks, streetscapes, empty lots, rooftops, and through school district
partnerships, etc. (SMC Food System Alliance) 
4. Study landscaping water conservation policy that would tie renovations above $X for R1 & R2
e.g. top 20% of permitted renovation budgets) to sustainable landscaping requirements, 
similar to the City’s sewer lateral conversation policy. For example: a permitted renovation
budgeted at $350,000 could trigger a required $5,000 sustainable landscaping improvement
to convert to drought- resistant/ native plants, rain capture systems, etc.)   
5. Study campaign finance reform policies (League of Women Voters Initiative) including: 
a. 
Creating a voluntary expenditure limit (VEL) program based on population with
increases tied to CPI & build incentives for compliance such as waiving candidate
filing fee and including special recognition for candidates who opt-in to the VEL in City-
sponsored candidate profile in the local newspaper. 
b. 
Creating a disclosure requirement for independent expenditures on digital and
printed campaign materials modeled after Mountain View. 
c. 
Improve language access for voter education initiatives (e.g. provide translation
services at candidate forums and multilingual Get Out the Vote outreach
initiatives.)  
6. Increase the number of members on the Parks & Recreation Commission from 5 to 7
members to create 2 designated youth seats for 18 to 25-year-old San Mateans. (Pursuant to
the Charter, this action would require adoption of ordinance through a unanimous vote by
council.) 
7. Study feasibility and process to remove Commission eligibility requirement to be a “qualified
elector.” ( This may require a charter amendment which could be timed with the clean-up
ballot measure for district elections). 
8. Encourage housing production through partnerships with faith-based organizations and
commercial landowners, as follows:  
a. Set an affordable housing density bonus for land owned by faith-based organizations
e.g. a church with an adjacent lot) and similar properties and broaden the range of
allowable zoning changes. ( Rev. Ben Meyers, UUSM & Pastor Marlyn Bussey, St. James
AME Zion) 
b. 
Establish a minimum housing density for commercial zoning to streamline mixed-use
development to yield more housing supply in the commercial districts and transit
corridor. 
9. Strengthen AB1482 Tenant Protection Act by:  
a. 
Requiring permit approval for significant renovations to meet standard for just-cause
eviction.  
b. 
Increase relocation fees from 1 month rent to 3 months to align with City’ s current
relocation fee policy for demolitions and condo conversions. 
c.  
Requires first right to return at new rent price after renovation. (One San Mateo) 
10. Increase education and resources to small businesses on ADA compliance. ( DSMA, Chamber
of Commerce, SAMCEDA)   
11. Open public bathroom downtown near Caltrain. (DSMA) 
12. Increase revenue through Real Property Transfer Tax with tiered structure and affordable
housing exemption

--- page 10 ---
Council Member Goethals
1. Green Fleet by 2030. 
2. Clean Water Program will produce Potable Water by 2030. 
3. Ban Gas Powered Leaf Blowers. 
4. Explore Adding Youth Commissioners. 
5. Adopt a Retail Cannabis Ordinance with restrictions around schools and significant public
benefits including license fees and safety standards. 
6. Provide no cost menstruation products at recreation centers. 
Council Member Rodriguez
1. General Plan Update: Successfully completing the next phases of our General Plan Update
with broad community input.    
2. Traffic Mitigation: Continuing local traffic mitigation efforts to ease traffic congestion—
especially as more cars return to our city streets this year.   
3. Pedestrian & Bicycle Safety: Prioritize the long-term goals outlined in both our Pedestrian and
Bicycle Master Plans. Proactively explore more ways to further reduce automobile speed
limits on our neighborhood streets (going beyond just reducing limits near schools). 
4. Housing Affordability: Continuing efforts to encourage and incentivize the construction of
more affordable housing units. 
5. Pension Liability Management: Continuing to address our unfunded pension liability and
prioritize new expense options that do not expand our liability. 
6. Restricting Gas-powered Leaf Blower Usage:  With more and more neighborhood residents
working from home, the noise and environmental pollution emitted from gas-powered leaf
blowers is impacting the quality of life of residents more than ever. The City should work
towards restricting usage to one day per week as other neighboring cities have done. 
Staff Proposed Objectives for Fiscal Year 2022-2023
Staff
1. Address structural issues at the Marina Library: It will require major repairs to the current
building or replacing the building.   
2. Implement projects and programs to enhance Police Traffic Unit services. 
3. Explore whether the City should adopt an ordinance to zone parcels for up to 10 units of
residential density per parcel if the parcel is located in a transit-rich area or an urban infill site
SB10).  
4. Analyze density minimums for mixed-use projects and update the Density Bonus and
Community Benefits policies per City Council direction at January 18th Study Session.

--- page 11 ---
Major Department Initiatives for Fiscal Year 2022-2023
The following initiatives will be pursued by individual departments and do not require Council action. 
These initiatives have been identified as ones that will take a significant amount of staff resources to
implement but are not recommended for inclusion in the City Council Strategic Plan. 
City Manager’ s Office:
Produce a new print mailer to send to all residential households highlighting various city-related
initiatives, projects and programs. 
Establish a City Style Guide that will set standards and guidelines for external communications in
an effort to promote a more consistent and reputable brand.
Finance: 
Implementation of Eden Replacement Project
Community Development Department: 
Develop an ordinance implementing SB9, allowing two-lot subdivisions and duplexes in single-
family residential districts
Refine pre-application process
Create consultant bench for on-call support and peer review services
Library:
Expand the library’ s outreach and marketing using “ Mateo” the outreach van.
Public Works:
Emergency management response training and planning.  
Parks & Recreation:
Plan and commemorate the 100th Anniversary of Central Park ( 1922).

--- page 12 ---
From: Brazie' r Jame' e < >  
Sent: Monday, January 10, 2022 5:39 AM
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: Ordinance on Noise and blowers to include Transit Neighborhoods
We the Residents of Peninsula Station Apartments ask that the change in the ordinance
be put on the agenda and changed to include not only regular neighborhood but also
include transit neighborhoods. We have approached the city so many times about this
issue. Please change the ordinance to include transit Neighborhoods.  
Peninsula Station Residents.  
Tao is precious and not to be passed on, unless the student is sincere
and compassionate towards human suffering" 
by: Huang Di Nei Jing Su Wen, chapter 4 Truth from the Golden Chamber
mailto:clerk@cityofsanm

--- page 13 ---
From: Kristie Eglsaer < >  
Sent: Tuesday, January 18, 2022 8:07 PM
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org>; City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: Public comments for the City Council Goal Setting Special Meeting on 1/ 29
Dear City Council,  
Thank you for the opportunity to provide comments for the City Council Goal Setting Special Meeting on
1/ 29.  
Thank you to you and city staff for your efforts on so many fronts during another challenging year. 
You’ ve pushed forward on so many great issues, finding the right balance and bringing joy — from the
winter festival to so many in person and virtual library events and so much more!  
Multi-Modal and Placemaking
Thank you and Congratulations on these Public Works and city efforts, and please continue this great
work: 
SafeStreetsSanMateo
campaign. 
Traffic Safety Map. 
Working to create slower speed limits near schools and around the city. 
Working to make the B Street closure permanent. 
Continuing the outdoor dining program throughout the city. 
Implementing slow/ safe streets.  
Working to create a Complete Streets plan that will consolidate all of the city's plans (Ped, Bike, 
Sustainable Streets) as part of the General Plan process. 
Working with Caltrans to make signal adjustments along ECR from Tilton to 9th Aves. 
Finding a compromise within the community to create bike lanes along Humboldt Ave. while
addressing the parking concerns of low income and elderly residents.  
Creating bike lanes as part of the repaving of 5th Ave.  
For the coming year, please prioritize these infrastructure policy solutions: 
Slower speed around parks, senior facilities and medical facilities.  
Pilot installations and Quick Build safety and multimodal solutions. 
Finding synchronicity between paving, multimodal/ safety improvements and green
infrastructure.  
Appropriately funding the Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plans to achieve the goals laid out in
those plans. Creating synchronization with paving is one fiscally responsible way to achieve that. 
Replacing the "Transportation Improvement Fee" with a "Sustainable Streets Fee" as laid out on
p. 54/ 515 of the 2015 Sustainable Streets Plan.  
Formally adopting a Vision Zero Policy to eliminate traffic deaths and injuries in San Mateo by
2030.  
Subsidizing/ incentivizing employee multimodal transportation.

--- page 14 ---
For the coming year, please prioritize these infrastructure projects: 
Beginning process for road diet for Alameda de Las Pulgas as discussed at an October 2021 City
Council meeting and as listed in the 2012 Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan (p.142/ 410, Ch. 5-50).  
Ensuring wide sidewalks, safe cycling infrastructure, and community placemaking for the
Draegers rebuild in downtown San Mateo.  
Doing US 101/ Peninsula Ave Interchange project so that housing would not be removed and it is
based on reducing VMT not LOS.  
Supporting Safe Routes to School efforts at Sunnyvale Elementary and Laurel Elementary and
other locations throughout the community.  
Making ECR pedestrian signals going North-South (with flow of ECR traffic) automatic and/ or
giving pedestrians lead time, working with Caltrans.  
Making ECR pedestrian signal lead time longer going East West from Tilton to 9th Ave.  
Planning for a road diet for ECR between 2nd and 9th Ave as laid out in the City’ s Pedestrian, 
Bicycle and Sustainable Streets plans and in concert with Caltrans’ work with Burlingame up
through Santa Inez Ave in San Mateo.  
Police Reforms
The San Mateo Police Department should implement the five remaining of the #8cantwait:  
1. require de-escalation
2. require exhausting all alternatives before shooting
3. ban shooting at moving vehicles
4. 
have use of force continuum
5. require comprehensive reporting
For immediate emergency situations such as a mental health crisis, drug use, and people
experiencing homelessness, transition away from police interventions and create the
infrastructure for more appropriate responses by a separate city entity or by community
organizations as laid out in the CRISES Act.  
Recycling, Composting and Waste Management
Terracycle has a PPE Recycling program, providing on-site boxes for disposable gloves and for
disposable masks. When full, the boxes can be returned to TerraCycle Regulated Waste for
processing so collected materials can be cleaned, melted and remolded to make new products. 
This would help meet the 100% trash reduction mandate.  
Please provide resources ( like a flyer or website) that customers can present to their favorite
businesses on how the restaurant can switch to compostable take out containers and how to
cut the cutlery”.  
Thank you
Thank you again for the opportunity to provide comments and thank you for taking the time to read
through them and consider them.   
Sincerely,   
Kristie Eglsaer

--- page 15 ---
From: Penny Nixon <pnixon@ccsm- ucc.org>  
Sent: Tuesday, January 18, 2022 8:09 PM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org>; Rick Bonilla
RBonilla@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Cc: Penny Nixon < pnixon@ccsm- ucc.org> 
Subject: Letter regarding blue skies agenda
Importance: High
Dear city council members, 
The attached joint letter is from One San Mateo and the Peninsula Solidarity Cohort.  
Please email me with any questions.  
We will have representatives
attend the meeting on the 29th to make public comment as well. 
Thanks in advance of your consideration of these important matters. 
Sincerely, 
Rev. Penny Nixon
Rev. Dr. G. Penny Nixon ( she/ her) 
Senior Minister
Congregational Church of San Mateo
open, progressive, spiritual
mailto:RBonilla@cityofsan
mailto:pnixon@ccsm
mailto:pnixon@ccsm
mailto:CityCouncil@cityofsan

--- page 16 ---
Dear Mayor Bonilla and Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
In anticipation of the “ blue skies” event at the end of the month, One San Mateo and the
Peninsula Solidarity Cohort join in encouraging you to prioritize a pair of policies that would
help to protect vulnerable members of our San Mateo community by preventing illegal evictions
and gathering critical data needed to monitor compliance with current laws. 
With the onset of the COVID- 19 pandemic, public officials acted swiftly and decisively to
forestall the impacts of the pandemic on those most susceptible to its injury.  Central to those
efforts were measures adopted at the federal, state, and local levels to prevent families from
being evicted.  However, the last of these protections are now falling away, and the implications
of this— the vast increase in vulnerability to eviction for many San Mateo residents— gives rise
to urgent concern. 
The injury caused by an eviction can be profound.  From a sheer financial standpoint, the costs
can rise to many thousands of dollars.  With one in four San Mateo renters paying more than 50
percent of their income on rent, many are obviously not in a position to absorb costs of this
magnitude.  Furthermore, when a family is evicted, children are often forced to change schools, 
with their ties to existing support networks abruptly cut off.  Parents may be required to change
jobs.  The family’ s connections to civic, social and faith organizations can be severed, uprooting
them from the dense tapestry of relationships that define, enrich and help stabilize lives that are
often regrettably insecure. 
In the current environment, the ability of families to weather an eviction has been dramatically
reduced.  Many lower- income renters have faced job loss or repeated interruption in their income
streams.  At the same time, bills have relentlessly piled up.  As a result, many have seen their
resources completely depleted, and they hang on by a thread.  The disruption caused by an
eviction could easily snap the fragile thread and precipitate a fall into homelessness. 
In recognition of the extreme harm an eviction can bring, and in an effort to bring increased
stability and security to the lives of San Mateo renters, One San Mateo and the Peninsula
Solidarity Cohort support the adoption of the following two measures that can help to keep
people in their homes, simply by realizing the intention of laws already in place:

--- page 17 ---
1)  Ordinance to prevent illegal " renovictions."  With the passage of the statewide
Tenant Protection Act in 2019, called AB 1482, limits were imposed on the reasons
for which a tenant could be evicted.  One of the permissible reasons set forth in the
law is the intent to “ substantially remodel” the property.  A “substantial remodel” is
defined as one that requires a permit, that cannot be reasonably accomplished with the
tenant in place, and that requires the tenant to vacate the property for at least 30
days.    
Unfortunately, some landlords have manipulated the substantial remodel clause to the
obvious disadvantage of their tenants.  Shirley Gibson of the Legal Aid of San Mateo
County wrote in an email that in the months before COVID, “ substantial remodel” 
was the most frequently chosen reason for the issuance of 60-day termination
notices.  She further said that when landlords were challenged about their intentions
during the unlawful detainer process, it would often turn out that the plans were
mostly cosmetic in nature or possibly could be done within 30 days.  
Thus, we are calling upon the city to follow in the steps of several other cities ( Long
Beach, Los Angeles and South Pasadena) that have closed this loophole by requiring
landlords to obtain permits before serving tenants an eviction notice.  Further, we call
upon the city to make two other enhancements to the requirements set forth in AB
1482:  1) to increase the required relocation payout from one months’ rent to three
months’ rent, bringing it into line with other San Mateo ordinances and better
mirroring the true costs of an eviction, and 2) giving the tenant the opportunity to
return to the unit at the new rent.    
2)  Rent registry.  The Tenant Protection Act (AB 1482) created a modest set of
statewide tenant protections related to rent increases and evictions.  However, at the
present time there is no way to track whether the requirements of the law are being
adhered to.  A data registry would provide a mechanism for monitoring whether
landlords were raising rents within the prescribed limits, evicting tenants only for just
cause, and making the required relocation payouts to them.  In the event of landlord
violation, this written record could serve as the basis for tenant efforts at reversal or
recovery.  Additionally, the requirement that landlords record their behaviors on an
annual basis could act as a powerful prompt for more compliant behavior, thus
reducing the vulnerability of tenants to evictions not permitted under the provisions of
the law. 
In the past couple of years, two Bay Area cities— Concord and El Cerrito— have
established rent registries for the purpose of collecting this valuable data.  We call
upon the City of San Mateo to harvest the experience of these cities and create a rent
registry for the protection of renters here.  Research into the Concord registry
suggests that the demands on city staff time, both for setup of the registry and for its
ongoing administration, could be minimal as we know that staff time is of primary
concern.

--- page 18 ---
As stewards of the community, the council concerns itself with creating an environment in which
community members can thrive.  Since stable housing is a precondition for healthy and
sustainable lives, eviction clearly has the power to deprive them of that ability.  Thus, in
anticipation of the “ blue skies” event, we urge you to prioritize the above measures and promise
to provide our support as you work to give them body and move them into law. 
Sincerely, 
Karyl Eldridge, OSM Vice Chair ONE SAN MATEO
Revs. Penny Nixon & Marlyn Bussey, Co-Directors PENINSULA SOLIDARITY COHORT

--- page 19 ---
From: Kristie Eglsaer < >  
Sent: Sunday, January 23, 2022 6:33 PM
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org>; City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: Re: Public comments for the City Council Goal Setting Special Meeting on 1/29
Dear City Council, 
So many great proposals in the Council Members Proposed Objectives -- here are a couple of additional comments in
response to those proposals. Thank you again for the opportunity to provide comments.  
Greening the Fleet
While some roles do require vehicles, there may be other roles where the city could consider transit, on foot or
bicycling options rather than a 1-1 conversion of gas- powered to electric vehicles. In Boston, they have found
the benefits of creating a police officer bicycle- patrol unit.  
Housing and Development
Encourage new developments to consider how to add daycare facilities. Childcare facilities have certain
requirements and the need for outdoor space, etc. that would be more easily addressed at the outset of
planning a new development.  
Thanks so much!  
Best, Kristie

--- page 20 ---
From: Libby Traubman < >  
Sent: Wednesday, January 26, 2022 4:55 PM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: response to the climate crisis
January 26, 2022
Dear Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Member Goethals, Council Member Lee, and Council
Member Rodriguez, 
My husband Len Traubman died October 4, 2019 but I am still living in the same home we shared for
more than 45 years. I am sending the letter below written by Robert and Teri Whitehair because I can' t
express myself any better about the seriousness of the climate crisis and the need for all of us to take
bold creative action to assure life will continue. 
I join them in asking for your continuing leadership in adopting local solutions to the grim reality of the
climate crisis.  Over the years, the San Mateo City Council and many other City Councils on the San
Francisco Peninsula have adopted local initiatives as a starting point for significantly reducing global
warming emissions.  We are on a journey towards net zero emissions.  Thank you! 
We are meanwhile aware that there are so many important issues on your agenda and that staff time is
limited.  But for us, and many residents of San Mateo, the climate crisis rises to the very top of our
concerns.  
The Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change ( IPCC), leading thinkers, writers, most scientists and a
growing number of just plain ordinary people, have realized that significant changes are necessary in the
way we all live, commute, work and play. While most agree that current climate conditions are going to
get worse before they get better, the good news is that there is still time to act for the benefit of those
being born now and those who come after us. 
Therefore, we are asking that significant staff and council time be devoted in the coming year to the
ongoing issue of changing at the local level, the path of climate change. In your goal setting sessions we
ask you to adopt the following goal:  
Create a carbon free net zero, not just carbon neutral, San Mateo with very strong Reach Codes and
other related initiatives.  
Broad Electrification will be critical to achieving local, national and global goals of net-zero carbon
emissions.  Broad Electrification in San Mateo, coupled with increased energy use efficiency, is
desperately needed in residential and commercial buildings.   
You are aware that a consortium of Peninsula Clean Energy, Silicon Valley Clean Energy, East Bay
Community Energy, the San Mateo County Office of Sustainability, and the County of Santa Clara are
working with interested cities in developing a new model reach code. The first meeting of the group, 
primarily for government staff, met on January 26, 2022. A meeting for the public is scheduled for
February 16, 2022. We respectfully request that the City of San Mateo actively participate in writing and
adopting a new very strong model reach code ordinance that will:

--- page 21 ---
1.    Require replacement of all fuel gas fired (methane and propane) appliances and equipment, with
electrically operated devices, on burnout, effective immediately. Please note that buildings create 40% 
of CO2 emissions in the United States. Worse yet, the emissions from gas appliances in the home would
not be tolerated if they occurred outdoors. 
2.    In San Mateo, Cap all methane gas delivery lines and disable all propane storage no later than 2035. 
Methane gas, which is 20 to 80 times worse than CO2 for global warming, has the added disadvantage
of leaks from the wellhead and delivery pipes. Methane gas extracted in California for heating and
cooling comes almost exclusively comes from fracking, which creates its own significant environmental
problems.  
3.    Require the installation of EV charging equipment in all parking spaces in all new residential and
commercial construction. By 2035, no new internal combustion light vehicles will be sold in California. 
The time to prepare for the change is now. 
Along a parallel path it is also necessary to: 
1.    Outside the reach code, support a direct bill financing methodology. While some property owners
are more able to pay for equipment and appliance replacement, a repayment program on utility bills are
likely to succeed, as is happening all over California.   
2.    Resolve equity issues by finding funds that will make clean electric energy available in every home
and business in San Mateo.  Property owners here are faced with the reality that just about every gas
furnace, every gas water heater and every gas stove will fail in the next 25 years, many much
sooner.  Some, but not nearly all, of us have the ability to pay for replacing gas appliances and
equipment with electric models.  Let?s find funding for everyone. 
3.    Support distributed energy production including roof top solar. Utility companies across the country
are making attempts to stop distributed solar.  It makes little sense to allow utility companies to build
large, capital intensive solar and wind production facilities when part of the solution is so close to home. 
I recognize that we are asking a lot.  However, there are few parts of the United States that are thinking
as much about this issue as the San Francisco Peninsula.  Please help continue the process of immediate
response to the climate crisis.  
Thank you as always for your careful attention to these issues. 
Libby Traubman

--- page 22 ---
From: Leane Eberhart < > 
Sent: Wednesday, January 26, 2022 3:14:08 PM
To: Rick Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: Prioritizing Climate in San Mateo in 2022
Mayor Rick Bonilla, 
Dear Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Member Goethals, Council Member Lee, 
and Council Member Rodriguez, 
I am a resident of San Mateo. I am reaching out to you as you set your agenda for 2022
because I have become extremely concerned about climate change. And with the most
recent IPCC report, we know the writing is on the wall: the time to prevent devastating, far-
reaching climate change impacts is now. 
I am grateful for your past work in fighting climate change by adopting our city’s Climate
Action Plan (“ CAP”) and reach codes. These were important steps, but as the recent IPCC
report makes clear, we must go much further, and do so now. The good news is that cities
can have a major impact in fighting climate change. I am writing to urge you, as the top
leaders of San Mateo, to be part of the climate change solution by taking the following bold
but necessary actions in 2022: 
1. Set a 2030 target for the city to be carbon free.  
2. No cost action of setting a 2035 target for end of use of methane gas in the city.  
3. Set a requirement for city operations that gas appliances be replaced with electric.  
4. Ensure that new developments
provide access to EV charging.  
5. Implement electrification
of existing buildings through ordinances ( e.g., replacement
of gas
appliances with electric on burnout) and/ or financing programs for electrification ( e.g., Ithaca, 
NY).  
6. City divestment from fossil fuel investments.  
7. Support distributed energy production including rooftop solar.  
8. Support a "Green" San Mateo by investing in Natural Carbon Sinks, aka Trees. More trees
are being cut down by the day and not being replaced. Trees remove carbon from the
atmosphere and clean our air. Promote the care and protection that trees need to serve our
citizens now, they need time to grow! thank you. 
The climate science is clear. I urge you to respond accordingly by taking the actions outlined
above. Our city needs your climate leadership more than ever.  
In Partnership, 
Leane Eberhart

--- page 23 ---
From: Mary Rose LeBaron <  
Sent: Monday, January 24, 2022 3:38:11 PM
To: Rick Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo. org>; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo. org>; Joe Goethals
jgoethals@cityofsanmateo. org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo. org>; Eric Rodriguez
erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.
org> 
Subject: San Mateo Climate Action - the possibilities!  
Dear Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Member Goethals, Council Member Lee, and Council
Member Rodriguez, 
I am a resident of San Mateo. I am reaching out to you as you set your agenda for 2022 because I have
become extremely concerned about climate change.  And with the most recent IPCC report, we know the
writing is on the wall: the time to prevent devastating climate change impacts is now. My personal concern
stems from the fact that I have two adult children in their 20s and 2 grandchildren under 10. I worry for their
safety and future in what looks to be shaping up as a very hostile environment to live in. Top scientists have
revealed the environmental changes we face include things ranging from extreme water shortages in the west, 
to smoke polluting air many more days of the year, to increased heat many more days of the year. In only 0-18
years time we may be facing these types of climate shocks that will be dangerous to the point that many more
lives will be damaged via negative health effects and/or lost. 
I am grateful for your past work in fighting climate change by adopting our city’s Climate Action Plan (“CAP”) 
and reach codes. These were important steps, but as the recent IPCC report makes clear, we must go much
further, and do so now. The good news is that cities can have a major impact in fighting climate change. I am
writing to urge you, as the top leaders of San Mateo, to be part of the climate change solution by taking
the following actions in 2022: 
Low-Hanging Fruit” Actions: 
1. Include EV readiness reach codes at the level other cities have adopted. Peninsula Clean Energy
model codes can be used. 
2. No cost action of requiring a heat pump when air conditioners are installed. 
3. No cost action of setting a 2045 target for end of use of methane gas in the city. 
4. Set a requirement for city operations that gas appliances be replaced with electric unless absolutely
infeasible. 
Bolder, but Necessary, Actions: 
5. Set a 2030 target for the city to be carbon neutral, as other Bay Area cities have done (e.g., recently
San Jose). 
6. Implement electrification of existing buildings through ordinances ( e.g., replacement of gas
appliances with electric on burnout) and/or financing programs for electrification (e.g., Ithaca, NY). 
Important Actions, but Less Immediately Impactful:  
7. Thoughtful urban planning and increased affordable housing (also extremely important for non-
climate reasons). 
8. Explore investing in ESG funds. 
The climate science is clear. I urge you to respond accordingly by taking the actions outlined above. But if you
feel cautious, I urge you to at least consider taking the “Low-Hanging Fruit” actions, and revisit the others
next year. Our city needs your climate leadership more than ever.   
In Partnership, 
Mary Rose LeBaron

--- page 24 ---
From: Adam Loraine < > 
Sent: Friday, January 28, 2022 9:21 AM
To: Rick Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo. org>; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo. org>; Joe
Goethals < jgoethals@cityofsanmateo. org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo. org>; Eric Rodriguez
erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.
org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds < polds@cityofsanmateo.
org> 
Subject: Public Comment Urging Greater Climate Action in City Council Goal Setting Workshop
Honorable City Council: 
Though I am a Sustainability and Infrastructure Commissioner with the City of San Mateo, the views in
the comments below do not attempt to represent the commission: they are simply my own as a private
resident of San Mateo.) 
I urge you to please consider the following environmental priorities in this year's goal-setting
workshop: 
1.       Enact reach codes in this new Building Code update cycle that (among other things) 
maximize cost-effective Electric Vehicle (EV) readiness
2.       Require a heat pump with each new air conditioner installation going forward
3.       Set a target for end of use of methane gas in the city by 2045
4.       Require that municipal operations replace gas appliances at end of life with electric
ones going forward (excepting only those that would be absolutely infeasible) 
5.       Set a 2030 target for the city to become carbon neutral (as Menlo Park and San
Jose have recently done) 
These priorities draw inspiration and support from a recent webinar I attended, entitled "Code
Red for Humanity: What Municipalities Can Do." Acterra and many other local environmental
organizations brought together leaders in local government (our State Senator, Josh Becker, 
and Half Moon Bay's Sustainability Coordinator, Veronika Vostinak) with scientists and others: to
take stock of how dire the climate emergency is; and discuss what we can do locally to best
ensure a healthy, livable future for those in San Mateo and the Bay Area. 
I was heartened to see the number of local representatives
and organizations working on these
solutions. I know the City of San Mateo won't have to go it alone in pursuing these, but at the
same time, it's important that the largest city in our county take the lead and prioritize as if our
future depended on them. Thank you for your time and consideration. 
Sincerely, 
Adam Loraine

--- page 25 ---
From: Douglas McGlashan < >  
Sent: Wednesday, January 26, 2022 5:00 PM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: Eliminate the use of natural gas and support rooftop solar
Dear Council Members:  
My wife and I have lived in San Mateo since 1975. In those years, the climate crisis has worked its way to the
top of our concerns for the future.  Natural gas is a huge contributor to the worsening crisis. Therefore, we
urge you to draft and adopt a very strong ordinance that will eliminate the use of gas in heating, 
cooling and cooking within a reasonable time. 
San Mateo should also support rooftop solar for electricity production in every way it can. 
Sincerely, 
Doug and Ricki McGlashan

--- page 26 ---
From: Nancy Schneider < > 
Sent: Wednesday, January 26, 2022 2:50:55 PM
To: Rick Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: Prioritizing Climate in San Mateo in 2022
Mayor Rick Bonilla, 
Dear Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Member Goethals, Council Member Lee, 
and Council Member Rodriguez, 
I am a concerned resident of San Mateo. I am reaching out to you as you set your agenda for
2022 because I have become extremely concerned about climate change. And with the most
recent IPCC report, we know the writing is on the wall: the time to prevent devastating, far-
reaching climate change impacts is now. 
I am grateful for your past work in fighting climate change by adopting our city’s Climate
Action Plan (“ CAP”) and reach codes. These were important steps, but as the recent IPCC
report on the threat of climate change makes clear, we must go much further, and do so now. 
The good news is that cities can have a major impact in fighting climate change. I am writing
to urge you, as the top leaders of San Mateo, to be part of the climate change solution by
taking the following bold but necessary actions in 2022: 
1. Set a 2030 target for the city to be carbon free.  
2. No cost action of setting a 2035 target for end of use of methane gas in the city.  
3. Set a requirement for city operations that gas appliances be replaced with electric.  
4. Ensure that new developments
provide access to EV charging.  
5. Implement electrification
of existing buildings through ordinances ( e.g., replacement
of gas
appliances with electric on burnout) and/ or financing programs for electrification ( e.g., Ithaca, 
NY).  
6. City divestment from fossil fuel investments.  
7. Support distributed energy production including rooftop solar. 
The climate science is clear. I urge you to respond accordingly by taking the actions outlined
above. Our city needs your climate leadership more than ever.  
In Partnership,  
Nancy Schneider

--- page 27 ---
From: Joel Scott <i> 
Sent: Wednesday, January 26, 2022 2:09:54 PM
To: Rick Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: Prioritizing Climate in San Mateo in 2022
Mayor Rick Bonilla, 
Dear Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Member Goethals, Council Member Lee, 
and Council Member Rodriguez, 
I am a resident of San Mateo. I am reaching out to you as you set your agenda for 2022
because I have become extremely concerned about climate change. And with the most
recent IPCC report, we know the writing is on the wall: the time to prevent devastating, far-
reaching climate change impacts is now. 
I am grateful for your past work in fighting climate change by adopting our city’s Climate
Action Plan (“ CAP”) and reach codes. These were important steps, but as the recent IPCC
report makes clear, we must go much further, and do so now. The good news is that cities
can have a major impact in fighting climate change. I am writing to urge you, as the top
leaders of San Mateo, to be part of the climate change solution by taking the following bold
but necessary actions in 2022: 
1. Set a 2030 target for the city to be carbon free.  
2. No cost action of setting a 2035 target for end of use of methane gas in the city.  
3. Set a requirement for city operations that gas appliances be replaced with electric.  
4. Ensure that new developments
provide access to EV charging.  
5. Implement electrification
of existing buildings through ordinances ( e.g., replacement
of gas
appliances with electric on burnout) and/ or financing programs for electrification ( e.g., Ithaca, 
NY).  
6. City divestment from fossil fuel investments.  
7. Support distributed energy production including rooftop solar. 
The climate science is clear. I urge you to respond accordingly by taking the actions outlined
above. Our city needs your climate leadership more than ever.  
In Partnership,  
Joel Scott

--- page 28 ---
From: Niki Tzartzanis <  
Sent: Thursday, January 27, 2022 4:17 PM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: Petition regarding youth representation on San Mateo Parks and Rec. Commission
Honorable Mayor Bonilla and Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
We are San Ma teans, young and old, who want people from all walks of life to enjoy our City' s recreational
spaces. We are dedicated to promoting our city’s diversity and inclusive policies, and increasing the
representation
of young people to ensure all voices are hear d. 
As of 2017, among the seven boards and commissions
in San Mateo, there were zero San Mateans under
twenty- five years old serving on the thirty -five available seats.* 
We believe that designated youth leadership positions, better integrated at the commi ssion level, would serve to
benefit the City of San Mateo and provide spaces for youth to become more involved in issues that directly
impact them. 
We are asking the City Council to add two designated seats for young people to serve on the Parks & 
Recreation Commission. Between the years 2018 and 2020, roughly 13,000, or about 62%, of recreation
registrants were youth.** The Parks & Recreation services have the most direct impact on young people and
therefore it’s the most relevant place for youth voices to be represented.   
Given the council has endorsed the General Plan Update Vision & Values stating, “ We embrace diversity and
respect the experiences, contributions, and aspirations of people of all ages…” we hope you will support greater
representation
for people of all ages in local leadership. We are asking the council to prioritize this amendment
in the upcoming strategic goal -setting workshop in January 2022. 
As this reform impacts the youth population most positively, it was imperative to gather the most youth voices, 
which this form accomplished well. Almost 55% of the 122 supporters are under the age of 24 years old, and in
total, 82% of respondents are below the age of 44; those beyond this age also show avid support for the voices
of our future. More than 50% of the form’s respondents reside in the City of San Mateo while the remaining
half is dispersed among San Mateo County, displaying how broad the support for this change is. We would be
able to provide this underrepresented population with a necessary voice in their future and our future and these
demographics most effectively support the demand for this change.  
Sophia Heath
Nancy Cussary
Simon Lin
Mia
Emma Yu
Archan Luhar
Carolina Nugent
Raayan Mohtashemi
Amy Occhiuto
Bradd Silver
Christine Padilla
Adam Loraine
Noelia Corzo
Erin Chazer
Chloe Rodriguez
Ethan Thacker
Joni Cho
Rachael Ing
Jessica Gonzalez
Nicholas Villalobos
Wayne Walker

--- page 29 ---
Nicholas Hutter
Tomoko Oikawa
Cliff Whearley
Andrew T. Concepcion
dustin waters
Philip Fred Lesser
Ethan Lackner
Carmencita Oikawa
Tim Quinn
Edylyn
aidan coady
Dayman Cash
Bryan Fang
Marissa
Patrick Beaudouin
Aran O’Sullivan
Ryan Bonner
Samira Bozorgi
Josh Spira
Jake London
Danny Oosterman
Christian
Daniel palarca
Nicholas Aissa
Alexandra Flood
Alexandra Iliopoulou
Maya O’Sullivan
Yvonne Pang
Siya Verma
Lauren Fitzgerald
Olivia Murray
Calista Savay
Lada
Manu Jhawar
David Soto
Lucy
Taylor
William Ahmann
Alexander Nguyen
Mallory Moore
Betsabe Acosta
Denise Carrillo
Jahkim Steward Hendrix
Niki Tzartzanis
Adriana Fernández
Paula Pereda
Grace Xia
Emily Ratti
Stephanie Carter
Ivana Hansen
Roberto Soto
Mary Burns
Allison Fitzgerald
Carol Cook
Annemarie Cota
Kai Cassel
Tula Tzartzanis
Tori Carlson
Carina Carlson

--- page 30 ---
Taylor
Stephanus Yang
Ava Tolmasoff
Ciara Mohan
Sharon Vause
Samer Bahu
Alexa Latini
Julie Neale
Diana Do
Betsy Haidle McClain
Nicholas Borg
Sarah Kaprielian
Caitlin Kaliski
Brenda Sell
daniella peccorini
Muneeb Khan
Lauren Chu
Allyson Chan
Emilia Sim
Juliana Alioto
Jill Reinemann
Devyn Mohan
Veah Alvarez
Erik Vusani Headley
Natalie Teng
Adriana Cuznar
Thomas Biskobing
Zoe Steinberger
Iva Goel
Angela Dayag
anna schmidt
Alexa Danigelis
Alanna Reynard
Sara Killoran
Xamara Carrillo
Nestor Tzartzanis
Anadi Legha
Courtney Tai
Amy Finklang
Anita Webb
Amina Anshasi
Michael Tognotti

--- page 31 ---
CITY OF RESIDENCE IN SAN MATEO COUNTY

122 responses

@ City of San Mateo
@ Atherton

© Belmont

@ Brisbane

@ Burlingame

@ Colma

@ Daly City

@ East Palo Alto

113 W

YOUR AGE

122 responses

fm

@ Under 24 years old
@ 25 to 34 years old
® 35 to 44 years old
@ 45 to 54 years old
@ 55 to 64 years old
@ 65 or older

* gon7 City of San Mateo Commissioner Demographic Survey

Key Finding:
Those who are 65 or older are toes voor RD a
Hl »

the most frequent age growp
represented on San Mateos 16 took yee
commissions, though age
representation was diverse
overall, There was zero
| representation for young sae set

naa under = = Percentage ol Coommannancrs

Numbers include an average of the 2018/19 and 2019/20 youth participation raves,
Part of 2019/20 and all of zoa0/2021 participation rates were impacted by COVID-1g.

Wea, art pe

B



--- page 32 ---
From: Robert Whitehair <  
Sent: Tuesday, January 25, 2022 8:10 AM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: Goal Setting Session on January 29
Dear Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Member Goethals, Council Member Lee, and Council
Member Rodriguez, 
My wife and I have owned a home in San Mateo for 40 years, raised 2 sons here and watched as both the
housing and climate crises have grown worse and worse.  But I am thankful for all the tremendous work you
have done so far. 
On Saturday, as you set your goals for 2022 there are two issues that deserve attention. I have these two big
requests: 
1. Take significant, " heavy lift" steps to ease the housing crisis. We are forcing our labor force, first
responders, health care providers and teachers of our youth to make horrendous commutes in order to have a
job in this wonderful city.  In addition to the obvious environmental impacts, we are not treating people
well. The housing crisis can be eliminated with these strong steps: 
a. Eviction protection. I ask to make eviction protection and elimination your number 1 goal. Staff time had
been a problem in the past, but please provide staff time allocation to work on eviction protections in the
coming fiscal year.  Eviction is so much more than just a forced move. There is a growing body of evidence
linking evictions to negative economic, social and health outcomes, all of which have the potential to worsen
inequality across groups already at risk.  And coupled with affordable housing construction, and perhaps
income protection, evictions can be a thing of the past. 
b. A very strong housing element partnered with increased funding to build Extremely Low Income (4-person
family income under $54,800 per year) and Very Low Income Housing (4-person family income under $91,350
per year) housing. The City is to be congratulated for demonstrating courageous leadership in constructing
Kiku Crossing. But as you know, not enough Extremely Low Income or Very Low Income housing has been
built in San Mateo in the last RHNA cycle.  
c. A rent registry. A city’s rent registry helps track building code standards, ensures quality housing for tenants, 
and provides a better understanding of the rents that our residents pay. Policy makers use the data from a rent
registry to determine trends and rental housing supply needs. Advocates like me use the data to reach out to
elected officials and other policy makers asking for ordinances and laws that will make the lives of our renters
better. 
2. Create a carbon free (not just carbon neutral) San Mateo, with very strong reach codes.  
A consortium of Peninsula Clean Energy, Silicon Valley Clean Energy, East Bay Community Energy, the San
Mateo County Office of Sustainability, and the County of Santa Clara are working with interested cities in
developing a new model reach code. The first meeting of the group, limited to government staff, is tomorrow, 
January 26, 2022. A meeting for the public is scheduled for February 16, 2022. I respectfully request that the
City of San Mateo actively participate in writing a new very strong model reach code ordinance that will: 
a. Require replacement of all fuel gas fired (methane and propane) appliances and equipment, with electrically
operated devices, on burnout, effective immediately. Outside the reach code, please support a direct bill
financing methodology. Please note that buildings create 40% of CO2 emissions in the United States. Worse
yet, the emissions from gas appliances in the home would nor be tolerated if they occurred outdoors. 
b. Cap all methane gas delivery lines no later than 2035. Methane gas, which is 20 to 80 times worse than
CO2 for global warming, has the added disadvantage of leaks from the wellhead and delivery pipes. Methane
gas extracted in California for heating and cooling comes almost exclusively from fracking, which creates its
own significant environmental problems.  
c. Require the installation of EV charging equipment in all parking spaces in all new residential and commercial
construction. By 2035, no new internal combustion light vehicles will be sold in California. The time to prepare
for the change is now. 
Thank you as always for your careful attention to these issues. 
Robert Whitehair, San Mateo

--- page 33 ---
From: Ben Meyers < > 
Sent: Saturday, January 29, 2022 12:41 PM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Cc: Peninsula Solidarity < peninsulasolidarity@ccsm- ucc.org> 
Subject: Public Comment City Council Special Meeting
Dear Mayor Bonilla and Council Members, 
The need for tenant protections during this time of Covid 19 has never been clearer and
is a crisis which is well documented and cannot be ignored or denied, nor action further
delayed to respond on behalf of the thousands of families in danger of losing their
homes. 
Clearly the current protections in place are inadequate and your leadership is required
to bring to bear the necessary resources to this problem that adversely affects our entire
community. 
As the minister of the Unitarian Universalist Congregation of San Mateo, I have seen
many families from all income levels leave San Mateo due to the absence of adequate
policies. Our leaders have failed to keep families intact despite the obvious and well-
known problem that has been studied and many effective recommendations made, but
not followed, to date. As moral leaders, you must take bold and immediate steps to
provide assistance to these families.  
I implore you to consider a registry of rental properties to help us better understand the
problem and tenant protections to keep families together here in San Mateo. Our city
housing staff must be increased and empowered to respond in a manner and with
policies that will address this problem and aid our families in need. 
Please consider such steps as we approach a third year of the Covid pandemic which
has been especially brutal to those most reliant on your attention and response! 
Our families need housing stability! It is foundational for the care and protection of
children and families, especially immigrant families and people of color. The fear of
losing housing is an existential threat for families here in San Mateo. You have the
power to change this fear into care. 
Please take action on this critical problem and make it a priority in the ensuing year.  
Thank you and God bless you. 
In faith, 
the Reverend Ben Meyers, Minister, Unitarian Universalists of San Mateo
Member: 
Peninsula Solidarity Cohort,  
San Mateo NAACP Branch #1063,  
SURJ San Mateo,

--- page 34 ---
Faith In Action Bay Area, 
Fixin' San Mateo County
Pronouns: he / him / his  (Click to learn why this matters... Thanks!)  
It may help you to know that Monday is my Sabbath day most weeks, and that Fridays are
typically my sermon writing days. I'll reply to email, text and phone messages as soon as I
am able beginning the next day. For pastoral care emergencies any day, please call or text
my cell phone:  
The beauty of anti-racism is that you don’t have to pretend to be free of racism to be anti-racist. 
Anti-racism is the commitment to fight racism wherever you find it, including in yourself. And it’s
the only way forward.”  --Ijeoma Oluo
The Unitarian Universalists
of San Mateo is a values- driven organization
that is committed to
promoting justice and equity in human relations. We look for contractors and subcontractors
who
favor a diverse work force; who provide fair wages and reasonable benefits; who consider the
sustainability
of the earth; who provide fair bids and a change- order process; and who commit to
reasonable timelines. We do require appropriate licenses, insurance, and bonding.

--- page 35 ---
From: Debra Leschyn < > 
Sent: Saturday, January 29, 2022 9:42 AM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Cc: Ben Meyers < > 
Subject: Public Comment City Council Special Meeting - Goal Setting
Dear Mayor Bonilla and Council Members, 
I just want to echo the need for tenant protections during this time of Covid 19. Many families are in
danger of losing their homes and the protections in place are inadequate at this point. Please consider
such steps you can take to put in place more protections for families in this position. This 3rd year of
Covid has been brutal on many of our neighbors.  We don' t need more families without housing. 
Stability is so important for kids, especially. The fear of losing housing is an existential threat for
families here in San Mateo. Please take action on this critical problem and make it a priority. Thank you. 
Best, 
Debby Lechyn
Unitarian Universalists of San Mateo
SURJ San Mateo