--- page 1 ---
21.
City Council Strategic Plan – Adoption
Adopt the City Council Strategic Plan for fiscal year 2022- 23.

--- page 2 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www. cityofsanmateo.
org
Agenda Number:  21
Section Name: {{ section. name}}
File ID: {{ item.tracking_ number}}
TO: 
City Council
FROM: 
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY: 
City Manager' s Office
MEETING DATE: 
April 04, 2022
SUBJECT:
City Council Strategic Plan – Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt the City Council Strategic Plan for fiscal year 2022- 23.
BACKGROUND:
The City Council goal setting process includes a three- step deliberation process resulting in the adoption of a Strategic Plan
that allows for multi-year resource planning. The first step of the process was a City Council workshop, held on January 29, 
2022. At this workshop, the City Council reviewed the adopted fiscal year 2021-22 Strategic Plan to remove completed
items, adjust the priority levels, and propose new objectives to add to the Strategic Plan for fiscal year 2022-23.
The second step of the process was held at the March 7th City Council study session. At this meeting, the City Council
reviewed the proposed work plan for each objective, the resource requirements to achieve the proposed work plan, and
took public comment on the Draft Strategic Plan. Minor adjustments were made to the Strategic Plan based on staff
recommendations and City Council feedback.
The fiscal year 2022- 23 Strategic Plan (included as Attachment 1) is now before the City Council for adoption. Staff will
return to the City Council in the fall for a mid-cycle review of the Strategic Plan that will include updates on the status of
each objective.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this agenda item. Resource requirements for the adopted Strategic Plan will be
incorporated into the fiscal year 2022- 23 budget proposal.
ENVIRONMENTAL
DETERMINATION:
This adoption of a Strategic Plan is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. ( CEQA Guidelines Section 15378( b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Strategic Plan
Att 2 – Public Comment
http://

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager
kkleinbaum@cityofsanmateo.
org
650) 522-7153

--- page 4 ---
Fiscal Year 2022 23CityCouncil Objectives
Council Focus
Area
Strategic
Initiatives # 
Council Objectives
Priority
Work Plan and Expected
Deliverables
for 2022 23
1
Reconstruct
all failed streets in San Mateo by 2026. 
A
Complete
construction
on Smooth Streets Phase III and design for Phases IV and V.
2
Address structural
issues at the Marina Library
A
Complete
structural
evaluation of Marina Branch Library; apply for grant funding for the improvements.
3
Replace all remaining high voltage circuits to improve safety and reliability of
the street light system
A
Complete construction of Baywood High Voltage project. Award contract and complete construction of Phase 3
circuits
7 circuits total). Complete design of Phase 4 circuits
9 circuits total). Prepare for Phase 4 construction at
the beginning of FY2023 24.
4
Expedite efforts to improve the stormwater collection and storage system,
including dredging the Marina lagoon
A
Conduct public outreach for a property based City wide stormwater fee for spring 2023; finalize fee study.
5
Remove North Shoreview
from FEMA Flood Assessment
A
Complete
construction
of the North Shoreview
Levee Improvements
and submit for Letter of Map Revision from
FEMA to remove residential
properties
out of flood hazard zones.
6
Fund and deliver the Clean Water Program
A
Continue construction
of the WWTP Expansion
Project, UFES, and other sewer collection system improvements.
7
Meet the 100% trash reduction mandate
A
Advertise, bid, award, and construct the Poplar Golf Course Trash Capture Device. Begin evaluation, selection,
and installation of small trash capture devices. Commence implementation
of enhanced trash inspections of
private parcels with high and medium trash generating rates.
8
Develop an anti littering trash and cigarette butt outreach campaign
A
Implement anti littering campaign, promote Team Up to Clean Up volunteer cleanup events and anti littering
messaging on social media channels and website, promote and track individual and business participation.
9
Implement
a Green Fleet by 2030
A
Complete
ordering of backlog of vehicles and decommission
the compressed
natural gas treatment
system.
Develop a Green Fleet Transition
Plan to identify charging needs and vehicle alternatives.
Identify funding
assistance
programs
e.g., PG& E, Peninsula
Clean Energy) and begin appropriate
applications.
10
Expedite efforts to produce potable water from the Clean Water Program
A
Develop a CEQA ready preliminary
design for options on advanced
wastewater
treatment
for reservoir water
augmentation
and direct potable reuse with the SFPUC, SVCW/ Redwood City, BAWSCA, Mid Pen, and Cal Water.
Stewardship of
Infrastructure
Reliability
Resilience
Environmental
Responsibility
1

--- page 5 ---
Fiscal Year 2022 23CityCouncil Objectives
Council Focus
Area
Strategic
Initiatives # 
Council Objectives
Priority
Work Plan and Expected
Deliverables
for 2022 23
11
Implement
traffic programs
and improvements
to enhance safety for all
users by utilizing public input and data, such as the input that led to the
Traffic Action Plans, to improve safety on neighborhood
roadways
and
intersections.
A
Complete the Local Roadway
Safety Plan and identify funding for priority safety projects in neighborhoods.
Begin
traffic calming policy update and Complete
Streets Plan.
12
Minimize
impacts to residents from train horn noise at City at grade
crossings
A
Finalize permit authorizations,
complete
design and initiate construction
of railroad improvements
and
improvements
within City Right of Way for 4th and 5th Avenue grade crossings.
Construction
completion
anticipated
December
2024.
Begin evaluation
of closure of other roadways
necessary to qualify for quiet zone.
13
Proactively manage Citywide parking resources to optimize existing supply.
A
Continue to address parking needs in North Central. Identify options to address residential parking needs in
Downtown San Mateo e.g. overnight residential permits).
Complete Citywide TDM Ordinance to reduce parking
demand through increased use and support of alternative modes with LEAP grant funds. Identify and apply for
grant funding for CPID Zoning Code revisions to update parking requirements for development
projects in
Downtown San Mateo.
14
Identify and implement
measures to optimize vehicle traffic on major
roadways, reduce green house gas emissions, and improve safety for all
modes of transportation.
A
Coordinate
with SMCTA and SamTrans on multimodal
design for US101/ 92 Direct Connector
project
grant
applications
for feasibility
and design). Obtain project approvals,
finalize EIR, and begin design on US
101/ Peninsula Interchange project to improve safety in North Central near Poplar Avenue. Begin design on
Norfolk/ Fashion Island Blvd intersection and nearby improvements
to address congestion on the 19th
Ave/ Fashion Island Blvd. corridor.
15
Implement
bicycle and pedestrian
projects and programs that address safety
and align with adopted City plans
A
Identify dedicated
funding sources for construction
for bicycle and pedestrian
projects with completed
design.
Design ATP funded Delaware Street bicycle corridor project. Continue development
of Complete
Streets Plan.
Adopt TOD Pedestrian
Access Plan and identify funding options for top priority projects.
16
Implement Library Space Master Plan
A
Complete installation of new desk and other furniture.
17
Provide no cost menstruation
products at recreation
centers
A
Identify whether current dispensers
can allow for free product dispensing.
If not, coordinate
with Public Works to
purchase and install new dispensers.
Purchase new products when ordering Janitorial
supplies.
18
Open a public bathroom in downtown
A
Identify options to open bathrooms
in City facilities in the Downtown
to the public including evaluating
costs to
clean and maintain and safety and security.
Quality of Life
Neighborhoods
Community
Services
2

--- page 6 ---
Fiscal Year 2022 23CityCouncil Objectives
Council Focus
Area
Strategic
Initiatives # 
Council Objectives
Priority
Work Plan and Expected
Deliverables
for 2022 23
19
Enhance and fund police accountability,
transparency,
and efficiency
and
expand on coordinating
police services with mental health and social
services
A
Continue to work with County of SM and Stanford University
Gardner Center to measure effectiveness
of mental
health clinician program.
Conduct regular QA to ensure compliance
with requirements
of the Racial and Identity
Profiling Act
RIPA), and incorporate
RIPA data onto police transparency
webpage.
Continue to reevaluate
and
enhance transparency
webpage content.
Implement
other projects related to transparency
and accountability
including
LIVE 911 and Cue Hit. Hold Study Session to discuss role of DEI Task Force in evaluating
Police
Transparency.
20
Adopt an ordinance
that creates a buffer zone during large protests around
clinics, like planned parenthood,
so that accessibility
remains possible.
A
Conduct legal research and review ordinances
enacted by other cities.
Draft ordinance
and present to Council.
21
Implement projects and programs to enhance Police Traffic Unit services.
A
Increase officers assigned to Traffic Unit to provide increased coverage.
Adopt/ implement MAIT Major Accident
Investigation TEAM) to enhance ability to investigate major accidents with neighboring agencies.
Conduct more
targeted saturation details to address neighborhood
complaints and problematic trends.
22
Strengthen implementation
of existing red tag ordinance
A
Evaluate amendments to Municipal Code to include additional penalties for repeat offenders and modifications
to the hearing procedures
for currently available penalties.
23
Leverage technology
in support of safe and secure neighborhoods
A
Continue to seek opportunities
to enhance neighborhood
safety, including but not limited to enhancing
the
Automated
License Plate Reader
ALPR) program throughout
the City. Work to secure analytical
assistance to
maximize
effectiveness
of technology
efforts.
24
Maintain an ongoing community conversation on policing in San Mateo
A
Continue to host Real Talk Sessions; Coffee with a cop when Covid precautions permit); Virtual Ride Alongs; and
other activities to promote communication.
Continue successful Community Policing Academy program. Develop
academy curriculum in multiple languages and which targets specific demographic groups i.e.youth, seniors).
25
Explore banning smoking in commercial areas
B
Implementation
of this item will be deferred to a future fiscal year.
Quality of Life
Public Health
and Safety
3

--- page 7 ---
Fiscal Year 2022 23CityCouncil Objectives
Council Focus
Area
Strategic
Initiatives # 
Council Objectives
Priority
Work Plan and Expected
Deliverables
for 2022 23
26
Create a Diversity and Equity Task Force
A
Convene the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Task Force to address topics recommended by City Council. Consider
development of a Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Plan for the City.
27
Establish policies to decarbonize
existing buildings and infrastructure
and
eliminate
methane
gas use by 2030.
A
Develop and adopt building electrification
reach codes for new and existing buildings undergoing
renovations
for
the 2022 Building Code cycle. Promote electrification
of existing buildings through promoting
available rebate
programs
and hosting public outreach
events. Develop a plan for reaching the 2030 goal through the
establishment
of key milestones.
28
Implement the Climate Action Plan and work to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions
A
Continue implementation
of new measures from the 2020 CAP including commercial energy efficiency
benchmarking,
expansion of EV infrastructure, and explore reach codes for the 2023 Building Code update
related to electrification,
Electric Vehicle readiness, and solar installations.
29
Study campaign
finance reform policies, including voluntary
expenditure
limit, disclosure
requirement
for independent
expenditures,
and improving
access for voter education
initiatives.
A
Conduct legal research and review ordinances
enacted by other cities.
Draft ordinance
and present to Council.
30
Explore policies to strengthen
AB1482 Tenant Protection
Act
A
Outreach to tenant and landlord group to Identify
issues related to AB1482 provisions.
Survey other programs
and propose revisions for Council consideration.
31
Explore ways to explore expanding
youth participation
and representation
on Boards and Commissions
A
Research
practices in other jurisdictions
that have youth representation
on boards and commissions;
analyze
best practices;
develop policy options for implementing
enhanced youth participation
in the City' s decision
making processes.
32
Evaluate leaf blower regulations
A
Analyze policy options and best practices from other jurisdictions
with the Sustainability
and Infrastructure
Commission
and bring forward recommendations
for City Council consideration.
33
Study landscaping
water conservation
policies
A
Continue to implement
implementation
of SMMC Chapter 23.72 and conditions
of approval
requiring
repair of
damaged
landscaping
with drought tolerant plants, and return to Council with a study session to explore other
potential
landscaping
water conservation
policies.
34
Study fiscal impact of adopting an environmental,
social, and corporate
governance
ESG) provision for our City’s investment policy.
A
Council study session in late spring to evaluate the financial impact to the City's investment portfolio by adding
ESG provisions to its Investment Policy.
35
Create a racial equity community
art project
A
The pedestrian
B Street areas have been identified
as potential
locations
and possible a street art idea introduced
informationally
to the Civic Arts Committee.
Will utilize input from the City' s taskforce
members
and the Civic
Arts Committee
to further explore the location opportunities
and further develop ideas for themes and process.
36
Pursue development
and preservation
of housing to increase supply of
affordable
and workforce
housing and leverage external funding sources for
affordable
housing.
A
Continue to look for opportunities
to increase supply of affordable
and workforce
housing, including City surplus
sites downtown
and acquisition/ rehab of existing housing. Continue to look for additional
funding sources.
Framing the
Future
Social
Leadership
4

--- page 8 ---
Fiscal Year 2022 23CityCouncil Objectives
Council Focus
Area
Strategic
Initiatives # 
Council Objectives
Priority
Work Plan and Expected
Deliverables
for 2022 23
37
Implement mandates for composting in multi family dwellings
A
Continue to work with South Bayside Waste Management Authority
SBWMA),
San Mateo County Office of
Sustainability
County OOS), and city staff to implement requirements
for SB1383 outreach, organic recycling
programs, tracking and enforcement,
edible food recovery program, and organic materials procurement.
38
Analyze density minimums for mixed use projects and update the Density
Bonus and Community Benefits policies.
A
Develop a combined
Community
Benefits and Density Bonus Program, with clear thresholds,
parameters,
and
options for developers
depending
on the project type. Evaluate the minimum requirements
for residential
uses in
Mixed Use Projects and propose ordinance
amendments.
39
Consider the adoption of wage theft protections
C
Staff will continue to monitor the adoption and implementation
of wage theft protections in other municipalities
and to include information about wage theft enforcement in the annual minimum wage mailing.
40
Implement the Central Park Master Plan
A
Initiate construction drawings for Fallen Heroes Memorial and new playground; complete fundraising for the
Fallen Heroes Memorial.
41
Explore whether the City should adopt an ordinance to zone parcels for up
to 10 units of residential
density per parcel if the parcel is located in a transit
rich area or an urban infill site
SB10).
A
Conduct GIS mapping, and present analysis and recommendations
to the City Council for further direction
through a study session.
42
Update the General Plan, including developing public benefits policy for
increased height areas, urban agriculture policies, and evaluating affordable
housing incentives/ zoning allowances for properties with adjacent lots, such
as those owned by faith based organizations
A
Public outreach and engagement on drafting the goals, policies and actions for all elements in the General Plan
will be initiated, followed by preparation of the draft General Plan. Concurrently, preparation of the
Environmental
Impact Report
EIR) will be underway.
Polices related to community benefits, urban agriculture
and housing on properties owned by faith based organizations
will be evaluated as part of this process.
43
Develop a funding strategy for existing infrastructure
plans
A
Continue to seek grant opportunities
for projects identified in existing master plans. Continue to evaluate
implementation
of a stormwater
enterprise
and associated
fee.
Framing the
Future
Strategic
Planning
5

--- page 9 ---
Fiscal Year 2022 23CityCouncil Objectives
Council Focus
Area
Strategic
Initiatives # 
Council Objectives
Priority
Work Plan and Expected
Deliverables
for 2022 23
44
Review Municipal
Code provisions
related to development
review process
and identify opportunities
for streamlining
A
CDD: Continue to revise known code errors/ ambiguities,
reevaluate
application/ implementation
of existing
codes, continue to work on major code changes already underway,
plan for critical substantive
code changes not
already underway
for FY 2022 23. Implement
more staff trainings to ensure codes are applied correctly and
consistently,
and accurate, clear, and consistent
Code information
is provided to customers.
Update CDD website
to provide more easily accessible
Code/ Code update information
to customers.
Public Works: Retain consultant
to begin the development
of engineering
standard details and specifications.
Identify Municipal
Code sections that require updating to reflect new standards.
Subsequent
to development
of
the standards,
begin preparation
of Developer
Guidelines
for work in the right of way.
45
Plan for the downtown grade separations and long term train corridor
improvements
A
Evaluate potential grant opportunities for funding grade separation studies. When funding is identified, develop
RFP/ RFQ to solicit consultant services for development of the Downtown Grade Separation Plan.
46
Create additional parking supply for Downtown San Mateo
A
Complete
construction
of the new downtown
parking garage at 5th and Railroad. Continue to identify options for
shared parking agreements
with private development
projects to create additional
public parking supply.
47
Enhance the customer experience Downtown and in other commercial
districts
A
Transition from the Temporary Outdoor Dining program to long term parklet program, host Downtown festivals
if allowed by COVID), and continue to monitor Downtown cleanliness.
48
Design and implement
capital improvements
for permanent
street closure. 
A
Design and initiate construction
on capital improvements
for the permanent
street closures/ pedestrian
malls.
49
Evaluate Downtown
parking and transit incentive
programs for employees
A
Continue implementation
of the low income parking permit program in Downtown
parking garages. Evaluate
other opportunities
to provide transportation
incentives
through coordination
with regional partners
e.g.
Commute. org and/ or Caltrain).
50
Increase education
and resources to small businesses
on ADA compliance
A
Evaluate options to support small businesses
on ADA Compliance
and bring policy/ program options to City
Council for consideration.
51
Explore options to discourage commercial
vacancies
B
Staff to continue monitoring commercial
vacancies and policy approaches in other jurisdictions.
52
Explore the establishment
of Property
Based Improvement
Districts
PBIDs) 
B
Continue to gauge interest from Downtown
property owners.
53
Eliminate the City’s unfunded pension and Other Public Employee Benefits
OPEB) liabilities by no later than 2050
A
Continue to pay the full annual required contribution
ARC) for pension and OPEB. Develop updated strategies to
address growing pension liability.
54
Adopt a Retail Cannabis Ordinance with restrictions around schools and
significant public benefits including license fees and safety standards.
A
Study session( s) with Council to explore legal options, receive policy direction.
Draft ordinances:
1) Zoning
amendment
land use permit and allowed zones;
2)regulatory permit framework to screen and select
applicants.
55
Develop portfolio options for sustained enhanced revenues
A
If there is community support for and Council direction to move forward with a revenue measure, draft an
ordinance to append/ amend the SMMC and a resolution for the ballot measure.
Economic
Vitality
Commercial/
Retail Districts
Financial
Sustainability
6

--- page 10 ---
From: L. Eberhart < >  
Sent: Monday, March 28, 2022 9:54 AM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: Decarbonize the City of San Mateo
Dear Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Member Goethals, Council Member Lee, 
Council Member Rodriguez and City Staff, 
It is my understanding that at your upcoming April 4th City Council meeting, the Consent
Calendar will include a proposed action item to formally adopt City objectives for FY2022-23. I
have two requests: 
1. I respectfully request that the City Council pull the City objectives item from the consent
calendar. At least one of the proposed objectives – decarbonization – is so significant that
additional discussion is necessary.  
2. I respectively call upon the City Council to approve the proposed objective to “Establish
policies to decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure. Eliminate methane gas use
by 2030.” 
Decarbonization of existing buildings and infrastructure requires extensive, focused public
outreach to community groups, residents, and businesses of San Mateo. An informed decision
that includes workable electrification actions will be strong and enduring. I therefore request that
significant, additional staff time, budget resources and Council interest be devoted to extensive
public outreach to all community members. 
I believe that many San Mateo residents and businesses are ready to make the switch from
fossil fuel use to all-electric. However, residents and business owners wanting to make the
switch may have difficulty understanding the relevant challenges and solutions. That is why I
believe that it is necessary for City staff to support the following roadmap for success in this
transition: 
Educate residents and businesses about electrification – including health
impacts from no action, and EASY TO FOLLOW alternatives for new appliances
and equipment. 
Assess existing buildings’ energy usage and electrification capabilities, make
the existing building envelopes tighter to lessen the energy required to run
and then prepare for the switch to all-electric. 
Find funding mechanisms to pay for all-electric, such as rebates, on bill
financing, grants, and other workable funding solutions. Especially for Landlords
who may need carrots and clear info in order to act. 
Avoid stranded assets – anything not electric now will become obsolete very
quickly. At least 2,000 gas water heaters fail every year in San Mateo. Replacing
even one water heater or one gas furnace with another gas unit extends climate-
change-causing Carbon Dioxide, Methane and Nitrous Oxide emissions for 12-15
years. The world does not have that much time
Develop a strong workforce – electrification will need many trained workers
and savvy contractors.  
Thank you for your consideration of the above requests, and for your tremendous leadership in
developing local solutions to the climate crisis.  
Sincerely, 
Leane Eberhart, Architect and resident of San Mateo

--- page 11 ---
From: Vida Hayashigatani <  
Sent: Monday, March 28, 2022 11:44 PM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: April 4th City Council meeting - Requests
Dear Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Member Goethals, Council Member
Lee, Council Member Rodriguez and City Staff, 
As a member of the Climate Reality Project - San Mateo Policy Action Squad and the
San Mateo Climate Action Team, I've been informed that at the upcoming April 4th City
Council meeting, the Consent Calendar will include a proposed action item to formally
adopt City objectives for FY2022-23.   
As a 40-year+ resident of San Mateo, I have the following requests for you: 
1.  I respectfully request that the City Council pull the City objectives item from the consent
calendar.  At least one of the proposed objectives – decarbonization – is so significant that additional
discussion is necessary.   
2.  I respectively call upon the City Council to approve the proposed objective to
Establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure. Eliminate methane gas use by
2030.” 
Decarbonization of existing buildings and infrastructure requires extensive, focused
public outreach to community groups, residents, and businesses of San Mateo. An
informed decision that includes workable electrification actions will be strong and
enduring.  I therefore request that significant, additional staff time, budget resources and
Council interest be devoted to extensive public outreach to all community members. 
I believe that many San Mateo residents and businesses are ready to make the switch
from fossil fuel use to all-electric.  However, residents and business owners wanting to
make the switch may have difficulty understanding the relevant challenges and
solutions.  That is why I believe that it is necessary for City staff to support the following
roadmap for success in this transition: 
Educate residents and businesses about electrification – including health
impacts from no action, and alternatives for new appliances and equipment. 
Assess existing buildings’ energy usage and electrification capabilities, to be
prepared for the switch to all-electric. 
Find funding mechanisms to pay for all-electric, such as rebates, on bill
financing, grants, and other workable funding solutions. 
Avoid stranded assets – anything not electric now will become obsolete very
quickly.  At least 2,000 gas water heaters fail every year in San
Mateo.  Replacing even one water heater or one gas furnace with another gas
unit extends climate-change-causing Carbon Dioxide, Methane and Nitrous
Oxide emissions for 12-15 years.  The world does not have that much time
Develop a strong workforce – electrification will need many trained workers
and savvy contractors.

--- page 12 ---
Thank you for your consideration of the above requests, and for your tremendous
leadership in developing local solutions to the climate crisis.  
Sincerely, 
Vida Hayashigatani, Resident of San Mateo

--- page 13 ---
From: Michelle Hudson < >  
Sent: Tuesday, March 29, 2022 8:51 PM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: Please Support the Building Decarbonization Objective
Dear Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Member Goethals, Council Member Lee, 
Council Member Rodriguez, and City Staff, 
Thank you for your strong leadership in enacting local solutions to the climate crisis. San Mateo
has adopted solid Climate Action Plans, Reach Codes, and many other policies and programs
in the fight against climate change. I wish that we could just leave it at that - thanking you for
your past hard work and visionary climate action - and that everything would be okay. But, 
unfortunately, we have a rapidly closing window in which we can still avert the worst impacts of
climate change that we know are coming for us, our children, our health, and our economic
security.  
As a busy working mom of two school aged kids, for years, I had exactly zero time to do
anything about climate change. But, my climate anxiety grew as my children, both of whom
have asthma, suffered as wildfires increased in number and severity. So, this past year, I finally
decided to turn from worry to action. I began with self-education, and I learned that buildings
account for 27% of greenhouse gas emissions in California, and a whopping 42% in the City of
San Mateo (according to the City's Climate Action Plan). Along with this, I learned the very good
news that cities are in a great position to do something about these greenhouse gas emissions.  
Then, I really came off the sidelines. Together with other climate-concerned San Mateans, I co-
founded the San Mateo Climate Action Team. You have heard from us at City Council meetings
since the City Council goal setting meeting on 1/29/22. We haven’t been around for long, but
our numbers are steadily growing. I believe this will just continue, as so many San Mateans, like
me, are exchanging their hopelessness for hope and optimism for bold, local solutions to the
climate crisis.  
This brings me to the following requests of this City Council and City staff. In anticipation of the
upcoming April 4 City Council Meeting, along with the other members of the San Mateo Climate
Action Team, I respectfully urge this City Council to:  
1. Approve Mayor Bonilla’s proposed objective to “Establish policies to decarbonize
existing buildings and infrastructure. Eliminate methane gas use by 2030.” 
2. Devote significant, additional staff time, budget resources and Council interest to
extensive public outreach to all community members to support decarbonization
policies. 
3. Support the following roadmap for success in the transition from gas infrastructure to
electric: 
Educate residents and businesses about electrification – including health
impacts from no action, and alternatives for new appliances and equipment. 
Assess existing buildings’ energy usage and electrification capabilities, to be
prepared for the switch to all-electric. 
Find funding mechanisms to pay for all-electric, such as rebates, on bill
financing, grants, and other workable funding solutions.

--- page 14 ---
Avoid stranded assets – anything not electric now will become obsolete very
quickly. At least 2,000 gas water heaters fail every year in San Mateo. Replacing
even one water heater or one gas furnace with another gas unit extends climate-
change-causing Carbon Dioxide, Methane and Nitrous Oxide emissions for 12-15
years. The world does not have that much time
Develop a strong workforce – electrification will need many trained workers
and savvy contractors. 
I am sorry to ask yet more of this City that has already done so much to develop local solutions
to the climate crisis. But unfortunately, further climate action and leadership is imperative to
protect the health and economic security of this community and its future generations. I
therefore urge you to approve the above decarbonization objective, outreach efforts, and
roadmap for success.  
Thank you, 
Michelle Hudson, Resident of San Mateo

--- page 15 ---
From: Sheryl Johnson < >  
Sent: Wednesday, March 30, 2022 4:41 PM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: Decarbonization Objective for City of San Mateo
Dear San Mateo City Council, 
I am writing on behalf of the Congregational Church of San Mateo in San Mateo, California. In recent
years, our congregation, under the leadership of our Energy and Environmental Justice Ministry, has
prioritized taking bold climate action and educating our community on the climate crisis as an integral
expression of our faith.  
We recognize that the City of San Mateo has also been a leader in local actions to fight climate
change, being among the first in our county to adopt strong climate action plans. We applaud the City
Council for its strong, courageous leadership in tackling the climate crisis. 
We have become aware that the final City Council objectives for fiscal year 2022-2023 will be voted
on at the April 4, 2022 City Council meeting. We understand that this is an important process wherein
funds and staff time are allocated to issues of significant interest to the City Council. 
As a community that prioritizes bold climate action, we fully support Mayor Bonilla's proposed
objective on the draft list of objectives for FY 2022-2023 to: "Establish policies to decarbonize existing
buildings and infrastructure. Eliminate methane gas use by 2030." We respectfully request that the
City Council adopt this important objective and that sufficient City Staff and City Council time and
resources be devoted to studying options for its implementation. 
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), leading thinkers, writers, scientists, and a
growing number of ordinary people, have realized that significant changes are necessary to the way
we construct, manage and provide energy to buildings, as buildings account for a significant
percentage of global greenhouse gas emissions. In California, for example, the operation and
maintenance of commercial and residential buildings accounts for 27% of our nation’s total
greenhouse gas emissions; in the City of San Mateo, that number is 42%.  
The good news is that we still have time and the ability to take action to avoid the worst
consequences of climate change. As our City Council, you have a tremendous opportunity right now
to take meaningful action by adopting and studying Mayor Bonilla’s proposed objective to
decarbonize our buildings and eliminate methane gas use. We respectfully urge you to do so.  
Sincerely,  
Julie Lenden, Moderator, Congregational Church of San Mateo
Warren Long, Chairperson, Energy and Environmental Justice Ministry, Congregational Church of
San Mateo
Revs. Penny Nixon, Jorge Bautista, and Sheryl Johnson, Ministers, Congregational Church of San
Mateo
Rev. Sheryl Johnson
Associate Minister
Pronouns: she/ her/ hers

--- page 16 ---
From: Marty Jordan < >  
Sent: Monday, March 28, 2022 9:00 AM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Cc: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: comments regarding April 4 city council meeting
Importance: High
Dear Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Member Goethals, Council Member Lee, 
Council Member Rodriguez and City Staff, 
It is my understanding that at your upcoming April 4th City Council meeting, the Consent
Calendar will include a proposed action item to formally adopt City objectives for FY2022-23. I
have two requests: 
1. I respectfully request that the City Council pull the City objectives item from the consent
calendar. At least one of the proposed objectives – decarbonization – is so significant that
additional discussion is necessary.  
2. I respectively call upon the City Council to approve the proposed objective to “Establish
policies to decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure. Eliminate methane gas use
by 2030.” 
Decarbonization of existing buildings and infrastructure requires extensive, focused public
outreach to community groups, residents, and businesses of San Mateo. An informed decision
that includes workable electrification actions will be strong and enduring. I therefore request that
significant, additional staff time, budget resources and Council interest be devoted to extensive
public outreach to all community members. 
I believe that many San Mateo residents and businesses are ready to make the switch from
fossil fuel use to all-electric. However, residents and business owners wanting to make the
switch may have difficulty understanding the relevant challenges and solutions. That is why I
believe that it is necessary for City staff to support the following roadmap for success in this
transition: 
Educate residents and businesses about electrification – including health impacts from
no action, and alternatives for new appliances and equipment. 
Assess existing buildings’ energy usage and electrification capabilities, to be prepared
for the switch to all-electric. 
Find funding mechanisms to pay for all-electric, such as rebates, on bill financing, 
grants, and other workable funding solutions. 
Avoid stranded assets – anything not electric now will become obsolete very quickly. 
At least 2,000 gas water heaters fail every year in San Mateo. Replacing even one water
heater or one gas furnace with another gas unit extends climate-change-causing Carbon
Dioxide, Methane and Nitrous Oxide emissions for 12-15 years. The world does not
have that much time
Develop a strong workforce – electrification will need many trained workers and savvy
contractors. 
Thank you for your consideration of the above requests, and for your tremendous leadership in
developing local solutions to the climate crisis.  
Sincerely, 
Marty Jordan - Resident of San Mateo

--- page 17 ---
From: CHRIS KETNER < >  
Sent: Sunday, March 27, 2022 3:45 PM
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: Consent Calendar
Dear Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Member Goethals, Council Member Lee, 
Council Member Rodriguez and City Staff, 
It is my understanding that at your upcoming April 4th City Council meeting, the Consent
Calendar will include a proposed action item to formally adopt City objectives for FY2022-23. I
have two requests: 
1. I respectfully request that the City Council pull the City objectives item from the consent
calendar. At least one of the proposed objectives – decarbonization – is so significant that
additional discussion is necessary.  
2. I respectively call upon the City Council to approve the proposed objective to “Establish
policies to decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure. Eliminate methane gas use
by 2030.” 
iPhone typing dispensation please! 
Regards, 
Chris Ketner

--- page 18 ---
From: Michelle Mandel < >  
Sent: Tuesday, March 29, 2022 12:31 PM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: Approve Policies to Decarbonize - Letter in Support
Dear Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Member Goethals, Council Member Lee, 
Council Member Rodriguez and City Staff, 
It is my understanding that at your upcoming April 4th City Council meeting, the Consent
Calendar will include a proposed action item to formally adopt City objectives for FY2022 -23. I
have two requests: 
1. I respectfully request that the City Council pull the City objectives item from the consent
calendar. At least one of the proposed objectives – decarbonization – is so significant that
additional discussion is necessary.  
2. I respectively call upon the City Council to approve the proposed objective to “Establish
policies to decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure. Eliminate methane gas use
by 2030.” 
Decarbonization of existing buildings and infrastructure requires extensive, focused public
outreach to community groups, residents, and businesses of San Mateo. An informed decision
that includes workable electrification actions will be strong and enduring. I therefore request that
significant, additional staff time, budget resources and Council interest be devoted to extensive
public outreach to all community members. 
I believe that many San Mateo residents and businesses are ready to make the switch from
fossil fuel use to all-electric. However, residents and business owners wanting to make the
switch may have difficulty understanding the relevant challenges and solutions. That is why I
believe that it is necessary for City staff to support the following roadmap for success in this
transition: 
Educate residents and businesses about electrification – including health
impacts from no action, and alternatives for new appliances and equipment. 
Assess existing buildings’ energy usage and electrification capabilities, to be
prepared for the switch to all-electric. 
Find funding mechanisms to pay for all-electric, such as rebates, on bill
financing, grants, and other workable funding solutions. 
Avoid stranded assets – anything not electric now will become obsolete very
quickly. At least 2,000 gas water heaters fail every year in San Mateo. Replacing
even one water heater or one gas furnace with another gas unit extends climate-
change-causing Carbon Dioxide, Methane and Nitrous Oxide emissions for 12-15
years. The world does not have that much time
Develop a strong workforce – electrification will need many trained workers
and savvy contractors. 
Thank you for your consideration of the above requests, and for your tremendous leadership in
developing local solutions to the climate crisis.  
Sincerely, 
Michelle Mandel & Simon Reading, Residents of San Mateo

--- page 19 ---
From: Elaine Salinger < >  
Sent: Sunday, March 27, 2022 3:38 PM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: Establish policies to decarbonize San Mateo
Dear Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Member Goethals, Council Member Lee, Council Member
Rodriguez and City Staff, 
It is my understanding that at your upcoming April 4th City Council meeting, the Consent Calendar will include
a proposed action item to formally adopt City objectives for FY2022-23.  I have two requests: 
1.  I respectfully request that the City Council pull the City objectives item from the consent calendar.  At
least one of the proposed objectives – decarbonization – is so significant that additional discussion is
necessary.   
2.  I respectively call upon the City Council to approve the proposed objective to “Establish policies to
decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure. Eliminate methane gas use by 2030.” 
Decarbonization of existing buildings and infrastructure requires extensive, focused public outreach to
community groups, residents, and businesses of San Mateo. An informed decision that includes workable
electrification actions will be strong and enduring.  I therefore request that significant, additional staff time, 
budget resources and Council interest be devoted to extensive public outreach to all community members. 
I believe that many San Mateo residents and businesses are ready to make the switch from fossil fuel use to
all-electric.  However, residents and business owners wanting to make the switch may have difficulty
understanding the relevant challenges and solutions.  That is why I believe that it is necessary for City staff to
support the following roadmap for success in this transition: 
Educate residents and businesses about electrification – including health impacts from no action, and
alternatives for new appliances and equipment. 
Assess existing buildings’ energy usage and electrification capabilities, to be prepared for the switch to
all-electric. 
Find funding mechanisms to pay for all-electric, such as rebates, on bill financing, grants, and other
workable funding solutions. 
Avoid stranded assets – anything not electric now will become obsolete very quickly.  At least 2,000
gas water heaters fail every year in San Mateo.  Replacing even one water heater or one gas furnace
with another gas unit extends climate-change-causing Carbon Dioxide, Methane and Nitrous Oxide
emissions for 12-15 years.  The world does not have that much time
Develop a strong workforce – electrification will need many trained workers and savvy contractors. 
Thank you for your consideration of the above requests, and for your tremendous leadership in developing
local solutions to the climate crisis.  
Sincerely, 
Elaine Salinger, Group Co-Leader and Resident of San Mateo
San Mateo County Chapter
650-533-3539

--- page 20 ---
From: Nancy Schneider < >  
Sent: Tuesday, March 29, 2022 6:53 PM
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: Decarbonization Objective for City of San Mateo
Dear San Mateo City Council, 
I am writing on behalf of the Peninsula Temple Beth El congregation in San Mateo, 
California, a congregation of 800 plus families. In recent years, our congregation, under
the leadership of our Rodfei Tzedek social justice team, has prioritized taking bold
climate action and educating our community on the climate crisis. This comports with
the Jewish value of “Tikkun Olam,” or repairing the earthly world in which we live. 
We recognize that the City of San Mateo has also been a leader in local actions to fight
climate change, being among the first in our county to adopt strong climate action plans. 
We applaud the City Council for its strong, courageous leadership in tackling the climate
crisis. 
We have become aware that the final City Council objectives for fiscal year 2022-2023
will be voted on at the April 4, 2022 City Council meeting. We understand that this is an
important process wherein funds and staff time are allocated to issues of significant
interest to the City Council. 
As a Jewish community that prioritizes bold climate action, we fully support Mayor
Bonilla's proposed objective on the draft list of objectives for FY 2022-2023 to: 
Establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure. Eliminate
methane gas use by 2030." We respectfully request that the City Council adopt this
important objective, and that sufficient City Staff and City Council time and resources be
devoted to studying options for its implementation. 
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), leading thinkers, writers, most
scientists and a growing number of ordinary people, have realized that significant
changes are necessary in the way we construct, manage and provide energy to
buildings, as buildings account for a significant percentage of global greenhouse gas
emissions. In California, for example, the operation and maintenance of commercial and
residential buildings accounts for 27% of our nation’s total greenhouse gas emissions; 
in the City of San Mateo, that number is 42%.  
The good news is that we still have time and ability to repair the world. As our City
Council, you have a tremendous opportunity right now to take meaningful action by
adopting and studying Mayor Bonilla’s proposed objective to decarbonize our buildings
and eliminate methane gas use. We respectfully urge you to do so.  
Thank you, 
Rabbi Darryl Crystal, Interim Senior Rabbi
Rabbi Lisa Kingston, Associate Rabbi, Incoming Senior Rabbi
Roger Feigelson, President, Board of Trustees
Marla Becker, Nancy Bott, Marcus Oettinger, Jessica Rosenberg, and Rebecca
Schwartz, Leadership Team for Rodfei Tzedek, PTBE Social Justice Team
Nancy Schneider, Resident of San Mateo, Leadership Team for Rodfei Tzedek

--- page 21 ---
From: Michelle Hudson <>  
Sent: Wednesday, March 30, 2022 10:39 AM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Cc: Robert Whitehair <robertwhitehair2@gmail. com> 
Subject: Sign-On Letter for Decarbonization Objective - Presented by the San Mateo Climate Action
Team
Dear City Council, 
The San Mateo Climate Action Team presents to you the following sign-on letter, signed by 120
organizations, San Mateo residents, and other community members, all united in their desire for
bold, local solutions to the climate crisis.  
In Partnership, 
Robert Whitehair and Michelle Hudson,  
Co-Leaders of the San Mateo Climate Action Team
Dear Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Member Lee, Council Member Goethals, 
and Council Member Rodriguez, 
We call upon the City Council to formally adopt the following draft objective for FY2022-23: 
1. Establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure. Eliminate
methane gas by 2030. 
To fully understand all the implications of decarbonization policies, the undersigned believe that
extensive, focused public outreach to community groups, residents and businesses of San
Mateo is essential. An informed decision will be strong and enduring. Therefore, we request
that: 
2. Significant, additional staff time, budget resources and Council interest be devoted in
the coming year to extensive public outreach regarding decarbonization, to all
community members. 
Signed By: 
Elaine Salinger, Co-Leader, Citizens Climate Lobby, San Mateo County Chapter
Christine Kohl-Zaugg, Executive Director, Sustainable San Mateo County
Jennifer Thompson, Executive Director, Sustainable Silicon Valley
Diane Bailey, Menlo Spark, and Fossil Free Buildings Silicon Valley
Jin Soo Kim, Bay Area Youth Climate Action Team
Peri Plantenberg, Student Leader of Silicon Valley Youth Climate Action
Lauren Weston, Executive Director of Acterra: Action for a Healthy Planet
Robert M. Gould, MD, President, San Francisco Bay Physicians for Social Responsibility
Kathleen Goforth, Climate Reality Bay Area San Mateo County Policy Action
Cheryl Weiden, Board Member, 350 Silicon Valley
Jenny Green on behalf of Mothers Out Front Silicon Valley
Susan Butler-Graham, on behalf of Mothers Out Front Silicon Valley
Raayan Mohtashemi, Move San Mateo
Carlos Davidson, Pacifica Climate Committee

--- page 22 ---
Tom Kabat, Menlo Park Environmental Quality Commissioner
Kristel Wickham, Sunnyvale Sustainability Commission Chair
Nancy Schneider, Resident of the City of San Mateo, Leader of Rodfei Tzedek Social Justice
Committee of Peninsula Temple Beth El Congregation
John McKenna, Member organizing team “Code Red for Humanity: What Municipalities Can Do” 
Robert Whitehair, Resident of the City of San Mateo, Co-Leader, San Mateo Climate Action
Team
Michelle Hudson, Resident of the City of San Mateo, Co-Leader, San Mateo Climate Action
Team
Alan Mattlage, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Mary Rose LeBaron, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Dale Shintani, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Joel Scott, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Wendy Chou, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Carol Mason, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Marty Jordan, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Joan Donovan, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Petra Silton, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Leane Eberhart, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Marialena Malejan-Roussere, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Maureen K. Olson, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Amita Jain, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Joshua Wing, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Elise Wing, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Jonathan Wing, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Linda Ann Rarden, Resident of the City of San Mateo
David Prager, Resident of the City of San Mateo
James Higbie, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Michelle Mandel, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Vida Hayashigatani, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Kate Hayashigatani, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Lindsay Hayashigatani, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Claire Shintani, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Barbara Ruck Pavicic, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Eshal Naeem, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Mandy Yu, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Lana Levison, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Demetra Stamm, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Peter J. Paffrath, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Teri Whitehair, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Douglas McGlashan, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Guillermo D Cockrum, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Kelly Petersen, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Karen Kreidler, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Val Farrelly, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Belinda Chlouber, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Ralph King, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Niar Thorpe, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Libby Traubman, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Vivienne Scott, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Megan Strain, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Randi S Hutchinson, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Adam Loraine, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Jeremy Sonpar, Resident of the City of San Mateo

--- page 23 ---
Ted McKinnon, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Maggie Bobbin, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Liam O’Sullivan, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Adam Nugent, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Mina Bressler, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Robert Seeburger, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Susan Blockstein, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Dr. Darren Don, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Kristie Eglsaer, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Carol Steinfeld, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Teresa Rose, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Norma Formanek, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Dorothy A. Kogl, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Charlene G. Hogan, Resident of the City of San Mateo
Dr. Gary Trott, Resident of Unincorporated San Mateo
Joanne Trott
Chris W. Ketner
Jonathan Carter, MD
Veronica D. Fern
Kathy Battat
Mitchell C. Williams
Jeffrey Perrone
Róisín McElarney
Bruce Naegel
Debbie Mytels
Vivek Patkar
Barbara Fukumoto
Peter Scherer
Ann Harvey
Janice Cecil
Jean Tepperman
Sheila Tarbet
Kim Harvey
Donna Davies
David F. Gassman
Patricia H. Seffens
Megan Shumway
Jeffrey Mann, MD
David Kong
Maria Pinto
Linda Hutchins-Knowles
Marti Roach
Vivian Kong
Bret Andersen
Catharina Clark
Amanda Bancroft
Gary White
Judy C Kwee
Leah Redwood
Cecilia Lunaparra
Victoria Lin
Knox Kelly
Carl van Reis
Jo Crescent

--- page 24 ---
From: Libby Traubman < >  
Sent: Monday, March 28, 2022 2:09 PM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: local action for climate crisis
Dear Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Member Goethals, Council Member Lee, Council
Member Rodriguez and City Staff, 
It is my understanding that at your upcoming April 4th City Council meeting, the Consent Calendar will
include a proposed action item to formally adopt City objectives for FY2022- 23.  I have two requests: 
1 I respectfully request that the City Council pull the City objectives item from the consent calendar.  At
least one of the proposed objectives – decarbonization – is so significant that additional dl discussion is
necessary. 
2. I respectively call upon the City Council to approve the proposed objective to Establish policies to
decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure. Eliminate methane gas use by 2030. 
Decarbonization of existing buildings and infrastructure requires extensive, focused public outreach to
community groups, residents, and businesses of San Mateo. An informed decision that includes
workable electrification actions will be strong and enduring.  I therefore request that significant, 
additional staff time, budget resources and Council interest be devoted to extensive public outreach to
all community members. 
I believe that many San Mateo residents and businesses are ready to make the switch from fossil fuel
use to all-electric.  However, residents and business owners wanting to make the switch may have
difficulty understanding the relevant challenges and solutions.  That is why I believe that it is necessary
for City staff to support the following road map for success in this transition: 
Educate residents and businesses about
electrification – including health impacts from no action, and alternatives for new appliances and
equipment. 
Assess existing buildings' energy usage and electrification capabilities, to be prepared for the switch to
all-electric. 
Find funding mechanisms to pay for all-electric, such as rebates, on bill financing, grants, and other
workable funding solutions. 
Avoid stranded assets – anything not electric now will become obsolete very quickly.  At least
2,000 gas water heaters fail every year in San Mateo.  Replacing even one water heater or one gas
furnace with another gas unit extends climate- change- causing Carbon Dioxide, Methane and Nitrous
Oxide emissions for 12-15 years.  The world does not have that much time. 
Develop a strong work force – electrification will need many trained workers and savvy contractors. 
Thank you for giving this your serious attention, 
Libby Traubman

--- page 25 ---
From: Gary Trott 2 <gary_trott@comcast. net>  
Sent: Tuesday, March 29, 2022 9:34 AM
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org>; City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Cc: gary_trott@comcast. net
Subject: City Council Meeting 4-April
Dear Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Member Goethals, Council Member Lee, 
Council Member Rodriguez and City Staff, 
Re: Upcoming 4-April San Mateo City council meeting.  
I respectively call upon the City Council to approve the proposed objective to “Establish
policies to decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure. Eliminate methane gas use
by 2030.” 
Above all, it will take strong leadership at the city council level to help insure all individuals and
all business in San Mateo are engaged in the effort to mitigate climate change. Consider, it took
all of us, collectively, to arrive at this point were fossil emissions are affecting the global
climate.  Hence, the level of climate impact will be determined by what collective mitigation
efforts are achieved over the next several years.  
It will be a lot of very hard work. If we passively wait for others via reach codes etc, the work to
mitigate climate change will not get done in the needed time frame.    
Decarbonization of existing buildings and infrastructure requires extensive, focused public
outreach to community groups, residents, and businesses of San Mateo. An informed decision
that includes workable electrification actions will be strong and enduring.  I therefore request
that significant, additional staff time, budget resources and Council interest be devoted to
extensive public outreach to all community members. 
I believe that many San Mateo residents and businesses are ready to make the switch from
fossil fuel use to all-electric.  However, residents and business owners wanting to make the
switch may have difficulty understanding the relevant challenges and solutions.  That is why I
believe that it is necessary for City staff to support the following roadmap for success in this
transition: 
Educate residents and businesses about electrification – including health impacts from
no action, and alternatives for new appliances and equipment. 
Assess existing buildings’ energy usage and electrification capabilities, to be prepared
for the switch to all-electric. 
Find funding mechanisms to pay for all-electric, such as rebates, on bill financing, 
grants, and other workable funding solutions. 
Avoid stranded assets – anything not electric now will become obsolete very
quickly.  At least 2,000 gas water heaters fail every year in San Mateo.  Replacing even
one water heater or one gas furnace with another gas unit extends climate -change-
causing Carbon Dioxide, Methane and Nitrous Oxide emissions for 12-15 years.  The
world does not have that much time
Develop a strong workforce – electrification will need many trained workers and savvy
contractors. 
Thank you for your consideration of the above requests, and for your tremendous leadership in
developing local solutions to the climate crisis.  
Sincerely, Dr. Gary Trott,  Resident of San Mateo

--- page 26 ---
From: Robert Whitehair < >  
Sent: Tuesday, March 29, 2022 8:02 PM
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: For the Council: Decarbonization of Buildings and Infrastructure on City Council Agenda April 4, 
2022
Dear Mayor Bonilla, City of San Mateo Council Members and City Staff, 
Thank you for your strong leadership in developing local solutions to the climate crisis. I am
most impressed by your dedicated hard working staff. I want them and you to succeed in
completing direct, local action. The world is out of time. 
San Mateo is my home. You all know that my wife and I raised two sons here, and both are
proud graduates of Aragon High School. Teri and I have been active community volunteers, Teri
as founder of the Borel Middle School Cultural Fair and active in PTA. I was a Little League
coach at Trinta Park for 12 years, and in the last 5 years have been very active in housing and
climate crisis issues specifically on Reach Codes and as Vice Chair of Sustainable San Mateo
County.  
Together with other climate-concerned San Mateans, a very strong San Mateo Climate Action
Team is being built for a San Mateo climate crisis response. All of us are deeply concerned that
more needs to be done. 
Please approve Mayor Bonilla’s proposed objective to “Establish policies to decarbonize
existing buildings and infrastructure. Eliminate methane gas use by 2030.” 
Decarbonization of existing buildings and infrastructure requires extensive, focused public
outreach to community groups, residents, and businesses of San Mateo. An informed decision
that includes workable electrification actions will be strong and enduring.  
I therefore request that significant, additional staff time, budget resources and Council
interest be devoted to extensive public outreach to all community members. 
Sincerely,  
Robert Whitehair
San Mateo

--- page 27 ---
From: Darren Don < >  
Sent: Monday, March 28, 2022 7:45 PM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: 4/ 4 City Council meeting
Dear Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Member Goethals, Council Member Lee, 
Council Member Rodriguez and City Staff, 
It is my understanding that at your upcoming April 4th City Council meeting, the Consent
Calendar will include a proposed action item to formally adopt City objectives for FY2022 -23.  I
have two requests: 
1.  I respectfully request that the City Council pull the City objectives item from the consent
calendar.  At least one of the proposed objectives – decarbonization – is so significant that additional
discussion is necessary.   
2.  I respectively call upon the City Council to approve the proposed objective to “Establish
policies to decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure. Eliminate methane gas use by 2030.” 
Decarbonization of existing buildings and infrastructure requires extensive, focused public
outreach to community groups, residents, and businesses of San Mateo. An informed decision
that includes workable electrification actions will be strong and enduring.  I therefore request
that significant, additional staff time, budget resources and Council interest be devoted to
extensive public outreach to all community members. 
I believe that many San Mateo residents and businesses are ready to make the switch from
fossil fuel use to all-electric.  However, residents and business owners wanting to make the
switch may have difficulty understanding the relevant challenges and solutions.  That is why I
believe that it is necessary for City staff to support the following roadmap for success in this
transition: 
Educate residents and businesses about electrification – including health
impacts from no action, and alternatives for new appliances and equipment. 
Assess existing buildings’ energy usage and electrification capabilities, to be
prepared for the switch to all-electric. 
Find funding mechanisms to pay for all-electric, such as rebates, on bill
financing, grants, and other workable funding solutions. 
Avoid stranded assets – anything not electric now will become obsolete very
quickly.  At least 2,000 gas water heaters fail every year in San
Mateo.  Replacing even one water heater or one gas furnace with another gas
unit extends climate-change-causing Carbon Dioxide, Methane and Nitrous
Oxide emissions for 12-15 years.  The world does not have that much time
Develop a strong workforce – electrification will need many trained workers
and savvy contractors. 
Thank you for your consideration of the above requests, and for your tremendous leadership in
developing local solutions to the climate crisis.  
Sincerely, Darren Don, Resident of San Mateo

--- page 28 ---
From: Mary Rose LeBaron < >  
Sent: Sunday, March 27, 2022 2:41 PM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: Item on consent calendar
Dear Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Member Goethals, Council Member Lee, 
Council Member Rodriguez and City Staff, 
It is my understanding that at your upcoming April 4th City Council meeting, the Consent
Calendar will include a proposed action item to formally adopt City objectives for FY2022-23. I
have two requests: 
1. I respectfully request that the City Council pull the City objectives item from the consent
calendar. At least one of the proposed objectives – decarbonization – is so significant that
additional discussion is necessary.  
2. I respectively call upon the City Council to approve the proposed objective to “Establish
policies to decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure. Eliminate methane gas use
by 2030.” 
Decarbonization of existing buildings and infrastructure requires extensive, focused public
outreach to community groups, residents, and businesses of San Mateo. An informed decision
that includes workable electrification actions will be strong and enduring. I therefore request that
significant, additional staff time, budget resources and Council interest be devoted to extensive
public outreach to all community members. 
I believe that many San Mateo residents and businesses are ready to make the switch from
fossil fuel use to all-electric. However, residents and business owners wanting to make the
switch may have difficulty understanding the relevant challenges and solutions. That is why I
believe that it is necessary for City staff to support the following roadmap for success in this
transition: 
Educate residents and businesses about electrification – including health impacts from
no action, and alternatives for new appliances and equipment. 
Assess existing buildings’ energy usage and electrification capabilities, to be prepared
for the switch to all-electric. 
Find funding mechanisms to pay for all-electric, such as rebates, on bill financing, 
grants, and other workable funding solutions. 
Avoid stranded assets – anything not electric now will become obsolete very quickly. 
At least 2,000 gas water heaters fail every year in San Mateo. Replacing even one
water heater or one gas furnace with another gas unit extends climate-change-
causing Carbon Dioxide, Methane and Nitrous Oxide emissions for 12-15 years. The
world does not have that much time
Develop a strong workforce – electrification will need many trained workers and savvy
contractors. 
Thank you for your consideration of the above requests, and for your tremendous leadership in
developing local solutions to the climate crisis.  
Sincerely, 
Mary Rose LeBaron, Resident of San Mateo

--- page 29 ---
From: Nancy Schneider < >  
Sent: Monday, March 28, 2022 4:08 PM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: Decarbonization Objective 2022
Dear Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Member Goethals, Council Member Lee, 
Council Member Rodriguez and City Staff, 
It is my understanding that at your upcoming April 4th City Council meeting, the Consent
Calendar will include a proposed action item to formally adopt City objectives for FY2022 -23. I
have two requests: 
1. I respectfully request that the City Council pull the City objectives item from the consent
calendar. At least one of the proposed objectives – decarbonization – is so significant that
additional discussion is necessary.  
2. I respectively call upon the City Council to approve the proposed objective to “Establish
policies to decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure. Eliminate methane gas use
by 2030.” 
Decarbonization of existing buildings and infrastructure requires extensive, focused public
outreach to community groups, residents, and businesses of San Mateo. An informed decision
that includes workable electrification actions will be strong and enduring. I therefore request that
significant, additional staff time, budget resources and Council interest be devoted to extensive
public outreach to all community members. 
I believe that many San Mateo residents and businesses are ready to make the switch from
fossil fuel use to all-electric. However, residents and business owners wanting to make the
switch may have difficulty understanding the relevant challenges and solutions. That is why I
believe that it is necessary for City staff to support the following roadmap for success in this
transition: 
Educate residents and businesses about electrification – including health impacts from
no action, and alternatives for new appliances and equipment. 
Assess existing buildings’ energy usage and electrification capabilities, to be prepared
for the switch to all-electric. 
Find funding mechanisms to pay for all-electric, such as rebates, on bill financing, 
grants, and other workable funding solutions. 
Avoid stranded assets – anything not electric now will become obsolete very quickly. 
At least 2,000 gas water heaters fail every year in San Mateo. Replacing even one
water heater or one gas furnace with another gas unit extends climate-change-
causing Carbon Dioxide, Methane and Nitrous Oxide emissions for 12-15 years. The
world does not have that much time
Develop a strong workforce – electrification will need many trained workers and savvy
contractors. 
Thank you for your consideration of the above requests, and for your tremendous leadership in
developing local solutions to the climate crisis.  
Sincerely, 
Nancy Schneider, Resident of San Mateo

--- page 30 ---
From: Kristie Eglsaer < >  
Sent: Friday, April 1, 2022 9:21 PM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org>; Amourence Lee
alee@cityofsanmateo. org>; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo. org>; Eric Rodriguez
erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.
org>; Joe Goethals < jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.
org>; Rick Bonilla
RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.
org> 
Subject: Public comment in support of decarbonization
Dear City Council, 
Ahead of your 4/ 4 meeting, I am writing in support of the Council formally adopting the decarbonization
draft objective
for FY2022- 23: “ Establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure. Eliminate methane gas by 2030.”  
I am very much in favor of the switch from gas to electric. Last summer we had a gas leak at the duplex where we rent. 
Fortunately we just happened to open the door where the meters are and smelled it and the company came out right
away.  
And in the apartment complex where my mother lives she’s had two gas leaks in the last year and been awoken by her
carbon monoxide detector going off in the middle of the night.  
Neither of us are able to make the choice to switch from gas to electric on our own since we rent.  
Challenges
I understand these types of policy decisions are complex.  
For the idea to actually be implemented, I encourage the city to anticipate and get ahead of challenges to
implementation.  
Support Workforce Development
There is a skilled labor shortage. It would be great for the city to explore ways to support workforce development like
supporting job training programs starting in high school or providing child care support for those in training or on the
job. Also, the city could allow trainees to get hands- on on-the-job training during Public Works and other city projects.  
Find Funding
San Mateo should also explore grants from state or federal entities to support electrification. The Bipartisan
Infrastructure Bill includes funds to update the aging grid, install electric vehicle charging stations and support
electrification. This may require a local match in order to be eligible to receive a grant.  
Communicating what rebate programs exist that homeowners and building owners can tap into would also be very
helpful.  
Aging Electrical Grid, Reduce Demand and Retrofit
Palo Alto is facing the challenge of an aging electrical grid to meet their climate goals: 
https:// www.paloaltoonline. com/ print/ story/ 2022/ 03/ 11/ can-citys-aged-electric- grid-handle-climate- change- goals
San Mateo might not have this issue, but even if it does, just because decarbonization
needs a more modern grid does
not mean it shouldn’ t happen or that the policy should get the blame for the need to update a half-century old grid.  
In addition to investments for updating the grid, Palo Alto is considering switching to advanced metering infrastructure, 
or smart meters, to help reduce peak demand.  
San Mateo could also explore encouraging things like retrofitting older buildings so they use less energy in general.  
https://www.paloaltoonline.com/print/story/2022/03/11/can-citys-aged-electric-grid-handle-climate-

--- page 31 ---
I look forward to the city supporting the decarbonization objective.  
Thank you for considering my comments! 
Sincerely,  
Kristie Eglsaer
San Mateo resident
Baywood neighborhood

--- page 32 ---
From: D and M Shintani
Sent: Wednesday, March 30, 2022 10:37 PM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: For 4/ 4 meeting: Decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure and eliminate methane gas use by 2030
Dear Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Member Goethals, Council Member Lee, Council Member
Rodriguez and City Staff, 
It is my understanding that at your upcoming April 4th City Council meeting, the Consent Calendar will include
a proposed action item to formally adopt City objectives for FY2022-23.  I have two requests: 
1.  I respectfully request that the City Council pull the City objectives item from the consent calendar.  At least one
of the proposed objectives – decarbonization – is so significant that additional discussion is necessary.   
2.  I respectively call upon the City Council to approve the proposed objective to “Establish policies to
decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure. Eliminate methane gas use by 2030.” 
Decarbonization of existing buildings and infrastructure requires extensive, focused public outreach to
community groups, residents, and businesses of San Mateo. An informed decision that includes workable
electrification actions will be strong and enduring.  I therefore request that significant, additional staff time, 
budget resources and Council interest be devoted to extensive public outreach to all community members. 
I believe that many San Mateo residents and businesses are ready to make the switch from fossil fuel use to
all-electric.  However, residents and business owners wanting to make the switch may have difficulty
understanding the relevant challenges and solutions.  That is why I believe that it is necessary for City staff to
support the following roadmap for success in this transition: 
Educate residents and businesses about electrification – including health impacts from no
action, and alternatives for new appliances and equipment. 
Assess existing buildings’ energy usage and electrification capabilities, to be prepared for the
switch to all-electric. 
Find funding mechanisms to pay for all-electric, such as rebates, on bill financing, grants, and
other workable funding solutions. 
Avoid stranded assets – anything not electric now will become obsolete very quickly.  At
least 2,000 gas water heaters fail every year in San Mateo.  Replacing even one water heater
or one gas furnace with another gas unit extends climate -change-causing Carbon Dioxide, 
Methane and Nitrous Oxide emissions for 12-15 years.  The world does not have that much
time
Develop a strong workforce – electrification will need many trained workers and savvy
contractors. 
Thank you for your consideration of the above requests, and for your tremendous leadership in developing
local solutions to the climate crisis.  
Sincerely, 
Dale Shintani, Resident of San Mateo

--- page 33 ---
From: Claire < >  
Sent: Wednesday, March 30, 2022 10:40 PM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Subject: For 04/ 04 Meeting: Establish Policies to Decarbonize Existing Buildings and Infrastructure, Eliminate Methane
Gas Use
Dear Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Member Goethals, Council Member Lee, Council Member
Rodriguez and City Staff, 
It is my understanding that at your upcoming April 4th City Council meeting, the Consent Calendar will include
a proposed action item to formally adopt City objectives for FY2022-23.  I have two requests: 
1.  I respectfully request that the City Council pull the City objectives item from the consent calendar.  At least one
of the proposed objectives – decarbonization – is so significant that additional discussion is necessary.   
2.  I respectively call upon the City Council to approve the proposed objective to “Establish policies to
decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure. Eliminate methane gas use by 2030.” 
Decarbonization of existing buildings and infrastructure requires extensive, focused public outreach to
community groups, residents, and businesses of San Mateo. An informed decision that includes workable
electrification actions will be strong and enduring.  I therefore request that significant, additional staff time, 
budget resources and Council interest be devoted to extensive public outreach to all community members. 
I believe that many San Mateo residents and businesses are ready to make the switch from fossil fuel use to
all-electric.  However, residents and business owners wanting to make the switch may have difficulty
understanding the relevant challenges and solutions.  That is why I believe that it is necessary for City staff to
support the following roadmap for success in this transition: 
Educate residents and businesses about electrification – including health impacts from no
action, and alternatives for new appliances and equipment . 
Assess existing buildings’ energy usage and electrification capabilities, to be prepared for the
switch to all-electric. 
Find funding mechanisms to pay for all-electric, such as rebates, on bill financing, grants, and
other workable funding solutions. 
Avoid stranded assets – anything not electric now will become obsolete very quickly.  At
least 2,000 gas water heaters fail every year in San Mateo.  Replacing even one water heater
or one gas furnace with another gas unit extends climate -change-causing Carbon Dioxide, 
Methane and Nitrous Oxide emissions for 12-15 years.  The world does not have that much
time
Develop a strong workforce – electrification will need many trained workers and savvy
contractors. 
Thank you for your consideration of the above requests, and for your tremendous leadership in developing
local solutions to the climate crisis.  
Sincerely, 
Claire Shintani, Resident of San Mateo

--- page 34 ---
From: Dashiell Leeds < >  
Sent: Monday, April 4, 2022 5:40 PM
To: City Council ( San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo. org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo. org>; 
City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo. org> 
Cc: Barbara Kelsey < >; James Eggers < >; Gladwyn D'Souza < >; Mike Ferreira < > 
Subject: SCLP letter to City of San Mateo regarding the City Council Strategic Plan
Dear Mayor Bonilla and San Mateo City Councilmembers, 
The Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter supports San Mateo’ s objectives which aim to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions and remove fossil fuels from buildings. Fossil fuels, and gas use in
buildings in particular, are a major contributor to climate change and a significant infrastructure, 
cost and health liability to the City and community. The Loma Prieta Chapter applauds San
Mateo’ s goal to phase out fossil fuels, and we hope you adopt the City Council Strategic Plan
for FY 2022-2023, including strategic initiatives 27 and 28. 
Please see the attached letter for our full comments. 
Sincerely, 
Dashiell Leeds
Conservation Organizer
Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter

--- page 35 ---
sierraclub.org/loma-prieta ~ 3921 East Bayshore Road, Suite 204, Palo Alto, CA 94303
SAN MATEO, SANTA CLARA & SAN BENITO COUNTIES
March 4, 2022
City of San Mateo
330 W 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
RE: Agenda Item 21. City Council Strategic Plan - Adoption
Dear Mayor Bonilla and San Mateo City Councilmembers, 
The Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter supports San Mateo’s objectives which aim to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions and remove fossil fuels from buildings. Fossil fuels, and gas use in
buildings in particular, are a major contributor to climate change and a significant infrastructure, 
cost and health liability to the City and community. The Loma Prieta Chapter applauds San
Mateo’s goal to phase out fossil fuels, and we hope you adopt the City Council Strategic Plan
for FY 2022-2023, including strategic initiatives 27 and 28. 
27. Establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure and eliminate
methane gas use by 2030. 
28. Implement the Climate Action Plan and work to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.” 1
As San Mateo moves forward with its decarbonization initiatives, it should do so in a manner
that embraces the need for community education and equity protections. The City should
educate residents and businesses about electrification and the need for rapid decarbonization. 
San Mateo should also develop a workforce capable of making this transition by educating them
on the most updated decarbonization methods and technologies, with special attention to
workers in the buildings sector. The City should explore funding avenues and policy solutions
such as rebates and anti-displacement policies) to support electrification programs and policies
with strong equity protections. 
Sincerely, 
Dashiell Leeds
Conservation Organizer
Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter
1 Initiative text from the San Mateo City Council Strategic Plan. Council Focus Area: Framing the Future. 
Strategic Initiatives: Social Leadership.