--- page 1 ---
March 13, 2026
 
Hello Council,
Here are the latest updates from staff this week:
2026 FIFA World Cup Update
Planned Power Outage for Beresford Rec Center on March 23
2026 YAC Attack Brings Together Youth Voices from Across the Region
SMPD Update on Homicide Conviction and ALPR's
Planning Commission Approves 230 S. El Camino Real
Gateway Commons Update
Japanese Garden Closed due to Tree Work
Wastewater Treatment Plant Administration Building Infrastructure Update
Thank you!
Alex
City Manager's Office
2026 FIFA World Cup Update
Staff is planning a pedestrian mall activation tied to the U.S.
FIFA match on Friday, June 12. The event will focus on fun
and games and business promotions.
On Thursday, June 25, staff will coordinate live streaming of
another U.S. match alongside Music in the Park. If the U.S.
team advances and appears likely to reach the finals, staff
will organize an additional pedestrian mall activation on July
1 (no streaming).
These events are intended to encourage community gathering downtown and support
businesses through coordinated promotions and activities with the Chamber, DSMA, and local
merchants.

--- page 2 ---
Planned Power Outage for Beresford Rec Center on March 23
Beresford Recreation Center, the Garden Center and Beresford Park will have a planned power
outage Monday, March 23, from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. for project work related to the recently installed
solar carports.
Most morning programs at the Beresford Recreation Center will conclude before the shutdown.
One scheduled program will pause or relocate during this time. Staff will notify affected
participants and relocate the program to another facility during the outage.
PG&E will require one additional power outage when a new transformer is installed at the site.
Staff are working closely with PCE, PG&E and the solar contractor to coordinate next steps and
minimize disruption to Recreation Center and park users.
City Clerk's Office
2026 YAC Attack Brings Together Youth Voices from Across
the Region
On Saturday, March 7, San Mateo’s Youth Activities Council (YAC) joined YAC members from
San Mateo, San Francisco and Santa Clara counties for the 2026 YAC Attack. Made up of high
school students, these youth councils came together for a day of civic engagement, leadership
and meaningful conversation.
San Mateo Mayor Adam Loraine and City Manager Alex Khojikian participated as panelists,
giving students the opportunity to ask thoughtful questions about public service and local
government. Topics included what inspired them to pursue careers in government, how they
balance personal values with the responsibilities of their roles, the policies and projects they are
most proud to have worked on, their top priorities for improving the community, what they enjoy
most about their jobs and advice for high school students interested in getting involved in
government.
A key message shared throughout the discussion was the importance of getting involved early.
Panelists encouraged students to explore volunteer opportunities, internships, temporary
positions and to participate in local government by attending City Council meetings and serving
on boards and commissions.
Events like YAC Attack help inspire the next generation of civic participants by giving young
people a direct opportunity to connect with local government and see how their voices can make
a difference in the community.

--- page 3 ---
Police Department
SMPD Update on Homicide Conviction and ALPR's
On August 4, 2024, a mother and her unborn baby were murdered by her boyfriend in her home
on S. B St. The deceased was discovered by her 10-year-old daughter. During the early stages
of the homicide investigation, officers had limited suspect information and only knew the suspect
was associated with a gray Acura SUV.
Witnesses reported that the vehicle had a license plate frame with a distinctive pink border, but
the actual license plate number was unknown. Officers used automatic license plate reader
(ALPR) cameras to search for captured vehicle images within the relevant time frame and area.
By filtering vehicles matching the make, model and color, officers located a gray Acura SUV
displaying the distinctive pink border around the license plate frame. The ALPR system captured
the vehicle’s license plate and confirmed it was registered to the homicide victim. This allowed
officers to verify the vehicle’s involvement in the investigation and associate the boyfriend with
the crime.
With the license plate identified, officers searched the ALPR database for additional vehicle hits.
The results showed the Acura traveling away from the crime scene shortly after the homicide and
continuing southbound from Northern California toward Southern California. Detectives entered
the vehicle into the system as “wanted” so officers would be alerted if it was detected again.
Soon afterward, the ALPR system alerted an officer from a Southern California law enforcement
agency that the vehicle — and the subject driving it — was nearby. The vehicle was located and
the homicide suspect was apprehended.
ALPR data assisted investigators in establishing premeditation by showing the suspect actively
searching for the victim before the homicide, documenting the suspect leaving the scene after
the homicide, and ultimately helping locate and apprehend the suspect. Detective Josephine
Bardina served as the lead investigator and became intimately knowledgeable about the Flock
camera system, spending many hours on the stand testifying about ALPRs during the 22-day
jury trial.
After three days of deliberation, just last week the suspect was convicted of two counts of
second-degree murder — one count for the mother and another for the unborn baby.
This is the second homicide in San Mateo in which license plate reader cameras have assisted
investigators in solving the crime. The other was the 2020 homicide at the Wells Fargo on W.
Hillsdale Blvd.
 
Jury convicts San Mateo man of murder in pregnant girlfriend's killing - CBS San
Francisco
San Mateo girl, 10, found slain mother’s body: prosecutors | KRON4
Community Development
Planning Commission Approves 230 S. El Camino Real

--- page 4 ---
On March 10, 2026, the Planning Commission considered and approved a development
application for a five-story mixed-use building at 230 S. El Camino Real. The project includes
ground-floor commercial space, 28 for-sale condominium units — including four affordable units
for moderate-income households — and 16 parking spaces.
During the hearing, members of the public raised concerns about the lack of on-site parking and
the project’s architectural style. Commissioners discussed aspects of the project design and
expressed support for redeveloping a prominent intersection that has remained vacant for more
than 10 years, noting that the project would add for-sale housing and include affordable units.
Commissioners also noted that the proposed density is below the maximum allowed and
encouraged future projects to take advantage of the maximum permitted density to deliver more
housing.
The motion to approve the project passed 4–0, with one commissioner absent (attending the
League of Cities Planning Commissioner’s Academy).
Additional information about the project can be viewed on the City's Current
Development page.
Gateway Commons Update
Gateway Commons is a condominium complex for low- and moderate-income first-time
homebuyers, built in 1989 and located at 211 and 221 S. Fremont St. in San Mateo. The original
buyers of the 96 units at Gateway Commons received second loans from the City, and the units
had a 40-year affordability term. Over the years, units that were sold renewed their affordability
term under new resale restriction agreements and loan terms, keeping many units in the City’s
Below Market Rate (BMR) portfolio.
Last fall, the City was informed that a lender had denied a qualified buyer a mortgage to
purchase a unit at Gateway Commons. The lender’s due diligence found that repairs identified in
a Senate Bill 326 (SB 326) inspection report — commissioned by the complex’s homeowners
association (HOA) in 2021 — had not been completed.
SB 326 obligates HOAs to perform inspections of balconies and other exterior structural
elements. The law requires a qualified inspector to submit a report to the association board

--- page 5 ---
describing the physical condition and remaining useful life of the structures and associated
waterproofing systems, and it requires HOAs to complete necessary repairs.
In response, the City will send a letter to the Gateway Commons Owners Association (GCOA)
notifying them that, based on the inspection report, some of the repairs require immediate
attention.
The letter informs the GCOA that it must take immediate action to address the issues identified in
the report. If these issues are not addressed, the Building Official may need to red tag the
affected locations (i.e., raised deck spaces). The letter also states that the lack of action in
response to the 2021 inspection report is affecting the City’s First-Time Homebuyer (FTB)
Program, as eligible buyers are being denied the opportunity to purchase units at the complex
and current owners are unable to sell their units as planned.
After sending the letter to GCOA, staff will continue providing periodic updates to City Council on
conditions at Gateway Commons.
Parks and Recreation
Japanese Garden Closed Due to
Tree Work
The Japanese Garden will be closed for tree
pruning from Monday, March 30 through Friday,
April 3, 2026.
Signage will be placed on site and messaging
regarding the closure will be shared through eNews
and social media.
Public Works
Wastewater Treatment Plant Administration Building
Infrastructure Update
The Wastewater Treatment Plant Administration Building recently experienced several
stormwater and sanitary sewer leaks. Investigative work following the discovery of these leaks
identified pipe separations in the utility lines located beneath the building’s concrete slab. 
While the building is supported by piles and remains structurally stable, preliminary findings
suggest the drain lines were not sufficiently secured to account for anticipated soil settlement.
Staff is currently working with consultants to develop a permanent design solution to secure the
lines against future movement and ensure the long-term integrity of the system.
In the interim, the facility remains functional, with use of the upstairs restrooms and kitchen
facilities expected to continue. Staff is currently evaluating whether supplemental portable
facilities will be necessary to support onsite operations until a permanent repair is implemented.
Follow us on social media & stay engaged

--- page 6 ---
Share This Email
 
Share This Email
 
Share This Email
City of San Mateo | 330 West 20th Avenue | San Mateo, CA 94403 US
Unsubscribe | Update Profile | Our Privacy Policy | Constant Contact Data Notice