--- page 1 ---
June 20, 2025
Hello, here are the latest updates from staff this week:
City Hosts First Staff Town Hall Meetings
Good Funding News
Verkada Cameras
Parkside Montessori
Economic Development
Thank you!
Alex
City Manager's Office
City Hosts First Staff Town Hall Meetings
I hosted the City's first staff Town Hall meetings this week, which received positive feedback
about how we're being transparent about what's going on behind-the-scenes and how we're
inviting everyone to have a voice in offering ideas to help streamline services and budget. As an
incentive, we announced that we are offering a variety of prizes for the best ideas.

--- page 2 ---
During the first town hall on June 17, which was online, we reminded the team about our vision,
and shared updates on accomplishments across departments, including human resources and
finance. We also offered information on our strategic goals and objectives for FY 2025-26, and
reassured them that we are developing a strong fiscal sustainability plan to help us navigate
economic uncertainties.
At the end of the online presentation, which attracted 165 staff, we held a Q&A session, where
most questions centered around budget, from their implications on staffing to how we can raise
revenues and obtain grants. We explained that we have enough in reserves to get us through
the short term, but we need to start streamlining strategically now to prepare for any economic
changes. I also reiterated that we will share the financial sustainability plan with staff so they can
see we're leaving no stone unturned in finding long-term budget solutions.
We hosted similar in-person town halls on June 18 at Park Yard and Corporation Yard, with
another coming up next week on June 25 at the Wastewater Treatment Plant. During the June
18 meetings, most questions centered around plans for their facilities and the information in the
presentation.
Due to the success of the town halls, we plan to do these again next year, to help build
transparency, trust and a unified vision. If you'd like to watch the video, please click the button
below.
Watch the Video
Library
Good Funding News

--- page 3 ---
In partnership with the St. James Foundation, the African American Library Advisory Committee
(AALAC) secured $10,000 from the Silicon Valley Community Foundation. AALAC was hoping to
use the grant to fund either a reading from one of the actors from the Lorraine Hansberry
Theatre or a culinary program with a local chef as keynote speaker. The grant will be used to
support arts and cultural programming at the Main Library. 
The San Mateo Public Library Foundation (SMPLF) will award the library a check for $200,000
this year. This is the highest grant the SMPLF has made to the library in over five years due to
the downturn in fundraising after COVID. They also raised $45,000 (out of a $60,000 goal) to
help fund the summer learning program. This program was previously funded by Measure K.
Over the past year, the SMPLF made efforts to grow their donor base and reach a wider
segment of the community. From FY 24-25 to FY 25-26, the number of individual donors went
from 401 to 513, representing a 28% increase. The SMPLF recently restructured their operations
to enable the two development directors on staff to spend more time cultivating relationships with
high net worth individuals and pursuing grants. There are several committees for the SMPLF
Executive Board to participate in and the hope is that their work will free up staff to focus more
on direct fundraising.
The Peninsula Library System consortium received a Measure K grant from Jackie
Speier's office for $50,000. The goal of the grant is to bring people of all ages and backgrounds
together in a trusted environment where they can explore, learn, and connect. The goal for these
programs is to help seniors in particular overcome loneliness and social isolation. An ad hoc
committee is being formed to figure out a plan for the grant, and we are planning to participate in
the committee. 
Police
Verkada Cameras
Both the Police Department and Parks and Recreation have been collaborating on the purchase
of Verkada security cameras to be installed at City park facilities. The purchase process is
nearing the end, but in the meantime, one portable camera system has been deployed at the
King Center (photos below). A similar system has also been deployed at the Hillsdale Shopping
Center (photo below). The portable systems allow us to move them to different locations to
monitor different types of situations and events. The King Center portable system will remain in
place until the permanent cameras are installed.
As you know, security cameras have become a vital part of our crime fighting abilities and the
extra set of "eyes" they provide to us has become invaluable. With their use, our Real Time
Information Center (RTIC) operators can provide our officers with a live account of the
happenings in a given area where cameras are installed, and access is granted to us. And, in
some cases, we can use them to track suspect movement as well as get eyes on these locations
before officers even arrive on the scene.
Through San Mateo Connect and the Axon Fusus system, we are asking residents and business
owners to share their cameras with us so that we can have a broader viewing base. The
Neighborhood Eyes Security Team aka NEST camera registration system we've used in the past
have been renamed San Mateo Connect to allow for the new integration. You can visit San
Mateo Connect here.
The portable King Center camera has caught the eye of a reporter for the Daily Journal, so we
can anticipate further inquiry about it soon. If you have any questions about RTIC, please reach
out to us so we can provide you further information in case you are asked.

--- page 4 ---
Community Development
Parkside Montessori
The Parkside Montessori project at 1685 Eisenhower Street has entered the final phase of its
more disruptive construction activities. Demolition and trenching work are nearly complete, and
the project is transitioning into concrete placement and paving over the coming weeks.
The areas most affected by construction activity are along Eisenhower Street between Halsey
Avenue and Wellesley Avenue, as well as the rear property lines adjacent to Wellesley Avenue.
The Eisenhower Street work involves a full reconstruction of the student drop-off and pick-up
area, which is designed to enhance both traffic circulation and pedestrian safety. Work at the rear
of the site includes completion of the school’s track, associated concrete flatwork, and final
grading for rainwater runoff management.

--- page 5 ---
Economic Development
Rite Aid Bankruptcy and Closure of the Rite Aid location in
Laurelwood Shopping Center
The City Manager's office recieved a WARN notice regarding Rite Aid's closure at the
Laurelwood Shopping Center location as part of its ongoing bankruptcy proceedings. 
Key details:
Lease Surrender: Expected by August 31
Prescription Transfers: To CVS Crystal Springs location by July 20
Store Liquidation: July 21 – August 20
Rite Aid employees were only notified earlier this week. NOVA, the local workforce development
board, has contacted the union employees to offer job placement assistance. Rite Aid has
approximately four years remaining on the lease. As part of the bankruptcy process, the
remaining lease will be sold as part of an auction. Typical replacement tenants in such scenarios
include value-focused retailers (e.g., Dollar Tree, Dollar General, Ross).
Staff has spoken with the property owner (Carsten Properties) to offer support for retenanting the
site, if it is returned to the landlord. Carsten Properties which also owns BelMateo Shopping
Center, has no current plans to redevelop either site for mixed-use.
Follow us on social media & stay engaged
  
  
  
Share This Email
 
Share This Email
 
Share This Email
City of San Mateo | 330 West 20th Avenue | San Mateo, CA 94403 US
Unsubscribe | Update Profile | Our Privacy Policy | Constant Contact Data Notice