source: packet.pdf
sha256: ecaa2d53e181415ba3d5e9b54c3908d022802276208f805972ee15f90982df62
pages: 42
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
SAN MATEO – FOSTER CITY
PUBLIC FINANCING AUTHORITY
October 22, 2020
6:00 PM 
MEMBERS 
Eric Rodriguez, San Mateo Council, Chair
Sam Hindi, Foster City Council, Vice Chair
Drew Corbett, City Manager, San Mateo
Dante Hall, Interim City Manager, Foster City
REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS – 
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN‐PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: SMFC­PFA Meeting 10/22/20
To join via telephone: (408) 638­0968
Conference ID:  820 5744 4108       Passcode: 397288
ROLL CALL
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Board to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Meeting Minutes ‐ Approval
Approve the minutes of the San Mateo ‐ Foster City Public Financing Authority Regular Meeting of October 8,
2020.
2.
Clean Water Program Costs – Loan Approval
Adopt a Resolution to approve documents and actions relating to a San Mateo – Foster City Public Financing
Authority Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act Loan.
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to staff a “Request to Speak” form. State law
prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Your comments may be referred to staff for further
review.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission request for scheduling future items.
‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website 72 hours before each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on
the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org. Any supplemental material distributed after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply):
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: rlee@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
1 of 42

--- page 2 ---
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the ZOOM meeting. All attendees are
muted by default. To speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: (408) 638‐0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide
your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to
participate in this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522‐7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours
prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 42

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3769
TO:
San Mateo - Foster City Public Financing Authority
FROM:
Rich Lee
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
October 22, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Meeting Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the San Mateo - Foster City Public Financing Authority Regular Meeting of October 8, 2020.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Regular Meeting Minutes of October 8, 2020
STAFF CONTACT
Erin Fellers, Assistant to the City Clerk
efellers@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7066
3 of 42

--- page 4 ---
San Mateo - Foster City Public Financing Authority Meeting Minutes – 10/08/20 
Page 1 
MEMBERS 
Eric Rodriguez, San Mateo Council, Chair 
Sam Hindi, Foster City Council, Vice Chair 
Drew Corbett, City Manager, San Mateo 
Dante Hall, Interim City Manager, Foster City 
City of San Mateo  
Regular Meeting Minutes 
San Mateo – Foster City 
Public Financing Authority 
 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
  
Thursday, October 8, 2020 
Remote 6:00 PM 
Regular Meeting 
  
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency. 
  
Pledge of Allegiance 
 
Roll Call 
 
 
Remote: Eric Rodriguez, Sam Hindi, Drew Corbett 
 
Absent: Dante Hall 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
There were no speakers. 
 
NEW BUSINESS 
1. 
Basic Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 
San Mateo Finance Director Rich Lee presented an overview of the basic financial statements for the fiscal year 
ending June 30, 2020 and summarized statement of revenues, expenses, changes in net positions, and notable 
events.      
There were no questions from the board members. Public Comment – there were no speakers. 
Motion to accept and file the basic financial statements for the San Mateo - Foster City Public Financing Authority 
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020. Motion passes 3-0. 
 
Moved: Hindi Seconded: Corbett 
Ayes:  
Rodriguez, Hindi, Corbett 
Noes:  
None 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Rich Lee reminded the board that the next scheduled meeting will take place on October 22, 2020 for consideration of 
WIFIA Loan Agreements. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
The meeting adjourned at 6:10 p.m. 
 
 
4 of 42

--- page 5 ---
San Mateo - Foster City Public Financing Authority Meeting Minutes – 10/08/20 
Page 2 
 
APPROVED BY: 
SUBMITTED BY: 
 
 
                                                            
                                                               
Eric Rodriguez, Chair  
Erin Fellers, Assistant to the City Clerk 
  
 
 
5 of 42

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3719
TO:
San Mateo - Foster City Public Financing Authority
FROM:
Rich Lee
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
October 22, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Clean Water Program Costs – Loan Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve documents and actions relating to a San Mateo – Foster City Public Financing Authority 
Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act Loan.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo (City) and the City of Foster City/Estero Municipal Improvement District (District) are co-owners of a 
wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) operated by the City of San Mateo. Ownership and operation are governed pursuant 
to an operating joint exercise of powers agreement. Under that agreement, as amended, the City pays 75.88% and the 
District pays 25.12% of the capital costs associated with WWTP improvements. 
In 2009, the Regional Water Quality Control Board issued Cease and Desist Order Number R2-2009-0020 requiring the City, 
the Town of Hillsborough, and the Crystal Springs County Sanitation District to take specific actions to eliminate the 
occurrence of sanitary sewer overflows. In order to comply with the Cease and Desist Order, the City developed a 
preliminary 10-year Integrated Wastewater Master Plan (Clean Water Program) calling for a major upgrade to the WWTP 
and improvements to the City’s collection system. Current estimated costs for all improvements are approximately $1 
billion. The City’s share is $854 million, of which $340.6 million is for collection and $513.9 million is for the WWTP. The 
$513.9 million includes the shares attributable to Hillsborough ($30.8 million), the Crystal Springs County Sanitation 
District ($13.6 million) and the County of San Mateo ($760,000) (collectively, the Regional Customers). The Regional 
Customers will repay the City over time for their respective shares via an annual capacity charge. The District’s share is 
$157.5 million. 
The City and the District will require financing to complete these improvements. The City and the District established the 
Authority in 2016 to facilitate the financing of both agencies’ capital contributions to the WWTP upgrade project. The 
Authority may be used by either member to facilitate any capital financing. 
The following table shows current estimated Clean Water Program sources and uses of funds. 
6 of 42

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
WIFIA LOANS 
The City and the City of San Mateo were invited to submit a loan application for WWTP funding in an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $277.2 million under the WIFIA loan program administered by the EPA for the WWTP upgrade costs. The 
City’s maximum loan authorization under this program for the WWTP is $210,339,360. The District’s maximum loan 
authorization is $66,860,640. Final loan approvals are expected on October 12, and the loans are expected to close on 
October 30. The loans are sufficient to fund the City and District’s WWTP capital obligations until 2023, at which time an 
SRF loan is expected to be available. If the SRF loan does not come through, the Authority could sell additional revenue 
bonds. The WIFIA term sheets, which describe key business aspects of the WIFIA Loans, are attached to this report. The 
WIFIA term sheets for the City and the District are substantially identical. 
REQUIRED APPROVALS 
The resolution before the Board today consents to the Authority entering into two WIFIA loan agreements with the EPA, 
one in the maximum amount of $210,339,360 for the City and the other in the maximum amount of $66,860,640 for the 
District, and selling bonds to the EPA evidencing the Authority’s repayment obligation under each loan agreement, 
approves a WIFIA term sheet for each agency that describes key business aspects of each WIFIA Loan, and approves two 
financing agreements, each of which documents a loan from the Authority to the City and the District, respectively, which 
loans will be pledged to the EPA and which will provide the Authority sources of revenue to repay its loans from the EPA. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Authority is a conduit financing authority. Each loan from the EPA is secured separately with a financing agreement 
between the Authority and the City and District, respectively. Debt service on each financing agreement will mirror debt 
service on the WIFIA loan agreement which it secures. The Authority will incur expenses to secure this source of financing. 
Each Authority member will pay its pro rata share of these expenses. The Authority will not incur unreimbursed expenses 
or debt service in connection with these loans.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
These loan agreements are not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
7 of 42

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Resolution Approving Documents and Actions Relating to two San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority 
WIFIA Loans (Clean Water Program) 
Att 2 - WIFIA Term Sheet for City
Att 3 - WIFIA Term Sheet for District
STAFF CONTACT
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
8 of 42

--- page 9 ---
Shearman Comments 9/15/2020
3475651.3 044435  RSIND
RESOLUTION NO. ____
RESOLUTION OF THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE SAN MATEO-
FOSTER CITY PUBLIC FINANCING AUTHORITY APPROVING TWO WIFIA 
LOANS TO PROVIDE FINANCING FOR CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS TO 
WASTEWATER FACILITIES, AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY OF 
TWO REVENUE BONDS (WIFIA LOANS), AND APPROVING  
RELATED FINANCING DOCUMENTS AND OFFICIAL ACTIONS
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (the “City”) and the Estero Municipal Improvement 
District (the “District,” and together with the City, the “Members”) previously entered into that 
certain Joint Powers Agreement Between the City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal 
Improvement District for Operation of the City of San Mateo Wastewater Treatment Plant and 
Construction of Capital Improvements Under the Clean Water Program, dated April 17, 2017, as 
amended by an “Amendment to the Joint Powers Agreement Between the City of San Mateo and 
the Estero Municipal Improvement District for Operation of the City of San Mateo Wastewater 
Treatment Plant and Construction of Capital Improvements under the Clean Water Program” dated 
February 19, 2019 (as it may be further amended from time to time hereafter, the 
“Construction/Operation JPA Agreement”); and 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Construction/Operation JPA Agreement, the District and the 
City jointly own certain wastewater treatment, conveyance and disposal facilities from the point 
of entry of the influent sewage lines into the City of San Mateo Wastewater Treatment Plant (the 
“Treatment Plant”) to the effluent outfall point in the San Francisco Bay, including associated 
buildings that are used for treatment of wastewater to comply with regulatory requirements 
(referred to as the “Jointly Owned Facilities” in the Construction/Operation JPA Agreement); and
WHEREAS, the sanitary sewer collection and conveyance systems independently owned 
by the City and the District that deliver sewage to the Treatment Plant are not Jointly Owned 
Facilities and are not subject to the Construction/Operation JPA Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Construction/Operation JPA Agreement provides that the City and the 
District may enter into an agreement to provide sewer services to areas outside of their respective 
service boundaries as long as such agreement does not cause the City or the District to exceed its 
“Purchased Capacity” (as defined in the Construction/Operation JPA Agreement). The City has 
entered into that certain Sanitary Sewage Agreement Between the Town of Hillsborough, City of 
San Mateo, Crystal Springs County Sanitation District, and the County of San Mateo, dated 
July 18, 1989 (as it may be amended from time to time, the “Additional Capacity Use Agreement”; 
the Town of Hillsborough, the Crystal Springs County Sanitation District, and the County of San 
Mateo, are referred to as the “Additional Capacity Users”); and
WHEREAS, in order to provide a mechanism by which (i) the improvement of the Jointly 
Owned Facilities could be jointly financed and each of the City and the District would be solely 
responsible for its share of the costs, (ii) each of the City and the District could finance the costs 
of its own collection and transmission system and (iii) each of the Additional Capacity Users that 
9 of 42

--- page 10 ---
2
3475651.3 044435  RSIND
are members of the Authority (if any) could finance a share of the capital costs attributable to its 
use of the Jointly Owned Facilities and its own collection and transmissions system, the Members 
entered into a Joint Exercise of Powers Agreement on February 29, 2016, which was amended on 
April 24, 2020 (the “Joint Powers Agreement”), under which the San Mateo-Foster City Public 
Financing Authority (the “Authority”) has been organized as a joint powers authority which is a 
public entity separate and apart from the Members; and
WHEREAS, the Members are undertaking capital improvements to the Jointly Owned 
Facilities in compliance with (i) Cease and Desist Order No. R2-2009-0020, (ii) the National 
Pollution Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”) permit for the Jointly Owned Facilities and 
(iii) the Integrated Wastewater Master Plan dated October 2014 prepared by Carollo Engineers.  
Such capital improvements include the modification of the Treatment Plant to replace and repair 
aging infrastructure, provide capacity for wet weather flows to eliminate wastewater treatment 
plant effluent blending, produce a higher quality effluent, enhance system reliability, and support 
sustainability goals (the “Project”). The Project includes new liquid stream treatment facilities with 
preliminary, primary, secondary, and tertiary treatment facilities to meet more stringent National 
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit limits, including with respect to nutrient 
removal, and support future Title 22 reuse.  It also includes new on-site flow equalization capacity 
to manage wet weather flows; and
WHEREAS, the Members have asked the Authority to provide financing for a portion of 
the costs of the Project by entering into a loan with each Member (the “City WIFIA Loan” and the 
“District WIFIA Loan”, respectively, and together, the “WIFIA Loans”) with the United States 
Environmental Protection Agency, acting by and through the Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency (the “USEPA”) pursuant to the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation 
Act (“WIFIA”), § 5021 et seq. of Public Law 113-121 (as amended by Public Law 114-94, Public 
Law 114-322 and Public Law 115-270) (the “Act”), codified as 33 U.S.C. §§ 3901-3914; and  
WHEREAS, in order to evidence the WIFIA Loans, the Authority desires to authorize the 
issuance of its [San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority 2020A Wastewater Revenue 
Bond (City WIFIA Loan)] (the “City WIFIA Bond”) and its [San Mateo-Foster City Public 
Financing Authority 2020B Wastewater Revenue Bond (District WIFIA Loan)] (the “District 
WIFIA Bond” and together, the “WIFIA Bonds”), under the provisions of Article 4 (commencing 
with Section 6584) of Chapter 5 of Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code of the State of 
California (the “Bond Law”). The maximum principal amount of the City WIFIA Bond shall not 
exceed $210,339,360 and interest shall accrue on the City WIFIA Bond at the interest rates and be 
payable on the dates as provided therein and in the City WIFIA Loan Agreement (defined below).  
The maximum principal amount of the District WIFIA Bond shall not exceed $66,860,640 and 
interest shall accrue on the District WIFIA Bond at the interest rates and be payable on the dates 
as provided therein and in the District WIFIA Loan Agreement (defined below); and
WHEREAS, the USEPA has provided a description of the terms of the WIFIA Loans in 
the WIFIA Loan Term Sheets (the “WIFIA Term Sheets”) which constitute (a) the approval of the 
USEPA of the application for credit assistance of the Authority received October 18, 2019 (the 
“Application”) and (b) the agreement of USEPA to provide financing for the Project in the form 
of the WIFIA Loans on terms and conditions acceptable to USEPA contained therein; and
10 of 42

--- page 11 ---
3
3475651.3 044435  RSIND
WHEREAS the Authority, the District and the City have caused forms of a Financing 
Agreement between the Authority and each Member to be presented to this Governing Board (the 
“City Financing Agreement” and the “District Financing Agreement” and collectively, the 
“Financing Agreements”); and
WHEREAS, there has been submitted to the Governing Board forms of the WIFIA Term 
Sheets and WIFIA Loan Agreements (defined below); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Government Code Section 5852.1, certain information relating 
to the WIFIA Bonds is set forth in Exhibit A attached to this Resolution, and such information is 
hereby disclosed and made public; and
WHEREAS, the Governing Board wishes to take its action at this time authorizing 
execution and delivery of the Financing Agreements, the WIFIA Term Sheets, the WIFIA Loan 
Agreements and the issuance and delivery of the WIFIA Bonds and approving related financing 
documents and official actions; and
WHEREAS, concurrently with the execution and delivery of the Financing Agreements, 
the Authority will issue the City WIFIA Bond pursuant to the WIFIA Loan Agreement among the 
Authority, the USEPA and the City (the “City WIFIA Loan Agreement”) and the WIFIA Bond 
pursuant to the WIFIA Loan Agreement among the Authority, the USEPA and the District (the 
“District WIFIA Loan Agreement” and together with the City WIFIA Loan Agreement, the 
“WIFIA Loan Agreements”).
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Governing Board of the San Mateo-
Foster City Public Financing Authority as follows:
Section 1.
Findings of Benefit.  Pursuant to Section 6586 of the Bond Law, the 
Governing Board hereby finds that there are significant public benefits in assisting the Members 
to finance their allocable shares of the costs of the Project through the issuance of the WIFIA 
Bonds.  Such benefits include, but are not limited to, demonstrable savings in effective interest 
rates, bond underwriting costs, and bond issuance costs.
Section 2.
Authorization of Bonds.  The Governing Board hereby authorizes the 
issuance of the WIFIA Bonds under the Bond Law for the purpose of providing financing for the 
costs of the Project, in the amount of not to exceed $210,339,360 (with respect to the City WIFIA 
Bond) and $66,860,640 (with respect to the District WIFIA Bond).  The WIFIA Bonds shall be 
issued under the WIFIA Loan Agreements which are approved pursuant to Section 3. 
Section 3.
Approval of Related Financing Agreements, WIFIA Term Sheets and 
WIFIA Loan Agreements.  The Governing Board hereby approves each of the following 
agreements required for the issuance and sale of the WIFIA Bonds and the financing of the Project, 
in substantially the respective forms on file with the Secretary together with any changes therein 
or additions thereto deemed advisable by the Treasurer-Auditor-Controller, whose execution 
thereof shall be conclusive evidence of the approval of any such changes or additions.  The 
Treasurer-Auditor-Controller is hereby authorized and directed for and in the name and on behalf 
of the Authority to execute, and the Secretary is hereby authorized and directed to attest the final 
form of each such agreement:
11 of 42

--- page 12 ---
4
3475651.3 044435  RSIND

Financing Agreement between the Authority and the City, which provides security for 
the obligations of the City in respect of the City WIFIA Bond.

Financing Agreement between the Authority and the District, which provides security 
for the obligations of the District in respect of the District WIFIA Bond.

WIFIA Term Sheet provided by the USEPA, and signed by the Authority and the City, 
which describes the terms of the City WIFIA Loan, the City WIFIA Bond, the City 
Financing Agreement and the City WIFIA Loan Agreement.

WIFIA Term Sheet provided by the USEPA, and signed by the Authority and the 
District, which describes the terms of the District WIFIA Loan, the District WIFIA 
Bond, the District Financing Agreement and the District WIFIA Loan Agreement.

WIFIA Loan Agreement among the USEPA, the Authority and the City, which 
provides for the terms of the City WIFIA Loan and the City WIFIA Bond.

WIFIA Loan Agreement among the USEPA, the Authority and the District, which 
provides for the terms of the District WIFIA Loan and the District WIFIA Bond.
Section 4.
Sale of Bonds.  The Governing Board hereby approves the negotiated sale 
and placement of the WIFIA Bonds to the USEPA pursuant to the WIFIA Loan Agreements, so 
long as the true interest cost of each WIFIA Bond does not exceed 4.00%.
Section 5.
Official Actions.  The Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson, the Treasurer-
Auditor-Controller, the Secretary, the General Counsel and all other officers of the Authority are 
each authorized and directed in the name and on behalf of the Authority to make any and all leases, 
assignments, certificates, requisitions, agreements, notices, consents, instruments of conveyance, 
warrants and other documents, and to take any actions, which they or any of them deem necessary 
or appropriate in order to consummate any of the transactions contemplated by the agreements and 
documents approved under this Resolution.  Whenever in this Resolution any officer of the 
Authority is authorized to execute or countersign any document or take any action, such execution, 
countersigning or action may be taken on behalf of such officer by any person designated by such 
officer to act on his or her behalf if such officer is absent or unavailable.
Section 6.
Effective Date.  This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its 
passage and adoption.
12 of 42

--- page 13 ---
5
3475651.3 044435  RSIND
PASSED and ADOPTED this _____ day of _______, 2020, by the following vote:
AYES:
NOES:
ABSENT:
ABSTAIN:
Chairperson
Attest:
Secretary
13 of 42

--- page 14 ---
3475651.3 044435  RSIND
EXHIBIT A
REQUIRED GOOD FAITH ESTIMATES PURSUANT TO
GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 5852.1
1.
True Interest Cost of the City WIFIA Bond/City WIFIA Loan: 1.39%.
2.
Finance charge of the City WIFIA Bond/City WIFIA Loan, being the sum 
of all fees and charges paid to third parties (Costs of Issuance of 
approximately $193,598 plus loan fee of $265,580): $459,178.
3.
Amount of proceeds of the City WIFIA Bond/City WIFIA Loan expected 
to be received by the Authority, net of proceeds for Costs of Issuance in (2) 
above and net of capitalized interest (if any) and reserves (if any) paid or 
funded with the proceeds of the City WIFIA Bond/City WIFIA Loan: 
$209,880,182.  
4.
Total payment amount for the City WIFIA Bond/City WIFIA Loan, being 
the sum of (a) debt service to be paid on the City WIFIA Bond/City WIFIA 
Loan to final maturity, plus (b) any financing costs not paid from proceeds 
of the City WIFIA Bond/City WIFIA Loan: $271,315,910.57.
5.
True Interest Cost of the District WIFIA Bond/District WIFIA Loan: 
1.18%.
6.
Finance charge of the District WIFIA Bond/District WIFIA Loan, being the 
sum of all fees and charges paid to third parties (Costs of Issuance of 
approximately $65,502 plus loan fee of $84,420): $149,922.
7.
Amount of proceeds of the District WIFIA Bond/District WIFIA Loan 
expected to be received by the Authority, net of proceeds for Costs of 
Issuance in (6) above and net of capitalized interest (if any) and reserves (if 
any) paid or funded with the proceeds of the District WIFIA Bond/District 
WIFIA Loan: $66,710,718.  
8.
Total payment amount for the District WIFIA Bond/District WIFIA Loan, 
being the sum of (a) debt service to be paid on the District WIFIA 
Bond/District WIFIA Loan to final maturity, plus (b) any financing costs 
not paid from proceeds of the District WIFIA Bond/District WIFIA Loan: 
$79,931,311.27.
________________
*All amounts and percentages are estimates, and are made in good faith by the Authority based on information 
available as of the date of adoption of this Resolution.  Estimates include certain assumptions regarding rates 
available at the time of incurring the WIFIA Bonds/WIFIA Loans.
14 of 42

--- page 15 ---
S&S DRAFT 10/13/20
AMERICAS/2015850070.11
UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
[●], 2020
San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
RE:
WIFIA Loan Term Sheet for the San Mateo Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and 
Expansion Project with the San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority and City 
of San Mateo (WIFIA Project No. 18107CA)
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This WIFIA Loan Term Sheet (this “Term Sheet”) constitutes (a) the approval of the 
United States Environmental Protection Agency, acting by and through the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency (hereinafter, the “USEPA”), of the application for credit 
assistance of the Borrower (as defined below) received October 18, 2019 (the “Application”) and 
(b) the agreement of USEPA to provide financing for the above-referenced project (as further 
described below, the “Project”) in the form of a secured loan (the “WIFIA Loan”), pursuant to 
the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (“WIFIA”), § 5021 et seq. of Public Law 
113-121 (as amended by Public Law 114-94, Public Law 114-322 and Public Law 115-270) (the 
“Act”), codified as 33 U.S.C. §§ 3901-3914, subject in all respects to (i) the terms and conditions 
contained herein and (ii) the execution and delivery of the WIFIA loan agreement to be entered 
into on or after the date hereof (the “WIFIA Loan Agreement”) on terms and conditions 
acceptable to USEPA contained therein.  Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein 
shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the WIFIA Loan Agreement.
USEPA’s agreement to provide WIFIA credit assistance to the Project is based upon the 
Application and the supplemental information and documents, including the base case financial 
model, provided to USEPA. This Term Sheet is an agreement of USEPA only to the terms 
specified herein, which may be modified or supplemented by USEPA in its discretion at any time 
and from time to time during the course of its due diligence and credit approval process.
By executing this Term Sheet, each Obligor (as defined below) confirms its agreement to 
reimburse USEPA on a joint and several basis for any and all fees and expenses that USEPA incurs 
for legal counsel, financial advice, and other consultants in connection with the evaluation of the 
Project and the negotiation and preparation of the WIFIA Loan Agreement and related documents, 
whether or not such agreement is ultimately executed.
This Term Sheet shall be governed by the federal laws of the United States of America if 
and to the extent such federal laws are applicable, and the internal laws of the State of California, 
if and to the extent such federal laws are not applicable.
15 of 42

--- page 16 ---
AMERICAS/2015850070.11
2
INDICATIVE TERMS OF THE WIFIA LOAN
WIFIA LENDER
United States Environmental Protection Agency, an agency of the 
United States of America, acting by and through the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (the 
“WIFIA Lender”).
BORROWER
San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority, a joint 
exercise of powers authority duly organized and existing under 
the laws of the State of California (the “Borrower”).
CITY
City of San Mateo, a chartered city and municipal corporation 
established under the Constitution of the State of California (the 
“City” and, together with the Borrower, the “Obligors”).
PROJECT
The “Project” means the modification of the San Mateo 
wastewater treatment plant located in San Mateo County, 
California, to replace and repair aging infrastructure, provide 
capacity for wet weather flows to eliminate wastewater treatment 
plant effluent blending, produce a higher quality effluent, enhance 
system reliability, and support sustainability goals. The Project 
includes new liquid stream treatment facilities with preliminary, 
primary, secondary, and tertiary treatment facilities to meet more 
stringent National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System 
(NPDES) permit limits, including with respect to nutrient 
removal, and support future Title 22 reuse.  It also includes new 
on-site flow equalization capacity to manage wet weather flows.
WIFIA LOAN AMOUNT
A maximum principal amount (sum of disbursements) not to 
exceed $210,339,360; provided that (a) the maximum principal 
amount of the WIFIA Loan, together with the amount of any other 
credit assistance provided under the Act, shall not exceed forty-
nine percent (49%) of reasonably anticipated Eligible Project 
Costs and (b) the total federal assistance for the Project, including 
but not limited to the maximum principal amount of the WIFIA 
Loan and all federal grants, shall not exceed eighty percent (80%) 
of Total Project Costs.
INTEREST RATE
The WIFIA Loan shall bear interest at a fixed rate, calculated by 
adding one basis point (0.01%) to the rate of securities of a similar 
maturity (based on the weighted-average life of the WIFIA Loan) 
as published, on the execution date of the WIFIA Loan 
Agreement, in the United States Treasury Bureau of Public Debt’s 
daily rate table for State and Local Government Series (SLGS) 
securities, 
currently 
located 
on 
the 
Internet 
at 
https://www.treasurydirect.gov/GA-SL/SLGS/selectSLGSDate.htm.
16 of 42

--- page 17 ---
AMERICAS/2015850070.11
3
Interest shall accrue and be computed on the Outstanding WIFIA 
Loan Balance on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve (12) thirty 
(30) day months.
The WIFIA Loan shall also bear default interest at a rate of two 
hundred (200) basis points above the otherwise applicable interest 
rate, at such times and upon such terms as provided in the WIFIA 
Loan Agreement.
PAYMENT DATES
Pursuant to the Financing Agreement between the City and the 
Borrower with respect to the Project (the “WIFIA FA”), not later 
than the fifth (5th) Business Day prior to each payment date (each 
such date, an “Authority Bond Payment Date”), the City shall 
transfer to the WIFIA Debt Service Account the amount due and 
payable under the WIFIA FA (such amounts, the “Authority 
Bond Payments”) on such Authority Bond Payment Date. All 
Authority Bond Payments and any other amounts deposited into 
the WIFIA Debt Service Account shall be held by the Borrower 
in trust for the benefit of the WIFIA Lender until the immediately 
succeeding payment date, whereupon such money shall be applied 
to the payment of WIFIA Debt Service.
Principal of the WIFIA Loan shall be repaid in annual installments 
on August 1 of each year, beginning on August 1, 2026.
Interest on the WIFIA Loan shall be paid in arrears on February 1 
and August 1 of each year, beginning on the February 1 or August 
1 immediately succeeding the Initial Disbursement Date.  
The debt service payment commencement date shall in no event 
be later than five (5) years after the Substantial Completion Date 
of the Project.
FINAL MATURITY DATE
The earliest of (a) August 1, 2055, (b) the Principal Payment Date 
immediately preceding the date that is thirty-five (35) years 
following the Substantial Completion Date and (c) such earlier 
date acceptable to the WIFIA Lender and the Obligors.
PROJECTED 
SUBSTANTIAL 
COMPLETION DATE
June 30, 2024.
DEDICATED SOURCES 
OF REPAYMENT
The dedicated source of repayment for the Authority Bond 
Payments shall be the Net Revenues (as defined below) derived 
from the System.
“Net Revenues” for any Obligor Fiscal Year means the sum of 
(a) Gross Revenues for such Obligor Fiscal Year plus (b) the 
amounts, if any, withdrawn from the Rate Stabilization Fund and 
deposited into the Revenue Fund in accordance with the WIFIA 
FA for treatment as Gross Revenues for such Obligor Fiscal Year, 
17 of 42

--- page 18 ---
AMERICAS/2015850070.11
4
less the sum of (i) all Maintenance and Operation Costs for such 
Obligor Fiscal Year and (ii) the amounts, if any, withdrawn by the 
City from the Revenue Fund in accordance with the WIFIA FA 
during such Obligor Fiscal Year for deposit in the Rate 
Stabilization Fund.
SECURITY OF WIFIA 
LOAN
As security for the WIFIA Loan, the Borrower shall pledge, assign 
and grant to the WIFIA Lender Liens on (a) all of the Authority 
Revenues (as defined below), (b) all of the right, title and interest 
(but none of the obligations) of the Borrower in the WIFIA FA, 
(c) the WIFIA Debt Service Account and (d) the WIFIA Reserve 
Fund (to the extent such fund is established pursuant to the terms 
of the WIFIA Loan Agreement).
“Authority Revenues” means (a) the Authority Bond Payments, 
(b) all amounts on deposit from time to time in the WIFIA Debt 
Service Account and, as applicable, the WIFIA Reserve Fund and 
(c) income and gains with respect to the investment of amounts 
on deposit in the WIFIA Debt Service Account and, as applicable, 
the WIFIA Reserve Fund.
The debt obligation of the Borrower under the WIFIA Loan shall 
be evidenced through the issuance by the Borrower of the WIFIA 
Bond.
SECURITY AND LIEN 
PRIORITY OF 
AUTHORITY BOND 
PAYMENTS
The City shall pledge, assign and grant Liens to the Borrower on 
the Net Revenues to secure the Authority Bond Payments.  The 
obligations of the City to make the Authority Bond Payments 
constitute Parity Obligations.
The Gross Revenues shall, immediately upon receipt thereof, be 
deposited by the City into the Revenue Fund.  Amounts deposited 
in the Revenue Fund shall be applied in the order of priority 
described in, and in accordance with, the Flow of Funds.
FLOW OF FUNDS
Money in the Revenue Fund, after paying as they become due and 
payable all Maintenance and Operation Costs (including amounts 
reasonably required to be set aside in contingency reserves for 
Maintenance and Operation Costs that are not then due and 
payable), shall be applied by the City to pay when due the 
following amounts in the following order of priority:
(i) On or before each Authority Bond Payment Date, the City 
shall, from amounts in the Revenue Fund, transfer to the Borrower 
for deposit in the WIFIA Debt Service Account an amount that, 
together with amounts held in the WIFIA Debt Service Account 
available for that purpose, is equal to the interest amount 
becoming due and payable on such Authority Bond Payment 
Date, as set forth in Appendix B of the WIFIA FA.
18 of 42

--- page 19 ---
AMERICAS/2015850070.11
5
(ii) On or before each Authority Bond Payment Date, the City 
shall, from amounts in the Revenue Fund, transfer to the Borrower 
for deposit in the WIFIA Debt Service Account an amount that, 
together with amounts held in the WIFIA Debt Service Account 
available for that purpose, is equal to the principal amount 
becoming due and payable on such Authority Bond Payment 
Date, as set forth in Appendix B of the WIFIA FA.
(iii) On or before each Authority Bond Payment Date, the City 
shall, from amounts in the Revenue Fund, pay to the party entitled 
thereto or transfer or cause to be transferred to any applicable debt 
service or other payment fund or account for any Parity 
Obligations, without preference or priority to the transfers made 
pursuant to the preceding clauses (i) and (ii), on the dates specified 
in the Issuing Instrument relating to such Parity Obligations, the 
sum or sums required to be paid or deposited in such debt service 
or other payment fund or account with respect to principal, 
premium, if any, and interest on Parity Obligations (excluding 
Hedging Termination Obligations).
(iv) On or before each Authority Bond Payment Date, the City 
shall, from amounts in the Revenue Fund in excess of the sums 
required to make the transfers specified in the foregoing clauses 
(i), (ii) and (iii), (A) following the occurrence of a WIFIA Reserve 
Funding Trigger Event, transfer to the WIFIA Reserve Fund an 
amount at least equal to ten percent (10%) of the WIFIA Reserve 
Fund Requirement until such requirement has been fully satisfied 
and (B) transfer or cause to be transferred to any applicable debt 
service reserve fund for any Parity Obligation other than the 
WIFIA Bond, the sum or sums required to be paid or deposited in 
such debt service reserve fund in accordance with the terms of 
such Parity Obligation. 
(v) On or before each Authority Bond Payment Date, the City 
shall, from amounts in the Revenue Fund in excess of the sums 
required to make the transfers specified in foregoing clauses (i), 
(ii), (iii) and (iv), pay to the party entitled thereto or transfer or 
cause to be transferred to any applicable debt service or other 
payment fund or account for any Subordinated Obligations or any 
Hedging Termination Obligations, on the dates specified in the 
Issuing Instrument relating to such Subordinated Obligations or 
such Hedging Termination Obligations, the sum or sums required 
to be paid or deposited in such debt service or other payment fund 
or account with respect to principal, premium, if any, and interest 
on Subordinated Obligations or with respect to Hedging 
Termination Obligations.
(vi) All money on deposit in the Sewer Revenue Fund in excess 
of the sums required to be set aside on or before each Authority 
19 of 42

--- page 20 ---
AMERICAS/2015850070.11
6
Bond Payment Date by the provisions of the foregoing clauses (i), 
(ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) shall be available for (A) the payment of any 
unsecured obligations, (B) the acquisition and construction of 
improvements to the System, (C) any transfers permitted by the 
WIFIA FA to the Rate Stabilization Fund and (D) any other lawful 
purpose of the City (provided that the foregoing clause (D) shall 
not supersede, modify or otherwise affect the City’s obligations 
pursuant to the “Restricted Payments and Transfers” item below). 
PREPAYMENT OF WIFIA 
LOAN BY BORROWER
The Borrower may prepay the WIFIA Loan in whole or in part, 
without penalty or premium; provided that any such prepayment 
shall be in a minimum principal amount of $1,000,000 or any 
integral multiple of $1.00 in excess thereof, and otherwise in 
accordance with the WIFIA Loan Agreement.
RATE COVENANT OF 
THE CITY
The City shall fix, prescribe, revise and collect rates, fees and 
charges for the services and facilities furnished by the System 
during each Obligor Fiscal Year which are at least sufficient to 
yield (a) Net Revenues for such Obligor Fiscal Year at least equal 
to one hundred twenty percent (120%) of Debt Service on all 
Parity Obligations for such Obligor Fiscal Year and (b) Net 
Revenues for such Obligor Fiscal Year at least equal to one 
hundred percent (100%) of Debt Service on all Parity Obligations 
plus debt service on all Subordinated Obligations for such Obligor 
Fiscal Year.
ADDITIONAL 
INDEBTEDNESS AND 
OBLIGATIONS
Borrower Indebtedness.  The Borrower shall not create, incur or 
suffer to exist any obligations (i) other than obligations secured 
by Liens on payments by either or both of the Members of 
principal, interest or redemption expenses or (ii) which are senior 
or prior in right to the payment by the Borrower of the WIFIA 
Loan, and in no event shall any obligations other than the WIFIA 
Loan be secured by Liens on the Authority Revenues.
Senior Lien and Project Obligations.  The City shall not create, 
incur or suffer to exist (i) any Obligations which are senior or prior 
in right to (A) the payment by the City of the Authority Bond 
Payments and the other Parity Obligations or (B) the Lien on the 
Net Revenues in favor of the Borrower or (ii) any obligations, all 
or a portion of the proceeds of which are or will be applied at any 
time to fund all or any portion of Total Project Costs, that are 
secured by a Lien on any assets or property of the City other than 
the Net Revenues (except for a Lien on the City’s interest in all or 
a portion of the proceeds of the disbursements of the WIFIA Loan 
granted by the City to an issuer of Interim Financing to secure the 
City’s obligation to repay such Interim Financing).
Issuance of Parity Obligations.
20 of 42

--- page 21 ---
AMERICAS/2015850070.11
7
(i) Without regard to subsection (iv) of this section, the City may 
at any time issue or enter into an obligation or commitment which 
is a Qualified Swap Agreement, provided (A) the Qualified Swap 
Agreement shall relate to a principal amount of Outstanding 
Parity Obligations or investments held under an Issuing 
Instrument for Parity Obligations, in each case specified by the 
City’s Authorized Representative, and (B) the notional amount of 
the Qualified Swap Agreement shall not exceed the principal 
amount of the related Parity Obligation or the amount of such 
investments, as applicable.
(ii) Without regard to subsection (iv) of this section, the City may 
at any time issue Refunding Parity Obligations provided that the 
WIFIA Lender receives an opinion letter of the City’s bond 
counsel to the effect that the Parity Obligations to be refunded are 
deemed paid pursuant to the Issuing Instrument authorizing such 
Parity Obligations.
(iii) Without regard to subsection (iv) of this section, the City may 
enter into Credit Support Instruments or otherwise become 
obligated for Credit Provider Reimbursement Obligations from 
time to time.
(iv) The City may, at any time and from time to time, issue any 
Additional Parity Obligations, provided the City obtains or 
provides a certificate or certificates, prepared by the City or at the 
City’s option by a Consultant, showing that: 
  (A) Net Revenues for the applicable Calculation Period shall 
have amounted to at least 1.20 times the Maximum Annual Debt 
Service on all Parity Obligations to be Outstanding immediately 
after the issuance of the proposed Additional Parity Obligations; 
or
  (B) estimated Net Revenues for each of the five (5) full Obligor 
Fiscal Years beginning with the first full Obligor Fiscal Year 
following the issuance of the proposed Additional Parity 
Obligations is at least equal to 1.20 times the Debt Service 
scheduled to be paid in each such Obligor Fiscal Year on all Parity 
Obligations to be Outstanding immediately after the issuance of 
the proposed Additional Parity Obligations. 
(v) For purposes of calculating either of the coverage tests 
described in subsection (iv) of this section, the proceeds of the 
Federal Subsidy, if any, received by the City will not be included 
in Net Revenues and will be subtracted from the amount of 
interest payable in calculating Debt Service. 
(vi) For purposes of preparing the certificate or certificates 
described in subsection (iv) of this section, the City and any 
21 of 42

--- page 22 ---
AMERICAS/2015850070.11
8
Consultant may rely upon the books and records of the City or any 
financial statements prepared by the City which have not been 
subject to audit by an Independent Accountant if audited financial 
statements for the particular Calculation Period selected by the 
City are not available.
(vii) For purposes of the computations to be made as described in 
subsection (iv)(B) of this section, the estimated Net Revenues: 
  (A) may take into account any increases in rates and charges 
which relate to the System and which have been approved by the 
City Council of the City, and shall take into account any reduction 
in such rates and charges which have been approved by the City 
Council of the City, which will be effective during the Obligor 
Fiscal Year for which such estimate is made; provided that an 
increase may only be taken into account if such increase takes 
effect during the Obligor Fiscal Years contemplated by subsection 
(iv)(B) of this section; and 
  (B) may take into account an allowance for any estimated 
increase in such Net Revenues from any revenue producing 
additions or improvements to or extensions of the System, to be 
made with the proceeds of such Additional Parity Obligations or 
with the proceeds of Parity Obligations previously issued, all in 
an amount equal to the estimated additional average annual Net 
Revenues to be derived from such additions, improvements and 
extensions during the Obligor Fiscal Years contemplated by 
subsection (iv)(B) of this section; and 
  (C) for the Obligor Fiscal Years contemplated by subsection 
(iv)(B) of this section, Maintenance and Operation Costs shall 
initially be deemed to be equal to such costs for the twelve (12) 
consecutive months immediately prior to incurring such 
Additional Parity Obligations, but adjusted if deemed necessary 
by the City or a Consultant, as applicable, for any increased 
Maintenance and Operations Costs which are, in the judgment of 
the City or such Consultant, as applicable, essential to maintaining 
and operating the System and which will occur during the Obligor 
Fiscal Years contemplated by subsection (iv)(B) of this section.
(viii) Upon the incurrence of any Additional Parity Obligations, 
the City shall provide to the WIFIA Lender a certificate signed by 
the City’s Authorized Representative (A) specifying the closing 
date with respect to such Additional Parity Obligations and (B) 
confirming that such Additional Parity Obligations are authorized 
pursuant to, and satisfy the applicable requirements under, the 
WIFIA Loan Agreement.
Issuance of Subordinated Obligations.
22 of 42

--- page 23 ---
AMERICAS/2015850070.11
9
(i) Nothing in this Item limits or affects the ability of the City to 
issue or incur obligations which are unsecured or which are 
secured by an interest which is junior and subordinate to the 
pledge of and lien upon the Net Revenues established under the 
WIFIA FA.
(ii) Subject to the terms of the WIFIA Loan Agreement, the City 
may, at any time or from time to time, issue Additional 
Subordinated Obligations for any purpose in connection with the 
System, including the financing of a part of the cost of acquisition 
and construction of any additions to or improvements of the 
System or the refunding of any Subordinated Obligations or 
Outstanding Parity Obligations (or portions thereof).  Such 
Additional Subordinated Obligations shall be payable out of 
amounts in the Revenue Fund as may from time to time be 
available therefor, provided that any such payment shall be, and 
shall be expressed to be, subordinate and junior in all respects to 
the payment of such Parity Obligations as may be Outstanding 
from time to time, including Parity Obligations issued after the 
issuance of such Additional Subordinated Obligations.
(iii) Any Additional Subordinated Obligations may have such 
rank or priority with respect to any other Subordinated 
Obligations as may be provided in the Issuing Instrument 
authorizing the issuance, incurrence or securing of such 
Additional Subordinated Obligations and may contain such other 
provisions as are not in conflict with the provisions of the WIFIA 
Loan Agreement or any other Related Document.
(iv) Upon the incurrence of any Additional Subordinated 
Obligations, the City shall provide to the WIFIA Lender a 
certificate signed by the City’s Authorized Representative (A) 
specifying the closing date with respect to such Additional 
Subordinated Obligations and (B) confirming that such 
Additional Subordinated Obligations are authorized pursuant to, 
and satisfy the applicable requirements under, the WIFIA Loan 
Agreement.
RESTRICTED 
PAYMENTS AND 
TRANSFERS
The City shall not permit the Gross Revenues or any funds in any 
other fund or account held by or on behalf of the City with respect 
to the System, to be paid or transferred or otherwise applied for 
purposes other than ownership, operation or maintenance of the 
System or other legally permitted purposes related to the System.
WIFIA RESERVE FUND
Upon the incurrence or existence of any Additional Parity 
Obligations of the City benefiting from a debt service reserve fund 
(a “WIFIA Reserve Funding Trigger Event”), the Borrower 
shall establish and maintain a WIFIA Reserve Fund in accordance 
with the WIFIA Loan Agreement for the exclusive benefit of the 
23 of 42

--- page 24 ---
AMERICAS/2015850070.11
10
WIFIA Lender.  The WIFIA Reserve Fund shall be secured by a 
valid and binding pledge, assignment and Lien, automatically and 
without the need for any notice to or from any Person, physical 
delivery, recordation, filing or further act, and shall not be subject 
to any Lien in favor of any Person other than the WIFIA Lender.  
Amounts on deposit in the WIFIA Reserve Fund shall be applied 
solely to pay the principal, interest and other amounts due with 
respect to the WIFIA Loan.
The City shall cause the WIFIA Reserve Fund to be funded 
pursuant to the Flow of Funds over a period not to exceed five (5) 
years following the occurrence of a WIFIA Reserve Funding 
Trigger Event until the WIFIA Reserve Fund Requirement (as 
defined below) is satisfied.  All deposits shall be made directly by 
the City to the WIFIA Reserve Fund for the benefit of the WIFIA 
Lender.
A surety bond issued to the WIFIA Lender by a company licensed 
to issue a surety bond guaranteeing the timely payment of 
principal of and interest on the WIFIA Bond may be deposited in 
the WIFIA Reserve Fund to meet the WIFIA Reserve Fund 
Requirement if (a) one or more surety bonds has been deposited 
into the reserve fund of each Outstanding Additional Parity 
Obligation with a debt service reserve requirement to meet such 
requirement and (b) the claims paying ability of such company 
shall be rated at the time of such deposit at least equal to the 
second highest rating category (disregarding rating subcategories) 
by no fewer than two (2) Nationally Recognized Rating Agencies, 
but in no event less than the rating on the WIFIA Bond given by 
any Nationally Recognized Rating Agency which has a then 
currently effective rating on the WIFIA Bond.
“WIFIA Reserve Fund Requirement” means, as of any 
Payment Date, an amount calculated on the same basis as the 
reserve fund requirement on any Outstanding Additional Parity 
Obligation that includes such a requirement.  To the extent there 
is more than one Outstanding Additional Parity Obligation with a 
reserve fund requirement, the WIFIA Reserve Fund Requirement 
shall 
be 
calculated 
on 
the 
same 
basis 
as 
the 
reserve fund requirement on the Outstanding Additional Parity 
Obligation that produces the highest WIFIA Reserve Fund 
Requirement result.  To the extent there is no debt service reserve 
requirement on any Outstanding Additional Parity Obligation, the 
WIFIA Reserve Fund Requirement shall be equal to $0.
WIFIA LOAN 
DOCUMENTATION
The WIFIA Loan shall be subject to the preparation, execution 
and delivery of the WIFIA Loan Agreement, the WIFIA FA, the 
WIFIA Bond and any other loan documentation required by the 
WIFIA Lender in connection therewith, in each case acceptable 
24 of 42

--- page 25 ---
AMERICAS/2015850070.11
11
to the WIFIA Lender, the Borrower and the City (as applicable), 
which will contain certain conditions precedent, representations 
and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, events of 
default, in each case, with respect to the Borrower and the City, 
and other provisions as agreed among the WIFIA Lender, the 
Borrower and the City (as applicable).
GOVERNING LAW
Federal laws of the United States of America, if and to the extent 
such federal laws are applicable, and the internal laws of the State 
of California, if and to the extent such federal laws are not 
applicable.
COUNTERPARTS
This Term Sheet, and any amendments, waivers, consents or 
supplements hereto may be executed in any number of 
counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, 
each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed 
an original, but all such counterparts together shall constitute but 
one and the same instrument.  Signature pages may be detached 
from multiple separate counterparts and attached to a single 
counterpart so that all signature pages are physically attached to 
the same document. Electronic delivery of an executed 
counterpart of a signature page shall be effective as delivery of an 
original executed counterpart.
[Signature pages follow]
25 of 42

--- page 26 ---
[Signature page to San Mateo Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and Expansion Project 
(San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority and City of San Mateo) – WIFIA Term Sheet]
If the foregoing terms are acceptable, please countersign this letter in the space indicated 
below.
Sincerely,
UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL 
PROTECTION AGENCY, acting by and 
through the Administrator of the United States 
Environmental Protection Agency
By:
_______________________________
Name: Andrew R. Wheeler
Title: Administrator
26 of 42

--- page 27 ---
[Signature page to San Mateo Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and Expansion Project 
(San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority and City of San Mateo) – WIFIA Term Sheet]
ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED:
SAN MATEO-FOSTER CITY PUBLIC 
FINANCING AUTHORITY, 
by its authorized representative
By:
_______________________________
Name:
Title:
27 of 42

--- page 28 ---
[Signature page to San Mateo Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and Expansion Project 
(San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority and City of San Mateo) – WIFIA Term Sheet]
ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED:
CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
by its authorized representative
By:
_______________________________
Name:
Title:
Approved as to form
_________________________
City Attorney
28 of 42

--- page 29 ---
S&S DRAFT 9/22/20
AMERICAS/2015853664.7
UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
[●], 2020
San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
Estero Municipal Improvement District
610 Foster City Boulevard, 
Foster City, California 94404
RE:
WIFIA Loan Term Sheet for the San Mateo Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and 
Expansion Project with the San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority and Estero 
Municipal Improvement District (WIFIA Project No. 18168CA)
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This WIFIA Loan Term Sheet (this “Term Sheet”) constitutes (a) the approval of the 
United States Environmental Protection Agency, acting by and through the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency (hereinafter, the “USEPA”), of the application for credit 
assistance of the Borrower (as defined below) received October 18, 2019 (the “Application”) and 
(b) the agreement of USEPA to provide financing for the above-referenced project (as further 
described below, the “Project”) in the form of a secured loan (the “WIFIA Loan”), pursuant to 
the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (“WIFIA”), § 5021 et seq. of Public Law 
113-121 (as amended by Public Law 114-94, Public Law 114-322 and Public Law 115-270) (the 
“Act”), codified as 33 U.S.C. §§ 3901-3914, subject in all respects to (i) the terms and conditions 
contained herein and (ii) the execution and delivery of the WIFIA loan agreement to be entered 
into on or after the date hereof (the “WIFIA Loan Agreement”) on terms and conditions 
acceptable to USEPA contained therein.  Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein 
shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the WIFIA Loan Agreement.
USEPA’s agreement to provide WIFIA credit assistance to the Project is based upon the 
Application and the supplemental information and documents, including the base case financial 
model, provided to USEPA. This Term Sheet is an agreement of USEPA only to the terms 
specified herein, which may be modified or supplemented by USEPA in its discretion at any time 
and from time to time during the course of its due diligence and credit approval process.
By executing this Term Sheet, each Obligor (as defined below) confirms its agreement to 
reimburse USEPA on a joint and several basis for any and all fees and expenses that USEPA incurs 
for legal counsel, financial advice, and other consultants in connection with the evaluation of the 
Project and the negotiation and preparation of the WIFIA Loan Agreement and related documents, 
whether or not such agreement is ultimately executed.
This Term Sheet shall be governed by the federal laws of the United States of America if 
and to the extent such federal laws are applicable, and the internal laws of the State of California, 
if and to the extent such federal laws are not applicable.
29 of 42

--- page 30 ---
AMERICAS/2015853664.7
2
INDICATIVE TERMS OF THE WIFIA LOAN
WIFIA LENDER
United States Environmental Protection Agency, an agency of the 
United States of America, acting by and through the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (the 
“WIFIA Lender”).
BORROWER
San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority, a joint 
exercise of powers authority duly organized and existing under 
the laws of the State of California (the “Borrower”).
DISTRICT
Estero Municipal Improvement District, a political subdivision of 
the State of California (the “District” and, together with the 
Borrower, the “Obligors”).
PROJECT
The “Project” means the modification of the San Mateo 
wastewater treatment plant located in San Mateo County, 
California, to replace and repair aging infrastructure, provide 
capacity for wet weather flows to eliminate wastewater treatment 
plant effluent blending, produce a higher quality effluent, enhance 
system reliability, and support sustainability goals. The Project 
includes new liquid stream treatment facilities with preliminary, 
primary, secondary, and tertiary treatment facilities to meet more 
stringent National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System 
(NPDES) permit limits, including with respect to nutrient 
removal, and support future Title 22 reuse.  It also includes new 
on-site flow equalization capacity to manage wet weather flows.
WIFIA LOAN AMOUNT
A maximum principal amount (sum of disbursements) not to 
exceed $66,860,640; provided that (a) the maximum principal 
amount of the WIFIA Loan, together with the amount of any other 
credit assistance provided under the Act, shall not exceed forty-
nine percent (49%) of reasonably anticipated Eligible Project 
Costs and (b) the total federal assistance for the Project, including 
but not limited to the maximum principal amount of the WIFIA 
Loan and all federal grants, shall not exceed eighty percent (80%) 
of Total Project Costs.
INTEREST RATE
The WIFIA Loan shall bear interest at a fixed rate, calculated by 
adding one basis point (0.01%) to the rate of securities of a similar 
maturity (based on the weighted-average life of the WIFIA Loan) 
as published, on the execution date of the WIFIA Loan 
Agreement, in the United States Treasury Bureau of Public Debt’s 
daily rate table for State and Local Government Series (SLGS) 
securities, 
currently 
located 
on 
the 
Internet 
at 
https://www.treasurydirect.gov/GA-SL/SLGS/selectSLGSDate.htm.
30 of 42

--- page 31 ---
AMERICAS/2015853664.7
3
Interest shall accrue and be computed on the Outstanding WIFIA 
Loan Balance on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve (12) thirty 
(30) day months.
The WIFIA Loan shall also bear default interest at a rate of two 
hundred (200) basis points above the otherwise applicable interest 
rate, at such times and upon such terms as provided in the WIFIA 
Loan Agreement.
PAYMENT DATES
Pursuant to the Financing Agreement between the District and the 
Borrower with respect to the Project (the “WIFIA FA”), not later 
than the fifth (5th) Business Day prior to each payment date (each 
such date, an “Authority Bond Payment Date”), the District 
shall transfer to the WIFIA Debt Service Account the amount due 
and payable under the WIFIA FA (such amounts, the “Authority 
Bond Payments”) on such Authority Bond Payment Date. All 
Authority Bond Payments and any other amounts deposited into 
the WIFIA Debt Service Account shall be held by the Borrower 
in trust for the benefit of the WIFIA Lender until the immediately 
succeeding payment date, whereupon such money shall be applied 
to the payment of WIFIA Debt Service.
Principal of the WIFIA Loan shall be repaid in annual installments 
on August 1 of each year, beginning on August 1, 2026.
Interest on the WIFIA Loan shall be paid in arrears on February 1 
and August 1 of each year, beginning on the February 1 or August 
1 immediately succeeding the Initial Disbursement Date.  
The debt service payment commencement date shall in no event 
be later than five (5) years after the Substantial Completion Date 
of the Project.
FINAL MATURITY DATE
The earlier of (a) August 1, 2055 and (b) the Principal Payment 
Date immediately preceding the date that is thirty-five (35) years 
following the Substantial Completion Date.
PROJECTED 
SUBSTANTIAL 
COMPLETION DATE
June 30, 2024.
DEDICATED SOURCES 
OF REPAYMENT
The dedicated source of repayment for the Authority Bond 
Payments shall be the Net Revenues (as defined below) derived 
from the System.
“Net Revenues” means, for any period, an amount equal to the 
sum of (a) all of the Gross Revenues received during such period 
less (b) the amount required to pay all Maintenance and Operation 
Costs coming payable during such period.
31 of 42

--- page 32 ---
AMERICAS/2015853664.7
4
SECURITY OF WIFIA 
LOAN
As security for the WIFIA Loan, the Borrower shall pledge, assign 
and grant to the WIFIA Lender Liens on (a) all of the Authority 
Revenues (as defined below), (b) all of the right, title and interest 
(but none of the obligations) of the Borrower in the WIFIA FA, 
(c) the WIFIA Debt Service Account and (d) the WIFIA Reserve 
Fund (to the extent such fund is established pursuant to the terms 
of the WIFIA Loan Agreement).
“Authority Revenues” means (a) the Authority Bond Payments, 
(b) all amounts on deposit from time to time in the WIFIA Debt 
Service Account and, as applicable, the WIFIA Reserve Fund and 
(c) income and gains with respect to the investment of amounts 
on deposit in the WIFIA Debt Service Account and, as applicable, 
the WIFIA Reserve Fund.
The debt obligation of the Borrower under the WIFIA Loan shall 
be evidenced through the issuance by the Borrower of the WIFIA 
Bond.
SECURITY AND LIEN 
PRIORITY OF 
AUTHORITY BOND 
PAYMENTS
The District shall pledge, assign and grant Liens to the Borrower 
on the Net Revenues to secure the Authority Bond Payments.  The 
obligations of the District to make the Authority Bond Payments 
constitute Parity Obligations.
The Gross Revenues shall, immediately upon receipt thereof, be 
deposited by the District into the Revenue Fund.  Amounts 
deposited in the Revenue Fund shall be applied in the order of 
priority described in, and in accordance with, the Flow of Funds.
FLOW OF FUNDS
Amounts on deposit in the Revenue Fund shall be applied by the 
District to pay when due the following amounts in the following 
order of priority:
(a) all Maintenance and Operation Costs;
(b) on or before each Authority Bond Payment Date, from 
amounts in the Revenue Fund in excess of the sums required to 
make the transfers specified in the foregoing clause (a), (i) to the 
Borrower for deposit in the WIFIA Debt Service Account, the 
Authority Bond Payments and (ii) to any applicable debt service 
or other payment fund or account for any Outstanding Parity 
Obligations, all payments of principal of and interest and 
premium (if any) on such Outstanding Parity Obligations 
(excluding Hedging Termination Obligations);
(c) on or before each Authority Bond Payment Date, from 
amounts in the Revenue Fund in excess of the sums required to 
make the transfers specified in the foregoing clauses (a) and (b), 
(i) following the occurrence of a WIFIA Reserve Funding Trigger 
Event, to the Borrower for deposit in the WIFIA Reserve Fund an 
amount at least equal to ten percent (10%) of the WIFIA Reserve 
32 of 42

--- page 33 ---
AMERICAS/2015853664.7
5
Fund Requirement until such requirement has been fully satisfied 
and (ii) to any applicable debt service reserve fund for any Parity 
Obligation other than the WIFIA Bond, any amount that is 
required to maintain such debt service reserve fund in accordance 
with the terms of such Parity Obligation;
(d) on or before each Authority Bond Payment Date, from 
amounts in the Revenue Fund in excess of the sums required to 
make the transfers specified in the foregoing clauses (a), (b) and 
(c), to any applicable debt service or other payment fund or 
account for any Outstanding Subordinated Obligations or 
Hedging Termination Obligations, all payments of principal of 
and interest and premium (if any) on such Outstanding 
Subordinated Obligations or with respect to Hedging Termination 
Obligations;
(e) from amounts in the Revenue Fund in excess of the sums 
required to make the transfers specified in the foregoing clauses 
(a), (b), (c) and (d), any other payments required to comply with 
the provisions of the Joint Powers Agreement or the 
Construction/Operation JPA Agreement; and
(f) from amounts in the Revenue Fund in excess of the sums 
required to make the transfers specified in the foregoing clauses 
(a), (b), (c), (d) and (e), (i) the payment of any unsecured 
obligations, (ii) the acquisition and construction of improvements 
to the System, (iii) any transfers permitted by the WIFIA FA to 
the Rate Stabilization Fund, and (iv) any other lawful purposes of 
the System.
PREPAYMENT OF WIFIA 
LOAN BY BORROWER
The Borrower may prepay the WIFIA Loan in whole or in part, 
without penalty or premium; provided that any such prepayment 
shall be in a minimum principal amount of $1,000,000 or any 
integral multiple of $1.00 in excess thereof, and otherwise in 
accordance with the WIFIA Loan Agreement.
RATE COVENANT OF 
THE DISTRICT
The District shall fix, prescribe, revise and collect rates, fees and 
charges for the services and facilities furnished by the System 
during each Obligor Fiscal Year which are at least sufficient to 
yield (a) Net Revenues for such Obligor Fiscal Year at least equal 
to one hundred twenty percent (120%) of Debt Service on all 
Parity Obligations for such Obligor Fiscal Year and (b) Net 
Revenues for such Obligor Fiscal Year at least equal to one 
hundred percent (100%) of Debt Service on all Parity Obligations 
plus debt service on all Subordinated Obligations for such Obligor 
Fiscal Year.
33 of 42

--- page 34 ---
AMERICAS/2015853664.7
6
ADDITIONAL 
INDEBTEDNESS AND 
OBLIGATIONS
Borrower Indebtedness.  The Borrower shall not create, incur or 
suffer to exist any obligations (i) other than obligations secured 
by Liens on payments by either or both of the Members of 
principal, interest or redemption expenses or (ii) which are senior 
or prior in right to the payment by the Borrower of the WIFIA 
Loan, and in no event shall any obligations other than the WIFIA 
Loan be secured by Liens on the Authority Revenues.
Senior Lien and Project Obligations.  The District shall not create, 
incur or suffer to exist (i) any Obligations which are senior or prior 
in right to (A) the payment by the District of the Authority Bond 
Payments and the other Parity Obligations or (B) the Lien on the 
Net Revenues in favor of the Borrower or (ii) any obligations, all 
or a portion of the proceeds of which are or will be applied at any 
time to fund all or any portion of Total Project Costs, that are 
secured by a Lien on any assets or property of the District other 
than the Net Revenues (except for a Lien on the District’s interest 
in all or a portion of the proceeds of the disbursements of the 
WIFIA Loan granted by the District to an issuer of Interim 
Financing to secure the District’s obligation to repay such Interim 
Financing).
Issuance of Parity Obligations.
(i) Without regard to subsection (iv) of this section, the District 
may at any time issue or enter into an obligation or commitment 
which is a Qualified Swap Agreement, provided (A) the Qualified 
Swap Agreement shall relate to a principal amount of Outstanding 
Parity Obligations or investments held under an Issuing 
Instrument for Parity Obligations, in each case specified by the 
District’s Authorized Representative, and (B) the notional amount 
of the Qualified Swap Agreement shall not exceed the principal 
amount of the related Parity Obligation or the amount of such 
investments, as applicable.
(ii) Without regard to subsection (iv) of this section, the District 
may at any time issue Refunding Parity Obligations provided that 
the WIFIA Lender receives an opinion letter of the District’s bond 
counsel to the effect that the Parity Obligations to be refunded are 
deemed paid pursuant to the Issuing Instrument authorizing such 
Parity Obligations.
(iii) Without regard to subsection (iv) of this section, the District 
may enter into Credit Support Instruments or otherwise become 
obligated for Credit Provider Reimbursement Obligations from 
time to time.
(iv) The District may, at any time and from time to time, issue any 
Additional Parity Obligations, provided the District obtains or 
34 of 42

--- page 35 ---
AMERICAS/2015853664.7
7
provides a certificate or certificates, prepared by the District or at 
the District’s option by a Consultant, showing that: 
  (A) Net Revenues for the applicable Calculation Period shall 
have amounted to at least 1.20 times the Maximum Annual Debt 
Service on all Parity Obligations to be Outstanding immediately 
after the issuance of the proposed Additional Parity Obligations; 
or
  (B) estimated Net Revenues for each of the five (5) full Obligor 
Fiscal Years beginning with the first full Obligor Fiscal Year 
following the issuance of the proposed Additional Parity 
Obligations is at least equal to 1.20 times the Debt Service 
scheduled to be paid in each such Obligor Fiscal Year on all Parity 
Obligations to be Outstanding immediately after the issuance of 
the proposed Additional Parity Obligations. 
(v) For purposes of calculating either of the coverage tests 
described in subsection (iv) of this section, the proceeds of the 
Federal Subsidy, if any, received by the District will not be 
included in Net Revenues and will be subtracted from the amount 
of interest payable in calculating Debt Service. 
(vi) For purposes of preparing the certificate or certificates 
described in subsection (iv) of this section, the District and any 
Consultant may rely upon the books and records of the District or 
any financial statements prepared by the District which have not 
been subject to audit by an Independent Accountant if audited 
financial statements for the particular Calculation Period selected 
by the District are not available.
(vii) For purposes of the computations to be made as described in 
subsection (iv)(B) of this section, the estimated Net Revenues: 
  (A) may take into account any increases in rates and charges 
which relate to the System and which have been approved by the 
Board of Directors of the District, and shall take into account any 
reduction in such rates and charges which have been approved by 
the Board of Directors of the District, which will be effective 
during the Obligor Fiscal Year for which such estimate is made; 
provided that an increase may only be taken into account if such 
increase takes effect during the Obligor Fiscal Years 
contemplated by subsection (iv)(B) of this section; and 
  (B) may take into account an allowance for any estimated 
increase in such Net Revenues from any revenue producing 
additions or improvements to or extensions of the System, to be 
made with the proceeds of such Additional Parity Obligations or 
with the proceeds of Parity Obligations previously issued, all in 
an amount equal to the estimated additional average annual Net 
35 of 42

--- page 36 ---
AMERICAS/2015853664.7
8
Revenues to be derived from such additions, improvements and 
extensions during the Obligor Fiscal Years contemplated by 
subsection (iv)(B) of this section; and 
  (C) for the Obligor Fiscal Years contemplated by subsection 
(iv)(B) of this section, Maintenance and Operation Costs shall 
initially be deemed to be equal to such costs for the twelve (12) 
consecutive months immediately prior to incurring such 
Additional Parity Obligations, but adjusted if deemed necessary 
by the District or a Consultant, as applicable, for any increased 
Maintenance and Operations Costs which are, in the judgment of 
the District or such Consultant, as applicable, essential to 
maintaining and operating the System and which will occur 
during the Obligor Fiscal Years contemplated by subsection 
(iv)(B) of this section.
(viii) Upon the incurrence of any Additional Parity Obligations, 
the District shall provide to the WIFIA Lender a certificate signed 
by the District’s Authorized Representative (A) specifying the 
closing date with respect to such Additional Parity Obligations 
and (B) confirming that such Additional Parity Obligations are 
authorized pursuant to, and satisfy the applicable requirements 
under, the WIFIA Loan Agreement.
Issuance of Subordinated Obligations.
(i) Nothing in this Item limits or affects the ability of the District 
to issue or incur obligations which are unsecured or which are 
secured by an interest which is junior and subordinate to the 
pledge of and lien upon the Net Revenues established under the 
WIFIA FA.
(ii) Subject to the terms of the WIFIA Loan Agreement, the 
District may, at any time or from time to time, issue Additional 
Subordinated Obligations for any purpose in connection with the 
System, including the financing of a part of the cost of acquisition 
and construction of any additions to or improvements of the 
System or the refunding of any Subordinated Obligations or 
Outstanding Parity Obligations (or portions thereof).  Such 
Additional Subordinated Obligations shall be payable out of 
amounts in the Revenue Fund as may from time to time be 
available therefor, provided that any such payment shall be, and 
shall be expressed to be, subordinate and junior in all respects to 
the payment of such Parity Obligations as may be Outstanding 
from time to time, including Parity Obligations issued after the 
issuance of such Additional Subordinated Obligations.
(iii) Any Additional Subordinated Obligations may have such 
rank or priority with respect to any other Subordinated 
Obligations as may be provided in the Issuing Instrument 
36 of 42

--- page 37 ---
AMERICAS/2015853664.7
9
authorizing the issuance, incurrence or securing of such 
Additional Subordinated Obligations and may contain such other 
provisions as are not in conflict with the provisions of the WIFIA 
Loan Agreement or any other Related Document.
(iv) Upon the incurrence of any Additional Subordinated 
Obligations, the District shall provide to the WIFIA Lender a 
certificate signed by the District’s Authorized Representative (A) 
specifying the closing date with respect to such Additional 
Subordinated Obligations and (B) confirming that such 
Additional Subordinated Obligations are authorized pursuant to, 
and satisfy the applicable requirements under, the WIFIA Loan 
Agreement.
RESTRICTED 
PAYMENTS AND 
TRANSFERS
The District shall not permit the Gross Revenues or any funds in 
any other fund or account held by or on behalf of the District with 
respect to the System, to be paid or transferred or otherwise 
applied for purposes other than ownership, operation or 
maintenance of the System or other legally permitted purposes 
related to the System. 
WIFIA RESERVE FUND
Upon the incurrence or existence of any Additional Parity 
Obligations of the District benefiting from a debt service reserve 
fund (a “WIFIA Reserve Funding Trigger Event”), the 
Borrower shall establish and maintain a WIFIA Reserve Fund in 
accordance with the WIFIA Loan Agreement for the exclusive 
benefit of the WIFIA Lender.  The WIFIA Reserve Fund shall be 
secured by a valid and binding pledge, assignment and Lien, 
automatically and without the need for any notice to or from any 
Person, physical delivery, recordation, filing or further act, and 
shall not be subject to any Lien in favor of any Person other than 
the WIFIA Lender.  Amounts on deposit in the WIFIA Reserve 
Fund shall be applied solely to pay the principal, interest and other 
amounts due with respect to the WIFIA Loan.
The District shall cause the WIFIA Reserve Fund to be funded 
pursuant to the Flow of Funds over a period not to exceed five (5) 
years following the occurrence of a WIFIA Reserve Funding 
Trigger Event until the WIFIA Reserve Fund Requirement (as 
defined below) is satisfied.  All deposits shall be made directly by 
the District to the WIFIA Reserve Fund for the benefit of the 
WIFIA Lender.
A surety bond issued to the WIFIA Lender by a company licensed 
to issue a surety bond guaranteeing the timely payment of 
principal of and interest on the WIFIA Bond may be deposited in 
the WIFIA Reserve Fund to meet the WIFIA Reserve Fund 
Requirement if (a) one or more surety bonds has been deposited 
into the reserve fund of each Outstanding Additional Parity 
37 of 42

--- page 38 ---
AMERICAS/2015853664.7
10
Obligation with a debt service reserve requirement to meet such 
requirement and (b) the claims paying ability of such company 
shall be rated at the time of such deposit at least equal to the 
second highest rating category (disregarding rating subcategories) 
by no fewer than two (2) Nationally Recognized Rating Agencies, 
but in no event less than the rating on the WIFIA Bond given by 
any Nationally Recognized Rating Agency which has a then 
currently effective rating on the WIFIA Bond.
“WIFIA Reserve Fund Requirement” means, as of any 
Payment Date, an amount calculated on the same basis as the 
reserve fund requirement on any Outstanding Additional Parity 
Obligation that includes such a requirement.  To the extent there 
is more than one Outstanding Additional Parity Obligation with a 
reserve fund requirement, the WIFIA Reserve Fund Requirement 
shall 
be 
calculated 
on 
the 
same 
basis 
as 
the 
reserve fund requirement on the Outstanding Additional Parity 
Obligation that produces the highest WIFIA Reserve Fund 
Requirement result.  To the extent there is no debt service reserve 
requirement on any Outstanding Additional Parity Obligation, the 
WIFIA Reserve Fund Requirement shall be equal to $0.
WIFIA LOAN 
DOCUMENTATION
The WIFIA Loan shall be subject to the preparation, execution 
and delivery of the WIFIA Loan Agreement, the WIFIA FA, the 
WIFIA Bond and any other loan documentation required by the 
WIFIA Lender in connection therewith, in each case acceptable 
to the WIFIA Lender, the Borrower and the District (as 
applicable), which will contain certain conditions precedent, 
representations and warranties, affirmative and negative 
covenants, events of default, in each case, with respect to the 
Borrower and the District, and other provisions as agreed among 
the WIFIA Lender, the Borrower and the District (as applicable).
GOVERNING LAW
Federal laws of the United States of America, if and to the extent 
such federal laws are applicable, and the internal laws of the State 
of California, if and to the extent such federal laws are not 
applicable.
COUNTERPARTS
This Term Sheet, and any amendments, waivers, consents or 
supplements hereto may be executed in any number of 
counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, 
each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed 
an original, but all such counterparts together shall constitute but 
one and the same instrument.  Signature pages may be detached 
from multiple separate counterparts and attached to a single 
counterpart so that all signature pages are physically attached to 
the same document. Electronic delivery of an executed 
38 of 42

--- page 39 ---
AMERICAS/2015853664.7
11
counterpart of a signature page shall be effective as delivery of an 
original executed counterpart.
[Signature pages follow]
39 of 42

--- page 40 ---
[Signature page to San Mateo Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and Expansion Project (San Mateo-Foster City 
Public Financing Authority and Estero Municipal Improvement District) – WIFIA Term Sheet]
If the foregoing terms are acceptable, please countersign this letter in the space indicated 
below.
Sincerely,
UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL 
PROTECTION AGENCY, acting by and 
through the Administrator of the United States 
Environmental Protection Agency
By:
_______________________________
Name: Andrew R. Wheeler
Title: Administrator
40 of 42

--- page 41 ---
[Signature page to San Mateo Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and Expansion Project (San Mateo-Foster City 
Public Financing Authority and Estero Municipal Improvement District) – WIFIA Term Sheet]
ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED:
SAN MATEO-FOSTER CITY PUBLIC 
FINANCING AUTHORITY, 
by its authorized representative
By:
_______________________________
Name:
Title:
41 of 42

--- page 42 ---
[Signature page to San Mateo Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and Expansion Project (San Mateo-Foster City 
Public Financing Authority and Estero Municipal Improvement District) – WIFIA Term Sheet]
ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED:
ESTERO MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENT 
DISTRICT, by its authorized representative
By:
_______________________________
Name:
Title:
Approved as to form
_________________________
District’s Attorney
42 of 42