source: packet.pdf
sha256: 308df70b9cdfeff42be2ce2ef0ba4e0b5f246f435f15aba1f780817051c16f2e
pages: 88
ocr_pages: 2
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting
August 23, 2021
6:00 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA – Election Districting Public Hearing #1
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: August 23, 2021 District Election Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 890 6024 7963
Passcode: 3941799
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
PUBLIC HEARING
City Council action on the following public hearing(s) represents a final decision concluding all administrative proceedings. Judicial
review may be had only if a petition is filed with the Court not later than the 90th day following the date the decision is made. Judicial
review of environmental determinations may be subject to a time period for litigation as short as 30 days following the date the
decision is made.
1.
Transition to District-Based Elections for Councilmembers – Public Hearing #1
Receive a presentation from staff and the City's consulting demographer regarding the process and criteria for
establishing Council district boundaries for by district elections, and hold the first of two public hearings to
receive public input regarding the boundaries and composition of districts before maps of proposed district
boundaries are drawn.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
1 of 88

--- page 2 ---
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your
comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 88

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 21-5039
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
August 23, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Transition to District-Based Elections for Councilmembers – Public Hearing #1
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a presentation from staff and the City's consulting demographer regarding the process and criteria for establishing 
Council district boundaries for by district elections, and hold the first of two public hearings to receive public input 
regarding the boundaries and composition of districts before maps of proposed district boundaries are drawn. 
BACKGROUND:
On May 24, 2021, the City received a demand letter alleging the City of San Mateo's current at-large election system 
violates the California Voting Rights Act (CVRA).  On June 21, 2021, the City Council adopted Resolution No. 69 (2021) 
declaring its intent to transition from at-large elections to by-district elections of Council Members. The resolution also 
outlined specific steps to facilitate the transition and provides a schedule for the process to create the City’s first district 
elections map. Currently, voters across the City vote for all five council members. A “by-district” election is one in which 
the City is divided into separate districts, each with one City Council member who resides in the district and is chosen by 
the voters in that particular district. The first by-district Council election would occur during the November 8, 2022 general 
municipal election. 
On July 19, 2021, the City Council approved Resolution No. 76 (2021), which updated the schedule to provide more 
opportunities for community input and to use the latest 2020 U.S. Census data. Two changes were subsequently made to 
the timing of the community workshops to better align with the public hearing schedule and ensure they did not conflict 
with other events. Attachment 1 contains the updated schedule. 
In addition, City Charter Section 2.01(a) provides for the election of Council Members at large.  Following the adoption of 
an ordinance completing the transition to elections by district, a clean-up ballot measure would be submitted to the voters 
to reflect this transition, possibly at the June 2022 Statewide primary election. 
Public Hearing Process
Pursuant to Elections Code Section 10010, the City is required to hold at least five public hearings on the transition 
process. Public hearings #1 and #2 must be held over a period of no more than 30 days before any map or maps of the 
boundaries for the proposed voting districts are drawn. At these public hearings, the community is invited to provide input 
on communities of interest and the composition of districts, including the number of districts to be considered. Two 
subsequent public hearings will be held once draft maps are drawn.
At this first hearing, the City will present information on the possible composition of districts and the City’s demographer, 
Paul Mitchell of Redistricting Partners, will provide a presentation on the process and the legal parameters that must be 
considered when preparing district boundaries and opportunities for the public to engage in the process. The City Council 
3 of 88

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
will then receive public comments. At the end of the second public hearing, scheduled for 6 p.m. on September 13, 2021, 
the City Council will provide direction to City staff and the City’s demographer regarding the criteria to be used, consistent 
with the required legal parameters, to create one or more proposed district maps. The Council will also be asked to 
provide direction on the number of districts to be considered, as explained below. 
The City’s demographer will then create one or more draft maps taking into account public input and the updated 
preliminary U.S. 2020 Census data. During this period, the City will also accept draft maps submitted by the public. The 
Council will then host public hearing #3 on September 30 and public hearing #4 on October 14, 2021. The maps drafted by 
the City’s demographer will be published for public comment at least one week before each of these two public hearings 
and will account for finalized 2020 Census data when that is made available. After taking public comment, staff will ask 
Council to provide further direction to finalize a map.
During public hearings #3 and #4, staff will ask the Council to provide direction on sequencing of future elections. The 
sequencing of elections refers to when each district will host its first by-district election (November 2022 or November 
2024) so as to stagger when Council seats are up for election. Final direction on election sequencing will be sought in 
public hearing #4. The City Council is the final decision-making body on adopting district boundaries and the plan will be 
incorporated into a recommended ordinance that will be presented to the City Council for consideration during public 
hearing #5 on November 1, 2021 at 7:30 p.m.
The following is a summary of the public hearing schedule:
Type of Meeting
Purpose
Date
Time
Public Hearing #1
(Special Meeting)
Input from Communities of Interest (no map drawing)
8/23/21
6:00 pm
Public Hearing #2
(Special Meeting)
Input from Communities of Interest (no map drawing) and 
direction given on district composition
9/13/21
6:00 pm
Public Hearing #3
(Special Meeting)
Review and feedback of proposed draft maps and election 
sequencing
9/30/21
6:00 pm
Public Hearing #4
(Special Meeting)
Review and final direction on revised draft map and election 
sequencing
10/14/21
6:00 pm
Public Hearing #5
(Regular Meeting)
Introduction of ordinance (no map changes)
11/1/21
7:30 pm
Consent Calendar
(Regular Meeting)
Adoption of ordinance
11/15/21
7:00 pm
District Formation Criteria
In creating the district boundaries, the City must ensure compliance with the following state and federally mandated 
criteria:

Each council district shall contain a nearly equal population as required by law; and

Each council district shall be drawn in a manner that complies with the Federal Voting Rights Act, and the 
Constitutions of the United States and California (e.g., race cannot be the predominant factor).
In addition, under Elections Code Section 21621(c), certain criteria must be used to establish the boundaries of the Council 
districts including the following, in order of priority:

Geographic contiguity

To the extent practicable, maintaining neighborhoods and local Communities of Interest. 
o
Communities of Interest include people with common social or economic interests (such as cultural or 
historical bonds etc.). 
o
Communities of Interest do not include relationships with political parties, incumbents, or political 
candidates.
4 of 88

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

Boundaries that are easily identifiable and understandable to residents (e.g., geographical and topographical 
features such as rivers and creeks, or other physical barriers such as railroads or major streets)

Geographic compactness is encouraged.
Composition and Number of Districts Discussion
Pursuant to Government Code Section 34871, the City Council may adopt an ordinance that determines how by-district 
elections are to be implemented.  Such an ordinance is not required to be submitted to the voters (Govt. §34886). This 
statute provides for the following options:

By-districts in five, seven, or nine districts.

By-districts in four, six, or eight districts, with an elective mayor that could serve either a 2-year or 4-year term 
pursuant to Government Code Section 34900.
The City Council is asked to receive public input and begin discussion on the preferences for composition of by district 
elections for San Mateo, with final direction sought in public hearing #2 on September 13, 2021. 
Community Outreach 
In addition to the formal public hearing process, the City is implementing a robust multi-lingual community engagement 
initiative branded “Represent San Mateo.” This includes an additional five community workshops, including two held in 
Spanish; pop-up outreach at community events; and engaging community-based organizations such as neighborhood 
associations, faith organizations, nonprofits and others. The City is also providing multiple ways for the public to submit 
feedback through in-person and online formats such as interactive map drawing and fillable Communities of Interest 
forms. Materials are being provided in English, Spanish and simplified Chinese, the three predominant languages spoken in 
San Mateo. Included as Attachment 2 and Attachment 3 are samples of flyers and Communities of Interest forms.
Thus far, the City has sent a trilingual mailer to all residential households, is consistently sharing information through all of 
its digital platforms, is using voter registration data to send email notifications, and is posting flyers and posters at key 
locations throughout the City. The City is also working with local groups to distribute materials including during the Police 
Activities League’s annual backpack giveaway, through the Parks and Recreation’s and Self Help for the Elderly’s senior 
meal distributions, and through neighborhood and advocacy organizations. The City has also made over 100 direct 
contacts to community groups such as school districts and PTAs, neighborhood and homeowners associations, churches, 
nonprofits, business associations, and active members of the community. Robust outreach will continue throughout this 
process. 
Information about this process and opportunities for the public to provide feedback is available at 
www.cityofsanmateo.org/DistrictElections.
BUDGET IMPACT:
At its June 21, 2021 meeting the City Council appropriated $150,000 to underwrite costs associated with moving to District 
elections.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational public hearing is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity 
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Schedule 
Att 2 – Outreach flyers
Att 3 – Communities of Interest Form
5 of 88

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7042
Samantha Weigel, Communications Manager
sweigel@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7005
Prasanna Rasiah, City Attorney
prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7020
Drew Corbett, City Manager
dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7000
6 of 88

--- page 7 ---
City of San Mateo
Districting Proposed Timelines and Public Outreach Schedule
Activity
Proposed Schedule
Received Demand Letter
5/24/2021
Adopted a Resolution of Intention
6/21/2021
Pop-up Music in the Park
7/29/21 & 8/5/21
Direct Mailing to all addresses in the City with outreach schedule
wk of 8/1
City Services Academy - City Manager presentation
8/18/2021
Community Workshop #1 & #2 - Saturday (two: one at library & one at King Center in 
Spanish)
8/21/2021
Hold Public Hearing #1 to gather input from communities of interest (no draft maps drawn 
until these are complete) No more than 30 days apart between Hearing #1 and #2
8/23/21 @ 6pm
Firefighter Chili Cook-off
8/28/2021
Hold Public Hearing #2 to gather input from communities of interest (no draft maps drawn 
until these are complete) No more than 30 days apart between Hearing #1 and #2
9/13/21 @ 6pm
Pop-up Movies in the Park (Every Friday in September)
9/3, 9/10, 9/17 & 9/24
Pop-up Bayfront Clean-up
9/18/21 8 am-1pm
Community Meeting #3 - Saturday (one at library)
9/25/2021
Hold Public Hearing #3 to gather public input on draft maps and election sequencing 
(Public Hearing #3 and #4 can be no more than 45 days apart).
9/30/21 @ 6pm
Census Data Release
9/30/2021
Insert in the Recology Bill
10/1/2021
Community Meeting #4 & #5 - Saturday (two: one at Congregational Church 9:30 am and 
one at Beresford (Chinese interpretation) in the afternoon TBD)
10/2/2021
Deadline for all initial draft maps posted on website at least 7 days prior to next round of 
public hearings
10/7/2021
Hold Public Hearing #4 to gather public input on revised draft maps (prison population 
adjusted final data) and election sequencing 
(Public Hearing #3 and #4 can be no more than 45 days apart).
10/14/21 @ 6pm
Deadline for all initial draft maps posted on website at least 7 days prior to next round of 
public hearings
10/28/2021
Hold Public Hearing #5 and introduction of ordinance (up/down vote - no map changes) - 
Regular Council Meeting 
11/1/2021 @ 7:30 pm
Adopt Ordinance (Regular Meeting - Consent Calendar) per Elections Code Section 15, 
Sunday deadline moves to next business day
11/15/2021
Six Months before next regular election the ordinance must be adopted
5/2/2022
County Elections requires a map showing the boundaries of the district and which distracts 
are to be elected for the general municipal election 
5/12/2022
First District Election
11/8/2022
Legend for color coding
Not color coded are Public Hearing dates and deadlines
Pop Up at Community Events
8
Community Meetings with Presentations in Person Total
3 to 6
7 of 88

--- page 8 ---
Possibility of up to four Rotating presence at COSM Farmers Market on Saturday 9-1 - (TBD 
eight opportunities)
8/14 - 11/6
As of 7/25/21
8 of 88

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
You can help influence how voters elect future City of San Mateo Council 
Members by joining the Represent San Mateo initiative! The City has begun 
the process of transitioning to district elections, and community input is 
needed. Currently, voters across the entire City elect all five City Council 
members through an at-large elections system. A district-based election is 
one in which the City is divided into separate districts, each with one City 
council member who resides in the district and is chosen by the voters in 
that particular district.
HOW TO GET INVOLVED
The city will be holding a series of virtual public hearing and 
community workshops to receive public input on where 
district lines should be drawn. At these events you can share 
feedback and suggestions for new district lines in the City of 
San Mateo. You can also participate remotely through online 
forms and mapping tools.
Monday, Aug. 23, 2021 
at 6 p.m.
On Zoom (meeting link will be posted at
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings)
Monday, Sept. 13, 2021 
at 6 p.m.
On Zoom (meeting link will be posted at
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings)
On Zoom (meeting link will be posted at
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings)
Thursday, Sept. 30, 2021 
at 6 p.m.
On Zoom (meeting link will be postedat
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings)
Thursday, Oct. 14, 2021 
at 6 p.m.
On Zoom (meeting link will be posted at
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings)
Monday, Nov. 1, 2021 
at 7:30 p.m.
DATE & TIME
LOCATION
Saturday, Aug. 21, 2021
at 10-11:30 a.m.
Main Library Oak Room
(55 W. Third Ave.)
Saturday, Aug. 21, 2021
at 2-3:30 p.m.
King Center
(725 Monte Diablo Ave.)
*Hosted in Spanish, with English interpretation.
Main Library Oak Room
(55 W. Third Ave.) 
Saturday, Sept. 25, 2021 
at 2-3:30 p.m.
Congregational Church of San Mateo 
(225 Tilton Ave.) 
*Hosted in Spanish, with English interpretation.
Saturday, Oct. 2, 2021 
at 9:30-11 a.m.
Senior Center
(2645 Alameda de las Pulgas)
Saturday, Oct. 2, 2021 
at 1-2:30 p.m.
DATE & TIME
LOCATION
PUBLIC COMMENT DURING VIRTUAL HEARINGS:
Individuals can email districtelections@cityofsanmateo.org and 
comments will be made part of the public record.
You can also participate by submitting Communities of Interest forms, 
using our online mapping tool expected for release in August 2021, or 
by emailing districtelections@cityofsanmateo.org.
SUBMIT COMMUNITY OF
INTEREST CARDS HERE:
Scan QR Code
Where can I find out more?
The City maintains a webpage on
the City districting process here:
www.cityofsanmateo.org/DistrictElections
PUBLIC HEARINGS - VIRTUAL ON ZOOM
IN-PERSON COMMUNITY WORKSHOPS
9 of 88

--- page 10 ---
CIUDAD DE SAN MATEO 
¡Usted puede ayudar a influir sobre la manera en que los votantes eligen a 
los futuros concejales de la ciudad de San Mateo participando en la 
iniciativa Represente a San Mateo! La ciudad ha comenzado el proceso de 
transición a las elecciones de distrito, y se necesita el aporte de la 
comunidad.Actualmente, los votantes de toda la ciudad eligen a los cinco 
miembros del concejo municipal a través de un sistema de elecciones 
generales. Una elección basada en el distrito es aquella en la que la ciudad 
se divide en distritos separados, cada uno con un concejal que reside en el 
distrito y es elegido por los votantes de ese distrito en particular. 
CÓMO PARTICIPAR 
La ciudad llevará a cabo una serie de talleres comunitarios y 
audiencias públicas virtuales para recibir opiniones acerca de 
cómo se deben dibujar los distritos. En estos encuentros se 
pueden compartir opiniones y sugerencias acerca de los 
límites de los nuevos distritos en la ciudad de San Mateo. 
También se puede participar de forma remota a través de 
formularios en línea y herramientas de mapeo. 
Lunes 23 de ago. de 2021 
a las 6 p.m. 
Por Zoom (La reunión se publicará en 
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings)
Lunes 13 de sep. de 2021 a 
las 6 p.m.
Por Zoom (La reunión se publicará en  
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings)
Por Zoom (La reunión se publicará en 
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings)
Jueves 30 de sep. de 2021 
a las 6 p.m. 
Por Zoom (La reunión se publicará en 
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings)
Jueves 14 de oct. de 2021 
a las 6 p.m. 
Por Zoom (La reunión se publicará en 
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings)
Lunes 1 de nov. de 2021 a 
las 7:30 p.m. 
FECHA Y HORA 
LUGAR 
Sábado, 21 de ago. de 
2021 de 10-11:30 a.m.
Main Library Oak Room
(55 W. Third Ave.)
Sábado, 21 de ago. de 
2021 a las 2-3:30 p.m.
King Center
(725 Monte Diablo Ave.)
*Se llevará a cabo en español, con 
interpretación en inglés.
Main Library Oak Room
(55 W. Third Ave.) 
Sábado, 25 de sep. de 
2021 a las 2-3: 30 p.m.
Congregational Church of San Mateo 
(225 Tilton Ave.) 
*Se llevará a cabo en español, con 
interpretación en inglés.
Sábado 2 de oct. de 
2021 de 9:30-11 a.m.
Senior Center
(2645 Alameda de las Pulgas)
Sábado, 2 de oct. de 
2021 a las 1-2:30 p.m.
FECHA Y HORA  
LUGAR 
COMENTARIOS PÚBLICOS DURANTE LAS AUDIENCIAS VIRTUALES: 
Se puede enviar un correo electrónico a 
districtelections@cityofsanmateo.org y los comentarios formarán 
parte del registro público.
También puede participar enviando un testimonio de Comunidades de 
Interés, utilizando nuestra herramienta de mapeo en línea cuyo 
lanzamiento se espera para agosto de 2021, o enviando un correo 
electrónico a districtelections@cityofsanmateo.org.
ENVÍE SUS TARJETAS DE 
COMUNIDADES DE INTERÉS AQUÍ: 
Escanee el código QR aquí 
¿Dónde puedo obtener más información? 
La ciudad cuenta con una página web sobre 
el proceso de distribución de distritos de la ciudad aquí: 
www.cityofsanmateo.org/4537/District-Elections
AUDIENCIAS PÚBLICAS - VIRTUALES A TRAVÉS DE ZOOM 
TALLERES COMUNITARIOS PRESENCIALES 
10 of 88

--- page 11 ---
聖馬刁市 (CITY OF SAN MATEO)
您可以通過參與「代表聖馬刁市」（Represent San Mateo）
計畫來協助制定選民如何選出將來的聖馬刁市市議員！本市
開展了轉向分區選舉（district 
election）的流程，希望能獲
得社區的意見。目前，本市的選民通過一般選舉（at-large 
election）制度選出全部的五名市議會成員。分區選舉制度將
城市劃分為不同區域，每個分區將選出一位居住在該分區內
的市議員。
如何參與
本市將舉辦一系列線上公眾聽證會和社區研討會，
以聽取公眾對劃定分區界線的反饋。在這些活動
中，您可以分享對聖馬刁市新分區界線的意見和
建議。您還可以透過線上表單和繪圖工具遠距參
與。
2021年8月23日（週一）
下午6:00
在Zoom上舉行（會議連結將發佈於
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings）
2021年9月13日（週一）
下午6:00
在Zoom上舉行（會議連結將發佈於
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings）
在Zoom上舉行（會議連結將發佈於
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings）
2021年9月30日（週四）
下午6:00
在Zoom上舉行（會議連結將發佈於
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings）
2021年10月14日（週四）
下午6:00
在Zoom上舉行（會議連結將發佈於
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings）
2021年11月1日（週一）
晚上7:30
日期和時間
地點
2021年8月21日
（週六）
上午10:00 - 11:30
Main Library Oak Room
(55 W. Third Ave.)
2021年8月21日
（週六）
下午2:00 - 3:30
King Center
(725 Monte Diablo Ave.)
Main Library Oak Room
(55 W. Third Ave.) 
2021年9月25日
（週六）
上午9:30 - 11:00
Congregational Church of San Mateo 
(225 Tilton Ave.) 
2021年10月2日
（週六）
上午9:30 - 11:00
Senior Center
(2645 Alameda de las Pulgas)
2021年10月2日
（週六）
下午1:00 - 3:30
日期和時間
地點
在線上公眾聽證會期間提交公眾意見：
請發送電子郵件至districtelections@cityofsanmateo.org，
您的評論將被納入公共記錄。
您還可以通過提交共同權益社區表、發送電子郵件至 
districtelections@cityofsanmateo.org或使用預計於2021年
8月發佈的線上繪圖工具來參與分區流程。
在此提交
共同權益社區表：
掃描二維碼
在哪裡可以找到更多資訊？
本市在以下網頁提供關於
分區流程的資訊：
www.cityofsanmateo.org/DistrictElections
公眾聽證會 - 將於ZOOM線上舉行
社區研討會
11 of 88

--- page 12 ---
After receiving a demand letter alleging the City of San Mateo's current at-large election system violates the California Voting 
Rights Act, the City has begun the process of transitioning to district elections with the goal of completing the process by 
November 2021. Your input is crucial to this process and 2020 U.S. Census data will be used to balance the population of each 
new San Mateo City Council District. 
One of the primary goals of this process is to keep communities together within each district. That’s why it is so important to 
hear from you! Complete this form to tell us about your community of interest – so it can be preserved in the new district 
lines. 
We want to hear from you! 
Email us at districtelections@cityofsanmateo.org 
or visit www.cityofsanmateo.org/districtelections
QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS? 
Community of Interest Form
What is a Community of Interest?
A Community of Interest (COI) is a group of people that share common social or economic interests, live in a geographically 
definable area, and should be included within a single district for purposes of effective and fair representation in future City 
Council elections.
Some COIs are considered "protected classes" in that they have rights through State or Federal civil rights or voting rights laws. 
Some examples of protected classes in districting include Latino, Asian, or Black individuals.
There are other potential COIs that can also be considered in districting. Examples include but are not limited to: people who 
live in a particular neighborhood; groups with cultural, religious or historical bonds; people who share concerns such as 
environmental hazards, transportation interests, renters or homeowners, etc.
COI does not include relationships with political parties, incumbents, or political candidates. 
What criteria will help the City Council understand the importance of your community in the 
districting process?
When documenting your community, it is important to outline the following topics to assist the City Council in the districting 
process:
• The shared culture, characteristics, or bonds of your community.
• The distinguishable geographic boundaries of your community and the number of people living in your area.
• Your community’s relationship with the City and how it is affected by policy decisions made by the City Council.
The public can submit any testimony, but it is important to remember that your input can be best used if it addresses all three 
of these topics.
What You Can Do to Further Participate in the Districting Process?
1. Submit your community of interest form and return it by email to districtelections@cityofsanmateo.org or mail or drop
off a hard copy to: City Clerk Patrice Olds, 330 West 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
2.Attend one of the City of San Mateo City Council public meetings, times and locations to be publicized on the District
Elections web page: www.cityofsanmateo.org/districtelections
LEARN ABOUT 
DISTRICTING
SCAN QR CODE HERE
12 of 88

--- page 13 ---
The following information is optional and voluntary. You are not required to fill out all the questions below, but the 
more information you can provide, the better informed the process will be. If you provide contact information, we 
will send you updates on the process.
Name: 
    Email: 
1.What is the neighborhood/zipcode where you reside:
2. How do you describe your community?
3. Explain the geographical location of your community. What are the physical boundaries/features (streets,
freeways, parks, etc.)?
4. Are there public services (bus lines, libraries, public schools, fire stations etc.) that help identify your
community?
5. Identify the major cultural/recreational/educational/religious institutions in your community:
6. What languages are spoken in your community? What are the major race/ethnic groups in your
community?
7. Environment (coastal, inland, urban/suburban):
8. Types of homes (single family houses, apartments, condos, mobile homes, etc):
9.What issues matter to your community? Please describe how the issues before the City Council have an
impact on your community.
10.What else would you like to tell us about your community?
BY MAIL
Attn: City Clerk Patrice Olds
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo CA 94403
SUBMIT YOUR COMMUNITY OF INTEREST FORM:
BY EMAIL:
districtelections@cityofsanmateo.org 
Your  Community of Interest Form
Fill out your form online
13 of 88

--- page 14 ---
Despues de recibir una carta de demanda alegando que el actual sistema de elección de la general de la Ciudad de San Mateo 
viola la Ley de Derecho al Voto de California, la ciudad ha comenzado el proceso de transición hacia elecciones de distrito con 
el objetivo de completer el proceso en noviembre de 2021. Su opinión es crucial para este proceso y los datos del Censo de 
2020 de EE.UU. se utilizarán para equilibrar la población de cada nuevo distrito del Consejo de la Ciudad de San Mateo.
Uno de los principales objetivos de este proceso es mantener las comunidades juntas dentro de cada distrito. ¡Por eso es tan 
importante que colabore! Complete este formulario para decirnos acerca de su comunidad de interés - para que puede ser 
preservado en las nuevas líneas del distrito.
Queremos conocer su opinión. Envíenos un correo 
electrónico a districtelections@cityofsanmateo.org
o visite www.cityofsanmateo.org/districtelections
¿PREGUNTAS O COMENTARIOS? 
¿Qué es una Comunidad de Interés?
Una Comunidad de Interés (COI) es un grupo de personas que comparten intereses sociales o económicos comunes, que 
viven en un área geográficamente definible y que deben ser incluidas dentro de un único distrito a efectos de una 
representación efectiva y justa en las futuras elecciones al Ayuntamiento. 
Algunas COI se consideran "clases protegidas" en el sentido de que tienen derechos a través de las leyes estatales o federales 
de derechos civiles o de derechos de voto. Algunos ejemplos de clases protegidas en los distritos son las personas latinas, 
asiáticas o afro americanas. 
Hay otras COI potenciales que también pueden ser consideradas en la distribución de distritos. Los ejemplos incluyen, pero 
no se limitan a: personas que viven en un barrio en particular; grupos con vínculos culturales, religiosos o históricos; personas 
que comparten preocupaciones tales como riesgos ambientales, intereses de transporte, inquilinos o propietarios de viviendas, 
etc. 
La COI no incluye las relaciones con partidos políticos, cargos políticos actuales o candidatos.
¿Qué criterios ayudarán al Ayuntamiento a comprender la importancia de su comunidad en el 
proceso de distribución de distritos?
Al momento de documentar su comunidad, es importante destacar los siguientes temas para ayudar al Ayuntamiento en el 
proceso de distribución de distritos:
• La cultura, las características o los vínculos compartidos de su comunidad.
• Los límites geográficos distinguibles de su comunidad y el número de personas que viven en su zona.
• La relación de su comunidad con la ciudad y cómo se ve afectada por las decisiones políticas tomadas por el
Ayuntamiento.
El público puede presentar cualquier testimonio, pero es importante recordar que su aportación puede aprovecharse mejor 
si aborda estos tres temas.
¿Qué puede hacer para seguir participando en el proceso de distribución de distritos?
1. Envíe su formulario de comunidad de interés y devuélvalo por correo electrónico a districtelections@cityofsanmateo.org
o envíe por correo o entregue una copia impresa a: City Clerk Patrice Olds, 330 West 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
2.Asista a una de las reuniones públicas del Consejo de la Ciudad de San Mateo, los horarios y lugares se publicarán en la
página web de las Elecciones del Distrito: www.cityofsanmateo.org/districtelections
APRENDA SOBRE
LA DISTRIBUCIÓN 
DE DISTRITOS
ESCANEE EL CÓDIGO QR AQUÍ
Formulario de Comunidad de Interés
14 of 88

--- page 15 ---
La siguiente información es opcional y voluntaria. No está obligado a completar todas las preguntas que aparecen 
a continuación, pero cuanta más información pueda proporcionar, mejor será el proceso. Si proporciona 
información de contacto, le enviaremos información actualizada sobre el proceso
Nombre:
 Correo electrónico:
1. ¿Cuál es el barrio/código postal donde reside?
2. ¿Cómo describe su comunidad?
3. Explique la ubicación geográfica de su comunidad. ¿Cuáles son los límites/características físicas (calles, autopistas,
parques, etc.)?
4. ¿Existen servicios públicos (líneas de autobús, bibliotecas, colegios públicos, parques de bomberos, etc.) que
ayuden a identificar su comunidad?
5. Identifique las principales instituciones culturales/recreativas/educativas/religiosas de su comunidad:
6. ¿Qué idiomas se hablan en su comunidad? ¿Cuáles son los principales grupos raciales/étnicos de su comunidad?
7. Entorno (costero, interior, urbano/suburbano):
8. Tipos de viviendas (casas unifamiliares, apartamentos, condominios, casas rodantes, etc.):
9. ¿Qué asuntos son importantes para su comunidad? Por favor, describa cómo los temas que se presentan al
Consejo Municipal tienen un impacto en su comunidad.
10. ¿Qué más le gustaría contarnos sobre su comunidad?
Por correo postal
Atn: City Clerk Patrice Olds
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo CA 94403
ENVÍE SU FORMULARIO DE 
COMUNIDAD DE INTERÉS:
Por correo electrónico:
districtelections@cityofsanmateo.org 
Su formulario de Comunidad de Interés
Complete su formulario
 en línea
15 of 88

--- page 16 ---
在收到律師函通知聖馬刁市的一般（At-Large）選舉制度違反了《加州投票權法案》（California Voting Rights 
Act，簡稱CVRA）後，市府開展了轉向分區（By-District）選舉的流程，並希望在 2021 年 11 月之前完成此流程。
您的反饋將對此流程至關重要，同時，市府也將參考2020 年度美國人口普查的數據以確保每個新劃分的聖馬刁
市議會選區能代表平均的人口。
轉向流程的其中一個主要目標是確保所有社區都能被納入在各個分區內，因此您的意見對於此流程相當重要！
請填寫完成此表格，協助我們瞭解有關您共同權益社區的資訊，以便這些社區能被納入在同一個選區。 
我們希望聽到您的反饋！ 
請透過電子郵件districtelections@cityofsanmateo.org 
或前往 www.cityofsanmateo.org/districtelections與我們聯絡 
有疑問或意見嗎？ 
什麼是共同權益社區？
共同權益社區 (Community of Interest, 簡稱COI) 是指在地理位置上相鄰接，並享有共同社區與經濟權益的一群人
。為確保共同權益社區在未來的市議會選舉中能獲得有效和公平的代表權，這些社區應被劃分在一起。 
部分共同權益社區被視為「受保護階層」（protected classes），他們透過州或聯邦公民權或投票權法律享有權
利。在選區劃分中受保護階層的例子包括拉丁裔、亞裔或黑人。
在劃分選區時，還有其他潛在共同權益社區，包括但不限於：居住在特定鄰里中的居民；有文化、宗教或歷史
聯結的群體；關心共同議題的群體，例如：環境危害、交通利益、租客或屋主等。 
共同權益社區不包括與政黨、在位者或政治候選人的關係。 
如何協助市議會在選區劃分的過程中瞭解社區的重要性？
在記錄您的社區時，應著重於概述以下幾點，以協助市議會進行選區劃分流程：
‧ 社區中共同的文化、特色或聯結
‧ 您所在社區的地理界線，以及居民人口數量
‧ 您所在社區與城市的關係，以及市議會政策對社區帶來的影響
公眾可以提交任何反饋。但請特別注意，您的反饋如能包含上述三點，將最能幫助本市瞭解各共同權益社區的
需求。
如何進一步參與分區流程？
1. 提交您的共同權益社區表。您可透過電子郵件 districtelections@cityofsanmateo.org 或將表格郵寄至City Clerk
Patrice Olds, 330 West 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403。您也可以親自前往該地址，遞交表格。
2. 參與聖馬刁市市議會的公眾會議，會議時間和地點將公布在分區選舉的網頁：
www.cityofsanmateo.org/districtelections
瞭解更多有關選區
劃分的相關訊息
請掃描二維碼
共同權益社區表
16 of 88

--- page 17 ---
以下資訊為選填。您無需填完以下全部問題，但您提供的資訊越多，就越能幫助本市展開轉向流程。
如果您提供了聯絡資訊，我們將會向您發送有關轉向流程的最新消息。
姓名：
 電子郵箱：
1. 您居住的街區/郵政編碼？
2. 您會如何描述您的社區？
3. 請說明您社區所在的地理位置。主要的地理邊界/特點（街道、高速公路、公園等）有哪些？
4. 是否有公共服務設施（公交線路、圖書館、公立學校、消防站等等）能幫助識別您的社區？
5. 識別您社區中的主要文化/娛樂/教育/宗教機構：
6. 您的社區使用哪些語言？您的社區中有哪些主要種族/族裔？
7. 環境（沿海、內陸、城市/郊區）：
8. 住宅類型（獨棟住宅、公寓、共有公寓Condo、移動屋Mobile homes等）：
9. 哪些問題對您的社區來說至關重要？請說明市議會面對的問題如何對您的社區產生影響。
10. 關於您的社區，您還有什麼附加評論？
透過郵寄：
Attn: City Clerk Patrice Olds
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo CA 94403
提交您的共同權益社區表：
透過電子郵件：
districtelections@cityofsanmateo.org 
共同權益社區表
網上填寫表格
17 of 88

--- page 18 ---
From:  
Sent: Saturday, August 21, 2021 4:30 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: District elections to council seats.and at large mayor 
 
Dear City Council, 
 
I am totally in favor converting district elections to council seats and totally against 
having an "at large Mayor". 
 
Districting is meant to allow you a representative for your neighborhood.  An at large 
mayor position goes against that idea.  Further, districting reduces $$ needed to run for 
office - so why create an at large mayor position that money can buy?   
 
The mayor position should continue to be a rotational major,  who may have strong 
biases one way or the other,  but not be elected for all 4 years.   San Bruno is the only 
city anywhere nearby to have an at large major, and is currently trying to get back to the 
rotation practice.   Any thought of an at large mayor does not serve the intents of 
districting, nor does it best serve residents as evidenced by San Bruno's about face. 
 
Thanks for taking the time to listen 
 
Best 
Gary Isoardi 
 
18 of 88

--- page 19 ---
From: 
KATHY HUTT < > 
Sent on: Monday, August 23, 2021 1:57:11 AM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 4 year Mayor 
  
  
 
 
 
Sent from my iPhone 
Please keep the Mayor of San 
Mateo on rotation for a period of one year. This has worked well for San Mateo & should 
continue. 
Kathlyn Hutt 
 
 
 
From: 
KATHY HUTT < > 
Sent on: Monday, August 23, 2021 1:51:08 AM 
To: 
Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 4 Year Mayor 
  
  
 
 
 
Sent from my iPhone 
I would like to protest the idea of a 4 year Mayor in San Mateo. 
 
San Mateo rotates the Mayor position every year & each member of City Council serves 
for one year, this is what most citizens of San Mateo want. Please let us 
continue this as it has worked well for the citizens of San Mateo in the past & should be 
continued. San Bruno has a 4 year Mayor & they are trying to change this program as it 
hasn’t worked for San Bruno. 
Thank you, Kathlyn Hutt. 
 
19 of 88

--- page 20 ---
From: 
HOLLY HEWITT < > 
Sent on: Sunday, August 22, 2021 6:52:04 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
CC: 
Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Council Elections 
  
  
 
Hello all, 
I do hope the idea of an at large Mayor is dropped. It has and will continue to serve San Mateo best 
for the position of Mayor to be rotated between council members. 
Let’s continue to share the power of that office. 
Thank you, 
Holly Hewitt 
 
 
Sent from my iPhone 
 
 
20 of 88

--- page 21 ---
From: 
 Karen Herrel< > 
Sent on: Sunday, August 22, 2021 8:02:26 PM 
To: 
Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Joe 
Goethals <jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org> 
CC: 
Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: CC meeting 09232021 - district elections selection of Mayor 
  
  
 
Honorable Mayor and Councilmembers, 
 
As you continue to discuss moving to district election of councilmembers, the idea of a directly 
elected mayor has been floated. Some members of the public sent comments opposing this idea 
before your last meeting where potential changes to the election process was discussed (7/19/2021). 
In July no one mentioned anything about a proposal to change to a directly elected mayor. I had 
thought that might mean that the proposal had been dropped. Now I understand that it will be 
discussed at your August 23rd meeting, along with the issues surrounding moving to district 
elections.  
 
I, and many others, have already written to you opposing this idea - please see the correspondence 
for the 7/19/2021 meeting. The concerns people raised then are still important. To recap mine: 
 
This concept has no true relationship to a move to district elections. Instead it seems to be 
a solution in search of a problem. There is no valid reason to abandon a yearly rotation which as 
served the city well since its founding, and is called for in our City Charter.  
 
Turning the position of Mayor into an at large directly elected one, assumedly for a 4 year term, is 
completely unrelated to the call for district elections. In fact its effect is exactly opposite to whatever 
benefits may be gained from having councilmembers run in smaller areas. If it is difficult to get 
community members to run now, challenged by the cost of running citywide, just imagine what kind of 
big money mailer deluge a directly elected mayor would require. And for what? 
 
A one year mayor position, rotating through the councilmembers, will be even more important to the 
community when there are district elections. Every part of town will have its chance to have its 
community leader on the Council have the honor of leading the city. The spotlight that can shine on 
each part of town is not to be underestimated. Back in the 1990s we had the energetic and focused 
leadership of Mayor Claire Mack.  She was (and still is) a dynamo who brought solutions to problems 
all over town, but especially brought increased attention to her lifelong neighborhood. She, and her 
position as a black woman mayor, brought such positive prestige to San Mateo that she was even a 
guest on the Oprah Winfrey show. Talk about a high point for San Mateo! Can you imagine someone 
like her being able to win in a high stakes citywide election for a 4 year Mayor position? Not going to 
happen. Think of what we would be losing with such a change. And for what???? 
 
As I said in my earlier email, please let's make it clear from the outset 
that proposed election changes are directly related to the possible legal issues that have been raised, 
and not some confusing overlay mixed into this situation. Having this elected mayor idea out 
in the community will add confusion and potential opposition to a logical process where none should 
exist.  Please reject it right now so we can all concentrate on the issue before us..  
 
Karen Herrel 
21 of 88

--- page 22 ---
From: 
Brian Haverty < > 
Sent on: Sunday, August 22, 2021 10:32:59 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: LET’S KEEP OUR MAYOR IN ROTATION. 
  
  
 
 LET’S KEEP OUR MAYOR IN ROTATION.   
 
 
Kind Regards, 
 
 
Brian Haverty 
 
22 of 88

--- page 23 ---
From: 
Catherine Hart < > 
Sent on: Sunday, August 22, 2021 9:24:43 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: No At Large Mayor Please 
  
  
 
No offense, let’s stick with rotation. The only person this would benefit would be an ambitious 
mayor.  
 
Catherine Hart 
 
23 of 88

--- page 24 ---
From: 
 < > 
Sent on: Monday, August 23, 2021 6:56:25 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
CC: 
Subject: Opposition to an "at-large mayor position 
  
  
 
  
  
City Council members, 
My wife and I are long time San Mateo residents living at 364 Franklin Street, San Mateo, CA.  
  
We are opposed to a mayor at-large position and request that the council turn down a proposal 
for such a position.  Districting is intended to allow us a go-to representative for our 
neighborhood.  The concept of an at-large mayor goes against that idea. 
  
Please turn down any such proposal. 
  
Thank You 
Mark and Joanne Grieco 
  
Mark Grieco 
  
Joanne Grieco 
 
 
24 of 88

--- page 25 ---
From: 
ROB GIBSON < > 
Sent on: Monday, August 23, 2021 5:59:37 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: No 'at large mayor'. 
  
  
 
Dear Council Members, 
As a life long San Mateo resident I am opposed to both the ideas of district elections 
and an 'at large mayor'. District elections pit us against each other. The district with the 
most funds or most vocal and active members gets the attention. 
An 'at large mayor' stops our current practice of a rotational mayor which has served us 
well. Why change it? 
 
Please reconsider your opinions on both of these matters. 
Thank You, 
Rob Gibson 
 
25 of 88

--- page 26 ---
From: 
Mike Germano < > 
Sent on: Monday, August 23, 2021 1:40:30 AM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: San Mateo Mayor office 
  
  
 
Dear San Mateo Council Members, 
 
As a life long resident of San Mateo and having seen many, many changes in our city, I 
want to voice my concern against the possibility of an At Large Mayor. 
 
I fee better represented in city matters with our current method of mayor rotation.  Its 
more equitable to people living in the various areas of our city. 
 
Thank you for considering and listening to resident concerns. 
 
Mike Germano 
 
26 of 88

--- page 27 ---
From: 
Ronnie Eaton <> 
Sent on: Sunday, August 22, 2021 3:26:41 AM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Districting and future Mayor selection 
  
  
 
As we move to district elections in our city, we also want to ensure that the position of Mayor remains as it 
is now, rotated through elected council members, and not, as some are suggesting, become a four year 
term elected position.  
 
The whole point of the district election concept is to provide more equal representation amongst all 
citizens in our city.  Electing a Mayor will require candidates to raise a lot of money which will in turn allow 
more special interest money to warp our local government with their undue influence.  No. 
 
We do NOT want to see a four year term elected position for Mayor of this city. Period. 
 
Bruce and Ronnie Eaton 
 
27 of 88

--- page 28 ---
From: 
Lisa Nash  
Sent on: Monday, August 23, 2021 3:00:59 PM 
To: 
Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San 
Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Public Comment on Tonight's District Elections Public Hearing #1 
  
  
 
Thank you for the opportunity to make public comment on ensuring San Mateo's 
move to District Elections is of maximum benefit to our city and its residents. 
 
1) I would encourage City Council to actively consider expanding the number of 
districts in San Mateo from 5 to 7.  One of the key goals of moving to District 
Elections is to give greater voice and representation to underrepresented 
groups.  Given San Mateo's size of approaching 110,000 people and the diversity of 
neighborhoods and interests in our city, we should analyse in detail how creating 7 
districts and 7 City Council representatives could give greater voice to the 
underrepresented.  Both Redwood City and Palo Alto have 7 members on their City 
Councils.  I recommend our District Elections process reach out to both cities for their 
feedback on how effective having 7 vs. 5 council members has been.  I also 
recommend including this question in all District Elections public discussions and 
workshops and requesting specific public feedback on it. 
 
2) I strongly support the continuation of the annual rotation of the role of San Mateo 
mayor.  I strongly disapprove of creating an at-large mayor position in San 
Mateo.  Once again, the goal of moving to District Elections is to increase the voice 
and representation of the underrepresented.  Having an overarching at-large mayor 
would muffle the voice and influence of each of the District council members and, 
thus, of the Districts.  Proponents of an at-large mayoral role say it is needed to "knit" 
the city together.  In all the public materials distributed about the transition to District 
Elections, however, it is stressed that district council members would still govern on 
behalf of the entire city and be required to take the interests of all segments of the city 
into consideration in all their actions.  There would, therefore, not be any need for an 
"at-large" mayor.  Having an at-large mayor would create a position of 
disproportionate power, reduce the impact of having district council members in the 
first place, and make it more difficult to replace the mayor with other candidates, as 
has been demonstrated in other cities. 
 
Thank you for receiving my public comment, 
Lisa Diaz Nash 
 
 
28 of 88

--- page 29 ---
From: 
mary cravalho < > 
Sent on: Monday, August 23, 2021 4:29:52 AM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: At-Large Mayor Contemplation 
  
  
 
Dear Honorable San Mateo City Council Members, 
 
Please consider the following issues related to changing from our current rotating mayor 
process to an elected At-Large mayor selection process: 
 
1. A rotating mayor system is more democratic and equitable as the city transitions 
to district elections because it supports equitable representation of community 
members in each neighborhood. 
2. A rotating mayor system encourages thoughtful collaboration and mutual respect 
amongst city council members in the pursuit of working for the best interest of the 
city of San Mateo.  
3. Our current rotating system allows for cost-savings as it eliminates the potential 
for expensive elections every two years. 
4. According to a June 1, 2021 San Mateo Daily Journal article, San Bruno, the only 
reported city in San Mateo County to follow the elected At-Large mayor selection 
process, is considering changing to a rotating mayor system. 
Please do not change to an At-Large mayor selection process. 
 
Mayor Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor Bonilla, Council Member Goethals, Council Member 
Lee and Council Member Papan, thank you for all you do in service to our beloved city 
of San Mateo. 
 
Respectfully yours in San Mateo, 
 
Mary Cravalho 
 
29 of 88

--- page 30 ---
From: 
Bert Carlson < > 
Sent on: Monday, August 23, 2021 5:42:52 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: San Mateo Mayoral Rotation 
  
  
 
Good day.  My name is Albert Carlson.  My wife Eva and I have been long term residents of Sunnybrae. 
 
I would like to voice my support for keeping the current practice of rotating the position of mayor in 
rotation among members of the City Council.  We are opposed to the concept of electing a "mayor- 
at-large" in four year terms. 
 
Simply stated, having a mayoral position filled in rotation by elected members of our City Council is a 
more direct way of fostering and ensuring democratic representation within our city.  This allows for a 
greater diversity of viewpoint, and potentially increased civic involvement in our city districts. 
 
The concept of having a mayor-at-large elected to a four year term leads to a potential disconnect between 
the mayor-at-large and the residents within the districts of the city.  Far better to keep our representation at 
the grassroots level. 
 
Thank you for your consideration of this opinion. 
 
Albert and Eva Carlson 
 
30 of 88

--- page 31 ---
From: 
joyce burns < > 
Sent on: Sunday, August 22, 2021 4:40:09 AM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Mayor 
  
  
 
Hi, Council people—just a quick note to say if we are going to have district representation on the City 
Council, wouldn’t it be counter-productive to have one mayor for all 4 years rather than a mayor that 
rotates among the elected City Council members who represent their district?   We want a mayor that 
is chosen and rotated from the elected district representatives. 
Thank you,  Joyce Burns   
 
 
31 of 88

--- page 32 ---
From: 
Mary Beavins < > 
Sent on: Monday, August 23, 2021 2:41:44 AM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Rotational Mayor for San Mateo 
  
  
 
To the San Mateo City Council 
 
Dear Council Members: 
 
I am writing to inform the Council that I am strongly in favor of keeping the rotational 
mayor model for our city and strongly against the concept of an at-large mayor.   
 
The rotational mayor model is by definition a more equitable and community-
enhancing model:  The mayor's role is rotated among the council members which 
promotes equitability while having an at-large mayor model has the opposite effect. 
 
In addition, the rotational mayor model enhances a sense of community; different 
mayors bring different community backgrounds to the role and to share with the 
greater community of San Mateo. 
 
Having one person as mayor for four years is unhealthy for San Mateo.  We are a 
community of many people.  Sharing the mayor's role with the members in the City 
Council is the healthy, forward-looking, equitable, community-enhancing model we 
should continue to use.  There is no reason to change a practice that has served San 
Mateo very well. 
 
Sincerely. 
 
Mary Beavins 
 
32 of 88

--- page 33 ---
From: 
Linda Yates 
 
Sent on: Sunday, August 22, 2021 5:57:55 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: at Large Mayor 
  
  
 
We do not want or need at Large Mayor!! 
 
Linda Yates 
 
 
 
From: 
Linda Yates <
> 
Sent on: Sunday, August 22, 2021 5:55:49 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: at Large Mayor 
  
  
 
We do not want an at large Mayor why is this still a topic for discussion!! 
 
Linda Yates 
 
33 of 88

--- page 34 ---
From: 
ambwlsn < > 
Sent on: Sunday, August 22, 2021 10:19:14 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: At Large Mayor 
  
  
 
Can you please explain to me why this is even being considered. 
 
Anne Wilson 
 
34 of 88

--- page 35 ---
From: 
T W e i s s m i l l e r < > 
Sent on: Sunday, August 22, 2021 11:09:40 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Redistricting 
  
  
 
  
I support district elections with five districts, rotating the mayor as currently practiced.  I 
believe this is the best practice to ensure checks and balances and fairness to our residents. 
  
I oppose having four districts and electing a mayor at large.  In my opinion, this has greater 
potential of outside interests to tip the scales of our elections.  
  
Thank you for your service to the city and community. 
  
  
Tom 
Thomas Weissmiller (Weiβmϋller) 
 
35 of 88

--- page 36 ---
From: 
Michael < > 
Sent on: Monday, August 23, 2021 9:51:40 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
CC: 
Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; Drew 
Corbett <dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: CC Meeting 8/23/21 - District Elections Mayor At Large 
  
  
 
Honorable Mayor and Councilmembers -  
 
I'm more than a little surprised and dismayed at again having to take more time to 
oppose this after it was so clearly rejected the first time around, but here we are. The 
at-large mayor idea is a terrible and unnecessary idea, a solution to a problem that 
does not exist, and one designed solely to benefit a single current 
councilmember's political aspirations.  
 
The move to district elections is complicated enough - this would just add 
unnecessary complexity and risk into the process, all for something the city does not 
need or want. I feel like a broken record here, but I'm sure you're aware no other 
peninsula city does this, except San Bruno, and they are moving away from it. We 
should be moving to get and keep money OUT of elections - an at-large mayor would 
become a big-money election, and would likely result in a mayor going to the highest 
bidder. Bohannon et al already have outsized influence - let's not give people like him 
even more leverage over our city. 
 
Between this stunt, and Deputy Mayor Bonilla's shameless attempt to shanghai the GP 
process last week and eliminate R1 zoning, I think some of you have lost sight of the 
"public" in "public servant". I look forward to shouting this from the rooftops come 
election time, especially if I see "working hard for the neighborhoods" anywhere. The 
residents of San Mateo deserve leaders that focus on the important and necessary 
issues - of which there are many - facing our city. Find another way to remain relevant 
- stop wasting resident and staff's time, effort, and tax dollars with pointless, 
distracting, and self-serving legislation. 
 
- Michael Weinhauer 
 
 
36 of 88

--- page 37 ---
From: 
l watanuki < > 
Sent on: Monday, August 23, 2021 5:55:52 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
CC: 
lwatanuki6@gmail.com 
Subject: Agenda Item #1 - Transition to District-Based Elections for Councilmembers - Public Hearing #1 
  
  
 
Dear Mayor Rodriguez and Members of the City Council, 
 
Currently, San Mateo has a rotational system for Mayor and we would like to keep that in place. 
 
District Elections reduces the dollars needed to run for office and the rotational system for Mayor has 
worked well in the past. 
 
Thank you for your consideration. 
 
Laurie Watanuki 
 
37 of 88

--- page 38 ---
From: 
Jeffrey Wang < > 
Sent on: Sunday, August 22, 2021 8:58:04 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: At-Large Mayor 
  
  
 
I have lived in San Mateo for 36 years.  While I agree with the conversion of city council elections by 
district, I am totally against an at-large major.  I prefer to use the old system of rotating the mayor 
position among city council members. 
 
 
Jeffrey Wang 
 
 
38 of 88

--- page 39 ---
From: 
Maxine Terner < > 
Sent on: Sunday, August 22, 2021 9:18:14 PM 
To: 
Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence 
Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick 
Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Joe 
Goethals <jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org> 
CC: 
Drew Corbett <dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice 
Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: District elections & At Large Mayor selection 
  
  
 
Honorable Mayor and City Councilmembers, 
 
I support districting and strongly oppose having an at-large Mayor which seems in 
conflict with the principles of district elections and shared governance. Furthermore, 
the higher costs required to run for a city-wide position increases the influence of big 
money special interests in our local affairs. The rotation of the Mayor position 
amongst all council members is fair and has never been a problem that needs fixing.  
 
Going to district elections is intended to reduce the hurdles required to run for office 
and increase representation for communities of interest. An at-large Mayor achieves 
neither of these democratic principles. Please stop bringing this bad idea up.  
 
With regard to the Number of Districts discussion in the staff report, I support having 
5 districts, which will continue having 5 councilmembers.  
 
Maxine Terner 
 
39 of 88

--- page 40 ---
From: 
L Tara < > 
Sent on: Sunday, August 22, 2021 5:56:02 AM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: No to at large mayor voting format in the City San Mateo 
  
  
 
Also NO to Joe Goethals and his back room politics. 
 
40 of 88

--- page 41 ---
From: 
Lisa Taner < > 
Sent on: Sunday, August 22, 2021 6:45:31 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: No At Large Mayor, Thanks 
  
  
 
Council, 
 
People are confused as to why an at-large mayor position would even be contemplated as we 
phase into districting, but I assume this is still up for discussion this Monday night. 
 
I've never been a fan of districting for San Mateo, but I can't ignore the benefit that this allows 
the average person to better afford to run for Council given that the campaign costs to win a 
district would be so much less than a run citywide.  Therefore, for equitable purposes, which I 
know Joe and the rest of you are all big fans of, there should be zero consideration of an at-large 
mayoral position.  Zero.   
 
Let our mayors rotate as they have done historically, and let's not search for a 'fix' for something 
that ain't broken. 
 
Regards, 
 
Lisa Taner 
 
41 of 88

--- page 42 ---
From: 
Diane Smith < > 
Sent on: Monday, August 23, 2021 3:41:39 AM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: NO at large Major 
  
  
 
Dear Council-members, 
It bears repeating, the citizens of San Mateo do NOT want an at-large Mayor. Please keep the current 
rotation practice. 
As a side note, watching the construction on Saratoga and the over flow site, I am horrified that you 
once wanted this in Fiesta Meadows!! What were you thinking?? 
Concerned voter, 
Diane Smith 
 
42 of 88

--- page 43 ---
From: 
Kalvin Sid < > 
Sent on: Monday, August 23, 2021 4:29:41 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
CC: 
Karen C. Sid < > 
Subject: At large city mayor 
  
  
 
Dear San Mateo City Council, 
I wanted to express my disapproval of the idea of an at-large city mayor serving for 4 years.  To me 
this can lead to corruption and catering to the needs of special interest groups.  The rotational mayor 
is working for now.  I would not mind having a mayoral election to serve every 2 years, 6 years 
maximum.  I think that would be in the best interests of the citizens of San Mateo. 
 
Thank you for your consideration, 
Kalvin Sid 
 
 
43 of 88

--- page 44 ---
From: 
Linda Segervall < > 
Sent on: Monday, August 23, 2021 8:34:36 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: No Vote on New Mayor-at-Large Position for San Mateo 
  
  
 
Dear Council Members, 
 
Thank you for all your hard work on the behalf of San Mateo.  
 
It has come to my attention that the Council is considering a move to end the tradition 
of a rotational San Mateo Mayor position. This struck me as odd, since I have always 
thought that the rotation process was an excellent way to ensure equitable 
representation of various points of view within our wonderfully diverse City.  
 
The City is already considering major changes in the form of districting. I would 
strongly oppose the creation of a new Mayor-at-Large position.   
 
It is my hope that the Council will carefully consider the input from the public and 
realize that a move to a Mayor-at-Large position does not have community support. 
 
Thank you for your consideration. 
 
Best, 
Linda  
 
Linda Segervall Baldini | Principal 
 
44 of 88

--- page 45 ---
From: 
Judith Paton < > 
Sent on: Sunday, August 22, 2021 2:36:24 AM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Mayor by rotation 
  
  
 
I hope you will continue to allow the mayors to serve on a rotating basis, rather than allowing one with 
one point of view and one set of alliances to dominate for four years. 
Thank you 
Judith Paton 
 
 
45 of 88

--- page 46 ---
From: 
Thomas Morgan II < > 
Sent on: Monday, August 23, 2021 3:59:53 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: District Elections 
  
  
 
Dear Mayor and Council  
 
I am writing to support the switch to district election and to oppose an at large Mayor.  
 
I have not reviewed the information in of the lawsuit, but from watching past Council Meetings 
the at large Mayor did not seem to be part of the request, so I am not sure why it is part of the 
discussion? 
 
My area of concerns around district elections are: 
 
Term Limits - I would want to ensure current and past Council Members be either not be able to 
serve again or be held to current term limits. Current Council Members should not be able to 
restart the clock on time served. Neither current nor past should be allowed to move to a 
different district for a new term. 
 
Commissions and Committees - I would prefer these to be based on district as well. While at 
Music in the Park I asked a question of staff, it was their opinion that these are not elected 
positions and should not be subject to the district requirement. I respectfully disagree, if one 
district becomes more powerful (i.e. more representation) on the commission/ committees, then 
they will have a larger weighting in elections, which would defeat the purpose of switching to 
district elections.  
 
Elections - In the last election cycle in San Francisco there seemed to be Breed  and the Peskin 
candidate in every race. I hope our election do not turn into something similar. 
 
Thank you, 
 
Thomas Morgan 
 
San Mateo 
 
46 of 88

--- page 47 ---
From: 
Genel Morgan < > 
Sent on: Sunday, August 22, 2021 8:44:17 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Mayor position 
  
  
 
Dear City Council, 
 
I am strongly opposed to changing the rotational mayor position to an at-large position. 
 
San Bruno is the only city in this area with an at-large mayor and they are in the process of trying 
to reverse that. Let's learn from the experience of our neighbors. 
 
Please listen to your citizens who oppose this change. 
Genel Morgan 
San MAteo 
 
47 of 88

--- page 48 ---
From: 
Virginia McIsaac < > 
Sent on: Sunday, August 22, 2021 7:25:22 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: At Large Mayor 
  
  
 
I am vehemently against the AT Large Mayor position.  I believe it is a 
position that would be easily manipulated by big money developers.  Please 
vote no.   
 
Virginia McIsaac 
President 
San Mateo Park Neighborhood Association. 
 
 
48 of 88

--- page 49 ---
From: 
Peter Mandle < > 
Sent on: Sunday, August 22, 2021 7:41:38 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 
  
  
 
To:  Members of the City of San Mateo City Council 
 
This is to express my opposition to the proposed at-large mayor position.  As 
San Mateo changes to electing Council members by district, I hope you will 
maintain the current system of rotating the responsibility for mayor among the 
individual Council members.  I also hope that as you define the new districts, you 
will attempt to respect the existing neighborhood and neighborhood association 
boundaries.    
 
Both the associates and mayor responsibilities have worked for many years.   
 
Thank you for considering this request. 
 
Regards, 
Peter Mandle 
 
49 of 88

--- page 50 ---
From: 
 < > 
Sent on: Monday, August 23, 2021 2:28:17 AM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: At large Mayor 
  
  
 
Council, 
I am against the concept of an at large mayor. It makes no sense if you have districting for the purpose 
of varied neighborhood representation and then have an at-large mayor for four years. Seems like one 
district will be over represented for four years. Let’s keep to rotating mayors so that neighborhoods are 
represented more equitably. 
Thank you, 
Lisa Maley 
 
50 of 88

--- page 51 ---
From: 
 < > 
Sent on: Monday, August 23, 2021 4:26:07 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Keep rotating Mayor! 
  
  
 
Honorable City Council: 
Thank you so much all of you for your service. 
I am writing because I believe having a four year term for one mayor is in complete and 
total conflict with the move for district elections. 
The absolute best way to serve all the citizens of San Mateo is to keep the rotating 
Mayor system going. It serves all the residents well. Why this is even being considered I 
do not understand. 
Thank you so much. 
Tom Lease 
 
51 of 88

--- page 52 ---
From: 
linda lara < > 
Sent on: Monday, August 23, 2021 3:53:57 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Tonight's meeting: Topic of Districting 
  
  
 
While I support the idea of Districting for council representation throughout the city. 
 
I DO NOT support the idea of At Large Mayor positions. 
 
Thank you. 
 
Respectfully submitted. 
Linda Slocum Lara 
North Central San Mateo 
 
52 of 88

--- page 53 ---
From: 
Anna Kuhre < > 
Sent on: Monday, August 23, 2021 4:25:21 AM 
To: 
Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
Rick Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Joe 
Goethals <jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org> 
CC: 
Drew Corbett <dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Failed At Large Mayor concept 
  
  
 
Dear Mayor Rodriguez and Council Members,   
 
The At-Large Mayor concept, is the most ridiculous idea ever presented to the citizens of San Mateo. 
San Bruno is currently  trying to reverse this failed concept. It ridicules the very principles of why 
redistricting should be established. Redistricting is intended to fairly represent San Mateans interests, 
not serve the political ambitions of a certain council member, who wishes to remain in the forefront of 
the voters. Please give the citizens a new Redistricting policy that council members and citizens can 
be proud of. Do not commit the same mistake that San Bruno did.   
Sincerely,  Anna Kuhre 
 
53 of 88

--- page 54 ---
From: 
Dennis Keane < > 
Sent on: Sunday, August 22, 2021 2:15:22 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Do not implement at-large Mayor 
  
  
 
Dear Councilmembers, 
 
The only nearby city with this at-large Mayor configuration is working to replace it. Why would we 
head in that direction? I smell political ambition - not an effort to make our community more 
responsive to our various constituencies. 
 
Please keep our Mayoral representation as it is. 
 
Thank you, 
Dennis Keane 
 
54 of 88

--- page 55 ---
From: 
Chuck Kabala < > 
Sent on: Sunday, August 22, 2021 11:32:30 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: AT-LARGE MAYOR 
  
  
 
Dear San Mateo City Council members,  
 
At tomorrow night's city council meeting you will be discussing whether or not to have an at-large Mayor for 
San Mateo.  We are asking you to vote "no" on this suggestion!  The only way to ensure that our officials seek 
the best for San Mateo is to guarantee that they live within the city's limits.  Thank you. 
 
Sincerely, Beth and Chuck Kabala 
 
55 of 88

--- page 56 ---
From: 
 < > 
Sent on: Sunday, August 22, 2021 7:51:59 PM 
To: 
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 
  
  
 
We do not want an At Large Mayor in Fiesta Gardens. 
 
56 of 88

--- page 57 ---
THE FOLLOWING COMMENTS 
WERE RECEIVED AFTER THE 
DAIS COMMENTS WERE 
DISTRIBUTED TO COUNCIL 
57 of 88

--- page 58 ---
From: Robin Gage < > 
Sent: Monday, August 23, 2021 4:59 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: No At-Large Mayor  
  
 
Dear Council Members,  
 
Please let our mayors continue to rotate.  I am against an at-large mayoral position 
which doesn't seem necessary. I have really appreciated the rotational nature of the 
mayor role in San Mateo and feel it gives all San Mateans a stronger, more equitable 
voice.   Electing a mayor for 4 years would seem to introduce additional campaign costs 
and a bought mayor.  
 
Sincerely,  
 
Robin Gage 
 
58 of 88

--- page 59 ---
From: Michael Nash < >  
Sent: Monday, August 23, 2021 8:58 AM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; Citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.com 
Subject: District Elections  
 
Dear Councilmembers: 
 
 
I strongly support the continuation of the annual rotation of the role of San Mateo mayor.  I strongly 
disapprove of creating an at-large mayor position in San Mateo. The idea that an overarching mayor 
would knit the new districts together has been proposed as a reason to change the current process for 
appointing a mayor.   
 
The opposite is more likely to occur since the at-large Mayor position would become a force unto its 
own, not a unifying one, as the individual in that position would have a unique group of voters that 
could change the dynamics of the council with a single person elected at large. It would also require a 
reduction (or increase) in the number of districts to maintain an odd-numbered council.   
 
It would be better to continue the rotation that we now have to give each councilor the same role and 
the understanding that a collaborative position will avoid "getting even" when it is another councilor's 
time as Mayor.  
 
 
 
Michael Nash 
 
59 of 88

--- page 60 ---
City of San Mateo
2021 District Elections
Community Outreach Meetings
60 of 88

--- page 61 ---
Se EDS
()% PARTNERS

Welcome

61 of 88


--- page 62 ---
Agenda
Things we will cover:
•
California Voting Rights Act
•
What is Districting
•
Traditional Districting/Redistricting Principles 
•
Districting Timeline
•
Communities of Interest
•
Map Tool Demonstration 
•
Public Testimony on Communities of Interest
•
Public Hearing Schedule
62 of 88

--- page 63 ---
What is the CVRA?
The California Voting Rights Act is a state law that 
prohibits the use of At Large Election Systems in local 
government if there is Racially Polarized Voting. 
“At Large” is defined as anything other than a system in which an 
elected official lives in a district, and is only elected by members 
of that district.
“Racially Polarized Voting” is defined as differences in voting 
patterns which can be shown to be correlated to race, religion, 
national origin, or membership in any other protected class.
63 of 88

--- page 64 ---
What is the CVRA?
The California Voting Rights Act takes the principles of the 
Federal Voting Rights Act and expands it regarding 
districted elections in two key ways:
While Federal law uses “majority minority” districts as a standard 
for vulnerability, the CVRA only requires “ability to influence.”
The CVRA requires that plaintiffs get full reimbursement for legal 
fees associated with any successful challenge. 
64 of 88

--- page 65 ---
What is the CVRA?
The California Voting Rights Act takes the principles of the 
Federal Voting Rights Act and expands it regarding 
districted elections in two key ways:
While Federal law uses “majority minority” districts as a standard 
for vulnerability, the CVRA only requires “ability to influence.”
The CVRA requires that plaintiffs get full reimbursement for legal 
fees associated with any successful challenge. These can be 
lessened or eliminated if the district follows a strict and prompt 
process for districting.
65 of 88

--- page 66 ---
What is Districting
Definition
Districting is the initial process of creating election district 
boundaries.
These boundaries determine:
•
Eligibility to run for office – must live within boundaries to 
qualify for election.
•
Who votes in the election – only voters within the district vote 
for their councilmember.
66 of 88

--- page 67 ---
What is Districting
Definition
Districting is the initial process of creating election district 
boundaries.
These boundaries do not determine:
•
How the city decides to govern. The city can still work to 
achieve goals that benefit the city as a whole rather than the 
interests of any single district.
•
How services or relationships between the city and the public 
are managed.
67 of 88

--- page 68 ---
Traditional Districting Principles
There are a number of criteria that have been used nationally 
and upheld by courts.
• Relatively equal size - people, not citizens
• Contiguous – districts should not hop/jump
• Maintain “communities of interest”
• Follow city/county/local government lines
• Keep districts compact – appearance/function
Preventing a District from becoming a Gerrymander
68 of 88

--- page 69 ---
Traditional Districting Principles
There are a number of criteria that have been used nationally 
and upheld by courts.
• Relatively equal size - people, not citizens
• Contiguous – districts should not hop/jump
• Maintain “communities of interest”
• Follow city/county/local government lines
• Keep districts compact – appearance/function
Drawing New City Council Lines for Fair Representation
69 of 88

--- page 70 ---
Communities of Interest
Communities of interest are the building blocks of districts.
A community of interest includes ethnic and language minorities and 
other groups.
•
Subjective
•
Open-ended to be as inclusive as possible
Examples of Voting Rights Act Communities
• Latinos
• Asians
• African Americans
Bringing like people together for representation
70 of 88

--- page 71 ---
Communities of Interest
Communities of interest are the building blocks of districts.
A community of interest includes ethnic and language minorities and 
other groups.
•
Subjective
•
Open-ended to be as inclusive as possible
Examples of Voting Rights Act Communities
• Latinos
• Asians
• African Americans
While communities of interest may include race, it cannot be the 
predominant factor in drawing district boundaries.
Bringing like people together for representation
71 of 88

--- page 72 ---
Communities of Interest
•
Historical communities
•
Economic interests
•
Racial composition
•
Ethnic Areas
•
Cultural amenities
•
Religious facilities
•
Immigrant communities
•
Languages spoken
•
Geographic features
•
Neighborhoods
•
Economic opportunity zones
•
Tourism Areas
•
School districts
•
Outdoor recreation areas
•
Communities defined by natural 
resource features
•
Downtown / Urban
•
Rural or Agricultural
•
Homeowner or Renters
•
Creative arts communities
•
Media markets
•
Many, many more
Bringing like people together for representation
72 of 88

--- page 73 ---
What is NOT a Community of Interest
The Fair Maps Act explicitly prohibits these groups from 
being considered as communities of interest
•
Political party affiliation
•
Incumbents
•
Political candidates 
It also is hard, in districting to truly consider:
•
Groups of similarly minded people who do not share a similar 
geographic location.
•
Communities of Interest that are city-wide.
Preventing a Districting from becoming a Gerrymander
73 of 88

--- page 74 ---
Communities of Interest
Three Critical Questions in Defining YOUR Community
Communities can be best described by answering these three 
questions:
•
Does the community have a shared culture, characteristics or 
bond?
•
Is the community geographic in nature? Is the community 
able to be mapped?
•
What is the community’s relationship with the jurisdiction 
being districted?  How is it affected by the policy decisions 
made by the elected officials?
74 of 88

--- page 75 ---
Is this a Community of Interest?
A group of renters who live downtown testifies to the City 
Council. 
Would this be considered a Community of Interest?
75 of 88

--- page 76 ---
Is this a Community of Interest?
A group of renters who live downtown testifies to the City 
Council. 
Would this be considered a Community of Interest?
YES! This group of residents can easily to be mapped in a 
distinct area AND they share a common policy interest, 
which can be addressed through legislation or public 
services. 
76 of 88

--- page 77 ---
Is this a Community of Interest?
A historically-recognized town dating back to the late 
1800s but now has a minimal population is within the 
lines of a city. 
Should the City Council prioritize this historical town when 
drawing their maps?
77 of 88

--- page 78 ---
Is this a Community of Interest?
A historically-recognized town dating back to the late 
1800s now has a minimal population and is within the 
lines of the city. 
Should the City Council prioritize this historical town when 
drawing their maps?
YES! Historical communities are recognized as a 
community of interest and should be considered when 
drawing maps.
78 of 88

--- page 79 ---
Is this a Community of Interest?
A group of dog-owners, living in the suburbs banded 
together to push their local elected officials to put in a dog 
water fountain in their dog park.  
Would their City Council consider this a community of 
interest?
79 of 88

--- page 80 ---
Is this a Community of Interest?
A group of dog-owners, living in the suburbs banned 
together to push their local elected officials to put in a dog 
water fountain in their dog park.  
Would their City Council consider this a community of 
interest?
YES! This is a group of people in a shared geographic 
location who have similar needs for public services.
80 of 88

--- page 81 ---
Is this a Community of Interest?
A statewide group of people who are fans of the San 
Francisco Giants testifies to the local City Council.
Is this a Community of Interest?
81 of 88

--- page 82 ---
Is this a Community of Interest?
A statewide group of people who are fans of the San 
Francisco Giants testifies to the local City Council.
Is this a Community of Interest?
NO! It is important that a community of interest is distinct 
enough to draw on a map. This group overlaps throughout 
the entire state, and it is unlikely that a governing agency 
has any say over these issues.
82 of 88

--- page 83 ---
Community of Interest Forms 
Submitting Your COI Form
• Input can be provided in community workshops, public 
hearings or using the City’s Community of Interest Form.
•
You can find these on
the website as a part of 
overall community engagement
strategy.
83 of 88

--- page 84 ---
Map Submissions
Online Map Submissions will be available in the coming 
month on DistrictR – an online mapping platform that the 
City will be using.
Two types of expected input:
•
Community of Interest  Forms & Maps (Now – End of Process)
•
District Plans Based on 2020 Data (Release of Data – Final 
Adoption)
84 of 88

--- page 85 ---
Communities of Interest
The City of San Mateo will be using DistrictR as a public 
mapping tool to allow residents to draw their own 
Communities of Interest. 
Drawing YOUR Communities of Interest
https://districtr.org/california
85 of 88

--- page 86 ---
City of San Mateo City Council
Timeline for Upcoming Outreach Meetings & Community Workshops
Virtual Public Hearings:
6:00 PM via Zoom 
August 23  at 6PM
September 13 at 6PM
September 30 at 6PM
October 14 at 6PM
November 1 at 7:30 PM
In- Person Community Workshops:
August 21
10AM: Main Library Oak Room
August 21
2PM: King Center (Spanish)
September 25
2PM: Main Library Oak Room
October 2
9:30AM: Congregational Church of San Mateo
October 2
2 PM: Senior Center
86 of 88

--- page 87 ---
City of San Mateo Districting Website 
www.cityofsanmateo.org/districtelections
87 of 88

--- page 88 ---
& @ REDISTRICTING
© @ PARTNERS
