source: packet.pdf
sha256: 1e77a6734c719b896956aed7ae05a94a27fb2f5ed2dbe774f6f12a76fcc3cfae
pages: 426
ocr_pages: 172
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
January 21, 2025
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Robert Newsom Jr.
Adam Loraine
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: January 21, 2025
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 813 0997 9074    Passcode: 391107
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Consideration for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CEREMONIAL
1.
Kent Trasher, Fire Chief – Commendatory Resolution
2.
HIP Housing Calendar – Recognition
3.
Rethink Waste – Poster Contest Winner
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
4.
CalHome Housing Rehabilitation Loan Program Administration – Agreement
Approve an agreement with Rebuilding Together Peninsula (RTP) in the amount of $140,000 to provide program
administration services for the City’s housing rehabilitation loan program funded by the State of California
CalHome grant program.
CEQA: This Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
5.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Digester 2 Cleaning — Agreement
1 of 426

--- page 2 ---
Adopt a Resolution approving an alternative purchasing procedure to award an Agreement to Bristola, LLC for
Wastewater Treatment Plant Digester 2 Cleaning services in the amount of $364,100, with a contingency in the
amount of $36,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form
presented and approve change orders within the approved contingency amount.
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” in that the cleaning of Digestor 2
consists of the operation, repair, or maintenance of an existing public structure, facility, or mechanical equipment
involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
6.
Enterprise Resource Planning Software Project – Supplemental Budget Appropriation and Change Orders
Adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental budget appropriation of $210,172 from unassigned fund balance
of the Equipment Replacement Fund to increase the capital budget for the Enterprise Resource Planning Project;
approve Change Order No. 8 to the master services agreement with Collaborative Solutions, LLC for ERP
implementation services in the amount of $199,922 for a new agreement total of $4,739,292; approve Change
Order No. 485765 to the master subscription agreement with Workday, Inc. for delivery assurance services in the
amount of $10,250 for a new agreement total of $187,605; and authorize the City Manager to execute the
Change Orders in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: Approval of the change orders for ERP implementation support is not subject to CEQA review under the
common sense exemption in it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the activity in question
may have a significant effect on the environment (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061.) In addition, approval of a
supplemental budget appropriation for the Project is not subject to CEQA review in that it consists of a
governmental fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a
potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).))
7.
Examination of Sales or Transactions and Use Tax Records – Approval
Adopt a Resolution to authorize Hinderlighter de Llamas and Associates to examine sales or transactions and use
tax records for all sales and transactions and use taxes.
CEQA: This Resolution to authorize examination of sales or transactions and use tax records is not a project
subject to CEQA, because it consists of a government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any
specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines
Section 15378(b)(4).)
8.
New Construction Reach Codes for the 2022 Code Cycle — Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.24 “Energy Code” and Chapter 23.70
“Green Building Code” to require enhanced energy performance for new construction, repeal unenforceable
measures of the City’s current reach codes, and make a minor edit to the City’s electric-readiness requirements.
CEQA: This action to adopt reach codes and amend the energy Code and Green Building Code is categorically
exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting,
leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or
topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
9.
Parks and Recreation — Classification Updates
Adopt a Resolution to approve the revised job specifications for the Landscape Laborer and Landscape
Maintenance Worker I/II to reflect a flexible staffed series pursuant to the recent MOU agreement.
CEQA: This classification update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical
2 of 426

--- page 3 ---
impact on the environment.(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
NEW BUSINESS
10.
Historic Policy Update Effort Professional Services – Appropriation and Agreement
Review and provide direction on historic preservation policies, including: the adoption of a Resolution to
appropriate $328,743 (Option 1) or $394,450 (Option 2) from the Advance Planning Fund to the Historic Policy
Update project, with each option corresponding to a different project schedule; and approve an agreement with
Rincon Consultants for community outreach and technical support related to historic policy and code
amendments; and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and
to revise it as needed based on the selected option.
CEQA: The appropriation of funds and agreement approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an
organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the
environment.(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
3 of 426

--- page 4 ---
:
.
= |
x
:
a

4 of 426


--- page 5 ---
"My Green Routine"

Melissa J., 5th Grade, Baywood Elementary, San Mateo

5 of 426


--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
                                       
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-3133
File ID: 24-9431
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
January 21, 2025 
SUBJECT:
CalHome Housing Rehabilitation Loan Program Administration – Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with Rebuilding Together Peninsula (RTP) in the amount of $140,000 to provide program 
administration services for the City’s housing rehabilitation loan program funded by the State of California CalHome grant 
program. 
BACKGROUND:
Housing Rehabilitation Loan Program
From 1975 to 2012, the City operated an active housing rehabilitation loan program (Program), with over 630 loans funded 
by federal Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) 
and, in later years, from a State of California CalHome (CalHome) grant. During this period, loans were annually reviewed 
and approved by a Loan Committee comprised of community members representing real estate and lending groups. 
Despite the Program’s success, it was discontinued in 2012 due to reduced federal grant funds awarded to the City, staff 
reductions, and difficulty in locating eligible low-income homeowners willing to obtain loans secured against their 
property. The Loan Committee met for a final time in July 2012, and program funds from CDBG were redirected to benefit 
the City’s community-based projects. 
 
CalHome Home Rehabilitation Loan Program
While federal grant funds were redirected to other City projects, the City continued to fund a housing rehabilitation loan 
program through CalHome. The CalHome loan fund was nearly depleted in 2012, but over time, the fund has been 
gradually replenished through loan repayments by borrowers to the City, in varied amounts each year. In 2019, the City 
released a Request for Proposals (RFP) to select a qualified organization to provide administration of an updated CalHome 
Home Rehabilitation Loan Program (CalHome Loan Program).
Rebuilding Together Peninsula (RTP) was selected through this RFP process, and on March 1, 2020, the City entered into an 
administrative agreement (Agreement) with RTP to administer the CalHome Loan Program. The Agreement was renewed 
by the City on July 1, 2021 to extend RTP’s contract performance until June 30, 2023. In partnership with RTP, the City 
successfully provided CalHome Loan Program assistance to three City residents, despite countervailing factors such as the 
Covid pandemic disruptions to labor and construction supply chains, staff turnover, the challenge of establishing new 
administrative processes to review and approve loans in the place of the previous Loan Committee, and timely 
reimbursement of contractors during staffing shortages. There are currently two additional loan applications in the 
pipeline with RTP, and possibly more.
The City’s Agreement with RTP is expired, and the City is seeking to establish a new agreement (New Agreement) with RTP 
6 of 426

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
to continue its work in administrating the City’s CalHome Loan Program. 
New Agreement with Rebuilding Together Peninsula
In this New Agreement with RTP, the City seeks to fine-tune the administration of the CalHome Loan Program based on 
experience from the past three years. Specifically, the New Agreement strengthens RTP’s role as project manager, 
leveraging RTP’s expertise in home repair and construction work coordination and aiming to reduce the burden on low-
income homeowners, who may lack the resources to manage repair projects with contractors. 
RTP is well-positioned to act as project manager for CalHome projects, as the organization performs similar work for its 
other programs, such as Safe at Home, National Rebuilding Day, and Unleaded Homes San Mateo County.  As under the 
prior Agreement, RTP will collect contractor bids, work with the homeowner to select contractors, and review contractor 
work.  Additionally, the New Agreement shifts responsibility to RTP to directly pay contactor invoices, rather than the City, 
and to invoice the City for reimbursement. The New Agreement also directs RTP to affirmatively market the City’s program 
to bring it in line with the City’s Housing Element preservation policies and programs.
The City’s responsibilities remain focused on overall CalHome Loan Program oversight, loan application processing, loan 
underwriting, and loan servicing of approximately $500,000 in funds to be awarded to low-income San Mateo residents 
with home rehabilitation needs, with a maximum loan amount of $60,000. 
Under the agreement, RTP would be paid for services rendered in an amount not to exceed $140,000. The term of this 
agreement with RTP is for the period to begin on February 1, 2025 and to end on June 30, 2027.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no impact to the General Fund from this Agreement, as CalHome is a revolving loan program that is funded 
through loan repayments into a reuse CIP account (Fund 590).
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement with Rebuilding Together Peninsula
STAFF CONTACT
Van Diggans, Housing Specialist II
vdiggans@cityofsanmateo.org
7 of 426

--- page 8 ---
Contract for Services
Page 1 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
 AGREEMENT WITH REBUILDING TOGETHER PENINSULA
FOR PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION SERVICES
FOR 
CALHOME HOUSING REHABILITATION LOAN PROGRAM
This Agreement is entered into this day of _______ (the “Effective Date”) by and between the 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
("CITY"), and REBUILDING TOGETHER PENINSULA, a California nonprofit corporation ("RTP," and 
together with CITY, the “Parties”), whose address is 841 Kaynyne Street, Redwood City, CA , 94063. 
RECITALS:
A.
CITY wishes to provide certain services for low-income San Mateo homeowners by 
leveraging funding from the State of California in connection with a CalHome Housing Rehabilitation 
Program (the “Program”), which is described more fully in Exhibit A to this Agreement. The Parties 
contemplate that the Program will involve administering a loan pool of approximately $500,000 with a 
maximum loan amount for an eligible homeowner of $60,000 in order to help homeowners provide 
safety and improvement repairs to their homes.
B. 
RTP is a non-profit organization that is active in San Mateo with a mission to help 
provide renovation and repair services for the Peninsula’s most vulnerable homeowners, and as a 
consequence, has expertise in helping homeowners navigate complicated permitting processes and 
manage construction projects.  
C.
CITY desires to engage RTP to provide program administration services for its CalHome 
Housing Rehabilitation Program, including vetting potential applicants, conducting biannual marketing 
and outreach (including translating flyers), helping homeowners navigate the bidding process, and 
facilitating inspections, among other administrative tasks, by reason of its qualifications and experience 
for performing such services.
D.         CITY wishes to continue engaging RTP to provide these services and, in addition, to act 
as project manager for CalHome Housing Rehabilitation Program projects. RTP has offered to provide 
the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth below. For the avoidance of doubt, RTP 
is only being engaged in order to provide program services to CITY and will not be a party to any 
separate loan agreements, construction contracts, or other agreements that may be entered into in 
the future by CITY and specific homeowners seeking assistance under the CalHome Housing 
Rehabilitation Program. 
8 of 426

--- page 9 ---
Contract for Services
Page 2 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES
.
The scope of services to be performed by RTP under this Agreement is as described in Exhibit A 
to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference (the “Work”).
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR
RTP shall be responsible for performing the Work as more fully described in Exhibit A. RTP shall 
not be responsible for the professional quality or technical accuracy of the services to be performed by 
any contractors engaged by homeowners to perform actual construction work, but only for 
coordination of the Work described in Exhibit A.  RTP shall, however, without additional compensation, 
be solely responsible for correcting or revising any errors or deficiencies in the Work for which CITY 
shall provide RTP prompt written notice with reasonable details of the errors or deficiencies.
RTP represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this Agreement.
RTP shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform the 
services of RTP as described in Exhibit A; for the avoidance of doubt, RTP shall have no liability for the 
performance or non-performance of any contractors selected to perform services for homeowners.
RTP agrees to comply with  CITY’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal Code 
Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price Index 
escalator.
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall promptly provide all information requested by RTP that is reasonably necessary for 
performing the Work. 
CITY shall work in good faith to promptly review any documentation or requests submitted by 
RTP and shall render decisions pertaining thereto promptly, in order to avoid unreasonable delay in the 
progress of the RTP'S work. 
CITY shall also be responsible for facilitating the Work as more fully described in Exhibit A, 
including but not limited to ensuring that properly submitted invoices from RTP are paid promptly, 
providing legal oversight of the Program, drafting loan documents determining applicant eligibility, and 
any other activities that are not expressly the responsibility of RTP. 
9 of 426

--- page 10 ---
Contract for Services
Page 3 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
SECTION 4 - TERM
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on February 1, 2025 and 
be completed on June 30, 2027, unless this Agreement is terminated earlier in accordance with Section 
6, below. 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT
Payment to RTP for services performed under this Agreement shall be made by CITY only for 
services rendered and upon submission of payment request as follows: RTP shall invoice  CITY at a 
minimum, on a quarterly basis, for administrative costs and payments made to contractors or 
subcontractors by RTP for CalHome Housing Rehabilitation Program projects that CITY has previously 
approved.  In consideration for the full performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to 
pay RTP administrative fees in an amount not to exceed $140,000.00, pursuant to the rates stated in 
Exhibit A, attached and incorporated by reference.
RTP shall provide an invoice for each request for payment, which shall specify the services 
rendered.  RTP shall maintain receipts related to reimbursable expenses (if any) for three (3) years.
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY or RTP may otherwise have by law, either 
Party shall have the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Program for any reason, 
upon ten (10) days' written notice to the other Party.  If CITY provides written notice to RTP indicating 
its desire to terminate or suspend the Program, RTP agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice, and CITY agrees that RTP shall be compensated for all services performed 
up until the date such written notice is provided according to the rates set forth in Exhibit A. 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
All documents prepared by RTP in connection with the performance of the Work under this 
Agreement are and shall be the property of CITY.
SECTION 8 - INTEREST OF RTP
RTP covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, direct or 
indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the performance of 
the Work under this Agreement.
10 of 426

--- page 11 ---
Contract for Services
Page 4 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
SECTION 9 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the Work required under this Agreement, RTP 
shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code Section 3353, 
under control of CITY as to the result of the work, but not the means by which the result is 
accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make RTP an agent or employee of CITY while 
providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 10 - LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
RTP agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, 
and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of RPT’s 
performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole negligence or willful 
misconduct.  RTP agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents 
against any such claims. RTP shall not be liable for any indirect, consequential, incidental, special or 
exemplary damages arising out of or related to this agreement, regardless of the legal theory on which 
any such damages may be based and even if RTP has been advised of the possibility of such damages.
SECTION 11 - INSURANCE
RTP shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified in 
Exhibit B to this Agreement.
SECTION 12 - NONASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the professional services of RTP and 
cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by RTP without the prior written consent of CITY, 
which shall not be unreasonably withheld.
SECTION 13 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF RTP
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that RTP is skilled in 
the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies upon the 
skill of RTP to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and RTP agrees to thus perform the 
work.  The acceptance of RTP's work by CITY does not operate as a release of RTP from said obligation.
11 of 426

--- page 12 ---
Contract for Services
Page 5 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
SECTION 14 - WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the 
same or of any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of 
any fee or other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any 
preceding breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement 
or of any applicable law or ordinance.
SECTION 15 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5,000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5,000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 16 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
The RTP warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with applicable 
regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither RTP nor any of its contractors shall 
discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national origin, ancestry, physical 
handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a bona fide occupational 
qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
SECTION 17 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
12 of 426

--- page 13 ---
Contract for Services
Page 6 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
SECTION 18 - LITIGATION
RTP shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection with RTP's 
services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by RTP, or is based upon RTP's 
wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate RTP for preparation for testimony, testimony, and travel at RTP's 
standard hourly rates at the time of actual testimony.
SECTION 19 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Rachel Horst, Housing Manager
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA, 94403
To RTP:
Rebuilding Together Peninsula
Attn:  Melissa Lukin, Executive Director
841 Kaynyne Street
Redwood City, CA 94063
SECTION 20 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and RTP and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and RTP.
SECTION 21- GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
13 of 426

--- page 14 ---
Contract for Services
Page 7 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Rebuilding Together Peninsula have executed 
this Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Rebuilding Together Peninsula
Zachary Dahl 
Community Development Director
Melissa Lukin
Its Authorized Agent
Executive Director
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Mazarin Vakharia
Assistant City Attorney
Exhibits:
Exhibit A
Scope of Services and Payment Rates
Exhibit B
CalHome Program Guidelines
Exhibit C
CalHome Program Gross Income Worksheet
Exhibit D
Draw Schedule and Construction Payment Request
Exhibit E
Insurance Requirements
14 of 426

--- page 15 ---
Contract for Services
Page 8 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES and PAYMENT RATES
CITY wishes to provide a single-family CalHome Housing Rehabilitation Loan program for low-income 
San Mateo City homeowners.
The source of City funds is the State of California’s CalHome Program, administered by the California 
Dept. of Housing and Community Development. 
During the term of the agreement, Rebuilding Together Peninsula (”RTP”) will help administer CITY’s 
CalHome Housing Rehabilitation Loan Program. It is estimated that a loan pool of $500,000 will be 
available for eligible low-income homeowners.  The maximum loan amount shall be $60,000.  It is 
anticipated that approximately 10 homeowners will be served from this initial loan pool.  
In general, RTP will conduct marketing and outreach, client intake, identify the scope of repair work to 
be performed by the homeowner, and manage the project, including inspections and payments to 
contractors.
In general, City will provide loan funds, determine applicant eligibility, draft loan documents, and 
manage its loan portfolio, including payments and payoffs, and lead program marketing and outreach. 
Marketing efforts by RTP includes but is not limited to translating flyers and distributing information in 
various locations throughout CITY, including libraries, senior and community centers, and non-profit 
agencies. Outreach will be conducted biannually.
I.
WORKFLOW
In general, each project will consist of the following steps:
A. Homeowner applies to RTP.
B. RTP collects income documentation, performs due diligence, and completes a preliminary 
assessment of the property.
C. CITY conducts site visit with RTP.
D. RTP uploads homeowner information to Neighborly website.
E. RTP collects contractor bids for any work to be performed.
F. RTP works with homeowner to select which contractor to work with.
G. CITY reviews income documentation, completes due diligence, and approves eligibility package.
H. CITY confirms loan amount and prepares loan documents.
I. RTP meets with homeowner for pre-construction survey and consultation.
J. Contractor(s) complete work.
K. Contractor(s) submit invoices to RTP for review and homeowner approval, and payment by RTP.
L. RTP, CITY, and homeowner complete final review of work.
M. RTP sends quarterly invoices to CITY for reimbursement of contractor invoices and administrative 
services.
15 of 426

--- page 16 ---
Contract for Services
Page 9 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
N. CITY and RTP will engage in quarterly meetings and keep records in a shared platform to track 
CalHome projects. City and RPT will use Neighborly, a loan software, to track payments. If use of 
Neighborly is discontinued or does not serve the full needs of the CalHome Housing Rehabilitation 
Program, CITY and RTP will develop alternative means to maintain shared records.
II.
ACTIVITY DELIVERY FEE – NEW PROJECTS
RTP’S Activity Delivery Fee for new projects will consist of a base fee of $3,690 per home 
plus $1,476 per set of needed contractor bids (i.e., for each individual loan). 
For the base fee, RTP will perform at least five site visits to the home:
A. Preliminary Assessment
B. Site Visit including CITY Staff Review
C. Bid Review and Selection Meeting
D. Pre-Construction Site Visit
E. Post-Construction Site Visit 
The base fee includes services that are customary and usual for management of home rehabilitation 
projects of this size. For example, writing the scope of work and completing other required paperwork; 
tracking data; phone calls and emails with the homeowner, contractors and CITY staff; processing 
contractor invoices; and providing status reports to the City of San Mateo. 
In addition to the base fee, RTP will charge CITY $1,476 per each set of contractor bids necessary. RTP 
estimates that the typical home will need at least two types of contractor work (e.g. HVAC, roofing, 
sewer, electrical, internal plumbing), with each type of work requiring at least three bids (unless the 
amount for such bids is sufficiently modest, to be determined in RTP’s reasonable discretion, to 
warrant procuring less than three bids). For example, if RTP helps a homeowner to procure, review, 
and select bids for a new HVAC system and new electrical work, then RTP would be entitled to $2,952 
in compensation ($1,476 multiplied by two, since there are two sets of bids). 
If the property requires a termite inspection, RTP may pay for the inspection fee up front on behalf of 
the homeowner and seek reimbursement from CITY prior to requesting the Activity Delivery Fee. RTP 
shall utilize County of San Mateo Lead Abatement Program lead inspection or abatement is required; 
this amount shall not be deducted from the loan amount. City shall reimburse RTP even if the loan 
does not get approved.  Other specialty inspection fees may also be reimbursed if approved by City 
ahead of time.
III.
ACTIVITY DELIVERY FEE SCHEDULE PER HOME SERVED:
Task
Description
New Project  
Base fee
Five site visits and administrative 
services (preparation, reporting, 
coordination, communication) to 
$3,690
16 of 426

--- page 17 ---
Contract for Services
Page 10 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
support the contract.
Construction 
Project 
Management
Securing bids and coordinating 
between homeowner and contractor  
$1,476
(per set)
Project 
Management 
Fee
Processing payments to contractors; 
seeking reimbursement from City
3% of loan amount 
(not to exceed $1,800 
per loan)
Activity delivery fee per home with one 
contractor:
$5,166
Total:
Hourly rate if homeowner needs 
additional contractor bids. 
$123 per hour
not to exceed $1,476
IV.
FISCAL AND OTHER RESPONSIBILITIES OF RTP:  
A. RTP and City shall comply with all applicable State Regulations, particularly the provisions of 
the CalHome Program, Title 25 California Code of Regulations, Division 1, Chapter 7, 
Subchapter 9, Commencing with section 7715. 
B. RTP shall document all costs by maintaining complete and accurate records of all financial 
transactions, including, but not limited to contracts, invoices, time cards, cash and charge 
receipts, vouchers, cancelled checks, bank statements and/or other official documentation 
evidencing in proper detail the nature and propriety of all transactions.
C. Independent Audits:  RTP must perform an independent fiscal audit once a year, in 
conformance with the generally accepted standard accounting principles.  For the 
avoidance of doubt, the fiscal audit required by this section can be satisfied by RTP’s usual 
annual audit and does not need to be specific to the Program or services provided to CITY. 
Such audits must identify the total funds received and disbursed as well as funds granted 
and expended.  The costs for such audits shall be at RTP’s expense, unless otherwise 
provided for in this Agreement.  RTP’s Board of Directors must provide copies of the 
completed audits to CITY within thirty (30) days of their completion and acceptance by 
RTP’s Board of Directors.
D.   Activities described in this agreement must be carried out in compliance with the following 
City of San Mateo regulations:
1) City of San Mateo – CalHome Housing Rehabilitation Program Guidelines (Exhibit B)
V.
RECORDS, REPORTS AND AUDITS OF ORGANIZATION:
A. Establishment and Maintenance of Records: RTP shall maintain records, including but not 
limited to books, financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, personnel, 
17 of 426

--- page 18 ---
Contract for Services
Page 11 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
property, and all other pertinent records sufficient to reflect properly (1) all direct and 
indirect costs of whatever nature claimed to have been incurred and anticipated to be 
incurred to perform this Agreement, and (2) all other matters covered by this Agreement.
B. Preservation of Records: RTP shall reserve and make available its records:
1) Until the expiration of three (3) years from the date of the submission of the 
Program Report described below in Section VI.C.
2) For such longer period, if any, as is required by applicable law; or
3) If the Agreement is completely or partially terminated the records relating to the 
work terminated shall be preserved and made available for a period of three (3) 
years from the date of any resulting final settlement.
C. Program Report: RTP shall provide a quarterly written Program Report to CITY detailing 
progress made toward the provision of services as described above.  Reports are due by 
the 15th of the month following the end of each quarter. RTP shall include an Annual 
Report in addition to the final quarterly report.
a.  Contents of Quarterly Reports shall contain information that includes but is not 
limited to: description of current status of program activity, including number of 
units assisted, number of households served and demographic information; and 
description of problems or delays encountered in program implementation and 
course of action taken to address them.
b. Contents of the Annual Report shall contain information that includes but is not 
limited to: number of rehabilitation projects completed; number of rehabilitation 
projects in progress; amount of CalHome program funds spent in the last fiscal 
year.
18 of 426

--- page 19 ---
Contract for Services
Page 12 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
EXHIBIT B
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
CALHOME HOUSING REHABILITATION GUIDELINES
GENERAL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Conflict of Interest
No member of the governing body of the locality and no other official, employee, or agent of CITY 
government who exercises policy, decision-making functions, or responsibilities in connection with the 
planning and implementation of the program shall directly or indirectly be eligible for this program, 
unless the application for assistance has been reviewed and approved according to applicable 
California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) guidelines.  This ineligibility 
shall continue for one year after an individual's relationship with CITY ends.
A contractor with a vested interest in the property cannot bid on a rehabilitation job.  Such a 
contractor may act as owner/builder, subject to Section V. Construction Standards. (Owner/builders 
are reimbursed for materials purchased which are verified by invoice/receipt and used on the job.  
Reimbursement occurs after the installation is verified by the Construction Supervisor to be part of the 
scope of work. Owner/builders are not reimbursed for labor.)
Fair Housing
CITY is an equal opportunity, fair housing lender and makes all programs available to low income 
families regardless of age, race, color, religion, sex, national origin, sexual preference, marital status or 
handicap.
Applicant Eligibility
Residency Requirements
Units to be rehabilitated must be the principal residence of the owner.  (Owner Occupied). Each 
homeowner must be named on the property’s title evidenced by a preliminary title search of the 
property address. Each homeowner must sign all program and loan documents.
Continued residency is monitored between April 1st and the 30th of each year for the term of the loan.  
Occupancy will be verified by the submission of the following:
(a)
Proof of occupancy in the form of a copy of a current utility bill; and
(b)
Statement of unit's continued use as primary residence of the owner using the City of San 
Mateo’s “Form of Owner Occupancy Certification”.
19 of 426

--- page 20 ---
Contract for Services
Page 13 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
The CalHome loan is not assumable. (See Loan Servicing Policies and Procedures (LSPP)
Conversion to a use other than residential is not allowable where the full use of the property is 
changed from residential to commercial or other.
Household Eligibility
A household is defined in terms of financial relationships and can include any owner partnerships as 
long as their combined gross, annual income meets the eligibility guidelines. To be considered a 
member of a household, a person must either be (1) on title or (2) claimed as a dependent on the tax 
returns of a household member who will appear on the title and loan for the CalHome loan.
Household Income
All sources from which the borrower(s), and any other person over 18 years of age who is expected to 
live in the residence, receive income including the monthly gross pay, and additional income from 
overtime, part-time employment, bonuses, commissions, tips, dividends, interest royalties, pensions, 
Veteran’s Admin compensation, net rental income or other income (such as alimony, child support, 
public assistance, sick pay, social security benefits unemployment compensation, income received 
from trusts, and income received from business activities or investments).
If one or more bedrooms of an owner occupied single-family property is/are rented to non-household 
members, the non-household member’s income shall not be included in income calculations for the 
owners household. However, the rent paid to the owner shall be included in income calculations for 
the owner’s household.
Gross Income
The annual gross income, of the Homeowner’s household income adjusted for family size, may not 
exceed the program limits. Determination of the Homeowner annual household income will be based 
on income projected for twelve (12) months. Please refer to Appendix 1; CalHome Program Gross 
Income Worksheet.
1. Maximum Income Limits: The household income of any Borrower cannot exceed 80% of the 
HCD low income Limits as published by the California Department of Housing and Community 
Development (HCD) adjusted for household size. For purposes of determining the household 
income, the income of all persons 18 years and older who will reside in the property will be 
considered as part of the total income used to determine eligibility within the established 
limits. 
2. Gross Income Includes: All sources of income from which the Borrower and any other person 
over 18 years of age who is expected to live in the residence. Gross income from wages, 
20 of 426

--- page 21 ---
Contract for Services
Page 14 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
salaries; any additional income from overtime, part-time employment, bonuses, commissions, 
tips, dividends, interest or dividends earned on assets, royalties, annuities, insurance policies, 
retirement funds, pensions, disability or death benefits, Veteran’s Administration (VA) 
compensation, net rental income or other income (such as alimony, child support, public 
assistance, sick pay, social security benefits, unemployment compensation, income received 
from trusts, and income received from business activities or investments). 
3. Income Determination: The gross income of the household (as defined by CCRs Title 25 Section 
6914) promulgated by the Internal Revenue Service is the household’s annualized gross income. 
Gross income shall mean the anticipated income of a borrower or family member for the 
twelve-month period following the date of determination of income. If the circumstances are 
such that it is not reasonably feasible to anticipate a level of income over a twelve-month 
period, a shorter period may be used subject to a re-determination at the end of such a period. 
"Income" shall consist of the following: (a) Except as provided in subdivision (b), all payments 
from all sources received by the family head (even if temporarily absent) and each additional 
member of the family household who is not a minor shall be included in the annual income of a 
family. Income shall include, but not be limited to: 
a) The gross amount, before any payroll deductions, of wages and salaries, overtime pay, 
commissions, fees, tips and bonuses; 
b) The net income from operation of a business or profession or from rental of real or personal 
property (for this purpose, expenditures for business expansion or amortization of capital 
indebtedness shall not be deducted to determine the net income from a business); 
c) Interest and dividends; 
d) The full amount of periodic payments received from social security, annuities, insurance 
policies, retirement funds, pensions, disability or death benefits and other similar types of 
periodic receipts;
e) Payments in lieu of earnings, such as unemployment and disability compensation, worker's 
compensation and severance pay (but see subdivision (b)(3)). 
 
f)
Periodic and determinable allowances such as alimony and child support payments, and 
regular contributions or gifts received from persons not residing in the dwelling; 
g) All regular pay, special pay and allowances of a member of the Armed Forces (whether or 
not living in the dwelling) who is head of the family or spouse. 
The calculation of income based on the gross income on each applicant’s past three pay stubs. 
Each household member’s income is derived by dividing the year-to-date gross income by the 
person’s current pay period and then by annualizing an estimated pay period amount by the 
number of times the person is paid in one year. Calculations such as part-time employment 
21 of 426

--- page 22 ---
Contract for Services
Page 15 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
with variable hours (or less than 40 hours per week), inconsistent income or hours, overtime, 
bonuses and commissions, etc., can be calculated using year-to-date income to project the 
annual income. 
YTD gross income/current pay period x number of paid a year = Annualized gross income 
Example: 
Year-to-date income is $20,000 as of the 10th pay period of the year 
Estimated pay period amount = $20,000 divided by 10 = $2,000 
Total number of pay periods in year for applicant is 24 
Annualized pay = $2,000 x 24 = $48,000 
A self-employed Borrower can also be considered to have income, which varies from month to 
month. The borrower's gross annual income calculations will be based on the net income 
before taxes from the Borrower’s signed, quarterly Profit and Loss Statement. This amount will 
be divided by the appropriate number of months covered by the Profit and Loss Statement to 
derive at a monthly income amount. The monthly income amount will be multiplied by 12 to 
derive the annual income. 
Self-employed Borrower must provide: 
• Self-employed Affidavit. 
• All Profit and Loss statements from the past 3 years. 
• A Profit and Loss statement for the current year. 
• Copies of all invoices and payments made to the applicant as a part of self-employment in the 
current calendar year. 
Example: 
Year-to-date net income is $32,000 for 5 months on the P/L Statement 
Estimated Income amount = $32,000 divided by 5 = $6,400 
Total number of the year is 12 months 
Annualized Income = $6,400 x 12 = $76,800 
 
h) Borrower or Co-Borrower not employed or not receiving any income must provide an 
Unemployment Affidavit that is signed and notarized. The Unemployment Affidavit (Appendix 
3) must be used in the event that the applicant is not able to provide the City of San Mateo 
Housing Department with pay stubs or other documentation of regular income.
Underwriting 
Once staff has verified the property is owner occupied, the number of eligible persons, and 
income eligibility, a credit report issued by a responsible reporting agency, will be used to verify 
expense information on the loan application. Staff will cross check the credit report with the 
22 of 426

--- page 23 ---
Contract for Services
Page 16 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
preliminary title report to verify any derogatory public records and review the credit report for 
timeliness of past obligations such as mortgage payments, and other consumer credit lines.
Property Eligibility
Units to be rehabilitated must be located within the City of San Mateo city limits.
Property must contain a legal residential structure intended for continued residential occupancy.
Units that have code deficiencies must be corrected in order to qualify for loan funds.  Repairs must 
address all health and safety hazards existing in the unit as determined by the agent’s construction 
supervisor and/or the City Building Department.  CITY will determine the rehabilitation work to be 
performed on the property based on the outcome of the construction supervisor’s initial property 
inspection.
Single family housing and multi-family housing up to 4 units is/are allowable.
Eligible improvements include:
a) Code violations
b) Termite (scope of work limited to areas to be repaired)
c) Deferred maintenance if required by city ordinance or health and safety code.
d) Major system updates
e) Handicapped/disability modifications
f)
General property improvements (no more than 25% of property). Not applicable unless it 
relates to health and safety or code compliance.
g) Lead-based paint hazard reduction work.
h) Energy and water conservation.
i)
New construction is prohibited unless used to relieve overcrowding. 
Construction Standards
All repair work must meet California Building Code standards.   
Contracting Process:
a) Contracting will be done on a competitive basis.
b) The homeowner will be the responsible agent, but CITY and/or its agent will prepare the 
work write-up, prepare and advertise the bid package, and assist the owner in negotiating 
the construction contract.
c) The City does not warrant any construction work or provide insurance coverage.
23 of 426

--- page 24 ---
Contract for Services
Page 17 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
  Approved Contractors:
a) Contractors are required to be licensed with the State of California and be active and in 
good standing with the Contractors’ License Board.
b) Contractors will be checked against HUD’s federally debarred list of contractors. No award 
will be granted to a contractor on this list.
c) Contractors must have liability and property damage insurance, worker’s compensation, 
and employer liability insurance to the extent required by State Law. 
d) Contractor must agree to comply with all CalHome regulations.
e) The homeowner may be allowed to do his own work if he has a valid California Contractor’s 
license.
Eligible Rehabilitation Costs
Cost of rehabilitation of the property in accordance with the following definition:  “Rehabilitation” 
means, in addition to the definition in Section 50096 of the Health and Safety Code, repairs and 
improvements to a home necessary to correct any condition causing the home to be substandard 
pursuant to Section 1704 of Title 25, California Code of Regulations.  Rehabilitation also means repairs 
and improvements where necessary to meet any locally-adopted standards used in local rehabilitation 
programs.  Rehabilitation does not include replacement of personal property.
Cost of building permits and other related government fees.
Cost of architectural, engineering, and other consultant services which are directly related to the 
rehabilitation of the property.
Non-recurring loan closing costs.
Owner-occupied rehabilitation activity delivery fees, pursuant to Section 7733(f), as reimbursement to 
CITY for the actual costs of services rendered to the homeowner that are incidentally but directly 
related to the rehabilitation work (e.g. planning, engineering, construction management, including 
inspections and work write-ups).
Owner-occupants are not eligible for temporary relocation unless health and safety threats are 
determined to exist by the agent/construction supervisor.  In cases where relocation is determined to 
be necessary by the agent/construction supervisor, any assistance is to comply with California 
Government Code Section 7260 et seq. and regulations found in California Code of Regulations, Title 
25, Chapter 6. Relocation costs shall be included in the loan (not a separate grant).
CalHome Activity Delivery Fees
24 of 426

--- page 25 ---
Contract for Services
Page 18 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
CITY staff member responsible for the processing and underwriting of CalHome project funding will be 
responsible for documenting incurred costs using the “CalHome Program OOR-4, Activity Delivery Fee 
Reimbursement Form”. 
FINANCING
The amount of CalHome assistance provided to a project is determined by the process of evaluating 
the available equity of the property, initial inspection, development of the work write-up and cost 
estimate, analysis of the contractor bids received, followed by comparison of the bids to the cost 
estimate to determine cost reasonableness.  
Limits: 
a) An eligible owner may qualify for the full cost of rehabilitation work needed to comply with 
California Building Code standards.  Maximum assistance with CalHome funds is $60,000.00 
for rehabilitation and/or reconstruction. 
b) The loan-to-value ratio for an owner-occupied rehabilitation loan, when combined with all 
other indebtedness secured by the property, shall not exceed 105 percent of the estimated 
after-rehabilitation value.  An estimate of after-rehab value will be made prior to making a 
commitment of CalHome funds using San Mateo County Association of Realtors “Sales Stat 
Records”. Staff will refer to both monthly and quarterly median values for the county to 
makes its assessment. 
c) Total value of the unit after rehabilitation shall not exceed 100% of the current median sales 
price of a single family home in San Mateo County. Sales Price/Value limits will be according 
to San Mateo County Association of Realtors “Sales Stat Reports” for median home prices, 
or by an individual appraisal performed by a licensed appraiser. 
Types of Financing and Terms:
a) Each applicant who is determined to be eligible for the CalHome program will receive 
Deferred Payment Loans (DPL) financing.
b) Deferred Payment Loans – Twenty-year, 3% interest bearing loan, secured by a deed of 
trust, with no payback required until the end of the 20 year term, participant sells or 
transfers title, or discontinues their residence in the dwelling.  Payments may be made 
voluntarily on a DPL at any time within the term of the loan.  There are no pre-payment 
penalties on loans issued by the City of San Mateo. Loan principal will not be forgiven.
c) Loans shall be repayable upon sale or transfer of the property, when the property ceases to 
be owner-occupied; or upon the CalHome Program loan maturity date.  However, if it is 
determined by CITY that repayment of the CalHome Program loan at the maturity date 
causes a hardship to the borrower, CITY may opt to do one of the following:
1. Amend the note and deed of trust one time only to defer repayment of the amount 
due at maturity, that is balance of the original principal plus the accrued interest, for 
up to an additional 30 years (at 0% additional interest) this may be offered one time;
25 of 426

--- page 26 ---
Contract for Services
Page 19 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
2. Convert the debt at loan maturity; (balance of the original principal plus any accrued 
interest) to an amortized loan, repayable in 15 years at 0% additional interest. 
d) Any cash out of escrow to the homeowner is prohibited.
e) No financing, junior or senior to the CalHome loan, will have a balloon payment due before 
the maturity date of the CalHome loan.
f)   Only after all loan documentation has been processed and recording has taken place, will 
the loan proceeds be available to the borrower.
LOAN SECURITY
Loan security for all owner-occupied rehabilitation stick-built homes will be secured by the real 
property and improvements, and will include a Deed of Trust, and Promissory Note in favor of CITY.  
Entering a subordinate lien is acceptable.  However, CITY will not subordinate a first lien position once 
established. 
INSURANCE & PROPERTY TAXES
See Loan Servicing Policies and Procedures.
LOAN APPROVAL
The City of San Mateo Loan Committee must approve all loans. The Loan Committee may approve 
assistance in excess of the maximum loan limits with financing up to 105 percent of after rehabilitation 
value as needed, in cases where no other financial resources are available to cover the cost of the 
improvements and where clear and convincing documentation exists, justifying why the exception is 
needed.  
In order to obtain CalHome financing, applicants must meet all property and eligibility guidelines in 
effect at the time the application is considered.  Applicants will be provided written notification of 
approval or denial.  Any reason for denial will be provided to the applicant in writing.
DEFAULT AND FORECLOSURE
If an owner defaults on a loan, and foreclosure procedures are instituted, they shall be carried out 
according to the Loan Servicing Policies and Procedures). 
COMPLAINT AND APPEAL PROCEDURE
Complaints concerning the CalHome Housing Rehabilitation Loan Program should be made first to 
CITY’s contract agent.  If the problem remains unresolved, the complaint or appeal should be made in 
26 of 426

--- page 27 ---
Contract for Services
Page 20 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
writing and filed with the City Manager of the City of San Mateo. 
AMENDMENTS
CITY may make amendments to these Participation Guidelines.  Any changes made shall be in 
accordance with CalHome regulations.
EXCEPTIONS
Exceptions to these Participation Guidelines will require approval of the Housing Manager. 
27 of 426

--- page 28 ---
Contract for Services
Page 21 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
EXHIBIT C
 CalHome Program Gross Income Worksheet
ASSETS
Household Member
Assets Description
Current Value
Actual Income 
from Assets (Annualized)
1.  Totals
 1(a)
1(b)
2.  If line 1(a) is $5,000 or less, enter 0 here and in line 6(d) below.
     Income from assets of $5,000 or less is not included in the 
     determination of income eligibility.
2.
3.  If line 1(a) is greater than $5,000:
(a)  multiply line 1(a) by 2.0% and enter results here
3(a)
(b)  enter amount from line 1(b)
3(b)
(c)  Enter the greater of lines 3(a) or 3(b) here and inline 6(d) below.
3(c)
ANTICIPATED ANNUAL INCOME 
Household Member
a.
Wages/
Salaries
b.
Benefits/
Pensions
c.
Other 
Income
d.
Asset 
Income
6. Totals
a.
b. 
c.
d. 
7.  Enter total of items from 6a.through 6d.  (Total Income)                          7. 
Completed and Reviewed by:  ______________________   Date: _________
28 of 426

--- page 29 ---
Contract for Services
Page 22 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
EXHIBIT D
DRAW SCHEDULE AND CONSTRUCTION PAYMENT REQUEST
Draw Schedule
Company 
Name
 
Project 
Name
 
Phone 
Number
 
Project 
Address
 
Email
 
Contract 
Price
 
Draw No.
Est. 
Completion 
Date
Percentage
Amount
Description of 
Work
 
Status
1
 
 
$0
 
 
2
 
 
$0
 
 
3
 
 
$0
 
 
4
 
 
$0
 
 
5
 
 
$0
 
 
6
 
 
$0
 
 
7
 
 
$0
 
 
8
 
 
$0
 
 
9
 
 
$0
 
 
10
 
 
$0
 
 
Final
 
0%
$0
 
 
29 of 426

--- page 30 ---
Contract for Services
Page 23 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
Date:
Payment #
Owner:
Property:
SUMMARY OF FUNDS 
Loan  Amount
Inspections/Fees:
Title Insurance
Termite
Other
Other
Other
Construction  Funds 
TRANSACTIONS
Beginning Total Contracts
List Contractor/Material Provider NamesContract Amt.
This Trans.
Prior Trans.
Job to Date
Termite Contractor
$0.00
Roofer Name
$0.00
Gutter Contractor
$0.00
Heater Contractor
$0.00
Drainage pump Contracor
$0.00
Drainage pipe Contractor
$0.00
Plumber Name
$0.00
$0.00
Contingency
$0.00
Total Transactions
$0.00
Balance 
$0.00
Notes: 
Date
Owner's Signature
I certify that I have checked this property and verify that the value of work performed warrants this payment request to be honored.
Date
Project Manager
The undersigned Owner authorizes this payment for work performed on the above property and certifies that the value of work stated in 
the attached invoice has been essentially completed as  of this date.  All relevant permits and building inspections have been obtained.
30 of 426

--- page 31 ---
Contract for Services
Page 24 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
EXHIBIT E
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if the RTP has 
no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease. 
If RTP maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, CITY requires and shall be entitled to 
coverage for the higher limits maintained by RPT.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on the 
auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of 
RTP; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or 
on behalf of RTP including materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work or 
operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement RPT’s insurance 
(at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions 
used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, RPT’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance as 
respects CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be excess 
of the RPT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to CITY.
31 of 426

--- page 32 ---
Contract for Services
Page 25 of 27
Rev Dec. 2024
Waiver of Subrogation
RTP hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of RTP may acquire 
against CITY by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  RTP agrees to obtain any 
endorsement that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies 
regardless of whether or not CITY has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer.  
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by CITY. CITY may require 
RTP to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of ability to pay losses 
and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the retention.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to  CITY.
Verification of Coverage
RTP shall furnish CITY with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of the 
applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by CITY before work commences.  However, failure to 
obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive RPT’s obligation to provide 
them.   CITY reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, 
including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
32 of 426

--- page 33 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 24-9463
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 21, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Digester 2 Cleaning — Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution approving an alternative purchasing procedure to award an Agreement to Bristola, LLC for Wastewater 
Treatment Plant Digester 2 Cleaning services in the amount of $364,100, with a contingency in the amount of $36,000; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and approve change 
orders within the approved contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
The Clean Water Program (CWP) includes several capital improvement projects intended to upgrade or rehabilitate aging 
infrastructure in the City’s sewer collection system and Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) to maintain plant 
operations, minimize service disruptions and safeguard public health. As part of the CWP, the WWTP Annual Major 
Components Project captures several repairs, rehabilitations, and efforts required to keep the portions of the existing 
WWTP that will remain after commissioning the new WWTP operational and forecast future needs. The WWTP Annual 
Major Components Project aims to enhance the ongoing improvements to the two digesters, which are used to break 
down solids in the wastewater treatment process. The WWTP operates two egg-shaped digesters in parallel and can 
operate with one digester but at limited capacity and with risk and cost to operations and maintenance. Cleaning of the 
digesters ensure reliability and safe operations of the digestion process and breakdown of sludge for safe disposal. 
Digester 2 is currently offline due to failure of the mixer and draft tube in 2022. Services to repair the mixer and draft tube 
are currently in process. During the process of repair, it was observed that cleaning would be required to conduct the 
digester repairs properly and allow for reliable start-up and operations of the digester. Additionally, digester cleaning, 
which helps maintain capacity, effectiveness, and asset lifespan, has not been performed since 2010. To facilitate the 
repairs and cleaning, City WWTP operations and maintenance staff purged the digester of gas and liquid, and remaining 
materials include large solids, rags, grit, and struvite build-up. The City has been able to maintain operational capacity by 
operating only Digester 1; however, the inability to operate both digesters creates a larger volume of sludge (due to an 
increased liquid content) to be off-hauled, increasing disposal costs by $26,000 per month. Getting both digesters fixed 
and operational is essential for keeping disposal costs to a minimum. Furthermore, allowing Digester 2 to be cleaned, 
come online, and operate reliably will allow for inspection of Digester 1. The inspection of Digester 1 is scoped under the 
WWTP Biogas and Biosolids Evaluation, which was awarded to a consultant by City Council on November 18, 2024.
Staff initiated the process of obtaining a contractor for cleaning of Digester 2, which at the time was thought to be 
approximately $80,000. However, as staff started to solicit bids, the cost to clean was substantially higher due to the 
complexity and procedures to access and clean egg-shaped digesters. Egg-shaped anaerobic digester systems are not very 
common in the Bay Area and therefore, many companies don’t have experience cleaning this type of digester or capability 
to meet the repair and start-up schedule. The digester needs to get cleaned prior to reinstalling the mixer, which is 
33 of 426

--- page 34 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
currently scheduled to arrive in April 2025. 
Staff requested three quotes from Synagro, Pipe and Plant Solutions, and Bristola, LLC (“Bristola”). Synagro declined to 
provide a quote due to specialization of the egg-shaped digesters. Pipe and Plant Solutions and Bristola provided cost 
proposals. Staff assessed both proposals and had virtual discussions with each vendor. Staff reviewed and negotiated a 
proposal with Bristola for $364,100 and determined it to be appropriate for the scope of work, expertise required, and 
timely need, and recommends Council approve an agreement with Bristola. Additionally, the costs associated with the 
cleaning can reduce the concurrent Biogas and Biosolids Evaluation Project scope and cost by coordinating the timing for 
the joint work of the scaffolding required for both projects. 
Agreements that exceed $100,000 typically require an invitation-for-sealed-bids process. San Mateo Municipal Code 
Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to approve an alternative purchasing procedure when it finds doing so is 
in the best interest of the City. Because of the unusual egg-shaped digesters, only few companies have the capability to 
provide the cleaning services the City requires. In addition, the time it would take to go through a sealed bids process 
would not meet the timeframe needed to have the digester cleaned prior to the arrival of the repaired mixer and would 
not allow for the coordinated efforts of the Biogas and Biosolids Evaluation. Therefore, staff recommends for Council to 
award an agreement with Bristola since it is one of few companies that is able to provide the requisite cleaning services, 
will allow for Digestor 2 to be appropriately cleaned prior to completion of the repairs, ensure reliable start-up, and to 
meet the timeline for Biogas and Biosolids Evaluation.
Staff further recommends that $36,000 be authorized as a contingency amount for any potential changes that may arise 
due to the nature of this repair and investigation work.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds available in the budget for WWTP Annual Major Components Project (46t090) to award this 
agreement and fund the contingency amount. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” in that the cleaning of Digestor 2 consists of the 
operation, repair, or maintenance of an existing public structure, facility, or mechanical equipment involving negligible or 
no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.) 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att. 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att. 2 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Thomas Ruark, Senior Project Manager 
truark@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7280
Deryk Daquigan, Deputy Director of Public Works
Ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650)522-7287
Matthew Fabry, Director of Public Works
mfabry@cityofsanmateo.org
(650)522-7303
34 of 426

--- page 35 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR AN AGREEMENT WITH BRISTOLA, LLC FOR THE 
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT DIGESTER 2 CLEANING
WHEREAS, the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) Digester 2 Cleaning Project (Project) is a Clean 
Water Program capital improvement project that will result in ensuring the reliability and safe operation of 
existing WWTP facilities; and 
WHEREAS, one of the two digesters used to break down solids in the wastewater treatment process, 
Digester 2, requires cleaning services prior to completion of needed repairs and reinstallation of the mixer and 
draft tube, which is estimated to be completed in April 2025; and
WHEREAS, Digester 2 is egg-shaped, which is uncommon in the Bay Area and few companies have the 
capability to provide the requisite cleaning services; and 
WHEREAS, utilizing a sealed bid process will not likely allow for Digester 2 to be cleaned prior to 
reinstallation of the mixer and draft tube in April 2025; and 
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3) provides that the City may use purchasing 
procedures approved by the City Council if the City Council makes a finding concurrent with the award for the 
contract that the procedures are in the best interest of the City for the particular contract; and 
WHEREAS, in lieu of a sealed bid process, three requests for quotes were directly solicited and two 
companies with the experience and capability to clean egg-shaped digesters submitted quotes; and
WHEREAS, staff reviewed the two received quotes and determined that Bristola, LLC is the most 
competitive and qualified contractor to perform the requisite cleaning services; and
WHEREAS, having Digester 2 completed in a timely manner will also allow for the City to have Digester 1 
inspected for the WWTP Biosolids and Biogas Evaluation. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
The Council action approving this agreement is categorically exempt from CEQA review as an 
“existing facility,” in that it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, 
licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical 
equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
    
2.
In accordance with Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3), award of an agreement to Bristola, LLC 
for Digester 2 cleaning services is in the best interest of the City because:
a.
The City’s egg-shaped digesters at the WWTP are uncommon in the Bay Area;
35 of 426

--- page 36 ---
b.
Limited companies are capable of cleaning egg-shaped digesters given their specialized 
nature and specific methods to access and clean; 
c.
Cleaning and installation of the mixer and draft tube for Digester 2 in a timely manner will 
minimize ongoing disposal costs, and will allow for Digester 2 to come back online, allowing 
for Digester 1 to be inspected for the WWTP Biosolids and Biogas evaluation; and
d.
Bristola is the only company offering an economically feasible method for the cleaning 
service which meets the City’s timeline.
3.
The Agreement with Bristola, LLC for the Wastewater Treatment Plant Digester 2 Cleaning in the 
amount not to exceed of $364,100 is approved.
4.
A contingency reserve of $36,000 is established for this project.
5.
The Public Works Director is authorized to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
presented and approve any necessary change orders within the approved contingency amount.
36 of 426

--- page 37 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 1 of 12
Rev 9/22
AGREEMENT WITH BRISTOLA, LLC
FOR DIGESTER CLEANING SERVICES
FOR 
AMC-DIGESTER 2 CLEANING 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ______________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
("CITY"), and BRISTOLA, LLC ("CONTRACTOR"), whose address is 1226 Illinois Street Des Moines, IA 
50314.
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires certain digester maintenance and cleaning services hereinafter described.
B.
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these _digester maintenance and 
cleaning services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and 
CONTRACTOR has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth 
herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work.
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement.
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR.
CONTRACTOR and his subcontractors shall comply with State’s Prevailing Wage Laws.  
CONTRACTOR or subcontractor shall not be qualified to bid on, be listed in a bid proposal, or 
engage in the performance of any contract for public work unless currently registered and qualified to 
perform public work pursuant to Section 1725.5 of the Labor Code.  For the work performed for the 
City, the CONTRACTOR and his subcontractors shall pay the workers at the prevailing wage rate as 
determined by the California Department of Industrial Relations, for this locality.  This project is subject 
to compliance monitoring and enforcement by the Department of Industrial Relations.  CONTRACTOR 
37 of 426

--- page 38 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 2 of 12
Rev 9/22
agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, 
which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price Index escalator.
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR's work.
SECTION 4 - TERM
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence upon execution of the 
Agreement and be completed on August 30, 2025.
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR a fee in an amount 
of $364,100, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 6 – TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR.  CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice.
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall 
be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not.
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release.
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement.
38 of 426

--- page 39 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 3 of 12
Rev 9/22
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify City of San Mateo and the Estero 
Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and 
against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONTRACTOR’s 
performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole negligence or willful 
misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement 
District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The 
CONTRACTOR’S duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement.
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified 
in Exhibit C to this Agreement.
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY.
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation.
39 of 426

--- page 40 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 4 of 12
Rev 9/22
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance.
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
40 of 426

--- page 41 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 5 of 12
Rev 9/22
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR'S services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR'S wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR'S standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
SECTION 20 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Thomas Ruark
City of San Mateo 
WWTP Digester 2 Cleaning
City of San Mateo 
2050 Detroit Drive 
San Mateo, CA 
To CONTRACTOR:
Bristola, LLC
Attn:  Jared Burma
1226 Illinois Street
Des Moines, IA 50314
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR.
SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
41 of 426

--- page 42 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 6 of 12
Rev 9/22
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement has been duly executed by the parties hereinabove 
named, as of the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Matt Fabry
Public Works Director
Date
Jared Burma
Chief Executive Officer 
If a Corporation, can be either 
1) President or 2) Vice 
President plus an additional 
corporate officer (i.e., 
Secretary, Treasurer) who shall 
sign below.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
N/A
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services
Exhibit B: 
Payment Rates
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements
42 of 426

--- page 43 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 7 of 12
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES
Bristola will traditionally clean the solids from the Digester at City of San Mateo WWTP. Bristola will 
also include transportation and disposal of trash and solids. Trash to be sent to debris box and solids to 
the landfill. If needed, we can utilize the site waste manhole for turbid water to send back to head 
works. Entering through top. Once majority of solids have been removed from the digester, Bristola 
will power wash remaining sediment. Digester is 1.2MG and filled with grit, rags, material. Estimated 
current height of material is 10 feet from bottom of digester for total volume of 1,000 cubic feet/45 
cubic yards. Level measurement from the top of the tank is about 73ft to the water level. 
 Items to Consider:
1. Method for screening large trash
2. Note the material can’t be dried or stored onsite
3. Turbid water can be sent back through the headworks through manhole to site waste
4. Inclusions/Exclusions
5. H&S provisions
43 of 426

--- page 44 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 8 of 12
Rev 9/22
Mobilization
1. Mobilization of all equipment to the project site.
a. Once mobilization is complete Bristola will perform a walkthrough with Client. 
b. After the walkthrough and layout approval, Bristola will begin setup of site.
c.
Make electrical connections and route cords
d. Identify and tape off safety areas
Operations
1. Bristola will be managing the Project and the Bristola team will work 10 hours a day with a 1-
hour lunch, for 6 days a week.  
2. Begin cleaning digester with manpower and vac truck.
3. Goal of this cleaning is to remove the solids from the digester. Drain the rest of the liquids to 
complete. 
4. Customer is responsible for disposal fee of the sediment at the landfill. 
5. Cleaned per the client’s request and demobilize. 
Bristola Responsibilities 
1. Safety monitors for employees 
44 of 426

--- page 45 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 9 of 12
Rev 9/22
2. Support equipment 
3. Labor to operate the equipment, hole watch & supervise the project 
4. Spill cleanup and containment
5. Dewatering solids to paint filter standards
6. Transportation for solids to landfill
45 of 426

--- page 46 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 10 of 12
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT B
PAYMENT RATES
Pricing is based on removal of estimated 1000 cft of material
Services and Items
Estimated 
Units
Unit of 
Measure
Cost
Total Cost
Mobilization/Demobilization
1
Fixed
$50,000
$50,000
Labor (prevailing wage)
4
Fixed 
$68,000
$68,000
Supervisor (prevailing wage)
1
Fixed
$30,000
$30,000
Per Diem 
5
Fixed 
$10,000
$10,000
Safety equipment/services 
(monitors, hole watch, 
supplied air, harnesses, PPE)  
1
Fixed
$50,000
$50,000
Bristola Processing solids 
(Pressing to meet paint filter 
test) 
1
Fixed
$50,000
$50,000
Trucking (prevailing wage)
1
Fixed 
$45,000
$45,000
Power washing 
(prevailing wage)
20
Hours
$600
$12,000
Rentals/Materials cost plus 
20%. (Crane, Telehandler, 
extra pumps, hose, other) 
Estimate 
$7,500
$7,500
Struvite blasting (draft tube) 
(prevailing wage)
1
Fixed
$30,000
$30,000
Draft Tube video inspection 
(prevailing wage)
1
Fixed
$10,000
$10,000
Fuel 
200
Gallons
$8.00
$1,600
46 of 426

--- page 47 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 11 of 12
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT C
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease. 
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for liability arising 
out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the Contractor; and on the 
CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the 
Contractor including materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work or 
operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the 
Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 
forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
as respects the City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City of 
San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, 
employees, or agents shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City.
Waiver of Subrogation
47 of 426

--- page 48 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 12 of 12
Rev 9/22
Contractor hereby grants to the City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District a 
waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor may acquire against the City by 
virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement 
that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of 
whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer.  
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City.
Verification of Coverage
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of 
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
48 of 426

--- page 49 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-9912
File ID: 24-9502
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Information Technology Department
MEETING DATE:
January 21, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Enterprise Resource Planning Software Project – Supplemental Budget Appropriation and Change Orders
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental budget appropriation of $210,172 from unassigned fund balance of the 
Equipment Replacement Fund to increase the capital budget for the Enterprise Resource Planning Project; approve Change 
Order No. 8 to the master services agreement with Collaborative Solutions, LLC for ERP implementation services in the 
amount of $199,922 for a new agreement total of $4,739,292; approve Change Order No. 485765 to the master 
subscription agreement with Workday, Inc. for delivery assurance services in the amount of $10,250 for a new agreement 
total of $187,605; and authorize the City Manager to execute the Change Orders in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
In February 2022, the City Council awarded a contract to Collaborative Solutions, LLC in the amount of $2,527,160 as part 
of the enterprise resource planning (ERP) system replacement project (Project). Collaborative Solutions, LLC is now known 
as Cognizant. 
The ERP supports the City’s core administration functions of Human Capital Management (HCM), Payroll, and Core 
Financials. The ERP implementation has occurred in phases. Phase 1 covered Core Financials, began in March 2022, and 
went live on November 1, 2022. Phase 2 began in October 2022 and covers HCM and Payroll. The Plan, Architect, 
Configure, and Test Stages of Phase 2 have been completed, and project work is currently focused on the Deployment 
Stage. The Deployment Stage is a critical time when HR and Payroll staff ensure payroll calculations are accurate, City staff 
are trained, and City bargaining units are informed of changes brought by the new HCM and Payroll system through the 
meet and confer process. When the Deployment Stage is complete, the Project will continue with Post-Production 
Support. 
Delays with the Testing Stage resulted in the need for significant previous timeline extensions and Change Orders. End-to-
End testing was originally scheduled for completion on August 18, 2023, but was extended by 26 weeks with the approval 
by Council of Change Orders No. 5 and No. 6 on September 18, 2023. This resulted in a new target Go-Live in June 2024 
and increased the Project budget by $780,580. However, in November 2023, it became clear that insufficient testing 
progress was occurring to meet the new Go-Live target. While Change Orders No. 5 and No. 6 extended the Project 
schedule and increased consultant resource commitments, they did not properly address the root causes of Project delays.
Change Order No. 7 extended the Project timeline an additional 26 weeks for a Go-Live in December 2024, concurrent with 
the first pay period of calendar year 2025. However, it required significantly less funding than prior Change Orders. Rather 
than extend time and money on the same trajectory, the Project team addressed Project deficiencies and remediated 
them through a Project re-plan. The new approach emphasized City staff performing functional work as is the best practice 
for Workday projects, rather than outsource that work to consultants to fill resource gaps. This re-plan also included new 
49 of 426

--- page 50 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Cognizant project managers and leadership to provide more support and guidance for the Project. Additionally, the City’s 
Project Steering Committee consisted of HR and Finance Directors who have since left City employment. These roles were 
re-filled by the City’s current Finance Director, IT Director, and our recently hired HR Director. The Project Steering 
Committee reports to the City Manager, who serves as the Project Sponsor. 
Approval of Change Order No. 8 will extend the project timeline an additional 3 months for Go-Live at the end of March 
2025. This will provide HR and Payroll staff and the rest of the Project team sufficient time to ensure a successful 
Deployment Stage. Work toward that end will include ensuring accurate payroll calculations, ‘meet and confer’ with 
bargaining units, and end user training. Much of the work during this proposed 3-month project extension will be led by 
City staff rather than consultants, with the expectation that staff will gain a more complete understanding of the system 
and be better able to support and manage it long term. As reflected in Attachment 2 (Change Order No. 8), the additional 
scope cost for Cognizant is $199,922. As reflected in Attachment 3 (Change Order No. 485765), the additional delivery 
assurance services from Workday for the extended period will cost $10,250. All told, the project cost increase is $210,172.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The proposed Resolution, included as Attachment 1, approves adding $210,172 supplemental budget appropriations for 
the ERP Project from unassigned fund balance of the Equipment Replacement Fund. This fund balance will be replenished 
over a 10-year period.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Approval of the change orders for ERP implementation support is not subject to CEQA review under the common sense 
exemption in it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the activity in question may have a significant 
effect on the environment (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061.) In addition, approval of a supplemental budget appropriation 
for the Project is not subject to CEQA review in that it consists of a governmental fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Change Order No. 8
Att 3 – Change Order No. 485765
STAFF CONTACT
Pete Owen, Director, Information Technology
powen@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7074
50 of 426

--- page 51 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
APPROVING A SUPPLEMENTAL BUDGET APPROPRIATION IN THE AMOUNT OF $210,172 FROM THE 
UNASSIGNED FUND BALANCE OF THE EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT FUND TO THE CAPITAL BUDGET FOR THE 
ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING SOFTWARE PROJECT
WHEREAS, the City Council awarded a master services agreement to Collaborative Solutions, LLC, now 
known as Cognizant, in February 2022 for enterprise resource planning (ERP) system implementation services 
for the ERP Planning Software Project (Project); and
WHEREAS, additional time is required to complete the Deployment Stage of the Project to ensure 
proper system functioning and to prevent payroll or benefits errors that may adversely impact employees at go-
live; and
WHEREAS, an additional 12 weeks will provide Human Resources and Payroll more time to complete 
payroll testing, meet and confer with City staff, deliver training to users, and deploy on a new go-live date of 
March 16, 2025; and
WHEREAS, additional funds in the amount of $210,172 in the Capital Budget for the Project is required 
to cover the additional 12 weeks required; and
WHEREAS, there are sufficient funds in the unassigned fund balance of the Equipment Replacement 
Fund to provide for the additional 12 weeks for the Project; and 
WHEREAS, approval of this appropriation will enable the execution of Change Orders with Collaborative 
Solutions, LLC and Workday, Inc. to assist with ERP-related services during the additional 12 weeks.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, RESOLVES that:
1.
This City Council action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it consists of a governmental 
fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in 
a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(4).)
2.
A supplemental budget appropriation of $210,172, of unassigned fund balance from the 
Equipment Replacement Fund, to increase the budget for the Enterprise Resource Planning 
Software Project (Project No. 200001) by $210,172 is approved.
51 of 426

--- page 52 ---
> cognizant

Project Change Order #8

December 13 2024



--- page 53 ---
53 of 426

--- page 54 ---
54 of 426

--- page 55 ---
Request Description

Change #1: This Change Order extends the projecttimeline 12 weeks and set the anticipated Go-Live
date to March 16, 2025. No new scope items. All werk will be focus on resolving open items and
payroll impacting issues which will be managed by the project PMO.

Go-Live Push Items Change Order Price

Extension of Resources for all Functional areas $259,922.00
including the EM

Sub Total $259,922.00

Cognizant Investment $60,000.00

“Go-Live” Change Order Amount $199,922.00
Change #2: The following projects end dates will also be revised:

e City of San Mateo, CA - HCM/Pay - Phase2 — New project end Date June 27, 2025
e City of San Mateo — Change Order #6 — Staff Aug on current project (Testing staff
augmentation is under this project) New Project End Date March 31, 2025

e City of San Mateo P2 HCM/Pay Change Order 7 - Proj. Extension & Addtl. OC&T New
Project End Date March 31, 2025

Business Purpose / Reason for Change

Change #1: The client required more time to complete internal training, close out remaining
open items, reduce the payroll variances & have conversations with their unions related to
payroll impacts. Therefore, the project go-live date will move to 3/16/2025 from 12/22/2024
(CO#7). As a result of the extension of the project go-live date, the extended post production
support for Integrations and payroll support, as stated under CO#6, end date will change from
4/11/2025 to 6/27/2025

Change #2: Need to align all projects end dates to ensure work can continue.

55 of 426



--- page 56 ---
56 of 426

--- page 57 ---
57 of 426

--- page 58 ---
58 of 426

--- page 59 ---
Confidential
Change Order (Delivery Assurance)
©2024 Workday, Inc. v24.11
Page 1 of 2
CHANGE ORDER # 485765
TO MASTER SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENT (“MSA”)
(DELIVERY ASSURANCE – CHANGES FOR ACTIVE PROJECT ONLY)
Customer Name
City of San Mateo
Workday Entity Name
Workday, Inc. 6110 Stoneridge Mall Rd., Pleasanton, CA 94588
MSA Effective Date
February 23, 2022
Change Order Effective Date
The later of the dates beneath the parties’ signatures below
Original Order Form #
ORDER FORM #319918
Currency
USD
Total Additional Consulting Fees
$10,250.00
This Change Order is supplemental to and is governed by the terms and conditions stated in the Original Order 
Form referenced above.
The Order Term of the Original Order Form is hereby extended and will end on April 11, 2025. 
Fees and Payment. Customer will be invoiced for the Total Additional Consulting Fees upon the Change Order 
Effective Date with fees payable in accordance with the terms of the MSA. All remittance advice and invoice inquiries 
may be directed to Accounts.Receivable@workday.com. Any travel and other expenses associated with the 
Professional Services set forth in this Change Order are subject to the terms of the Original Order Form or the MSA 
to which the Original Order Form is subject, as the case may be.
Customer Contact Information
Billing, In Care of
Contact Name
Peter Owen
Street Address
City/Town, State/Region/Province, Zip/Postal Code 
Country
330 W 20th Ave
San Mateo, California 94403
United States
Phone/Fax #
650-522-7000
Email (required)
powen@cityofsanmateo.org
This Change Order is only valid and binding on the parties when executed by both parties and is subject to the 
additional terms in the MSA and Addendum A to the Original Order Form referenced above. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Change Order is entered into and becomes a binding part of the above-referenced 
MSA as of the Change Order Effective Date, defined above.
City of San Mateo
Workday, Inc.
Signature
Signature
Name 
Name
Title
Title
Date Signed 
Date Signed
59 of 426

--- page 60 ---
Confidential
Change Order (Delivery Assurance)
©2024 Workday, Inc. v24.11
Page 2 of 2
60 of 426

--- page 61 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2021
File ID: 25-9533
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
January 21, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Examination of Sales or Transactions and Use Tax Records – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to authorize Hinderlighter de Llamas and Associates to examine sales or transactions and use tax 
records for all sales and transactions and use taxes.
BACKGROUND:
The Finance Department has contracted with MuniServices, LLC for several years to provide for the examination and audit 
services for all sales and transactions and use taxes. These services ensure that all sales and transactions and use revenues 
are appropriately calculated, collected, and received by the City of San Mateo. Since sales tax data is confidential, the City 
must formally delegate this authority to a third party via a Resolution that it files with the California Department of Tax 
and Fee Administration (CDTFA). In December 2024, the Finance Department entered into a new agreement with 
Hinderlighter de Llamas and Associates to provide examination and audit services for all sales and transactions and use 
taxes. As a result, the City must file a new Resolution with CDTFA to formally delegate this authority to Hinderlighter de 
Llamas and Associates and allow them to access our records as the new third-party examiner. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact related to this Resolution. The services are the same as the services provided by 
MuniServices LLC.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Resolution to authorize examination of sales or transactions and use tax records is not a project subject to CEQA, 
because it consists of a government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which 
may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Abby Veeser, Deputy Director
aveeser@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
61 of 426

--- page 62 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO.___ (2025)
AUTHORIZATION OF THE EXAMINATION OF SALES OR TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX RECORDS
WHEREAS, pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code Chapters 3.50 and 3.52, the City of San Mateo 
entered into a contract with the California Department of Tax and Fee Administration (Department) to perform 
all functions incident to the administration and collection of the Transactions and Use Tax Ordinances and the 
local sales and use taxes; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo deems it desirable and necessary for authorized officers, employees 
and representatives of the City to examine confidential sales or transactions and use tax records of the 
Department pertaining to sales or transactions and use taxes collected by the Department for the City pursuant 
to that contract, including the City of San Mateo Transactions and Use Tax; and
WHEREAS, Section 7056 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code sets forth certain requirements 
and conditions for the disclosure of Department records, and Section 7056.5 of the California Revenue and 
Taxation Code establishes criminal penalties for the unlawful disclosure of information contained in, or derived 
from, the sales or transactions and use tax records of the Department.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO HEREBY RESOLVES AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. That the City Manager, Assistant City Manager, Finance Director, Community Development 
Director, Deputy Finance Director, Economic Development Manager, Budget Manager, Budget Analyst or other 
officer or employee of the City designated in writing by the City Manager to the California Department of Tax 
and Fee Administration is hereby appointed to represent the City with authority to examine sales or transactions 
and use tax records of the Department pertaining to sales or transactions and use taxes collected for the City by 
the Department pursuant to the contract between the City and the Department. 
Section 2.  The information obtained by examination of Department records shall be used only for 
purposes related to the collection of City sales or transactions and use taxes by the Department pursuant to that 
contract, and for purposes related to the following governmental functions of the City:
(a) Forecasting and budget planning
(b) Tracking and economic development
(c) Detection of misallocation and deficiencies
(d) Real property services
The information obtained by examination of Department records shall be used only for those governmental 
functions of the City listed above.
Section 3. That Hinderlighter de Llamas and Associates is hereby designated to examine the sales or 
transactions and use tax records of the Department pertaining to sales or transactions and use taxes collected 
for the City by the Department. The person or entity designated by this section meets all of the following 
conditions, which are also included in the contract between the City and Hinderlighter de Llamas and Associates:
a)
has an existing contract with the City to examine those sales or transactions and use tax records;
b)
is required by that contract to disclose information contained in, or derived from, those sales or 
transactions and use tax records only to the officer or employee authorized under Section 1 of this 
Resolution to examine the information.
62 of 426

--- page 63 ---
c)
is prohibited by that contract from performing consulting services for a retailer during the term of that 
contract;
d)
is prohibited by that contract from retaining the information contained in, or derived from those sales or 
transactions and use tax records, after that contract has expired.
Section 4. That the information obtained by examination of Department records shall be used only for 
purposes related to the collection of City sales or transactions and use taxes by the Department pursuant to the 
contract between the City and the Department and for those purposes relating to the governmental functions of 
the City listed in section 2 of this Resolution.
Section 5. That this Resolution supersedes all prior Resolutions of the City Council of the City of San 
Mateo adopted pursuant to subdivision (b) of Revenue and Taxation Code section 7056.
Section 6. Adoption of this Resolution authorizing the examination of sales or transactions and use tax 
records is not a project subject to CEQA, because it consists of a government fiscal activity which does not 
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant impact on the 
environment.  (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
63 of 426

--- page 64 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 25-9558
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
January 21, 2025 
SUBJECT:
New Construction Reach Codes for the 2022 Code Cycle — Ordinance Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.24 “Energy Code” and Chapter 23.70 “Green 
Building Code” to require enhanced energy performance for new construction, repeal unenforceable measures of the 
City’s current reach codes, and make a minor edit to the City’s electric-readiness requirements. 
BACKGROUND:
On January 13, 2025, the City Council introduced an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.24 
“Energy Code” and Chapter 23.70 “Green Building Code” to require enhanced energy performance for new construction, 
repeal unenforceable measures of the City’s current reach codes, and make a minor edit to the City’s electric-readiness 
requirements. Additionally, the City Council approved a Resolution to adopt express findings for local sustainability-related 
amendments to the California building standards code, 2022 edition, relative to local climatic, geographical, or 
topographical conditions. The proposed Ordinance is attached. If adopted, the Ordinance will become effective 30 days 
after its adoption. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with review of the proposed Ordinance.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action to adopt reach codes and amend the energy Code and Green Building Code is categorically exempt from CEQA 
as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor 
alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving 
negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Chantal Eaton, Deputy City Clerk
ceaton@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
64 of 426

--- page 65 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
An Ordinance amending San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.24 “Energy Code,” of Title 23, “Building and 
Construction,” to amend the California Energy Code, 2022 Edition and amending San Mateo Municipal Code 
Chapter 23.70 “Green Building Code,” of Title 23, “Building and Construction,” to amend the California Green 
Building Standards Code, 2022 Edition
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo’s (City) Climate Action Plan recommends the City review local 
amendments to the California Energy Code and the Green Building Standards Code to promote building 
electrification, energy efficiency, and electric vehicle infrastructure; and
WHEREAS, California Energy Code and Green Building Standards Code, 2022 Edition, were adopted by 
the City of San Mateo on November 7, 2022 with local amendments to require all-electric new construction and 
electric-readiness and electric appliances during residential building remodels; and
WHEREAS, due to a federal court decision, in early 2024, the City suspended enforcement of local 
amendments that prohibited the installation of gas infrastructure; and
WHEREAS, this presented an opportunity to replace the City’s reach code to encourage sustainable new 
construction; and
WHEREAS, the proposed Ordinance amends the California Energy Code to require energy compliance 
margins for newly constructed buildings and require electric-readiness when gas infrastructure is installed; and
WHEREAS, the proposed Ordinance appeals local amendments to the California Green Building Code 
that are unenforceable due to the federal court decision; and
WHEREAS, the proposed Ordinance amends the California Green Building Code to make a minor edit to 
the electric-readiness requirements to promote consistency with the 2022 Energy Code electric-readiness 
requirements for new construction; and
WHEREAS, California Health and Safety Code Sections 17922, 17958, 17958.5, 17958.7, and 18941.5 
authorizes the City to make local amendments to the California Energy Code and Green Building Standards Code 
upon express findings that the local amendments are reasonably necessary due to local climatic, geographical, 
or topographical conditions; and
WHEREAS, concurrent with this Ordinance, the City Council of the City of San Mateo has adopted a 
resolution adopting express findings in support of local amendments to the California Energy Code and Green 
Building Standards Code, 2022 Edition; and
WHEREAS, Public Resources Code Section 25402.1(h)2 and Section 10-106 of the Building Energy 
Efficiency Standards (Standards) establish a process which allows local adoption of energy standards that are 
more stringent than the statewide Standards, provided that such local standards are cost effective, and the 
California Energy Commission finds that the standards will require building to be designed to consume no more 
energy than permitted by the California Energy Code; and 
65 of 426

--- page 66 ---
WHEREAS, staff has reviewed the cost effectiveness studies prepared by the California Statewide Codes 
and Standards Reach Code Program and associated study data and find them sufficient to illustrate compliance 
with the requirements set forth under California Administrative Code Chapter 10-106; and
WHEREAS, that such modifications will result in designs that consume less energy than they would 
under the 2022 State Energy Code through the California Statewide Codes and Standards Reach Code Program, 
has performed cost effectiveness analyses as required by the California Energy Commission for the local 
amendments to the California Energy Code contained in this Ordinance which is hereby incorporated by 
reference; and
WHEREAS, based upon these analyses, the San Mateo City Council finds that the local amendments to 
the California Energy Code contained in the Ordinance have at least one cost effective pathway and will require 
buildings to be designed to consume no more energy than permitted by the California Energy Code.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 23.24.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.24.020 Local Amendment to Definitions
(a) Energy Code subsection 100.1(b) is amended to include the following definitions:
Electric Heating Appliance. A device that produces heat energy to create a warm environment by the 
application of electric power to resistance elements, refrigerant compressors, or dissimilar material 
junctions, as defined in the California Mechanical Code.
Kitchen, institutional commercial. A kitchen dedicated to a foodservice establishment that provides 
meals at institutions including schools, colleges and universities, hospitals, correctional facilities, private 
cafeterias, nursing homes, and other buildings or structures in which care or supervision is provided to 
occupants.
Kitchen, quick-service commercial. A kitchen dedicated to an establishment primarily engaged in 
providing fast food, fast casual, or limited services. Food and drink may be consumed on premises, taken 
out, or delivered to the customer’s location.
Net Free Area (NFA). The total unobstructed area of the air gaps between louver and grille slats in a 
vent through which air can pass. The narrowest distance between two slats, perpendicular to the 
surface of both slats is the air gap height. The narrowest width of the gap is the air gap width. The NFA is 
the air gap height multiplied by the air gap width multiplied by the total number of air gaps between 
slats in the vent.
Section 2. Section 23.24.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
66 of 426

--- page 67 ---
23.24.030 Electric-readiness and Energy Performance of Nonresidential Buildings
(a) Energy Code Section 120.2 “Required Controls for Space-Conditioning Systems” is amended to add a 
new subsection (l) to read as follows:
(l) HVAC Hot Water Temperature. Zones that use hot water for space heating shall be designed 
for a hot water supply temperature of no greater than 130°F.
(b) Energy Code Section 120.6 “Mandatory Requirements for Covered Processes” is amended to add a 
new subsection (k) to read as follows:
(k) Mandatory requirements for commercial kitchens. Electric Readiness for Newly Constructed 
Commercial Kitchens shall meet the following requirements:
1. Quick-service commercial kitchens and institutional commercial kitchens shall include 
a dedicated branch circuit wiring and outlet that would be accessible to cookline 
appliances and shall meet all of the following requirements: 
A. The branch circuit conductors shall be rated at 50 amps minimum.
B. The electrical service panel shall have a minimum capacity of 800 connected 
amps.
2. The electrical service panel shall be sized to accommodate an additional either 208v 
or 240v 50-amp breaker.
Exception 1 to Section 120.6(k): healthcare facilities. 
Exception 2 to Section 120.6(k): all-electric commercial kitchens.
(c) Energy Code subsection 130.0(a) is amended to read as follows:
The design and installation of all lighting systems and equipment in nonresidential and hotel/motel 
buildings, outdoor lighting, and electrical power distribution systems within the scope of Section 
100.0(a), shall comply with the applicable provisions of Sections 130.0 through 130.6. 
NOTE: The requirements of Sections 130.0 through 130.6 apply to newly constructed buildings. Section 
141.0 specifies which requirements of Sections 130.0 through 130.6 also apply to additions and 
alterations to existing buildings.
(d) Energy Code Subchapter 4 “Nonresidential and Hotel/Motel Occupancies – Mandatory Requirements 
for Lighting Systems and Equipment, and Electrical Power Distribution Systems” is amended to add a new 
section 130.6 “Electric Readiness Requirements for Systems Using Gas or Propane” and read as follows:
130.6 Electric Readiness Requirements for Systems Using Gas or Propane  
67 of 426

--- page 68 ---
Where nonresidential systems using gas or propane are installed, the construction drawings shall 
indicate electrical infrastructure and physical space accommodating the future installation of an electric 
heating appliance in the following ways, as certified by a registered design professional or licensed 
electrical contractor.
(a) Branch circuit wiring, electrically isolated and designed to serve all electric heating appliances 
in accordance with manufacturer requirements and the California Electrical Code, including the 
appropriate voltage, phase, minimum amperage, and an electrical receptacle or junction box 
within five feet of the appliance that is accessible with no obstructions. Appropriately sized 
conduit may be installed in lieu of conductors; and 
(b) Labeling of both ends of the unused conductors or conduit shall be with “For Future 
Electrical Appliance”; and
(c) Reserved circuit breakers in the electrical panel for each branch circuit, appropriately labeled 
(e.g. “Reserved for Future Electric Range”), and positioned on the opposite end of the panel 
supply conductor connection; and
(d) Connected subpanels, panelboards, switchboards, busbars, and transformers shall be sized 
to serve the future electric heating appliances. The electrical capacity requirements shall be 
adjusted for demand factors in accordance with the California Electric Code; and 
(e) Physical space for future electric heating appliances, including equipment footprint, and if 
needed a pathway reserved for routing of ductwork to heat pump evaporator(s), shall be 
depicted on the construction drawings. The footprint necessary for future electric heating 
appliances may overlap with non-structural partitions and with the location of currently 
designed combustion equipment.
(e) Energy Code Section 140.0 “Performance and Prescriptive Compliance Approaches” is amended to 
read as follows:
Nonresidential and hotel/motel buildings shall comply with all of the following:
(a) The requirements of Sections 100.0 through 110.12 applicable to the building project 
(mandatory measures for all buildings).
(b) The requirements of Sections 120.0 through 130.6 (mandatory measures for nonresidential 
and high-rise residential and hotel/motel buildings).
(c) Either the performance compliance approach (energy budgets) specified in Section 140.1, or 
the prescriptive compliance approach specified in Section 140.2 for the Climate Zone in which 
the building will be located.  Climate zones are shown in FIGURE 100.1-A.
NOTE to Section 140.0(c): The Commission periodically updates, publishes and makes available 
to interested persons and local enforcement agencies precise descriptions of the Climate Zones, 
68 of 426

--- page 69 ---
which is available by zip code boundaries depicted in the Reference Joint Appendices along with 
a list of the communities in each zone.
NOTE to Section 140.0: The requirements of Sections 140.1 through 140.10 apply to newly constructed 
buildings.  Section 141.0 specifies which requirements of Section 140.1 through 140.10 also apply to 
additions or alterations to existing buildings.
(f) Energy Code Section 140.1 “Performance Approach: Energy Budgets” is amended to read as follows:
A building complies with the performance approach provided that:
1. The time-dependent valuation (TDV) energy budget calculated for the Proposed Design 
Building under Subsection (b) is no greater than the TDV energy budget calculated for the 
Standard Design Building under Subsection (a), and
2. The source energy budget calculated for the proposed design building under Subsection (b) 
has a source energy compliance margin, relative to the energy budget calculated for the 
standard design building under Subsection (a), of at least 7 percent for all nonresidential 
occupancies.
Exception 1 to 140.1 item 2. A source energy compliance margin of 0 percent or greater 
is required when nonresidential occupancies are designed with single zone space-
conditioning systems complying with Section 140.4(a)2.
Exception 2 to 140.1 item 2. Where it is technically infeasible to implement the 
performance approach standards, exceptions are subject to review and approval at the 
discretion of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee.
(g) Energy Code subsections 140.1(a)-(c) are adopted without modification.
Section 3. Section 23.24.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.24.040 Local Amendment Regarding Electric-readiness and Energy Performance of Single-Family Residential 
Buildings.
(a) Energy Code subsection 150.0(t) is amended to read as follows:
(t) Heat pump space heater ready. Systems using gas or propane furnace to serve individual dwelling 
units shall include the following:
1. A dedicated 240 volt branch circuit wiring shall be installed within 3 feet from the furnace and 
accessible to the furnace with no obstructions. The branch circuit conductors shall be rated at 
30 amps minimum. The blank cover shall be identified as “240V ready.” All electrical 
components shall be installed in accordance with the California Electrical Code.
69 of 426

--- page 70 ---
2. The main electrical service panel shall have a reserved space to allow for the installation of a 
double pole circuit breaker for a future heat pump space heater installation. The reserved space 
shall be permanently marked as “For Future 240V use.”
3. A designated exterior location for a future heat pump compressor unit with either a drain or 
natural drainage for condensate.
(b) Energy Code subsection 150.1(b) is amended to read as follows:
(b) Performance Standards. A building complies with the performance standards if the energy 
consumption calculated for the proposed design building is no greater than the energy budget 
calculated for the standard design building using Commission-certified compliance software as 
specified by the Alternative Calculation Methods Approval Manual, as specified in sub-sections 
1, 2 and 3 below.
1. Newly Constructed Buildings. The Energy Budget for newly constructed buildings is 
expressed in terms of the Energy Design Ratings, which are based on source energy and 
time-dependent valuation (TDV) energy. The Energy Design Rating 1 (EDR1) is based on 
source energy. The Energy Design Rating 2 (EDR2) is based on TDV energy and has two 
components, the Energy Efficiency Design Rating, and the Solar Electric Generation and 
Demand Flexibility Design Rating. The total Energy Design Rating shall account for both 
the Energy Efficiency Design Rating and the Solar Electric Generation and Demand 
Flexibility Design Rating. The proposed building shall separately comply with the Source 
Energy Design Rating, Energy Efficiency Design Rating and the Total Energy Design 
Rating.  A building complies with the performance approach if the TDV energy budget 
calculated for the proposed design building is no greater than the TDV energy budget 
calculated for the Standard Design Building AND Source Energy compliance margin of at 
least 9, relative to the Source Energy Design Rating 1 calculated for the Standard Design 
building.
Exception 1 to Section 150.1(b)1. A community shared solar electric generation 
system, or other renewable electric generation system, and/or community 
shared battery storage system, which provides dedicated power, utility energy 
reduction credits, or payments for energy bill reductions, to the permitted 
building and is approved by the Energy Commission as specified in Title 24, Part 
1, Section 10-115, may offset part or all of the solar electric generation system 
Energy Design Rating required to comply with the Standards, as calculated 
according to methods established by the Commission in the Residential ACM 
Reference Manual.
Exception 2 to Section 150.1(b)1. A newly constructed building with a 
conditioned floor area less than 1,500 square feet shall achieve a Source Energy 
compliance margin of 4 or greater, relative to the Source Energy Design Rating 1 
calculated for the Standard Design building.
70 of 426

--- page 71 ---
Exception 3 to Section 150.1(b)1. A newly constructed building with a 
conditioned floor area less than 625 square feet shall achieve a Source Energy 
compliance margin of 0 or greater, relative to the Source Energy Design Rating 1 
calculated for the Standard Design building.
Exception 4 to Section 150.1(b)1. A newly constructed Accessory Dwelling Unit, 
as defined by San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.04.165(a), shall achieve a 
Source Energy compliance margin of 0 or greater, relative to the Source Energy 
Design Rating 1 calculated for the Standard Design building.
(c) Energy Code subsections 150.1(b)2, 150.1(b)3, and 150.1(c) are adopted without amendments.
Section 4. Section 23.24.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.24.050 Local Amendment Regarding Electric-readiness and Energy Performance of Multifamily Buildings.
(a) Energy Code subsection 160.4(a) is amended to read as follows:
(a) Reserved.
(b) Energy Code Section 160.9 “Mandatory Requirements for Electric Ready Buildings” is amended to 
add new subsections (d) through (f) as follows:
(d) Individual Heat Pump Water Heater Ready. Systems using gas or propane water 
heaters to serve individual dwelling units shall include the following components and 
shall meet the requirements of Section 160.9(f):
1. A dedicated 125 volt, 20 amp electrical receptacle that is connected to the electric 
panel with a 120/240 volt 3 conductor, copper branch circuit rated to 30 amps, within 3 
feet from the water heater and accessible to the water heater with no obstructions. In 
addition, all of the following:
A. Both ends of the unused conductor shall be labeled with the word “spare” 
and be electrically isolated; and
B. A reserved single pole circuit breaker space in the electrical panel adjacent to 
the circuit breaker for the branch circuit in A above and labeled with the words 
“Future 240V Use”;
2. A condensate drain that is no more than 2 inches higher than the base of 
the installed water heater, and allows natural draining without pump 
assistance,
3. The construction drawings shall indicate the location of the future heat pump water 
heater. The reserved location shall have minimum interior dimensions of 39”x39”x96”.
71 of 426

--- page 72 ---
4. A ventilation method meeting one of the following:
A. The designed space reserved for the future heat pump water heater shall 
have a minimum volume of 700 cubic feet; or
B. The designed space reserved for the future heat pump water 
heater shall vent to a communicating space in the same pressure 
boundary via permanent openings with a minimum total net free 
area of 250 square inches so that the total combined volume 
connected via permanent openings is 700 cu. ft. or larger. The 
permanent openings shall be:
i. Fully louvered doors with fixed louvers consisting of a single layer of 
fixed flat slats; or
ii. Two permanent fixed openings, consisting of a single layer of fixed 
flat slat louvers or grilles, one commencing within 12 inches from the 
top of the enclosure and one commencing within 12 inches from the 
bottom of the enclosure.
C. The designed space reserved for the future heat pump water heater shall 
include two 8” capped ducts, venting to the building exterior:
i. All ducts, connections and building penetrations shall be sealed.
ii. Exhaust air ducts and all ducts which cross pressure boundaries shall 
be insulated to a minimum insulation level of R-6.
iii. Airflow from termination points shall be diverted away from each 
other.
(e) Central Heat Pump Water Heater Electric Ready. Central water heating systems using gas or 
propane to serve multiple dwelling units shall include the following:
1. The system input capacity of the gas or propane water heating system shall be 
determined as the sum of the input gas or propane capacity of all water heating devices 
associated with each gas or propane water heating system.
2. Space reserved shall include:
A. Heat Pump. The minimum space reserved shall include space for service 
clearances and air flow clearances and shall meet one of the following: 
i. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is less 
than 200,000 BTU per hour, the minimum space reserved for the heat 
pump shall be 2.0 square feet per input 10,000 BTU per hour of the gas 
72 of 426

--- page 73 ---
or propane water heating system, and the minimum linear dimension of 
the space reserved shall be 48 linear inches.
ii. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is greater 
than or equal to 200,000 BTU per hour, the minimum space reserved for 
the heat pump shall be 3.6 square feet per input 10,000 BTU per hour 
the gas or propane water heating system, and the minimum linear 
dimension of the space reserved shall be 84 linear inches.
iii. The space reserved shall be the space required for a heat pump 
water heater system that meets the total building hot water demand as 
calculated and documented by the responsible person associated with 
the project.
B. Tanks. The minimum space reserved shall include space for service clearances 
and shall meet one of the following:
i. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is less 
than 200,000 BTU per hour, the minimum space reserved for the 
storage and temperature maintenance tanks shall be 4.4 square feet per 
input 10,000 BTU per hour of the gas or propane water heating system.
ii. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is greater 
than or equal to 200,000 BTU per hour, the minimum physical space 
reserved for the storage and temperature maintenance tanks shall be 
3.1 square feet per input 10,000 BTU per hour of the gas or propane 
water heating system.
iii. The space reserved shall be the space required for a heat pump 
water heater system that meets the total building hot water demand as 
calculated and documented by the responsible person associated with 
the project.
3. Ventilation shall be provided by meeting one of the following:
A. Physical space reserved for the heat pump shall be located outside, or
B. A pathway shall be reserved for future routing of supply and exhaust air via 
ductwork from the reserved heat pump location to an appropriate outdoor 
location. Penetrations through the building envelope for louvers and ducts shall 
be planned and identified for future use. The reserved pathway and 
penetrations through the building envelope shall be sized to meet one of the 
following:
i. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is less 
than 200,000 BTU per hour, the minimum air flow rate shall be 70 CFM 
73 of 426

--- page 74 ---
per input 10,000 BTU per hour of the gas or propane water heating 
system and the total external static pressure drop of ductwork and 
louvers shall not exceed 0.17 inch when the future heat pump water 
heater is installed.
ii. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is greater 
than or equal to 200,000 BTU per hour, the minimum air flow rate shall 
be 420 CFM per input 10,000 BTU per hour of the gas or propane water 
heating system and the total external static pressure drop of ductwork 
and louvers shall not exceed 0.17 inch when the future heat pump 
water heater is installed.
iii. The reserved pathway and penetrations shall be sized to serve a heat 
pump water heater system that meets the total building hot water 
demand as calculated and documented by the responsible person 
associated with the project.
4. Condensate drainage piping. An approved receptacle that is sized in accordance with 
the California Plumbing Code to receive the condensate drainage shall be installed 
within 3 feet of the reserved heat pump location, or piping shall be installed from within 
3 feet of the reserved heat pump location to an approved discharge location that is 
sized in accordance with the California Plumbing Code, and meets one of the following:
A. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is less than 
200,000 BTU per hour, condensate drainage shall be sized for 0.2 tons of 
refrigeration capacity per input 10,000 BTU per hour.
B. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is greater than or 
equal to 200,000 BTU per hour, condensate drainage shall be sized for 0.7 tons 
of refrigeration capacity per input 10,000 BTU per hour.
C. Condensate drainage shall be sized to serve a heat pump water heater system 
that meets the total building hot water demand as calculated and documented 
by the responsible person associated with the project.
5. Electrical.
A. Physical space shall be reserved on the bus system of the main switchboard 
or on the bus system of a distribution board to serve the future heat pump 
water heater system including the heat pump and temperature maintenance 
tanks. In addition, the physical space reserved shall be capable of providing 
adequate power to the future heat pump water heater as follows:
i. Heat Pump. For the Heat Pump, the physical space reserved shall 
comply with one of the following:
74 of 426

--- page 75 ---
a. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is 
less than 200,000 BTU per hour, provide 0.1 kVA per input 
10,000 BTU per hour.
b. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system 
is greater than or equal to 200,000 BTU per hour, provide 1.1 
kVA per input 10,000 BTU per hour.
c. The physical space reserved supplies sufficient electrical 
power required to power a heat pump water heater system that 
meets the total building hot water demand as calculated and 
documented by the responsible person associated with the 
project.
ii. Temperature Maintenance Tank. For the Temperature Maintenance 
Tank, the physical space reserved shall comply with one of the 
following:
a. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is 
less than 200,000 BTU per hour, provide 1.0 kVA per input 
10,000 BTU per hour.
b. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system 
is greater than or equal to 200,000 BTU per hour, provide 0.6 
kVA per input 10,000 BTU per hour.
c. The physical space reserved supplies sufficient electrical 
power required to power a heat pump water heater system that 
meets the total building hot water demand as calculated and 
documented by the responsible person associated with the 
project. 
(f) The building electrical system shall be sized to meet the future electric requirements of the 
electric ready equipment specified in sections 160.9(a) through (e). To meet this requirement 
the building main service conduit, the electrical system to the point specified in each subsection, 
and any on-site distribution transformers shall have sufficient capacity to supply full rated 
amperage at each electric ready appliance in accordance with the California Electric Code.
(c) Energy Code Section 170.1 “Performance Approach” is amended to read as follows:
A building complies with the performance approach if the TDV energy budget calculated for the 
proposed design building under Subsection (b) is no greater than the TDV energy budget 
calculated for the Standard Design Building under Subsection (a). Additionally,
75 of 426

--- page 76 ---
1. The energy budget, expressed in terms of source energy, of a newly constructed low-
rise multifamily building (three habitable stories or less) shall be at least 10 percent 
lower than that of the Standard Design Building.
2. Newly Constructed high-rise multifamily buildings (greater than four habitable 
stories) shall be at least 4 percent lower than that of the Standard Design Building.
(d) Energy Code subsections 170.1(a)-(d) are adopted without amendments.
Section 5. Section 23.70.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
23.70.060 Repealed
Section 6. Section 23.70.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
23.70.070 Repealed
Section 7. Section 23.70.080 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.70.080 Local Amendment Regarding Electrification Requirements for Existing Residential Buildings
(a) Green Building Code Section 4.106 "Site Development" is amended and to include new subsections 
as follows:
4.106.5.3 Existing one- and two-family dwellings.
4.106.5.3.1 Reserved.
4.106.5.3.2 Reserved.
4.106.5.3.3 Kitchen alterations shall include a 240v, 50 ampere circuit and receptacle installed within 3 
feet of the cooktop, oven, and/or range location.
4.106.5.3.4 Alterations to areas designated for the installation of laundry equipment shall include a 
240v, 30 ampere circuit and receptacle installed within 3 feet of clothes drying appliance location.
4.106.5.4 Existing residential buildings.
4.106.5.4.1 Alterations or additions that involve or require an increase to the capacity of electrical 
panels or transformers as part of the scope, the electrical panel shall include reserved physical space for 
overcurrent protection devices, and transformers shall include reserved electrical capacity, as calculated per 
California Electric Code Section 220 for the following current or proposed appliances, as applicable to the project 
site, that will not be connected to fuel gas infrastructure:
1. Electric water heaters meeting the requirements of the California Energy Code.
76 of 426

--- page 77 ---
2. Electric space heater and air-conditioner meeting the requirements of the California Energy 
Code.
3. Electric pool and/or spa water heater.
4. Electric clothes dryer.
5. Electric cooking equipment.
6. Electric vehicle charger
Exceptions:
1. Buss bar electrical capacity shall not be required to exceed the proposed utility 
electrical service to the building. Capacity and overcurrent protection spaces shall be reserved in 
the priority listed above to the extent allowable under the proposed buss bar capacity.
2. Reserved electric vehicle charger panel capacity may be shared with one of the 
following: water heater, clothes dryer, or cooking equipment.
3. Electrical panels with internet-connected overcurrent protection devices that monitor 
circuit load and manage power distribution.
Section 8. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15308, this action to adopt reach codes and amend the Energy Code and Green Building 
Code is categorically exempt from CEQA as an action by a regulatory agency for the protection of the 
environment, because reach codes are intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Section 9. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 10. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 11. Legislative History and Effective Date. This Ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
77 of 426

--- page 78 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-9811
File ID: 25-9559
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
January 21, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Parks and Recreation — Classification Updates 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the revised job specifications for the Landscape Laborer and Landscape Maintenance 
Worker I/II to reflect a flexible staffed series pursuant to the recent MOU agreement. 
BACKGROUND:
On October 7, 2024, the City Council approved a new memorandum of understanding (MOU) with SEIU which included 
language updating the Landscape Laborer classification to become part of the Landscape Maintenance Worker I/II 
classification series. This change allows for more efficient staffing and growth opportunities. Approving this change to the 
job specifications will allow the implementation of the approved updates. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The consolidation of the Landscape Laborer with the Landscape Maintenance Worker I/II positions into one flexibly classed 
position was included in the 2024-25 adopted budget so this will have no fiscal impact. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This classification update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve 
any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 —Proposed Resolution
              Exhibit A —Job Specification Landscape Laborer and Landscape Maintenance Worker I/II
Att 2 — Job Specification with Tracked Changes
STAFF CONTACT
Lourdes Coles, Senior Human Resources Analyst
lcoles@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7264
78 of 426

--- page 79 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. __ (2025)
APPROVING THE CLASSIFICATION UPDATES IN THE PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
WHEREAS, pursuant to the San Mateo Municipal Code Section 2.57.030(d), approval of new 
classifications and related job specifications, salary schedules, compensation changes, elimination or 
reinstatement of positions, reallocation of positions, reclassifications, and revisions of job specifications 
must be approved by City Council Resolution; and
WHEREAS, the proposed changes as detailed below reflect the new Memorandum of 
Understanding (MOU) with SEIU which included language updating the Landscape Laborer classification 
to become part of the Landscape Maintenance Worker I/II classification series. This change allows for 
more efficient staffing and growth opportunities; and
WHEREAS, the proposed job specifications for the classifications of Landscape Laborer and 
Landscape Maintenance Worker I/II are attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated by reference; and
WHEREAS, the employee associations representing the impacted classifications have been 
informed of the classification updates and have not brought forth any objections or concerns.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
RESOLVES that: 
1.
The classification updates are not subject to California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3)) because it can be seen with certainty that they will not 
cause a physical change in the environment; and
2.
The job specification for the classifications of Landscape Laborer and Landscape 
Maintenance Worker I/II attached hereto as Exhibit A are approved.
79 of 426

--- page 80 ---
Exhibit A
LANDSCAPE LABORER
LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE WORKER I/II
DEFINITION
Under supervision, performs a variety of skilled gardening and landscape maintenance duties 
associated with the development, repair, and maintenance of public landscaped areas.  Operates a 
wide variety of park and/or golf course equipment; may operate various mowing equipment to 
cut a variety of turfgrass areas throughout the City; and to perform related work as required.
Landscape Laborers and Landscape Maintenance Workers I/II are found in the Parks and Golf 
Course Divisions of the Parks and Recreation Department.  Incumbents in these classifications 
may work individually on occasion, but primarily in combination with other Landscape 
Maintenance Workers and Landscape Laborers as a crew assigned to specific gardening and 
maintenance projects in City parks, municipal golf course, athletic fields, or other City facilities. 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS
Landscape Laborer - This is the entry level class in the Landscape Maintenance Worker class 
series.  This position must be adaptive and work well with others.  The laborer will be the 
primary position for all manual tasks.  The individual must have good work habits and display 
good judgment and be able to work safely.  The position must demonstrate the ability to operate 
a full range of hand tools and light engine equipment or acquire the skills after training.
Landscape Maintenance Worker I - This is the mid-level class in the Landscape Maintenance 
Worker class series.  The positions in this class will normally perform most of the duties required 
of the Landscape Maintenance Worker I and II. However, as compared to the Landscape 
Maintenance Worker II, they are not expected to function at the same skill level and will 
normally exercise less discretion and judgment on matters related to work procedures and 
methods.  Work is usually supervised while in progress and fits a pattern which has been 
established and explained before the work is started.  Generally, changes in procedures or 
exceptions are explained in detail as they arise. Work assignments vary depending upon the 
function to which individuals are assigned and periodic work assignment transfers occur both for 
training purposes and to meet departmental staffing and work productivity requirements.
Landscape Maintenance Worker II - This is the journey level class in the Landscape 
Maintenance Worker series.  Positions in this class are flexibly staffed and are normally filled by 
advancement from the Landscape Maintenance Worker I class, or when filled from the outside, 
require prior experience in the maintenance of landscaped areas.  Appointment to the higher 
class requires that the employee be performing substantially the full range of duties for the class 
and meet the qualification standards for the class.  All positions assigned to the class require the 
80 of 426

--- page 81 ---
ability to work independently, exercising judgment and initiative.  For positions assigned to the 
golf course and landscape mowing crews, the demonstrated ability to operate the full range of 
park equipment normally utilized by the City in a safe, efficient and proper manner is a 
prerequisite for being assigned to the class.  Work assignments vary depending upon the function 
to which individuals are assigned and periodic work assignment transfers occur both for training 
purposes and to meet departmental staffing and work productivity requirements.
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED
Receives general supervision from the Senior Park Landscape Maintenance Worker or Golf 
Course Maintenance Supervisor.  Technical or functional supervision may also be provided by 
higher-level department personnel.  May provide supervision for seasonal (per diem) workers.
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES - Depending upon assignment, duties may include, but are not 
limited to, the following:
Landscape Maintenance/Horticulture
Maintains grounds and plantings in City parks, recreation facilities, playground areas, municipal 
building grounds, and street median islands 
Maintains designated landscape effects through mowing, edging, pruning, weeding, fertilizing, 
cultivating, planting lawns, shrubs, ground cover, trees, and flowerbeds. 
Picks up, cleans and removes debris and trash from walkways, picnic areas, play areas, 
restrooms, parking lots, drainage ditches and culverts. 
Performs minor routine maintenance and repair on sprinklers and irrigation equipment. 
Operates various power mowers, edgers, line trimmers, backpack blowers, sprayers, chain saws, 
aerators and other power equipment.
Assists in the mixing and applications of various pesticides, including herbicides.
Drive vehicles used to transport materials, tools, and equipment as required.
Assists in installation, minor repair and maintenance of parks and recreation playground 
equipment or furniture.
Work cooperatively and effectively with co-workers.
Respond to inquiries from the public.
Fully utilize the computerized work systems in accordance with workflow processes.
Work alone or as a member of a crew.
81 of 426

--- page 82 ---
Landscape Maintenance/Equipment Operation
Maintain and prepare athletic fields including dragging and watering baseball diamonds.
Operate complex mowing equipment; operate trucks, tractors, front end loaders, spray rigs, 
trenchers, and utilize a variety of hand and power tools in park maintenance work.
Fully utilize the computerized work systems in accordance with workflow processes.
Work alone or as a member of a crew.
Drive vehicles used to transport materials, tools and equipment as required.
Aerify, fertilize, seed and top-dress athletic fields, and other associated turfgrass areas.
Assist in the mixing and application of various pesticides, including herbicides
Work cooperatively and effectively with co-workers.
Perform routine preventative maintenance on mowing equipment and hand and power tools used 
in the course of work.
Performs minor routine maintenance and repair on sprinklers and irrigation equipment.
Landscape Maintenance/Golf Course
Perform routine preventive maintenance on mowing and hand and power tools used in the course 
of work.
Install, clean and rake sand traps.
Mow and trim tees and greens.
Assist in the construction, renovation, and maintenance of fairways, tees, sand traps, greens and 
other landscaped areas.
Apply pesticides and fertilizers to turf areas.
Aerify, fertilize, seed and top-dress greens complexes, and other associated turfgrass areas.
Perform routine maintenance on sprinklers and irrigation equipment.
Assist with irrigation repairs on main lines, lateral lines, valves, and heads under supervision 
from the Irrigation Specialist.
82 of 426

--- page 83 ---
Assist with small equipment maintenance or repairs under supervision. 
Fully utilize the computerized work systems in accordance with workflow processes.
Water, weed, trim, renovate, fertilize and perform mowing of golf course.
Respond to inquiries from the public.
Drive vehicles to transport materials, tools, and equipment as required.
Work alone or as a member of a crew.
Work cooperatively and effectively with co-workers.
If assigned to the golf course, golf course setup procedures including but not limited to: cup 
cutting, proper pin location movement, dew removal and tee marker placement. 
If assigned to the golf course, perform routine maintenance on greens, fairways and tees. 
Early mornings and rotational weekend and holiday scheduling are required.
QUALIFICATIONS
Landscape Laborer
Knowledge of:
Basic methods, tools, materials, and equipment used in grounds maintenance work.
Safe work practices.
Basic construction and repair methods.
Ability to:
Perform semi-skilled, heavy manual landscape work.
Learn to safely operate the full range of light equipment utilized in landscape 
maintenance work, as assigned.
Use computers and handheld electronic devices in the course of work.
Work cooperatively and effectively with co-workers and provide general assistance to the 
public.
Ability to work weekends and holidays as required.
83 of 426

--- page 84 ---
Successful applicant must pass a physical and background check prior to starting in the 
position.
Experience and Education:
Any combination equivalent to experience and training that could likely provide the required 
knowledge and abilities would be qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and 
abilities would be:
Experience:
Six months of experience performing a variety of horticultural maintenance work.
Education:
Completion of high school or equivalent.
Landscape Maintenance Worker I
Knowledge of:
Basic methods, tools, materials, and equipment used in grounds maintenance work.
Safe work practices.
Knowledge of plant materials common in area and their care.
Basic construction and repair methods.
The basic operation of mowing equipment utilized by the City.
For employees assigned to the golf course, a basic knowledge of the game of golf is 
desirable.
Ability to:
Perform semi-skilled landscape and golf course maintenance work.
 
Learn to safely operate the full range of light and heavy equipment utilized in golf and 
landscape maintenance work.
Use computers and handheld electronic devices in the course of work.
Learn to mix and apply herbicides.
Perform heavy manual labor.
84 of 426

--- page 85 ---
Work cooperatively and effectively with co-workers and provide general assistance to the 
public.
Ability to work weekends and holidays as required.
Experience and Education
Any combination equivalent to experience and education that could likely provide the required 
knowledge and abilities would be qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and 
abilities 
would be:
Experience:
One year of experience performing a variety of horticultural and/or golf course 
maintenance 
work.
Education:
Completion of high school or equivalent
Landscape Maintenance Worker II
In addition to the qualifications for Landscape Maintenance Worker I:
Knowledge of:
Plant and turf pests and diseases and methods for the control and eradication.
An advanced knowledge of plant materials and the care required to properly maintain 
them.
Proper, safe, and effective use of landscape maintenance tools, equipment and materials.
If assigned to turf mowing work, the operational characteristics of the full range of 
mowing 
equipment utilized by the City.
For employees assigned to the golf course, a basic knowledge of the game of golf is 
desirable.
Ability to:
Perform skilled landscape and golf course maintenance work.
85 of 426

--- page 86 ---
Operate the full range of light and heavy equipment utilized in golf and landscape 
maintenance work.
Use computers and handheld electronic devices in the course of work.
Work cooperatively and effectively with co-workers.
Ability to work weekends and holidays as required.
Experience and Education:
Any combination of experience and education equivalent to that of a Landscape Maintenance 
Worker I, which likely provides the required knowledge and abilities, would be considered 
qualifying. A typical way to obtain the necessary knowledge and abilities includes:
One year of experience performing duties comparable to those of a Landscape 
Maintenance Worker I with the City of San Mateo.
LICENSE AND CERTIFICATE 
Possession of, or ability to obtain, a valid California Class C driver’s license and good driving 
record. 
ADA Special Requirement:
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment:
Ability to sit, stand, walk, kneel, crouch, squat, stoop, reach, twist, and lift 80 pounds; exposure 
to cold, heat, outdoors, chemicals, dust and mechanical hazards. 
ADOPTED CC: 
3-01-81, 10-06-86
REVISED CC: 
6-21-99, 8-21.17, 2-18-20, 1-21-25
FORMER TITLES: 
BARGAINING UNIT:
SEIU MAINTENANCE UNIT
FLSA:
NON EXEMPT
DOT:
NO
PRE APPT MEDICAL:
YES
SAFETY SENSITIVE:
NO
REQUIRED HARASSMENT PREVENTION TRAINING:  NON-SUPERVISORY
FORM 700:
NO
JOB CODES:
LANDSCAPE LABORER - 6171
LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE WORKER II – 6071
LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE WORKER II – 6060
ABOLISHED:
86 of 426

--- page 87 ---
LANDSCAPE LABORER
LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE WORKER I/II
DEFINITION
Under supervision, performs a variety of skilled gardening and landscape maintenance duties 
associated with the development, repair, and maintenance of public landscaped areas.  Operates a wide 
variety of park and/or golf course equipment; may operate various mowing equipment to cut a variety 
of turfgrass areas throughout the City; and to perform related work as required.
Landscape Laborers and Landscape Maintenance Workers I/II are found in the Parks and Golf Course 
Divisions of the Parks and Recreation Department.  Incumbents in these classifications may work 
individually on occasion, but primarily in combination with other Landscape Maintenance Workers 
and Landscape Laborers as a crew assigned to specific gardening and maintenance projects in City 
parks, municipal golf course, athletic fields, or other City facilities. 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS
Landscape Laborer - This is the entry level class in the Landscape Maintenance Worker class series.  
This position must be adaptive and work well with others.  The laborer will be the primary position for 
all manual tasks.  The individual must have good work habits and display good judgment and be able 
to work safely.  The position must demonstrate the ability to operate a full range of hand tools and light 
engine equipment or acquire the skills after training.
Landscape Maintenance Worker I - This is the mid-level class in the Landscape Maintenance 
Worker class series.  The positions in this class will normally perform most of the duties required of 
the Landscape Maintenance Worker I and II. However, as compared to the Landscape Maintenance 
Worker II, they are not expected to function at the same skill level and will normally exercise less 
discretion and judgment on matters related to work procedures and methods.  Work is usually 
supervised while in progress and fits a pattern which has been established and explained before the 
work is started.  Generally, changes in procedures or exceptions are explained in detail as they arise. 
Work assignments vary depending upon the function to which individuals are assigned and periodic 
work assignment transfers occur both for training purposes and to meet departmental staffing and work 
productivity requirements.
Landscape Maintenance Worker II - This is the journey level class in the Landscape Maintenance 
Worker series.  Positions in this class are flexibly staffed and are normally filled by advancement from 
the Landscape Maintenance Worker I class, or when filled from the outside, require prior experience in 
the maintenance of landscaped areas.  Appointment to the higher class requires that the employee be 
performing substantially the full range of duties for the class and meet the qualification standards for 
87 of 426

--- page 88 ---
the class.  All positions assigned to the class require the ability to work independently, exercising 
judgment and initiative.  For positions assigned to the golf course and landscape mowing crews, the 
demonstrated ability to operate the full range of park equipment normally utilized by the City in a safe, 
efficient and proper manner is a prerequisite for being assigned to the class.  Work assignments vary 
depending upon the function to which individuals are assigned and periodic work assignment transfers 
occur both for training purposes and to meet departmental staffing and work productivity requirements.
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED
Receives general supervision from the Senior Park Landscape Maintenance Worker or Golf Course 
Maintenance Supervisor.  Technical or functional supervision may also be provided by higher-level 
department personnel.  May provide supervision for seasonal (per diem) workers.
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES - Depending upon assignment, duties may include, but are not limited to, 
the following:
Landscape Maintenance/Horticulture
Maintains grounds and plantings in City parks, recreation facilities, playground areas, municipal 
building grounds, and street median islands 
Maintains designated landscape effects through mowing, edging, pruning, weeding, fertilizing, 
cultivating, planting lawns, shrubs, ground cover, trees, and flowerbeds. 
Picks up, cleans and removes debris and trash from walkways, picnic areas, play areas, restrooms, 
parking lots, drainage ditches and culverts. 
Performs minor routine maintenance and repair on sprinklers and irrigation equipment. 
Operates various power mowers, edgers, line trimmers, backpack blowers, sprayers, chain saws, 
aerators and other power equipment.
Assists in the mixing and applications of various pesticides, including herbicides.
Drive vehicles used to transport materials, tools, and equipment as required.
Assists in installation, minor repair and maintenance of parks and recreation playground equipment or 
furniture.
Work cooperatively and effectively with co-workers.
Respond to inquiries from the public.
Fully utilize the computerized work systems in accordance with workflow processes.
Work alone or as a member of a crew.
88 of 426

--- page 89 ---
Landscape Maintenance/Equipment Operation
Maintain and prepare athletic fields including dragging and watering baseball diamonds.
Operate complex mowing equipment; operate trucks, tractors, front end loaders, spray rigs, trenchers, 
and utilize a variety of hand and power tools in park maintenance work.
Fully utilize the computerized work systems in accordance with workflow processes.
Work alone or as a member of a crew.
Drive vehicles used to transport materials, tools and equipment as required.
Aerify, fertilize, seed and top-dress athletic fields, and other associated turfgrass areas.
Assist in the mixing and application of various pesticides, including herbicides
Work cooperatively and effectively with co-workers.
Perform routine preventative maintenance on mowing equipment and hand and power tools used in the 
course of work.
Performs minor routine maintenance and repair on sprinklers and irrigation equipment.
Landscape Maintenance/Golf Course
Perform routine preventive maintenance on mowing and hand and power tools used in the course of 
work.
Install, clean and rake sand traps.
Mow and trim tees and greens.
Assist in the construction, renovation, and maintenance of fairways, tees, sand traps, greens and other 
landscaped areas.
Apply pesticides and fertilizers to turf areas.
Aerify, fertilize, seed and top-dress greens complexes, and other associated turfgrass areas.
Perform routine maintenance on sprinklers and irrigation equipment.
Assist with irrigation repairs on main lines, lateral lines, valves, and heads under supervision from the 
Irrigation Specialist.
89 of 426

--- page 90 ---
Assist with small equipment maintenance or repairs under supervision. 
Fully utilize the computerized work systems in accordance with workflow processes.
Water, weed, trim, renovate, fertilize and perform mowing of golf course.
Respond to inquiries from the public.
Drive vehicles to transport materials, tools, and equipment as required.
Work alone or as a member of a crew.
Work cooperatively and effectively with co-workers.
If assigned to the golf course, golf course setup procedures including but not limited to: cup cutting, 
proper pin location movement, dew removal and tee marker placement. 
If assigned to the golf course, perform routine maintenance on greens, fairways and tees. 
Early mornings and rotational weekend and holiday scheduling are required.
QUALIFICATIONS
Landscape Laborer
Knowledge of:
Basic methods, tools, materials, and equipment used in grounds maintenance work.
Safe work practices.
Basic construction and repair methods.
Ability to:
Perform semi-skilled, heavy manual landscape work.
Learn to safely operate the full range of light equipment utilized in landscape maintenance 
work, as assigned.
Use computers and handheld electronic devices in the course of work.
Work cooperatively and effectively with co-workers and provide general assistance to the 
public.
Ability to work weekends and holidays as required.
90 of 426

--- page 91 ---
Successful applicant must pass a physical and background check prior to starting in the 
position.
Experience and Education:
Any combination equivalent to experience and training that could likely provide the required 
knowledge and abilities would be qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities 
would be:
Experience:
Six months of experience performing a variety of horticultural maintenance work.
Education:
Completion of high school or equivalent.
Landscape Maintenance Worker I
Knowledge of:
Basic methods, tools, materials, and equipment used in grounds maintenance work.
Safe work practices.
Knowledge of plant materials common in area and their care.
Basic construction and repair methods.
The basic operation of mowing equipment utilized by the City.
For employees assigned to the golf course, a basic knowledge of the game of golf is desirable.
Ability to:
Perform semi-skilled landscape and golf course maintenance work.
 
Learn to safely operate the full range of light and heavy equipment utilized in golf and landscape 
maintenance work.
Use computers and handheld electronic devices in the course of work.
Learn to mix and apply herbicides.
Perform heavy manual labor.
91 of 426

--- page 92 ---
Work cooperatively and effectively with co-workers and provide general assistance to the 
public.
Ability to work weekends and holidays as required.
Experience and Education
Any combination equivalent to experience and education that could likely provide the required 
knowledge and abilities would be qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities 
would be:
Experience:
One year of experience performing a variety of horticultural and/or golf course maintenance 
work.
Education:
Completion of high school or equivalent
Landscape Maintenance Worker II
In addition to the qualifications for Landscape Maintenance Worker I:
Knowledge of:
Plant and turf pests and diseases and methods for the control and eradication.
An advanced knowledge of plant materials and the care required to properly maintain them.
Proper, safe, and effective use of landscape maintenance tools, equipment and materials.
If assigned to turf mowing work, the operational characteristics of the full range of mowing 
equipment utilized by the City.
For employees assigned to the golf course, a basic knowledge of the game of golf is desirable.
Ability to:
Perform skilled landscape and golf course maintenance work.
Operate the full range of light and heavy equipment utilized in golf and landscape 
maintenance work.
Use computers and handheld electronic devices in the course of work.
92 of 426

--- page 93 ---
Work cooperatively and effectively with co-workers.
Ability to work weekends and holidays as required.
Experience and Education:
Any combination of experience and education equivalent to that of a Landscape Maintenance Worker 
I, which likely provides the required knowledge and abilities, would be considered qualifying. A 
typical way to obtain the necessary knowledge and abilities includes:
One year of experience performing duties comparable to those of a Landscape Maintenance 
Worker I with the City of San Mateo.
LICENSE AND CERTIFICATE 
Possession of, or ability to obtain, a valid California Class C driver’s license and good driving record. 
ADA Special Requirement:
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment:
Ability to sit, stand, walk, kneel, crouch, squat, stoop, reach, twist, and lift 80 pounds; exposure to 
cold, heat, outdoors, chemicals, dust and mechanical hazards. 
ADOPTED CC: 
3-01-81, 10-06-86
REVISED CC: 
6-21-99, 8-21.17, 2-18-20
FORMER TITLES: 
BARGAINING UNIT:
SEIU MAINTENANCE UNIT
FLSA:
NON EXEMPT
DOT:
NO
PRE APPT MEDICAL:
YES
SAFETY SENSITIVE:
NO
REQUIRED HARASSMENT PREVENTION TRAINING:  NON-SUPERVISORY
FORM 700:
NO
JOB CODES:
LNDCP MAINT WORKER I – 6071, LNDCP MAINT WORKER II – 6060
ABOLISHED:
93 of 426

--- page 94 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO City Hall

330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org

Agenda Report

Agenda Number: {{item.number}} Section Name: {{section.name}: Account Number: 25-3112 File ID: {{item.tracking_number}}
TO: City Council
FROM: Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY: Community Development Department
MEETING DATE: January 21, 2025
SUBJECT:

Historic Policy Update Effort Professional Services — Appropriation and Agreement

RECOMMENDATION:

Review and provide direction on historic preservation policies, including: the adoption of a Resolution to appropriate
$328,743 (Option 1) or $394,450 (Option 2) from the Advance Planning Fund to the Historic Policy Update project, with
each option corresponding to a different project schedule; and approve an agreement with Rincon Consultants for
community outreach and technical support related to historic policy and code amendments; and authorize the City
Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and to revise it as needed based on the selected
option.

BACKGROUND:

The Proposed Resolution to appropriate funds from the Advance Planning Fund to the Historic Policy Update project, if
Option 1 or Option 2 are selected, it is included as Attachment 1, and the professional services agreement with Rincon
Consultants to provide community outreach, historic policy and code amendment technical support is included as
Attachment 2.

General Plan 2040

San Mateo’s General Plan 2040, which was adopted by the City Council on March 18, 2024, sets the policy framework for
how issues such as historic resources and preservation should be addressed. The Community Design and Historic
Resources Element addresses the topic of historic and cultural resources, and includes goals, policies, and actions that
outline the framework for how the City should approach historic resources and preservation. Specifically, Goal CD-5
speaks to preserving the historic and culturally important resources to maintain San Mateo’s special identity and
continuity with the past and includes seven policies and six actions to support achievement of this goal (Attachment 3).

During the adoption process for General Plan 2040, the topic of historic resource preservation generated significant
community interest and comments; with the historic related policies and actions based around this community input and
the final versions based on Council direction. In addition, in the fall 2023, a historic district designation application for the
Baywood Neighborhood was submitted to the State Office of Historic Preservation by the San Mateo Heritage Alliance.
This application resulted in significant community discussions surrounding establishing historic districts, how the
designations are approved at the State and local levels, and questions about the potential impacts of an application and a
subsequent designation on properties within the district. To address questions about the State and local historic review
processes and how historic districts are established, Planning Division staff, with support from historic consultant
Architectural Resources Group (ARG), conducted a community informational meeting (link:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mICAKmxT3w8&t=6s) in February 2024. The City’s Historic Resources webpage (link
here -https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4775/Historic-Resources) was also updated to provide FAQs related to the historic
district designation process, the City’s permitting process for potential historic resources, and information on how the

CITY OF SAN MATEO
94 of 426


--- page 95 ---
95 of 426

--- page 96 ---
96 of 426

--- page 97 ---
97 of 426

--- page 98 ---
98 of 426

--- page 99 ---
99 of 426

--- page 100 ---
100 of 426

--- page 101 ---
101 of 426

--- page 102 ---
102 of 426

--- page 103 ---
103 of 426

--- page 104 ---
104 of 426

--- page 105 ---
105 of 426

--- page 106 ---
106 of 426

--- page 107 ---
107 of 426

--- page 108 ---
108 of 426

--- page 109 ---
109 of 426

--- page 110 ---
110 of 426

--- page 111 ---
111 of 426

--- page 112 ---
112 of 426

--- page 113 ---
113 of 426

--- page 114 ---
114 of 426

--- page 115 ---
115 of 426

--- page 116 ---
116 of 426

--- page 117 ---
117 of 426

--- page 118 ---
Chapter 5

Community Design and Historic Resources Element

GOALS, POLICIES, AND ACTIONS

GOAL CD-5

Preserve historic and culturally important resources to maintain San Mateo’s

special identity and continuity with the past.

POLICIES

Policy CD 5.1

Policy CD 5.2

Policy CD 5.3

oS Policy CD 5.4

Policy CD 5.5

Policy CD 5.6

Comprehensive Approach to Historic Preservation. Implement a comprehensive
approach to historic preservation based on community input and best practices from
State and federal agencies, to find an appropriate balance between preservation with
other important priorities, such as affordable housing production and supporting local
businesses.

Historic Preservation. Actively identify and preserve historic resources and concentrations
of historic resources which convey the flavor of local historical periods, are culturally
significant, or provide an atmosphere of exceptional architectural interest or integrity,
as feasible, when they meet national, State, or local criteria. Historic resources include
individual properties, districts, and sites that maintain San Mateo’s sense of place and
special identity, and enrich our unde’standing of the city’s history and continuity with the
past.

Historic Resources Definition. Define historic resources as buildings, structures, sites, and
districts that are listed in or determined to be eligible for listing in the National Register
of Historic Places and/or California Register of Historical Resources, designated resources
in the 1989 Historic Building Survey Report, and resources found to be eligible through
documentation in a historic resources report.

Public Awareness. Foster public awareness and appreciation of the City’s historic resources
and educate the community about how to preserve and improve these resources. Increase
public appreciation by supporting groups and organizations that provide neighborhood
workshops, public presentations, interpretive signage, and walking tours.

Historic Resources Renovation and Rehabilitation. Promote the renovation and
rehabilitation of historic resources thet conforms to the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards
for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Structures and the California
Historical Building Code and prioritize historic structures for available rehabilitation funds.

Historic Preservation Funding. Pursue and promote historic preservation funding sources
to incentivize the protection of historic resources, such as the California Mills Act Property
Tax Abatement Program, Federal and State Historic Preservation Tax Incentives Program,
and State Historic Rehabilitation Tax Credit Program.

General Plan 2040


--- page 119 ---
Chapter 5

Policy CD 5.7

ACTIONS

Community Design and Historic Resources Element

Demolition Alternatives. Require anapplicant to submit alternatives to preserve a historic
resource as part of any planning application that proposes full demolition. Implement
preservation methods unless health and safety requirements cannot be met or the City
Council makes a finding explaining the specific reasons why the social, economic, legal,
technical, or other beneficial aspects of the proposed demolition outweigh the unavoidable
adverse impacts to the historic resource. If a designated historic resource cannot be
preserved, require City approval before the demolition of a historic resource.

Action CD 5.8

Action CD 5.9

Action CD 5.10

Action CD 5.11

Action CD 5.12

Action CD 5.13

Historic Preservation Ordinance. Update the City’s Historic Preservation Ordinance to
create a framework for the designation of historic resources and districts, establish review
and permitting procedures for historic alterations, demolitions or relocations, be consistent
with federal and State standards andguidelines, and align with the other goals and policies
outlined in this Element.

Historic Resources Context Statements. Prepare a citywide historic context statement
to guide future historic resource survey efforts to identify individually eligible resources
and historic districts. If a neighborhcod is identified as a historic district, prepare a more
detailed historic context statement for that individual neighborhood.

Historic Resources Survey. Establish and maintain an inventory of architecturally, culturally,
and historically significant buildings, structures, sites, and districts. Proactively maintain
an up-to-date historic resources inventory by seeking funding opportunities to update
the historic survey. Prepare neighborhood-specific historic context statements prior to
updating the historic resources survey.

Preservation Incentives. Explore the option to create incentives to preserve historic and
cultural resources, such as reducing parking and other prescriptive requirements, allowing
adaptive reuse, or establishing a transfer of development rights program.

Historic Resources Design Standards. Create objective design standards for alterations to
historic resources and contributors to a designated historic district, and new development
adjacent to historic resources within historic districts. Use the Secretary of the Interior’s
Standards as the basis for these objective design standards to ensure projects have a
contextual relationship with land usesand patterns; spatial organization; visual relationships;
cultural and historic values; and the height, massing, design, and materials of historic
resources.

Certified Local Government. Explore the feasibility of becoming a Certified Local
Government (CLG) to become eligible for federal grant funds and technical assistance in
support of historic resource preservetion efforts.

General Plan 2040



--- page 120 ---
City of San Mateo
Request for Proposals for
Historic Preservation Services

Prepared by the Community Development Department
330 W. 20" Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

RPF Issued: August 13, 2024 RFP Contents:
Deadline for Submittals: 5:00 p.m. Friday, | Introduction and Overview
September 13, 2024 Objectives

Scope of Services
Mininum Qualifications
Submit Proposals via email to: Compensation
Tara Peterson, Special Projects Submittal Requirements
tpeterson@cityofsanmateo.org Selection Process
Questions and Inquiries
Attachment List

120 of 426


--- page 121 ---
121 of 426

--- page 122 ---
122 of 426

--- page 123 ---
123 of 426

--- page 124 ---
124 of 426

--- page 125 ---
125 of 426

--- page 126 ---
126 of 426

--- page 127 ---
127 of 426

--- page 128 ---
128 of 426

--- page 129 ---
129 of 426

--- page 130 ---
130 of 426

--- page 131 ---
ght hp SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
Se

January 16, 2025

City Council

City of San Mateo
330 W. 20% Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

SUBJECT: Support for Context Study and Historic Preservation Ordinance Update

Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council Members:

The San Mateo Heritage Alliance strongly urges the approval of the proposed scope of work to prepare
a context study and to update our historic preservation ordinance. The current ordinance, dating back
to 1993, and the outdated 1989 Historic Building Survey are no longer sufficient to meet the demands of
our growing city while preserving its rich historical legacy.

The Importance of a Context Study

Economic and Efficient: A context study is far more cost-effective than a detailed survey of
each historic property, providing a broad understanding of our city's historical assets at a
fraction of the cost.

Framework for Preservation: It will lay down the groundwork necessary for a citywide historic
resources understanding, informing not just preservation but also future development.

Policy Informed by Study: The study will directly influence the updating of our preservation
policies and ordinance, ensuring they reflect the current state and significance of our historical
resources.

Strategic Planning: By understanding the type, quantity, and location of our historic resources,
we can make informed decisions that balance growth with preservation.

The Necessity to Update the Historic Preservation Ordinance

Cultural and Economic Benefits: As noted in our current ordinance, preserving our history is
not just about nostalgia; it's crucial for enhancing our community’s economic, cultural, and
aesthetic value.

Criteria for Preservation: An updated ordinance will clearly define processes and criteria for
designating and protecting local historic districts, something missing in our current framework.
The current ordinance does not recognize or apply to the new Yoshiko Yamanouchi House
Historic District or the pending Baywood Historic District.

Legal Clarity and Protection: It will provide a robust legal framework to recognize, protect, and
manage historic resources, ensuring they are considered in development reviews.

www.smheritage.org
131 of 426


--- page 132 ---
City Council
January 16, 2025
Page 2

The Urgency of Action
e Time is of the Essence: Over three decades have passed since significant action was taken on
historic preservation in San Mateo. Delaying further will only increase costs and risks losing
more of our heritage.

e Resource Allocation: With budgets potentially tightening, acting now is prudent to leverage
existing funds for maximum impact.

Balancing Historic Preservation with Housing Needs
e Compatibility with Modern Needs: Historic properties and districts can accommodate modern
housing solutions like ADUs, expansions, and remodels, proving that preservation does not
hinder but can complement urban development.

e Selective Designation: The criteria for historic designation are stringent, ensuring only truly
significant structures or neighborhoods are protected, thus not broadly impeding new housing
developments.

In conclusion, the time to act is now to safeguard San Mateo’s historical narrative while fostering
growth. Approving this scope of work will not only protect our past but also enrich our future. We
urge you to ignore the misinformation and support this initiative for the benefit of San Mateo's cultural
heritage and its residents.

Thank you for your consideration.

Sincerely,

Laurie Hietter
President
San Mateo Heritage Alliance

132 of 426


--- page 133 ---
Ok Outlook

Against Historic District Designations

From Paul Dagnelc <a

Date Wed 1/15/2025 1:02 PM

Dear San Mateo City Council,

As a resident of San Mateo, | ask that you reject the proposal to establish new historic districts in any
neighborhoods. San Mateo is a wonderful, vibrant city, but is suffering from serious housing
affordability issues. Historic districts will make it harder and more expensive to build new homes,
preventing us from making progress on this important issue.

At both the state and local level we have passed good housing laws, but historic districts would
undermine both those laws (including Measure T, which just passed by ballot proposal) and our
general plan. Please do not support any actions to establish more historical districts, and vote now on

the Historic consultant RFP. The priority for San Mateo should be increasing housing, not restricting it.

Thank you for your time,
Paul Dagnelie

about: blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane3

133 of 426

1/1


--- page 134 ---
loM Outlook

"Selling Off California’ Exposes Corporate YIMBYs’ Ties to Big Tech and Big Real Estate - Housing Is
A Human Right

Date Wed 1/15/2025 12:55 PM

To City Council (San Mateo) SS

Please read this.
Their attempt to frame historical districts or suburban neighborhoods as threats to housing is beyond the pale.

Prometheus and Greystar have been named in the RealPage lawsuit and are active in San Mateo.

Housing has become a get rich quick scheme for the investor class and it needs to stop.

They come and say we can't put parking in this development because it doesn’t pencil out, they build lowest first
cost buildings with zero care for design or beauty.

| am sorry, but YIMBY has no credibility as housing advocates. Ask the Housing Justice people.

| stand with them.

Thank you.

Tom Lease

-big-tech-and-big-

Sent from my iPhone

about: blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane1
134 of 426

1


--- page 135 ---
135 of 426

--- page 136 ---
lo M Outlook

Historic designations - OPPOSE

From Mandy Pederson
Date Wed 1/15/2025 9:32 AM

To City Council (San Matec) [a

Dear San Mateo city council,

Please reject the idea that we should establish new historic districts, in any neighborhoods. One of San
Mateo’s greatest liabilities is our high cost of living, and making it harder to build more homes will only
make it more expensive.

We have worked to pass good housing laws, both at the state and local levels, and a historic district
would undermine these laws, as well as our general plan and newly-minted Measure T. Please do not
support any actions to establish more historical districts. Vote no on the proposed Historic consultant
RFP. This is not a priority for San Mateo.

Thank you for the opportunity to comment.

Mandy Pederson

about: blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane2
136 of 426

1


--- page 137 ---
Ok Outlook

Historic designations - OPPOSE

From Stephanie Reyes >
Date Thu 1/16/2025 3:14 PM

To City Counc (San Matec) <

Dear San Mateo City Council,

Please reject the idea that we should establish new historic districts, in any neighborhoods. One of San
Mateo’s greatest liabilities is our high cost of living, and making it harder to build more homes will only
make it more expensive.

We have worked to pass good housing laws, both at the state and local levels, and a historic district
would undermine these laws, as well as our general plan and newly-minted Measure T. Please do not
support any actions to establish more historical districts. Vote no on the proposed Historic consultant
RFP, This is not a priority for San Mateo,

Thank you for the opportunity to comment.

Stephanie Reyes

about: blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane4
137 of 426

1/1


--- page 138 ---
lo M Outlook

Item 10 - Historic Designations Work - OPPOSE

From Nancy Schneider <j >
Date Thu 1/16/2025 4:23 PM

To City Council (San Mateo) <j >

Dear Members of the San Mateo City Council,

| am writing to you as a resident of San Mateo and a homeowner in the Baywood neighborhood. |
oppose the designation of Baywood as an historic district for a multitude of reasons, primarily that |
don't think the neighborhood should be exempt from policies to increase housing production in San
Mateo. Every neighborhood should do its part.

| acknowledge that this agenda item is not concerned with Baywood specifically, but about hiring the
consultant for the historic work and deciding on which option.

| urge you to pick Option 3 and not approve an appropriation Resolution or an agreement with
Rincon Consultants and vote not to
proceed with the historic policy update effort at this time. .

We have worked to pass good housing laws, both at the state and local levels, and a historic district
would undermine these laws, as well as our general plan and newly-minted Measure T. Please do not

support any actions to establish more historical districts.San Mateo has many more pressing concerns.

The money allocated for this project could be put to better use.
Thank you for the opportunity to provide my input.

Nancy Schneider

about: blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane4

138 of 426

1/1


--- page 139 ---
City of San Mateo
City Council Meeting

POST PACKET

PUBLIC COMMENT


--- page 140 ---
Outlook

Historic Preservation is NOT a Priority

From Alex Miller <j >

Date Mon 1/20/2025 1:10 AM

To RobNewsom (>: Adam Lorine (>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <>; Nicole Fernandez
<>; is 2 Diez Nosh <>; City Mor
<>; City Council (San Mateo) <j >; Clerk
st C(t

Dear City Council Members,

| am writing to strongly oppose the proposed $500,000 expenditure for historic preservation
consultants coming to vote on January 21st.

With a $10.6M deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure projects, this spending makes no sense.
Our Central Park Playground is closed, MLK Rec Center is in shambles, and other community facilities

are deteriorating.

This project, pushed by a preservationist special interest group, appears designed to block

development and create more red tape. Similar efforts in Baywood were opposed 9-to-1 by residents.

It would effectively undermine Measure T's housing progress and put huge burdens on homeowners
and eventually increase rental prices as well.

Please prioritize our critical infrastructure needs over creating new bureaucratic barriers. Our
community needs functional parks and facilities, not more development restrictions.

These historical preservation efforts do not reflect my priorities and | oppose them.

Sincerely,
-Alex

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane1

140 of 426

ata


--- page 141 ---
Outlook

Urgent Appeal: SAY NO to the $500K Historic RFP

From Adi Rathore <j >

Date Sun 1/19/2025 4:27 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki < dewirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org >; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,

| am writing regarding the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP. As a San Mateo resident, | have several
serious concerns:

Financial Impact:

* City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs

* $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities

* Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive initiative

Community Opposition & Consensus:

* In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting

« No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision

* City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority

Legal Concerns:

* JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format

* Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations

« Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or zoning changes

* Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede signing this RFP

Alternative Solution:

* Implement staff-driven community engagement process

* Focus on voluntary participation rather than mandatory impositions
* Develop consent-driven historic preservation ordinance

* Prioritize infrastructure benefiting all residents

| urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-driven alternative
that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
Adi Rathore

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane2 1
. 141 of 426


--- page 142 ---
a Strong Opposition to Wasteful Spending on Historic Preservation Consultants - TF
Ga Outlook

Strong Opposition to Wasteful Spending on Historic Preservation Consultants

From Jeffrey Bidzos it:
Date Sun 1/19/2025 7:11 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Members of the City Council,

As a long-time Baywood resident raising a family in San
Mateo, | strongly oppose the proposed $500,000 expenditure
for historic preservation consultants coming to vote on
January 21st.

For seven years, I've watched as our Central Park Playground
has deteriorated and the MLK Rec Center has fallen into
disrepair. Meanwhile, wealthy homeowners in Baywood pour
millions into renovating their mansions, while families like
mine, who have lived and contributed to this community for
years, are priced out of ever owning a home. It’s despicable
to see this council prioritize the interests of preservationist
special interests over the working class.

With a $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded
infrastructure projects, this spending is a slap in the face. This
proposal is nothing more than an effort to block
development, burden homeowners, and ultimately raise
rental prices. Similar efforts were opposed 9-to-1 in Baywood
for good reason—they do nothing to benefit our community.

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane4 1/2
142 of 426


--- page 143 ---
143 of 426

--- page 144 ---
21/01/2025, 10:37 NO to ‘Historic’ Survey RFP - F 4 Outlook
Qa Outlook

NO to ‘Historic’ Survey RFP

From Sue Blockstein <q

Date Mon 1/20/2025 9:42 PM
To = Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear San Mateo City Council Members,

| am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.

| feel that the City should NOT be spending this large amount of money given the $10.6 M budget
shortfall. | want to see the money go to parks, street improvements for pedestrian and bicyclist safety,
and to repair local streets which are in awful condition.

Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district.

| urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive, community-driven alternative
that serves all San Mateo residents.

Sincerely,
Sue Blockstein

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane5
144 of 426

1/1


--- page 145 ---
21/01/2025, 10:37 Please vote no on Historic RFP agenda item 10; engage community instead hi. Outlook

Qa Outlook
Please vote no on Historic RFP agenda item 10; engage community instead

From Rick Ballard him

Date Tue 1/21/2025 10:27 AM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear City Council,
I'm writing to ask you to oppose the adoption of the Historic Resources RFP in tonight's agenda item #10,

San Mateo’s most historic and beautiful properties already have the appropriate protections. The city’s heritage is
not in danger. A vocal but tiny minority has asked you to act as if it is, but they do not represent the city. As
evidence of their misalignment with the community, note that the extensive proposal for Baywood historic
designation was, in the end, opposed by 90% of Baywood owners. This RFP is at odds with the priorities and
desires of your constituents.

Spending more money on studying this issue is a waste of important city dollars. It’s also dangerous. It opens the
door to abuse of CEQA by that well-financed minority, who can afford to hire private lawyers to bully property
owners and developers who don't bend to their whims. Members of that minority have already demonstrated their
willingness to “go vigilante” on historic preservation, instead of trusting our city planning staff, who are already
working hard to make sure that real historic resources have the appropriate protections. City planning takes
preservation of our real historic resources seriously and does not need the intrusion of wealthy private community
members armed with new legal avenues for control.

There are other ways, which do not raise such legal concerns, to encourage and support the caretaking of our
historic resources. | know others have written in with suggestions, Please choose an alternative approach to
supporting the historic portion of our housing element. Community outreach would be a good start to determine
what to do. If even minor traffic safety improvements warrant lengthy community engagement, something this
consequential certainly does.

Thank you,
- Rick Ballard
San Mateo Resident, district 2

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane6
145 of 426


--- page 146 ---
21/01/2025, 10:37 URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP him Outlook

Qa Outlook

URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP

From Rustard Mustard < [i

Date Tue 1/21/2025 8:51 AM
To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Alex Khojikian
<akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; Prasanna Rasiah <prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org>; Zachary Dahl
<zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear San Mateo City Council Members,

I strongly implore you to REJECT the proposed Historic Resources Request For Proposals on tonight's agenda.
There is a $10.6M budget shortfall.

This is absolutely NOT any type of priority if 9 to 1 Baywood residents are against the proposal of making their
neighborhood a historic district. It is my strongly held belief that, once informed, all San Mateo residents would reject
this proposal.

Mayor Newsom wants fiscal responsibility. So Council step up to the plate and put an end to this divisive chaos that
you will be continuing to instigate. Instead find a way to solve the deficit.

Once again, VOTE NO on the Historic Request for Proposals.

Sincerely,

Dr. Suzanne Bonilla
San Mateo Resident

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane7
146 of 426

1/1


--- page 147 ---
21/01/2025, 10:38 Urgent Appeal: SAY NO to the $500K Historic RFP rE Outlook

Qa Outlook

Urgent Appeal: SAY NO to the $500K Historic RFP

From PETER BORDEN <>
Date Mon 1/20/2025 8:10 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,

| am writing regarding the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP, As a San Mateo resident, | have several
serious concerns:

Financial Impact:

* City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs

* $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities

* Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive initiative

Community Opposition & Consensus:

* In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting

* No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision

« City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority

Legal Concerns:

* JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format

* Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations

* Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or zoning changes

* Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede signing this RFP

Alternative Solution:

* Implement staff-driven community engagement process

* Focus on voluntary participation rather than mandatory impositions
* Develop consent-driven historic preservation ordinance

+ Prioritize infrastructure benefiting all residents

| urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-driven alternative
that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
Peter Borden

Sent from my iPhone

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPanes /1
147 of 426


--- page 148 ---
21/01/2025, 10:38 Historic Preservation is not a Priority - i - Outlook

Qa Outlook

Historic Preservation is not a Priority

From Mary Burns <i

Date Sun 1/19/2025 6:59 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council Members,

| am writing to strongly oppose the proposed $500,000 expenditure for historic preservation consultants coming to
vote on January 21st.

With a $10.6M deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure projects, this spending makes no sense. Our Central
Park Playground is closed, MLK Rec Center is in shambles, and other community facilities are deteriorating.

This project, pushed by a preservationist special interest group, appears designed to block development and
create more red tape. Similar efforts in Baywood were opposed 9-to-1 by residents. It would effectively undermine
Measure T's housing progress and put huge burdens on homeowners and eventually increase rental prices as well.

Please prioritize our critical infrastructure needs over creating new bureaucratic barriers. Our community needs
functional parks and facilities, not more development restrictions.

These historical preservation efforts do not reflect my priorities and | oppose them.

Sincerely,
Mary Bums

Sent from my iPhone

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane9
148 of 426


--- page 149 ---
21/01/2025, 10:38 Historic Preservation is not a Priority -N- Outlook

Qa Outlook

Historic Preservation is not a Priority

From Kyle Cameron <j >

Date Sun 1/19/2025 9:58 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council Members,

| am writing to strongly oppose the proposed $500,000 expenditure for historic preservation
consultants coming to vote on January 21st.

With a $10.6M deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure projects, this spending makes no sense.
Our Central Park Playground is closed, MLK Rec Center is in shambles, and other community facilities
are deteriorating.

This project, pushed by a preservationist special interest group, appears designed to block
development and create more red tape. Similar efforts in Baywood were opposed 9-to-1 by residents.
It would effectively undermine Measure T's housing progress and put huge burdens on homeowners
and eventually increase rental prices as well.

Please prioritize our critical infrastructure needs over creating new bureaucratic barriers. Our
community needs functional parks and facilities, not more development restrictions.

These historical preservation efforts do not reflect my priorities and | oppose them.

Sincerely,
Kyle, Baywood Resident

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane10
149 of 426


--- page 150 ---
21/01/2025, 10:38 Historic Preservation is not a Priority a, | Outlook

Qa Outlook

Historic Preservation is not a Priority

From Rosa Chairez <i
Date Tue 1/21/2025 9:02 AM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council Members,

| am writing to strongly oppose the proposed $500,000 expenditure for historic preservation consultants coming to
vote on January 21st.

With a $10.6M deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure projects, this spending makes no sense. Our Central
Park Playground is closed, MLK Rec Center is in shambles, and other community facilities are deteriorating.

This project, pushed by a preservationist special interest group, appears designed to block development and
create more red tape. Similar efforts in Baywood were opposed 9-to-1 by residents. It would effectively undermine
Measure T's housing progress and put huge burdens on homeowners and eventually increase rental prices as well.

Please prioritize our critical infrastructure needs over creating new bureaucratic barriers. Our community needs
functional parks and facilities, not more development restrictions.

These historical preservation efforts do not reflect my priorities and | oppose them.

Sincerely,

[Name]

Evelia Chairez

Sent from my iPhone

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane11
150 of 426


--- page 151 ---
21/01/2025, 10:39 Historic districts - Historic RFP OPPOSE i. Outlook
Qa Outlook

Historic districts - Historic RFP OPPOSE

From Albert Cheng <i

Date Sun 1/19/2025 8:29 AM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear San Mateo City Council,

Thank you so much for your dedication to our city and hard work. It is a thankless job and | appreciate
your efforts. Nevertheless, | believe that the RFP under consideration could create historic districts
throughout the City, without owner consent. We want to see San Mateo thrive, and establishing arbitrary
hurdles to remodels and new construction, will not help us evolve and thrive.

Please do not support any actions to establish more historical districts. Vote no on the proposed Historic
consultant RFP. This is not a priority for San Mateo. Thank you for the opportunity to comment and for

your dedication.

Thank you,

Albert ~

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane12
151 of 426

1/1


--- page 152 ---
21/01/2025, 10:39 Historic Preservation is not a Priority -- Outlook

Qa Outlook

Historic Preservation is not a Priority

From nivedita chowdhury <i
Date Mon 1/20/2025 7:07 AM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council Members,

| am writing to strongly oppose the proposed $500,000 expenditure for historic preservation consultants coming to
vote on January 21st.

With a $10.6M deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure projects, this spending makes no sense, Our Central
Park Playground is closed, MLK Rec Center is in shambles, and other community facilities are deteriorating.

This project, pushed by a preservationist special interest group, appears designed to block development and
create more red tape. Similar efforts in Baywood were opposed 9-to-1 by residents. It would effectively undermine
Measure T's housing progress and put huge burdens on homeowners and eventually increase rental prices as well.

Please prioritize our critical infrastructure needs over creating new bureaucratic barriers. Our community needs
functional parks and facilities, not more development restrictions.

These historical preservation efforts do not reflect my priorities and | oppose them.

Sincerely,
Niv Chowdhury

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane13
152 of 426


--- page 153 ---
21/01/2025, 10:39 Concerning Pursuit of Historical Districts ht. Outlook

Qa Outlook

Concerning Pursuit of Historical Districts

From Jonathan Chun <
Date Sun 1/19/2025 7:53 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City of San Mateo,

As a resident not affected by the baywood historic district directly | am still appalled by the amount of money the
city wants to spend on such an endeavor. There are so many other deserving projects in our city that would not
make it even more difficult to develop housing. Please do not waste that money on consultants for a historic
district.

Jonathan Chun

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane14
153 of 426

1/1


--- page 154 ---
21/01/2025, 10:42 Baywood Aragon Resident Opposing the Baywood Historic Designation a, I Outlook

Qa Outlook
Baywood Aragon Resident Opposing the Baywood Historic Designation

Date Tue 1/21/2025 5:33 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>

Hi San Mateo City Council & Council Member Nash,

As a resident and homeowner in the Baywood-Aragon neighborhood, | am writing in to note my
opposition to the Baywood historic district. | cannot attend the council meeting tonight, but | hope
that my voice will be heard by my elected representative, Council Member Nash, and the entire
Council. Creating this historic district will impede solving the major problems facing our community:
the housing crisis, climate change, and economic empowerment for the city. Personally speaking, as
the father of two young children, | am disappointed that our council is debating & spending our tax
dollars considering this matter while the Central Park playground has been shuttered for months. It is
my children's favorite playground, and I would love to see us focus on reopening the playground soon
rather than consider divisive matters that do nothing to address our community's problems.

Thank you for reading my note.

All the best,
Brent Cohn & family

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane15
154 of 426


--- page 155 ---
21/01/2025, 10:42 Historic Preservation 7 SY Outlook

Ge Outlook
Historic Preservation

Date Sun 1/19/2025 9:53 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

January 19, 2025

City Council

City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

SUBJECT: Support for Context Study and Historic Preservation Ordinance Update
Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,

| am writing to express my strong support for the approval of the proposed scope of work to prepare
a context study and update the City’s historic preservation ordinance. As a resident of San Mateo for
nearly 25 years, | have witnessed firsthand how our community's history is an essential part of what
makes our city unique. The current historic preservation ordinance, dating back to 1993, and the 1989
Historic Building Survey are outdated and insufficient for our rapidly growing city. Updating both is
critical to preserving the city’s rich legacy while accommodating future development.

The Importance of a Context Study

e Cost-Effective and Efficient: A context study provides a cost-effective alternative to surveying
each historic property individually. It offers a comprehensive understanding of our city's historic
assets at a fraction of the cost.

e Framework for Preservation: The study will provide the necessary foundation to establish a
citywide understanding of our historic resources, which will guide future preservation efforts and
development decisions.

¢ Informed Policy: The findings of the context study will directly influence the revision of the
preservation ordinance, ensuring it accurately reflects the current state of our historic resources
and guides effective policy-making.

e Strategic Planning: By identifying the type, quantity, and location of historic resources, the
study will enable informed decisions that balance the need for growth with the importance of
preserving our heritage.

The Necessity of Updating the Historic Preservation Ordinance

¢ Cultural and Economic Benefits: As the current ordinance notes, preserving our history is not
only a matter of nostalgia—it enhances the cultural, economic, and aesthetic value of our
community.

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane16 1/2
155 of 426


--- page 156 ---
156 of 426

--- page 157 ---
Kevin & Lisa Cullinane

Subject: Cancellation of $500K Historic RFP for Baywood District

Dear Honorable Council Members,

As residents of Baywood and the City of San Mateo for over 35 years we
are strongly opposed to any funds being spent on studying or creating a
Historic District for the Baywood area. As some of you know we not only
live in San Mateo but have done business in this City for over 35 years,
operating SC Properties, a Real Estate Brokerage and Management
company headquartered in Downtown San Mateo since 1996.

Having renovated and/or developed over $750M of projects over this time
we can tell you that we have seen the City of San Mateo go from one of
the most efficient, development friendly cities in San Mateo County, to one
of the worst.

Adding a restrictive component to the already strained and arduous
process of getting the City Planning and Building departments to process
and provide a building permit will only make matters worse. For anyone to
say otherwise is just untrue. While we won't detail it in this letter we know of
at least 3 recent projects (one being in the Glazenwood Historic District)
that took anywhere from 9 -12 months to just get planning approval (then
in one case another 7 months to get a permit). Most of these projects were
assigned to “Contract Planners”, with minimal knowledge and/or
experience. In most cases they became an obstacle rather than facilitator
to that applicants’ project, which should never be the case.

We can say with 100% certainty that prior to 2014 working with the Planning
& Building staff in San Mateo was a wonderful experience. They made
every effort to help move the project forward by being available for
meetings and responding to questions quickly and expertly. Moreover,
staff saw themselves as advocates for the applicants’ project and made
every effort to help them and their consultants provide what was required
to move the project forward in an expeditious manner.

157 of 426


--- page 158 ---
For the Council to even consider funding an RFP for something that is so
clearly an overreach by a small group of residents defies common sense.
We have confirmed with my immediate neighbors (ii

— that none of them are in favor of the Historic District. From
what we understand that is the case in other areas of Baywood.
We understand the importance of preserving our Historic properties. We
own and/or manage several Historic properties in San Mateo County and
have made every effort to maintain them in a way that honors that
heritage. If there are some historic properties in the Baywood area we are

in favor of identifying those homes and working to preserve those specific
properties. That is a more reasonable and sensible path.

For a Historic District to be put into place for all Baywood is akin to using a
shotgun to kill a fly. Please reconsider your position on this matter and
move to reject the RFP currently being considered. We are sure our
already strained city budget can use the $500K in a more useful manner.

Kevin & Lisa Cullinane

158 of 426


--- page 159 ---
21/01/2025, 10:45 01/21/2025 Agenda item #10: OPPOSE Historic Policy Update P| Outlook
Qa Outlook

01/21/2025 Agenda item #10: OPPOSE Historic Policy Update

From Priyam Das <j
Date Mon 1/20/2025 9:10 PM
To = Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear San Mateo city council,

My name is Priyam and | am a resident of Foster City who grew up in the area and attended high
school in San Mateo. | strongly urge you to reject any proposals for new historic districts in San Mateo.
These historic designations will only make it harder to build more housing and keep San Mateo's cost
of living way too high. Please vote no on the proposed Historic Policy Update.

Thank you for the opportunity to comment.
Priyam

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane18
159 of 426


--- page 160 ---
21/01/2025, 10:45 Historic Preservation is not a Priority iii Outlook

Qa Outlook

Historic Preservation is not a Priority

From David Brownman < i
Date Sun 1/19/2025 8:16 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council Members,

| am writing to strongly oppose the proposed $500,000 expenditure for historic preservation
consultants coming to vote on January 21st.

With a $10.6M deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure projects, this spending makes no sense.
Our Central Park Playground is closed, MLK Rec Center is in shambles, and other community facilities
are deteriorating.

This project, pushed by a preservationist special interest group, appears designed to block
development and create more red tape. Similar efforts in Baywood were opposed 9-to-1 by residents.
It would effectively undermine Measure T's housing progress and put huge burdens on homeowners
and eventually increase rental prices as well.

Please prioritize our critical infrastructure needs over creating new bureaucratic barriers. Our
community needs functional parks and facilities, not more development restrictions.

These historical preservation efforts do not reflect my priorities and | oppose them.

Sincerely,
~DavidB

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane19
160 of 426


--- page 161 ---
21/01/2025, 10:45 Urgent Appeal: SAY NO to the $500K Historic RFP ,ti<“ Outlook

Qa Outlook
Urgent Appeal: SAY NO to the $500K Historic RFP

From Annette Delaney <i

Date Fri 1/17/2025 7:40 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,

| am writing regarding the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP, As a San Mateo resident, | have several
serious concerns:

Financial Impact:

* City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs

* $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities

* Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive initiative

Community Opposition & Consensus:

* In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting

* No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision

« City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority

Legal Concerns:

* JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format

* Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations

* Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or zoning changes

* Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede signing this RFP

Alternative Solution:

* Implement staff-driven community engagement process

* Focus on voluntary participation rather than mandatory impositions
* Develop consent-driven historic preservation ordinance

+ Prioritize infrastructure benefiting all residents

| urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-driven alternative
that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
{Your name]

Annette —

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane20O /1
161 of 426


--- page 162 ---
21/01/2025, 10:46 Urgent Appeal: SAY NO to the $500K Historic RFP - a. Outlook

Qa Outlook

Urgent Appeal: SAY NO to the $500K Historic RFP

Date Fri 1/17/2025 7:24 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,

| am writing regarding the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP, As a San Mateo resident, | have several
serious concerns:

Financial Impact:

* City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs

* $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities

+ Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive initiative

Community Opposition & Consensus:

* In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting

* No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision

« City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority

Legal Concerns:

* JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format

* Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations

* Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or zoning changes

* Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede signing this RFP

Alternative Solution:

* Implement staff-driven community engagement process

* Focus on voluntary participation rather than mandatory impositions
* Develop consent-driven historic preservation ordinance

+ Prioritize infrastructure benefiting all residents

| urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-driven alternative
that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
{Your name]

Richard Delane

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane21 /1
162 of 426


--- page 163 ---
MBM Jeffer Mangels
J Butler & Mitchell we

Daniel Freedman

January 20, 2025

Mayor Newsom, Deputy Mayor Loraine and
Hon. Members of the San Mateo City Council
City of San Mateo

San Mateo City Hall

330 West 20th Avenue

San Mateo, CA 94403

Re: Historic Policy Update Effort Professional Services
Agenda Item No. 10.
Hearing Date: January 21, 2025.

Dear Hon. Members of the City Council:

Our office represents Less Red Tape (“LRT”), a coalition of San Mateo
homeowners and residents who object to the establishment of historic districts without homeowner
consent. In prior correspondence LRT objected to the scope of work contained in the Historic
Policy Update Request for Proposals (“RFP”), and urged the City to first prepare an updated
Historic Preservation Ordinance, and thereafter proceed with the hiring of historic preservation
consultants to assist with preparing historic context statements that are consistent with the scope
of the updated ordinance.

The intent of this request was to allow the City Council to first establish the scope
of an ordinance (i.e., whether consent is required, whether single-family districts are included,
etc.), and then prepare historic context statements that match that scope. LRT still believes this is
the right path and can be accomplished without an outside historical consultant.

If council wishes to move forward on the agenda item and cannot de-couple the
ordinance portion, then LRT urges the City Council to proceed with Option 1 — subject to certain
conditions. The recommended conditions are as follows:

(1) Consent Based Ordinance: Any ordinance prepared or proposed in connection with
this RFP shall require property owner consent prior to the City surveying, designating,
or listing a property as a resource on any local register, survey or list.

(2) Single-Family Residential Exclusion: No Historic Context Statements or surveys
shall be performed, proposed or considered as part of this Historic Policy Update for

A Limited Liability Law Partnership Including Corporations / Los Angeles ® San Francisco * Orange County

72935831v1
163 of 426


--- page 164 ---
January 20, 2025
Page 2

any potential district that includes single-family residential homes, unless affirmative
consent is first obtained from the homeowners.

(3) Consent Threshold and Process: For potential single family residential districts,
consent will be determined in a similar manner as the City’s Residential Parking Permit
Program: a survey will be mailed to all households in the area, and at least 50% of
households in the proposed program area must respond to the survey. Of those
responding, at least 67% must support the proposed program.

We believe these conditions are both reasonable and narrowly tailored to allow for
the City to accomplish its goal of updating its historic preservation program, while also balancing
the property rights of City residents. To assist the City Council with proceeding in this manner,
we have attached a revised resolution labeled as Option 4. Option 4 simply directs staff to proceed
with the Historic Policy Update subject to these requested terms.

Thank you in advance for your consideration, and we look forward to presenting
our proposal in greater detail at tomorrow’s hearing.

DANIEL FREEDMAN o
Jeffer Mangels Butler & Mitchell LLP

DF:df

ce: Alex Khojikian, City Manager, City of San Mateo
Christina Horrisberger, Assistant City Manager, City of San Mateo
Less Red Tape

jmom.com

164 of 426

72933583 1v1


--- page 165 ---
165 of 426

--- page 166 ---
21/01/2025, 10:46 January 21 Meeting - Historic Survey Agenda Item Pog Outlook

Qa Outlook

January 21 Meeting - Historic Survey Agenda Item

From Norma Formanek <
Date Sun 1/19/2025 9:49 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

City Council Members:

The notion of spending hundreds of thousands of dollars on a historic property survey is disturbing for
a number of reasons.

The tragedy in Los Angeles and environs is one that could easily visit our city. San Mateo sits at the
base of steep, wildland canyons that are choked with dead and diseased trees, brush and all manner of
fuel. If you have not driven slowly up Crystal Springs Road, Parrott Drive, Polhemus, Tournament,
Hillsdale etc. and looked at the adjoining land, | urge you to do so and consider the fire risk. Some of
this land is in the County and Hillsborough, but if it burns, San Mateo will burn too. Thus far this year
we've had decent rainfall. So did LA in the last couple of years, leading to rapid brush growth in the
hills which, with a dry spell and winds out of the valley and desert, led to the cataclysmic fire. | would
hope there is a major cooperative effort with the City's neighbors - with funding_and not just paper
studies - to mitigate risk. San Mateos older buildings (whether or not they meet the definition of
"historic") are_far more likely to be destroyed by fire than developers. The money that is proposed for
a historic site survey should be used to benefit the entire city, neighboring communities and our
economy as a whole by mitigating fire danger.

Further, the lack of housing in San Mateo that meets any definition of "affordable" is stifling our City's
vibrancy. | have lived in Baywood and Aragon for 40+ years -- | want teachers, City workers, health
care workers, firefighters and police to enjoy what I've enjoyed. The San Mateo Heritage Alliance has
been transparent about their goal of "preserving" Baywood as a neighborhood of single family homes
- j.e., without ADUs. While the number of ADUs that conceivably could be built in Baywood is a
vanishingly small addition to the residential stock that is needed, | see no legitimate purpose in
establishing special enclaves in the City or throwing up another hurdle to housing.

It is, further, without question that a historic district designation will put further burdens on the
availability and cost of homeowners insurance. If insurance becomes unaffordable or unavailable, the
economic consequences and saleability of homes will be dire. | hope the City has taken expert advice
on this issue - it is complex but should be of compelling importance to the Council, much more so that
identifying subjectively "historic" building facades.

Thank you for your thoughtful consideration of these important issues.

Norma Formanek

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane22 /1
166 of 426


--- page 167 ---
21/01/2025, 10:46 Historic designations - OPPOSE - TE 011100

Qa Outlook

Historic designations - OPPOSE

Date Tue 1/21/2025 7:15 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear San Mateo city council,

Please reject the idea that we should establish new historic districts, in any neighborhoods. Doing this
just takes away people's rights to build and shelter themselves from the outdoors! What we need are
much fewer restrictions on the kinds of things people can do, not more at all, so we can find better ways
to live in accord with what we would like. That's not going to happen if we freeze things in time.

Please do not support any actions to establish more historical districts, Vote no on the proposed Historic
consultant RFP. This is not a priority for San Mateo.

| have been living here since 2015 El Camino, N Ellsworth, and now at 31st Ave) and working in town, at
Roblox.

Thank you for the opportunity to comment.

Ernest French

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane23
167 of 426

1/1


--- page 168 ---
21/01/2025, 10:54 NO on Historic Districts and Spending a: - Outlook

Qa Outlook
NO on Historic Districts and Spending

From Zhang Grace <i

Date Sun 1/19/2025 6:05 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Hello Council,

| just learned about proposed funding for historic consultants and historic designations in the City. It
look like this is up for vote on January 21.

| live in San Mateo Park. I pay six figure every year in property tax. | do NOT support historical
designations or districts. If San Mateo Park would have been a historical district, | would have
bought in Menlo Park or Atherton instead.

Last week I took my son to Central Park Playground - it was closed due to safety and maintenance
issues! Most other parks are in similarly bad shape. That is where my tax dollar should go, not to
preservation consultants and more issues for us.

These historical preservation efforts do not reflect what families and tax payers need in San Mateo.
You need to look forward not backwards. San Mateo is already behind other cities in the area.
Historical districts will make attractiveness of the city worse.

This should get $0 allocated.

Thank you for your attention,

Bingyuan
San Mateo Park Resident

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane24
168 of 426


--- page 169 ---
21/01/2025, 10:55 Historic Preservation is not a Priority I - Outlook

Qa Outlook

Historic Preservation is not a Priority

From Michael Hosticka

Date Mon 1/20/2025 9:25 AM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council Members,

| am writing to strongly oppose the proposed $500,000 expenditure for historic preservation consultants coming to
vote on January 21st.

With a $10.6M deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure projects, this spending makes no sense. Our Central
Park Playground is closed, MLK Rec Center is in shambles, and other community facilities are deteriorating.

This project, pushed by a preservationist special interest group, appears designed to block development and
create more red tape. Similar efforts in Baywood were opposed 9-to-1 by residents. It would effectively undermine
Measure T's housing progress and put huge burdens on homeowners and eventually increase rental prices as well.

Please prioritize our critical infrastructure needs over creating new bureaucratic barriers. Our community needs
functional parks and facilities, not more development restrictions.

These historical preservation efforts do not reflect my priorities and | oppose them.

Sincerely,
Michael Hosticka

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane25
169 of 426


--- page 170 ---
21/01/2025, 10:55 URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP - | Outlook

Qa Outlook

URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP

From Michelle Hudson
Date Mon 1/20/2025 1:14 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear San Mateo City Council Members,

I
am writing to request that you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP for the following reasons:

e Other matters should be higher priorities for the city, such as addressing the climate crisis, parks,
safety and housing.

e Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend over their
priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall.
Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small
group of residents who wish to circumvent the will of the majority.

e« This non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City will end up
spending even more budget on litigation.

e« This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility,

« Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own district
and all of San Mateo.

In
summary, | urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive, community-driven
alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,

Michelle

Hudson

Baywood Resident

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane26 /1
170 of 426


--- page 171 ---
21/01/2025, 10:55 Urgent Appeal: SAY NO to the $500K Historic RFP EEE Outlook

Qa Outlook

Urgent Appeal: SAY NO to the $500K Historic RFP

From daniel ikeda a 0 060UmUUtt™~“—~S
Date Mon 1/20/2025 9:17 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,

| am writing regarding the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP, As a San Mateo resident, | have several
serious concerns:

Financial Impact:

* City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs

* $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities

+ Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive initiative

Community Opposition & Consensus:

* In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting

* No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision

« City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority

Legal Concerns:

* JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format

* Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations

* Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or zoning changes

* Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede signing this RFP

Alternative Solution:

* Implement staff-driven community engagement process

* Focus on voluntary participation rather than mandatory impositions
* Develop consent-driven historic preservation ordinance

+ Prioritize infrastructure benefiting all residents

| urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-driven alternative
that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
Daniel and Jackie Ikeda

Sent from my iPhone

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane27 /1
171 of 426


--- page 172 ---
21/01/2025, 10:55 Urgent Appeal: SAY NO to the $500K Historic RFP hz Outlook

Qa Outlook

Urgent Appeal: SAY NO to the $500K Historic RFP

From daniel ikeda 5 0Utt~<‘“‘“‘“‘
Date Mon 1/20/2025 9:17 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,

| am writing regarding the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP, As a San Mateo resident, | have several
serious concerns:

Financial Impact:

* City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs

* $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities

+ Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive initiative

Community Opposition & Consensus:

* In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting

* No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision

« City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority

Legal Concerns:

* JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format

* Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations

* Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or zoning changes

* Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede signing this RFP

Alternative Solution:

* Implement staff-driven community engagement process

* Focus on voluntary participation rather than mandatory impositions
* Develop consent-driven historic preservation ordinance

+ Prioritize infrastructure benefiting all residents

| urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-driven alternative
that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
Daniel and Jackie Ikeda

Sent from my iPhone

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane28 /1
172 of 426


--- page 173 ---
21/01/2025, 10:56 Historic Preservation is not a Priority im. Outlook

Qa Outlook
Historic Preservation is not a Priority

From Lara \ias <i

Date Mon 1/20/2025 9:15 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council Members,

| am writing to strongly oppose the proposed $500,000 expenditure for historic preservation consultants coming to
vote on January 21st.

With a $10.6M deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure projects, this spending makes no sense, Our Central
Park Playground is closed, MLK Rec Center is in shambles, and other community facilities are deteriorating.

This project, pushed by a preservationist special interest group, appears designed to block development and
create more red tape. Similar efforts in Baywood were opposed 9-to-1 by residents. It would effectively undermine
Measure T's housing progress and put huge burdens on homeowners and eventually increase rental prices as well.

Please prioritize our critical infrastructure needs over creating new bureaucratic barriers. Our community needs
functional parks and facilities, not more development restrictions.

These historical preservation efforts do not reflect my priorities and | oppose them.
Sincerely,

Lara Irias

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane29
173 of 426


--- page 174 ---
21/01/2025, 10:56 Historic Preservation is not a Priority [Jn Outlook

Qa Outlook
Historic Preservation is not a Priority

From Janna Kolodi it.

Date Sun 1/19/2025 11:27 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council Members,

| am writing to strongly oppose the proposed $500,000 expenditure for historic preservation
consultants coming to vote on January 21st.

With a $10.6M deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure projects, this spending makes no sense.
Our Central Park Playground is closed, MLK Rec Center is in shambles, and other community facilities
are deteriorating.

This project, pushed by a preservationist special interest group, appears designed to block
development and create more red tape. Similar efforts in Baywood were opposed 9-to-1 by residents.
It would effectively undermine Measure T's housing progress and put huge burdens on homeowners
and eventually increase rental prices as well.

Please prioritize our critical infrastructure needs over creating new bureaucratic barriers. Our
community needs functional parks and facilities, not more development restrictions.

These historical preservation efforts do not reflect my priorities and | oppose them.

Sincerely,

Janna Kolodii

A home owner from red zoned Cental San Mateo that has been severely neglected and completely
abandoned by Council.

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane30 1/1
174 of 426


--- page 175 ---
21/01/2025, 10:56 Historic designations - OPPOSE - J - outioox

Qa Outlook

Historic designations - OPPOSE

Date Tue 1/21/2025 10:01 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear San Mateo City Council,

Please reject the idea that we should establish new historic districts, in any neighborhoods, One of San
Mateo’s greatest liabilities is our high cost of living, and making it harder to build more homes will only
make it more expensive,

We have worked to pass good housing laws, both at the state and local levels, and a historic district
would undermine these laws, as well as our general plan and newly-minted Measure T, Please do not
support any actions to establish more historical districts. Vote no on the proposed Historic consultant
RFP, This is not a priority for San Mateo.

Thank you for the opportunity to comment.

Katrina Cruz

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane31
175 of 426

1/1


--- page 176 ---
21/01/2025, 10:57 Urgent Appeal: Reconsider the $500K Historic RFP PC - Outlook

Qa Outlook

Urgent Appeal: Reconsider the $500K Historic RFP

From Anna Kuhre <r
Date Fri 1/17/2025 2:12 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,

| am writing regarding the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP, As a San Mateo resident, | have several
serious concerns:

**Financial Impact:**

* City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs

* $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities

* Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive initiative

**Community Opposition & Consensus:**

* In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting

* No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision

« City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority

**L egal Concerns:**

+ JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format

* Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations

* Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or zoning changes

* Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede signing this RFP

**Alternative Solution:**

* Implement staff-driven community engagement process

* Focus on voluntary participation rather than mandatory impositions
* Develop consent-driven historic preservation ordinance

+ Prioritize infrastructure benefiting all residents

| urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-driven alternative
that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
[Anna Kuhre]

Sent from my iPhone

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane33 /1
176 of 426


--- page 177 ---
21/01/2025, 10:56 Urgent Appeal: Reconsider the $500K Historic RFP - [EEE - Outlook

Qa Outlook

Urgent Appeal: Reconsider the $500K Historic RFP

From Anna Kuhre < i

Date Fri 1/17/2025 2:12 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,

| am writing regarding the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP, As a San Mateo resident, | have several
serious concerns:

**Financial Impact:**

* City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs

* $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities

* Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive initiative

**Community Opposition & Consensus:**

* In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting

* No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision

« City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority

**L egal Concerns:**

+ JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format

* Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations

* Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or zoning changes

* Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede signing this RFP

**Alternative Solution:**

* Implement staff-driven community engagement process

* Focus on voluntary participation rather than mandatory impositions
* Develop consent-driven historic preservation ordinance

+ Prioritize infrastructure benefiting all residents

| urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-driven alternative
that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
[Anna Kuhre]

Sent from my iPhone

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane32 /1
177 of 426


--- page 178 ---
178 of 426

--- page 179 ---
21/01/2025, 10:57 Urgent Appeal: SAY NO to the $500K Historic RFP - aa. Outlook

Qa Outlook

Urgent Appeal: SAY NO to the $500K Historic RFP

From Lane Poms <i
Date Mon 1/20/2025 3:56 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,

| am a resident of San Mateo Park, We are only now just being communicated with by our neighborhood
association regarding this issue. Please vote now as we need time to make the decision as to whether we want to
be historic for our neighborhood.

| am writing regarding the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP. As a San Mateo resident, | have several
serious concerns:

Financial Impact:

+ City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs

* $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities

« Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive initiative

Community Opposition & Consensus:

* In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting

* No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision

* City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority

Legal Concerns:

* JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format

* Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations

* Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or zoning changes

* Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede signing this RFP

Alternative Solution:

* Implement staff-driven community engagement process

* Focus on voluntary participation rather than mandatory impositions
* Develop consent-driven historic preservation ordinance

* Prioritize infrastructure benefiting all residents

| urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-driven alternative
that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,

Lane L. Poms

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane35 /1
179 of 426


--- page 180 ---
21/01/2025, 10:58 Please support more housing and oppose anti-housing designations se Outlook

Qa Outlook
Please support more housing and oppose anti-housing designations

From Anthony Lazarus ii.

Date Tue 1/21/2025 9:35 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Distinguished San Mateo City Council members,

I'm a former Planning Commission member in Redwood City beseeching you to reject the notion to
establish new historic districts, in any neighborhoods.

One of San Mateo’s greatest liabilities is our high cost of living, and making it harder to build more
homes will only make it more expensive. Redwood City and other cities are facing this same challenge
without trying to stymie new development.

New housing laws are seeking to address the housing affordability crisis, and we must work together
as a region to create better and stronger communities, not exclude people or condemn them to

megacommutes. The creation of historic districts would undermine these efforts.

Please do not support any actions to establish more historical districts. Vote no on the proposed
Historic consultant RFP.

Thank you for the opportunity to comment.

Anthony Lazarus

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane36
180 of 426


--- page 181 ---
21/01/2025, 10:58 Historic Preservation is not a Priority rf Outlook
Qa Outlook

Historic Preservation is not a Priority

From Jess Liu <a

Date Sun 1/19/2025 9:19 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear City Council Members,

As a resident of San Mateo, | am writing to strongly oppose the proposed $500,000 expenditure for historic
preservation consultants coming to vote on January 21st.

With a $10.6M deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure projects, this spending makes no sense. Our Central
Park Playground is closed, MLK Rec Center is in shambles, and other community facilities are deteriorating.

This project, pushed by a preservationist special interest group, appears designed to block development and
create more red tape. Similar efforts in Baywood were opposed 9-to-1 by residents. It would effectively undermine
Measure T's housing progress and put huge burdens on homeowners and eventually increase rental prices as well.

Please prioritize our critical infrastructure needs over creating new bureaucratic barriers. Our community needs
functional parks and facilities, not more development restrictions.

These historical preservation efforts do not reflect my priorities and | oppose them.

Sincerely,
Jess Liu

Sent from my iPhone

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane37
181 of 426


--- page 182 ---
21/01/2025, 10:58 Please cancel the $500K Historic RFP a, =f Outlook

Qa Outlook

Please cancel the $500K Historic RFP

From Colin Madere <a
Date Fri 1/17/2025 8:53 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San
Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and Council,

Regarding the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP, I strongly suggest the city use these funds instead to
help all of San Mateo (such as funding the Central Park and other park updates!), and not just a very select few,

Owners always have the option to have their own property designated historic without impacting the taxpayers or
creating barriers for people improving deteriorating properties.

| urge you to vote NO on this wasteful spending, especially since a potential incoming financial tightening in
general will put a spotlight on such wastes. It would not look good for those that supported this.

Sincerely,

Colin Madere
Central

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane38
182 of 426


--- page 183 ---
21/01/2025, 10:58 Historic Preservation is not a Priority - iin - Outlook

Qa Outlook

Historic Preservation is not a Priority

From David Mazahreh <

Date Mon 1/20/2025 10:45 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council Members,

| am writing to strongly oppose the proposed $500,000 expenditure for historic preservation consultants coming to
vote on January 21st.

With a $10.6M deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure projects, this spending makes no sense. Our Central
Park Playground is closed, MLK Rec Center is in shambles, and other community facilities are deteriorating.

This project, pushed by a preservationist special interest group, appears designed to block development and
create more red tape. Similar efforts in Baywood were opposed 9-to-1 by residents. It would effectively undermine
Measure T's housing progress and put huge burdens on homeowners and eventually increase rental prices as well.

Please prioritize our critical infrastructure needs over creating new bureaucratic barriers. Our community needs
functional parks and facilities, not more development restrictions.

These historical preservation efforts do not reflect my priorities and | oppose them.

Sincerely,
David Mazahreh

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane39
183 of 426


--- page 184 ---
21/01/2025, 10:58 No historic districts. -EE- Outlook
Qa Outlook

No historic districts.

From Ricki McGlashan <i

Date Fri 1/17/2025 1:17 PM

To City Mar <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear San Mateo City Council,

San Mateo has a rich history and hopefully a rich and prosperous future. The idea of special historic
districts is anathema to that goal. All of us need to figure out a way to fit in more housing, and carving
out special districts that might limit ADUs or other shared housing options punishes the rest of the town.
We already have regular requirements for what can be built where, and those are sufficient.
Homeowners should otherwise have the right to decide.

No-one in San Mateo has the right to force higher density in other parts the town. Our future is shared.

Please do not support any actions to establish historical districts. Vote no on the proposed Historic
consultant RFP. This is not a priority for San Mateo and benefits just a few elite neighborhoods.

Ricki and Doug McGlashan

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane40
184 of 426


--- page 185 ---
21/01/2025, 10:59 Support Context Study Jan. 22, 2025 - [EEE - Outlook

Qa Outlook
Support Context Study Jan. 22, 2025

Date Fri 1/17/2025 12:22 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Mayor Newsom & City Council Members,

| am writing to ask for your support to protect and to preserve our unique treasures and neighborhoods for future
generations by supporting the proposed scope of work for the Context Study & Historic Preservation Ordinance.

Please protect our historical homes, set-backs, beautiful gardens and heritage trees. Please do not be deceived
by the developers who are not truthful and who are interested in creating mega-mansions and inappropriate
buildings that do not reflect the neighborhood and where, ultimately, money and profit rule over esthetics and
common sense,

Thank you,

Sincerely,

Shirley Melnicoe
Baywood Home Owner

Sent from my iPhone

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane4 1
185 of 426

1/1


--- page 186 ---
21/01/2025, 10:59 Support Context Study Jan, 22, 2025 -
Oe Outlook

Support Context Study Jan. 22, 2025

Form a
Date Fri 1/17/2025 12:22 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Mayor Newsom & City Council Members,

| am writing to ask for your support to protect and to preserve our unique treasures and neighborhoods for future
generations by supporting the proposed scope of work for the Context Study & Historic Preservation Ordinance.

Please protect our historical homes, set-backs, beautiful gardens and heritage trees. Please do not be deceived
by the developers who are not truthful and who are interested in creating mega-mansions and inappropriate
buildings that do not reflect the neighborhood and where, ultimately, money and profit rule over esthetics and
common sense,

Thank you,

Sincerely,

Shirley Melnicoe
Baywood Home Owner

Sent from my iPhone

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane42
186 of 426

1/1


--- page 187 ---
21/01/2025, 10:59 1/21/25 Council Meeting - Please vote for Option 1 and pursue the Rincon Survey i. Outlook

Qa Outlook

1/21/25 Council Meeting - Please vote for Option 1 and pursue the Rincon Survey

From Michael <i

Date Mon 1/20/2025 5:26 PM

To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Mayor Newsom and Members of City Council - Please support Option 1 and pursue the Rincon
Survey. The prior survey was incomplete and our current ordinance outdated and inadequate. The
survey will able us to make data-driven decisions on what historical assets exist, driving informed
strategy around what should be preserved vs the ad-hoc method used today.

| remind the mayor and council to consider the source of input coming in on this topic. YIMBY activsts,
co-opted by developers and unions that do not reside in or care aboubt San Mateo should be
discounted heavily. Residents that stepped up and got you elected expect you to represent them
(whether they wrote in or not). Big money interests and outside activists, as always, are flooding you
with opposition that really does not exist in reality right here in San Mateo. Most residents like myself
live here precisely because of San Mateo's history - the homes, downtown, neighborhoods etc. We
deserve to know what exists and to participate in the land use decisions that are precipitated. Without
our historic assets, San Mateo becomes like any other generic city, and we must strike a balance.

The cost is nominal. There will always be competing interests and no doubt you'll hear all of those
tomorrow. But to quote Churchill when parliament wanted to cut funding for the arts during WWII, he
asked "well then what are we fighting for?". The same can be said here. We owe it to our current
residents, and future generations, to be smart about this. And that starts with approving the study.

This study doesn't enact and historic districts or any sort of ordinance - it does make us more well-
informed, which will hopefully make our future land use decisions better. i think an important question
that needs answering is how did the cost come down from $250k to $60? We do not want or need
another survey that doesn't truly capture the assets like the last one. Do it right or don't do it at all.

In the wake of the passage of Measure T, which removes the protections of Measure Y, you as the
council must take extra steps to protect our beloved city from developers, unions, etc. who only care

about one thing - making money. It will take courage on your part. Don't back down.

Thanks - Michael Weinhauer, Central Neighborhood

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane43 /1
187 of 426


--- page 188 ---
21/01/2025, 10:59 Jan 21 agenda - Reject historic policy update funding ; 4 Outlook
Qa Outlook

Jan 21 agenda - Reject historic policy update funding

fom 5 Miler <i

Date Mon 1/20/2025 12:51 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San
Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

| am writing regarding the Jan 21 agenda item regarding funding of the historic policy update funding by the city
council.

| urge the council to reject the proposal to fund the historic project update Historic district designation has been an
incredible divisive issue for the Baywood neighborhood and the councilmembers should not worsen these divisions by
funding any effort to develop policy updates or surveys that are a precursor to historic designation.

In my opinion, historical designation for the neighborhood falls flat on its own merits. Most of the building took place
under San Mateo's redlining practices, which excluded non-Caucasians from purchasing in the area - this is an
unfortunate stain on the historical legacy. On practical matters, historical designation increases building costs,
prevents desirable updates, and increases litigation.

In the wake of the LA area fires, insurance companies are leaving the area. Our previous insurance company no
longer is doing business in San Mateo, leaving us with fewer options and more expensive insurance. Increasing costs
to rebuild and uncertainty about approvals is yet another real reason for insurance companies to stop offering policies

The proposal here to spend more than $300,000 on policy updates would be an irresponsible financial decision when
there are many other more deserving and less divisive projects needing funding.

| currently believe that the city councilmembers value fiscal responsibility and community coherence and hope that
you demonstrate this by rejecting this unnecessary and divisive proposal.

Thank you,
-Steve Miller

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane44
188 of 426


--- page 189 ---
21/01/2025, 11:00 Historic Preservation is not a Priority - a. Outlook

Qa Outlook
Historic Preservation is not a Priority

From sesh mudumbai 4, 0 —60tti‘“Ol

Date Sun 1/19/2025 8:35 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo)
<CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council Members,

| am writing to strongly oppose the proposed $500,000 expenditure for historic preservation
consultants coming to vote on January 21st.

With a $10.6M deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure projects, this spending makes no
sense. Our Central Park Playground is closed, MLK Rec Center is in shambles, and other
community facilities are deteriorating.

This project, pushed by a preservationist special interest group, appears designed to block
development and create more red tape. Similar efforts in Baywood were opposed 9-to-1 by
residents. It would effectively undermine Measure T's housing progress and put huge burdens
on homeowners and eventually increase rental prices as well.

Please prioritize our critical infrastructure needs over creating new bureaucratic barriers. Our
community needs functional parks and facilities, not more development restrictions.

- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.

- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend over
their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the
proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots with too much time
on their hands.

- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.

- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there is
a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.

- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.

These historical preservation efforts do not reflect my priorities and | oppose them.
Sincerely,

Sesh Mudumbai

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane45 1/1
189 of 426


--- page 190 ---
21/01/2025, 11:00 Glazenwood Background for Historic Resources Discussion a. Qutlook

Ge Outlook
Glazenwood Background for Historic Resources Discussion

Date Sat 1/18/2025 5:59 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

CC is

Attachments available until Feb 17, 2025

Dear Council:

Please find materials that reflect the successes San Mateo has had with previous historic preservation
efforts in our city.

For example, Glazenwood residents are pleased with the experience of being in a historic district as
measured by a survey that Chris Eckert -"Mr. San Mateo"= supported. Please consider this part of the
public outreach effort!

Also note the link to a short video spotlighting Mr Eckert, San Mateo's history, and Glazenwood.

Many people are pleased that this historic resources effort is finally happening after 30 years of
patience waiting for the City to complete its promised assessment.

Glick to Download
GlazenwoodSurvey2024F.pptx
204 KB

Click to Download

Glazenwood Edited.mp4
655 MB

Regards and thank you for prioritizing this for 2025.

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane46
190 of 426


--- page 191 ---
191 of 426

--- page 192 ---
21/01/2025, 11:00 Glazenwood Background for Historic Resources Discussion - P| - Outlook

Ge Outlook

Glazenwood Background for Historic Resources Discussion

From Michael Nash ay =—t—‘“‘i—_‘CSCS~S
Date Sun 1/19/2025 9:20 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Co

Attachments available until Feb 18, 2025

Dear Council:

Please find materials that reflect the successes San Mateo has had with previous historic preservation
efforts in our city.

For example, Glazenwood residents are pleased with the experience of being in a historic district as
measured by a survey that Chris Eckert -"Mr. San Mateo"= supported. Please consider this part of the
public outreach effort!

Also note the link to a short video spotlighting Mr Eckert, San Mateo's history, and Glazenwood.

Many people are pleased that this historic resources effort is finally happening after 30 years of
patience waiting for the City to complete its promised assessment.

Glick to Download
GlazenwoodSurvey2024F.pptx
204 KB

Click to Download

Glazenwood Edited.mp4
655 MB

Regards and thank you for prioritizing this for 2025.

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane47
192 of 426


--- page 193 ---
21/01/2025, 11:00 Glazenwood Background for Historic Resources Discussion - a. Outlook

Michael Nash

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane47
193 of 426

2/2


--- page 194 ---
ae hp SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
Se

GLAZENWOOD
HISTORIC DISTRICT- RESIDENT SURVEY

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

June 2024 with Thanks to Chris Eckert

194 of 426


--- page 195 ---
PURPOSE OF THE STUDY

The Glazenwood Historic District is a small neighborhood of single-family homes in
the Hayward Park area of San Mateo , California. The homes were built in the 1920s
and 1930s and are primarily Spanish Colonial Revival architecture.

The District is one of three historic districts in San Mateo. The Downtown Historic
District and Glazenwood were identified in the 1989 Historic Building Survey
commissioned by the City of San Mateo. The Yoshiko Yamanouchi House Historic
District was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2023.

The Baywood Historic District was nominated in 2023 to be listed on the National

Register of Historic Places. This nomination raised questions about what it means to
live in a historic district.

This survey was designed to solicit the opinions of residents regarding their years of
living in a historic district in the City of San Mateo to respond to these questions.

Due to its small size the survey has an 18% margin of error at a 95% confidence level.

195 of 426


--- page 196 ---
STUDY DESIGN

This resident survey was designed by Edna Luther & Associates, Inc.,a national
marketing research and consulting firm. (See appendix) This firm has conducted
thousands of studies to measure consumer attitudes that inform major decisions.

The questions were developed to elicit unbiased opinions of residents. The
questionnaire was hand delivered by Mr. Chris Eckert, a Glazenwood resident and
local realtor who specializes in the Glazenwood area of San Mateo. Responses
were mailed or hand delivered to Mr. Eckert. There are 37 homes in
Glazenwood. The questionnaire was completed by |7 residents, or 46% of
residents.

196 of 426


--- page 197 ---
Q:ARE YOU AWARE THAT GLAZENWOOD ISA
DESIGNATED HISTORIC DISTRICT?

88.2%

Yes, | do know that

A significant majority of
homeowners are aware of the
Historic District.

No, I did not know that 11.8%

197 of 426


--- page 198 ---
Q: WHAT IMPACT, IF ANY, DOES THE FACT THAT
GLAZENWOOD ISA DESIGNATED HISTORIC DISTRICT

HAVE ON YOUR PRIDE OF OWNERSHIP?

| am extremely proud to live in this

designated Historic District 41.2%

88.3 % of owners are proud to | am very proud to live in this designated
e i : 7 r Historic District
live in a Designated Historic
district to a varying degree.

35.3%

| am somewhat proud to live in this
designated Historic District

| am proud to live in this community but
it does not matter that it is a designated
Historic District

198 of 426


--- page 199 ---
Q: WHEN YOU PURCHASED
YOUR HOME, HOW MUCH
DID THE FACT THAT
GLAZENWOOD ISA

DESIGNATED HISTORIC
DISTRICT IMPACT YOUR
DECISION?

41.1% of owners said it favorably impacted
their decision to buy

but 29.5% of people were not aware at the
time

Of those who were aware, 75% said it
had at least some some impact:

Alot-— 25%
Some— 34%
Very little — 16%

Had a lot of impact - but not my
primary reason

Had some impact on my decision

Had very little impact on my
decision

Had no impact on my decision

| was not aware that it was a
designated Historic District before
| purchased my home

17.6%

23.5%

11.8%

17.6%

199 of 426


--- page 200 ---
Q: WHICH, IF ANY, OF THESE FACTORS MAKE GLAZENWOOD A STABLE

COMMUNITY ?

Owners take good care of their property,

88.2% of residents say owner upkeep and iS aneep and maintenance
maintenance contribute to the stability of the
neighborhood.

76.5% of residents say pride in ownership OWENS Ste HIST Ts Comments

contributes.

Two out of three say owners having a sense of
community contributes. Owners have a sense of community

Six in ten agree design guidelines sustain the

character of the neighborhood and contributes. — eT
There are building/modification

Just over half believe low turn-over of ownership —, ee a
sustains the character of the neighborhood and enaracter orine neignbonmoe
contributes to its stability.

Low turn-over of ownership

200 of 426


--- page 201 ---
Q: HOW MUCH DOES THE FACT THAT GLAZENWOOD ISA
DESIGNATED HISTORIC DISTRICT HAVE ON YOUR LIKELIHOOD

TO CONTINUE TO OWN HERE OVER THE NEXT SEVERAL YEARS?

The historic designation makes me
extremely likely to continue to own here

Most owners did not rate
: 5 : 3 The historic designation makes me very
historic designation as important to likely to continue to own here
remaining in their homes.

Does not impact my decision to
continue to own here

201 of 426


--- page 202 ---
RESPONDENTS WERE ASKED TO READ

“INFORMATION ON GLAZENWOOD HISTORY”

The City of San Mateo currently has two identified historic districts, the Downtown Historic District and the Glazenwood Historic
District.

Historic districts typically come with legal protections that ensure relevant buildings and homes remain visually intact with their
surrounding structures, meaning the homes are much like they were when first built.

The Glazenwood Historic District, a neighborhood of single-family homes within Hayward Park, was designated a local historic
district by the City in the early 1990s and is eligible for the National Register of Historic Places. The District retains a high degree of
integrity.

Glazenwood now occupies the site of the original Hayward mansion which was converted to the luxury Peninsula Hotel after
Hayward’s death. The Hotel burned down in 1920.

Between 1922 and | 925, the S.A. Born Building Company developed the property into an upscale residential area of Spanish
Colonial Revival homes. One distinguishing feature of the subdivision is its U-shaped design with the two curved streets of Laurel
and Rosewood. Curved streets were popular at the time, derived from the country lanes of England.

The District includes a majority of houses on the west side of Rosewood Drive, Laurel Avenue, the 100 block of Hayward Avenue
and the east side of Palm Avenue between 9th and Hayward.

The boundaries are based on the original subdivision map as well as the visual coherence and age of the houses.

Perhaps the most striking visual feature of this neighborhood is the use of the Spanish Colonial Revival style architecture. Many
architectural historians note that this style became the favored style for coastal California in the 1920s. In fact, if one architectural
style were selected to characterize San Mateo’s historic building stock, the most likely choice would be the Spanish Colonial Revival.

One historian described the neighborhood this way, “Glazenwood epitomizes San Mateo’s hopes during the | 920s, as it formed ee
itself into a community of ‘beautiful homes”

202 of 426


--- page 203 ---
OPINION - NOW THAT YOU READ THE DESCRIPTION, WHAT DO YOU THINK
ABOUT THE FACT THAT GLAZENWOOD IS A DESIGNATED

HISTORIC DISTRICT?

Notable Responses:

¢ Extremely proud and helps maintain these 100-year-old structures for the future generations.

* | absolutely love the history in our neighborhood. I've done extensive reading on the Alvinso Hayward and actually have
handwritten postcards from the hotel! | also have a copy of the Glazenwood map that shows the handwritten names of the

homeowners on each lot.

¢ | appreciate that Glazenwood is a historic district and that there are efforts being made to keep the visual style intact.

* | believe that it is very beneficial that Glazenwood is a historic district. This designation will help to preserve the character of
the neighborhood.

* Ilike that Glazenwood is a very small subdivision and has a unique history. Most of my neighbors take pride in living in
Glazenwood and are quick to point out that this is not Hayward Park! It seems like most of the owners (with some exceptions)
have chosen to honor the history of their homes when updating their houses. | am extremely glad we have a level of protection
against an owner scraping their house to plop down an ugly white modern block built right out to the set back limits. (This is
very common in Los Angeles and in part of San Carlos and Redwood City).

* Itis very important part of our culture here in San Mateo to retain our History. Glazenwood represents an important piece of
San Mateo history.

¢ Love it and support this. We need to maintain this beautiful architecture. Need to prevent new homeowners buying and tearing
down homes only to rebuild non-descriptive mini mansions. eed to ensure new homeowners retain the
Glazenwood beauty and not force their own cultural norms into our community and destroy our history.

* tis very important part of our culture here in San Mateo to retain our History. Glazenwood represents an important piece of
San Mateo history.

¢ Support legal protections for visual consistency in the area.

* The neighborhood is unique.The pillars are an outstanding enhancement when we moved in, a high school classmate not (FF 3"%
a broker, told me “I’ve always wanted to live here”

203 of 426


--- page 204 ---
OPINION - NOW THAT YOU READ THE DESCRIPTION, WHAT DO YOU
THINK ABOUT THE FACT THAT GLAZENWOOD IS A DESIGNATED

HISTORIC DISTRICT? (CONTINUED)

Notable Responses (cont.):

| feel proud to live in this neighborhood
I like to see some of the early history of San Mateo preserved.
I feel the mu should not have designated the district as historic without the residents’ votes/inputs. (note: designation was

done in
We think it is very interesting, it also provides even a greater sense of pride in owning the home.

204 of 426


--- page 205 ---
Q: HOW IMPORTANT ARE EACH OF THESE
CHARACTERISTICS OF YOUR

NEIGHBORHOOD?

94% say Historic Designation is absolutely critical or important

88.3% say maintaining exteriors visible from the street is absolutely critical or
very important

82% say authenticity of architecture is very important or critical

88% say the preservation ordinance protects that the character is critical or
very important

82% say renovation being subject to a historic preservation ordinance is
absolutely critical or very important.

82% support Street facing regulations
82% support legal protections for visual consistency in the area

88.3% say new construction should adhere to local style, rating this as critical
or very important

205 of 426


--- page 206 ---
Q: HOW IMPORTANT ARE EACH OF THESE
CHARACTERISTICS OF YOUR

NEIGHBORHOOD? (CONT.)

82% rate property value stability or increasing as critical or very important.
(note: Glazenwood enjoys higher than average price increases when compared
to similar homes in the area - Eckert Study).

23.5% have some concern about onerous regulations while 47.5% are not
concerned.

70% of homes had significant renovations — 30% were done after historic
regulations were implemented.

One one person reported cost implications and added complexity from
historic regulations. Two said the regulations made their project better. Most
didn’t know.

35% said city staff were competent, or capable with help from others

Respondents were satisfied with renovation results in all cases

206 of 426


--- page 207 ---
SUMMARY

88.2% of residents were aware of the Historic District when asked.
88.3 % of owners are proud to live in a designated Historic District.

41.1% of owners said the Historic District designation favorably impacted their
decision to buy, but 29.5% of people were not aware. (see slide 7)

Glazenwood residents regard historic designation as extremely important to
the character of the neighborhood.

City ordinances are working to support Glazenwood.

Only one party had something bad to say about the ordinance process.

207 of 426


--- page 208 ---
CONCLUSIONS

Glazenwood residents regard Historic Designation as extremely important to
the neighborhood.

City ordinances are viewed as working well in support of Glazenwood.
Only one party had something bad to say about the ordinance process.

There is no reason to assume new city rules would make Historic
Designation less appealing citywide than it is in Glazenwood.

208 of 426


--- page 209 ---
21/01/2025, 13:35 Historic Preservation Ordinance - {inn - Outlook

Qa Outlook

Historic Preservation Ordinance

From Alicia Ong <a
Date Mon 1/20/2025 3:06 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Hi,

I'm a resident of District 1 in San Mateo AY and I would like to advocate
that the city not allocate any money for the update to the Historic Preservation Ordinance. That is
tens of thousands of dollars that could go toward other city projects instead (like unfunded
infrastructure).

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane1
209 of 426

1/1


--- page 210 ---
21/01/2025, 13:45 Support for Context Study and Historic Preservation Ordinance Update : - Outlook

Qa Outlook
Support for Context Study and Historic Preservation Ordinance Update

Date Mon 1/20/2025 8:25 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,

| would like to express my support once again for historic preservation in San Mateo. I’m writing to ask you to
approve a consultant to prepare a historic context study of San Mateo historic resources, as well as update the
Historic Preservation Ordinance = which has not been done for thirty years.

It's important to do this now, before we lose more historic resources,

Thanks so much for your consideration.

Martha Park

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane3
210 of 426


--- page 211 ---
21/01/2025, 13:47 Historic districts - Historic RFP OPPOSE iim. Outlook

Qa Outlook

Historic districts - Historic RFP OPPOSE

From Kevin Phillips < a

Date Sun 1/19/2025 3:14 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear San Mateo City Council and Staff,

| reject the idea that new historic districts should be established. | am a Glazenwood resident and
recently completed a significant remodel to my home. Because Glazenwood is historic, my architect
and | had to navigate the process with city planners and building staff and | am confident that process
added significant time and costs to the project. My goal was to complete said renovation while
following both general and historic guidelines. | wasn’t looking to push the boundaries and do
anything out of the ordinary. What should have been a simple project, took 18 months from my fist
submittal to permit approval.

The approach to add new historic homes to the list should not be a shotgun blast. It should happen
on a case-by-case basis after thorough research and investigation on the specific property.

Please do not support any actions to establish more historical districts. Vote no on the proposed
Historic consultant RFP. This is not a priority for San Mateo,

Thank you for the opportunity to comment.
Respectfully,

Kevin Phillips
Glazenwood Resident, San Mateo Business Owner

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane4
211 of 426


--- page 212 ---
21/01/2025, 13:47 Urgent Appeal: SAY NO to the $500K Historic RFP - | Outlook

Qa Outlook

Urgent Appeal: SAY NO to the $500K Historic RFP

From Scott Poms
Date Mon 1/20/2025 3:59 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,

| live in the San Mateo Park neighborhood. | would appreciate a no vote, As | need time to get up to speed to
understand this issue more fully. It does not make sense to me to be spending this much on a study.

| am writing regarding the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP. As a San Mateo resident, | have several
serious concerns:

Financial Impact:

+ City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs

* $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities

* Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive initiative

Community Opposition & Consensus:

* In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting

* No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision

* City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority

Legal Concerns:

+ JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format

* Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations

* Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or zoning changes

* Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede signing this RFP

Alternative Solution:

« Implement staff-driven community engagement process

* Focus on voluntary participation rather than mandatory impositions
* Develop consent-driven historic preservation ordinance

* Prioritize infrastructure benefiting all residents

| urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-driven alternative
that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,

Scott Poms

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane5 /1
212 of 426


--- page 213 ---
21/01/2025, 13:48 Oppose Historic District Designation for San Mateo mia Outlook

Qa Outlook

Oppose Historic District Designation for San Mateo

From Ofelia VL Ramos <q

Date Mon 1/20/2025 7:57 AM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear San Mateo City Council,

The RFP under consideration could create historic districts throughout the City, without owner
consent. | reject the idea that we should establish new historic districts. We want to see San
Mateo thrive, and establishing arbitrary hurdles to remodels and new construction, will not help us
evolve and thrive.

Please do not support any actions to establish more historical districts. Vote no on the proposed
Historic consultant RFP. This is not a priority for San Mateo.

Thank you for the opportunity to comment.

Ofelia V. L. Ramos

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane6
213 of 426

1/1


--- page 214 ---
21/01/2025, 13:48 Urgent Appeal: Reconside the $500K Historic RFP P| - Outlook

Qa Outlook

Urgent Appeal: Reconside the $500K Historic RFP

From Amit Rathore < ia

Date Sun 1/19/2025 5:55 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,

| am writing regarding the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP, As a San Mateo resident, | have several
serious concerns:

Financial Impact:

* City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs

* $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities

* Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive initiative

Community Opposition & Consensus:

* In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting

* No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision

« City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority

Legal Concerns:

+ JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format

* Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations

* Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or zoning changes

* Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede signing this RFP

Alternative Solution:

* Implement staff-driven community engagement process

* Focus on voluntary participation rather than mandatory impositions
* Develop consent-driven historic preservation ordinance

+ Prioritize infrastructure benefiting all residents

| urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-driven alternative
that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
Amit Rathore,
Baywood Home Owner

Sent from my iPhone

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane7 1/1
214 of 426


--- page 215 ---
21/01/2025, 13:48 Urgent Appeal: SAY NO to the $500K Historic RFP a Outlook

Qa Outlook

Urgent Appeal: SAY NO to the $500K Historic RFP

From Steve Revesz <_-
Date Tue 1/21/2025 7:57 AM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,

| am writing regarding the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP, At a time when our city has so many
serious issues, expending resources on this silly vanity project is irresponsible.

As a long-time San Mateo resident, | have several serious concerns:

Financial Impact:

* City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs

* $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities

* Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive initiative

Community Opposition & Consensus:

« In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting

* No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision

* City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority

Legal Concerns:

* JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format

* Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations

* Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or zoning changes

* Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede signing this RFP

Alternative Solution:

* Implement staff-driven community engagement process

* Focus on voluntary participation rather than mandatory impositions
* Develop consent-driven historic preservation ordinance

* Prioritize infrastructure benefiting all residents

| urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-driven alternative
that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
Steven Revesz

Sent from my iPhone

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPanes /1
215 of 426


--- page 216 ---
21/01/2025, 13:48 Historic designations - OPPOSE Ei. Qutlook

Qa Outlook

Historic designations - OPPOSE

From Stephanie Reyes <i >
Date Thu 1/16/2025 3:14 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear San Mateo City Council,

Please reject the idea that we should establish new historic districts, in any neighborhoods, One of San
Mateo’s greatest liabilities is our high cost of living, and making it harder to build more homes will only
make it more expensive,

We have worked to pass good housing laws, both at the state and local levels, and a historic district
would undermine these laws, as well as our general plan and newly-minted Measure T, Please do not
support any actions to establish more historical districts. Vote no on the proposed Historic consultant
RFP, This is not a priority for San Mateo.

Thank you for the opportunity to comment.

Stephanie Reyes

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane9
216 of 426

1/1


--- page 217 ---
21/01/2025, 13:49 Oppose historic designations survey - unnecessary expense, worse affordability a. Outlook

Qa Outlook
Oppose historic designations survey - unnecessary expense, worse affordability

From Rafael Reyes <i

Date Mon 1/20/2025 8:07 PM

To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Mayor Newsom and San Mateo City Council Members,

Please reject the idea that we should survey the city for establishing historic districts in the city.
This is a poor use of the city's limited resources - up to as much as nearly $400,000 plus

substantial staff time - at a time when the city is facing substantial budget challenges.

The outcome would worsen San Mateo's already unaffordable cost of living and restrict
property-owner's rights according to their needs.

Please reject this unnecessary, expensive process that will benefit a small number of residents
and limit San Mateo's future.

Please vote NO,

Sincerely,

-Rafael _

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane10
217 of 426


--- page 218 ---
21/01/2025, 13:57 Historic Designation: OPPOSE hi Outlook

Qa Outlook

Historic Designation: OPPOSE

From Tyler Richendollar <fjiii
Date Tue 1/21/2025 6:27 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear San Mateo city council,

More affordable housing should be at the forefront of decision-making for San Mateo's leadership.
Please reject the idea and related proposals that intimate that we should establish new historic
districts in any of our neighborhoods. One of San Mateo’s greatest liabilities is our high cost of living,
and making it harder to build more homes will only make it more expensive.

We have worked to pass good housing laws, both at the state and local levels, and a historic district
would undermine these laws, as well as our general plan and newly-minted Measure T. Please do not
support any actions to establish more historical districts. Vote no on the proposed Historic consultant
RFP. This is not a priority for San Mateo and makes it a less welcoming place for its citizens.

Thank you for the opportunity to comment.

_ Richendollar

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane11
218 of 426


--- page 219 ---
21/01/2025, 13:57 No Consent, No Historic: Vote "Option 3" on Jan 21 - a. Outlook

Ge Outlook
No Consent, No Historic: Vote "Option 3" on Jan 21

Date Tue 1/21/2025 10:20 AM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo)
<CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Honorable Councilmembers,

Please reject unchecked, unconsented historic preservation in San Mateo and vote "Option 3" at
today's Council meeting. The proposed RFP is:

1) An expensive boondoggle in a year when San Mateo is already facing a $10.7 million dollar
budget deficit. We're not fooled by this being funded from the “Advance Planning" fund: at the end
of the day this is taxpayer money, plain and simple. Meanwhile, every time | walk through Central Park
| am furious because our city's crown jewel park has a playground that is barely usable by children. The
same slides that my child (now 20 years old) once played on are gone or in ruins.

2) Not what the people want. Documented formal opposition is running 9:1 in Baywood. Your
inboxes are flooded with opposition, and you will see us in force tonight at the meeting as well.

3) Unnecessary. Why do we need to hire consultants to tell San Mateo what to preserve and how to
preserve it? We live here, we should be able to establish our own priorities around preservation. And
we already employ a city staff and attorney more than capable of writing laws.

4) Likely to create new historic districts even if that is not the intent. City Council will be paying to
do the Heritage Alliance's work for them. The San Mateo Heritage Alliance has already shown they
don't care about a local process and have bypassed the local process to go directly to the state. The
SMHA will almost certainly use the context statements created by the RFP to create new state-level
historic districts, bypassing council *again*. You can't say you weren't warned.

We have attempted to engage constructively with City staff to develop a plan that incorporates owner
consent, but staff has ignored us and presented an RFP that does not guarantee any owner consent. If
Council votes down the RFP, Less Red Tape will be happy to sit down and help negotiate for a better
path forward that incorporates consent and other strong protections for property owners and the City.
That is our plan sent by our attorney Daniel Freedman as "Option 4".

We are committed to solving this problem in a way that benefits the wishes of a majority of San
Mateans. The current RFP benefits only the San Mateo Heritage Alliance. As councilmembers, you were
elected to represent the wishes of the people, not minority fringe special interests like the Heritage
Alliance who have no popular base in this city.

Vote "Option 3". No consent, no historic. If you must spend taxpayer money on something only a tiny
fringe minority wants, please go with our "Option 4" that preserves homeowner consent in the
process.

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane12 12
219 of 426


--- page 220 ---
220 of 426

--- page 221 ---
21/01/2025, 13:57 Vote no on Historic consultant RFP | Outlook
Qa Outlook

Vote no on Historic consultant RFP

From Rebecca Schaaf <

Date Mon 1/20/2025 8:00 PM

To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear San Mateo city council,

Please reject the idea that we should establish new historic districts, in any neighborhoods. One
of San Mateo’s greatest liabilities is our high cost of living, and making it harder to build more
homes will only make it more expensive.

We have worked to pass good housing laws, both at the state and local levels, and a historic
district would undermine these laws, as well as our general plan and newly-minted Measure T.
Please do not support any actions to establish more historical districts. Vote no on the proposed
Historic consultant RFP. This is not a priority for San Mateo.

Thank you for the opportunity to comment.

Sincerely,
Rebecca Schaaf

District 2
San Mateo

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane13
221 of 426


--- page 222 ---
21/01/2025, 13:58 Historic Preservation is not a Priority ii. Outlook

Qa Outlook

Historic Preservation is not a Priority

From Sophie Scheidlinger yA &§

Date Sun 1/19/2025 9:48 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear City Council Members,

| am writing to strongly oppose the proposed $500,000 expenditure for historic preservation consultants coming to
vote on January 21st.

With a $10.6M deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure projects, this spending makes no sense. Our Central
Park Playground is closed, MLK Rec Center is in shambles, and other community facilities are deteriorating.

This project, pushed by a preservationist special interest group, appears designed to block development and
create more red tape. Similar efforts in Baywood were opposed 9-to-1 by residents. It would effectively undermine
Measure T's housing progress and put huge burdens on homeowners and eventually increase rental prices as well.

Please prioritize our critical infrastructure needs over creating new bureaucratic barriers. Our community needs
functional parks and facilities, not more development restrictions.

These historical preservation efforts do not reflect my priorities and | oppose them.

Sincerely,
Sophie

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane14
222 of 426


--- page 223 ---
21/01/2025, 13:59 Urgent Appeal: SAY NO to the $500K Historic RFP - | Outlook

Qa Outlook
Urgent Appeal: SAY NO to the $500K Historic RFP

From Deepthi Somasunder i,

Date Sun 1/19/2025 4:28 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,

| am writing regarding the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP, As a San Mateo resident, | have several
serious concerns:

Financial Impact:

* City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs

* $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities

* Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive initiative

Community Opposition & Consensus:

* In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting

* No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision

« City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority

Legal Concerns:

+ JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format

* Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations

* Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or zoning changes

* Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede signing this RFP

Alternative Solution:

* Implement staff-driven community engagement process

* Focus on voluntary participation rather than mandatory impositions
* Develop consent-driven historic preservation ordinance

+ Prioritize infrastructure benefiting all residents

| urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-driven alternative
that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
Deepthi Somasunder

Sent from my iPhone

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane15 /1
223 of 426


--- page 224 ---
21/01/2025, 14:00 Do not fund or support Baywood historic district project - a. Outlook

Qa Outlook
Do not fund or support Baywood historic district project

From Judy Syrkin-Nikolau tt,

Date Mon 1/20/2025 5:10 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear San Mateo City Council Members,

My name is Judy Syrkin-Nikolau and | have been a San Mateo resident for nearly 10 years. | am writing
to request you REJECT the proposed Baywood Historic Resources RFP.

It is very disappointing that projects such as the Central Park redesign have been stalled (even the park
is already closed!!) while prioritizing projects that have far less importance to the vast majority of the
people of San Mateo.

This money would be much better spent funding community wide projects that benefit all San
Mateoans, such as the Central Park Playground Redesign or one of the many other underfunded
projects that San Mateo has on the books.

In summary, | urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive, community-
driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Thank you,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane16
224 of 426


--- page 225 ---
21/01/2025, 14:00 Let San Mateans Dictate Their Neighborhood: YIMBY's Go Home hi Outlook

Qa Outlook
Let San Mateans Dictate Their Neighborhood: YIMBYs Go Home

Date Mon 1/20/2025 12:25 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Let San Mateans Dictate Their Neighborhood: YIMBYs Go Home

YIMBYs just can't leave San Mateo alone until they have their way at every turn. They have already put
out a call to email or attend the City Council meeting tomorrow to sway your votes on the process for
historical districts. Half of their call to action is absolute rubbish. But the bottom line is that it's high
time to allow residents and process to dicate San Mateo outcomes - NOT OUTSIDERS.

Thank you in advance,

Lisa Taner
Resident

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane17
225 of 426


--- page 226 ---
21/01/2025, 14:00 Vote YES to Appropriate Funds for Historic Resource Update & Consultant FE Outlook

Qa Outlook

Vote YES to Appropriate Funds for Historic Resource Update & Consultant

From Lisa Vande Voorde 4 0U0Ut™~“‘~SS
Date Tue 1/21/2025 7:32 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Honorable Mayor and City Council Members,

I’m writing to urge you to please vote yes on Option 1 to approve the Rincon Consultants scope of work
to prepare the historic context study and update the historic preservation ordinance. It’s important to do
the historic context study first, as it will inform the key components of the historic preservation ordinance
itself. And Option 1 is more cost-effective, coming in at only 0.12% of the City’s 2025-26 budget.
Literally decimal dust!

Protecting and preserving historic resources is a federal, state, and local priority. It is a goal and policy
in our General Plan. Now is the time to implement these goals and policies. The accelerated pace of
development has residents concerned about the loss of our oldest buildings. In addition, there is a lot of
confusion about what constitutes a historic resource and how the city manages those resources. The
confusion can only be resolved by the city providing clarity in the designation process and ordinance.

Yet somehow, this issue has been colored and hijacked by those with other agendas.

Conflating the housing issue with preserving what little historic resources San Mateo has left is only a
red herring to promote the YIMBY agenda. | urge the City Council to see through that and move forward
with the long-overdue updating of our historic context study and historic preservation ordinance. Please
vote YES on Option 1 tonight.

Thank you, and I very much appreciate your efforts to help preserve San Mateo’s 130-year history for
future generations.

Yours truly,

Lisa Vande Voorde
San Mateo Resident

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane18
226 of 426


--- page 227 ---
21/01/2025, 14:01 Historic districts - Historic RFP OPPOSE - i Outlook

Qa Outlook
Historic districts - Historic RFP OPPOSE

From Tacy Volpori

Date Fri 1/17/2025 4:49 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear San Mateo City Council,

The RFP under consideration could create historic districts throughout the City, without owner consent. |
reject the idea that we should establish new historic districts. We want to see San Mateo thrive, and
establishing arbitrary hurdles to remodels and new construction, will not help us evolve and thrive.

Please do not support any actions to establish more historical districts. Vote no on the proposed Historic
consultant RFP. This is NOT a priority for San Mateo. That $500,000 of OUR taxpayer dollars should
be spent on other things, such as improving infrastructure, versus trying to control homeowner’s
property rights.

Tracy Volponi — San Mateo City Resident

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane19
227 of 426

1/1


--- page 228 ---
21/01/2025, 14:01 January 21, 2025 City Council Agenda Item 10 - Historic Policy Update - a. Outlook

Ge Outlook
January 21, 2025 City Council Agenda Item 10 - Historic Policy Update

From Connie Weiss <j
Date Mon 1/20/2025 12:19 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Hello Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,

Thank you for moving forward with the first steps in San Mateo’s historic
policy update. By approving the budget Tuesday evening, San Mateo can
Save money and be more efficient by updating and clarifying our
outdated zoning ordinance now. As you know, this is part of the General
Plan 2040 and the time and cost has already been factored into the City's
plans.

| would encourage you to approve both the context statement and
ordinance as developing them concurrently enables the ordinance to
reflect the resources and the policies that will be identified in the context
statement. This will have the added benefit of providing greater clarity to
property owners and city staff.

As background, | grew up on the East Coast where preservation

of historic resources are core to a city’s identity. It creates a reason to
visit and a sense of place. The West Coast is young in comparison, which
makes it even more imperative for us to preserve what little historic
buildings we do have! Tuesday's favorable decision to move forward is
the needed first step.

| understand that there will be further discussion on this at a later

date, but I'm aware there will be speakers Tuesday night who will try to
argue historic preservation blocks housing or creates an onerous burden
on property owners. Not only is this not true, it is also the case that this
scope of work will not designate any new historic resources nor will it

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane20 1/2
228 of 426


--- page 229 ---
229 of 426

--- page 230 ---
21/01/2025, 14:01 Historic Districts - | Outlook
Qa Outlook

Historic Districts

From Robert Whitehair <j

Date Mon 1/20/2025 1:08 PM

To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org >; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; Teri
Whitehair

Dear San Mateo City Council,

My wife and | have owned a home in San Mateo for close to 43 years. In all that time, we have been
keenly interested in there being as much affordable housing as possible.

Special historic districts work against that interest. | ask the Council to figure out a way to fit in more
housing. Carving out special "protected" districts that might limit ADUs or other shared housing
options punishes the rest of us. We already have regular requirements for what can be built where,
and those are sufficient.

Those of us in Neighborhood Associations such as ours, Borel Neighborhood Association, are deeply
concerned that once one district is created, it is an easy step for creation of the next district, without
our approval!

Please do not support any actions to establish historical districts. Vote no on the proposed Historic
consultant RFP, This is not a priority for San Mateo and benefits just a few elite neighborhoods.

Robert and Teri Whitehair
Acknowledgement: We reside on the unceded lands of our indigenous ancestors, while benefiting

from racial privilege. We begin making reparations by accepting only a kinship view of our place on
the planet: All life is interconnected, interdependent, and interrelated.

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane21 1/1
230 of 426


--- page 231 ---
21/01/2025, 14:02 Historic Preservation is not a Priority - Chantal Eaton - Outlook

Ga Outlook

Historic Preservation is not a Priority

From Shihomi K. Yamanokuchi A, = =—t—‘“‘a‘_OSOSC:~S

Date Mon 1/20/2025 9:00 AM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council Members,

| am writing to strongly oppose the proposed $500,000 expenditure for historic preservation consultants coming to
vote on January 21st.

With a $10.6M deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure projects, this spending makes no sense. Our Central
Park Playground is closed, MLK Rec Center is in shambles, and other community facilities are deteriorating.

This project, pushed by a preservationist special interest group, appears designed to block development and
create more red tape. Similar efforts in Baywood were opposed 9-to-1 by residents. It would effectively undermine
Measure T's housing progress and put huge burdens on homeowners and eventually increase rental prices as well.

Please prioritize our critical infrastructure needs over creating new bureaucratic barriers. Our community needs
functional parks and facilities, not more development restrictions.

These historical preservation efforts do not reflect my priorities and | oppose them.

Sincerely,
Shihomi Yamanokuchi

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane22
231 of 426


--- page 232 ---
21/01/2025, 14:02 Historic Preservation is not a — i
lo Outlook

Historic Preservation is not a Priority

ros <a

Date Mon 1/20/2025 1:34 AM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council Members,

| am writing to strongly oppose the proposed $500,000 expenditure for historic preservation consultants coming to
vote on January 21st.

With a $10.6M deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure projects, this spending makes no sense. Our Central
Park Playground is closed, MLK Rec Center is in shambles, and other community facilities are deteriorating.

This project, pushed by a preservationist special interest group, appears designed to block development and
create more red tape. Similar efforts in Baywood were opposed 9-to-1 by residents. It would effectively undermine
Measure T's housing progress and put huge burdens on homeowners and eventually increase rental prices as well.

Please prioritize our critical infrastructure needs over creating new bureaucratic barriers. Our community needs
functional parks and facilities, not more development restrictions.

These historical preservation efforts do not reflect my priorities and | oppose them.

Sincerely,
Eric You

Sent from my iPhone

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane23
232 of 426


--- page 233 ---
21/01/2025, 14:02 Historic Preservation is not a Priority hi Outlook
Qa Outlook

Historic Preservation is not a Priority

Date Tue 1/21/2025 7:50 AM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkagodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear City Council Members,

| am writing to strongly oppose the proposed $500,000 expenditure for historic preservation
consultants coming to vote on January 21st.

With a $10.6M deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure projects, this spending makes no sense.
Our Central Park Playground is closed, MLK Rec Center is in shambles, and other community facilities
are deteriorating.

This project, pushed by a preservationist special interest group, appears designed to block
development and create more red tape. Similar efforts in Baywood were opposed 9-to-1 by residents.
It would effectively undermine Measure T's housing progress and put huge burdens on homeowners
and eventually increase rental prices as well.

Please prioritize our critical infrastructure needs over creating new bureaucratic barriers. Our
community needs functional parks and facilities, not more development restrictions.

These historical preservation efforts do not reflect my priorities and | oppose them.

Sincerely,
Catherine

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane24
233 of 426


--- page 234 ---
21/01/2025, 16:11 Historic designations - OPPOSE : Outlook

Ga Outlook

Historic designations - OPPOSE

From Mary Rose LeBaron <i

Date Tue 1/21/2025 3:39 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear San Mateo city council,

Please reject the idea that we should establish new historic districts, in any neighborhoods, One of San
Mateo’s greatest liabilities is our high cost of living, and making it harder to build more homes will only
make it more expensive,

We have worked to pass good housing laws, both at the state and local levels, and a historic district
would undermine these laws, as well as our general plan and newly-minted Measure T, Please do not
support any actions to establish more historical districts. Vote no on the proposed Historic consultant
RFP, This is not a priority for San Mateo.

Thank you for the opportunity to comment.

Mary Rose LeBaron

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane1
234 of 426

1/1


--- page 235 ---
21/01/2025, 19:09 January 21, 2025 Council Meeting |
lo Fy Outlook

January 21, 2025 Council Meeting

From Maurine Killough <_
Date Tue 1/21/2025 2:00 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <cityclerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Mayor Newsom and Members of City Council,

| urge you to support Option 1 for the Rincon Scope of Work for our city-wide historic
context study and the update of the historic preservation ordinance. Having a plan that
considers our history and aesthetics adds great quality and demand to our precious
area. We should protect and plan carefully.

We have so much worth recognizing and preserving! The recent nomination of the
Yoshiko Yamanouchi House as a historic landmark in our Central Neighborhood is a
perfect example of how we can preserve and highlight San Mateo’s history; in this case
the importance of the contributions of Japanese Americans to San Mateo.

Thank you for your careful and holistic consideration for Option 1 of the Rincon Scope of
Work.

Maurine Killough
You are not IN the Universe you ARE the universe—an intrinsic part of it.
Ultimately you are not a person, but a focal point where the universe is becoming conscious of itself. What an

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane1
235 of 426


--- page 236 ---
236 of 426

--- page 237 ---
21/01/2025, 15:04 Historic Presevation Ordinance - P| Outlook
lo My Outlook
Historic Presevation Ordinance

From weller323 <i

Date Tue 1/21/2025 12:55 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc __ Laurie Hietter

Dear City Council,

| am urging you to vote "Yes" on Option 1 to approve the Rincon Scope of Work to prepare the
historic context study and update the preservation ordinance. Our historic ordinance is woefully
out of date, especially in light of the rapid development that is enveloping San Mateo.
Thankfully, the 2024 city council recognized the need for addressing how we maintain our city's
unique identity through the General Plan 2040.

While recognizing that change, development and growth is inevitable for San Mateo, these
should be guided by consideration for quality of life and the future character of our city. As the
General Plan 2040 states one goal is to "preserve the historic and culturally important resources
to maintain San Mateo's special identity and continuity with the past." Option 1 is important to
this goal (and saves almost $60,000.00 over Option 2).

Option 1:

> Will provide an important baseline and framework for how the City should approach
preserving our history. There is currently much confusion and misinformation about "historic
districts" and "historic resources" and how they relate to building permits remodeling etc. for the
private homeowner,

> Will clarify for homeowners AND city staff how to determine what is historic throughout San
Mateo thus saving time, money, and frustration for all.

>It will not designate any new historic districts or resources.
>It does not prevent future housing, ADU's, or any restrictions on homeowners. |

>It will provide a clearer understanding of what enriches life in San Mateo's by identifying its
proud cultural heritage and history.

Please vote "Yes" on Option 1!
Sincerely,

Nancy Weller
San Mateo resident and property owner

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane36 1/1
237 of 426


--- page 238 ---
21/01/2025, 15:06 Historic Preservation ae
lo My Outlook

Historic Preservation

From Stephen Weller ia

Date Tue 1/21/2025 1:40 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <cityclerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; Laurie
Hietter na

City Council of San Mateo:

We are long-term residents of San Mateo.

We purchased our home in 1979 to a large degree out of appreciation for the style of homes and
neighborhoods throughout San Mateo, including the downtown area.

| have followed the issue of declaring neighborhoods and buildings as “historic” in nature, and |
believe that we should attempt to preserve these historic attributes.

There appears to be misunderstanding and misinterpretation of the concept of "historic".

In order to bring clarity to these issues, the City Council has the opportunity to establish the definition
of “historic” for property owners, thus eliminating the misunderstandings.

Given the vote this evening, to identify the "option" that will be pursued, I feel that selecting Option #1
is both cost effective and will result in the definitions that we need as a City going forward. This option
(#1) does not remove any property rights, and will allow future development of housing while
respecting the nature of our community.

Thank you for your service.

Stephen A. Weller, MD

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane37
238 of 426


--- page 239 ---
-----Original Message-----

From:

Sent: Monday, January 20, 2025 3:45 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Ce: Clerk <cityclerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Support Option 1 - Historic Policy Update Effort Professional Services

Dear Honorable Mayor Newson and Councilmembers,

T have been a resident of San Mateo for 37 years and urge you to please vote YES for Option 1 to commission an
historic resource context study and historic ordinance update project.

Historic Resources have been neglected by San Mateo for over 35 years now, it is time now, YES, NOW, to
understand what resources exist and how and to what extent they should be protected. The City has committed to
doing this as stated in the General Plan 2040 document — “Actively identify and preserve historic resources and
concentrations of historic resources. ..”” (page 115 Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040). Again, now is the time to
follow through on this commitment.

We are excited that the City is interested in a robust public engagement program that will inform the community and
allow for community input. It will provide clarity on how historic properties are defined and designated. The City,
staff and public will have a clear roadmap explaining the permitting process for proposed substantial modifications
to historic resources.

Why even bother with historic resources? It is because our history is what defines us, it contributes to our quality of
life and it tells a story as to our shared culture. It is also a selfless act that provides a gift to subsequent generations.
In short, our history as manifested by our historic resources, is the soul of our community and we need to protect it.
A City that does not honor or recognize its historic past is a City without a soul — one that is all about the present
and one that caters to a greedy, self-serving few.

Once historic resources decay or are destroyed, they are gone — that story and that dimension to our quality of life is
gone forever.

There is opposition to this project. The opponents are deliberately misrepresenting the scope of work and the
outcome of this effort — it does not prevent housing in any way. Denying this study will not make housing more
affordable in San Mateo.

There are numerous benefits to launching this effort:

- This work will actually SAVE the City money and reduce risk in the long run. The resulting Context Study
and updated ordinance will provide the guidelines and eliminate the guesswork of what should be protected and how
it should be protected.

- It will also guide where and how new development can occur by identifying the areas of San Mateo that can
be developed without destroying or degrading historic resources.

- This will guide City staff in decision-making and helps avoid irreversible catastrophic actions that potentially
destroy historic resources and potentially embroil the City in costly legal action.

239 of 426


--- page 240 ---
240 of 426

--- page 241 ---
21/01/2025, 14:56 | oppose historic designations in San Mateo hi. Outlook

Gk Outlook

| oppose historic designations in San Mateo

From Wendy Chou <j
Date Tue 1/21/2025 11:22 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear San Mateo City Council,

Please reject the idea that we should establish new historic districts in any San Mateo neighborhoods,
San Mateo is already saddled with an unaffordably high cost of living, and making it harder to build more
homes will only exacerbate the problem of affordability,

We have worked to pass good housing laws, both at the state and local levels (witness Measure T,
which passed with a strong majority), but a historic district would undermine this process.

It is my opinion that the drive to create historic districts is motivated by NIMBYism — giving more power
and control to the "haves" at the expense of those who don't have the privilege of currently owning
property. This ploy is a shameful violation of our community's responsibility to uphold housing equity and
consider the welfare of the community as a whole.

Please vote no on the proposed Historic consultant RFP.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment.

Sincerely,

Wendy Chou

resident of San Mateo

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane25
241 of 426


--- page 242 ---
21/01/2025, 14:57 Historic districts - Historic RFP OPPOSE - a. Outlook

lo My Outlook
Historic districts - Historic RFP OPPOSE

From Mike Feng <r

Date Tue 1/21/2025 2:31 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr
<citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear San Mateo City Council,

The RFP under consideration could create historic districts throughout the City, without owner
consent. | reject the idea that we should establish new historic districts. We want to see San Mateo
thrive, and establishing arbitrary hurdles to remodels and new construction, will not help us evolve and
thrive.

| do not want my hard-earned tax dollars ($500K) to be used for a historical study -- the city has
higher priorities (e.g. job growth, affordable housing) and should be applying funds to think towards
the future. Also, the environment and climate are constantly changing (e.g. LA Fires), and | want San
Mateo residents to have the flexibility to remodel their homes with minimal restrictions if they want to
disaster-proof their properties (e.g. earthquake-proof, fire-proof in Highlands).

Please do not support any actions to establish more historical districts. Vote no on the proposed
Historic consultant RFP. This is not a priority for San Mateo.

Thank you for the opportunity to comment.
Michael Feng

San Mateo Resident for 21 years (total)

e Baywood Resident for 13 years
¢ Central Park Resident for 8 years

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane26
242 of 426


--- page 243 ---
21/01/2025, 15:02 l oppose going forward with the RFP proposal for historic district study. - | Outlook

lo My Outlook

| oppose going forward with the RFP proposal for historic district study.

From Ralph Garcia <_

Date Tue 1/21/2025 12:30 PM

Please do not waste city money on a historic district study. | oppose going forward with an RFP to study something
most citizens do not want.

7 _ Jr,

36 year resident.

RG2 has sent this message.

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane27
243 of 426

1/1


--- page 244 ---
21/01/2025, 15:02 My Submittal RE: January 21, 2025 City Council Agenda Item #10. i. Outlook

lo My Outlook
My Submittal RE: January 21, 2025 City Council Agenda Item #10.

Date Tue 1/21/2025 10:59 AM

To Danielle Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; mayor@cityofsanmateo.org <mayor@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob Newsom
<rnewsom @cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>;

Idiaznash @cityofsanmateo.or <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.or>; City Council (San Mateo)
<CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; Christina Horrisberger
<chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

i) 1 attachment (546 KB)

Historic Home on San Mateo Dr,jpg;

RE: Historic Policy Update Effort Professional Services = Appropriation and Agreement Please
Include Me in Tonight's Speakers and Hand This Out to Applicable City Staff, the Mayor and City
Council (with attached Photo)

January 21, 2025
Esteemed Mayor and City Council,

I am Doug Handerson, a resident of North Central San Mateo for
the past five years.

As asupporter of Peninsula for Everyone, as well as the YIMBY
group, I was again alarmed this morning when I received froma
second housing advocacy organization, an email with huge
misrepresentations of the intent of the city staff’s
recommendation regarding City Council Agenda item #10 this
evening.

Tonight, the planning staff is not proposing the initiation of an
new Historic Districts in San Mateo.

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane28 1/3
244 of 426


--- page 245 ---
245 of 426

--- page 246 ---
246 of 426

--- page 247 ---
21/01/2025, 15:02 Historic districts - Historic RFP OPPOSE RE ou 1100

lo My Outlook
Historic districts - Historic RFP OPPOSE

Frorr i <a
Date Tue 1/21/2025 1:45 PM

To = City Mar <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear San Mateo City Council Members,

I am writing to request you review carefully the proposed Historic Resources RFP and its potential
consequences. The City has higher priorities, so this proposal should not more forward.

- Parks and public safety should be higher priorities for the City.

- The City is facing a $10.6M budget shortfall, so the Council needs to prioritize its funds. A neighborhood
survey survey has already determined that Baywood residents are 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic
district.

- Anon-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City will end up spending even
more budget on litigation.

- This goes against the City's goal of fiscal responsibility. Surely, there are less expensive alternatives to
preservation goals.

In summary, I urge you to carefully consider this proposal and, at the least, defer it to a time when funds are
more available to be wisely spent to benefit all residents of the community.

Sincerely,

A Concerned Resident of San Mateo

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane29
247 of 426


--- page 248 ---
21/01/2025, 15:02 January 21, 2025 Council Meeting - EEE outlook

lo My Outlook
January 21, 2025 Council Meeting

Date Tue 1/21/2025 2:00 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <cityclerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc Laurie Hietter <_e

Dear Mayor Newsom and Members of City Council,

| urge you to support Option 1 for the Rincon Scope of Work for our city-wide historic
context study and the update of the historic preservation ordinance. Having a plan that
considers our history and aesthetics adds great quality and demand to our precious
area. We should protect and plan carefully,

We have so much worth recognizing and preserving! The recent nomination of the
Yoshiko Yamanouchi House as a historic landmark in our Central Neighborhood is a
perfect example of how we can preserve and highlight San Mateo’s history; in this case
the importance of the contributions of Japanese Americans to San Mateo.

Thank you for your careful and holistic consideration for Option 1 of the Rincon Scope of
Work.

Maurine Killough
You are not IN the Universe you ARE the universe—an intrinsic part of it.
Ultimately you are not a person, but a focal point where the universe is becoming conscious of itself. What an

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane30
248 of 426


--- page 249 ---
21/01/2025, 15:02 Historic designations - OPPOSE - a. Qutlook

fo Outlook

Historic designations - OPPOSE

Date Tue 1/21/2025 11:59 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear San Mateo City Council,

I'm strongly opposed to establishing new historic districts. If a household wishes to preserve their
household as an homage to the 1950s, they're free to do so, but to impose that restriction on their
neighbors is ludicrous. This is a nakedly transparent attempt to prevent housing from being built and
would set a terrible precedent. Cities are dynamic and vibrant, and the ability to change and adapt is
important.

Please Vote no on the proposed Historic consultant RFP. This is not a priority for San Mateo. There are
much better things we can spend our tax-payer dollars on.

Thank you for the opportunity to comment.
Jonathan New

San Mateo

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane31
249 of 426


--- page 250 ---
21/01/2025, 15:03 San Mateo Historic Preservation Ordinance - a. Outlook

lo My Outlook

San Mateo Historic Preservation Ordinance

From Oser, Roger <i

Date Tue 1/21/2025 12:59 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <cityclerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc _ Laurie Hietter <

Sir/Madame-
| am an owner of a contributor home in San Mateo'’s Baywood neighborhood.

We felt so lucky to have an opportunity to purchase this home in 1996 based on its location in
Baywood, near Downtown, its incredible 1928 architecture with seldom seen anymore arches,
wrought iron in and out, natural wood doors, Spanish tile roof and floors, and colorful tile insets
on the exterior fagade and steps... and a few blocks from where | was born and raised in 1955!

While we remodeled the inside extensively over the years, we have worked hard to modernize it
however preserve the original features of the home due to its unique qualities that are
irreplaceable in our opinion.

Many in the neighborhood have also sought to preserve these historic gems, which keeps
Baywood as a very sought after area in which to live and raise our families. Yet others have
begun to demolish these gems to build new, modern homes, many of which are lovely, however
most of which do not preserve the incredible heritage of our neighborhood.

Please let it be known that | am in full support of a Baywood Historic District to further ensure
this incredible architectural history is recognized and preserved for many generations to come.

To that end I support the Context Study and Historic Preservation Ordinance Update that is
currently being considered by the City of San Mateo.

Thank you for your consideration.

Roger

Roger Oser

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane32 1/2
250 of 426


--- page 251 ---
251 of 426

--- page 252 ---
21/01/2025, 15:03 San Mateo Park / District 1 does not need historic preservation - alternatives? hi Outlook

lo My Outlook

San Mateo Park / District 1 does not need historic preservation - alternatives?

rom Kola schiver {i

Date Tue 1/21/2025 1:32 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc = Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>

Good afternoon Council,
I'm writing in regard to item number 10 on tonight's Council agenda.

As a resident of San Mateo Park/District 1, Council Member Diaz-Nash, I'd like to specifically address
you here.

My family does NOT in any form support historical districting, and we oppose any actions by Council
that could have unintended consequences for property owners and residents in this city that will lead
to restrictions, more bureaucracy, and cost.

As very active donors, my wife and I are involved in cultural institutions up and down the Peninsula
and have donated extensively to the San Mateo Park Neighborhood Association (SPNA) to care for
and preserve our trees and islands as public spaces - which the city sadly does not have the adequate
budget for. We value history. What we do not value is government (and special interest groups)
encroaching on our private property rights as a form of development control. The city has extensive
review processes already in place to ensure development and change align with the community feel.

Most homes that carry weight in the city’s history are already listed on local, state, or federal historic
registries and are protected. The same goes for the historic downtown of San Mateo.

My wife and I would not have chosen the San Mateo Park neighborhood to purchase a multi-million
dollar property if we had known about any potential restrictions through historical preservation efforts.
These prospects scare property buyers - we know of at least 3 families that scratched San Mateo off
their list for buying single-family homes after hearing about the activities and approach of the SMHA
and potentially the city.

No one in the city has been properly consulted yet. The cited preservation support through the
General Plan input was ~30 unique individuals (most of them organized in the SMHA) over an almost
7(!) year public comment period. | believe you have already received many more letters and calls in
opposition within the past 96 hours. There is no popular support for this, and Baywood serves as a
cautionary tale here of what happens when something like this is done over people's heads.

Even if you believe this RFP and overreaching direction is the way forward, | want to remind you that
you face an almost $11M deficit this year and over $300M of unfunded critical infrastructure
investments, of which almost everything should have higher priority than this RFP. I'm ashamed to see
the state of some of our parks and playgrounds - that has a significantly bigger impact on the quality
of life and attractiveness of this city for all of us.

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane33 1/2
252 of 426


--- page 253 ---
253 of 426

--- page 254 ---
21/01/2025, 15:03 Historic Preservation Ordinance Update a: OJ Outlook

lo My Outlook

Historic Preservation Ordinance Update

From Francie Souza <>

Date Tue 1/21/2025 11:59 AM

To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <cityclerk@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc Laurie Hietter

To the City Council of San Mateo -

As a resident of San Mateo, I'm urging you to vote YES on Option 1 to approve the Rincon Scope of
Work to prepare the historic context study and update the historic preservation ordinance. Our
current ordinance is inadequate whereas the new scope will provide greater clarity to property

owners and city staff, and save time and money for both. The cost of the study is less than 1% of the
2025-2026 budget, delaying it further will only see costs increase. This scope of work will NOT
designate new historic resources or districts and will NOT impose any new burden on property owners
or halt the development of new housing projects. It will create a baseline to provide for consistent and
uniform evaluation of historic resources moving forward and increase awareness and understanding of
the factors that contribute to whether or not a property is eligible to be a historic property.

Historic preservation does not prevent housing but it enriches San Mateo and our quality of life.
Please consider the voices or residents in San Mateo as you vote on this Context Study.

Thank you,
Frances Souza

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane34
254 of 426


--- page 255 ---
21/01/2025, 15:03 Historic Preservation Project -n- Outlook

lo My Outlook
Historic Preservation Project

from Libby Tong

Date Tue 1/21/2025 12:40 PM
To = Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council Members,

As a resident of the Hayward Park neighborhood, I am writing to strongly oppose the proposed
$500,000 expenditure for historic preservation consultants coming to vote today, January 21st.

With a $10.6M deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure projects, this spending makes no sense.
Our Central Park Playground is closed, MLK Rec Center is in shambles, and other community facilities
are deteriorating. In my social circle of new parents, Central Park is a popular and safe place to allow
children to play. My friends specifically drive from other towns in the Peninsula to visit our parks. The
draw of the parks also increases revenue for the city when these visitors shop and eat at downtown
restaurants.

This project, pushed by a preservationist special interest group, appears designed to block
development and create more red tape. Similar efforts in Baywood were opposed 9-to-1 by residents.
It would effectively undermine Measure T's housing progress and put huge burdens on homeowners
and eventually increase rental prices as well.

Please prioritize our critical infrastructure needs over creating new bureaucratic barriers. Our
community needs functional parks and facilities, not more development restrictions.

These historical preservation efforts do not reflect my priorities and | oppose them.

Sincerely,
Libby Tang

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane35
255 of 426


--- page 256 ---
21/01/2025, 15:06 No to historic districts in San Mateo! - a. Outlook

lo My Outlook

No to historic districts in San Mateo!

From Dennis Yarak ~ si

Date Tue 1/21/2025 2:10 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

This is a transparent attempt to circumvent legally binding mandates to improve availability of needed
housing in this city. Voters have spoken with the passing of Measure T that more housing is essential
to the future vitality of our city.

Please do not support any actions to establish more historical districts!

Respectfully,

Dennis Yarak

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane38
256 of 426

1/1


--- page 257 ---
257 of 426

--- page 258 ---
258 of 426

--- page 259 ---
259 of 426

--- page 260 ---
260 of 426

--- page 261 ---
261 of 426

--- page 262 ---
262 of 426

--- page 263 ---
263 of 426

--- page 264 ---
264 of 426

--- page 265 ---
Me

From:

Sent: Monday, January 20, 2025 3:45 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo)

Cc: Clerk

Subject: Support Option 1 - Historic Policy Update Effort Professional Services

Dear Honorable Mayor Newson and Councilmembers,

| have been a resident of San Mateo for 37 years and urge you to please vote YES for Option 1 to
commission an historic resource context study and historic ordinance update project.

Historic Resources have been neglected by San Mateo for over 35 years now, it is time now, YES,
NOW, to understand what resources exist and how and to what extent they should be protected. The
City has committed to doing this as stated in the General Plan 2040 document — “Actively identify and
preserve historic resources and concentrations of historic resources...” (page 115 Strive San Mateo
General Plan 2040). Again, now is the time to follow through on this commitment.

We are excited that the City is interested in a robust public engagement program that will inform the
community and allow for community input. It will provide clarity on how historic properties are defined
and designated. The City, staff and public will have a clear roadmap explaining the permitting process
for proposed substantial modifications to historic resources.

Why even bother with historic resources? It is because our history is what defines us, it contributes to
our quality of life and it tells a story as to our shared culture. It is also a selfless act that provides a gift
to subsequent generations. In short, our history as manifested by our historic resources, is the soul of
our community and we need to protect it. A City that does not honor or recognize its historic past is a
City without a soul — one that is all about the present and one that caters to a greedy, self-serving
few.

Once historic resources decay or are destroyed, they are gone — that story and that dimension to our
quality of life is gone forever.

There is opposition to this project. The opponents are deliberately misrepresenting the scope of work
and the outcome of this effort — it does not prevent housing in any way. Denying this study will not
make housing more affordable in San Mateo.

There are numerous benefits to launching this effort:
This work will actually SAVE the City money and reduce risk in the long run. The resulting Context
Study and updated ordinance will provide the guidelines and eliminate the guesswork of what should

be protected and how it should be protected.

It will also guide where and how new development can occur by identifying the areas of San Mateo
that can be developed without destroying or degrading historic resources.

This will guide City staff in decision-making and helps avoid irreversible catastrophic actions that
potentially destroy historic resources and potentially embroil the City in costly legal action.
1

265 of 426


--- page 266 ---
266 of 426

--- page 267 ---
267 of 426

--- page 268 ---
January 21, 2025 
 
TO: 
Honorable Mayor Newsom 
Deputy Mayor Loraine  
Council Members Fernandez, Cwirko-Godycki and Diaz-Nash  
 
RE: 
Item 10:  Historic Policy Update Effort Professional Services – Appropriation 
and Agreement 
 
January 21, 2025 - San Mateo City Council Meeting 
 
Please Vote to APPROVE Item 10 -Option 1 as it appears on tonight’s Agenda. 
 
An annual “Blue Sky” Session is held early each year by City Council.  The purpose is for 
Council members to:  share their priorities for the Council during the coming year; 
review/discuss/update or delete items from the previous year’s list; and to gather 
input from the public on their priorities. Updating the City’s 1989 Historic Building 
Survey has consistently appeared on one, if not more, of Councilmembers’ list.  Yet, no 
forward progress has been made.  Please make a move in the positive direction by 
Approving Item 10 on tonight’s Agenda. 
  
Soon after my appointment to the Planning Commission in 2011, I requested a copy of 
the City of San Mateo Historic Building Survey Final Report, January 1989, from then 
Chief of Planning Ron Munekawa.  This survey and resulting 96 page document was a 
joint effort of the City of San Mateo’s Planning Department and the San Mateo County 
Historical Association. 
 
Common wisdom says that such documents should be updated every five years. San 
Mateo’s 1989 Survey has not been updated in 36 years; the existing San Mateo Historic 
Building Ordinance has not been updated in 32 years. 
 
Please make a move in the correct direction tonight by Approving Item 10 – Option 1. 
 
 
Thank You, 
Dianne Whitaker, Architect 
San Mateo 
 
268 of 426

--- page 269 ---
269 of 426

--- page 270 ---
270 of 426

--- page 271 ---
Council Meeting Speech 1/21/25
Jay Kuhre

| have not been allotted enough time to address my credentials or background so | will
simply include the requirement mandated by the historic process:

| declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of America that
wha if i t to say is true and correct.

| am not going to build a high rise on my property. | do not support high density housing or
commercial development in any neighborhood.

The Inconvenient Truth about historical preservation is that it takes a great deal of time and
money.

To repair or replace a historic Slate or Spanish tile roof requires that the same materials be
used. That cost is double or triple the cost of conventional.

Replacing single pane - divided light wooden window is equally cumbersome. Find it; buy it
which will take and extraordinary amount of time and money followed by continual
maintenance. Don’t forget the environmental impact of scraping, sanding, priming and
repainting every few years.

The fires in LA highlight the fact that historic homes are tinderboxes. An owner in need of
repair and or replacement will have fewer options that take longer and command higher
prices. Fire Resistant, Environmentally Friendly materials and Sprinklers name a few of what
is required by current codes.

These things don’t apply to me you say. Oh yes they do! ALL OF THIS AND MORE
HAS BEEN APPLIED TO ME!

Historic preservation should only be undertaken by owners that are aware of the
property’s historic significance before they purchase the property. They must
understand, be qualified and able to afford the time and cost of The
Inconvenient Truth

No Consent No Historic!


--- page 272 ---
Los Angeles Historic Resources Survey

GUIDE FOR PROFESSIONALS USING THE HISTORIC CONTEXT

STATEMENT FOR PROPERTY EVALUATIONS
Revised August 2020

GETTING STARTED

Los Angeles’ citywide Historic Context Statement (HCS) is designed for use by SurveyLA field surveyors
and by all agencies, organizations, and professionals completing historic resources surveys in the city of
Los Angeles.

The context statement is organized using the Multiple Property Documentation (MPD) format
developed by the National Park Service for use in nominating properties related by theme to the
National Register of Historic Places. This format provides a consistent framework for evaluating historic
resources. It has been adapted for local use to evaluate the eligibility of properties for city, state, and
federal designation programs and to facilitate environmental review processes. Familiarization with the
structure and content of the HCS is critical to applying it properly. For more information see:
http://www.nps.gov/nr/publications/bulletins/nrbi6b/.

SELECTING THE APPROPRIATE CONTEXT(s) AND THEME(s)

The first step to property evaluation is the identification of the appropriate context/theme combination
using the context statement outline available at https://planning lacity.org/preservation-design/historic-
resources/historic-themes. Note that historic contexts cover both individual resources and historic
districts.

Properties may be significant under more than one context/theme combination and surveyors and other
evaluators should use all that apply. For example, a single-family residence may be a significant example
of a Craftsman Bungalow under the context/theme “Architecture and Engineering: Arts and Crafts
Movement” and may also be the residence of a noted person in the entertainment industry under the
context/theme “Entertainment Industry: Residential Properties Associated with the Entertainment
Industry.” Or a Post WWII car wash may be a significant example of a property type under the
context/theme “Commercial Development and the Automobile: Car and Car Services” and an excellent
example of the Googie style under the context/theme “Architecture and Engineering: “Postwar
Madernism: Mid-Century Modern.”

NARRATIVE HISTORIC CONTEXTS

Theme narratives published to date are organized by context in accordance with the outline referenced
above, and are available at https: i j j
themes. In cases where the narratives are not available contact the Office of Historic Resources for
guidance.

272 of 426


--- page 273 ---
USING THE ELIGIBILITY STANDARDS, CHARACTER-DEFINING FEATURES, AND INTEGITY ASPECTS

Using the Multiple Property Documentation approach, each of the theme narratives is followed by a
discussion of related property types and their associated eligibility standards, including character-
defining/associative features and integrity aspects, which are applied in the evaluation process. (Note:
In cases where narrative context is not available contact the Office of Historic Resources for guidance.)

The eligibility standards, character-defining/associative features, and integrity aspects are guidelines for
field surveyors making property evaluations. They represent the strength of the association of a
resource to a theme and identify physical and associative features a property must have to be a good
example of a type within a theme.

e Properties do NOT need to meet ALL eligibility standards and character-defining/associative
features to be eligibie; these are guidelines based on knowledge of known significant examples
of property types.

* integrity aspects and considerations are guidelines for assessing resource integrity within a
specific context/theme. There are many variables to consider in assessing integrity depending
on WHY a resource is significant.

USING THE PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE

Periods of Significance (POS) for contexts and themes were developed early on in the SurveyLA process
to guide field evaluations and were based, at that time, on designated resources and known resources

identified through research and previous survey evaluations. Many of these have been revised/refined

based on actual survey findings and additional research conducted for developing theme narratives.

Surveyors and other evaluators are advised to use professional judgment in applying a POS to properties
as it is possible that resources may be identified over time that fall outside a POS and still meet eligibility
standards. For example, a 1961 example of Late Colonial Revival style architecture may be determined
eligible although it is outside the 1960 end date for this theme.

POS end date of 1980: The end date for SurveyLA is 1980 and, therefore, has been used as the end date
of the POS for many themes. In these cases, the end date is arbitrary and should be extended over time.
For example, the 1980 POS end date for the context/theme “Institutional Development: Social Clubs and
Organizations” should be expanded over time to include organizations and meeting places significant
beyond 1980.

273 of 426


--- page 274 ---
Good evening. My name is Richard Delaney
and | represent the

no consent.... no historic group.

When | think about tonight’s meeting | am
reminded of the Boston Tea Party and the
American Revolution. “No taxation without
representation”. The primary grievance was
most believed they were taxed by people
without having a voice in the decision. |
think we have the same situation here. We
are paying for a study we don’t want,
advocated by a small group many who are
not affected. This is exactly what is
proposed tonight. This is not what America
is about. The democratic process is about
representation at the table. Yes, it is our tax
money that we sorely need for other
projects and no, we did not get a chance to
be represented. We voted but our vote was
not heard. | ask you to put a stop to this
tonight and reject the proposal to do a
neighborhood study. () /7 (ON A

_

274 of 426


--- page 275 ---
Outlook

Urgent Appeal: SAY NO to the $500K Historic RFP

From Paul Labagh [is
Date Tue 1/21/2025 5:06 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dewirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo)
<CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,

| am writing regarding the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP. As a San Mateo resident, | have several
serious concerns:

Financial Impact:

* City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs

* $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities

* Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive initiative

Community Opposition & Consensus:

* In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting

* No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision

* City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority

Legal Concerns:

* JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format

* Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations

* Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or zoning changes

* Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede signing this RFP

Alternative Solution:

* Implement staff-driven community engagement process

* Focus on voluntary participation rather than mandatory impositions
* Develop consent-driven historic preservation ordinance

* Prioritize infrastructure benefiting all residents

| urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-driven alternative
that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
[Paul Labagh]

Sent from my iPhone

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane2 4
275 of 426


--- page 276 ---
Outlook

FW: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP

From: Karen Stokes <a>

Sent: Sunday, January 26, 2025 12:58 PM

To: Rob Newsom <mewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc:

Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP

Dear San Mateo City Council Members,

| am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.

- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.

- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend over their
priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed
historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots with too much time on their hands.

- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City will end
up spending even more budget on litigation.

- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there is a MUCH
CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.

- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own district and
all of San Mateo.

In summary, | urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive, community-
driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo

Sent from my iPhone

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane1 41
” 276 of 426


--- page 277 ---
21/01/2025, 15:25 Historic district item on tonight's agenda E- Outlook

oh Outlook
Historic district item on tonight's agenda

From Eldridge, Kary! <i
Date Tue 1/21/2025 3:03 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>;
nfernandize@cityofsanmateo.org <nfernandize@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine
<aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc = City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Members of the San Mateo City Council,

I am writing to express my concern about Item #10 on tonight’s meeting agenda, “Historic
Policy Update Effort Professional Services—Appropriation and Agreement.”

My concern is that the survey under consideration is introductory to encouraging widespread
creation of historic districts. This, in turn, would have the effect of freezing in place wide swaths
of our city and rendering them unable to respond to evolving housing needs. It would hinder
our ability to meet RHNA targets, as well as handcuffing the city as it works to reverse
historical patterns of exclusion and fulfill its obligation to Affirmatively Further Fair Housing.

As I witnessed the effort that was initiated in Baywood, I had special concern about the ability
of a handful of folks to create burdensome requirements that would apply to literally hundreds
of others. At the very least, I would hope the city would prevent this from happening in the
future. I would propose that before a neighborhood could be deemed historic, a majority of
homeowners in the neighborhood would be required to give their consent, thereby making the
process more democratic and consensus-driven.

Thank you for your consideration.

Karyl Eldridge
Vice Chair of One San Mateo

*Wire Fraud is Real*. Before wiring any money, call the intended recipient at a number you
know is valid to confirm the instructions. Additionally, please note that the sender does not have
authority to bind a party to a real estate contract via written or verbal communication.

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane42 1/1
277 of 426


--- page 278 ---
1
From:
Katrina Castillo <
>
Sent:
Monday, January 20, 2025 2:18 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Clerk
Subject:
Support for bike lanes
Hello City Council, 
 
I am a San Mateo resident and constituent. I would like to voice my support for bike lanes and urge the 
city council to not remove bike lanes on Humboldt Street. 
 
As we move forward into the future with our changed climate, we should be encouraging more people to 
use bikes, not discourage them by making it unsafe to use a bicycle. 
 
We should not be prioritizing cars over people. 
 
Thank you, 
Katrina Castillo 
278 of 426

--- page 279 ---
From: Support User

To: Clerk
Subject: Fwd: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date: Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:43:12 PM

w--------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Amy Hansell
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 4:42 PM
Subject: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP

To: <mewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,

—8 <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Ce:

Dear San Mateo City Council Members,

| am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic
Resources RFP.

- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.

- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that
you approved this spend over their priorities. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a
small group of Zealots with too much time on their hands.

- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create
unnecessary bureaucracy and the City will end up spending even
more budget on litigation.

- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on
fiscal responsibility and there is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to
historic preservation goals.

- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes
against the will of her own district and all of San Mateo.

In summary, | urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and
support a less expensive, community-driven alternative that serves
all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
A Concerned Parent and Taxpayer of San Mateo

Sent from my iPhone. Please pardon any typos/auto correct errors.

279 of 426


--- page 280 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: City council members: please SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:49:41 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Anna McLean <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 1:29 PM
Subject: City council members: please SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>,
aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>,
nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: 
 <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Sent from my iPhone
Attention: This message is sent by a law firm and may contain information that is privileged or
confidential. If you received this transmission in error, please notify the sender by reply e-mail
and delete the message and any attachments.
280 of 426

--- page 281 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: Subject: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:48:46 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Anna Yun <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 10:39 AM
Subject: Subject: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this
spend over their priorities. Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic
district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots with too much time on
their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy
and the City will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility
and there is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of
her own district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less
expensive, community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not
just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Parent and Taxpayer of San Mateo
281 of 426

--- page 282 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: District 3 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:56:17 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Ashley Frambach <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 9:01 PM
Subject: URGENT: District 3 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear Mayor Newsom and San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT spending ANY money on historic surveying in San
Mateo.
- There are SO MANY more important parks and safety priorities for the City. I would much
rather see these funds go toward park and playground improvements for neighborhood
children.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
without their input and over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall.
Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a
small group of zealots who obsess about other people’s houses.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility especially
when there are MUCH CHEAPER alternatives to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message. She already goes against the will of her own
district and would likely go against our wishes on this as well.
In summary, I urge you to REJECT spending ANY budget on historic surveys.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Sent from my iPhone
282 of 426

--- page 283 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: District 2 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:57:33 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Barbara Pavicic <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 10:28 PM
Subject: URGENT: District 2 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey 
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>, ICE <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
We are respectfully calling on you to REJECT spending ANY money on the proposed Historic
Resources RFP or any other historic surveying in San Mateo.  We live near Borel Middle
Svhool and believe this survey is an unnecessary expenditure, put forward by a very small and
self-serving vocal group called the San Mateo Heritage Alliance.  When Baywood
homeowners overwhelmingly rejected the no-consent historic districting by a ratio of 9 to 1,
the group switched to a new tactic to control houses and remodels in the entire City of San
Mateo via a local “historic resources survey.”
This survey is very expensive and not needed.  It can also be very harmful, as insurance
companies drop houses receiving  historic significance designations. It can also add more
bureaucracy and increase costs on sensible owners upgrading their property.
Please prioritize safety, security and infrastructure as you allocate scarce resources. And use
this opportunity to put an end to the manuvering of this very small group of zealots.  
Thank you for your consideration.
Barbara and Nikola Pavicic
- There are SO MANY more important parks and safety priorities for the City.
283 of 426

--- page 284 ---
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
without their input and over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall.
Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a
small group of zealots who obsess about other people’s houses.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility especially
when there are MUCH CHEAPER alternatives to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message. She already goes against the will of her own
district and would likely go against our wishes on this as well.
In summary, I urge you to REJECT spending ANY budget on historic surveys.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Sent from my iPhone
284 of 426

--- page 285 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:47:30 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Beryl Kim Tang <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 8:40 AM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Sent from my iPhone
285 of 426

--- page 286 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: Please vote NO on the Historic Resources Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:49:52 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Brad Goodwin <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 1:54 PM
Subject: Please vote NO on the Historic Resources Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>, <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members, 
Please REJECT the proposed Historic Resources Survey RFP. 
As a long time Baywood resident I deeply value its unique character and have invested in my home to
preserve that character for myself and my community. Recently a small group tried to force a Baywood 
Historic District upon 440 Baywood residents without their knowledge or consent in an extraordinary anti-
democratic process. Our Baywood neighborhood mobilized itself and voted 9 to 1 against the historic
district. The amount of grassroots effort needed to overturn this misguided effort was immense and a vocal
rejection of its NIMBY-ism and authoritarianism.
Councilperson Linda Diaz Nash, as the District 1 represenative, I would have thought you would have been
sufficiently in touch with your constituents to know their opposition to the Baywood Historic District and
would have led the efforts to overturn. Unfortunately that was a missed opportunity. Instead you have
turned your attention to advancing another disconnected-from-voter-will overreach: this wasteful Historical
Resources RFP. It is my hope you will reflect on the clear voice of your constituents and adjust your
priorities for San Mateo accordingly, withdrawing this proposal.
Mayor Newsom, I welcome your stated focus on fiscal responsibility. Please use that to identify simpler and
less expensive alternatives for targeted historic preservation goals. 
In summary, I urge all council members vote NO on the Historic Survey RFP. Please find a less expensive, 
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents. 
Sincerely, 
Brad Goodwin
286 of 426

--- page 287 ---
From: Support User

To: Clerk
Subject: Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date: Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:43:30 PM

w--------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Brian Kilroy
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 5:33 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP

To: <mewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,

<dewirkogodycki@citvofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Ce: >

Dear San Mateo City Council Members,

I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.

- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.

- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.

- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.

- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.

- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.

In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,

Brian and Gillian Kilroy

Sent from my iPhone

287 of 426


--- page 288 ---
From: Support User

To: Clerk

Subject: Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date: Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:56:00 PM

Attachments: image983034.png

wo-n------ Forwarded message ---------

From: Brooks Stough >

Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 8:06 PM

Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP

To: mewsom@cityofsanmateo.org <mewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>,
aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
dewirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org <dewirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>,

nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org <nfernandez(@citvofsanmateo.org>
Ce: >

Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.

- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.

- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.

- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.

- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.

- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.

In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo

Sent from my iPhone

Brooks Stough

Direct:
Silicon Valley

1?

288 of 426


--- page 289 ---
Primary Office: 
This email and any attachments may contain private, confidential and privileged material for the sole use of the intended recipient.
If you are not the intended recipient, please immediately delete this email and any attachments.
289 of 426

--- page 290 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:48:36 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: CAROL PERUSSE <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 10:27 AM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
The city council should not be involved in nor should the taxpayers pay for a private bid for
historical designation. Individuals can apply for it on their own if they think it is such a good
idea. Others should not be forced into something they do not want.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic resources RFP. Surely the city has more
important issues to spend time and money on!  
Sincerely, 
Carol Perusse
290 of 426

--- page 291 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: Urgent Appeal: REJECT the $500K Historic RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:59:48 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Casey Dougan <
>
Date: Tue, Jan 21, 2025 at 11:05 AM
Subject: Urgent Appeal: REJECT the $500K Historic RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP. As a
San Mateo resident, I have several serious concerns:
**Financial Impact:**
• City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs
• $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities
• Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive initiative
**Community Opposition & Consensus:**
• In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting
• No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision
• City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority
**Legal Concerns:**
• JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format
• Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations
• Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or zoning changes
• Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede signing this
RFP
**Alternative Solution:**
• Implement staff-driven community engagement process
• Focus on voluntary participation rather than mandatory impositions
• Develop consent-driven historic preservation ordinance
• Prioritize infrastructure benefiting all residents
I urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-
driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
Casey Dougan
291 of 426

--- page 292 ---
292 of 426


--- page 293 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:48:28 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Cecilia Wong <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 10:16 AM
Subject: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities. Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one
wants this except a small group of zealots with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Parent and Taxpayer of San Mateo
293 of 426

--- page 294 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:44:04 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Charlene Alfson <
>
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 6:17 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
294 of 426

--- page 295 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:55:25 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Susie <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 7:10 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
Charles and Suzanne Schafer
Concerned Residents of San Mateo
295 of 426

--- page 296 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: VOTE NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Resources RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:58:12 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Chris Battles <
>
Date: Tue, Jan 21, 2025 at 4:56 AM
Subject: URGENT: VOTE NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Resources RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Subject: Opposition to the Proposed Historic Resources RFP
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to strongly urge you to REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP, as it
does not align with the will of the community or the city’s most pressing priorities.
Key considerations:
Lack of Baywood Community Support: The Baywood community voiced
overwhelming opposition to the proposed historic district, with a 9-to-1 stance against
it. Support for this initiative appears limited to a small, highly vocal group.
Fiscal Responsibility & City Priorities: This initiative contradicts Mayor Newsom’s
commendable focus on prudent financial management.  Approving this expenditure in
the face of a $10.6 million budget shortfall will likely generate significant -- and well
deserved -- anger among your constituents.  Our resources should be allocated to higher-
priority initiatives such as public safety and parks, which better reflect the needs and
expectations of our community. 
Unnecessary Bureaucracy and Risk: The proposed non-consensual historic survey
introduces unnecessary bureaucracy and could expose the city to increased legal costs,
further straining the budget and personnel.
Better Alternatives: There are more cost-effective alternatives available to achieve
historic preservation goals without burdening taxpayers.
[Note: Lisa Diaz Nash has been intentionally omitted from this message as she ignores the will
of her own district and all of San Mateo.]
In closing, I strongly request that you VOTE "NO" against the Historic Resources RFP.
Respectfully,
Christopher Battles
Concerned Baywood Resident
,
296 of 426

--- page 297 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: Urgent Appeal: REJECT the $500K Historic RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:42:09 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Christine Barulich <
>
Date: Sat, Jan 18, 2025 at 10:38 AM
Subject: Urgent Appeal: REJECT the $500K Historic RFP
To: <alorraine@cityofsanmateo.org>, <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP. As a San Mateo
resident, I have several serious concerns:
**Financial Impact:**
• City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs
• $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities
• Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive initiative
**Community Opposition & Consensus:**
• In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting
• No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision
• City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority
**Legal Concerns:**
• JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format
• Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations
• Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or zoning changes
• Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede signing this RFP
**Alternative Solution:**
• Implement staff-driven community engagement process
• Focus on voluntary participation rather than mandatory impositions
• Develop consent-driven historic preservation ordinance
• Prioritize infrastructure benefiting all residents
I urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-driven
alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
Christine Barulich 
297 of 426

--- page 298 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: REJECT the $500K Historic RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 8:00:53 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Christine Montenegro <
>
Date: Tue, Jan 21, 2025 at 2:22 PM
Subject: REJECT the $500K Historic RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: 
 <
>
Dear Mayor Newsome and City Council Members,
I am a 61 year old native resident of San Mateo. Our great city is in dire need of multiple
internal infrastructure projects such as the outdated and broken sewage system which affect
me and my family.
We already have a million dollar plus budget deficit. Please do not waste money to hire a
$500,000.00 consultant for the historical district of our city. This would be a complete
waste of funds that could be better spent on vital projects which are necessities such as parks
and facilities maintenance and repairs. 
Furthermore, I believe that the homeowners should be able to make their own decisions
regarding their personal property.
Please REJECT the historic RFP!!!
Sincerely,
Christine Naples Montenegro, MA
298 of 426

--- page 299 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:59:56 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Crystal Matye <
>
Date: Tue, Jan 21, 2025 at 1:40 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Crystal Matye
299 of 426

--- page 300 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: District 3 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:52:23 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Daniel Schonberg <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 5:00 PM
Subject: URGENT: District 3 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear Mayor Newsom and San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT spending ANY money on historic surveying in San
Mateo.
- There are SO MANY more important parks and safety priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
without their input and over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall.
Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a
small group of zealots who obsess about other people’s houses.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility especially
when there are MUCH CHEAPER alternatives to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message. She already goes against the will of her own
district and would likely go against our wishes on this as well.
In summary, I urge you to REJECT spending ANY budget on historic surveys.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
--
Dan Schonberg
300 of 426

--- page 301 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:59:10 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Daniela N <
>
Date: Tue, Jan 21, 2025 at 8:51 AM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members, 
 I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP. - Parks and safety
should be higher priorities for the City. 
Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend over
their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST
the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots with too much
time on their hands. 
This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.  This goes against Mayor Newsom's
much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to
historic preservation goals. 
 Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo. In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and
support a less expensive, community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not
just a vocal minority.
 Sincerely, 
 A Concerned Resident of San Mateo  
301 of 426

--- page 302 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:57:43 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Darren Woulfe <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 11:35 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority
Darren Woulfe
Baywood Resident
Sent from my iPhone
302 of 426

--- page 303 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:44:35 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Derek Cummings <
>
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 7:09 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>,
aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>,
nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: 
 <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members, 
 
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP. 
 
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City. 
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands. 
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the
City will end up spending even more budget on litigation. 
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and
there is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals. 
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo. 
 
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Derek Cummings
 
 
303 of 426

--- page 304 ---
304 of 426

--- page 305 ---
From: Support User

To: Clerk
Subject: Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date: Tuesday, February 11, 2025 8:01:48 PM

wannna---- Forwarded message ---------
From: Don Holland
Date: Tue, Jan 21, 2025 at 5:01 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP

To: <mewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,

<dewirkogodycki@citvofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Ce: >

Dear San Mateo City Council Members,

I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.

- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City. We also need to address climate
change and social services for the economically disadvantaged.

- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.

- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.

- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.

- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.

In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely, Don Holland

AC — a of San Mateo

305 of 426


--- page 306 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:53:06 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Elaine Salinger <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 5:33 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Elaine Salinger, San Mateo County Chapter Leader 
Citizens Climate Lobby
306 of 426

--- page 307 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: District 2 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 8:01:42 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Els <
>
Date: Tue, Jan 21, 2025 at 4:41 PM
Subject: URGENT: District 2 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT spending ANY money on historic surveying in San
Mateo.
- There are SO MANY more important parks and safety priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
without their input and over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall.
Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a
small group of zealots who obsess about other people’s houses.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility especially
when there are MUCH CHEAPER alternatives to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message. She already goes against the will of her own
district and would likely go against our wishes on this as well.
In summary, I urge you to REJECT spending ANY budget on historic surveys.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Sent from my iPhone
307 of 426

--- page 308 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:52:56 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Erin Livingston <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 5:32 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members, 
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP. 
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City. 
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands. 
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation. 
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals. 
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo. 
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority. 
Sincerely, 
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
308 of 426

--- page 309 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:46:39 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Erin Stallings <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 7:43 AM
Subject: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.  Our CENTRAL PARK
PLAYGROUND is currently closed and I’ve been WAITING 12 years FOR
IMPROVEMENTS!! 
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities. Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one
wants this except a small group of zealots with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Parent and Taxpayer of San Mateo
Sent from my iPhone
309 of 426

--- page 310 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:48:08 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Esmat Rafizadeh <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 9:41 AM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members, 
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP. 
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City. 
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend 
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1 
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots 
with too much time on their hands. 
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the 
City will end up spending even more budget on litigation. 
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and 
there is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals. 
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own 
district and all of San Mateo. 
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive, 
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority. 
Sincerely, 
Esmat Rafiezadeh, A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
310 of 426

--- page 311 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 8:00:00 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Ex Sx <
>
Date: Tue, Jan 21, 2025 at 2:00 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
311 of 426

--- page 312 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:43:56 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Floyd Alfson <
>
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 6:16 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
312 of 426

--- page 313 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: District 5 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 8:01:16 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Gary Phipps <
>
Date: Tue, Jan 21, 2025 at 3:39 PM
Subject: URGENT: District 5 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT spending ANY money on historic surveying in San
Mateo.
- There are SO MANY more important parks and safety priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
without their input and over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall.
Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a
small group of zealots who obsess about other people’s houses.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility especially
when there are MUCH CHEAPER alternatives to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message. She already goes against the will of her own
district and would likely go against our wishes on this as well.
In summary, I urge you to REJECT spending ANY budget on historic surveys.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Gary Phipps 
313 of 426

--- page 314 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: I urge you to vote NO on ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:47:13 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Gene Alston <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 8:01 AM
Subject: I urge you to vote NO on ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>,
aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>,
nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: 
 <
>
Dear Members of the San Mateo City Council,
I am writing to express my opposition to the proposed allocation of $500,000 for developing a
historic context statement for the Baywood neighborhood. While I understand the importance of
preserving our city’s history, I believe this expenditure is neither necessary nor justifiable at this
time, especially given competing priorities and the lack of consensus among residents.
Concerns Regarding the Proposed Allocation
1. Cost vs. Benefit
Spending half a million dollars on a historical context statement seems disproportionate to
the potential benefits. Many cities achieve similar outcomes through more cost-effective
means, such as public-private partnerships or leveraging grant funding from preservation
organizations. Allocating such a large sum from the city's budget could divert resources
from essential services like public safety and infrastructure which currently have a $306
Million funding gap.
2. Community Division
The proposal has already caused significant division within the Baywood neighborhood and
beyond. Many residents are concerned about the implications of a historic designation,
including potential restrictions on property rights, increased maintenance costs, higher
insurance premiums, and lack of homeowner consent in any designation. In fact, as
measured by the objections received by the State Office of Historic Preservation, we know
that Baywood homeowners object to the historic district 9:1 over those that support
it. Moving forward with this expenditure without broader community support risks further
polarizing the neighborhood. 
3. Uncertain Outcomes
It is unclear whether creating a historical context statement will bring tangible benefits to the
city or its residents. Without a clear roadmap for how this document would enhance the
neighborhood or contribute to citywide goals, the expenditure appears premature and
speculative.  As we’ve seen, a few individuals have sought to circumvent any local process
through their filing with the State. Certainly, based on the stated goals of this group, they
seemed to be poised to leverage the historical context statements paid for by the City to
314 of 426

--- page 315 ---
make their own Historical District Designations with the State.

Call to Action

| urge the Council to reconsider this allocation and prioritize more pressing needs that have a
direct and measurable impact on the well-being of San Mateo residents. If there is a genuine
interest in preserving Baywood’s history, | encourage the Council to pursue cost-efficient,
inclusive, and community-supported approaches that respect the diverse perspectives of those
who call this neighborhood home (not an expensive study paid for by a historical consultant who
stands to benefit from a local designation). At a minimum, we must incorporate homeowner
consent in any designation process as a fundamental safeguard for homeowner property rights -
No Consent, No Historic.

Thank you for considering my concerns. Please take this feedback into account as you deliberate
on this matter.

Sincerely,
Gene Alston

315 of 426


--- page 316 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:47:40 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Gerald Stokes <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 9:06 AM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>,
aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>,
nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: 
 <
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Sent from my iPhone
316 of 426

--- page 317 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:42:30 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Hanish Rathod <
>
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 12:12 PM
Subject: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities. Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one
wants this except a small group of zealots with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
Hanish 
A Concerned Parent and Taxpayer of San Mateo 
317 of 426

--- page 318 ---
From: Support User

To: Clerk
Subject: Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date: Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:58:12 PM

wonn------ Forwarded message ---------
From: Heather Brien
Date: Tue, Jan 21, 2025 at 4:08 AM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP

To: <mewsom( @cit yofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cit yofsanmateo.org>,

<dewirkogodycki@citvofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Ce: >

Dear San Mateo City Council Members,

>

| am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.

- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.

- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this
spend over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was
9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group
of zealots with too much time on their hands.

- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and
the City will end up spending even more budget on litigation.

- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility
and there is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.

- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of
her own district and all of San Mateo.

In summary, | urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less
expensive, community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just
a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
Heather Brien

Heather Brien

318 of 426


--- page 319 ---
319 of 426

--- page 320 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:57:56 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Heather Brien <
>
Date: Tue, Jan 21, 2025 at 4:04 AM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: 
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members, 
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP. 
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City. 
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands. 
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the
City will end up spending even more budget on litigation. 
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and
there is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals. 
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo. 
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority. 
Sincerely, 
Heather Brien, A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
320 of 426

--- page 321 ---
From: Support User

To: Clerk
Subject: Fwd: Urgent Appeal: REJECT the $500K HIstoric RFP
Date: Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:48:56 PM

---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Heidi Bianchi
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 11:02 AM
Subject: Urgent Appeal: REJECT the $500K HIstoric RFP

To: <mewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,

__—€§ <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Ce: >

Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,

>

| am writing to request you REJECT the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP. As a San Mateo
resident, | have several serious concerns:

**Financial Impact:**

* City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs

* $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities

« Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive initiative

**Community Opposition & Consensus:**

« In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting

* No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision

* City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority

**Legal Concerns:**

« JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format

* Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations

* Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or zoning changes

* Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede signing this RFP

**Alternative Solution:**

« Implement staff-driven community engagement process

* Focus on voluntary participation rather than mandatory impositions
« Develop consent-driven historic preservation ordinance

+ Prioritize infrastructure benefiting all residents

| urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-driven
alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,

Heidi and Aldo Bianchi
Residents of San Mateo

321 of 426


--- page 322 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: District 2 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:50:56 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Helaine Blumenthal <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 4:10 PM
Subject: URGENT: District 2 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT spending ANY money on historic surveying in San
Mateo.
- There are SO MANY more important parks and safety priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
without their input and over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall.
Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a
small group of zealots who obsess about other people’s houses.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility especially
when there are MUCH CHEAPER alternatives to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message. She already goes against the will of her own
district and would likely go against our wishes on this as well.
In summary, I urge you to REJECT spending ANY budget on historic surveys.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Sent from my iPhone
322 of 426

--- page 323 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:48:21 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: James Isaacs 
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 10:12 AM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members, 
Thank you for all of your hard work looking out for our interests.  I and my family have
lived iin San Mateo since 1989.  My wife and I raised our family here.  We
appreciate how you have effectively managed change and expansion so well.
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP. 
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City. 
- My understanding is that we have a $10 Million deficit. on our budget right now.  It
seems uunwise to do this RFP.  Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic
district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots with too much time on their
hands. 
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and
the City will end up spending even more budget on litigation.   We have lived in San
Mateo Park for 20 years and in Baywood for 8 years before that and Shoreview before
that.  I think the gambit on historic district will create a lot of restriction on building,
upgrading and remodeling.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and
there is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals. 
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal
minority. 
323 of 426

--- page 324 ---
Sincerely, 
James Isaacs
A long term San Mateo Resident
324 of 426

--- page 325 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:45:59 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Jeane Makar <
>
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 10:20 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Sent from my iPhone
325 of 426

--- page 326 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: Please REJECT the wasteful Historic Resources Survey
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:50:24 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Joanne Spetz <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 2:36 PM
Subject: Please REJECT the wasteful Historic Resources Survey
To: rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>,
aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>,
nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: 
 <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members, 
 
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP. 
 
This is an unwise and wasteful use of our city resources.  City resources should be prioritized
for traffic, parks, and safety. 
 
Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend over
their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. The Baywood neighborhood was
9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of
people who do not represent the majority of homeowners.  
This proposed historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City will end up
spending even more budget on litigation. The proposed survey goes against Mayor Newsom's
much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there are much less expensive alternatives
to historic preservation goals, including standard processes associated with permitting
remodeling and renovations.
 
Please note that I have not included Lisa Diaz Nash from this message because she is on
record as supporting this RFP, even though it does not align with the preferences of members
of her own district. 
 
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority. 
 
Sincerely, 
Joanne Spetz
326 of 426

--- page 327 ---
327 of 426

--- page 328 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: Vote NO on Historic Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:44:16 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Joe Godfrey <
>
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 6:27 PM
Subject: Vote NO on Historic Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
San Mateo City Council Members,
Spending $500k on a "historic resources survey" seems like a tremendous waste of money.
The San Mateo Heritage Alliance ran an incredibly misleading process to try and sneak
through an application for Baywood to become a historic district, and once residents were
actually engaged and informed, they OVERWHELMING objected. Lisa Nash and her
husband were central to this effort, and now it feels like Mrs Nash is trying a different path to
prioritize her own desires over the wishes of her own constituents. 
There is no demonstrated broad community support for establishing historic designation to
areas of San Mateo. Our taxpayer funds should be applied to the things our citizens need and
want - improved parks, public safety, schools, Fire, Police, and public works. San Mateo has
lots of needs that require government funds. A back-door attempt to subvert the will of a
community who have stated resoundly that they do NOT want historic designation is not one
of them.
Sincerely,
Joe Godfrey
San Mateo resident, Little League board member, PTA board member, and concerned citizen
328 of 426

--- page 329 ---
From: Support User

To: Clerk
Subject: Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date: Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:49:09 PM

wo-n------ Forwarded message ---------
From: Joe Volponi
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 11:38 AM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP

To: <mewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,

<dewirkogodycki@citvofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Support User >

Dear San Mateo City Council Members

| AM WRITING TO REQUEST YOU REJECT THE PROPOSED HISTORIC RESOURCES
RFP. | OPPOSE ANY ESTABLISHMENT OF BLANKET HISTORIC DISTRICTS
WITHOUT OWNER CONSENT.

I’m not opposed to historical things, but the world changes rapidly whether we like it or not.
Trying to keep things static in a dynamic environment doesn’t make sense. Changes often
happen in ways we never foresee. For most people, their home is their most valuable
asset and the owners need to have the flexibility to make changes to their property to
accommodate the specific needs of their family. With all the change we've seen in our
lifetime and the impact it has had on the requirements for our homes (i.e., additional rooms
for the home office, larger garage needs, increased demand for technology, etc.), isn't it
reasonable to think that the requirements for our homes will need to change going forward
in ways we can't even imagine today?

On top of that, consider the criteria required for an historic designation that aren't being
met:

1. Baywood is a wonderful neighborhood, but as a whole, it isn’t associated with events
that have made a significant contribution to local or regional history.

2. | don’t know the history of every home in Baywood and some may be associated with
a person that made a significant contribution to local, California or national history, but if
that is the case the owners of those homes have the absolute right to apply for an historical
designation.

3. Homes must embody the distinctive characteristics of a certain period or method of
construction that represents the work of a master or has high artistic values. Baywood is
an eclectic mix of homes built at different times with many substantially remodeled along
the way.

When it is clear that Baywood shouldn't qualify for an Historic District designation on its
merit, one certainly has to question the motivation of those who push for it. Are they just
seeking control? The proponents would have you believe that it imposes no restrictions on
homeowners. That completely defies logic and common sense. If that were the case, why
have it at all?

If Baywood becomes a National Historical District, many hidden consequences come with it
for both current homeowners and future owners. It severely restricts the improvements a
homeowner can make, creates a more bureaucratic approval process and ultimately

329 of 426


--- page 330 ---
lengthens the time required and cost to make home improvements.  Further, it burdens all
future owners with unreasonable limitations.  This adversely impacts resale value.  When a
potential buyer realizes that they can’t modify the home to meet the changing needs of their
family, they will not buy the property.  Most significantly, it grants a small committee the
authority to impose requirements on homeowners without regard to practicality, difficulty, or
the cost that will be borne by the homeowner.
A historic district designation is not something we need.  The majority of Baywood
residents oppose it.  Consequently, it is an issue that is dividing our community without a
lot of upside and potentially significant downside.  Individual homeowners purchase homes
in Baywood for a variety of reasons but virtually all of them are looking to increase their
property values.  They should be the ultimate deciders as to what happens to their
properties.  There isn’t a shred of evidence to suggest that the new construction in
Baywood has done anything other than enhance property values. 
From an insurance standpoint, California is in the midst of a serious homeowner insurance
crisis.  Evidence of this is the exponential growth in applications to the California FAIR Plan
(the insurer of last resort for individuals that can’t get coverage in the voluntary market). 
Many companies have left the state entirely while some of the largest remaining companies
have non-renewed huge numbers of existing policies and stopped writing new business
altogether.  All these actions make homeowners insurance difficult, if not impossible, for
individuals to get.  Even if coverage is available, it has become extraordinarily expensive. 
The recent fires in Los Angeles County are almost certain to make this situation far worse. 
For most people, their home is their most expensive asset and it is a scary proposition
when they struggle to find ways to protect it.   
In a market where availability is already an issue exacerbated by the levels of bureaucracy;
it makes no sense to impose the restrictions that come with Historic Districting.  At a
minimum, it severely restricts the improvements a homeowner can make, creates a more
extensive approval process and ultimately lengthens the time required and cost to rebuild
or remodel.  This is the very thing that insurers are objecting to now.  Historic homes are
often more costly to insure than modern homes because they generally are constructed
with older, rarer, and more expensive materials that aren’t common in modern
homebuilding.  Furthermore, historic homes are typically constructed using labor intensive
methods that require specialized craftsmen and can be slower than modern construction
methods. 
Even if you are able to insure your home today, that may not be the case going forward in a
dynamic market.  Insurance companies often have different underwriting rules for “renewal”
business than they do for “new” business.  Therefore, if a home has been covered by an
insurer for a number of years, the agent may have latitude to treat it differently than a piece
of “new” business with the same characteristics.  In other words, if that same home were
sold, and the new owners approached the very same carrier, they might get a very
different answer.  This is a problem all homeowners could face when they ultimately try to
sell their home and the potential buyer can’t get coverage (at least 13% of real estate
agents in California had a contract canceled in 2024 when a buyer couldn't get insurance). 
Also, since some companies have already said they would not renew a policy if it were in a
historic district, carriers that accept business today could easily change their stance over
time.  There is a limit to the amount of exposure a single company can take on in a given
area.  If other companies pull out, a small number of remaining companies couldn't afford to
be the writer for all that is left.  Once they see their competitors refusing to write this
business, they would almost certainly tighten their stance.
In an already troubled market made worse by unwieldy regulation, if there is even the
possibility that creating a Historic District designation would either limit the availability or
increase the cost of coverage, it just doesn’t make sense. It simply isn’t necessary to
impose a blanket designation on all Baywood homeowners or any other
neighborhood without their permission. 
330 of 426

--- page 331 ---
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority. 
The city has far higher priorities, especially with a $10.6M budget shortfall! 
Sincerely
Joe Volponi
 
331 of 426

--- page 332 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: District 2 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:52:59 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: John ODA <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 5:33 PM
Subject: URGENT: District 2 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT spending ANY money on historic surveying in San
Mateo.
- There are SO MANY more important parks and safety priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
without their input and over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall.
Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a
small group of zealots who obsess about other people’s houses.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility especially
when there are MUCH CHEAPER alternatives to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message. She already goes against the will of her own
district and would likely go against our wishes on this as well.
In summary, I urge you to REJECT spending ANY budget on historic surveys.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
John Oda
332 of 426

--- page 333 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP 
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:45:03 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: John-Katy Bejarano <
>
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 7:45 PM
Subject: Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP 
To: rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>,
aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>,
nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>, CC:
<
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members, 
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP. 
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City. 
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands. 
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the
City will end up spending even more budget on litigation. 
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and
there is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals. 
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo. 
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority. 
Sincerely, 
Katy Bejarano, a concerned resident of Baywood
333 of 426

--- page 334 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:57:11 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Joyce Chow <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 9:45 PM
Subject: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities. Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one
wants this except a small group of zealots with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Parent and Taxpayer of San Mateo
Sent from my iPhone
334 of 426

--- page 335 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:44:47 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Kamal Nabijee <
>
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 7:38 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
K A M A L   N A B I J E E
335 of 426

--- page 336 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:47:45 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Karen E. Hummel <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 9:08 AM
Subject: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities. Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one
wants this except a small group of zealots with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Parent and Taxpayer of San Mateo
336 of 426

--- page 337 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:50:00 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Karen Stokes <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 2:13 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>,
aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>,
nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: 
 <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Sent from my iPhone
337 of 426

--- page 338 ---
From: Support User

To: Clerk
Subject: Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date: Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:43:49 PM

w--------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Kathy Liberatore
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 6:07 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP

To: <mewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,

<dewirkogodycki@citvofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Ce: >

Dear San Mateo City Council Members,

>

I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.

- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.

- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.

- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.

- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.

- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.

In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
Kathy Liberatore

A Concerned Resident of San Mateo 38 years

Sent from my iPhone

338 of 426


--- page 339 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: REJECT the $500K Historic RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 8:02:21 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: <
>
Date: Wed, Jan 22, 2025 at 7:24 PM
Subject: REJECT the $500K Historic RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP. 
Really, this is just silly.
 
Does the majority of the neighborhood really want this? I don’t think so.
 
Is this a high priority for city funds? I don’t think so.
 
Are there less expense options?  Others have been proposed.
I urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-
driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
Kevin Laughlin and Kathleen Navarra
 
339 of 426

--- page 340 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:45:42 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Lance Smith <
>
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 10:04 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP. As a local
business owner/operator, which services close to 2,500 families in the City of San Mateo
through youth programs and offerings - this is a nonsensical use of funds which takes away
from the enrichment within the City.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City. Why would we as tax payers waste
this capital on a survey to combat a guided vote against this movement? Would these funds
not be better suited to enable our community development - perhaps the youth and families
our business serves immediately and directly?  
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. 
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo as well as a local business owner operating in the City of
San Mateo.
340 of 426

--- page 341 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: Fw: REJECT THE $500K HISTORIC RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:40:34 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Lauren Lum <
>
Date: Fri, Jan 17, 2025 at 4:09 PM
Subject: Fw: REJECT THE $500K HISTORIC RFP
To: dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: 
 <
>
Please see the below
----- Forwarded Message -----
From: Lauren Lum <
>
To: rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org
<aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; dcirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org
<dcirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: 
 <
>
Sent: Friday, January 17, 2025 at 04:03:27 PM PST
Subject: REJECT THE $500K HISTORIC RFP
Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP. As a long-time San
Mateo resident, I have several serious concerns:
**Financial Impact:**
• City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs
• $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities
• Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive initiative
**Community Opposition & Consensus:**
• In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting
• No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision
• City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority
**Legal Concerns:**
• JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format
• Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations
• Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or zoning changes
• Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede signing this RFP
**Alternative Solution:**
• Implement staff-driven community engagement process
• Focus on voluntary participation rather than mandatory impositions
• Develop consent-driven historic preservation ordinance
• Prioritize infrastructure benefiting all residents
I urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-driven
341 of 426

--- page 342 ---
alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
Lauren Lum 
342 of 426

--- page 343 ---
From: Support User

To: Clerk
Subject: Fwd: REJECT the $500K Historic RFP - Urgent Appeal
Date: Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:50:33 PM

wo-n------ Forwarded message ---------
From: Lynn Fischbach
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 3:10 PM
Subject: REJECT the $500K Historic RFP - Urgent Appeal

To: <mewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,

__—€§ <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Ce: >

Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,

>

| am writing to request you REJECT the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP. As a San Mateo
resident, | have several serious concerns:

**Financial Impact:**

* City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs

* $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities

« Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive initiative

**Community Opposition & Consensus:**

« In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting

* No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision

* City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority

**Legal Concerns:**

« JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format

* Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations

« Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or Zoning changes

* Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede signing this RFP

There are so many more important things we should be spending the city’s money on like schools, roads,
more fire and police staff.

With all of the new condos that are going up it seems contradictory to then require homes to be historical.
Not a good use of our very limited funds.

| urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-driven
alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
Lynn Fischbach

343 of 426


--- page 344 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:55:12 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: marialena roussere <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 6:34 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>,
aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>,
nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: 
 <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
Marialena Malejan-Roussere 
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Sent from my iPhone
344 of 426

--- page 345 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:49:16 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Mark Pietrofesa <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 11:42 AM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Mark Pietrofesa 
Sent from my iPhone
345 of 426

--- page 346 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:58:29 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Mary Crawford <
>
Date: Tue, Jan 21, 2025 at 7:57 AM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: 
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
346 of 426

--- page 347 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:45:49 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: <
>
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 10:19 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Mary Gerritsen 
Baywood homeowner and 27 year resident if San Mateo
Sent from my iPhone
347 of 426

--- page 348 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:44:55 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Matthew Wes <
>
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 7:39 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members, 
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP. 
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City. 
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group. 
- This non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City will
end up spending even more budget on litigation. 
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and
there is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals. 
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo. 
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority. 
Sincerely, 
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
-- 
Matthew Wes
348 of 426

--- page 349 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: District 2 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:59:37 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Matthew Bugna <
>
Date: Tue, Jan 21, 2025 at 10:45 AM
Subject: URGENT: District 2 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT spending ANY money on historic surveying in San
Mateo.
- There are SO MANY more important parks and safety priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
without their input and over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall.
Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a
small group of zealots who obsess about other people’s houses.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility especially
when there are MUCH CHEAPER alternatives to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message. She already goes against the will of her own
district and would likely go against our wishes on this as well.
In summary, I urge you to REJECT spending ANY budget on historic surveys.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
349 of 426

--- page 350 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:54:30 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Maureen Goldrath <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 6:29 PM
Subject: RFP
To: rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>,
aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>,
nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: 
 <
>
Subject: 
Urgent Appeal: REJECT the $500K Historic RFP
Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP.
As a San Mateo resident, I have several serious concerns:
**Financial Impact:**
• City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs
• $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities
• Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive
initiative
**Community Opposition & Consensus:**
• In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting
• No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision
• City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority
**Legal Concerns:**
• JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format
• Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations
• Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or zoning changes
• Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede
signing this RFP
**Alternative Solution:**
• Implement staff-driven community engagement process
• Focus on voluntary participation rather than mandatory impositions
• Develop consent-driven historic preservation ordinance
• Prioritize infrastructure benefiting all residents
350 of 426

--- page 351 ---
I urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal
minority. 
Thank you
Maureen
351 of 426

--- page 352 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:45:22 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: P Mayers <
>
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 8:42 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
352 of 426

--- page 353 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:57:02 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Michael Ischay <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 9:43 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of
individuals with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
353 of 426

--- page 354 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:53:49 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Michael Flynn 
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 5:41 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>,
aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>,
nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: 
 <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members, 
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP. 
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City. 
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district.We do not want this.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the
City will end up spending even more budget on litigation. 
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and
there is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals. 
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo. 
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority. 
Sincerely, 
A Concerned Resident of Baywood, San Mateo
354 of 426

--- page 355 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:55:45 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 7:25 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>, Michele Cinq Mars 
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members, 
Please REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP. 
I am concerned that you are considering the expenditure of $500,000 on a Historic Resources
RFP, when we are facing a $10.6 million dollar budget shortfall. San Mateo residents do not want,
or need, their neighborhoods turned into Historic Districts. When a Historic District was proposed
for Baywood, residents voted 9 to 1 AGAINST this classification in District 1. Additionally,
- A historic survey will use financial and administrative resources the City does not have. 
- There are CHEAPER, BETTER, and more DEMOCRATIC ways to pursue historic preservation.
- Parks and public safety are pressing priorities that require more resources. 
- Lisa Diaz Nash is not representing the will of our District in this matter. The small group of
residents who want Historic Districts, do not reflect the opinions of the majority of residents in our
community. 
I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP! A less expensive, community-driven alternative
should meet the needs of all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority. 
Sincerely, 
Michele A. Cinq Mars
A Concerned City of San Mateo and Baywood Knolls Resident
355 of 426

--- page 356 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:49:31 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Michelle Hudson <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 1:14 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members, 
I am writing to request that you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP for the 
following reasons:
Other matters should be higher priorities for the city, such as addressing the climate 
crisis, parks, safety and housing.  
Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this 
spend over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 
9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small 
group of residents who wish to circumvent the will of the majority. 
This non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City 
will end up spending even more budget on litigation. 
This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility. 
Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her 
own district and all of San Mateo. 
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive, 
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority. 
Sincerely, 
Michelle Hudson
Baywood Resident
356 of 426

--- page 357 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:46:15 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Michelle Quinn <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 2:51 AM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Sent from my iPhone
357 of 426

--- page 358 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:50:15 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Mignon O'Young <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 2:35 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
358 of 426

--- page 359 ---
From: Support User

To: Clerk
Subject: Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date: Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:52:39 PM

wo-n------ Forwarded message ---------
From: Mike Feng
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 5:11 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP

To: <mewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,

<dewirkogodycki@citvofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@citvofsanmateo.org>
Ce: >

Dear San Mateo City Council Members,

| am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.

e Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.

e Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this
spend over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was
9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small
group of zealots with too much time on their hands.

This unneeded non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and
the City will end up spending even more budget on litigation.

This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility
and there is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.

Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her
own district and all of San Mateo.

In summary, | urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,

-Michael Feng
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo

359 of 426


--- page 360 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:46:50 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Mo Lehman 
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 7:57 AM
Subject: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities. Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one
wants this except a small group of zealots with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Parent and Taxpayer of San Mateo
360 of 426

--- page 361 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:47:56 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Mohammad Jahangoshahi <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 9:32 AM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members, 
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP. 
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City. 
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend 
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1 
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots 
with too much time on their hands. 
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the 
City will end up spending even more budget on litigation. 
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and 
there is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals. 
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own 
district and all of San Mateo. 
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive, 
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority. 
Sincerely, 
Mohammad Jahangoshahi, A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
361 of 426

--- page 362 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:46:07 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Douglas Morais <
>
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 10:21 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Douglas and Christiane Morais
Sent from my iPad
362 of 426

--- page 363 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:52:46 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Nancy Trio <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 5:28 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Sent from my iPhone
363 of 426

--- page 364 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 8:01:25 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Nancy Whelan <
>
Date: Tue, Jan 21, 2025 at 4:39 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: 
 <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members, 
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP. 
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City. 
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands. 
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the
City will end up spending even more budget on litigation. 
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and
there is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals. 
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo. 
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority. 
Sincerely, 
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
364 of 426

--- page 365 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:46:29 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Nkia Richardson <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 7:22 AM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo 
365 of 426

--- page 366 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:50:08 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Oliver Shay <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 2:34 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
366 of 426

--- page 367 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:44:24 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Patty Anixter <
>
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 6:53 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Patty Anixter
367 of 426

--- page 368 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:54:15 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Peter Stone <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 6:16 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members, 
 
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.  I can’t believe that you
are wasting tax dollars on this where there are much more important issues that need to be
addressed.  For example, our roads, especially El Camino Real, are in terrible condition.  In addition,
the Parks and Public Safety should be higher priorities for the City. 
 
Every year my property taxes increase, and I don’t see any improvement in our community.  In my
view, you increase taxes, give yourselves raises, and accomplish nothing! Quit wasting money!  This
non-consent historic survey will only add to government bureaucracy and accomplish nothing! I am
sick of “too much government” – federal, state, and local.
 
I understand that you already have a $10.6 MM budget shortfall, and you want to spend $500K on a
moronic study?  Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. Do your jobs and try
doing “more with less!”
 
I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive, community-driven
alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Peter R. Stone
368 of 426

--- page 369 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: Urgent Appeal: REJECT the $500K Historic RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:42:47 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Elisa Radice <
>
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 3:33 PM
Subject: Urgent Appeal: REJECT the $500K Historic RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>, <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP. As a
San Mateo resident, I have several serious concerns:
**Financial Impact:**
• City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs
• $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities
• Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive initiative
**Community Opposition & Consensus:**
• In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting
• No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision
• City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority
**Legal Concerns:**
• JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format
• Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations
• Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or zoning changes
• Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede signing this
RFP
**Alternative Solution:**
• Implement staff-driven community engagement process
• Focus on voluntary participation rather than mandatory impositions
• Develop consent-driven historic preservation ordinance
• Prioritize infrastructure benefiting all residents
I urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-
driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
Elisa Radice
369 of 426

--- page 370 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: Vote NO on ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:54:08 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Rebecca Smith <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 5:55 PM
Subject: URGENT: Vote NO on ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- At a time when the city is running a budget deficit, it makes no sense to spend scant
resources on this survey. The City should prioritize spending on parks and safety.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over priorities that are critical to the quality of life in San Mateo. The overwhelming majority
of Baywood residents are AGAINST the proposed historic district (by 9:1). A small minority
of residents should not get to force their will on the majority.
- This non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and it will likely
result in additional ongoing costs to the City as it is litigated.
- This initiative runs counter to Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal
responsibility. Moreover,  there is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to achieve these historic
preservation goals.
- I have deliberately omitted Lisa Diaz Nash from this message as she is ignoring the will of
her own district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Parent and Taxpayer of San Mateo
370 of 426

--- page 371 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: Vote No on wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:59:19 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Richard Dickson <
>
Date: Tue, Jan 21, 2025 at 10:10 AM
Subject: Vote No on wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, Adam Loraine
<aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>, dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: 
 <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
I, and many other of your constituents, will be angry should they find out that you approved
this spend over other priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall.  Baywood was 9
to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands. Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she
goes against the will of her own district and all of San Mateo.  Her hypocrisy is shameful, and I
predict that she will be voted out of office soon enough. 
This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy, and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
VOTE NO on the Historic Resources RFP.  If any of you vote in favor of such a measure, I
respectfully request that you write me to explain your decision including why you prioritized
spending money on it over the many other priorities of our community.
Sincerely,
Richard Dickson
CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This email and its attachments contain information that may
371 of 426

--- page 372 ---
be confidential and/or privileged. If you are not the intended recipient you may not copy,

disclose or use the contents of this email. If you believe that you have received this email in
error, notify the sender or cot and then delete or
ents.

destroy any copy of this email and its attac

372 of 426


--- page 373 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:58:53 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Rick Bonilla <
>
Date: Tue, Jan 21, 2025 at 8:22 AM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>, Alex Khojikian
<akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>, PRASANNA RASIAH <prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org>,
Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members, I am writing to STRONGLY DEMAND that you
REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP. - Parks and safety should be higher priorities
for the City. - Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved
this spend over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9
to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of
zealots with too much time on their hands. - This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will
create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City will end up spending even more budget on
litigation. - This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility
and there is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals. - Lisa Diaz Nash is
omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own district and all of San
Mateo. In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less
expensive, community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal
minority. 
Sincerely,
Rick Bonilla 
Chair, Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County
Former Mayor, City of San Mateo 
Director, Housing Action Coalition 
373 of 426

--- page 374 ---
From: Support User

To: Clerk
Subject: Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date: Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:55:17 PM

wannna---- Forwarded message ---------
From: Rob DeContreras
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 6:59 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP

To: <mewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,

<dewirkogodycki@citvofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Ce: >

Dear San Mateo City Council Members,

>

I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.

- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.

- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.

- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.

- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.

- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.

In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo

photo Rob DeContreras

Mobile SS | Enail
Website is
Adres;
|
a Bo) @| @ @

374 of 426


--- page 375 ---
[3]

375 of 426


--- page 376 ---
From: Support User

To: Clerk
Subject: Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date: Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:43:42 PM

w--------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Robert Liberatore
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 6:04 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP

To: <mewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,

<dewirkogodycki@citvofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Ce: >

Dear San Mateo City Council Members,

>

I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.

- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.

- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.

- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.

- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.

- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.

In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
Robert Liberatore

AC — <n of San Mateo

38 years

376 of 426


--- page 377 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:42:38 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Ryan Chow <
>
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 2:13 PM
Subject: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities. Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one
wants this except a small group of zealots with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Parent and Taxpayer of San Mateo
377 of 426

--- page 378 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:47:21 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Sandy Jensen <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 8:12 AM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Sent from my iPhone
378 of 426

--- page 379 ---
From: Support User

To: Clerk
Subject: Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date: Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:48:01 PM

wannna---- Forwarded message ---------
From: Sara Shahi
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 9:38 AM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP

To: <mewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,

<dewirkogodycki@citvofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Ce: >

Dear San Mateo City Council Members,

| am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.

- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.

- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of Zealots
with too much time on their hands.

- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the
City will end up spending even more budget on litigation.

- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and
there is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.

- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.

In summary, | urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
Sara Shahi, A Concerned Resident of San Mateo

379 of 426


--- page 380 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: Item 10 - Historic Designations Work - OPPOSE
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:41:37 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Nancy Schneider <
>
Date: Fri, Jan 17, 2025 at 5:11 PM
Subject: Fwd: Item 10 - Historic Designations Work - OPPOSE
To: <
>
This is the email that I sent to the city council.
Nancy Schneider
 
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Nancy Schneider <
>
Date: Thu, Jan 16, 2025 at 4:23 PM
Subject: Item 10 - Historic Designations Work - OPPOSE
To: <citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Dear Members of the San Mateo City Council,
I am writing to  you as a resident of San Mateo and a homeowner in the Baywood
neighborhood.  I oppose the designation of Baywood as an historic district for a multitude of
reasons, primarily that I don't think the neighborhood should be exempt from policies to
increase housing production in San Mateo.  Every neighborhood should do its part.  
I acknowledge that this agenda item is not concerned with Baywood specifically, but about
hiring the consultant for the historic work and deciding on which option.
I urge you to pick Option 3  and not approve an appropriation Resolution or an agreement with
Rincon Consultants and vote not to
proceed with the historic policy update effort at this time.  .
We have worked to pass good housing laws, both at the state and local levels, and a
historic district would undermine these laws, as well as our general plan and newly-
minted Measure T. Please do not support any actions to establish more historical
districts.San Mateo has many more pressing concerns.  The money allocated for this project
could be put to better use. 
Thank you for the opportunity to provide my input.  
Nancy  Schneider
380 of 426

--- page 381 ---
Nancy Schneider

381 of 426


--- page 382 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: Please Reject the Proposed Historic Resources RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:46:45 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Joel Scott <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 7:57 AM
Subject: Please Reject the Proposed Historic Resources RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to urge you to reject the proposed Historic Resources RFP. Approving this
measure would divert attention and resources away from more pressing priorities for our city,
such as parks and safety, while further exacerbating the $10.6 million budget shortfall.
Key concerns include:
1. Fiscal Responsibility: This proposal is at odds with Mayor Newsom’s focus on fiscal
responsibility. There are far more cost-effective ways to achieve historic preservation
goals that better balance the needs of the broader community.
2. Misaligned Priorities: Parks and public safety are far more critical to San Mateo
residents. Allocating funds to this RFP disregards the needs and desires of the
community, as evidenced by the overwhelming 9-to-1 opposition in Baywood to the
proposed historic district.
3. Increased Litigation and Bureaucracy: A non-consensual historic survey will likely
lead to costly legal challenges and create layers of unnecessary bureaucracy, further
straining the city’s resources
4. Community Backlash: Approving this initiative risks alienating your constituents, who
will rightly feel that their priorities have been overlooked in favor of a small but vocal
group advocating for this costly and unnecessary measure.
Finally, I want to highlight my deep disappointment with Councilmember Lisa Diaz Nash for
ignoring the clear opposition of her own district and the broader San Mateo community on this
issue.
In summary, I urge you to vote NO on the Historic Resources RFP and instead pursue a less
expensive, community-driven alternative that reflects the priorities of all San Mateo residents
—not just a small minority.
Thank you for your time and consideration.
382 of 426

--- page 383 ---
Sincerely,
Joel Scott
Concerned Resident of San Mateo
383 of 426

--- page 384 ---
From: Support User

To: Clerk
Subject: Fwd: Urgent Appeal: REJECT the $500K Historic RFP
Date: Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:40:49 PM

w--------- Forwarded message ---------
From: John Segall
Date: Fri, Jan 17, 2025 at 4:56 PM
Subject: Urgent Appeal: REJECT the $500K Historic RFP

To: mewsom@cityofsanmateo.org <mewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>,
aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
dewirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org <dewirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>,
nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>, CC:

Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,

| respectfully urge you to reject the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP. As a San
Mateo Baywood resident for more than 50 years, | believe the proposed expenditure
would be a complete waste of taxpayer funds. Moreover, should this matter end up in
the court system, the cost to the taxpayers could easily exceed the $500,000 figure. A
constitutional challenge to the entire process used in this controversy to date is not
difficult to imagine.

| have no problem if an individual homeowner wishes to have his/her property
designated as a historic site. But why should my wife and | be required to participate? |
understand | am not alone in feeling this way. Why would you alienate most of the voters
in Baywood by proceeding with an ill conceived proposal put forth by a few local
homeowners? Surely the Council can come up a better use for these funds.

If the members of this Council are planning to support this proposal, | would urge them
to reconsider.

Sincerely,

John B. Segall

384 of 426


--- page 385 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: PLEASE VOTE NO to ridiculous Historic Designation for San Mateo
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:53:39 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Selena Trotter <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 5:37 PM
Subject: PLEASE VOTE NO to ridiculous Historic Designation for San Mateo
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I strongly urge you to vote against the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
The City should focus on more pressing issues like parks and public safety.
I think approving this expenditure will anger your constituents, particularly in light of
the $10.6 million budget shortfall. Baywood residents were overwhelmingly opposed to
the proposed historic district, with a 9-to-1 majority against it. This initiative is being
pushed by a small, overly passionate group—not the broader community.
The proposed non-consent historic survey will add unnecessary red tape and likely lead
to costly litigation, further straining the budget.
Mayor Newsom's focus on fiscal responsibility has been appreciated, and this proposal
contradicts that. There are much more cost-effective ways to achieve historic
preservation goals.
I am excluding Lisa Diaz Nash from this message because her stance does not reflect
the views of her district or San Mateo.
In conclusion, I would like to ask you to vote NO on the Historic RFP and instead explore a
more affordable, community-centered alternative that aligns with the needs and priorities of all
San Mateo residents.
Thank you for your consideration.
Sincerely,
Selena Trotter
385 of 426

--- page 386 ---
From: Support User

To: Clerk
Subject: Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date: Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:56:09 PM

wannna---- Forwarded message ---------
From: shawn
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 8:27PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP

To: mewsom@cityofsanmateo.org <mewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>,
aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
dewirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org <dewirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>,

nfernandez@citvofsanmateo.org <nfernandez(@citvofsanmateo.org>
Ce: >

Dear San Mateo City Council Members,

>

I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.

- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.

- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.

- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.

- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.

- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.

In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.

Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo

386 of 426


--- page 387 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 8:01:04 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Shelly DeCorte <
>
Date: Tue, Jan 21, 2025 at 3:08 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Sent from my iPhone
387 of 426

--- page 388 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: District 2 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:54:00 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Stacey Kepler <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 5:53 PM
Subject: URGENT: District 2 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear Mayor Newsom and San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT spending ANY money on historic surveying in San
Mateo.
- There are SO MANY more important parks and safety priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
without their input and over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall.
Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a
small group of zealots who obsess about other people’s houses.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility especially
when there are MUCH CHEAPER alternatives to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message. She already goes against the will of her own
district and would likely go against our wishes on this as well.
In summary, I urge you to REJECT spending ANY budget on historic surveys.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Stacey Kepler
388 of 426

--- page 389 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: District 5 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:51:19 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Stephanie Moy <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 4:56 PM
Subject: URGENT: District 5 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT spending ANY money on historic surveying in San
Mateo.
- There are SO MANY more important parks and safety priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
without their input and over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall.
Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a
small group of zealots who obsess about other people’s houses.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility especially
when there are MUCH CHEAPER alternatives to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message. She already goes against the will of her own
district and would likely go against our wishes on this as well.
In summary, I urge you to REJECT spending ANY budget on historic surveys.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
389 of 426

--- page 390 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: District 3 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:51:50 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: stephanie 
<
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 4:56 PM
Subject: URGENT: District 3 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
To: rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>,
aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>,
nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: 
 <
>
Dear Mayor Newsom and San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT spending ANY money on historic surveying in San
Mateo.
- There are SO MANY more important parks and safety priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
without their input and over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall.
Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a
small group of zealots who obsess about other people’s houses.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility especially
when there are MUCH CHEAPER alternatives to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message. She already goes against the will of her own
district and would likely go against our wishes on this as well.
In summary, I urge you to REJECT spending ANY budget on historic surveys.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
390 of 426

--- page 391 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: “Historic” neighborhoods? Not this again!
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:53:26 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Stephen Howard-Sarin <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 5:34 PM
Subject: “Historic” neighborhoods? Not this again!
To: <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>, <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>, <ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear City Council,
Please reject the proposed funding for an RFP to analyze classification of any San Mateo
neighborhoods as historic districts. It’s a badly veiled attempt to block housing expansion,
which is so crucially important to our future as a community.
I’ve seen such a groundswell of resident opposition to the idea that whole neighborhoods in
our city are “historic” — surely you have seen it also? While it might be tempting to kick the
can, allocate funding to study options, and return to this topic (much) later, please don’t. Just
stop this undemocratic, bad faith, busybody intrusion into our lives once and for all.
— Stephen Howard-Sarin
391 of 426

--- page 392 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:51:07 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: <
com>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 4:48 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Sent from my iPhone
392 of 426

--- page 393 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:59:01 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Rustard Mustard <
>
Date: Tue, Jan 21, 2025 at 8:51 AM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>, <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>, Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>,
PRASANNA RASIAH <prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org>, Zachary Dahl
<zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>, citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org
<citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members, 
I strongly  implore you to REJECT the proposed Historic Resources Request For Proposals on tonight's
agenda.   
There is a $10.6M budget shortfall. 
This is absolutely NOT any type of priority if 9 to 1 Baywood residents are against the proposal of
making their neighborhood a historic district. It is my strongly held belief that, once informed, all San
Mateo residents would reject this proposal. 
Mayor Newsom wants fiscal responsibility. So Council step up to the plate and put an end to this
divisive chaos that you will be continuing to instigate. Instead find a way to solve the deficit. 
Once again,VOTE NO on the Historic Request for Proposals. 
Sincerely,
Dr. Suzanne Bonilla 
San Mateo Resident 
393 of 426

--- page 394 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: District 3 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:55:33 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Tim D <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 7:16 PM
Subject: District 3 SAYS NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey spending
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear Mayor Newsom and San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT spending ANY money on historic surveying in San
Mateo.
- There are more important parks and safety priorities for the City.
- This ridiculous historic survey creates unnecessary bureaucracy and the City will end up
spending even more budget on litigation. I’ve seen ridiculous turn around times for permits
from other families with our current processes and can’t imagine it getting worse. 
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility especially
when there are more pressing needs facing San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to REJECT spending ANY budget on historic surveys.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo 
394 of 426

--- page 395 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:45:31 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Priya Varma <
>
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 9:04 PM
Subject: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities. Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one
wants this except a small group of zealots with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
Priya Varma, MD, MPH 
A Concerned Taxpayer of San Mateo 
395 of 426

--- page 396 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: Urgent Appeal: REJECT the $500K Historic RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:40:15 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Anya Wes 
>
Date: Fri, Jan 17, 2025 at 3:05 PM
Subject: Fwd: Urgent Appeal: REJECT the $500K Historic RFP
To: <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>, Anya Wes <
>
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Anya Wes <
>
Date: Fri, Jan 17, 2025 at 3:01 PM
Subject: Urgent Appeal: REJECT the $500K Historic RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>, Anya Wes <
>
Dear Honorable Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed $500,000 Historic Resources RFP. As a
San Mateo resident, I have several serious concerns:
**Financial Impact:**
• City faces $10.6M budget deficit and $306M in unfunded infrastructure needs
• $500,000 could be better spent on deteriorating parks and facilities
• Less than 0.03% of San Mateo's 101,327 residents are driving this expensive initiative
**Community Opposition & Consensus:**
• In Baywood, 9 out of 10 residents weighing in oppose historic districting
• No broad community consensus exists for such a consequential decision
• City has conducted no community outreach to determine if this is a citywide priority
**Legal Concerns:**
• JMBM Attorneys warn of permanent, irreversible consequences in this RFP format
• Historical context statement with potential for CEQA obligations
• Potential impacts exceed those of general plan or zoning changes
• Council is putting the cart before the horse - community outreach should precede signing this
RFP
**Alternative Solution:**
• Implement staff-driven community engagement process
396 of 426

--- page 397 ---
• Focus on voluntary participation rather than mandatory impositions
• Develop consent-driven historic preservation ordinance
• Prioritize infrastructure benefiting all residents
I urge you to vote NO on this $500,000 RFP and instead support a less expensive, community-
driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
Anya Wes
397 of 426

--- page 398 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:52:32 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Whitney Kirschbrown <
>
Date: Mon, Jan 20, 2025 at 5:08 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear Mayor Newsom and San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT spending ANY money on historic surveying in San Mateo.
- There are SO MANY more important parks and safety priorities for the City. Especially Sunnybrae Park!!
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend without their input and
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed
historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots who obsess about other people’s houses.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City will end up spending
even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility especially when there are
MUCH CHEAPER alternatives to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message. She already goes against the will of her own district and would likely
go against our wishes on this as well.
In summary, I urge you to REJECT spending ANY budget on historic surveys.
Sincerely,
Whitney Kirschbrown, a Concerned Resident of San Mateo
398 of 426

--- page 399 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:43:21 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: rick.wysong <
>
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 5:32 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Sent from my iPhone
399 of 426

--- page 400 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 8:00:47 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Yao <
>
Date: Tue, Jan 21, 2025 at 2:17 PM
Subject: URGENT: Parks over wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities. Baywood was 9 to 1 AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one
wants this except a small group of zealots with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Parent and Taxpayer of San Mateo
Sent from my iPhone
400 of 426

--- page 401 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:45:13 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Yuanxuan Wang <
>
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 8:41 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
401 of 426

--- page 402 ---
From:
Support User
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
Date:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 7:44:41 PM
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Will Howekamp <
>
Date: Sun, Jan 19, 2025 at 7:19 PM
Subject: URGENT: SAY NO to wasteful ‘Historic’ Survey RFP
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: <
>
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
I am writing to request you REJECT the proposed Historic Resources RFP.
- Parks and safety should be higher priorities for the City.
- Your District Constituents will be angry when they find out that you approved this spend
over their priorities especially given the $10.6M budget shortfall. Baywood was 9 to 1
AGAINST the proposed historic district. No one wants this except a small group of zealots
with too much time on their hands.
- This ridiculous non-consent historic survey will create unnecessary bureaucracy and the City
will end up spending even more budget on litigation.
- This goes against Mayor Newsom's much welcomed focus on fiscal responsibility and there
is a MUCH CHEAPER alternative to historic preservation goals.
- Lisa Diaz Nash is omitted from this message because she goes against the will of her own
district and all of San Mateo.
In summary, I urge you to VOTE NO on the Historic RFP and support a less expensive,
community-driven alternative that serves all San Mateo residents, not just a vocal minority.
Sincerely,
A Concerned Resident of San Mateo
Sent from my iphone
402 of 426

--- page 403 ---
Historic Policy Update Effort
Professional Services -
Appropriation and Agreement

City Council
January 21, 2025

Zachary Dahl, Director
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager

Community Development Department

403 of 426


--- page 404 ---
Presentation
Overview

¢ Historic Policy Effort
Background

¢ Consultant Selection Process
(RFP)

¢ Rincon Consulting -
Introduction and Presentation

¢ Options for Council
Consideration

404 of 426


--- page 405 ---
Background — General Plan Adoption

¢ General Plan 2040 adopted March 2024
¢ Includes Community Design and Historic Resources Element

¢ Goal CD-5 - Preserve historic and culturally important
resources to maintain San Mateo’s special identity and
continuity with the past.

¢ 7 policies and 6 actions to support this goal

¢ Significant community Interest and comments on historic
policies during adoption process

¢ Focus on how districts designated and definition of contributor
resources

¢ Baywood Historic District Nomination submitted to State Office of
Historic Preservation in October 2023

ri 1
Me
CHAPTER 5

Community Design and Historic
Resources Element

‘SAN
we SAN MATEO
aoe GENERAL PLAN 2040

405 of 426


--- page 406 ---
Background — Historic Policies and Actions

Policy CD 5.1 - Comprehensive Approach to Historic Preservation.

Implement a comprehensive approach to historic preservation based on community input and
best practices from State and federal agencies, to find an appropriate balance between
preservation with other important priorities, such as affordable housing production and
supporting local businesses.

Action CD 5.8 - Historic Preservation Ordinance.

Update the City’s Historic Preservation Ordinance to create a framework for the designation of
historic resources and districts, establish review and permitting procedures for historic
alterations, demolitions or relocations, be consistent with federal and State standards and
guidelines, and align with the other goals and policies outlined in this Element.

Action CD 5.9 - Historic Resources Context Statements.

Prepare a citywide historic context statement to guide future historic resource survey efforts to
identify individually eligible resources and historic districts. If a neighborhood is identified as a
historic district, prepare a more detailed historic context statement for that individual

,, neighborhood. (Scope of work does not address second sentence)

4 of 23

406 of 426


--- page 407 ---
Background — Definitions

¢ Historic Preservation Ordinance — A local statute that provides regulations to
applicable nistoric properties.
¢ San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.66
¢ Ordinance last updated in 1993/1995

° Does not align with current standards and best practices; lacks definitions and
clear processes

¢ Historic Context Statement — A written document to organize information on
the history of an area, commonly organized by theme, place, or time.

¢ Historic Resources Survey — A process for identifying, recording, and
evaluating historic properties within a community, project area

(neighborhood), or region through the physical search for and recording of
historic resources on the ground.

407 of 426


--- page 408 ---
Nn

ie
Me ¥
a

i Be.
Ee

Background — City Council Study Session

¢ City Council Historic Policy Study Session — June 17, 2024

¢ Considered three options
¢ Option 1: Prioritize Implementation of Citywide Historic Policy Update
¢ Option 2: Update Internal Historic Review Processes
¢ Option 3: Maintain Current Prioritization (approx. five years out)

¢ Directed staff to proceed with Option 1
¢ Update Historic Preservation Ordinance and prepare a Citywide Historic Context
Statement (Actions CD 5.8 and CD 5.9) with robust community outreach and engagement
¢ Includes retention of a qualified historic consultant to support effort

¢ Bring back implementation plan for Council consideration

408 of 426


--- page 409 ---
Consultant Selection Process

August 2024 — Request for Proposals (RFP) published through OpenBid

September 2024 — 7 proposals received, reviewed against 5 criteria
Quality/ Responsiveness of Proposal;
Experience with Similar Engagements;
Professional Experience
Approach and Methodology; and
Cost

October 2024 — Interviewed top 2 consultants

Rincon Consulting identified as best proposal to support City effort

¢ Based on overall professional experience, quality of proposal, responses to
interview questions, composition of the consultant team, and total cost

January 2025 — City Council consideration of Consultant Agreement

409 of 426


--- page 410 ---
Options for City Council Consideration

Option 1 - Approve a Resolution to appropriate $328,743 from the Advance
Planning Fund to the Historic Policy Update project; approve an agreement with
Rincon Consultants for community outreach, historic policy and code
amendment technical support; and authorize the City Manager to execute the
agreement in substantially the form presented.

Option 2 - Approve a Resolution to appropriate $394,450 from the Advance
Planning Fund to the Historic Policy Update project; approve an agreement with
Rincon Consultants for community outreach, historic policy and code
amendment technical support; and authorize the City Manager to execute the
agreement in substantially the form presented.

Option 3 - Do not approve an appropriation Resolution or an agreement with
Rincon Consultants and vote not to proceed with the historic policy update effort

at this time.
8 of 23

410 of 426


--- page 411 ---
Introduction to Rincon
Consultants, Inc



--- page 412 ---
30

YEARS

RINCON CONSULTANTS, INC. SINCI

Historic Preservation
Policy Services

412 of 426


--- page 413 ---
Topics of Discussion

¢ Overview of Rincon

Project Scope Review

e Preservation Ordinance vs.
Historic Context Statement

e Project Sequence Options
e Schedule

Rincon Consultants, Inc. * Celebrating 30 Years 1/23/2025 41

413 of 426


--- page 414 ---
About Rincon

30 Years in Business
13 Offices in California
400+ Project Awards

Project or Client Name

Sacramento

Oakland
San Jose

Monterey THESIS

San Luis Obispo

Santa Barbara Los Angeles
Ventura (HQ) Riverside
Palm Springs
Carlsbad
San Diego
1/23/2025 12

414 of 426


--- page 415 ---
Our Team

Margo Nayyar JulieAnn Murphy Kassandra Gale, AICP Steven Treffers
Cultural Resources Senior Architectural Community Engagement Senior Architectural
Principal Historian/PM Program Manager Historian

James Williams Michelle Ashley Losco Josh Bevan
Architectural Anderson Architectural Architectural
Historian Architectural Historian Historian
Historian
Rincon Consultants, Inc. * Celebrating 30 Years 1/23/2025 13

415 of 426


--- page 416 ---
Relevant Experience

e Santa Clara County Parks Unused
Structures Project

° Agoura Hills Historic Survey and
Cultural Heritage Ordinance

e City of Riverside’s Latino Historic
Context

° City of Long Beach Citywide
Historic Context Statement

° Bakersfield RISE 2045
Community Engagement Program

Rincon Consultants, Inc. * Celebrating 30 Years

1/23/2025

416 of 426

14


--- page 417 ---
Project Scope:
Preservation Ordinance

e Understand existing conditions
° Conduct research and analysis

e Provide information on owner consent
provisions

e Establish clear nomination and review
process

° Identify if historic policy documents
would be appropriate

° Provide options and recommendations

Rincon Consultants, Inc. * Celebrating 30 Years 1/23/2025 15

417 of 426


--- page 418 ---
Project Scope:
Citywide Historic Context Statement

e Identify relevant historical and
architectural themes at a citywide level

° Provide framework for a living
document to grow with the City

e Use the framework to write the context
e Roadmap for future work

Rincon Consultants, Inc. * Celebrating 30 Years 1/23/2025 16

418 of 426


--- page 419 ---
Project Scope:
Community Outreach and Engagement

¢ Outreach and Engagement Strategy and Delivery
° Focus groups

* Community meetings Sa
e Study session

e Results Summary Measuring
7 Reach

Participatory Engagement

Method
—_ Ecosystem

Mutual Learning
Reciprocal & Awareness
Community
Partnerships

Rincon Consultants, Inc. * Celebrating 30 Years 1/23/2025 17

419 of 426


--- page 420 ---
Project Scope:
Implementation Plan

° Document implementation goals
° Identify strategies to achieve goals
° Outline timelines for enacting each strategy

¢ Define roles and responsibilities for each
stage of implementation

° Develop trainings and materials for City staff
to ensure successful administration

Rincon Consultants, Inc. * Celebrating 30 Years

1894 Map of San Mateo County

Source: Library of Congress

1/23/2025 18

420 of 426


--- page 421 ---
Preservation Ordinance vs. Historic Context Statement

e Preservation ordinances typically include:
° A provision for a reviewing body
e An explanation of the designation criteria

° A provision for granting economic hardship
waiver

e Guidelines for maintenance

3" Avenue, 1948 Source: Online Archive of California

Rincon Consultants, Inc. * Celebrating 30 Years 1/23/2025 19

421 of 426


--- page 422 ---
Preservation Ordinance vs. Historic Context Statement

e Historic context statements:

° Highlight trends and patterns critical to the
understanding the built environment

° Provide framework/consistency for evaluating a
property for historic significance and integrity

° Organized into a series of contexts and
themes/subthemes

° Context > Theme > Sub-theme ~> Associated Property Type [ij

> Registration requirements a

¢ They do not:
* Evaluate individual or groups of properties San Mateo Library Under Construction, 1968
e Result in changes to the historic resources inventory ne
e Include an in-depth survey effort

Rincon Consultants, Inc. * Celebrating 30 Years 1/23/2025 20

422 of 426


--- page 423 ---
“ Project Sequence

e Concurrent Work e Successive Work
° Allows for efficiencies ¢ Recommend ordinance before HCS
* Allows for a more holistic approach ° Integrate information from updated

* Avoids community input fatigue ordinance nto HCS oo,
© Avoids confusion ¢ Would result in longer project timeline

and increased project costs

Rincon Consultants, Inc. * Celebrating 30 Years 1/23/2025 21

423 of 426


--- page 424 ---
Project Schedule

Months After NTP 4. 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 114 12 13 14
Task 1 - Kickoff and Project Management Kickoff at 2 Weeks - Ongoing
Task 2 - Ordinance and HCS Research and Analysis

Task 3 - Community Outreach and Engagement

Task 5 - Commission/City Council Hearings

Task 6 - Implementation Plan

Months After NTP i 2 a 4 5 6 7 & 9 1 06410C222_—sd5 48 5 16 18 8615

Task 1- Kickoff and Project Management
Task 2 > Ordinance Research and Analysis | 4-2Mo. |
Tesk3-Communty Oweech sed crescent ret remem  yumeiemeeenrrery renters

Task 4 - Odinance Development

Task 5 - Commission, Cry Gowneil Hearings
Task 6 -HCS Research and Analysis

Task 7 -HCS Gevelopmeni

Task 8 - Implementation Plan a

Rincon Consultants, Inc. * Celebrating 30 Years 1/23/2025 22

424 of 426


--- page 425 ---
“ Budget

e Concurrent Work e Successive Work
° 15% contingency - $328,743 ° 15% contingency - $394,450

e 20% increase
¢ Increased project management time
¢ Additional outreach activities
¢ Rate increases for new fiscal year

Rincon Consultants, Inc. * Celebrating 30 Years 1/23/2025 23

425 of 426


--- page 426 ---
Options for City Council Consideration

Option 1 - Approve a Resolution to appropriate $328,743 from the Advance
Planning Fund to the Historic Policy Update project; approve an agreement with
Rincon Consultants for community outreach, historic policy and code
amendment technical support; and authorize the City Manager to execute the
agreement in substantially the form presented.

Option 2 - Approve a Resolution to appropriate $394,450 from the Advance
Planning Fund to the Historic Policy Update project; approve an agreement with
Rincon Consultants for community outreach, historic policy and code
amendment technical support; and authorize the City Manager to execute the
agreement in substantially the form presented.

Option 3 - Do not approve an appropriation Resolution or an agreement with
Rincon Consultants and vote not to proceed with the historic policy update effort

at this time.
24 of 23

426 of 426
