source: packet.pdf
sha256: 94c8b8ebf6c35f14b1070b7477bc37b6f6619abdae6adef5f47a1ed962701cd0
pages: 24
ocr_pages: 2
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Park and Recreation Commission
December 2, 2020
7:00 PM
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Eric Holm, Chair
Sean Williams, Vice Chair
Lindsey Held
J. Christopher Massey
Heather Wolnick
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN‐PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: December 2, 2020 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638‐0968
Conference ID: 838 3528 9580 Passcode: 774475
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Approval of Minutes
Approve the Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes of October 7, 2020.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request
to Speak" form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments
may be referred to staff for further review.
OLD BUSINESS
2.
Informational Update on Community Gardens Research
Update the Park and Recreation Commission on staff’s research to date regarding further expansion of the
community gardening program.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments and requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
1 of 24

--- page 2 ---
­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­
Agendas are posted on the City's website by the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: prcommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting.
All attendees are muted by default. To speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638‐0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. 
To indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand. 
When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Parks and Recreation Administrative Office at (650) 522‐7400 or by email at
parksandrecreation@cityofsanmateo.org
Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this
meeting. 
2 of 24

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 2018 - 20-3897
TO:
Park & Recreation Commission
FROM:
Sheila Canzian
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
December 02, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Approval of Minutes
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes of October 7, 2020. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - 20_10_07 Regular Meeting Minutes Draft
STAFF CONTACT
Giovana Orozco, Administrative Technician
gorozco@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7400
3 of 24

--- page 4 ---
Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 10/07/20 
Page 1 
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
Eric Holm, Chair  
Sean Williams, Vice Chair  
Lindsey Held  
J. Christopher Massey  
Heather Wolnick 
 
City of San Mateo  
Regular Meeting Minutes 
Park and Recreation Commission 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
  
Wednesday, October 7, 2020 
Remote 7:00 PM 
Regular Meeting 
  
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency.  
 
Chair Holm called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM 
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call 
 
 
Remote:    Commissioners Present: Held, Holm, Massey, Williams, Wolnick  
Absent:  
CONSENT CALENDAR  
 
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without 
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.  
 
1. Approval of Minutes 
Approve the Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes of September 2, 2020. Motion carried 5/0. 
 
Moved: Wolnick, Seconded: Williams 
Ayes:  
 Held, Holm, Massey, Williams, Wolnick 
Noes:  
Abstained:  
END OF CONSENT CALENDAR 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
• 
There were no speakers 
 
PUBLIC HEARING 
 
2. Heritage Tree Removal Permit Appeal Hearing for 601 W. Hillsdale Blvd 
Managing Arborist, Matthew Fried, presented the application and supporting documents to the commission in detail. 
He explained that the decision to deny the permit was due to all concerns presented in the application being 
mitigated when the sewer lateral and driveway were replaced. He explained that in his experience, when sewer 
laterals are replaced, they are done so with synthetic material that is very unlikely to be damaged by a tree. The 
driveway was also replaced with interlocking pavers that allow for easy mitigation in the future if the roots present 
an issue to the driveway or walkway. In addition, the other concerns related to the water hydrant and cracks in the 
sidewalk could not be directly correlated with the tree. Ms. Lau rebutted with concerns of future liability if the roots 
begin to cause issues again. Commissioners asked some clarifying questions and echoed understanding for Ms. Lau’s 
4 of 24

--- page 5 ---
Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 10/07/20 
Page 2 
argument, however they agreed to uphold the City’s staff decision to deny the removal of the tree in accordance with 
the Heritage Tree Ordinance. Motion to uphold the denial of the permit carried 5/0. 
 
Moved: Massey, Seconded: Wolnick 
Ayes:  
 Held, Holm, Massey, Williams, Wolnick 
Noes:  
Abstained: 
 
OLD BUSINESS 
 
3. 
Proposed Revisions to Heritage Tree Ordinance (Part 3) 
Managing Arborist, Matthew Fried, presented on the proposed revisions to the Heritage Tree Ordinance including 
new replant requirements. Commissioners posed questions and offered comment. Commissioners echoed 
support for the recommendation of the idea for a “Preferred Tree List” and to offer the option for the replanting 
of 2+ smaller trees from the large category in place of a bigger (36” box) tree. They agreed this may help increase 
compliance with replant requirements due decreased costs for these smaller trees. Commissioners were all in 
support of having the fees more closely reflect the actual cost of replanting as well as the Administrative 
Guidelines being added to the Ordinance to help patrons understand the verbiage and provide helpful tips.  
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
• 
Sheila Canzian, Director, presented the Central Park Fallen Heroes Memorial Grove Design rendering from 
multiple locations in the park.  
• 
Drew, Member of the Public, thanked staff and commissioners for their work. He stated that he’d experienced 
difficulty accessing the meeting due to the format the link is being shared and asked if it was possible to edit the 
agenda to include the Conference ID as well as the password. Chair Holm thanked Drew for attending the 
meeting and said staff would look into the issue and attempt to come up with a solution. 
 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
The meeting adjourned at 8:48 PM  
 
SUBMITTED BY:  
 
 
 
Giovana Orozco, Recording Secretary 
 
Giovana Orozco  
5 of 24

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 20-3914
TO:
Park & Recreation Commission
FROM:
Ron Hostick, Parks and Landscape Manager 
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
December 02, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Informational Update on Community Gardens Research 
RECOMMENDATION:
Update the Park and Recreation Commission on staff’s research to date regarding further expansion of the community 
gardening program. 
BACKGROUND:
At its July 2019 meeting, staff provided the Commission with a status report on the operations and management of 
the current community gardening program. As a result of the discussion, a number of suggestions were made by 
Commissioners including, equity and access for all residents to community gardens; a desire to provide “communal”  
gardens in other areas of the City; consideration of policy changes – including changing the current terms for the use 
of plots;  planting edible fruit trees around community gardens; resizing plots at the Beresford Community Garden; 
and expanding information on our website to include other community gardening opportunities, including mapping 
all community gardens in the City. Staff agreed to place the item on its annual Department Work Plan pending the 
hiring of a new Parks and Landscape Manager.  Ron Hostick was hired as the new Parks and Landscape Manager on 
June 1, 2020 and has been making progress on further researching many of the Commissioner’s comments.  
Currently, San Mateo Parks and Recreation Department provides two community garden areas, Beresford Park, 
which has a total of 74 plots and Los Prados Park, which has a total of 26 plots. Plot holders must be City of San 
Mateo residents and are charged $.28sf annually to cover the cost of water and minor site improvements, such as 
replacement boards, hose bibs, etc.  Each area is managed by a separate volunteer board comprised of site 
gardeners and have established a set of rules and regulations that cover issues such as plot maintenance, height of 
trellises, plot holder behavior, etc.  (Attachment 1). Board members are the primary conduits of information to 
other plot holders and are responsible for contacting gardeners who may be falling behind on their maintenance.  
One of the expectations of gardeners is that their plots be actively gardened year round.  There is currently funding 
available in the Department’s CIP budget to add an additional 25± plots at Los Prados Park.  
Staff also conducted a recent survey of surrounding cities and the extent to which garden plots in public parks are 
available to their residents.  Here are the current number of plots per 1000 residents: 
 
6 of 24

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City
Number of Plots per 1000 
Residents
Foster City 
None-School Garden Only
San Carlos
None
Pacifica
None 
Redwood City 
.13 (Senior Center Plots)
South San Francisco
.42
San Bruno
.66
Burlingame
.73
Belmont
.96
San Mateo
.97 (will be 1.25 with 
additional Los Prados plots
Menlo Park
1 
Millbrae
1.86
Brisbane
9.7
Based upon research to date, here is a summary of staff findings: 
Communal Gardening AKA Community Farming
Having communal space for people to share in the effort of food production is a way other communities have provided 
produce to their citizens. The notion of communal gardening or community farming as it is referred to in other 
jurisdictions is that volunteers collectively farm a piece of land with the produce being distributed among volunteers and 
any excess provided free to other community members.   Successful community farming requires a level of supervision 
and oversight that goes beyond merely having volunteers and typically has paid staff to oversee the operation.  For 
example, San Francisco Recreation & Parks Department (SFRPD) has 3 Full Time Equivalent staff (FTE) plus a manager to 
oversee operations, primarily focusing on the Alemany Farm and the city’s community gardens. 1.5 FTE are paid from 
SFRPD and 1.5 staff from donations to Alemany Farm.  The paid staff is responsible for coordinating volunteers at 
appropriate times for planting and harvesting and having sufficient volunteers available to gather, weigh, and disperse 
fresh produce.  It also requires knowledgeable staff to do the twice-yearly fruit tree effort, pruning and harvest. The farm 
must be on good soil for maximum production and be of adequate size to yield sufficient quantities of produce.  (The 
Alemany Farm is 3.5 acres in size).  Alemany Farm also serves to provide educational information on food production, 
ecosystem awareness, habitat value and community leadership opportunities.  

Staff has concluded that presently, we do not have sufficient land nor the financial resources available to invest in 
a community farming project. There is currently nothing that prohibits a volunteer group from co-gardening a  
garden plot at either Beresford or Los Prados so long as there is one individual who will serve as the primary point 
of contact.  
    
Policy Changes for Plot Turn Over
 
 Currently there is no limit on the amount of time a plot holder can retain their plot.  The average length of current plot 
holders at Beresford is 7.2 years.  As the Los Prados Garden is only 3+ years old, there is insufficient data to identify any 
trend.   Up until 2016, the number of turn overs per year at Beresford averaged 5; however, since 2016 the number of 
turn overs per year has averaged 13 with 16 turnovers occurring in 2019.  Los Prados gardens were installed in 2017 
and in 2019, 11 plots or nearly 43% turned over.  Of the 51 people on the Beresford waitlist in 2016, all were given the 
opportunity for a plot. It is unclear what may be contributing to the higher number of turnovers other than there has 
been a concerted effort by both Board of Directors to more actively manage the gardens and contact those plot holders 
7 of 24

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
who are not meeting the expectations to maintain their gardens on an active basis.  There are presently 55 people on 
the Beresford waiting list and 28 for Los Prados.  Waiting lists are not actively managed, that is those who may have 
moved away, are no longer interested or are not prepared to actively garden the plots do not ask to have their names 
removed from the list. Updates are only made at the time wait listed individuals are contacted for their interest.   

While limiting plot holders to a fixed period will open up opportunities for others, removing successful and active 
gardeners is counterproductive to building community within the garden and potentially penalizes those who have 
been most attentive to the rules and regulations.  Staff has concluded that adding more plots and continuing to set 
high expectations for gardeners will add capacity as opposed to arbitrarily limiting tenure. 
Allowing the Addition of Edible Fruit Trees 
Staff believes there is some opportunity space at the Los Prados garden to allow the planting of edible fruit trees, 
provided there are knowledgeable and interested volunteers who are willing to assume responsibility.  In order to 
minimize ladder usage, staff suggests only planting dwarf varieties. 
Excess Food Production-Community Sharing 
Both the Beresford and Los Prados gardens currently provide a drop-box on site where gardeners can donate excess 
produce.  Gardeners needs only text a representative from Grow San Mateo which notifies them that excess produce 
is available to be picked up, generally within 24 hours or less. Donations are made to the Samaritan House’s Food 
Pharmacy. 
Expanding Website Resources 
Staff believes there is opportunity to expand community gardening resources on our website, including informational 
links to other community gardens that may be accessible to the general public as well as educational resources that 
are available through the Master Gardener program and the University of California Cooperative Extension.  Staff does 
not support efforts to widely map all community gardens located in the City as it would be time consuming and 
generally of little value to the general public as gardens located on private property, such as schools, churches or 
developer easements are primarily intended for the benefit and use by their members.  Even if such information were 
available, it would be challenging to insure that once posted, that it remains current.  
Garden Expansion Opportunities and Garden Management 
Staff is recommending the following actions in order to expand community gardening opportunities as well as 
provide enhanced garden management: 

Proceed with the construction and installation of an additional 25± community garden plots at Los 
Prados Park.  This expansion is currently funded as a Capital Improvement project and has been 
designed and ready for construction.  

As larger plots are turned over at Beresford Park, utilize the opportunity to divide those in order to 
add capacity. The Beresford plots were established in the 1970’s and appear to have been 
designed in various dimensions.  Presently there are 8 plots ranging in size from 440sf-500sf and 
another 22 plots ranging in size from 299sf- 414sf.  As these plots become available, staff will work 
with the Board of Directors to determine the feasibility of how they can be divided into smaller 
units, thereby increasing capacity.  

Work with the Board of Directors to improve the current use agreement to insure all gardeners 
take a more active role in garden operations, such as requiring gardeners to assist with the 
maintenance of common areas, improving expectations for plot maintenance and year-round 
production and encouraging volunteering to serve on the Board of Directors in order to prevent 
8 of 24

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
burnout of garden oversight.   

Consider recommending future development of community gardens, as CIP funding allows.  Staff 
has identified possible locations at Bayside Joinville Park and the undeveloped Dale Avenue park 
site once it is no longer needed to support construction activity at the Waste Water Treatment 
Plant.  The Dale Avenue location may also be considered as a possible community farming site if 
there is interest in pursuing that option in the future.  (Attachment 2) 
Food security is a concern for us all and the ability for public parks to provide space for community members to 
grow their own produce with their own effort is an important community value that needs to be supported .
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is currently $60,000 budgeted in CIP # 610030, Park Site Amenities for the construction of the additional garden 
plots at Los Prados Park. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct 
or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Community Garden Operating Rules and Regulations
Att 2 - Map of Future Potential Garden Plot Locations
Att 3 - Public Comment 
STAFF CONTACT
Sheila Canzian, Director, Parks and Recreation
scanzian@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7404
Ron Hostick, Parks and Landscape Manager
rhostick@cityofsanmateo.org
(650)522-7423
9 of 24

--- page 10 ---
1 
 
City of San Mateo Department of Parks and Recreation               
Community Garden Regulations and Policies 
I. Plot Allocation 
 
1. Plots are leased to City of San Mateo residents only.  Proof of residency will be required 
yearly. 
 
2. The person whose signature appears on the Lease Agreement is ultimately responsible for 
the garden plot and for payment of all fees and charges.  A gardening spouse is considered a 
“plotholder” and must also sign the hold harmless agreement. 
 
3. Only one plot will be leased per residence.   
 
4. A community gardener may not garden more than one garden plot.  
 
5. Current plotholders in good standing may renew their garden plots each year. 
 
6. Gardeners are responsible for keeping the Board of Directors notified of their current address, 
phone numbers, and e-mail address.  Maintaining a current mailing address assures that you 
will receive renewal applications, notifications, and a cleanup deposit refund. 
 
7. Persons who relocate outside the City of San Mateo during the garden year may continue to 
garden until renewal at which time their plot will be reassigned. 
 
8. Plotholders must be involved in hand-on cultivation of their plot.  Plotholders who sublet care 
of their plot will forfeit their plot. 
 
9. A plotholder who relinquishes his/her garden plot may not transfer the care of their plot to 
anyone, including family or friends.  Garden plots that become available will be re-assigned to 
new gardeners via the established waiting list. 
 
10. A temporarily disabled plotholder may apply for Board of Director approval for permission to 
allow another plotholder to care for their garden for a 3 month period.  If necessary, an 
additional 3 month period can be applied for after which the plot will be reassigned. 
 
 
II.  Care of Plots 
 
1. It is the feeling of the Board of Directors that an average of 4-5 hours per week is necessary 
to keep and properly maintain a productive and attractive garden plot. 
 
2. All plots must be maintained in a manner acceptable to the Beresford Board of Directors 
(which include the elected officers and the coordinators).  This includes normal weeding, 
watering, and general care of the assigned plot.   
 
3. No excessive or unsightly storage or poor garden condition will be tolerated.   
 
4. Tools and stakes must be stored in a safe manner inside the plot. 
10 of 24

--- page 11 ---
2 
 
 
5. The south and west pathways of each bed are the responsibility of the plotholder and are to 
be kept free of weeds and debris, and covered with chips. 
  
6. PLOTS MUST BE COMPLETELY PLANTED AT ALL TIMES OF THE YEAR including a 
winter garden and/or cover crop.  A plot cannot be left fallow or covered with plastic or straw.   
 
7. Only vegetables, flowers, berries, and herbs may be grown on the plots.  Fruit trees, and 
bushes, with the sole exception of roses, are not permitted.  
 
8. Plants infested with insects or disease must be removed from the garden to protect healthy 
plants. 
 
9. Crops must be harvested and not left on the ground to rot and go to waste.  Vegetation that is 
finished bearing or is dead must be removed to the green waste bin or the plotholder’s compost 
bin immediately. 
 
10. Unless invited to do so, a gardener may not place ANYTHING in another plotholder’s 
compost bin. 
 
11. NO FENCES OR ARBORS ARE ALLOWED.                       
 
12. Respect the need of your neighbor’s plants for sunlight.  Tall plants, such as tomatoes, 
legumes, corn, berries, etc should be located so that they do not produce excessive shading 
onto adjacent plots, and do not extend into pathways.  Berries should be trimmed and 
maintained. 
 
 
13. Temporary trellises, no more than 5 feet tall, may support annual vegetation.  In no case 
may they shade a neighboring plot. Trellises must be removed once the plant is finished 
bearing.   
 
 14. One permanent structure per plot will be allowed for the support of perennials.  In no case 
may a “structure” be over 5 feet high by 6 feet wide or shade a neighboring plot.  Structures as 
well as raised beds, are subject to PRIOR approval by the Board.  
 
15. Gardening by natural “organic” methods is encouraged.  Fertilizers and chemicals which are 
approved by the State Department of Agriculture may be used.  Care should be taken not to 
expose adjacent plots or plotholders to any chemicals. 
 
III.  General Garden Maintenance 
 
1. NO EXCESSIVE OR UNSIGHTLY STORAGE OR CONDITION WILL BE TOLERATED.  No 
more than one chair, one compost bin, one trash can, and one SMALL hand tool storage box 
will be permitted.  These must be kept within the plot—not in the aisle. 
 
2. To prevent wasteful use of water gardeners are required to stay in the vicinity of their plot 
while watering.  Do not leave unattended or on all night.  Please turn off all faucets of 
unattended plots. 
 
11 of 24

--- page 12 ---
3 
 
3. Water spigots must be made available to other plotholders at all times when used as a drip 
system.  Please see one of the Board members for information on this. 
 
4. All loose materials, refuse, tools, etc., must be cleared from the pathways and stored in an 
attractive manner inside the plot.  The hose must be returned to its proper storage area out of 
the aisle. 
 
5. Sheds of any kind are not allowed. 
 
IV.  Garden Behavior  (Plotholder Responsibilities)     
 
1. Everyone, with the exception of the Board of Directors, must be out of the garden area within 
one hour after sundown. 
 
2. Reasonable advice of the Board of Directors (which includes officers and coordinators) must 
be adhered to. 
 
3. In the event of produce, plant, or other stealing, the plot holder will be DISMISSED ON THE 
SPOT.  If the individual is not a plot hold, he/she will be turned over to the proper authorities. 
 
4. Gardeners are encouraged to report unacceptable behavior to the San Mateo Park Ranger 
on duty at cell phone (650) 787-9153. 
 
5. Absolutely no pets are permitted in the Garden. 
 
6. Any adverse physical contact between gardeners, loud, offensive or boisterous behavior, or 
abuse of alcohol within the garden boundaries is prohibited and subject to immediate plot 
forfeiture.   
 
7. For safety reasons, no bottles are permitted. 
 
8. Plotholders will be held accountable for the behavior of their guests.   
 
9. In the event of non-compliance with one or any of the Regulations and Policies, this 
procedure will be followed: 
Step 1 – Verbal warning.   
Step 2 – Written warning. 
Step 3 – Dismissal notice from the Board of Directors. 
Step 4 – The gardener may request a Grievance Committee Hearing, in writing (letter or 
e-mail), within 7 days of the dismissal notice.  The individual themselves must present 
their case to three Board members.  
Step 5 – The Grievance Committee will give final written notice.  The decision of the 
Grievance Committee is final.  Garden fees and the clean-up deposit will not be 
refunded. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 of 24

--- page 13 ---
4 
 
V.  City Requirements 
 
1. NO MODIFICATION TO THE IRRIGATION SYSTEM OR THE PLOT BOUNDRIES. 
 
2. Topsoil, fertilizer, and any hardscape, once added to the garden plot, become the property of 
The City of San Mateo and may not be moved to another plot or removed from the garden. 
 
3. The yearly rate from February through January is subject to adjustment by The City of San 
Mateo to cover the operations of the Community Garden. 
 
4. Gardeners will be assessed a onetime $50 cleaning deposit which will be held and refunded 
when a  gardener in good standing vacates his/her garden plot in a clean and totally weed free 
condition as determined by the Board of Directors.   
 
5. In the event a plotholder has been dismissed from his/her plot for failure to abide by the 
garden policies, the cleaning deposit of $50 and the balance of the Lease will not be returned.   
 
6. This Document may be revised, updated and/or modified by The City of San Mateo and/or 
the Beresford Garden Board of Directors with approval of The City of San Mateo.  If such a 
change is made all plotholders will be notified in writing. 
 
Revised 03/21/2017 
13 of 24

--- page 14 ---
® >a one, 4 See ty * heat

ce s ie}
fie 4 (ley! y meh Pha ir

/

. ‘al Lee Dog Park’

Pa

a
#

2
4 Island| Park

ik!
« fiat c fi

ml

i

j 3 (ra
ill

JoinVille Park
fi

My a Si oI wy) i | ; Zea - | : Waterside
toyal Ave) be ; '

roe tia) .

oan, | 4 ]



--- page 15 ---
1
Giovana Orozco
From:
Doria Charlson <doria.charlson@gmail.com>
Sent:
Friday, October 30, 2020 12:14 PM
To:
PR Commission Mailbox
Subject:
Community Gardens in San Mateo
Follow Up Flag:
Follow up
Flag Status:
Flagged
Dear Members of the Parks and Recreation Commission,  
 
I hope this finds you well. 
 
I am a life-long San Mateo resident and I am writing in regards to the need in San Mateo for more space for community 
gardens. Below you can find an email that I received inquiring about a plot at the Beresford Community Garden noting 
that the demand for space is incredibly high resulting in a wait time for 3-4 years.  
 
There are innumerable reasons that community gardens are beneficial to our city; however, in this past year, the COVID-
19 pandemic and the threats of climate change have made it even more important to cultivate local food sources not 
only to feed ourselves, but also those in the community suffering from food scarcity. The idea that one has to wait 3-4 
years to access a safe and hospitable space to garden and produce food is unacceptable in a city with so many natural 
resources and available spaces.  
 
I urge you to expand existing community gardens and create more community gardens in San Mateo. We are a city of 
over 105,000 people and we only have two community gardens. The Parks and Rec commission should be encouraging 
folks to participate in beautifying and strengthening our community through gardening. I would be happy to discuss this 
and any questions you might have about this email and request. I will also happily address the Commission at an 
upcoming meeting.  
 
Warmly and with thanks,  
Doria Charlson 
 
--  
Doria E. Charlson, PhD 
Theatre Arts & Performance Studies • Brown University 
Research Justice at the Intersections Fellow 2020-21 • Mills College 
www.doriacharlson.com 
 
---------- Forwarded message --------- 
From: Beresford Community Garden Admin <beresfordcommunitygarden@gmail.com> 
Date: Thu, Oct 22, 2020 at 7:42 PM 
Subject: Auto-reply Re: Available plot? 
To: <doria.charlson@gmail.com> 
 
Beresford Community Garden (BCG) is a community resource completely gardened and staffed by your San Mateo neighbors. This 
garden email-box is checked by volunteers, periodically, so you may experience delays in receiving a reply to your 
communication. 
15 of 24

--- page 16 ---
2
The demand for garden plots at BCG is high, but we're always interested in welcoming new gardeners. If you would like to be added to the 
waitlist,  we'd be happy to add your name and notify you when a spot opens up. You must be a current full-time resident of the City of San 
Mateo to qualify. Applications are available at the Beresford Park Recreation Center located at the corner of Alameda de las Pulgas and 
28th Avenue in San Mateo, and they'll be happy to file it for you. If you submit an application you will be automatically placed on the 
wait-list with your priority determined by the date you submitted it.  The wait-time for a plot, on average, is 3-4 years. Thank 
you. 
 
 
 
 
16 of 24

--- page 17 ---
1
Giovana Orozco
From:
Phil King 
Sent:
Wednesday, December 2, 2020 10:35 AM
To:
PR Commission Mailbox
Subject:
in support of community gardens
Follow Up Flag:
Follow up
Flag Status:
Completed
I know that community gardens are on the agenda this evening so I wanted to send a quick note of support and 
encouragement for expanding access to community garden space in San Mateo. 
 
I have been gardening at the Beresford Community Garden since January 2020 and have absolutely loved it. I can't 
overstate how valuable and enriching it has been to have a safe space to work outdoors and grow vegetables 
throughout this challenging year. I've been able to teach my 3 year old daughter about gardening and she's learned to 
plant, water, and harvest vegetables throughout the past 9 months. My family had significantly more access to fresh 
vegetables and have eaten more home cooked fresh meals than ever before thanks to our 200sq feet of garden space. 
I've canned gallons of fresh tomato sauce, harvested over 100 zucchini, picked many jars of cucumbers, and so much 
more. We love San Mateo even more thanks to the incredible facilities at Beresford Park, and especially the community 
garden.  
 
I want to encourage the commission to convert the Dale Ave site into a similar community space. Surrounded by 
neighborhood houses and close to an existing large park, I think that would be a treasure for that area. Imagine walking 
3 or 4 blocks from home to tend to your garden each morning or evening, building connections with neighbors you 
hadn't met before, and having a new source for fresh food. I hope this can be done soon.  
 
Thank you for supporting community gardens! 
Phil King 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
17 of 24

--- page 18 ---
San Mateo Community Gardens
Park and Recreation Commission
December 2, 2020 
18 of 24

--- page 19 ---
San Mateo Community Gardens
• Beresford Gardens established in the 1970’s
• 74 plots-random sizes 100sf-500sf
• Los Prados Gardens established in 2017 
• 26 plots-120sf or 140sf
• Must be San Mateo resident
• Limited to vegetables, flowers; no tree planting  
• Managed by separate board of gardeners 
• Renewed annually (January)
• $.28sf + $50 refundable deposit-remitted to City  
• Fees cover the cost of water + maintenance (replacement boards, hose bibs, nozzles, etc.) 
• Self-sustaining
• City arranges for compost and wood chips; repairs irrigation system  
19 of 24

--- page 20 ---
San Mateo Community Gardens
• Established Rules and Regulations that cover plot maintenance, height of 
trellises, plotholder behavior, etc.  
• Average plot turnover per year
13 @ Beresford since 2016/16 turnovers in 2019 
43% turnover @ Los Prados since 2017 
• Average length of tenure at Beresford is 7.2 years 
• San Mateo ranks 4th in County in plots per 1000 residents (.97) 
• Cities reported a wait list 
20 of 24

--- page 21 ---
Findings and Recommendations 
Communal Gardening 
• Successful models require dedicated staff, volunteer resources and sufficient land 
availability; not recommended at this time
• Co-gardening permissible with primary contact identified
• Excess produce  collected at both Beresford and Los Prados and donated to Samaritan 
House; opportunity to plant dwarf fruit trees at Los Prados if sufficient interest  
Plot Turnover 
• Experiencing higher number of plot turnover in recent years
• Not recommending placing time limitations on plots; penalizes those who have been 
abiding by the rules
Expanding Website Resources 
• Provide additional gardening and educational resources, e.g. Master Gardeners, UC 
Cooperative Extension, etc.
• Low value to map gardens on private property 
21 of 24

--- page 22 ---
Garden Management and Expansion Opportunities
• Proceed with construction of additional 25 plots at Los Prados
• Sub-divide larger plots at Beresford as they become available 
• Improve current user agreement to communicate expected actions for 
gardeners, i.e. assist with maintenance of common areas, year-round 
production, etc. 
• Consider future development of additional community gardens as CIP funding 
allows 
22 of 24

--- page 23 ---
Future Expansion Opportunities 
• Other potential sites to consider: Dale Avenue, Bayside-Joinville (3rd
Avenue/Anchor Road
23 of 24

--- page 24 ---
uestions/Comments??
