source: packet.pdf
sha256: f62f466d5faa4bbb163b0e0ce06409f5b36ad338bedaab4adfef517580ed254a
pages: 20
ocr_pages: 7
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting
November 2, 2020
5:30 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Joe Goethals, Mayor
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor
Rick Bonilla
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS – 
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN‐PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: November 2, 2020 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone:  (408) 638‐0968      
Conference ID: 859 9002 8680      Passcode: 936927
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the Council's consideration of these items.
1.
Central Park Fallen Heroes Memorial Design
Review and comment on the preferred design for the Central Park Fallen Heroes Memorial.
2.
City Attorney Recruitment
Utilize the services of an executive recruiter and a City Council subcommittee for City Attorney recruitment
activities.
ADJOURNMENT
­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the
agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522‐7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522‐7040, Monday‐Friday, 8 a.m. ‐ 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel‐San‐Mateo‐Live‐Stream (continue on next page)
1 of 20

--- page 2 ---
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted
by default. When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the
appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638‐0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the
item of interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and
provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to
participate in this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522‐7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours
prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 20

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 20-3770
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
November 02, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Central Park Fallen Heroes Memorial Design 
RECOMMENDATION:
Review and comment on the preferred design for the Central Park Fallen Heroes Memorial.
BACKGROUND:
The Central Park Master Plan adopted by the City Council in 2017 identified a location for a Fallen Heroes Memorial that is 
intended to recognize San Mateo community members who died during an armed conflict while serving in the military as 
well as those members of the San Mateo Police and Fire Departments who died while on duty. In 2018 an advisory 
Committee was formed by then Council Member Maureen Freschet to help advise the City on issues such as memorial 
design, policies, fund raising, etc. Representatives of the Committee include city staff, veterans, retired members of the 
San Mateo Police and Fire Departments, various Commissioners, and both current and former City Council members. The 
original vision of the Committee was that the memorial would list the names of individuals who died by branch of service 
and/or conflict as opposed to a more universal design that honored the service of military members, in general. 
The Committee enlisted the assistance of the architect program and club at the College of San Mateo as a way to generate 
ideas for possible memorial designs. Thirteen students submitted entries that were reviewed by the Committee and 
several were passed along to RRM Design Group, for further refinement. In addition, the Committee invited RRM to 
develop their own design concepts for Committee consideration. RRM returned with two, Meandering Ribbon, which was 
inspired by several student submissions and Remembrance Poppy, an original RRM design that took its inspiration from 
the red poppy, the national emblem of remembrance that was worn following World War I. The Committee 
overwhelmingly chose the Remembrance Poppy which is the preferred design becoming recommended to the Council. 
The design consists of seven vertical stainless steel columns, each containing a segment of the poppy that when viewed 
from a certain angle, will unite to form a single image. Each column will represent a branch of the military (and the San 
Mateo Police and Fire Departments) with engraved names of those who died in service. A concrete or possibly granite 
band will be imbedded into the linear pavers with the specific units motto etched in the concrete. Flush mounted 
uplighting will illuminate the names. Site furnishings will include items such as benches, monument signage, an 
informational plaque explaining the origins of the Remembrance Poppy and a major donor recognition plaque. The 
Committee has also indicated an interest in integrating brick pavers within some sort of edge treatment or pathway that 
could serve as both an opportunity for families to honor the service of a relative (who may not have died in conflict) as 
well as provide a means of fund raising. (Attachment 2) 
The Park and Recreation Commission reviewed and commented on the design at their August 2020 meeting.  Their 
comments included a desire to create more curved elements (as opposed to only linear), an interest in insuring that the 
memorial would appear attractive from various vantage points and a desire to open view corridors from the Great Lawn.  
3 of 20

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
These have been addressed through the addition of curved visitor benches, painting the backsides of the panels and 
removing and relocating the existing benches adjacent to the pathway.  (Attachment 3) 
As the project moves to the next phase of construction drawings, some adjustments may be required in order to 
accommodate site conditions, constructability methods, etc., however the overall design concept is not expected to 
change. 
The Committee will continue its work on finalizing policy questions such as the criteria for how names will be included on 
the monument, e.g. killed while in action vs sustaining an injury which may have lead to a later death, whether to include 
conflict names, year of death, etc. The Committee will also take the lead in fundraising, preparing informational material, 
etc.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The preliminary construction estimate is approximately $240,000 which is anticipated to be raised through fund raising 
efforts. Design costs for RRM’s work are currently included in their contract for the first phase design development for the 
Central Park Master Plan which also includes development of playground concepts and is funded by the Department. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065, the Council's review and recommendation is not a project 
subject to CEQA, because the City is not taking action at this time. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Existing Site Conditions
Att 2 - Remembrance Poppy Design
Att 3 - Updates Following Park and Recreation Commission Comments 
STAFF CONTACT
Sheila Canzian, Director, Park and Recreation
scanzian@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7404
4 of 20

--- page 5 ---
INTERPRETIVE EXHIBIT/ART NODE
Central Park Core
1.
Existing event lawn
2.
New flag and monument location
3.
Mobile bandstand location
4.
Site of future Fallen Heroes Memorial
5.
Existing Rose Garden preserved
6.
Preserved Kohl Pumphouse
1
2
EVENT LAWN & PUMPHOUSE AREA
4
3
5
6
8
7
7.
New maintenance storage building
8.
9th Avenue entry signage
9.
Existing trees, preserved
10. Existing dog sculpture, preserved
11. Bioswales
12. New Jim Chalmers Rotary picnic pavilion
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
10
11
11
11
12
9TH AVENUE
6
1
Central Park 
Adopted Master 
Plan 
Attachment 1
5 of 20

--- page 6 ---
Photos of Existing Site



--- page 7 ---
Option 2: Remembrance Poppy
DESIGN INSPIRATION
Remembrance Poppy
The red poppy, which became a national emblem of remembrance in 
1920, is worn to honor and memorialize those who gave their lives to 
protect our country’s freedom. It’s historical roots date back to World 
War I, when a Lieutenant Colonel was overcome with sorrow after a 
battle in the poppy-covered Flanders Field in Belgium. The Colonel 
wrote a poem to channel his grief, called “In Flanders Fields”. 
This poem caught the eye of a professor at the University of Georgia, 
and she vowed to always wear a red poppy in remembrance of those who 
had been left behind. She lobbied to make the red poppy a national 
memorial symbol, and on September 27, 1920, the red poppy officially 
became the U.S. national emblem of remembrance. 
Red poppies are donned on Memorial Day and also on National Poppy 
Day. The American Legion Auxiliary - female relatives of wartime 
veterans, is the main group that raises money through the distribution 
of crepe-paper poppies. These poppies are handcrafted by veterans and 
provides them wages and a therapeutic outlet. 
Attachment 2
7 of 20

--- page 8 ---
1
2
3
4
5
6
Seven reflective stainless steel 
monuments with engraved names
Unit motto etched into concrete
Painted steel ‘slice’ of poppy image
Granite bench
Decorative paving
Flush-mount lights to illuminate 
names
1
2
3
4
5
6
Legend
• Polished stainless steel
• Painted steel
• Etched concrete
Materials
Option 2: Remembrance Poppy
DESIGN CONCEPT
Elevation from lawn
When viewed from one specific 
point, the seven monuments 
unite to form a single image.
8 of 20

--- page 9 ---
1
2
3
4
5
5
6
7
8
Seven steel monuments 
with engraved names
Decorative paving
Bench
Mottos etched in concrete
Existing tree
Existing light
Existing building to be 
removed
Existing path
Existing rose garden
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Legend
Option 2: Remembrance Poppy
PLAN VIEW
8
9
0’
20’
10’
5’
30’
NORTH
9 of 20

--- page 10 ---
FALLEN HEROES MEMORIAL
AUGUST 5TH, 2020
SAN MATEO, CA
MONUMENT DIMENSIONS
8’-4”
11’-8”
11’-2”
11’-8”
10’-10”
10’-10”
9’-3”
1/8” THICKNESS, 
TYPICAL
1’-4” WIDTH,
TYPICAL
10 of 20

--- page 11 ---
FALLEN HEROES MEMORIAL
AUGUST 5TH, 2020
SAN MATEO, CA
STAINLESS STEEL (ENGRAVED)*
*PHOTO CREDIT: 
LA JOLLA ETCHING
IN-GROUND LIGHTING
STAINLESS STEEL (PAINTED)
OPTION A: 
ENGRAVED CONCRETE*
GRANITE BENCH
OPTION B: 
ENGRAVED GRANITE
LINEAR PAVERS
MATERIALS
11 of 20

--- page 12 ---


--- page 13 ---
>

“xX
‘

2%

vw



--- page 14 ---
>

ann

areas



--- page 15 ---


--- page 16 ---


--- page 17 ---


--- page 18 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 20-3789
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
November 02, 2020 
SUBJECT:
City Attorney Recruitment
RECOMMENDATION:
Utilize the services of an executive recruiter and a City Council subcommittee for City Attorney recruitment activities. 
BACKGROUND:
City Attorney Shawn Mason has served the City of San Mateo’s City Council very well for the past 18 years. He recently 
provided the Council with his notice of retirement effective April 2021.
Consequently, a recruitment will assist the City Council with finding Mr. Mason’s successor. Section 2.18 of the San Mateo 
City Charter establishes the requirements for the City Attorney’s qualifications, appointment and compensation.  “There 
shall be a city attorney who shall be appointed by and who shall serve at the pleasure of the council. The city attorney shall 
be an attorney at law licensed as such under the laws of this state, a specialist in municipal law, and must have been 
engaged in the practice of law for three years or have served in the capacity of municipal attorney or assistant municipal 
attorney for at least three years prior to appointment.” The powers and duties of the City Attorney are further described in 
Attachment 1.
SUMMARY OF RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION PROCESS
Similar to the process successfully used in 2018 to fill the City Manager position, the typical recruitment and selection 
process for hiring a City Attorney would include:

Developing the City Attorney Position Profile – The recruiter holds individual interviews with each of the City 
Council members and other key staff to identify the organizational needs and professional attributes needed for 
the position.  The City Council could utilize methods of providing the public with opportunities for input in 
developing the position profile.

Prepare the Recruitment Brochure, Marketing Materials and Advertising Plan – A recruitment brochure and 
marketing materials are developed based upon the position profile and organizational needs analysis.

Candidate Outreach – While advertising and marketing in various media are helpful, the best candidates 
sometimes must be actively and confidentially sought out and their interest encouraged.  

Candidate Assessment and Initial Screening – The recruiter screens applicants to determine if they match the 
position profile. A recruiter typically interviews a number of candidates to narrow the field prior to the selection of 
finalists.
18 of 20

--- page 19 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

Presentation of Finalist Candidates – The recruiter provides a comprehensive evaluation of potential candidates 
and provides recommendations for the selection of finalists for interview.

Candidate Interviews – The recruiter arranges for interviews and develops selection procedures for the finalist 
candidates. Structured interviews with the full City Council, Department Heads, and any other stakeholders as 
determined by the City Council would be held.  The specific panel makeup and number of interview panels is 
developed with assistance from the recruiter.

Candidate Selection / Background Checks / Employment Contract – The recruiter assists the full City Council with 
finalist selection, background and reference checks, and the formulation and documentation of appropriate 
compensation and other employment arrangements.
Executive Recruiter versus In-House Recruitment
Most California cities utilize an executive recruitment consulting firm to conduct City Attorney recruitments. While our 
Human Resources Department staff has the technical expertise to conduct the recruitment in-house, the primary 
advantage to using an executive recruitment consulting firm is their ability to conduct significant targeted and confidential 
outreach to qualified applicants. Because these consultants conduct a number of executive searches for a variety of cities 
in the course of a year, they are familiar with the applicant pool and will be aware of viable candidates who would be 
interested in applying to be the City of San Mateo’s City Attorney. Executive recruitment consulting firms with significant 
public sector experience maintain databases of potential applicants and have the skill and expertise to perform this vital 
outreach effort.
Participation in Preliminary Recruitment Activities
Historically, the City Council has chosen a subcommittee made up of two Council members, the current City Manager 
and/or City Attorney, and Human Resources to work with the recruiter on activities leading up to the presentation of 
finalist candidates and panel interviews of them.  It has been an effective and efficient way to perform this work. 
These preliminary activities include holding meetings with the recruiter regarding the search schedule and process, 
crafting the interview questions for the identified oral board panels, and deciding on the selection of finalists so the full 
City Council can hold oral board panel interviews with each of the finalists.  It is anticipated the recruitment process would 
take about five months to complete.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Executive recruiting firm and other associated costs would be covered in the Human Resources budget earmarked for the 
filling of executive positions. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - San Mateo City Charter Section 2.18 
STAFF CONTACT
Casey Echarte, Director of Human Resources
cecharte@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7262
19 of 20

--- page 20 ---
San Mateo City Charter
2.18 City Attorney. Powers and Duties.
There shall be a city attorney who shall be appointed by and who shall serve at the pleasure of 
the council. The city attorney shall be an attorney at law licensed as such under the laws of this 
state, a specialist in municipal law, and must have been engaged in the practice of law for three 
years or have served in the capacity of municipal attorney or assistant municipal attorney for at 
least three years prior to appointment. The city attorney shall have the power and be required to:
(a) Serve as chief legal advisor to the council, the manager, and all city departments, offices and 
agencies.
(b) Prepare proposed ordinances and resolutions and advise the council as to their compliance 
with law and the provisions of this Charter, and draft contracts and other legal documents 
required by the council or other officials except as may be otherwise provided.
(c) Prior to the general municipal election each two years to review all city ordinances and the 
Charter, and at the first regular meeting of the council after such election make recommendations 
to the council for amendments to or repeal of ordinances and enactment of new ordinances in the 
city attorney's opinion required to improve the ordinance code, and for any Charter amendments 
the city attorney may deem advisable.
(d) Attend all meetings of the council unless excused by the council or the mayor.
(e) Perform any other duties prescribed by law, this Charter, or ordinance, or as the council may 
from time to time require not inconsistent with law or this Charter.
The city council may authorize the city attorney to hire additional attorneys and personnel for the 
city attorney's legal staff. Except as may otherwise be provided in this Charter or in ordinances 
relating to personnel approved by vote of the people, the city attorney's staff shall be appointed 
by and serve at the pleasure of the city attorney.
The city attorney shall receive such compensation for services as the council shall determine. 
When the city attorney is an in-house employee of the city, the city council may remove the city 
attorney at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the council plus one.
20 of 20