source: packet.pdf
sha256: 3c6a2e775b2cd42c43d2b2d790b7d71394172becfe2560e44074934cba6ef8ab
pages: 175
ocr_pages: 60
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission 
June 13, 2023
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Margaret Williams, Chair
John Ebneter, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
Martin Wiggins
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: June 13, 2023
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 818 7785 9342      Passcode: 572938
Commissioner Martin Wiggins will participate in this meeting via teleconference from:
Hyatt Ziva Los Cabos
Paseo Malecón Sn Lote 5
San Jose del Cabo, Mexico, 23405
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of 5.09.23.
CEQA: This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's
jurisdiction that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of
15 minutes for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's
jurisdiction. The Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the

--- page 2 ---
agenda, but shall refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 of the San Mateo
Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those issues raised at the
public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing. Some public
hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
 
2.
2164 Palm Avenue – New Private Indoor Tennis Court Facility (PA-2022-088)
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) for a new two-story, 14,553 square-
foot private indoor tennis court facility; a Special Use Permit (SUP) to allow a recreational use in the Service
Commercial (C4-1) District; and a Categorical Exemption from environmental review pursuant to Sections 15332
of the California Environmental Quality Act, based on the Findings of Approval and subject to the Conditions of
Approval in Attachment 1.
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) as an “in-fill
development” because: 1) the project is consistent with the General Plan land use designation of Service Commercial
and applicable General Plan policies, and with the C4-1 (Service Commercial) zoning designation and applicable
zoning code regulations; 2) the project is located within city limits on a project site of no more than five acres
substantially surrounded by urban uses; 3) the project site has no value as habitat for endangered, rare or
threatened species as the site is currently a vacant parking lot with no vegetation which may serve as habitat; 4)
approval of the project will not result in any significant effects relating to traffic noise, air quality, or water quality
based on the private use of the tennis court; and 5) the site can be adequately served by all required utilities and
public services (CEQA Guidelines Section 15332).
NEW BUSINESS
1.
Election of Officers
Elect Chair and Vice Chair of the Planning Commission
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream

--- page 3 ---
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7643
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
June 13, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of 5.09.23.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Regular Meeting Minutes 5.09.23
STAFF CONTACT
Ashley Snodgrass , Administrative Assistant
asnodgrass@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7218

--- page 5 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 5/9/23
1
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Margaret Williams, Chair 
John Ebneter, Vice Chair 
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
Martin Wiggins
City of San Mateo
Regular Meeting Minutes 
Planning Commission
Tuesday, May 9, 2023
Hybrid 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
CALL TO ORDER 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
ROLL CALL
Present:
Chair Margaret Williams, Vice Chair John Ebneter, Commissioners Adam Nugent, Seema Patel, and Martin 
Wiggins
Absent:
None
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval 
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of 4.11.2023.
Moved:
Patel, Seconded: Nugent
Ayes:
Ebneter, Nugent, Patel, Wiggins
Noes:
None
Abstain:
Williams
Absent:
None
PUBLIC COMMENT:
None.
PUBLIC HEARING
2.
Appeal of a Second-Story Addition to an Existing Single-Family Residence at 329 Greenfield Avenue (PA-2022-051) 
Planning Manager, Manira Sandhir, presented the appellant’s request of a continuance due to a medical emergency 
and provided the Planning Commission with options.
Applicant, Ertan Dogrultan, and Architect, Jessica Sin, requested the item to be heard.
Commissioner Questions:
Commissioners asked clarifying questions of staff and the applicant. 
Public Comments: None.
The Commission moved to continue the item to a date certain of May 23, 2023.
Moved:
Wiggins, Seconded: Nugent
Ayes:
Williams, Ebneter, Nugent, Patel, Wiggins

--- page 6 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 5/9/23
2
Noes:
None
Absent:
None
3.
Zoning Code Amendments for City Projects, Modifications to Planning Applications and Height Limitations and 
Exemptions – Ordinance Recommendation
Principal Planner, Julia Klein, presented an overview of the proposed code amendments.
Commissioner Questions:
Commissioners asked clarifying questions on projects that might be impacted by the amendments, examples of 
visually and non-visually conspicuous changes in the Major Modification subsection, simple modifications that would 
need a building permit, notifications to the public for simple modifications, and substantial removal of a single-
family dwelling that undergoes a demolition.
Public Comments:
None.
Commissioner Comments:
All Commissioners expressed their support for the code amendments.
The Commission moved to recommend to the City Council adoption of an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo 
Municipal Code Sections 27.02.060 (Height Limitations and Exemptions), 27.02.140 (Exceptions), 27.06.020 (Zoning 
Administrator – Powers and Duties), 27.06.050 (Council Consideration and Determination), and 27.08.080 (Planning 
Application Modifications) to streamline the review process for city projects, clarify the modification process for 
approved planning applications, and clarify height limitations and exemptions; and determine the amendments 
qualify for an exemption from further environmental review pursuant to California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Section 15061(b)(3).
Moved:
Nugent, Seconded: Patel
Ayes:
Williams, Ebneter, Nugent, Patel, Wiggins 
Noes:
None
Absent:
None
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Planning Manager, Manira Sandhir, provided updates on items for future Planning Commission meetings and announced 
two training courses from the Planning Collaborative. Commissioner Patel asked questions on plans to update the 
Zoning Code to align with Senate Bill 897 relating to Accessory Dwelling Units and Assembly Bill 2097 relating to parking 
near transit. Vice Chair Ebneter suggested a Study Session to review the Housing Element Update and requested a Study 
Session with a presentation by OneShoreline. There were no other reports from Commissioners or the City Attorney.
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 8:00 pm.
APPROVED BY:
Margaret Williams, Chair
SUBMITTED BY:
Ashley Snodgrass, Administrative Assistant

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7406
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
June 13, 2023 
SUBJECT:
2164 Palm Avenue – New Private Indoor Tennis Court Facility (PA-2022-088) 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) for a new two-story, 14,553 square-foot 
private indoor tennis court facility; a Special Use Permit (SUP) to allow a recreational use in the Service Commercial (C4-1) 
District; and a Categorical Exemption from environmental review pursuant to Sections 15332 of the California 
Environmental Quality Act, based on the Findings of Approval and subject to the Conditions of Approval in Attachment 1.
BACKGROUND:
On November 11, 2022, the applicant submitted a formal Planning Application to construct a new two-story private indoor 
tennis court facility on a vacant parking lot located at 2164 Palm Avenue. 
The Planning Commission reviewed the preliminary application for this project at a study session held on March 22, 2022. 
Items discussed at the study session were focused on the need for the project to conform with the vision of both the 
Pedestrian and Bicycle Master Plans to allow for future bicycle lanes along Palm Avenue, concerns about proposing a 
private recreational use in the Service Commercial District, and if three onsite parking spaces were sufficient to meet the 
parking demand of the proposed use were raised. The Commission supported the building design with no suggested 
design changes other than a desire to see additional landscaping and greenery along Palm Avenue. The Commission was 
also in favor of supporting a Special Use Permit (SUP) finding the private recreational use is similar to and compatible with 
the uses permitted in the Service Commercial District, which allows commercial recreational uses as a special use. 
Since the study session, the applicant has made a number of minor alterations to the building design, which include 
removal of an interior turf area to allow for a two-car garage for a total of four on-site parking spaces (two covered and 
two uncovered in a surface parking lot), the removal of a proposed 7-foot wall along the front property line, the 
introduction of a steel guard rail along the second story of the front elevation, and the addition of a three-foot recess with 
a roll up door half way along the north side elevation for additional ventilation.  
Site Description 
The project site is located at 2164 Palm Avenue and is currently a vacant parking lot with an approximately 700 square-
foot storage building located in the right rear of the property. The site is 14,925 square-foot (0.34 acres) in size, zoned C4-1 
(Service Commercial) and designated as Service Commercial in the City’s General Plan Land Use Map. Along Palm Avenue 
the site is adjacent to service commercial uses and backs up to regional commercial uses to the west along El Camino Real. 
Adjacent uses include retail uses to the west, commercial and auto repair uses to the south and east, and supportive 
housing use to the north. The site is also located within a Special Flood Hazard Zone and subject to the City’s Floodplain

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Management Ordinance (SMMC Chapter 23.33). A location map showing the project and its vicinity is included in 
Attachment 2. 
Project Description 
The proposed project is a new 14,553 square-foot, two-story, private indoor tennis court building that will replace the 
current parking lot and 700 square-foot shed. The facility includes an indoor clay tennis court, exterior storage shed, lobby, 
bathroom with shower facilities, warmup area, and a two-car garage and surface parking lot to accommodate four onsite 
parking spaces on the ground level. The second story of the building includes a second bathroom with shower facilities, a 
post tennis activity area/clubhouse, closet, additional storage, and a mechanical room.  To meet code requirements for 
new construction in a flood hazard zone, the building’s finished floor elevation will need to be raised one foot above the 
base flood elevation or flood openings incorporated into the ground floor pursuant to SMMC Section 23.33.020(II)(1) 
(Condition No. 8).
The proposed architectural style of the building is best described as a modern warehouse characterized by its rectangular 
massing, brick veneer, cement panels, concrete canopy, steel guard rail, and flat roof at the front of the building. An 
arched fabric roof assembly is situated over the middle and rear of the building that contains the tennis court to provide 
the vertical height necessary for a regulation tennis court. Project plans and photo simulations are included in Attachments 
4 and 5, respectively. 
This project requires two Planning entitlements: 1) a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) for the construction of a 
new building and associated site improvements, and 2) a Special Use Permit (SUP) for a private non-commercial 
recreational use in the Service Commercial District as a compatible use. 
Applicable Code and Policy Review 
General Plan
This site is designated as Service Commercial by the General Plan Land Use Map. The Service Commercial land use category 
is intended to allow for a broad range of regional or city-wide services and small manufacturing uses that are not typically 
found in neighborhood shopping areas. A list of applicable General Plan policies and a discussion of the project’s 
compliance is included in Attachment 1.
Zoning Code
Consistent with its land use designation, the project site is zoned C4-1 (Service Commercial) which permits commercial 
recreational uses (which include commercial tennis courts) as an allowable use with the issuance of a Special Use Permit. 
The proposed private tennis facility may be considered a compatible use with the approval of a Special Use Permit by the 
Planning Commission. (See Special Use Permit for Compatible Uses section below for further discussion). The project also 
conforms to the development standards in C4 district, including floor area ratio, setbacks, buffer areas, and height (San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.36). A project data table that lists the applicable zoning standards and the project’s 
conformance to them is included in Attachment 3.  
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR)
The project requires a SPAR for the construction of the proposed new building in accordance with San Mateo Municipal 
Code (SMMC) Section 27.08.030. The proposed site layout and building design have been reviewed for and are in 
conformance with applicable code requirements, standards and urban design policies; as summarized below and further 
described in Attachment 1. The project includes the construction of a two-story building that is compatible with the 
surrounding semi-industrial area along Palm Avenue which consists of a mixture of one to two-story structures with 
various architectural styles. Stucco and brick siding are the predominant exterior materials for the automotive/commercial 
uses to the south and east, as well as the transitional housing to the north. While more contemporary in its architectural 
style, the proposed building employs a square massing common in the surrounding small warehouse and commercial 
buildings. In addition, the exterior materials, which include warm-brown brick veneer along the front of the building, larger 
square windows at the second story and cement panels along the sides and rear of the building complement the color 
palette and materials of the surrounding structures which employ a mixture of stucco, stone, and brick siding and range in 
color from grey, tan, white, blue, and red.

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Use Permit (SUP)
The applicant is proposing to establish a private tennis court for personal use within the Service Commercial (C4) District. 
As outlined in SMMC Section 27.36.010, all uses permitted in the C1 (Neighborhood Commercial), C2 (Regional/ 
Community Commercial) and C3 (Regional/Community Commercial) districts are permitted in the C4 District. Similarly, all 
special uses permitted in these commercial districts are also permitted in the C4 District with a Special Use Permit (SMCC 
Section 27.36.020).
Commercial recreation (which includes tennis courts/facilities) may be an allowable special use in the C2 District. As such, 
commercial recreation may also be allowed in the C4 District with the approval of a Special Use Permit (SUP). The C2 
District, and by extension the C4 District, may also allow other non-designated compatible uses with the issuance of a SUP. 
Pursuant to SMMC Section 27.74.020, the Planning Commission has the power to grant Special Use Permits for other non-
designated uses. When granting other non-designated special uses, the Planning Commission must be able to make 
specific findings in support of the project, which include: 
1.
The use is so similar to a specifically allowed use in the district as to be virtually identical in terms of impacts and 
land use requirements and where the proposed use will not have an adverse impact on the welfare, health or 
safety of the surrounding community; and 
2.
That the proposed use will not have an adverse effect on the general health and/or welfare of the community, 
and that the use will not cause injury or disturbance to the adjacent properties by traffic or by excessive noise, 
smoke, odor, noxious gas, dust, glare, heat, fumes, or industrial waste. 
The use of the property for a private recreational tennis use in terms of operational characteristics would be similar and, in 
some instances, less intensive as compared to a commercial recreational tennis use. Due to the similarities in impacts and 
operation, staff finds that the project can meet the SUP findings for approval, which are discussed in greater detail in 
Attachment 1. 
Bicycle Master Plan
The City’s Bicycle Master Plan provides policies and recommendation to implement citywide infrastructure improvements 
to support bicycle use. The Bicycle Master Plan also envisions a proposed bicycle network of bicycle lanes, paths, and 
routes throughout the city. The Bicycle Master Plan calls for a separated bicycle lane (Class II) along this segment of Palm 
Avenue where bicyclists do not share the road but ride adjacent to vehicular traffic in a designated lane along Palm 
Avenue. It should be noted that the applicant is not required to physically construct or design a bicycle lane along its Palm 
Avenue frontage as a part of their project, but instead would not impede the feasibility of such bike facilities in the future. 
Compared to the plans shown at the 2022 study session, the project plans have been revised to maintain the current curb 
line so as not to encroach into and create conflict with the future Palm Avenue bicycle lane. 
Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan
The Pedestrian Master Plan contains recommendation to improve the pedestrian realm throughout the city. Appendix A of 
the Pedestrian Master Plan provides guidelines for sidewalk design and types specific to a project’s land use and street 
parking configuration. The sidewalk standard applicable to the project’s frontage along Palm Avenue is A.8 
Retail/Commercial Type C New Development. This standard recommends an overall sidewalk width of 14 feet. 
Existing adjacent sidewalks are approximately 5 feet wide with 3 to 5 feet of paved buffer zones between the back of 
sidewalk and adjacent front property lines. The applicant has proposed an overall sidewalk width of 11 feet and no street 
trees in order to avoid interference with existing underground drainage culverts along Palm Avenue. While the project 
design does not provide the recommended 14 feet of overall sidewalk, the proposed 11 feet would bring this area of Palm 
Avenue closer in alignment with the guidelines in the Pedestrian Master Plan.  
Parking and Transportation Analysis 
The proposed project most closely aligns with a commercial tennis, handball and racquetball facility in terms of parking

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
requirements and would require three onsite parking spaces per tennis court plus additional stalls for additional uses on 
site per SMMC Section 27.64.160. Additional uses on site include the second story post tennis activity/clubhouse area (969 
square-feet) that could generate additional parking needs. A site-specific parking demand study and Transportation Impact 
Analysis (TIA) evaluation was conducted by the City’s transportation consultant AECOM to determine the appropriate 
parking for the project and analyze the project’s traffic impacts in accordance with the California Environmental Quality 
Act (CEQA), City’s General Plan, and the City’s Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Guidelines. 
The site-specific parking demand study produced by AECOM evaluated: 1) the parking demand for the project-based City 
standards and Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) parking generation rates, and 2) provide an alternative occupancy 
limit if the recommended parking could not be provided. Using City and ITE standards, the tennis court and 
clubhouse/post-tennis activities room would require up to 17 parking spaces. Due to the constrained nature of the site, it 
would be very difficult to accommodate 17 parking spaces. 
AECOM recommended to either provide four on-site parking spaces to accommodate the private tennis court and 
clubhouse/post tennis activities room use or limit occupancy to three people for two on-site parking spaces or four people 
for three on-site parking spaces. The project reviewed by AECOM in 2022 provided three parking spaces but has been 
revised in 2023 to provide four on-site parking spaces as recommended by AECOM to reduce the risk of parking spillover 
into the commercial parking areas along Palm Avenue.  
Parking and Assembly Bill (AB) 2097
Although the project was formally submitted in 2022, new state legislation (AB 2097) became effective on January 1, 2023, 
that limits the City’s ability to implement minimum parking ratio requirements for both residential and commercial 
projects located within one-half mile of a “major public transit stop” (as defined in Public Resources Code Section 2115). 
The only exception to this is if City can make findings that not imposing or enforcing minimum parking requirements on 
the development would have a substantially negative impact, supported by a preponderance of the evidence in the record, 
on the City’s ability to meet its share of specified housing needs or existing residential or commercial parking within one-
half mile of the project. The project site is located approximately 0.4 miles from the Hillsdale Caltrain Station, which meets 
the definition of a “major public transit stop;” therefore, the project would be subject to the provisions of AB 2097. To 
reduce the risk of parking spillover into the commercial parking areas along Palm Avenue (which is already constrained due 
to the limited number of street parking spaces), the applicant has voluntarily provided four onsite parking spaces. 
Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT)
Based on ITE trip generation rates an average of 31 daily trips are expected for a one court commercial recreational tennis 
facility. As a private tennis facility for personal use, AECOM estimated the proposed project would generate 26 average 
daily trips. This is significantly lower than the 110 daily trip threshold established by the City’s TIA Guidelines. Due to the 
small number of daily trips, the proposed project is considered a small project that is screened out of a VMT analysis to 
meet CEQA requirements. The project’s location, which falls within one half-mile of a high-quality transit station (Hillsdale 
Caltrain Station), also screens the project out of a VMT analysis. 
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan 
The City/County Association of Governments (C/CAG) requires the preparation of a TDM plan for projects that add 100 or 
more peak hour trips to the regional road network. With a maximum of 31 daily trips, this project falls well below the 
threshold of 100 peak hour trips and is not required to provide a TDM plan. 
Level of Service (LOS) Analysis
Per General Plan Policy C 2.5, a local traffic study to measure a project’s impact is only required when a project requires an 
environmental (CEQA) analysis and where the project has the potential to impact the local traffic system. As the proposed 
project is considered a small project by the City’s TIA guidelines, would introduce a maximum of 26 average daily trips, and 
does not require a VMT analysis, a local traffic study was not required. 
FISCAL IMPACT:
As a new non-residential project, the applicant would be subject to payment of the following impact and in-lieu fees, 
which are assessed and collected prior to the issuance of building permits or prior to building occupancy:

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
Commercial Linkage fee of approximately $86,000, assessed on net new non-residential floor area in excess of 
5,000 square-feet to offset the impact of development projects on the need for affordable housing. 
•
Child Care Development fee of approximately $3,200 at a rate of $0.22 per square-foot to offset the impact on the 
need for future childcare space. 
•
Sanitary Sewer Connection Charge of approximately $1,440 at a rate of $131 per plumbing fixture, for net increase 
in wastewater generation based on the increase in fixtures.  
•
Transportation Improvement Fee of approximately $66,800 at a rate of $4589.64 per 1,000 square-feet, to offset 
the cost of transportation improvements to serve new development based on net new non-residential floor area. 
•
Wastewater Treatment Plant Phase II Impact Fee at a rate of $2.34 per gallon per day, for net increase of 
wastewater generation based on net increase of average daily flow. 
•
School Impact Fees of approximately $10,900 at a rate of $0.75 per square-foot, to offset the increased demands 
on school facilities based on new floor area. 
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
No public comments have been received prior to the publication of this report. Public comments submitted after 
publication of this report will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for review and consideration at the public hearing 
and posted to this item on the City’s Agendas & Minutes Public Meeting Portal as “Post Packet Public Comments”. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) as an “in-fill development”  
because: 1) the project is consistent with the General Plan land use designation of Service Commercial and applicable 
General Plan policies, and with the C4-1 (Service Commercial) zoning designation and applicable zoning code regulations; 
2) the project is located within city limits on a project site of no more than five acres substantially surrounded by urban 
uses; 3) the project site has no value as habitat for endangered, rare or threatened species as the site is currently a vacant 
parking lot with no vegetation which may serve as habitat; 4) approval of the project will not result in any significant 
effects relating to traffic noise, air quality, or water quality based on the private use of the tennis court; and 5) the site can 
be adequately served by all required utilities and public services (CEQA Guidelines Section 15332).
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met. In accordance with Government Code Section 65091 and the City’s Municipal 
Code public noticing requirements, this public hearing was noticed to the following parties at least ten (10) days in 
advance of the Planning Commission meeting: 
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site; 
•
The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects; 
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and, 
•
The interested parties list which includes interested individuals who contacted the city and requested to be added 
to the project notification list. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Resolution with Findings and Conditions of Approval
Att 2 – Location Map 
Att 3 – Project Data Sheet
Att 4 – Project Plans
Att 5 – Photo Simulations
Att 6 – Parking Demand Study
Att 7 – Planning Commission Study Session Minutes – March 22, 2022
STAFF CONTACT
Laura Richstone, Associate Planner
LRichstone@cityofsanmateo.org

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
(650) 522-7205

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023) 
 
RESOLUTION APPROVING A SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW 
TWO-STORY, 14,553 SQUARE-FOOT INDOOR TENNIS COURT FACILITY LOCATED AT 2164 PALM AVENUE (APN 
039-073-510); A SPECIAL USE PERMIT TO PERMIT A PRIVATE RECREATIONAL USE AS A COMPATIBLE USE IN 
THE SERVICE COMMERCIAL (C4-1) DISTRICT; AND ACCEPT A CATEGORICAL EXEMPTION FROM 
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW  
(PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVENUE SPAR + SUP) 
 
 
WHEREAS, Nicolas Courtot (herein referred to as the “Applicant”) submitted a planning application PA-
2022-088 with the Planning Division for a Site Plan and Architectural Review for the construction of a new two-
story 14,553 square-foot indoor tennis court facility to include warm-up area, garage and surface parking, two 
bathrooms, and clubhouse/post-tennis activities room and Special Use Permit to permit a private recreational use 
as a compatible use in a Service Commercial (C4-1) District at 2164 Palm Avenue (APN 039-073-510) (collectively 
referred to as “Project”) in the City of San Mateo (“City”); and 
 
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 27.06.040 authorizes the Planning 
Commission to take final action on Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) applications for projects of six or 
more dwelling units and over 10,000 square feet of non-residential development; and  
 
WHEREAS, Municipal Code Section 27.74.020 authorizes the Planning Commission to take final action on 
Special Use Permit (SUP) applications for project that propose non-designated compatible uses which the Planning 
Commission concludes are so similar to any specifically allowed use in the district as to be virtually identical 
thereto in terms of impact and land use requirements; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, approval of the applicant’s proposal is considered a “Project” for purposes of the California 
Environmental Quality Act, Pub. Resources Code §21000, et seq. (“CEQA”); and 
 
WHEREAS, the City finds that the Project is categorically exempt from CEQA under Section 15332 In-Fill 
Development Projects; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City finds the Project consistent with the applicable policies of the General Plan and other 
applicable policies; and  
 
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing for the Project on June 13, 2023, 
at which all public comments were considered. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
CALIFORNIA AS FOLLOWS: 
 
1.   The Planning Commission finds on the basis of the whole record before it that the Project will not have 
a significant effect on the environment and is therefore categorically exempt from the provisions of 
CEQA under CEQA Section 15332 as an “in-fill development project” because the project is consistent

--- page 14 ---
with the general plan and zoning regulations, is located within city limits on a site less than 5-acres 
surrounded by urban uses, has no value as a habitat for endangered, rare or threatened species, 
would not significantly affect traffic, noise, air or water quality, and can be adequately served by all 
required utilities and public services; and 
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
AS FOLLOWS: 
 
1. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Land Use, Urban Design, and Circulation Elements 
of the City’s General Plan.  
 
a. The Project conforms with Policies LU 1.5 and LU 1.13 of the Land Use Element, which 
encourages building heights and floor area ratios (FAR) to be consistent with the Building 
Height and Building Intensity Maps of the General Plan and prohibits residential uses in the 
Service Commercial District. The project proposes a building height and FAR less than those 
delineated by the Building Height and Building Intensity Maps of the General Plan and 
establishes a private recreational tennis use in the Service Commercial District.   
 
b. The Project conforms with Policies C 2.5 and C 2.10 of the Circulation Element, which requires 
a local traffic impact analysis (TIA) study is required if a project introduces 110 or more daily 
trips, and a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) plan is required if a project 
introduces 100 or more peak hour trips to the regional road network. A parking and traffic 
impact evaluation report found that a commercial recreational tennis court would generate 
31 daily trips, however the proposed project is for private use and is expected to generate 
less than 31 daily trips. Therefore, the project is exempt from a vehicle miles traveled (VMT) 
analysis and from providing TDM measures as the use would not substantially impact the local 
street system. The parking demand study found that with four onsite parking spaces, the 
project would be able to have a maximum capacity of up to six people, which aligns with the 
intensity of use of a single tennis court for personal use.  
 
c. The Project conforms with Policy UD 2.7 in the Urban Design Element, which encourages new 
development to respect the scale of surrounding buildings and stepbacks of upper stories. 
The project provides a square massing and window placement common to the surrounding 
small warehouses and commercial buildings. Additionally, a taller arched fabric roof assembly 
has been located deeper in the lot behind the font façade to further reduce the mass of the 
structure that is visible from the Palm Avenue public right-of-way.  
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
DOES HEREBY APPROVE A SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW AND SPECIAL USE PERMIT, PA-2022-088, FOR 
THE PRIVATE INDOOR TENNIS COURT FACILITY PROJECT AT 2164 PALM AVENUE, APN 039-073-510, BASED UPON 
THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL AND THE CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL INCLUDED IN EXHIBIT A TO THIS 
RESOLUTION: 
 
1. 
The Site Plan and Architectural Review (Municipal Code Section 27.08.030) application and

--- page 15 ---
associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following findings: 
a. The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of 
the neighborhood in that: 
i. The Project employs a high-quality building design and materials that enhance the 
existing architectural character of the surrounding area including brick veneer and 
scored cement panels;  
ii. The project provides a cohesive transition between the older surrounding warehouse, 
light industrial, and automotive repair uses to the south and east and transitional 
housing and office uses to the north of the project site;  
iii. The pedestrian improvements to the existing sidewalk create a walkable and more 
inviting pedestrian realm that substantially conform with the City’s guidelines relating 
to sidewalks; and 
iv. The Project incorporates new landscaping along the front façade and in the front 
parking area to further enhance the pedestrian realm.  
b. The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City in 
that: 
i. The Project provides a recreational use that would complement existing warehouse, 
commercial, and automotive uses in the vicinity and along Palm Avenue;  
ii. The Project is consistent with the General Plan and Zoning Code; and 
iii. The Project is in substantial conformance with the Bicycle Master Plan and Citywide 
Pedestrian Master Plan   
c. The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, 
and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in that: 
i. The Project consists of a new private recreational indoor tennis court facility in an 
area with a mix of warehouse, automotive, supportive housing, and office uses well-
served by public transit near the Hillsdale Caltrain station;  
ii. The Project provides a new well-designed structure on a site that has historically been 
used as vacant parking lot and will provide future opportunities for commercial 
recreation or conversion to other commercial uses; and  
iii. The Project optimizes the project vicinity’s development potential for commercial 
uses furthering the General Plan vision of Service Commercial Districts throughout 
the City.  
d. The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission and 
City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the zoning 
ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site. 
i. 
The project is consistent with the General Plan and zoning code and will be raised 
outside of the base flood elevation in compliance with the City’s Floodplain 
Management Ordinance.

--- page 16 ---
e. The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security in that the buildings, paths of travel, and parking facilities will be 
required to conform to the City’s current Security Ordinance through Conditions of Approval. 
2. 
The Special Use Permit (Municipal Code Section 27.74.020) application to allow a private 
recreational use at 2164 Palm Avenue and associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on 
the following findings:  
a. The proposed use is so similar to any specifically permitted use as designed in the Service 
Commercial (C4-1) District so as to be virtually identical thereto in terms of impact and land 
use requirements.  
i. The private tennis recreational use is similar to the specially allowed use of 
commercial recreational use given that commercial recreational uses also allow 
tennis courts and that operation of a private tennis facility would be very similar to 
and, in some instances, less intensive in operation and impact as compared to a 
commercial tennis facility. 
b. The proposed use will not adversely affect the general health, safety and/or welfare of the 
community nor will it cause injury or disturbance to adjacent property by traffic or by 
excessive noise, smoke, odor, noxious gas, dust, glare, heat, fumes, or industrial waste. 
i. The proposed private indoor tennis court recreational use will not generate 
emissions (dust, odor, heat, fumes, industrial waste etc.), will not impact the local 
traffic system as assessed in a site-specific parking and traffic impact evaluation, and 
is required to be incompliance with all applicable Building Codes, Fire Codes, and 
the Municipal Codes. The Project will also be subject to the conditions of approval at 
all times during construction of the project pertaining to construction work hours 
for all building improvements.

--- page 17 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING APPLICATION 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVE., SPAR + SUP 
2164 PALM AVE, SAN MATEO, CA 94403 
 PARCEL # 039073510 
 AS APPROVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON  
 
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of 
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. 
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance. Types of 
Building permits include Demolition, Shoring/Excavation, Foundation, and Superstructure. 
 
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING 
PERMIT FOR SHORING OR FOUNDATION, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, whichever is issued first, 
or prior to the deadline specified in that condition. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
1 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE – All building permit plans, details, 
and subsequent construction shall substantially conform with the approved planning 
application. This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and 
other items submitted as part of the approved planning application. Any proposed 
modifications to the approved planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the 
proposed modifications. The Community Development Director, or his/her designee, shall 
determine whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved 
planning application, or whether a planning application modification is required to be 
submitted to permit the proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 
27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – This complete list of Conditions of Approval shall be 
reproduced onto the second sheet of all building permit plan sets. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall pay all 
outstanding planning application fees. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
4 APPLICABLE BUILDING STANDARDS AND LOCAL CODES – All building permit plans shall 
demonstrate compliance with the applicable California Building Standards Codes and local 
amendments as adopted by the Building Division at the time of filing the building permit 
application. (BUILDING)

--- page 18 ---
PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVE., SPAR + SUP 
As approved on  
Page 2 of 21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 BAAQMD JOB NUMBER – The applicant shall submit an asbestos demolition and 
renovation notification job number (J#) from Bay Area Air Quality Management District. 
(BAAQMD). (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 DEMOLITION – A building permit for demolition shall be issued in accordance with Section 
23.06.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, to the satisfaction of the Building Official or 
his/her designee. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 FEMA ELEVATION CERTIFICATE – The applicant shall submit a copy of the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) elevation certificate signed and sealed by a 
professional authorized to certify elevation information subject to the satisfaction of the 
Building Official, or his/her designee. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 FLOOD HAZARD AREA – The project site is located within an area designated as Special 
Flood Hazard Area as identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). 
New buildings, additions, and/or alteration projects valued at 50% or more of the market 
value of the existing structure shall demonstrate compliance with Floodplain Management 
Ordinance in San Mateo Municipal Code Section 23.33 and California Building Code Section 
1612. The Minimum elevation of the lowest floor shall be Base Flood Elevation (BFE) +1-
foot according to ASCE 24-14 as referenced in CBC Section 1612.2.  Areas below lowest 
floor shall comply with SMMC 23.33.020 (ll) (1). Any site plan, building, or drainage 
changes caused by raising the lowest floor elevation to BFE + 1-foot per CBC 1612.2, 
providing flood openings per SMMC 23.22, or requests for alternative design compliance 
per SMMC 23.33.060 shall be reviewed by the respective City departments and approved 
to the discretion of the Community Development Director and Floodplain Administrator or 
their designee. (BUILDING, PUBLIC WORKS, PLANNING). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 PRE-CONSTRUCTION CONFERENCE FOR LARGE PROJECTS- A pre-construction conference 
shall be held at a time and location agreed upon by the City and applicant for the purpose 
of reviewing Conditions of Approval and construction-site procedures.  The applicant shall 
be represented by his design and construction staffs, which include any sub-contractors.  
Departments having conditions of approval for the project will represent the City. This 
meeting shall be held prior to issuance of the Demolition Permit, Building Permit or Site 
Development Permit, and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued 
first. (BUILDING)

--- page 19 ---
PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVE., SPAR + SUP 
As approved on  
Page 3 of 21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 SITE SURVEY – The applicant shall provide a full site survey stamped and signed by a Land 
Surveyor licensed by the State of California. The survey shall include, but not be limited to: 
location and dimensions of property lines, location of streets and easements, existing 
buildings, topographic contour lines, trees/landscape, and other structures. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 SOILS REPORT AND INVESTIGATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a stamped, signed, 
and dated soils investigation report containing design recommendations and integrate 
recommendations into the plans as-appropriate, to the satisfaction of the Building Official 
or his/her designee. The applicant shall also submit a letter stamped and signed by the 
Geotechnical engineer of-record stating the plans and specifications substantially conform 
to the recommendations in the soil report, subject to the satisfaction of the Building 
Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING)  
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
12 FIRE FLOW – The applicant shall provide fire flow information to the Fire Plan Checker, 
which is subject to the review and approval of the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
13 CHARGES FOR PUBLIC WORKS SERVICES –  Prior to plan checking, the applicant shall be 
required to deposit with the City, funds to pay for, at the adopted rate, all engineering, 
inspection and survey services that may be required during plan check and construction of 
the project. The amount of the deposit shall be $10,000. Public Works plan checking of the 
plans submitted with the building permit plans cannot proceed until the deposit is 
submitted. The applicant shall be required to increase the deposit at the discretion of the 
City, for any costs in excess of the deposit. Invoices shall not become delinquent (shall be 
paid within 30 days of receipt). Prior to final occupancy the bill shall be paid in full. The City 
will refund any portion of the deposit not utilized. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE – The applicant shall obtain an 
encroachment permit, posting the required bonds and insurance, and provide a one (1) 
year warranty for all work to be done in the City's right of way or easements prior to any 
work being done. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS – All grading and drainage plans shall identify the vertical

--- page 20 ---
PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVE., SPAR + SUP 
As approved on  
Page 4 of 21 
elevation datum, date of survey, and surveyor. Grading plans shall show existing topo and 
features at least 50’ beyond the project boundary. Plan shall show existing topography, 
label contour elevations, drainage patterns, flow lines, slopes, and all other property 
encumbrances. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB) SCREENING ASSESSMENT FORM – As per Stormwater 
Municipal Regional Permit requirements and San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, 
Demolition Permit Applicants shall complete the PCBs Screening Assessment Form located 
here: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/160/Demolition-Requirements The Form shall be 
reviewed and approved by the Director of Public Works or his/her designee. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17 STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP) – The project applicant shall 
provide a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) in compliance with Bay Area 
Stormwater Management Agencies Association (BASMAA) Blueprint for a Clean Bay Best 
Management Practices to Prevent Stormwater Pollution from Construction-Related 
Activities.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 TRAFFIC CONTROL & SITE LOGISTICS PLANS – The applicant shall submit traffic control 
plans for any impact to the right-of-way for each phase of operation, including pedestrian 
and bicycle detour plans as applicable. The traffic control plan shall comply with the most 
recent version of the California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD) and 
the City’s Traffic Control Plan Requirements. 
 
The applicant shall also submit a site logistics plan for each phase of operation. The plan, at 
a minimum, shall include estimated timeframes for implementation, duration, 
construction operations. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE 
SUPERSTRUCTURE. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
19 CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE – The applicant shall pay a Child Care Development Fee 
subject to the rate established in the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule in effect at the 
time of building permit issuance. (PLANNING)

--- page 21 ---
PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVE., SPAR + SUP 
As approved on  
Page 5 of 21 
 
 
20 COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEE  – The applicant shall pay the Affordable Commercial Housing 
Linkage Fee in accordance with Municipal Code Section 23.61 and (Planner: Choose one 
based on submittal date) Resolution 84 (2016) OR Resolution 111 (2021) subject to the 
rate established in the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule in effect at the time payment 
is made. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21 LANDSCAPING AGREEMENT – The applicant shall provide proof of an agreement with a 
licensed landscape contractor or General Contractor for the duration of the project’s Plant 
Establishment Maintenance Period, which consists of three (3) growing season months 
(March through October) for all proposed landscaped areas.  (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22 LOCATION AND SCREENING OF ABOVE GROUND UTILITIES AND EQUIPMENT – All screening 
for any ground-level utilities, equipment, and other project related operational/utility 
devices shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial conformance with the 
approved planning application. All above ground utilities and equipment shall be screened 
with landscaping, fencing, and/or other solid materials to the satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23 SCREENING OF ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT – Any proposed rooftop mechanical 
equipment shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial conformance with 
the approved planning application. All equipment shall be painted and/or screened by a 
solid enclosure or parapet wall with materials compatible with the building design subject 
to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. 
(PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24 SIGNAGE – Preliminary signage shown in the approved planning application plans are for 
information only. Final signage shall be reviewed and approved in accordance with Title 25 
of the Municipal Code. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
25 CALGREEN – The building permit plans shall incorporate the applicable CALGreen Checklist 
noting the green building measures the project will incorporate in accordance with the 
California Green Building Standards Code and City of San Mateo Reach Codes subject to 
the review and approval by the Building Official, or his/her designee. Current City of San 
Mateo CALGreen checklists are located on Building Division webpage or will be provided 
by Community Development Department staff, if requested. (BUILDING)

--- page 22 ---
PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVE., SPAR + SUP 
As approved on  
Page 6 of 21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26 ROOF FLASHING – Provide notarized agreement with the owner(s) of adjacent building at 
2180 Palm Ave for joint maintenance and a detail for roof flashing between the buildings. 
The agreement will be required prior to building permit issuance. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – The applicant shall submit a completed Water 
Conservation in Landscaping Screening Form. If the screening form indicates the project is 
subject to the Water Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance pursuant to Municipal Code 
Section 23.72.030, additional documentation prescribed by the screening form shall also 
be included with the site plan. City of San Mateo Water Conservation in Landscaping forms 
are located on Building Division webpage. The applicant shall submit the required 
landscape documentation package with building permit application subject to the review 
and satisfaction of the Building Official, or his/her designee.  (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
28 CODE CONFORMANCE – The applicant shall indicate on all building permit plans that all 
construction shall meet current code standards at the time of building permit submittal. 
The building permit plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee. (FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29 FIRE CONTROL ROOM – The plans shall show a fire control room with direct access from 
the exterior of the building subject to the requirements listed in the Fire Department’s 
local Ordinance and subject to the review and approval of the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 FIRE DEPARTMENT SUBMITTALS – The applicant shall submit all plans involving fire 
systems (including but not limited to fire sprinklers, fire hydrants, and fire alarms) in 
conjunction with the superstructure building permit plans to the Fire Department. The 
plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
Police Department (PA) 
 
 
31 BUILDING SECURITY CODE COMPLIANCE –  The building permit plans shall comply with the 
City’s Building Security Code (San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.54). (POLICE)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
32 PHOTOMETRIC PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT – The building permit plans for the

--- page 23 ---
PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVE., SPAR + SUP 
As approved on  
Page 7 of 21 
superstructure shall include a photometric plan showing the installation of lighting fixtures 
and lighting levels to be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police or his/her designee. 
The photometric plan shall include point-by-point lighting levels in foot-candles for the 
entire plot and ten feet beyond the project property lines.  The point-by-point photometric 
plan shall provide lighting levels on a grid not to exceed five feet by five feet across the 
entire site.  Each point shall report the illuminance to the nearest 0.1 foot-candles.  
Photometric calculations including maximum foot-candles, average foot-candles, minimum 
foot-candles, average to minimum uniformity, and maximum to minimum uniformity shall 
be included on the plan submitted.  Select specifications for fixtures selected shall be 
provided on the photometric plan sufficient to ensure compliance with the SITE LIGHTING 
STANDARDS.  (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33 VIDEO SURVEILLANCE SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT – The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall include a plan showing the installation of cameras and approximate 
viewing fields of surveillance cameras to be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police 
or his/her designee.  The plan shall include cameras placed to view areas as required by 
VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS, and include select specifications for cameras and 
storage equipment to ensure compliance with the VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS.  
(POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
34 COVERED PARKING GARAGE DRAINAGE – The building permit plans for the superstructure 
shall show that water from covered parking garage shall not be discharged onto the public 
street. The applicant shall direct discharge from covered or underground garage to the 
City's sanitary sewer system. Stormwater runoff from the roof or other exposed areas of 
the project shall not discharge to these garage drains. The design shall be done by a 
licensed Civil Engineer who shall provide hydraulic calculations and drawings subject to the 
approval of the Director of Public Works or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35 DRAINAGE – The building permit plans show drainage designed into landscaping with the 
purpose of reducing volume or improving quality of runoff from the site shall be 
implemented, to the extent feasible, subject to the approval of the Director of Public 
Works or designee. Where necessary, sidewalk drains per City Standard Drawing 3 1 120 
shall be provided to direct the water under the sidewalk and through the curb. No increase 
to the peak discharge shall be permitted downstream. In addition, discharge shall conform 
to any non point source permit issued by the Regional Water Quality Control Board. 
Drainage improvements made on-site shall conform to standard engineering practices and

--- page 24 ---
PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVE., SPAR + SUP 
As approved on  
Page 8 of 21 
shall not allow any site drainage to impact adjacent properties. All drainage capacity 
calculations shall be performed by a licensed Civil Engineer, whose signed engineer’s 
stamp shall appear on the calculations sheets and shall be submitted to the City for review 
and approval with the project civil plans submitted as part of the building permit for the 
superstructure. The applicant shall install Silva Cells and pervious pavement. Projects that 
include permanent structural controls for stormwater treatment, shall comply with 
requirements of Section C.3 of the Municipal Regional Stormwater Permit for San Mateo 
County (MRP). The O&M (operation and maintenance) procedures for such control 
features shall be submitted for review and approval prior to occupancy and specify the 
owner’s responsibility to ensure their ongoing effective operation and maintenance. Such 
O&M responsibility requirements shall be recorded with the County of San Mateo 
Recorder’s Office. The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show drainage. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36 FENCES AND OTHER PERMANENT STRUCTURES – The applicant shall locate all project 
fencing and foundations of a permanent nature within the project’s property and out of 
the City right-of-way. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37 GARBAGE/RECYCLE/COMPOSTING STORAGE AND SERVICE – The applicant shall provide an 
adequate area for the purposes of storing garbage, recycling, composting collection 
containers for scheduled servicing by the franchise solid waste collection service. The 
containers shall be placed at the service location allowing enough room for the truck to 
safely approach the containers. The collection containers shall be brought to the service 
area and returned to the storage enclosure by the property owner. The containers are not 
to be in public view or in the public right-of-way prior to, or beyond the scheduled service 
times. A letter shall be provided from the City’s franchise solid waste collection service 
provider stating that service is available to the project as designed. The building permit 
plans for the superstructure shall show garbage and recycling areas. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38 INTERIOR FLOOR DRAINS – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show all 
interior floor drains and shall be plumbed to connect to the sanitary sewer system and 
shall not be connected to stormwater collection system per the San Mateo Countywide 
Water Pollution Prevention Program’s C.3 requirements. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39 PARKING LOTS – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall include all required 
off street parking lots, showing proper grading, drainage, ramps profile, and parking 
dimensions in conformance with City parking standards. Drainage should be directed to

--- page 25 ---
PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVE., SPAR + SUP 
As approved on  
Page 9 of 21 
adjacent landscaping wherever possible. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS – An Encroachment Permit shall be required for all public 
improvements in the public right-of-way or easements. All public improvements shall be 
completed prior to the Certificate of Occupancy.  
 
The developer shall repair or replace all existing improvements not designated for removal 
and all new improvements that are damaged or removed because of developer's 
operations. Developer shall request a walk-through with the Public Works Construction 
Inspector before the start of construction to verify existing conditions. 
 
The applicant shall have improvement plans prepared for all work in the public right of way 
or easements by a licensed civil engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall appear on 
the plans. The improvement plans shall be included in the superstructure building permit 
submittal and substantially conform to the approved planning application. Any changes to 
the improvements shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee at their 
sole discretion. All design assumptions and criteria shall be submitted. Project 
specifications shall be included for review. 
 
All work shown on the improvement plans shall be inspected and approved by Public 
Works. 
 
Quantities for items below are provided only to determine minimum bonding 
requirements for the encroachment permit. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the following public improvements in the public right of way:  
 
(A) STREET MARKINGS – The applicant shall install necessary street markings of a material 
and design approved by the Director of Public Works or designee and replace any that are 
damaged during construction. These include but are not limited to all pavement markings, 
painted curbs and handicap markings. All permanent pavement markings shall be 
thermoplastic. Color and location of painted curbs shall be shown on the plans and subject 
to approval by the Director of Public Works or designee. Any existing painted curb or 
pavement markings no longer required shall be removed by grinding if thermoplastic, sand 
blasting if in paint. Once installed, the applicant shall coordinate with City crews to mark 
any red curb within the proposed City right-of-way with a City seal. (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
(B) SIDEWALK – The applicant shall replace to existing City standards all sidewalk 
surrounding the project site. Sidewalk replacement shall be constructed per City Standard

--- page 26 ---
PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVE., SPAR + SUP 
As approved on  
Page 10 of 21 
Drawing 3-1-141A. At the time the planning application was filed, a minimum of eight-
hundred and ninety-two (892) square feet of sidewalk will need to be replaced. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
  
(C) CURB AND GUTTER  – The applicant shall replace to existing City standards all curb and 
gutter surrounding the project site. New curb and gutter shall be constructed per City 
Standard Drawing 3-1-141A. A minimum of eighty-one (81) linear feet of curb and gutter 
shall be replaced.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
(D) DRIVEWAY APPROACH – The applicant shall install one (1) City Standard Commercial 
driveway approach as shown on the approved plans.  The new commercial driveway 
approach shall be constructed per City Standard Drawing 3-1-148. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
(E) DRIVEWAY REMOVAL – The applicant shall remove the existing driveway approach as 
shown on the approved planning application plans, and replace it with sidewalk, curb and 
gutter per City Standard Drawing 3-1-141A. (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
(F) SEWER LATERAL – The applicant shall install as a minimum a six (6) inch City Standard 
sewer lateral connection from the property line to the sewer main located in the street 
right of way. The installation shall be done in accordance with City Standard Drawing 3-1-
101. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
(G) SIDEWALK UNDERDRAIN – The applicant shall install one (1) standard sidewalk 
underdrains in accordance with City Standard Drawing No. 3-1-120. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41 SEWER CHARGE –  
 
SANITARY SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE – The applicant shall pay a charge proportional to 
the project’s share of the increased amount of sewage generated by the project, as 
established by San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 3.54.060. The charge will be based upon 
the City Council resolution in effect at the time of building permit issuance. The fee shall be 
collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first 
superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in effect on 
January 13, 2022. (PUBLIC WORKS, BUILDING) 
 
SOUTH TRUNK AREA SEWER IMPROVEMENT FEE – In order to meet the increased demands 
on the South Trunk Sewer system created by this project, the applicant shall contribute 
fees toward the construction cost to increase its capacity based upon the project’s average

--- page 27 ---
PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVE., SPAR + SUP 
As approved on  
Page 11 of 21 
projected sanitary flow, as established by San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 3.54.080. 
The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of 
the first superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in 
effect on January 13, 2022. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42 STORM DRAIN INLETS AND WATERWAYS – The building permit plans shall show the 
marking of the words “No Dumping! Flows to Bay,” or equivalent, on all storm inlets 
surrounding and within the project site using methods approved by the City standards, 
consistent with the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program’s C.3 
requirements (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43 TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE – The applicant shall pay a fee proportional to the 
project's share of transportation improvements needed to serve cumulative development 
within the City of San Mateo, as established by San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.13. 
The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of 
the first superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in 
effect on January 13, 2022. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44 TRASH CAPTURE DEVICES – The building permits shall show installation of trash capture 
devices in storm drain systems that lead directly to the off-site storm drain system or 
outfall. Devices shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee or designee. 
Trash capture devices are required on site consistent with the State Water Resources 
Control Board definition of Full Capture System. All on-site trash capture devices shall be 
cleaned routinely and maintained by the Owner per the Stormwater Treatment Facilities 
Maintenance Agreement. The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show trash 
capture devices. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45 TRIANGULAR AREA OF VISIBILITY – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall 
show that the installation of landscaping and permanent structures located within the 10' 
triangular area of visibility at the driveway meets the requirements of a minimum vertical 
clearance of 7', and/or are less than 3' in height. This includes all PG&E above ground 
structures and other utility facilities. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show 
the installation of all new, and upgraded, utility services, including telephone, electric 
power, and other communications lines underground to the building in accordance with

--- page 28 ---
PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVE., SPAR + SUP 
As approved on  
Page 12 of 21 
City of San Mateo Municipal Code 26.32.020. Transformers and switch gear cabinets shall 
be placed on private property or within a utility easement.  (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
47 UTILITIES – Utility plans shall be submitted as part of the building permit plans for the 
superstructure and shall show appropriate line types and labels to identify different type 
of utilities and pipe sizes. Clearly identify both public and private utilities. 
 
The Developer shall provide joint trench composite plans for the underground electrical, 
gas, telephone, cable television, and communication conduits and cables including the size, 
location and details of all trenches, locations of building utility service stubs and meters 
and placements or arrangements of junction structures. 
 
Sanitary sewer laterals and/or water meters located in driveways shall have traffic rated 
boxes and lids. 
 
Developer is required to confirm the location of existing utility lines along the project 
frontage by potholing. Developer shall provide the pothole results to the Director of Public 
Works or designee or designee prior to final design. Any utility conflicts shall be the 
responsibility of the developer to rectify. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48 WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT PHASE II IMPACT FEE – In order to meet the increased 
demands on the Wastewater Treatment Plant created by this project, the applicant shall 
contribute fees toward the Plant expansion based upon the average projected sanitary 
flow, as established by City Council Resolution No. 24 (2006). The fee shall be collected by 
the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure building 
permit. The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in effect on January 13, 2022. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
49 WILL SERVE LETTER FOR WATER – A Will Serve Letter from the water company shall be 
supplied to the Director of Public Works or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, ISSUANCE 
OF A TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, 
whichever occurs first. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
50 LANDSCAPE VERIFICATION LETTER  – The applicant shall submit a landscape verification

--- page 29 ---
PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVE., SPAR + SUP 
As approved on  
Page 13 of 21 
letter to the Project Planner written, signed, and stamped by the project landscape 
architect indicating that all on-site and off-site landscape improvements (including on-site 
trees, street trees, shrubs, and irrigation systems) have been installed in compliance with 
the approved landscape plans. This letter shall be submitted prior to scheduling the 
Planning Final Inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
51 PLANNING FINAL INSPECTION – Upon completion of all construction and landscaping, the 
applicant shall request the Project Planner conduct a Planning Final inspection for  
verification of compliance with all outstanding conditions of approval. The applicant shall 
contact the Project Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance 
of the requested inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
52 ART IN PUBLIC PLACES – The applicant shall comply with Section 23.60 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code for Art in Public Places. (BUILDING)(BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
53 FINAL FEMA ELEVATION CERTIFICATE –   The applicant shall submit a new FEMA Elevation 
Certificate signed and sealed by a professional authorized to certify elevation information 
subject to the satisfaction of the Building Official, or his/her designee. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
54 FIRE HYDRANTS – The applicant shall install  the approved number of public/private fire 
hydrant(s) spaced as per the Fire Department’s local Ordinance. All fire hydrants used for 
fire flow for the project site shall be upgraded to a Clow model 960 or equivalent 
consisting of (2) 2-½ inch and (1) 4-½ inch outlets. Each hydrant shall be capable of 
providing a minimum fire flow of 1500 gpm at 20 psi residual pressure. Water supply for 
fire protection is required to be installed in accordance with water purveyor’s 
specifications.  The water supply shall be tested, flushed and approved operable prior to 
any combustible construction materials being placed on the site.  Staged construction shall 
insure that the necessary water supply is maintained from stage to stage in the 
construction planning. The letter shall be submitted to the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee for review and approval prior to the Fire Final Inspection. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
55 RECORD DRAWINGS – The applicant shall submit one full set of original record drawings

--- page 30 ---
PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVE., SPAR + SUP 
As approved on  
Page 14 of 21 
and construction specifications for all off-site improvements to the Department of Public 
Works. All underground facilities shall be shown on the record drawings as constructed in 
the field. The applicant shall also provide the City with an electronic copy of the as-builts in 
PDF and the AutoCAD Version being used by the City at the time of completion of the 
work. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
56 STORM WATER TREATMENT FACILITIES MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT – The applicant shall 
execute a maintenance agreement with the City’s Director of Public Works or designee as 
specified in San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39 of the Stormwater Management and 
Discharge Control ordinance and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention 
Program C.3 Program Technical Guidance. The agreement shall outline the continuous 
operation and maintenance (O&M) plan for the permanent storm water treatment 
facilities including irrigation and landscape maintenance of Green Infrastructure elements 
constructed in the public right-of-way and shall be recorded with the County Recorder’s 
Office. This agreement shall be executed prior to the first occupancy of the building. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE 
OF THE PROJECT. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
57 FRAME/PLANNING ROUGH INSPECTION – Upon completion of all framing and prior to the 
installation of exterior sheathing and windows, the applicant shall request the Project 
Planner conduct a Rough Frame inspection to verify items including, but not limited to, 
window locations, window sizes, and massing. The applicant shall contact the Project 
Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance of the requested 
inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
58 CONSTRUCTION WORK HOURS – Construction shall occur only between the hours of 7:00 
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on 
Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. on Sundays and holidays. These hours do 
not apply to construction that takes place inside a completely enclosed building and does 
not exceed the exterior ambient noise level as measured 10 feet from the exterior 
property lines. The applicant shall conform to the construction work hours to control 
traffic congestion, noise, and dust unless an exemption is granted in accordance with 
Municipal Code Section 23.06.061. (BUILDING)

--- page 31 ---
PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVE., SPAR + SUP 
As approved on  
Page 15 of 21 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
59 ADDRESS NUMBERS – The applicant shall post temporary address numbers on each 
building at the project site that must be easily visible from the street or fire access road. 
(FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
60 DEMOLITION – The applicant shall comply with the California Fire Code Chapter 33 during 
all phases of construction of the project. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
61 EGRESS – The applicant shall maintain required egress for all adjacent buildings/properties. 
(FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
62 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all construction 
activities in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control 
Rules and Regulations (SMMC 7.39), and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution 
Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by reference. Detailed information can be located at: 
https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-stormwater-pollution/with-new-
redevelopment/construction-best-practices/  
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
63 CONSTRUCTION WORKER PARKING – The applicant shall provide a construction-parking 
plan that minimizes the effect of construction worker parking in the neighborhood and 
shall include an estimate of the number of workers that will be present on the site during 
the various phases of construction and indicate where sufficient off-street parking will be 
utilized and identify any locations for off-site material deliveries. Said plan shall be 
approved by the Director of Public Works or designee prior to issuance of City permits and 
shall be complied with at all times during construction. Failure to enforce the parking plan 
may result in suspension of the City permits. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
64 MATERIAL HAULING – For material delivery vehicles equal to, or larger than two-axle, six-
tire single unit truck (SU) size or larger as defined by FHWA Standards, the applicant shall 
submit a truck hauling route that conforms to City of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 
11.28.040 for the approval of the Director of Public Works or designee. The project 
sponsor shall require contractors to prohibit trucks from using “compression release

--- page 32 ---
PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVE., SPAR + SUP 
As approved on  
Page 16 of 21 
engine brakes” on residential streets. The haul route for this project shall be: 
- Highway 92 to Delaware Street to Palm Avenue to Site, Site to Palm Avenue to Delaware 
Street to Highway 92; or 
- Southbound on El Camino Real to E 20th Avenue to Palm Avenue to Site, Site to Palm 
Avenue to E 25th Avenue to El Camino Real; or 
- Northbound on El Camino Real to E 25th Avenue to Palm Avenue to Site, Site to Palm 
Avenue to E 25th Avenue to El Camino Real; or 
as approved by the Director of Public Works or designee. A letter from the applicant 
confirming the intention to use this hauling route shall be submitted to the Department of 
Public Works, and approved, prior to the issuance of any City permits. All material hauling 
activities including but not limited to, adherence to the approved route, hours of 
operation, staging of materials, dust control and street maintenance shall be the 
responsibility of the applicant. All storage and office trailers shall be kept off the public 
right-of-way. Tracking of dirt onto City streets and walks will not be allowed. Entry and exit 
from the site will use rock or rumble strips to prevent tracking. The applicant shall provide 
an approved method of cleaning tires and trimming loads on site. Any job related dirt 
and/or debris that impacts the public right of way shall be removed immediately. No wash 
down of dirt into storm drains is allowed. Use of a sweeper is permissible as long as it 
operates dry (no water used, only vacuum). All material hauling activities shall be done in 
accordance with applicable City ordinances and conditions of approval. Violation of such 
may be cause for suspension of work. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
65 PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES – The following provision to control traffic 
congestion, noise, and dust shall be followed during site excavation, grading and 
construction: 
 
(A) Construction activities related to the issuance of any Public Works permit shall be 
restricted to the weekday between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Please note, however, that no 
work shall be allowed to take place within the City right-of-way after 5:00 p.m. In addition, 
no work being done under the issuance of a Public Works encroachment permit may be 
performed on the weekend unless prior approvals have been granted by Public Works. 
Earth haul and materials delivery to and from the site, including truck arrivals and 
departures to and from the site, will be prohibited between the weekday hours of 4:00 
p.m.   5:30 p.m. Signs outlining these restrictions shall be posted at conspicuous locations 
on site. The signs shall be per the City Standard Drawing for posting construction hours. 
The sign shall be kept free of graffiti at all times. Contact the Public Works Department to 
obtain sample City Standard sign outlining hours of operation.

--- page 33 ---
PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVE., SPAR + SUP 
As approved on  
Page 17 of 21 
The allowed hours of Public Works construction activities may be waived or modified 
through an exemption, for limited periods, if the Director of Public Works or designee finds 
that: 
 
(i) The following criteria are met: 
 
(a) Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time needed to 
complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of noise associated with the project 
as a whole; or 
 
(b) Permitting extended hours of construction are required to accommodate design or 
engineering requirements, such as a large concrete pour. Such a need would be 
determined by the project's design engineer and require approval of the Director of Public 
Works or designee.  
 
(c) An emergency situation exists where the construction work is necessary to correct an 
unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and eminent peril to public health and 
safety. If such a condition exists, the City may waive any of the remaining requirements 
outlined below. 
 
(ii) The exemption will not conflict with any other condition of approval required by the 
City to mitigate significant impacts. 
 
(iii) The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and commercial 
occupants of property adjacent to the construction site of the hours of construction 
activity which may impact the area. This notification shall be provided three days prior to 
the start of the extended construction activity. 
 
(iv) The approved hours of construction activity will be posted at the construction site in a 
place and manner that can be easily viewed by any interested member of the public. 
 
The Director of Public Works or designee may revoke the exemption at any time if the 
contractor or owner of the property fails to abide by the conditions of exemption or if it is 
determined that the peace, comfort and tranquility of the occupants of adjacent 
residential or commercial properties are impaired because of the location and nature of 
the construction. The waiver application shall be submitted to the Public Works 
Construction Inspector ten (10) working days prior to the requested date of waiver. 
 
(B) All construction vehicles shall be properly maintained and equipped with exhaust

--- page 34 ---
PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVE., SPAR + SUP 
As approved on  
Page 18 of 21 
mufflers that meet State standards. 
 
(C) Newly disturbed soil surfaces shall be watered down regularly by a water trucks or by 
other approved method maintained on site during all grading operations. Construction 
grading activity shall be discontinued in wind conditions that in the opinion of the Public 
Works Construction Inspector cause excessive neighborhood dust problems. Wash down 
of dirt and debris into storm drain systems will not be allowed. 
 
(D) Construction activities shall be scheduled so that paving and foundation placement 
begin immediately upon completion of grading operation. 
 
(E) All aggregate materials transported to and from the site shall be covered in accordance 
with Section 23114 of the California Vehicle Code during transit to and from the site.  
 
(F) Prior to issuance of any permit, the applicant shall submit any applicable pedestrian or 
traffic detour plans, to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works or designee, for any 
lane or sidewalk closures. The detour plan shall comply with Part 6, Temporary Traffic 
Control, of the State of California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), 
2012, and standard construction practices. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the project permitted by this 
planning application occupies the premises. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
66 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE AT ALL TIMES – All physical 
improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the approved planning 
application shall, at all times that the use permitted by this planning application occupies 
the premises, substantially conform with the approved planning application. This includes 
but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and other items submitted as 
part of the approved planning application. Any proposed modifications to the approved 
planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee shall determine whether the 
proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved planning application, or 
whether a planning application modification is required to be submitted to permit the 
proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications.  
(PLANNING)

--- page 35 ---
PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVE., SPAR + SUP 
As approved on  
Page 19 of 21 
 
 
67 CHANGE OF USE – At the discretion of the Community Development Director or designee, 
applicant may be required to provide an updated Transportation Impact Analysis meeting 
City Standards upon change of use. (PLANNING/PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
68 LANDSCAPING AND PUBLIC ART - At the discretion of the Community Development 
Director or designee, all landscaping including but not limited to hedges, bushes, and/or 
tress shall not obscure or conflict with any required public art. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
69 LANDSCAPING AND PUBLIC UTILITIES - At the discretion of the Community Development 
Director or designee, all trees located on the project site and all trees located in the public 
right-of-way adjacent to the front property line along Palm Avenue shall be appropriately 
sized, located, and/or provide root barriers so as to not conflict with above or 
underground public utilities. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
70 ONGOING LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE – All landscaped areas shall be maintained free of 
litter, debris and weeds. All plantings shall be permanently maintained in a healthy 
growing condition and, whenever necessary, replaced with equivalent plant materials to 
ensure continued conformance with approved plans. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
City Attorney (PA) 
 
 
71 INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City of 
San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against 
any costs, claims, or liabilities arising out of the approval of this planning application, 
including, without limitation, any award of attorney fees that might result from third party 
challenge.  If applicant is required to defend the City, the City shall retain the right to select 
the counsel who shall defend the City.  (CITY ATTORNEY) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
72 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.02.210-Violations of 
Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of the conditions of approval is 
unlawful and will subject the applicant to the penalties set forth in Chapter 1.04-General 
Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal Code as well as any other available legal remedies.  
(CITY ATTORNEY) 
 
 
 
 
 
Police Department (PA) 
 
 
73 SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS – Exterior security lighting in compliance with the Building

--- page 36 ---
PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVE., SPAR + SUP 
As approved on  
Page 20 of 21 
Security Code “Exterior Security Lighting” (San Mateo Municipal Code Section 23.54.060) 
shall be provided and maintained at all times that the use permitted by this planning 
application occupies the premises. Site lighting shall comply with the requirement of an 
average illuminance of 1 foot-candle, a minimum illuminance of 0.3 foot-candle, and a 
uniformity ratio not to exceed 4:1 average to minimum. All exterior doors shall be 
provided with a their light source.  Light sources shall be capable of producing a “bright 
white” light with a color temperature between 3000K and 4000K and a color rendering 
index (CRI) of at least 65 unless otherwise approved.  This lighting standard is applicable to 
the grounds contiguous to all buildings, and within 10' of the entry points to the property 
from the public right-of-way. The lighting system shall be so designed as to limit light spill 
beyond property lines and to shield the light source from view from off site.  (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
74 VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS – The applicant shall install and operate for the life of 
the project a video surveillance system subject to the following requirements: 
 
(A) The information shall be maintained and retrievable for a minimum of 30 days.  The 
applicant shall provide proof of registration of the video surveillance camera system with 
the City through the City’s Neighborhood Eyes Security Team web form 
(https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/forms.aspx?FID=134). 
 
(B) Cameras shall be placed and maintained to view the exterior of the property and 
grounds contiguous to all buildings.  This condition is not intended to require Applicant to 
install pole mount cameras on the property, cameras to view these areas may be installed 
on the building facing out. 
 
(C) The cameras in this system shall be megapixel or better CCTV cameras that shall be 
capable of operating in all lighting conditions anticipated at project completion.  (POLICE) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
75 POST CONSTRUCTION BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – In accordance with the 
City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control Rules and Regulations, San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, and the San Mateo Countywide Stormwater Management 
Plan (SWMP) by reference, the applicant shall: 
 
(A) Owner/occupant shall inspect private stormwater treatment devices and GI features in 
the public right-of-way at least two (2) times per year and sweep parking lots immediately 
prior to and once during the storm season.

--- page 37 ---
PA-2022-088, 2164 PALM AVE., SPAR + SUP 
As approved on  
Page 21 of 21 
 
(B) The applicant shall pay a fee on a yearly basis for cost associated with, but not limited 
to, City inspection of the private stormwater treatment facilities, emergency maintenance 
needed to protect public health or watercourses, and facility replacement or repair in the 
event that the treatment facility is no longer able to meet performance standards or has 
deteriorated. The fee shall be based upon the Comprehensive Fee Schedule, established by 
the City Council, in effect at the time. 
 
(C) Label new and redeveloped storm drain inlets with the phrase “No Dumping – Drains to 
Bay” plaques to alert the public to the destination of storm water and to prevent direct 
discharge of pollutants into the storm drain. Template ordering information is available 
from the Department of Public Works. 
 
(D) All process equipment, oils fuels, solvents, coolants, fertilizers, pesticides, and similar 
chemical products, as well as petroleum based wastes, tallow, and grease planned for 
storage outdoors shall be stored in covered containers at all times. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 38 ---
Location Map 
PA-2021-062 
2164 Palm Avenue  
 
Address: 2164 Palm Avenue 
Parcel Number: 039-073-510 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Site 
Project Site

--- page 39 ---
2164 PALM AVE 
COMMERCIAL DATA FORM
PA:22-088
ADDRESS:2164 Palm Ave. 
LAND AREA: 14,925 sq. ft. 
(0.343 acres)
ZONING: C4-1
APN: 039-073-510
DESCRIPTION: SPAR for a 14,673 sq. ft. covered tennis court facility. SUP to permit a private tennis 
court for personal use as a compatible use on a parcel zoned C4-1
PROPOSED:
MAXIMUM ALLOWED:
Floor Area: 
Floor 1
10,866.5
Floor 2
1,690.8
Garage:
1716.2
Shed:
280
TOTAL:
14,553.5 sq. ft. (or 0.975%)
14,925 sq. ft. or 1.0
BLDG. HEIGHT:
28’-5’’ plate
30’-0’’ top of parapet
42’-4’’ peak
30’ to plate
STORIES: 
2
n/a
SETBACKS:
PROPOSED:
MINIMUM REQUIRED:
  Front:
0’ to 37’-8’’
0
  Left Side:
0
0
  Right Side:
0
0
  Rear:
0
0
PARKING:
PROPOSED
MINIMUM REQUIRED:
Standard:
3
Compact (Maximum):
Disabled:
1
1 if parking provided
TOTAL PARKING:
4
LOADING:
n/a
n/a
BICYCLE:
1 short term
0 long term
1 short-term;
0 long-term
PKG.  LOT LANDSCAPING:
276 sq. ft. 
n/a

--- page 40 ---
X3QNI LA3SHS
/ V1 WLOArOud
/ LA3HS BaACo

OL NadO LON SI Ul “STenawta

INO 36 TIM 3O¥SN ‘AU FHL HUM FOvId NI SI Tod xIS 40 INBGTRIOY
AaN¥aNO50.OALINT ¥ NY “Svae¥ LNOdanS HUM INNOD SINNAL alvARid ¥ 3 TIM 4
SIHL LyHL NINO ‘357 40 NUL 13S ON GNy ‘SHAOTMG ON 3a TIN BAHL “eANHO

3HL Aa (aLv83c0_ 34 THM 81 “SNL TH’ Ly 0¥901 38 THM NY ONaNd HL
3HLO J2VHL SO INO SGHIG HUI SINNAL Avle OL (
XIN ¥BNMO 3HL 40 SAS0aNd SHL BOA ‘LHNOO SINNAL A¥IO JIONIS ¥ ONEUWa

‘AUNO¥: SINNGL AleARid ¥ SI 19ar0%¢ (AT) BoNOY LN FT CaSOdOed BML

4

Z 4OdS OND YO4 BIH ONINYAL SALLWNEALI HO4 SAL 193HS Jas BION

NOILdIHOS3AC NALLIYM «
*LINYAd ASN TWlDads ©

<

48 Secor, FEF DUET TWO |
,

Tams = Wa zy
pants owen |__| 82/2@/
THOS — 1a unas cheno,
san ronaca |__| 82/52
7 PLR

SANA eR

a5now

(ONY

> NOTRE

“dO, WIV] GUINOIA_NOd ONIMOTIY_S3NMT ALYAdOud
OIS SHL OL GAL97S1SNOD 3 TIM SYNLIMUS 3HL “SNOMWaTA (HLON)

WAY Ny JAY WWIve SHL NO G20I0%d 38 TM SHivd FovNIWuG ALyNDaGy

TwealyN ASCTITISD NON
SIBILSIGNOD NON “INVISISSY COT 4O OLSNMISNOD 36 THM (24a SHL
ONY JAOBY) NOLLONMISNOS TI¥M MALAWI ONY JYNLONWUS ISIS FHL
He FHL 3h0Sy 21 40 NNAININ ¥ CalvO0T 38 THM SUFI.

MOOS GNOOSS SHL NO CaLYOOT 34 THM “WOINYHON THe

SBNONZ TD 20 AS CAUUAD 39 TH NOWWAaTA TWN HL

POC! OL CSIs 3S OST THN ALN] ONY aOWEY

(3B 3HL O1 SLY OL SI LNaRauINoa

WONININ HL, U2—S NI AURIS SINSMGNINOY LIN YS LHL ALON) '.20°Z1

* z | z Jeol ,)
28 80691 SHOTS VEN HAT INOS |
u =21x,0-,6) = +
9 | L (.0-,81X,0-.6) TIS JTEISSIOO¥ NvA aL ag spe aes
48 ZO, "TH ba 4
L 0 | L 1X.9-.8) TIS GYvONWS eal £ 48 $6 -nOow ALMUN/-WoINHoaN
‘ 3996 ov SINNAL 150d 2
i 1 | 0 (.0-.81%,0-.6) THIS GALORUSR cAVONWS zal z - Sat tee)
4S 0°28 “135070 5
i L 0 (.0-81X,0-.01) Ths GENUINOD GavaNws ina fl 35 Zell 4 nooulssy (
# 133Hs d
sms | sts onbRetva toes =
TOL Jonnie HORALXA] FOveVD. NORSLNT 3eAL TIS ONDINE | UBIHXS | ona ASASEORE SVLOLBNS NSB HOES A EOE}
AS 0°08 ROY ZovEOIS
TEATS NT 7
5 4S 6S? "AO TOYINOD ILL
( 48 $18 #1 NOOMISaH 4
NoWbvavedS APH | e—s/a + VW 4S 1622 ‘A880 ¢
NoavdaS NOH O se—s/o—¥ AS 7911 over
eam , 4S O'S201 ARV ef Wav
NOlWavdaS UNH $ -a/e—¥ # a 5 é
AS ¥'S196 “SUMUINEUS “SINNAL ONY L800 SINNAL
SSONKIING CHLTTDINRISS YO 4'GOS TlevL IO 83d SGIONYINDV 4O NOUNS —¢ \ SEF GST NOS |
209 TIL 960 e3¢ FONVISIA NOLlveWedS—3H NO Casa Calva) BU 38 TIM STWvM Soka aL es Ae
“109 S1dvL 380 NI O3WIRdS S¥ NOILIMMISNOD BH) 3eAL JO GSLOMAISNOD 38 THM ONCTING SAL (snow cre )(S Seer) FV IS
SOWULYA ONY NOWARIOSSO :
“ ‘ (QS¥38OMI IHOBH LNOHUM WS) £—¥
sescnt oos'ez
noxd Ni oT ;
M089 NO GAGE aby TERNOTTS 35ye + (1d ONINNYTE O&LYN N¥S AB CBNINOEY Sv) > (091'99'2z) ONDRE
(GSVRUON vauiy HLM S) o-¥
4 i NOY NO CASVE ANVId Jdveo JAORY ANN Blvld lv X¥W .0-.0r ANN Alvid Av X¥W 0-08 (sso9ezz)
SBROIS 40 A38NNN TIHMOTW 35ve : . “ (SSO) ASBH SNTINE
CRs TR ES a # (GSvaNONI Yaa HIM §) 3WW1 Jove 96 OL 3010 OL LON Wd (os0'9¢'Z2) Wae¥ BOOTY ANAIXYA
aROEY ALN, HOGS SUMO TW ae (N¥id 33s) Sarva (ORUSID TWLINSGISSY HLM ONIGIONIOD LON) NON (Q90°9E°4Z) GuVA HvaY
35040) sev ; —-—
EROS RHO _| ——— 3NON (WORUSIO THUN3CISSS HUM ONKGIONID ON) SNOW (o90's¢'22) GaA 3015 )
aA mn ar (ete 338) sabieA (LoRUSIG TWUNIGISIE aLISOddO LON) 3NON (090°96°Z2) SLING CAVA INO’ Wt (od)
aa en Tasodoue Gano A TaoWE Danaea .0, AX053IKO LGHS
7 wo asex | 3 u3EWNN sas,
3 ‘ARH ONINOZ LORUSIO #9 ound 3d ty
He won| 3 vane spony mae NEF
— ; (1woeanno9 JONAS) LoNISIa v9 ONNOZ 9 wa INSNIOSVING TET
aH I pes | ) svenioms Ss
oe HULSE: aeScN A
aH | ex] ¢ a EE 2 mo 2 eaenNN 1a3Hs =f)
5 vOW/Z7L ISHS NO NOILWOMdeW YNRIY JAS “(QAYZ¥H ANWNIGNO) CRENDINIES ATINA EHH ROLTEENOT Daa TNL wagenon wiae ————> 7
2-S "ay sdnows AoNvan000 | (Ba) x = JoNvisld NouveWeas RH |S anasto EOE SEEELON [iE
. H VW (as seein ) suv xe’ wy i dierent
a a | ois=£10-600 ENT TER SOS 9 WSIS saannn 13349 ——> CP
a ee eee een busters J 7 . . SEN HE :
7 é SUIGAGM AEVONODIS. CLMOOSS# SOPH6 YO “ORLY NYS “BAY VE ¥9LZ SHOW a waennN “Wia0
NW NOUOMALSNOD 4008 R 7 2 i
=r SEL cman Or
ti) 0 eT ee ‘Sv TNJLNVaS SV ONICTING SHL AW OL SI NOUNGINI SHL ‘FIdMS 34ND SI LSPOMd SIL S04 1e30NO9 3HL HONOHIY |
‘NY NOUONISNOD HOOT!
SNOULFa ' S30NNN aaHs ——> (TS)
° ® NY STIWiN ONIWAENON BORGIN 13 WOON O3GIA SINNAL “JONYNALNINW “BOWNOLS/alveRe LINOWY ACI BoveS SALWALY SINNAL ISod * ANN Glu TenLonaLs ! NGNNN. NOLORS Uy,
‘SNOULL SYGMOHS HLM SNOOMHLYE ONL & /ANTMGINGD NINIOo — —|- 4)
8 & ONY STI ONISWAENON YORGDG ONHOGIS ONY ‘ONINIEL ALMOY ‘d\-WavM NO Vae¥ dN-NevM# NOWSSS ONITING
poe)
0 0 STW ONRV3E YORBINI unoo SING A¥TO- INO A
SSSNNN ISHS
9 9 Timm oniiae woRaDG ‘anon! Time Jonoy LwN0D 71 Te)
Aid OL AR 19 NY ‘NL “WOLRUS CL WRAY abaenS ¥ AVM azannn Nouwraa PASC
° ° ANd WHIMS ABN OSW TIM 9NIGTING 3HL ‘14909 AVI) _C3SOTONA IHL OL NOLUGOY NI "SONVAGINIWM ONY. 1S0D SHL OL 310 “ANEOSITWD SSH SNOIWRIT-SOTINT 7
HON "VBdy Ave AS SHL NI SLBN00 AYTO. ON SSy ROHL “ATELYNMLYOANN “ASI AWNNI SONGRY AUNVOMINOIS ONY AGO SAL , N
aasoddud oaino3e NNT ONICINE NO 8aIS¥a HON SAY” S1uN0D AYTO “IINSRH ¥ Sy “INO? ASG/G NI NOOHS SHL ONIEMOSBY ‘LNCO SHL OUND NMOG ONIAWWIS

40. OVAISNI “OXINO AAONN AAAGIR GNY JONS OL SBATIG MOTIY SLINOD AVI ‘SOsevD ONVTON Ly SLANOD SINNAL JHL 341
(Nad HONS&4 SHI) SO¥YWD GNYIOY MALY CHTRGOM Ny C3MISN LyN0] A¥ID-G@Y YOOONI N¥ 38 THM Ui IvHL SI LOO
SIHL LNO@¥ 3NOINN S.LKHM “LNOD SINNAL FIONIS ¥ ONRINUWAd ALTMO¥S (SN TyNOSMAd) AlvARd ¥ SI BONO L8NOD 31

MABINN NOISIAaS

saaWNN 1aaHs ———> (con
NOISIAGY GNrOaY GnoTD

waannn, nouwera —— A )

-

noo a ) -sa7a 40 Gus) Nouvegta cOOd 3Sve GHL OL calvagTa 3a TIM ONICTING HLL © NOU ¥, AEN NOTSIATS NOLWATTA ONICTING
1d 1 .
\ J
i S3.LON VIN3S © Vivd LOAaroudd STOGINAS SON343434
IO I SPS IL EEE LES OS '|PUD|SYUPIOHO Wy ulos'azbiqbajgoulpbod yng
TONY] NGHLLN “Lo¥LNoo ONTO aIad “LO¥INOD
Sog0 819514 51 ZI * 980% £88 O16 3
LOL6 WD “OOSIONWYS NYS hh YO ‘CUYIASH
S20 “LERUS CNOOS 19 sau, sonia HALSTON PZ
NOISIO ONUHONT TONY] SHNVE NI ONRGINIONG FZWNG 7 TT
TeNSICS ONT RET
wooublsapmenyeRieny “Trg
WOO'NNYNANAMIHG BIH Wy ‘UGNH HedsOr LOvLNOD
_ ee _ NNYATEN, MIR 1DHLNO Dora Z6r%z6 3
aac AGW ORIG HORE Bal SLod—089{St4) “3NOHd 96596 YO ERO LONTA
wr = = = WO ‘ATTA TIN 701 ALINS ‘GuWATINOS DdAT0 0061
= NOISSC ASUINS NNYAMAN  AMiHd FANLOALHOYY_JdVISONYT GAH
= 'SAUVNSLIV ¢ 10S ONDRIVE BONTOVIS LIGHNG ONNERIRT7 SSS WONT “DSLR eS
. ‘¥ LOdS ONDIUVd LIBIHXS ONINYAL|
Cc £LOdS ONDIYVd LIGIHXS ONINSNL| NODVAZOMAHOIN WA Wor HeMIRORSgSIRNS NG
. Z 108 ONDISVa IHX ONIN 990T1BN BVI “o¥N09 394080 0¥IN0
7 T.10dS ONDIUWd LIGIHXS ONINUAL| ye0d-¥26 (916) ‘1 ELX GLL6'SBZ OS AL
* Stviad] ezess x0 ‘OManeovs joes 0 aT
pOe ens “UATE WOSTOS LOBL : ‘ores
r 2 Awd [NAN EER: ae ‘SUASNIONS WHALINYIS WAZ SLOaUHONY SAaWN | Lies
ae _ _ _ —__ NVid A. UNDONE TWaNLNALS “Daley
: Tivia SOWNIVEG # ONIGVEO]
= = = = woo'e.moayuqn.guiaolq “TWA upo'ssseubuaGiuosgs0or] “WyHg Wal DWOEe
. NVId ONLINVId] AEyO38 NUJOPE “L¥LNOD Fd ‘INOSOLIO S¥ONT UO¥LNOD
7 = age | 9e8z'696 2021 8e “DG 225" 165'059 lo pulbganby>epPe TN
° TaRuNS OHAvIOOOL| SILER AN ‘S¥OK S¥T (2096 ¥9 'SOTENO NYS Gioe6 ¥o ‘HONCHOESTIA
OL) GUNS "Jiv vONGIOWH Is3m 0607 ‘MOO GNZ "WIE ONINWD 73 OBE! G¥ON HNIA 110)
Ep erie) “ONI'SHJANIONA SIND O11 “gon0s sno) 1
= ‘SNOUOIS ONIGTNG| ENO TOMO SERIO
. SNOILWA313 ONIGING YOU LX3|
5 'SNOMWASTA ONIGTINE BOREAL
5 NYTa 004 va. ro
. NYId 30013 GNNOHD|
* SNV1d Vauv G3SOd0ud| OM SHL
° SNVId 31IS G3SOd0ud GNv (3)| HLIM ONIG3IOONd 3YO49S NOWWTIOSIY HO4 HANMO ONY LOAUHOY SH 40 NOUNILUY 3HL OL LHONOYE
z, GuVvOE STVIESLYW| 9'0v, 38 TIWHS SJONYNIGHO ON¥ S9009 3A08¥ ONY SINAMMOO0 NOWLINYISNOD SH NI3M38 SLOMYNOD ANY
<< TO OVE ea ‘Addit TIWHS SINGMGRINOR! LNGONRUS 1SOM 3HL 'SINAMNGANOIS 3009 NI SLOMNOD JO INAR 3HL NI
«| any 000 Sovve /SHORHOFN Would LNOdans 40 $¥3.1151
o SN ONY NVEOVIO SS3OOV TUld SISATWNV 3000] ric] ssprauo oh <aco0 TOT oy ats gernaey ato mm +77
a % ‘DW SUNLXIS ONIGNN Td] 3009 ADMINA VINYOIMWO(2z0z ©
M09 'S12|GLEME MMM . 2 SWYYOVIG ALIMSISSIOOV ‘SISA'TNV 3009] sor . 3009 314 vINYOSTNO!Z202 +
9110 $86 01g *xe4 a SHV RONG P AONVaTT DORE MWY NOD} el 2 TUM “SoavaNs AONSIOLAA AOBNA ONG MNOATN} 2202 ¢
6126 886 O18 . XBQNIL33HS/ VAVG.105TOUd / 133HS WACO] Eo 3000 WoL vINwosrRO? 2202 *
80996 WO eu STFC OY A002 TWOINWHOAN YINNOSTVD{ZzZ0Z +
OL Sung “eens e\Koq ayes 3000 SoeWONS ONIOIING NABYD INOS! zz0z¢
ZO PILL SIWWN L33HS| ‘#133HS| WILNAGISAY YINNOAMVDZZ0Z *
2% | 3NMOA “3000 ONICTING YINHOIMWO\2Z202_#
NOLWONddY Sees
ONINNY Td ‘$4009 ONIMOTIOS SHL HLIM WHOANOD TIHS NOLLONSLSNOO Thy
SLOALIHDYV “TRIOS
TW
ivMS: X3QNI ONIMVUG $3009 31avolNddv



--- page 41 ---
SNW1d ONILIXS
8 AONVdNDDO
*SISATVNV 3009

sie

a5now
LYHNOD 31

WOd'S18/WTIEMS*MMM

9110 $86 1g *xBy
6116 $86 O1G FL
80906 V9 ‘ally
VOL BIN “eeNIg e1foq syAS

SLOSLIHDUV
SEI LLVMS

= vat

(AAV W1Vd 0812)
‘|Nigting ANaoVvrav (a)

YOOT4 GNNOYD - NV1d WVHSVIG ONILUXS

Wha.

[cavOT

&

yodnYOD Calva 3Mld HnOH-L

90S TIevL 2d NOW ys CALS 34 yNOH-L — — — —

IK) ONY Hive SS¥N0a TIelssa00v —---e—-€-

JORVES AONVENOOO VaEV/HOOE |

:N3937 WWHDVIC ONILIXa:

"SALON NW1d ONILIXA

‘niging sNaovrav (a)

YOO14 GNOOSS - NV1id WVHSVId SNILUXS

>> (0)

Jaouvd
AnaoWrav (a)

Jaouvd
\ Naovray (a)

(aay WTvd 0812)

‘|NigTing ANaoVvray (a)

Hie ieee.

YOOT4 GNNOWD - WVHSVIG 3G09 JONVLSIGC T3AVUL "XVI 8 NOILVYVdAS LUXS

emia $<) nln.99
‘SI NoWeteaS wpa

(rn

| \anaavrdva)
i \
Y

“woud
Anaovray (a)



--- page 42 ---
Ov

‘O1V9 SYNLXIS
ONIGINId

8 SWVYDVIG
ALNIGISSA99V
*SISATVNV 3009

ALON

a5now
LYHNOD 31

80946 WO ‘er
VOL eung “weuig e14oq cy—S

SLOSLIHDUV
SEI LLVMS

NOLLVIND1V9 SYNIXId ONIGWNId

ASH0N TeynoTW

z z z SaeOLWAT
(WoTaS 2# JON as) 0 0 1 STeNRIN.
z z z SIaS070 MaLyH

saw

40014 GNNOUD - WVWHDVIG NVId ALITISISSSOOV

(aay wiva 0812)
onlgna .Naovray (a)
i,
\ saouva
\veawer @
4LUNOO SINNAL AVI \
auva
uvau
Wood |
‘uous |i
+ ‘40.

; TwL0L casodoad eauinos FDL oNtawme
GaSOdOud # GAYINOAY SAYNLXId ONIGWN1d -€ dNOHD OO GNOSaS= NYHD VIC Na MINIGISSa550 z
( Snictung ANzovrav (a)
1
rl " 4
|| -wous 3)
Hm | 4 nS
NS ENS Solas = ) fe ;
/ sire
U iif ed
WY TLR / Ll | | eer, “HOLS f
ut
{ AYVWIWNS GVO LNWdND950 8 ‘410 ‘dNOwD
NOILVINDTV9 AYNLXIS ONIGWNId
aa ee WVHDVIGC NOLLVINDIVO SYNLXId ONISWNId £
*GN3931 HOLVH dNOYD AONVdNDSO ONIGIWNId NV1d YOO14 GNOO3S TILYVd NVW1d HOO14 GNNOYS
q (any wiva 0812)
, oniaTing .Naovray (a)
\

lpcenocconal



--- page 43 ---
INVYSVIC SNINAdO
TIVM "LX3 8
INVYOVIC SSADOV
uld ‘UW G3AOUddY
*SISATVNV 3009

a5now
LYHNOD 31

WOd'S18/WTIEMS*MMM

9110 $86 1g *xBy
6116 £86 O1S
809%6 VO a)

VOL eung “weuig e14oq cy—S

SLOSLIHDUV
SEI LLVMS

*GN3937 HOLVH WVYSVIC SSADOV Auld f

{603 Nougas
fécld Ml ¥ 40
Odd 40 NOWKOS

(ubgos
SSH0OY NY NO Snuvivddy ae
INE CaSOdOud 40 NOUYOd

AONFLSIO ,OS! 3HL 40 NOLO

oning
Wa tsa

4OO14 GNNOUD - NVid WVHOVIG SS30OV Sula

N 804 —-/Z NO NOUWONddY MNNY SBS L

iuinoo sINNaL Av

2
if }

"SALON INVYDVIG SSADOV 3ul4 2

*GN49371 ONINAdO TIVM

TOOT A

TAL SST OL HOT

|

ezigiy “SLva Fi ‘imeubis jeyssew ons
weoUlsA “L

ezoz/Zte|

00'zsz$

‘SeyBNH] USSUSP TSSUIBUT UOROSIOIG SS :NOLLISOd

€202/9/? | ‘Suwa
UNE PUN :Aa camainge

Au asp 29yJ0 404

AlESSOOOU J] SJOOYS [EUONPPE TERY

NOILVOMddV SNVAN SLVNUALIV

“suojeiedo BunyBysiy soveyu yoddns 0} woos abei0}s sem OUp Ul UORIEULCO

‘Aled @80y adidpuR}s jam jenueW e apincid 0} Sesodoid wee} UBiSep uy ‘AeuoIppY “(IS 00S") e}OWe

o daIN3aq

@ Galnved

0} Adoo ely (¢ pue
LV LNAWLEVd3

‘suejd ea1yo 0} Adoo yore (z ‘irew Aq yueoydde (1

'5] 3Senbos oy) yeu ensue 0} seopoeid pezjuBooe: se
eu UO paseg jesodoud ay} payenjens jeyssew a4 OY

“suo|s}Aoud opoo jeujB 110 oy 0} TUB|EATIDS FS
‘se ‘spsepueys pue sepoo paziuBoves Ajje!

WM
Aq panouddy

GI/ET/T-POW
et /t/ 3180
Z00-Wus

‘Uj Jeno JS/UB S}°0) pleZeY AIEUIpIO ©} JS 0OS"T B|OWS! Sy} JAD Js/WAB O10) PIeZeY JUBy Woy Bul

‘ay) NoYBnoLtp Aysuep JepyuUdS ou SSea!oU! 0} Sesodoid weD} UBISOp ou ‘SOUEISIP ]00}-0G1 OLN O}eBNIW OL

-payoene aq Aew eye Jo sjeays jeuomppy “Jsanbay ajensny 0) iessaoeu y sue|d ywWaNS :LSANOIY &

“(K-20 uonDeg 940) peos sss00k ue Uo snyeredde euy e Jo 199) OSL UIYIIM 94 0} ve BuIpIING a
Jo Aiojs ySuy 949 J0 SIEM 10NE}xE BY) Jo SUOMOA je 40} SUBEW! B]EUIO}/e Ue sjsenbes UONeDIdde IY,

“F'€0S UORDES DID -uoneoy;pouwyayewsoye Guypoou uoyoes apoo a

nog siuue] e1eAlid | oae 40(SI3sn 6LLES8601S| SNOHd
0] sunniow 809%6 VO ‘eninKiewa | sszuaay
= diz ALIO. POL eung ‘eens s[Mog syes} ssaucav
‘peod sse00e snyesedde aly & JO 189) OSL UILAIM Buleq BuIpiing ey ERESE s9uKRIY SEIN |HeNS | YROLLLSE
30 Sijem 1008)X8 Ai0|S-381y 4) JO SUOHIO [Je SyeBqIN O) Jers ely e BuuNp suoAdo BunYByaly jeuoRIppe GUM aev| 825 va 961'662059| 3NOHa
quaumedap a1y ay) epiAold jm UORDAUUCD AeA Osoy adidpuEIs ey “BuIpyNg ou) YGNoNA peaids aly Sonpal 2|_sarious Ob0¥6 vo ‘uBnovoqsiIH | ssauagy
Bil | aaionuses snes peoy owen LoL] ssaucav
UE ail) e JO UO|Ssaiddns aly enoidul| 0) papUaTUT S| BuIpaNG eu noUBNaI AisuEp JpUNTS ayy BUISeeIOU| soos | 0m ra youd ooiccgs ESN
o1s-e10-600 | Nav G0Fr6 VO ‘omteH UES ‘enuony wied yelz | SS3daav gor t

“syuewe6ipn|
y6ue 10 ‘sprepue}s peziuBooe! AyeuoneU seyj0 40 ‘OSs Wd-IN JO en exp yBnows) po}

9g 4m sejouajeninb3 me] eIeIS Aq pasinbas se TOR
aqeuroye

‘“bueng ‘

WM
:Aq panouddy

6I/ET/T-POW
anf 0
Z00-Wus

(6°01 949) NOLLONYLSNOD JO GOHLSW NO TWINSLVI SLVNUALTW YOd LS3NDgS
("701 949) 3GO9 4O NOILVOISIGOW NOs LSanosza O

“OJU Je4LN} JO} Mojag suONdes epoo ejeUdodde ey) eag “peyeles oq IMM ‘sasnjeUBis BuIpnjoU
‘suogeordde ejejdiucou| “e/q\ssod se Ajeye|dwoo se uoneoydde SIM} {NO II-4 :-LNVOIIddV OL SNOILONYLSNI

wm
:Aq panouddy

61/ET/t:POW
u/t/t 980
Z00-Wed



--- page 44 ---
SOV

AIwLad

MOVe Syd 8 FOVEVD
/ SHOSHDIAN
INOYS LHOddNS
dO SY3L131

MN Td
NNW Te

7 PLR
SANA eR

a5now
LYHNOD 31

WOd'S18/UEMSs MMM

9110 $86 Clg *xB4
6116 S86 OLS
20906 V9 “
VOL BINS “eeNIg efoq Gye

SLOSLIHDUV
SEU LLVMS

“AV WVd 0812 Lv HOSHDISN WOYS LYOddNS 4O H3LL3T

Tyo T aed

a ery

wio>yssuBisqunoasig

8899-£€£-059
OLOr6 v2 awebUlLing
“any uejoseD N ZTET
subis 1UnoDsiq

27 Dees}

€9ET 664 0S9
>PIN

isqueUL

ssaippe Auadoid pur ‘aweu ssauisng ‘aueu snoA Bulpn|put ‘>2afod
Aut Joy uoddns snod GuiwwsyuOD |eUsa UB ALY _PUaS PINOD NOA #14! areIDaIdde AjyeaJ6 PInoMm |

ssoquBiau Aw wio1 uoddas
Jo suanie] 326 | 41 oafoud Aw 0} ajqeuawe a1ow Yonus aq jI1M Sje!>yJO UMOI ay SAeS I>ay!YD18
‘AW ail Yai 40 24,004 reyp EurAes jpeusa ue au GUNOOYS PUI NOA inom ‘ajdiauLAd Ul YO a4,NOA J)

‘moUy aus 23] aseajd “suONsanb Aue ancy NOA Jf “ajqissod se a21U vat axEUN OL UEM
| ‘suejd ayy wo4y 335 URI NOA se pu ‘pooysoqyBIaU ay) Oy UONIPpE IeasB B aq {Im BUIDIING SIYL.

yan xau AID By 02 BUITIUIGNS aq |I!M
| sued Areunwjasd aya ase payreny “AepsarsaA nod 02 Gupjyer 18216 Sem a] “2194 A PIN

“essi IH

210." EE 290149 9121N27 wa 25:¢ 38 Tz0z ‘ZT das ‘us UO

‘dn 41 186 nod 119 Wem 3,ue> “pooysoqyBiau ay? Or UONIPpE 1ea16 B aq |

“e216 S00} siyL

anbiy yINaT 20h

aa12ees| | :wos

uu 1ysiiheg 2yDeq Wd E5°P2'9 Ie TzOZ “ZT JaqWiaidas ‘eps ava
aBnoy 1uNoD a} — ary WIed POTZ :2y sWalgns

Een

‘uit, 1481)Ae 2y!Ded T0:ZS:60 38 TZOZ ‘Oz saquiardas ‘AepuoW

140 T aed

MOVE SIG ONDYVd STOADI WHAL-LHOHS GaSOd0ud |

pone sii ya

usin reaES Ss

i

oss ayes

soe as sae | 92040
SBE OOS? a'e'S

ips)

(punos6uy san dooH suond au wom POW

svaquay 01)

sdigpunoy_ punosiy Ypey.emH) ajay

adi
punoy

fqn,

(2dig punoy)
+ ZOUDM
‘Malp 1UOLY ain apg
1 wwe
a |e uo =
sO a i
gase192000 1
ana| puns i
wee

{suo}si9n 49> pue 9: uo)
sajoy eB

wre
~ WE i

‘adid punoy

Ze anu vesDg gzL 7 MhaID iauye
meg ESHTVOCeRG IAL GzHO'eCe'

¥50 2176 ¥> 028
wor Surpedonqaoqi'3 ze0%

.WOD°ONIDNd Vd S18

“HAW WVd 1022 Lv HOSHDISN WOUS LYOddNS 4O H3LLAT

arora
9656-506-059

>on so my Ute
(4abeuew) sapaoy yar ‘(O49) 4a34Bne|s e14yyUAD
ipooysoqyBjau ay} 03 SwWOD}aM “sn 0} POo6 400] Ady} ‘sUEId INCA JAA Paxoo] 2M

“synod
s|uua3 Mau BU) 10 SUBId NOA sn BuIMoYs pue JjasuNoA BulDNpO.QUI Joy syUYL

‘ypIN BUIWIOW POoD

Sui WYTyAeG DYI9ed Wy £Z:T P36 Je TZ0Z ‘OZ Jaquiaydas ‘Aepuow = :9e#G

en

‘uit, 1y811AeG 2yIDed £705:60 38 TZOZ ‘Oz sequiardas ‘AepUOW

@

ONIINVS 13 OS 1642 LV HOSHDISN WOWS LYOddNS 4O H3LLAT

oulied 13 05 1614

z

omiausnd ew
Braquesso uy

189

@

‘sn Jo} 9j@,Uax9 POOE ORME jn JBL SORIANDE ann!sod

f 885 0} payoxe Wan,

poowoqybieu ey)

‘ney pue s3119q

‘201 Aisa SyO0} “Sn yj Sue|d NOK BueYSs 10} SyUELLL

"OIN

IH

worjoe@podueiuns :wo1y
ULL 1YBHAEG 2yIDed Nid 8ZLz-8Ie TZOz ‘9z JeqUAIdas ‘AepuNs — :aVeG
sued aoqu aafqns

[bi

aun wyByAea 2uPed Zp'y0'9T 3e 1202 “Zz s9quIaNdas ‘epuOW

N

“SAV Wivd 691-2 Lv HOSHDISN WOUS LYOddNS 4O Y3LLAT

2608-Sr¢ (0S9)
WOT CORD IEA 7
£0%¥6 VO ‘ORIEN UeS ‘enueny Wed 691Z

yeday Yoru B ony s,uosMe7
sesaquog vent

‘spiebey seg

‘St20Ui09 JO SuoRsanb Aue Brey NOs 4! Bus [EUs 40 jJ20 0} 88 [924

‘uorunyy 0} eww09 yoafoud siy Bulges

0} pieMuo} Yoo} @M *PooWIOGUBISU ELA 0} Y9IN eWOD}em om pUE suE|d Joofad oy] pemelnaL

hm “anueny Wied 79LZ UO UeId pasodoid 5,yOIN JO} Hoddns Au sseudxe AjjeULiO$ 0} OY! P.L

“wieou0g Kew 3] WOUM OL

TIVLAd S.YAYNLOVANNVW YOOd aDveVD

Souris ae w
aWwisd anv 200 13HH8
‘3 sh bu Gnawa 108 2206 Hons gor BSS TR
(snorsnsima WIAs) onde {
caminoss —— # wouisoa
WWi3G ONINAGR LavKSxOWe
(umes).or |
3 ARAL O
SRR m+ 2
avon REESE. SNINSaO EAT NO 3

$2 O10 meza-neu
vam on agus aswanse OL moa ALIS 2mo7D O
‘oud 0 2 euBAGY OL 2002 ALZWWS OuvRMoNd
Gssonnace 19d Him Fave 1000 Woaes aL Seco

Aus SOS/S5OTG/NH0 LONLNOD AeLNOHON DAL ESAT Shoe

1001 Limo = oNac7

SEs Gi san Sova
re” COTE Lt es

SNINSaO NEAL NOWOSS

(Se aH9 48, souyro) aur
Fae REY a Se nonsan Y CaINROn
Je dolvasso Solon ‘hl Saonoge eee SW

|

LOTS ONO

AP ROLE TE

(sue.

C__]

ermgoey 0-1
THOGH SNw3s0

(ais “9/s “8/0) ——— goa. sx.

“Siowss oars

PE ES o

ni INSSEES

qescmcn ow soon 70. SUIR ISSEY

TRS Ee AN Sos tee I cai anche ease

$nbethsa Ral nene

SH Gan dee on

NOILVASTS SOSLNI

z2liEs

|

aT oH

x

Y
1

L_]

: J

Fig own

VWILdO WYO4 1331S

2800 | eee i wie inns noes fi



--- page 45 ---
9°0V

auvog
S1VIdALVN

(ALON

ONIHOLVW HOOG TWLaW dn-110H “|

YO109 LNADOV (>

WALSAS HOO GNV MOGNIM WOANIWN1V G3aZIGONV 3ZNOUS MH >) .

SNIHOLVIN THAN SHIM 318V9 ‘S'S HLIM TIVHGHWNDS HVE LW14 1441S 7 3

WALSAS HOO GNV MOGNIM WANIWINTY 7--)

INALSAS YOOd GNV MOGNIM WOANIANIY (cS)
ONIHOLVIN 14NVd GaZIGONV SZNOUS WHvG ~~

HSINI4 HALSW1d LNAW39 HLOOWS /,)

AdONV9D SLSHDNOD GASOdxXA4 SLNIOP 1V3AaY GNV DNIGIS (>)

WA4LSAS HOOG GNV (>)

a5now
LYHNOD 31

9110 $86
6116 S86
809%6 VO
VOL BIN “eeNIg e1foq syAS

SLOALIHDEV

1v HO109 LN399V SDNVHO \

\ (enueny wed) uonengie ysee

TANVd LN3IN39 Yaad ez

(ews uoneng|e yynos pue ysem) UONeAe|e YLOU

MOGNIM WONIWNTV G3ZIGONV 3ZNOUs MYVa ~~

SE LLVMS

SNIGAV19 HAANAA (;
Olde NIH. Gay

ATaINASSV (>)
4OOU INav4s ~~



--- page 46 ---
NV1d ALIS GASOd0ud
(AAV Wivd 0812)
SONIaTINa LNZOvray (a)
NV1d ALIS LN TH
aasOdOud a aRs0d0ed
8 NV1d ALIS (a)
SYNLONELS

{8NOS SINNSL AVIS uWA

os (wae Onto 73 1612)

@ Sniatinea
sien Anzovrav (a)

, OloHa | <

(Wau ONIWV9 72 SZz)
LOT ONDVd INFOvray (3)

mS

f

+

(wae ONIWV9 72 S212)
oNiating LN3Ovrav (a)

NV1d SLIS DNILSIXS L

(aAV Wid 0812)
SONIaTING LNZOvray (a)

Se@LL — M00.08.665.
a5now
LYHNOD 31
()
W
Pan (iva NINO 73 1612)
&® SNiaina
4nzovrav (a)

M,00,08.bEN

ford

SALON SLIS 1VHAN39

ere —_3,00,00.95N

|, gow
En

(way ONWWO 7B Sz12)
LOT ONDIVd INFOvray (3)

abr oatine (0)

eH AcoNeD aLREINGD C3SO.NG (N)

Hoey MOTUS TERM (6)

(way ono "a S212)
ONIcINa LNZOvrav (a)

WOd'S18/WTIEMS*MMM

9110 $86 1g *xBy
6116 £86 O1S
809%6 VO a)

VOL eung “weuig e14oq cy—S

OC] OO} O|O©}|O©/O©O/©|O]|©|©|@|©

SLIALIHDYV SAL OL Bert MUS GB) Nr HN
SE LLVMS S3LONASY



--- page 47 ---
SNV1d VAHV
qgasod0udd

ALON

a5now
LYHNOD 31

80946 WO ‘er
VOL eung “weuig e14oq cy—S

SLOSLIHDUV
SEI LLVMS

NV1d VayvV HOO14 GNOO3S

__ SALON NV1d Vauv TWHaNaD

NWid Vaydv YOO14 GNNOYD



--- page 48 ---
NV1d
¥OO14 GNNOYS

pu Saver
FN SSuRIay

|, ROWDY BS Ray BRNO SHL ME
HL He Tako AL EAL Neu

Ss 42 CANGNNOORE SY LVD wor
ny 0 ROWAN NOT #9 ¥ aD ONUSSACD dew BneCUS eBMLNOD NEUOETIND Use CMOS

elolelelololololele

SALONAAM

\Y? NW1d WILYWd - 30VdS ONIN Vd JTOADIE WHAL LHOHS

a
cm

‘aN

ay 34075.

a5now
LYHNOD 31

WOd'S18/WTIEMS*MMM
9LLO S86 OlS *xe

6116 £86 O1S
80966 V9 ‘amakrowly
VOL eUNg “eens s}fog yes

SLOSLIHDUV
SEI LLVMS

ane THe
onbiste =

NW1d YOOT4 GNNOYD

dl

(aAV WTVvd 0812)
‘|NIcuna ANaO vray (a)

&

eH aes
v zuxa

oct !

vauy dn WHVM,

ALE

oo
()
710-8
T

T
bis

T

|

|

i
42

|
at,
a

TS

Ths Th

4% STWS SNMEd G30 0-81

Hut

Th

avae

DAH HE)

aeoov snomns |< ER (vay ona 18s
qwOuvd
pel 3 Anaavrav @)



--- page 49 ---
NV1d
Y¥OO14 GNOOAS

SoG) hows ONEAMHD TSK ORL

4008 OISAE UTE BAL LF SOU

3M 008 ON

auunans 385 OST Yair onbRns HeRAG Ay oNATICRE/HOW BO BEY eNIOE Ok

ny 0 ROWED NOD 99 ¥ AD SNUG Dew Somes

jomneas 12 nanan

OC] CO] OO] O/©/©|©|O}|@

SALONAAM

a5now
LYHNOD 31

WOd'S18/WTIEMS*MMM

9110 $86 1g *xBy
6116 £86 O1S
809%6 VO
VOL eung “weuig e14oq cy—S

SLOSLIHDUV
SEI LLVMS

oe

NV1d HOOTS GNOOSS

onicrina snaovray (a) &

dl

ERS

‘aH

A OT

AHNOO SINNLAVIO

Th

\ DAH HE)



--- page 50 ---
SOUS-E IU BAL LF CBSOAON THN

NWTd SOON J canes ony sav anes wtcia x arscaencea Sy SIMS

@ GRaMNCZaE Y) LO
ny 0 SOBA NOTIN 99 ¥ 40 9) er SRC AMINO NOULATIOG

oq anes} SALONAAM

OC] CO] OO] O/©/©|©|O}|@

iON Se

a Nviaaoou | |

‘|9NIgTING INZOVrav © M738 4008 ()

r Se IP

) *
41YHNOD 31 / =e Joos oes soousatvn

j AUNLONULS LHNOD SINNAL

SLOFE 2%
uh,
“

oad

74,00,08.76N

suoet
i
a

MN
pag

NA OT

oe

WOd'S18/WEMS* MMM
9110 $86 1g *xBy
6116 £86 O1S
809%6 VO
VOL eung “weuig e14oq cy—S

SLOSLIHDUV
SEI LLVMS



--- page 51 ---
Lev

SNOILLVAA14
ONIGTING
YOIMSLXA

HLNOS - NOLLVAS13

(Cuoou annous 4

“DAVIN TVd

FAL INOW 8.05 Oddy
NOUNS 1S FHL AF 2A

wie aa
WORE 8°, 05F

0=15,8/1

L

(NOLLVA31A “SAV W1Vd) LSV3 - NOILVAS13

—

a5now
LHNOD 31

VOL Bung “weug e1foq cya

SLOSLIHDUV

~Al

GE

“«

(ore) “ais "3000 Gone ad vawss
SISNET (MOON, TTY
NL IE
_NOOTH_ONZ
eet WIG HSM Teg HOTA

ONKOL STENYd THAN



--- page 52 ---
cev

SNOILWA314
SNIGTIINa
YOIMALXA

HLYON - NOLLVAS13
f HE HLoOnS Hie
(Hai acs aNaD BoE HN Vv
4 (4 “NU
Pe (wooT anges.
E votl+ A
Le °
| § \_£ | "BAY WIV
lew. 1
Bx PB
es: |
Be) :
E | aa Ng
= a

Oar

Il 4930 4008

spa __ — | i = a a a To a a a _ a ep ris
: eee eee oe ee eee ed vor 73
AN] tn cai a 2 mn
{wan socal vj
| Ue
poe a
a ~~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~ a ~~ a ~~ a a a ne a
| © + + |
1
L (40109 HO ~/€ vad 33S) | 4
y 1S3M - NOILVAS1a NOILOAS - TIVL30 TIVM HV3E “WOIdAL 3ON3d HVS" © TANVd 13 NINOW GaS0d0ud
i
Dan —
se [on rae nomm eee TE v v oq
(yooTd ON 1 Fel
Ca c+ RE | i! =
* ee | _ ; oon
IE ; soota aNnO¥9 =
i S 07+ AT $e
39now ,
LHNOD 31 5 — —
jo one gf — — —- |—
oad 4o0u , | 4
Twanlonls “OL so — s 4
<
SINNBL OL
eve x a a — — — a ¢
|
r

WOd'S18/WTIEMS*MMM

9110 $86 1g *xBy
6116 £86 O1S
809%6 VO a)

VOL eung “weuig e14oq cy—S

SLOSLIHDUV
SEI LLVMS

ay 122} JIMBO NUDHY



--- page 53 ---
= 00

NOILOAS IVNIGNLISNOT £
ee :
3S aL
V — t TOR ff THO nO SH + fa 4
( ou NE . ie- 5
voZl+ a —— ae = 1 oo ——
“aAV NT | x peeeed vauy dn WEVA I | l= Nove LBS 51 ONINSO P
a = Fat er
a | ONDINVE FEEE x | | Se
7 ! +. bs
= ( H 2 TW TH
SNOILOAS 7 Hh) | ;
> |
i
ONIGTIING ' r. ]
| i Ty | ——
is a Adv Nog ————— = _ a a —_—— _ < _ a ner
S//sirts 4
BS “4000 SS¥I9 ONIONS CALBIOGE | Al 7A
2 dO aL aca |, ‘SAUUAWOW SINNALASOd |= Woousay f
—— 5 OL “ald “US a |
= as 2 A ; unions
. VT. soon ssv19 owas w+ | ee.
oad 4004 v ~ A AAT 4 te
muons og |  " .  .  ,  .,». | bo i 7__:!hlUUhmOmO™UCUCNNhhhUhLULULULULULUhULUhLUhLULULUUhLl fb eer
' Als _— a = 4-4 = —— ses == 7 == [2 a a
ort aa PT |
TE, ir
“| | |__----
ai awogs | < Wve Die —
=| I {aOR TELL WalnHo3Hl ~S
eest aaa PO — i — — es — a a — —_ — a NN oe — - i
snanassr 4008
EX ought eed, J\/ ow 3 7
New, 4 TIBUSIENO-NON FAL OL WaDrTO
UNUONAS LAND SINNL Th, aewid TEN 2
NOILOAS SSOHD ¢ NOILOAS SSOHD
N “Tih
oanived WAN
; Em +
Tame awa) —|eremah\e/| amd Nid SIRNA og
Sore “we etso|\/ (007d ONNOSD ‘yh ¥ .
PS amma] |e/eeho|\Y Ott aH T
7 wha ‘ oe
union! “wea
a = T 1
' | ]
aunibnuis \
£0800 ‘Ne ‘SINNAL
cauneweeod 3 |
16 90 “ORIN ood aoRe¥o THNOULES | | R
ana ee ee ee | i + ee
BOO ON gly — — | _ — — —_
vosz+ 7a Y & t & J o x
a5now 4 | ie LI
Ra \ is se
1unoo 31 i ek fF!
|
yo3q 4004 \
TweMMoNws “OL $ =
O0r+ ES t
| |
Wr: 7 “Te 284 | .
7 (as sera va 0ue8aLN ait aD 908 ! !
a | 1 > etisnanvoa-vow opt | |
I | ws ¢ a —
0a) = 1 BI
Y \ WwW
aunLons aealonals .
_SINNAL OL dy a a eee _ — _ a a _SINNAL OL gy J | a _ Lf. — NCO-WON
ieyst 0a Jfvs+ 3G By Smal 3108-7 ~ $s we BS SIL
| | | JHOGH NN 40 NOLIO8 Be
| I |
YIVLS LV NOILOAS s YIVLS LV NOILOAS 4
aN “4 NI Ek 3
( wOEL+ “ARE welt NTE =
=e z
24 so
" = =
au NU
WO09'S1J0/W]EMS*MMM a YOO ANZ vd oN 4 _
vaz+ a 4 ci ae
9ul0 see o1g poet aT oect ome
6126 S86 O18
80946 V9 ‘el > Hf
VOL eUNg “eens s}fog yes S
SLOALIHDYV a a oan AAAS OEP PLE eens APIS ASRS
"
SEA LLVMS



--- page 54 ---
ann MOT

ANVUCAH Bud

2213N WoRMLOTB

. X08 LNO=NV3TO

gavuelogs NISv@ HOLVO
BATA 2aLVM >aVNHONSS

2@3W wave Nivad Vauv
uno 40 dob ‘INT SMS AVLINYS

J xa] snorsvay | ed fo / LHON LzRUS
j-[ Pay spf STOH ZONVNGINIVN MGS AuVLINYS
i-[ =] / fav f, ALNO-NVITO UGMBS AUVLINYS
i-[ =| f uh fe Tod anor
' DEAN ANN GvaaNO ToRLOTE
YOHONY AND ann AuvaNnod —— =

SALON GNV GN3537

ning 5
291, Ge ONROBHDEN , oniaing
“d¥W ALMILN_NO yh Ole a3 ONRIOBHOEN
aaSve NOUVOO1 a y
SS BLVWIXOUddY,

AWAMNS OIdVaoOd OL

ALNNOD OALWN NYS.

99'sz=ay
oNnigne
oom

VINUOUTTV)D

00°82 = M,00,06.4EN

wo
o>
mn
Zo
2
=
ae
es]
Om
Z
ic
f&

a Ov'S=ANI soz ‘91 AI ‘alva 3AU03I8
9 C /68"O =I 49910918090 “ON
dWW LVa JONVENSNI GOO Vad
(wats) avn (wnuva 98 GAN OL Galsnray)
‘ALVY ZONVYNSNI GOOTd LNEYYND wad 9°01 = NOWWATG
(rrva eBcAWN) sz stag) AWHdSY NI_13S XNIHS ONY OVW
NOWLWAT GOO'U 3Sva YVHA—OOt AINI0d “OXLNOD ABAUNS

or «8

O1¢—£20-6£0 ‘Ndv

Wounponag sue Sauov FC" / 1334 BIVNOS F5z6'r1
Hv "3NOZ 0014 NI MYVWHONE| SLiSs @ ALNBdOUd LO3PENS._NO, ‘S} 107 GBASAUNS SHL 40 VSEY SHL
5 Sav AlugdOud LOT'ENS JO SNOUOd “BONY 4O/GNY NOWLONaLSNOD ‘NOWMORaG
(

SS HION d001d Wad “Gu OL uous il OL SuatOY seed SAY SNOLWAHT Boo'd HSIN
(0300014)

“SOLO NIWA

980r—Ze8 (01s)

SbSPE VINNOINVD “ONVAAVH
SIM AMY “TWRLSNGNI S6bz

GALNVED SI (01S—£40-6£0 ‘Nd¥) OS Nd
“3ZIS_4O SHLdad ‘NOWVOOT “BAT ANNOYS
ye. ; (wnuva g8 GAWN OL Galsnray) Av (ONIGIS/OD9NIS) WIaLWW C3HSINE
Z9OI= WI 84'S = NOUVATTS 1z0z ‘k_BNAP 40 S¥ Galva ‘00-1%esz009¢0 OL NMOHS 3Y¥ SINIdLOOs ONICTING
Sr. HINGS dM ANNGAY_GUEZ 3% “WSN ONINYD “ON ¥AGMO ‘ANYANOD JUL ONENdsy GO
svo8 Gh A Ta NIMBY ATAN GONG ALN @und 40 dOL 48 GBNSSI LYOdTY TUM AUWNINTTEUd SHL “STVNIOgG ONY 1334
—— ’ 2GHSYM ONY WN L3SWva ee NYY SNOISNANIG ONY SONVISIO TIY
dW ALINIOIA 010-290 HRVMHONGE OALYH NYS 20 ALO SION INSWSSVa SSLON

ONY S3ZIS ‘SAdAL Jdld GNNOYONIGNN TW

ALON ALMLA MYVNHONS

WOO "az ves vSaT MMM

ONIIING
SNISOSHOEIN



--- page 55 ---
‘yeudssep o1n jo wosvc0 anus
24 pou pesoes 0 psn eeoxcnp 6

tou few ous oun pue empesyare edeoopuel x S.1390d HIV BIVNIWITS OL 0300013 ONY ONLLNYId 4O SLL 3H 4O SYNOH Z NIHLIM G3uSLvM

3a TIVHS ONLINVId SUS GNV 33H “ONITLLAS ONY ONINSIVM HBL SdvYO G3HSINI4 SAOBV «i OL .2/t 38 TIVHS SNMOHO INV Id

My “ONULNV1d UALAY ATALVIGAWMI - G3 TIVLSG S¥ 3ANS YO GS¥VLS GNV ONNV Id Hal4¥ L03U3 38 TIVHS SLNVId

elteptin wet Sypoodde uote Lat
PUB sBuINBp ‘sidecu00sbeps my "E2029

Ov

WWLAG ONILNV 1d

TIVELOOU XZ XSF

ino uonenyddy Bus au . . “WadIVO HONI Lad € - Sau X08 “o'9 St USIaWWIG Lid INVId
Yad 9°0'D S Had € “O'D | H3d 2 ‘Sd 1S39 HO SLATEVL INVId WHS tz WHOSINDV HUM ONILNY 1d 40 SWL SH1 Iv SINVId 3271134

“G3XIW ATHONOUOHLL ‘INAWGNSWY TIOS Livd | WOSdO SLuvd 2 38 TIVHS XIN TOVE ONNVId
:ONLLNVTd SNUHS ONY 3auL

“TOS ONLISIXS 3OvIdaTY

{2Ipayps 224 anrsuayesduno won "310H 40 WOLLO8 N3S001 ‘ALvAVOXA

aad se aryen 11 49d § pauyop Ayjenuue ay) x —— = 2p] —
ASNOMWS GOOMG3Y GIS Z/t “OS ONUSIXS ZL “XIN

ous mojo} Se paretnote> 1!4}aP anjed Mn ue 2q mM 21242 (a) wer 4290018 I (p) a “ONILNV Td 40 SIN 3H JO SUNOH f NIHLIM SIN Id BLVM “GSIVOIGNI SV UO "9'0 WZ LY SONLLLND G3LOOY INVId p
rs “Bung BOWES S11 TOSS AID SH OT PSO S88 : "WalAWVIG HON! 3NO NVHi Ualvau9 ‘Sidaad OOH 40 VaH¥ ONILNV Id HvS1O “NOS: ‘WuN3O 3SN SSIMYZHLO ‘G31SIOSdS SY XIN THAHOVE
3HL OLNI STVIEBLVW ONILVHOdOON ‘sP 40 H1d30 VOL TILOLO INSWGNAMY HLM 'S 0001 /SE101 Ly USZrILNE -OL-O-01 AlddV
oz o_s 9 soon posnbay 549040 soars 10] upped ‘52084 “I'OS 0001 Haid INSNGNSINY IOS STUVA SIGND SHIM S¥BEV ONLINYTd GNSIY T
H ns mau Jo) swweweunbos aunansqns TOTPUEOTTOTTPPE UT aq i1eys 529.21 weWare|das MON. 2ONUNVTd H3A09 GNNOHD ios ONULSIXg—
er 3. =pasodoid ujaq san MOU MEA NTIENOL E
" a ¥ X09 YU BY “%01 NVH1SS31 S3d01S 4O SV3YV NI HOINWOO3 SNH JO .£ NY %01 . P
SF O € 509 YSU SE z YANO S3dO1S HO4 HVE HOOT 1S3UO4 YO HOTNINOOA 40 .£ 40 WNINININ ¥ HLIM G3HO INN 38 Ol SUV SV3UY GSLNY Id TY HON WO | Va Had “WO Sa Hadz
NW1d a ae HOM 3HL 40 NOUL371aNOD NOdN G31d300V 38 TIM HSIVM ONIGNVLS 10H rea va ues S. mon ye
a ees. AVHL S1OdS MO1 ON “SOVNIVHG 3OV4UNS VAY ONLLNVTd TV GNY SNIGYED TYNI4 HOs J1SISNOdS3Y 38 TIVHS HOLOVEINOO SHL NOTES 9 OL sy “SOVS $-01-02 SHOWALSSS SSZTIULNSS
ONILNV 1d SEA NT ROL onneA m1 aS Aagwaen “INBINOO LIS HOIH HO SGaS GaaM ‘SI#GId 4O JW 3G TIVHS STIOSdOL GALLON “GaAVS 36 OL

‘S3SHL ONLLSIXS 4O SLOOY MOTIVHS JO SV3UV NI ONITILL GIOAY “SLSWMN3SU9 SINVDUO GaLSOdNOD %0S GNY 1SNGMYS GOOMGSY
‘CAISIHLLIN %05 4O XIN V 40 GSOdWOO 38 TIVHS INSWONWY 10S “NIN .9 40 HLdad VO1 TILOLOY ONY SV3UV ONLLNVId TIV
NO LNAWONAN TOS .2 GVaUdS ‘GAdQV SI TOSdOL ON i “Tid HO 1OSdOL ONIGV3dS OL HOId + 4O HLdaG V OL 10S ONILSIXa allt

*l0SdOL GNV ONIaVED

“=PaUUE |g DUET SSL MON SWAIS INVId JO HV310 4351 HOTNW 40 BSAVT£-

Juqueyd aan y2ans 5 9 ayo} pled 29) ,na-u, ue 4 ans uo parued aq Jayde Yen ‘anoge(p) 03 auateninbe anjen(n1) w1UN adeaspue, ¥ “T1vaL00H 40 $3003 N3SOOT
edeospuey] SSSA , “NOLLTTANOO 40 31vO WOH SHLNOW € HOd G3SINVEVND 39 OL uv SSI1YO 3ZIS OS 40 “AQVEO HSIN NVHL SHOIH .pie -.2/t NMOHD L008 13S:
SINVIid ‘NOLL3TANOO WNId 4O V0 3HLWOUs HVA I NOLLIGNOO ONIATHHL NI 38 TIVHS HSOUVT HO 321 NYO NOTIVO Si 40 SaSuL
Pro Ip =9+ qe] 3329) nay-u jo awed ysnouye "3ONVNGLNIVIW ONY 33INVEWND
me yu 40/pue panexias aq 0k anjen m wnUsLIY ‘
<0 onsa, “NOLVTWISNI INV 1d 01. HOtd G2A0UddY 38 TIVHS ONIGVHD GNY ‘SNOUW907LINVId ‘SINWId
° mp vomenjena 204) a9 wos SINIL SIH IV G3/A10838 38 TIVHS SWS 1dOUd HTHLO HO S3IONWaSHOSIG
te ar " aun wo "NOLLONYLSNOO ONINNIORE OL HOlUd 3ALLVLNASSHdaH S.UENMO SHI LOVINOO TIVHS HOLOVHLNOO 3dVOSONVT SHL
oor pparousas 9035991150 2njea (mn) aun ade2spuey
a :NoISIANadNs
owe ‘poniesaid aq 03 Joowerp 112918 10 YU! 9 e HAI [Kidd ASHI Sv $3009
£202/42/0 jaunpe42s uonenjen3 2241 wou; sean Sunsio 30 Joquinn SNIGTING INAUEND MOTIOS TIVHS ONY G114 3H NI S2QVHO GNY SINBN3SVa ‘SHOVEL’S ONININUSL30 Hs ALMisiSNOdSaY
TV BNNSSV Ol, HOLOVYINOD "103 LIHOMY Sd¥OSGNVT SHI 4O NOLLNSLIV 3HL OL [HOMO 38 TIVHS SNOILIGNOO LIS ONY SNVid
= 007 + -y-bs SE seany adeaspuer NSML38 S3IONadaUOSIO ANV NSWDUOM G30NSIGadG ONY HOLOVELNOO SqVOSGNV1 G3SNGOM V AS 3NOG 38 TIVHS HHOM
{e201 5p puemor unos Aew soiawep YoU! 9 Jo wnuAIAW e axe eys002 sIwaaNg9
‘unstcg-ease pode2spue} jo 994 azenbs poy od 909 1 yo ones uuu axel 0} 5120K04d|@sounbau ‘de>spue] —12'1Z UOInes ‘2poD BuIvO? 'SBLON ONIgVOSONYT
Surquejg aa1, pasinbay
ger
z oa m Cany wwe o8iz) i
re)
aS
az 0
of C€
> Fw /
25 4 ; za
& z
gh 2 alae l
Fy fo) =
fs € Pie
Q
mm =
andvi
vauven mm
——— . om
300 SYSEV SoH OMANI
enna }
WwW
en |
eis :
i ‘sia| sia) su] sia) sia [ saa j
ET
\ Ep
} — waar)

req SUOISIAEY

£202/+0/+0 | VW T S0e) z UNL] OPIS - 8] SUR] g UOPUOT | PUEPURIS - eUOWEOe x SNUBEG Wed]

136 Winans ONIN THOS sai
ays 9 TauOdsOnid USES FEATS Tess RATS, UNIONRUST URUOGSONT| —_SAd

wosuBseppienymam — oan
Lo¥e'z£6'S26 (4) ql_P5s|€ XBL PURRSZ MON) PREM MOTO, KEUE] WMAIONA| WALA
00b9"266°S26 (1) ayer Takeo Faia Ast, SNORE] SHH
> a orl + ATT WBRIOT payebeueA| EICUSUCA, BISESK SSISIT ma

96S%6 WO 9219 TUM, STVINNRWA

SOL @3ng “paig oxiwAI OZ8L

> q_For_e UST TEW ENG PARSSLEA| Tineog UNUTEG, SHOROUS EPUELOT) —__GaTT
a OH WSR EN PENG) P2BGHG, BPOFEUO] EIPUIST 7

aunqoeyyoue edeospue] a
| yen y P YWlvm|__3ziS|_ALO) SAWN NOWAOD| SAWN TWOINVIO8] TOBNAS
Asn INV1d



--- page 56 ---
SIBHS 70 40 10
SWviaq = O'v-9
O'L-3 NVId LNANLVSEL UALVMNYOLS O'S we ‘eines ieuAonaa ®
et id LNOHLIA SONSINNOD TIVHS NOLLTIONSG ON *t ALSNOD
Hg: NW1d BOvNIVAG  ONIDYHO O19 IN) BLVGOWNODOV OL ee clower” wr HSTONaG
XHQNI LAAHS > ™ & NOILITOWaG
“WGHL OL ONIGHODOW SWALI G3SOd0ud
NV ONS HLOG AdRGaA TIVHS ONY ‘NVId ONY AaAuNS
GALON 3AO8¥ 3HL OL 43438 TIVHS YOLOVALNOD 3HL
“Ov

g01z #a0r “W130 33S THO VATS SYNLONULSvasNI NID LOONdTI (N, ua
£@—2Z—-1 ‘dalva &

VO ‘OBL NYS
‘O'¥-0 L3GHS NO ¥ “IVIAG ZaS “WRG@LYW aSva
aaah a vale ‘BLVOBUIOY Z_SSVT .9 NO XOG ZOVTd ‘LUJAN ONIODLNO 1S3M01 /M
{GUNA SLOAMIHOUY S2QIN LIVMS AG NVId BLS Z HSIT1J WOLLOG ALZYONOD /M NISVE HOLWO--#Z—A ALSIMH: (N) TWISNI

area
fe sealer face JGBHS NO ¢ W130 33S “aSONNY NIVYO WYOLS LIM OL dWNd AWN (N) &

WO ‘OaLVN NYS
SNNGAV Wid #917 “SNOLLOSNNOD 3M ONY
SNNGAV Wid ¥91Z, SON3d .S¥ (Z) 3SN GVISNI GNY SGN3d .06 ONISN GIOAY ‘NOILISHIC
SOS7ULLLNG NM SBONVHO YOPWNN L¥ 3G¥¥S OL LNONVETD 30M0Nd “GALON 3SMYSHLO
“‘ONRITINIONA SZVYS % VFT AG ABAYNS OiHdVHOOdOL “} SSTINN SAN Ti LY WONININ %1 LV QNY Y3A09 WNNININ
[OL WLNAKGTddNS SI NVId 39VNIVUC GNVY ONIGVHD SIHL ++¥% NIVINIVN “(STIVM YORGLNI HLOOWS /M ZI-N SGV) 3dGH 40 (Sc
CS) OAd .9 WNINININ 3SN “WELSAS NIVYC WYOLS ALIS—NO (N) TWLSNI

GAN St0z ‘9 AT “Alva 3AMOaIsa aL ‘SALONS

SHONAYAATa 49910018080 "ON & & NIvad WaoLs
dW SV ZONVUNSNI GOO whas

O1s—£20-60 :Nd¥ ‘ian
alld) VN
O10%6 "vo "HONOWOES TH ‘ALYY ZONVYNSNI GOOTd LNEYUNO wad
7 WNLYG BSQAVN) Zt :(as8)
NOWVASTA GOO 3sva yvHA—001 ‘
23NMO Hy "3NOZ GOO” NI (Wnlva 98 GAVN OL GaLsnray) "O'C—O LGHS NO | “IVL90 33S “SAVMTWM/SOlLV¥d Ollvd AL3YONOO (N) &

NOILVWUOANI S,UHNMO BUY ALYBdOUd LOBENS 40 SNOWYOd GNY S3ZIS ‘Sad 3dkd GNNONOMONN TIY 99°01 = NOWLVATTS “O'0-0 ISAS NO Z “WIA 335 “LVAIAIO AVE SNOWABE (N)

aR a =i AA Daa LDWHdSV_NI_L3S UaNIHS ONY SVN
ores BION GO0074 WN24 SLON ALMILN tied TouLNOD ABA TWH NO_ANOHS Sy, SOYNIVHG IALISOd SGRYHOL 3407S “4081
WYVNHONGE SLiS @ 989 Bd ONIAVd YO/GNY YOM LY SSONY 3d07S XZ BaKoUd

& OL ® SALONA MA OMLV Tl

HIOHNVA SOY FOYE 0 / L3a4 BivNbS F5z6'v1

Wweayredn UNS BHL JO VEU BAL ALNBdO¥d LOFPENS NO,
Wvadlsdn Ta0ONGY ¥O/ANY NoINaLSNoo ‘NoUMOWaa
| ORKLXG) CIOHSAYHL Od Ly Od (0¥0-£20-8E0 :Nd¥) LSBMHLUON

NGL SHV SNOLLWAZT BOOTS HSINIE €3d0Ud SHL OL SS300¥ (wntva 98 GAWN OL caisnray)

“BATT aNnows (O1S—£20-6E0 :Nd¥) OS Nd .80°S| = NOUWAT

Ay (ONIGIS/OD9NLS) TWRALVN CAHSIN AMGAY CHEZ WY OND

‘QL NMOHS 3uV SINRidLOOd ONTING ' NIL STAN OG At Gat 40 cl:
010-290 MUVMHONE OALVN NYS 40 ALIO

NVId HOVNIVYEC
% ONIGVYD

“STWWIO3O ONY L334
NI-3UV SNOSN@NK ONY SaONVISIC TY AG GNSS! LYOdaY TUM AYVNINTTSSd SHL

SSION 3LON INSWaSva MYVWHONSa

ALNNOD O3LVN NVS

nN
>
Z
=
>
<
ss
S

GHOANAAV WIVd volte
OTT ANNOY LUND AT

6£0 ‘NAV

VINYOATTV9O

£10

ser Q ee earn Se 3 oe coeees : es :
[See : : 3 2 : ee = oe : ‘ollva anya >
ry Rese aes N) : / : : : . — BOS os ON ee = avd unya,

oss

NW

9g0r—L98 (01S)

SbSP6 VINNOJNVO 'GUYMAVH
1S3N ANd ‘TWRUSNONI S6rz

Nojana
ATIASOY

WN

WOO'SZ VME ST MMM

asor_N¥S



--- page 57 ---
SI33HS 0 40 ZO

‘SLINWGd NOUMONGA
GYINOTY LNOHLM ZON3NNOD TIVHS NOWLNONGC ON “NOWLNYLSNOD
(N) ALVGONNODOV OL AUVSSROEN Sv SLNANSAONdM GG) HSMONIG

& on @& salomay NOILITONAC

“Ov-3 NOS

WAAC 33S THO VATS SYNLONULSVYINI NII LOONdTIO (N) TIVLSNI
“O'V—9 LA3HS NO ¥ W130 33S “Widalvn 3sva

BLVSauDOV Z SSYT .9 NO XO8 SOVTd “LUZANI ONIDDLNO 1S3M07 /M
HSI14 NOLLOG SIONS /M NISVE HOLVO:-#Z—A ALSRIHO: (N) TIVASNI

Ov
AGGHS NO ¢ WW130 32S “4JONNY NIVEG WYOLS LIN OL dWMd dNNS (N)
“SNOILDSNNOO 3AM ONY

‘SQN3A .S¢ (Z) 35M GVALSNI GNV SONRA .06 ONISN GIOAY ‘NOWLOSYIC
NI S3ONVHO YOPVN Lv 30VuS OL LNONVSTO 30WOud “CaLON 3SIMEGHLO

4OS) OAd 9 WAMININ 3SN “HGLSAS NIVUG WAOLS ALS=NO (N) “TVASN
& oF &> sO NIVUG WYOLS

ATIOHNVA
WVaadlsdn

NVId ALITTLE

ALNNOD O3LVN NVS

0£,9%.1=a BS fe seen | M,00,08.SSS
0L'St=1-+ v/

n
>
Z
=
>
<)
ts
2

oa
we
x

lon @p)
LO
ro
a4
=a
be
Sa
Somes}
a

i
Q

38 OL NISVE HOLYD G) 3/500

“AVAGARIG THevaNad 2901 SSSA 4 “arzuon
(N) eBGNN FISO WATS (N)

& } e_ Ly FO'L saVde
fd Eh wovava (N)

v6'OV=1
y9'08L=4

VINYOATTV9O

ols:

9g0r—L98 (01S)
XN

SbSP6 VINNOJNVO 'GUYMAVH
1S3N ANd ‘TWRUSNONI S6rz

~ y Qs (3) 40 NOUVOT~ =
ST ““ _ souvanvis Lopiisia

2GUN 7% SOUS UALVM (N
AIOHNVN

00'°8Z = M,00,08.%2N

alk

Nojana
ATIASOY

“SHOWIN WNOWE

Ceca a vey oe.

ve

WOO'SZ VME ST MMM

asor_N¥S

; \92°82Z —-3,00,0E.S¢N
Tr Ie) rainy

TE) VAT
Looudaad OL SNM GS w 3uNLdvd HSval TINd v

HOATAUNS ONY1! SHIANIDNS WALD



--- page 58 ---
SIS3HS 0 40 £0

9669 6 quewereg snowed | ausUO

| AE ROH bE 06 eany snowed} aysUuO

VM 3A NOIS3C as ba: WL GITUON 40 in ” .
mora paplantg Cedpaqabes | 9 Me payer (rs) (via) easy (4's) vary snore, vox er oy pouew Burz1s artuoys0 gq | edkyqueuneasy | uones07 | # wo.
GSLON SV 7WOS Bay uonusieio\g | cary uonumaiojg | ParyuonUaOIG | OO cg ey snojasaduy] aancayy | x (4's) ary snoinieg 2d | (ys) Buraeg snoliag ar i bs e

ATSV1 ANVWIWNS STHNSVSIN TOMLNOD INSWIVI8L

dasod0udd

NOLLWANITG
‘ Vauv LN3NZDYNVN ZOWNIVEC 74
lez/sz/10 | 310A0,
13S “WLLINANS)

(esea199q19N) ane S000 cubs g12- eary pedoiened 1H101 / Sono f KX SWLOL-dS-'S1-
ane ozo DS PLT Gave g snowed ‘e ‘SOVd-: 2. SAVMMTWM.“S,O.Vd: SNOWEE: (N):
(ase8198q WN) ane Le00- YOS O9E'L- snowed;
:V3UV 03d 073A30 JO FONVHD 13N

WLOL S
SoUeld /edeospueT / Xk . 7?
JOY U88ID / dl . | s MS Z1¢ SOve

Supe g snowed ° 22: SAVY 'S,O1LWd:(N

YALVMNYOLS

snowed /

NVId LNANLVAdL

WILOL
i % ; rs Si VV SNOW
ed STBORIT soted Tr, ak oP Sarva Stone
Wi snoyueduuy eae S - by _v ZEEE t VaRV SNOWNACAT
soulping of XS ¥ Sere Syaav-TWWLOL

AWLOL
Seueg | ATEOSPUET
y00y ue8lg,

Suey snowed 3 KN K TT
: :
snowed

ALNNOD O3LVN NVS

WLOL 4S 6Z4't

TWLOL
Sede STEMHEM SONEd
Gupue dq 3 AeManug snowed}

SQVd  SAVATIVM ‘S.OLL¥d SNOWAd (N)

WIOL 45 $8 SOvd
3 SAVMOITVM 'S,OlL¥d SNOWAdAI (N)

35 08%
‘ONKaTING (N)

souping
snoweduuj
s6ugsixg

n
>
Z
=
>
<)
ts
2

oa
we
x

lon @p)
LO
ro
a4
=a
be
Sa
Somes}
a

i
Q

wauy 04d014A30 40 NMOG’Va4ua JS vie

onioing (a)
ane cre 0 = ys s26 PL :VINW LIS 13N . Lo ff fs TD eA AD IED LEA ILP PLL DID ELLAEDIIUIU LLL OP EDLDULELULUILUTEIDODPUAL ILE r SPRL O,08.66S wn |
. LSiaT— < . ; ney er
SNOILVIND TVD V4NV LNAWdO 1330 .98°90S—=4

VINYOATTV9O

woay Peerem| Leaiteg
AS ON BOF]

02 ‘FL JeqopO) anuaty Wied F912] “ON ‘ONESANIONS SZVHa 8 VT
Sivo) 1Brota

OlS-£20-6£0 ‘NAV

9g0r—L98 (01S)
NIV

SbSP6 VINNOJNVO 'GUYMAVH
1S3N ANd ‘TWRUSNONI S6rz

Ob=ub “FIWOS

uy NE Save ® ate ee
Too Sy SAWNOITWI'S OlbWd. (8)

WOO'SZ VME ST MMM

Nojana
ATIASOY

WN
SHOASAHNS GNV1! SHISNIONS TWAID

asor_N¥S

“ON ‘ONIUSSNIOONA SZVua 8 VET “Of
‘M,00,08.4EN

00°82

3.00,08.SSN

4S Z10'rL
SONDRIVd > AVMaARIC (2)



--- page 59 ---
SL3BHS $0 40 10

ERMC ICE oI)
YM 3A@ NOISSG

wares 2
NISV@ HOLVO

03sva.lY
‘ane

ZT ONY (36¥9 WOES GMAIL)
jaVUN\ ‘c1¥9039 (H)

cad¥dW0D ‘aovuoans (@)
(susod anv ‘asve ‘y030) waisis 733 vas @)
NWId ABW

ALMOAVI TIS) VATIS OL 83538
LD310Ud 83d AYVA SNOISNIWIG

# sszus

NIW.9

STIVLAG

sAdAL
ANSINIAWd
Uad S3INVA

ALNNOD O3LVN NYS

nN
>
Z
=
>
3
e

sin (64-3)
-worwaloz Hum sowvincoy savis ollvVd \/

NI %06 GaLOvdNOD ZqveoENs

480d34 “WOINHOALO39 3HL HLA

AANAAV WIVd vote
OTI ANNOY LAND AT

6£0 ‘NAV

VINYOATTV9O

“dAL_— SNM] -30uvHDOSIO

£10

ols:

NW

ggor—cee (01S)

SbSP6 VINNOJNVO 'GUYMAVH
1S3N ANd ‘TWIUSNONI S6rz

QL GALOJNNOD YO YANMO LGTY Ol NOLLYOOT Ni WavIV
TAA] UaLWM HOH STBIONY SAVH TWHS Sdiid Ti

NVHL 43d390 SdiiNd 404 GAZPELN 38 TWHS NGLSAS

WOO'SZ VEE ST MMM

Nogna
ATIAaSON

SHOWA WNOWE

asor_NvS

HOASAUNS ONY! SUTANONS WALD
“ONI ‘ONIUSSNIONA 3ZVYE 8 V3T

‘SHON dAnd



--- page 60 ---
SI33HS SO 40 10

Jajyoid

b-3.L ay} UOTyIpuoos Yorum uo uorjdo

oN L3H IlaqY} ovAey [IM Siasn ‘uado s100p

Be
Ed aseies oY} UJIM possav0e saoeds

WOO'SZ VME ST MMM

ALNNOD O3LVN NVS

VINYOATTV9O

JT LOdS ONINYVd
LIGTHXHd ONINYAL

n
>
Z
=
>
<)
ts
2

oa
we
x

lon @p)
LO
ro
a4
=a
be
Sa
Somes}
a

i
Q

9g0r—L98 (01S)
NIV

SbSP6 VINNOJNVO 'GUYMAVH
1S3N ANd ‘TWRUSNONI S6rz

asor_N¥S
Nojana
ATIASOY

aures oY} SMOYS G-Y] ‘uUMOop

Ioop oseies 34} YIM pessao0e
sooeds 1011d}x9 OM} OY} MOUS 2-V]
pue [-{L syoous ‘umoys saoeds PF
ay} jo Aue SUIAeZ]T IO SUIIO}US UT
asn JI1laq} 10jJ aseres ay} 0} apoo
ssa00e 3a} paptaord aq [[IM yANOod
stuuda} o}yeatid sty} 0} SJIOPISIA [IV

“ALON SSHOOV HOVAVS

NOILdIYOSHd AdAL ANIT a TOIHWA

OV: a|buy Bulueei¢
O'9 = SIL 490] OF 4907)

00°9 : yOo4 |

OO'L : YPIM
yee}

Jabuaesspod o1ysoy

OOlL OOF

Ob=ub “AIWOS

——

oz o s °

“ON ‘ONIUSSNIOONA SZVua 8 VET “Of

SHOASAHNS GNV1! SHISNIONS TWAID

><

a

ONILIXH YVO-LIGIHXA ONINUAL

ONIQALNGA YVO-LIGIAXA ONINYALL

ity

Sy

Hy ff-

T-TIVLS- ONINSVd -OLNT CUvadod: Tid OL ATLHOMIS:
do SMOVE-“- TIVES: SNDIVd: CUVMOL NI SNUAL STOIHEA:

‘NOLLdIGOSAd LIGIBXa ONINYDL



--- page 61 ---
a dayead ONILIXY YVI-LIGIHXY DNINANL
e-3SL fay} UoTIpuoos yorym uo uolMdo , a a
ois} ITY} VAVY [IM SiJasn ‘uado s100p ff J fy /
POPPY =—oSeres oy} YIM passaooe saoeds / ff ff
sory ae aures oy} SMOYS G—W], ‘UMOp
Joop oseres oY} Y}IM possao0e
a sooeds 10110}x9 OM} 94} MOUS 2-TL
js | Seen | pue J—-¥] syooys ‘umoYs saoeds F
ey} jo Aue Sutaes], 10 SUILe}US UT Ee
SSM Jia) IG] avetee Fi} Oy apoo fy Sof HOVOUdAY AVMHARIG AHL OL AVINIGNGdMAd SUKA
ssa00e ay} peptacad oq [[IM y1N09 / : Lo PLT] ) ONY FOVAVD THL AO TANAOO ISVAHLAOS AHL CaVMOL

stuus} o}zeatid sty} 0} SIOZISTA [IV ff / é > ffesy hd Sova Sasuaaaa ‘1 LodS ONIWYVd GUVMOL dUvAOd STInd
. . : se / be HYANYOO- FSVAV): LSVAHIAOS: GUVMOL dl SHOVE: ATOINAA

“ALON SSHOOV ADVAVD J / Si ‘NOLLGIMISHG LIGIHXE ONINIAL

&@ LOdS ONIXUVd
LIGTHXHd ONINYAL

NOILdIYOSAd AdAL ANIT ATOTHWA

OZ: a|buy Buliesis
O'9 + SWIL YOO] 0} 4907]
009 : MODI |, ONIQGLINGA YVO-LIGIHXdY ONINYADL

OO'L UFPIM
fee}

Jobuessod ojyuspy

ALNNOD O3LVN NVS

n
>
Z
=
>
<)
ts
2

oa
we
x

lon @p)
LO
ro
a4
=a
be
Sa
Somes}
a

i
Q

OOl! OOF

6£0 ‘NAV

VINYOATTV9O

£10

ols:

9g0r—L98 (01S)
NIV

SbSP6 VINNOJNVO 'GUYMAVH
1S3N ANd ‘TWRUSNONI S6rz

Ob=ub “AIWOS

——

oz o s °

Nojana
ATIASOY

WN

WOO'SZ VME ST MMM
SHOASAHNS GNV1! SHISNIONS TWAID

asor_N¥S

“ON ‘ONIUSSNIOONA SZVua 8 VET “Of

><



--- page 62 ---
e-3L Jajeid ONILIXH YVO-LIGIHXA ONINGAL
fay} Uortpuods yoym uo uorjdo a a
es! sley} eaey [TM szasn ‘uedo s00p
mw ews] 9SeIVS JY} Y}IM paessao0e saoeds
GaION SY NOS aures oY} SMOYS G-Y] ‘UMOp
| «I00p oseres oy} YIM possao0e
Re] wen [Se0eds 1011a}x9 OM} OY} MOUS g-TL
: -| pue [-¥L s}ooys ‘umoys sooeds PF
7] oy} Jo Aue SuIAeZ, IO Suliejue UT
asn Alay} OJ oseies ay} 0} Vpoo
omnes V1 SSIDIB BY} poptaoid oq [[IM }IN00
stuus} o}yeatid sty} 0} SJOJISIA TIV

ay

HOVOddd¥- AVMAATAE AHL OL AVIASINAdAad : SLIXa
CNV SOVAVS AHL AO aINAOO: LSVAHLAOS FHL: CavMOL
MOVE SUSHTATA “TF LOdS ONITAVd: CUVMOL GUVMAOd STINd
“AMNUOO. “AVMAATAC LSVEHLAOS:: GUVMOL: da SHOVE: TIOTAGA

“ALON SSHOOV AOVAVO

ve ‘NOILGINOSHC LIGIHXS SNINTOL
ee)
ZZ a
QQ
ney Ee
Os < 3
on Soe ———
Sg | rae Sees a S0} atte Guewy
wo NOILdIaOSad AdAL UNIT AIOIHGA Ss it ol Be bg me ee
S ee _e ee a
; dé ey : :
Emme,
5 b> co 3
a : i albuy Bulee anv
i 2o0 Ove : IDUY DULB2E1S ONINGLING UVO-LIGINXA DNINYOAL
SRO O'9 2 SUL 4907] 0} 4907
305 00°9 : 4OO1 —_
oFR OO'L: ULPIM pf, Pos
Sa yoos ff g
Q [o) PA =e HS ee
Eas Jebuessod ojuspy j
,o4 . . y / =
Bacon OO'lL OOS fs Sf ©
{> y &
2 — y sy (8
5 be le ry Hi :
SHE [| SCAT RAR A
asa / ; J) YY SG Md |. ISS — ran
Leer 00°61 {| I. BY ae
= 52 mw / ff / =
6 gs 23 R/S VY / -/ 1 aL (Sn) sig2 oLuswy
Noo om DL=.b SWS | l | ff kM 4 $
0 2586 5 a | - k Ne y ;
g aE = = oz ao s oO f | f 7 ) ‘o. f- & ee |
iB @ f/i/) Pe eer ee

/


--- page 63 ---
SI33HS SO 40 10

p-3L Ady} UWoTyIpuoo Yyotym uo uordo fr, {r iey
se Ila} eAey [[lM SdJasn ‘uedo 100p fp / Se / /
| area aseies 3} YIM possead0e sooeds f/f /
GIONS’ SNS aules 394} SMOYUS G-Y]L ‘UMOp
Ioop oseies oY} YIM possaoo0e
sooeds 10110}X9 OM} 9} MOUS Z—T]
pue J-QL s}yooyus ‘umoys sooeds Ff
aq} jo Aue Sutaesl 10 Sutse}Ue UT
taaano soa asn JI1aYy} IOJ aseres ay} 0} apood
Saws V] ssoo0e 24} poptaoid oq [[IM }IN00 fe ET
sjuuse} oyeatid sty} 0} SALOPISIA ITTV f : £ ' f // “| NOMOW GYVMYOd SHL NI HOVOUddV AVMEAINC/aovevo

Jajeid ONILIXH YVO-LIGIHXA ONINUAL

‘NOJLGIYOSAC LIGINXa ONINUO LE

v LOdS ONIWUVd
LIGTHXHd ONINYAL

NOILdIYOSHd AdAL ANIT WTOIHGA

OZ: a|buy Bulee1s
O'9O + SWI] YOO] OF YOO] |
00'9 : yoo d ONINADL
OO'L : YP IM yo
jee}

Jebuessod ojuspy

ALNNOD O3LVN NVS

n
>
Z
=
>
<)
ts
2

oa
we
x

lon @p)
LO
ro
a4
=a
be
Sa
Somes}
a

i
Q

OO'll OOF

6£0 ‘NAV

VINYOATTV9O

£10

ols:

“SOEIO NIVA

9g0r—L98 (01S)
SHOATAHNS ONV1! SHISNIONS WAID

SbSP6 VINNOJNVO 'GUYMAVH
1S3N ANd ‘TWRUSNONI S6rz

Ob=ub “AIWOS

WOO'SZ VME ST MMM

Nojana
ATIASOY

asor_N¥S
WN

“ON ‘ONIUSSNIOONA SZVua 8 VET “Of

/



--- page 64 ---
SI33HS SO 40 SO

aq} UoTyIpuoo Yyorym uo uoTydo s// * IN] ff

pa | Ilay} aaAey []IM Sdosn ‘uado s00p

,_* sansa] osered oY} YIM possao0e sooeds

[ONY EN aues oy} SMOUS G—q], ‘UMOp

Joop oseies oq} Y}IM possao0e

sooeds 10119}xX9 OM} 9Y} MOUS 2—TL
pue J-{L s}yeous ‘umoys sooeds fF
ey} jo Aue Sutaes] 10 SuUILe}Ue UT
asn Aley} IOJ oseresd ay} 0} apoo
ssoa00e 904} peplaoid oq [[IM }AN0d0 |
sIuUd} o}eATId SIY} 0} SAIOPISIA [IV

‘ALON SSHOOV HOVAVO

HAILVNYALTV
G
% ONIOVILS
LIGTHXH ONINYAL

NOILdIaOSAd AdAL ANIT WIOIHAA

dOd LIGIHXd OINIOVIS

ALNNOD O3LVN NVS

OZ: a|buy Bulueeis
O09: SWIL YOO] 0} 4907

00°9 : 4OD4 |

OO'L : UPIM
pee}

jJabuessod ol1ysoy

n
>
Z
=
>
<)
ts
2

oa
we
x

lon @p)
LO
ro
a4
=a
be
Sa
Somes}
a

i
Q

6£0 ‘NAV

VINYOATTV9O

OO'LL 00'S

o1s-£20;

NW

9g0r—L98 (01S)

SbSP6 VINNOJNVO 'GUYMAVH
1S3N ANd ‘TWRUSNONI S6rz

Ob=ub “AIWOS

——

oz o s °

WOO'SZ VME ST MMM

Nojana
ATIASOY

WN
SHOASAHNS GNV1! SHISNIONS TWAID

asor_N¥S

“ON ‘ONIUSSNIOONA SZVua 8 VET “Of

><



--- page 65 ---
Sw (9) SIN (a)

Sa9vWi aunixid 2) AINGAHOS ONILHOM YOWALX]S /
7 SIN (29) SIN 4 9) a
( ame soo bepae o0dr Uesreynueyy aL Hsnrmrseece:=rms] —_INVISIS34 TWaNYA~30NO9S
LO dl er ey alt anv vid 7 ‘even oe wets an Bum Kain Aon nous s] aLuznoet |va] set |-2OmeS | iacepreiysqatenun| MPS ‘eueuwm FeAGS1- vos] —GSTGAINNOWOVuns Twa) 7
seal UZ7024 fos] ost psu s¥ ost sauyeves|
sana 6
10 Bavonsorias uns 0} nope 0} 909 oBayoK 0 oqDD a 40} MoHe 1-D0EIL09 | (oneunrc)
“Sour susmey fe uny pypeoun pul weap gr svorouues ayverrpea'e| YN |va| wn | ormuéeri ane erent _ sets cei-¥o1=s] iNIodONOW G31 GRINNON Svs] Z1
‘vopsoo orgs ul peiba onc JOANG JOA eau seznbal arog 2 sone, | Semeniowua mem taem
yen sm o> Bon Amo peacoat] PT Ne
(Gas UN OSIM BUREN a]
‘ (ereunc) = cast an]
‘iste i pi 8 § 0dr (amnaemuen| exon fau3 onsoreoinzaua.ereon| STONY Waa 30IM- IHOMNMO
LNOAVT ONILHONM Fa Le ED PRN Ses SUS nach wa) $Zb | ote | 1Peprald) sa @RuM| spe ws 'Se-ONN Bus7OH| aziaass3oa4 onmizo| ©!
YOIMSLXa seu0s Gua ana]
~ 9 peu AHS orang) carstrinan|
Semmenenspinnnte age Buon es ames eer ee a aarp |u| ew! | “mons 000% bamsenuen| Adve o-storezi-nedua rpon] SNS GYSHES VENT“ LHONMOG) 4
‘gn cj 0ou3 pu R09 doo eve Pa 94 ONEIAHOG eee | fapoevord) saree! 013 48H ‘Seon uo {037 03883038 ONI139|
S995 040-9]
S9/0N stan | Fo | pen wey uonesc7 sequinn Bojee9 / seumpeUEW uonduoseg ooh
Tom Sey SCoPE TRAN OB. AV XX panel oo Om Sin) Pauw Soaps RORRA puSWepWed GB ow aublay Buuren aie §
‘80 29} sue“) 1p SoysL "uoRED NC Hoke du sun paarba je sp ‘uoRDnsoD pe Seep fe Bue ANE} NBL 8 fa pasa 20} Sule “uno oo eraxtte 0 sas eeu SrONUD 1) Pepa og Be Hump dS
yop op wares sanuoo EA Yt yMENLOD JAE wyo0 BALD E
uogens eaun> 20} suouodino pue sapossance kss9204 Je 9p 0} 98RD Z
fq uwpig “penny Aa pos} oo So¥eR amo
oi=ai ne \

LNOAVT ONILHONM YOIMALXA

+00 0:2 GNV 13A31 GNNOYO Lv GSYNSV3W (94) SONWNINNTI YOd SLNIOd NOILWIND V9.

ondusssg fq syd. #3)

/ Naat agin

Aasot

unos
SINNEL AVI:

id

ON

AHONINMOG aass3034

ONITISO- F13dAL 9“
Jaouvd

ve anagwrav (ae ve re re vee

WOD'S18/WI}EMS"MMM
91L0 $86 OLS *xe4

6116 $86 OLS FOL

809%6 WO ‘enAKiewa

vOL euNg “wens e}fog syAs

SLOALIHDEV



--- page 66 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Photo simulation 1
02/10/23

--- page 67 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Photo simulation 2
02/10/23

--- page 68 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Photo simulation 3
02/10/23

--- page 69 ---
fA

AL 7
fs}
LN

zazeee

02/10/23

”n
=
2
>
'
co)
=}
=
o
>
<x
A=
Oo
oO
st
i<e)
rr
~N
'
co)
D
>
3
a
=
>
3
oO
@
_



--- page 70 ---
02/10/23

7)
=
2
>
'
@
5
=
o
>
<x
=
o
a
st
re)
rr
N
'
@
D
5
3
a
=
5
fe)
oO
@
_



--- page 71 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Views 02/10/23



--- page 72 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Views 02/10/23


--- page 73 ---
02/10/23

”n
=
2
>
'
co)
=}
c
o
>
<x
A=
Oo
oO
st
i<e)
rr
~N
'
co)
D
>
3
a
=
>
3
oO
@
_

sialgdsts
Dybatal H



--- page 74 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Views 02/10/23


--- page 75 ---
eee

Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Views 02/10/23


--- page 76 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Views 02/10/23



--- page 77 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Views 02/10/23


--- page 78 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Views 02/10/23


--- page 79 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Views 02/10/23


--- page 80 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Views 02/10/23


--- page 81 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Views 02/10/23


--- page 82 ---
1 | P a g e
To:
 Laura Richstone, City of San Mateo
AECOM
4 N Second St, Suite 675
San Jose, CA 95113, USA
aecom.com
From:
Swathi Korpu
Nichole Seow
Date:
September 9, 2022
Memorandum
Subject: Parking Evaluation for 2164 Palm Avenue
Background
The City of San Mateo received an application to redevelop an existing vacant parcel of 14,990
square feet to a private indoor tennis facility at 2164 Palm Avenue of City of San Mateo.  The
proposal consists of a two-story building.  The first floor includes a single regulation tennis court,
warm-up/stretching area, restroom and storage shed.  The second floor consists of a clubhouse,
restroom, storage and mechanical areas.  The proposal also includes three on-site parking
spaces. Figures 1a-1c show the proposed first, second floor and parking layouts respectively.
The floor area of the proposed different uses is tabulated in Table 1.
Table 1 – Area for Different Uses
Use
Area (sf)
Tennis Court
9,152
Turf*
1,097
Warm up Area*
1,718
Lobby/stairs/corridors
836
restroom
146
storage
541
Mechanical Room
256
Post tennis activity area 
927
Total
14,673
Note: The City considers the ‘Turf’ and ‘Warm-up Area’ as part of the Tennis Court usage and
will not separately evaluate the effects of these areas.
FINAL

--- page 83 ---
TURF (5'-4" X 126-0") Ww

APage

+£70'-8%,"
TENNIS STRUCTURE

> 0
3
ao

Ag
S

78-0" TENNIS COURT

| a |

Figure 1a — First Floor Plan

2|Page


--- page 84 ---
£70'-B%,"
TENNIS STRUCTURE

> 0
=
fo]

A Page 8 AT 3.

T
(E) ADJACENT BULLONG

+24'-%,"
£0.B

78'-0" TENNIS COURT
£126'-1'%." TENNIS STRUCTURE

-

A Page’ A1Page 8

240%"
£Q.B

Figure 1b — Second Floor Plan

3|Page


--- page 85 ---
PL
ars
— ©

FLY
|

E
’

a
tak:
TZ

Figure 1c — Parking Layout

4|Page


--- page 86 ---
5 | P a g e
Purpose
The City of San Mateo wishes to determine if the size of various proposed use of the development
(tennis court, club house, turf area, etc.) is appropriate and can be accommodated based on the
number of proposed parking.
AECOM has been tasked to perform the evaluation and was provided with Plan Set PA21-062 for
reference.  This memorandum thus documents the evaluation process that determines the
recommended maximum occupancy for this proposed development.
Evaluation
The intent of this evaluation is to determine the appropriate level of occupancy based on the
proposed number of parking spaces provided.  A full-fledged traffic impact analysis (TIA) and a
vehicle-miles travelled (VMT) analysis are not warranted for this proposed development based on
the following considerations:
1. The applicant has informed that the tennis court could expect up to four persons using it
on a weekend (peak).  Conservatively, the 4 persons could generate up to 16 trips1 in the
day, assuming one person per vehicle.  In addition, there could be one maintenance
person on site who could reasonably generate up to 10 trips2 in a day.  The total estimated
daily trips are 26, significantly lower than the threshold of 110 daily trips defined by the
City’s TIA guidelines3 and can be considered a small project that is screened out of the
CEQA VMT analysis process.
2. Based on vehicle trip rates published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE,
10th Edition) for Land Use 491 for Tennis Courts, a one-court facility could generate 30.56
(or 31) trips per day.  This again, is significantly lower than the 110 trips threshold and can
be considered as a small project and it is therefore screened out for CEQA VMT analysis.
3. The location of this project falls within the High-Quality Transit Area (HQTA) defined by
the City for Hayward Park and Hillsdale Caltrain Stations.  As such, it is screened out from
CEQA VMT analysis as well.
4. According to the City’s General Plan Policy C2.5, a local traffic study would be required if
the proposed development has a substantial impact on the local street system.  With a
very conservative daily trips of up to 31 trips, the local street system would not be
substantially impacted by this project.
The determination of the allowable occupancy and usage for the proposed tennis facility
considered several aspects.  Firstly, using ITE Parking Generation Rate 4th Edition, the required
number of parking spaces for a one-court tennis facility (ITE Land Use 491 Racquet/Tennis Club)
is 3.56 or 4 spaces.  However, the project is only proposing to provide 3 parking spaces.  Based
on this, the parking for this development is inadequate.
Next, looking at the City’s parking requirement under the Zoning Code Chapter 27.64.1604, a one-
court (private) tennis facility would require three parking stalls plus additional stalls determined
for the separate land use.  The facility consists of a 927-square foot ‘post tennis activity area’
which would require 14 parking spaces based on the City’s parking requirement (for private clubs,
1 Number of trips estimated based on assumptions that 4 persons in and out each (total of 8 trips) +  4 persons each departed  for a
meal and back (total of 8 trips) = 16 trips in total
2 Number of trips estimated based on assumptions that 1 maintenance person in and out (total of 2 trips) + 4 more trips in and out,
(totaling to 8 trips, to run errands such as purchasing materials for maintenance work) = 10 trips in total
3 https://sanmateo.primegov.com/meeting/attachment/3169.pdf?name=Att%201%20-
%20Draft%20Transportation%20Impact%20Analysis%20(TIA)%20Guidelines
4 https://sanmateo.ca.us.open.law/us/ca/cities/san-mateo/code/27.64.160
FINAL

--- page 87 ---
6 | P a g e
lodges halls and union HQ) as it is considered as ‘additional uses on the site’.  The turf and warm
up areas are considered as part of the tennis court usage and would not require the provision of
additional parking spots.  The total required number of parking stalls would be 17.  As such, the
proposed parking on-site does not meet the City’s requirement.
Thirdly, using Table 1004.5 of the California Building Code 2019 that defines the ‘maximum floor
area allowances per occupant’ for different uses, the proposed 927 square feet of ‘post tennis
activity area’ could accommodate up to 18 persons5 (927 sf / 50 sf = 18 pax).  To determine the
number of parking spots needed for the allowable number of occupants by the building code,
AECOM looked into the US Department of Energy’s Transportation Energy Data Book Edition 406
(June 2022) to obtain the average vehicle occupancy rate (AVO).  The AVO for car (by vehicle
type) is 1.54 person/car.  Therefore, to accommodate the 18 persons allowable by the area of the
facility, 12 parking spaces (18 ÷ 1.54 =11.6) would be needed.  The current proposed number of
parking spaces also does not meet this requirement.
The table below presents a summary of the required parking spaces based on the different
guidelines.
Guideline
Requirement
Evaluation
Comments
1
ITE
4
Does not meet 
Limit use of facility
based on number
of parking spots
provided
2
City of San Mateo
17
Does not meet
3
Average Vehicle Occupancy (for the 18
persons allowable by building code)
12
Does not meet
As a result of the above evaluation, it is clear that that the number of proposed on-site parking
spaces is a constraint to the proposed use of the parcel.  However, given the lot size and the
intended use of the parcel, it would not be feasible to provide the required number of spaces
required by the City (17 spots) or to accommodate the building’s allowable occupancy number
(12 spots).  Referencing the ITE parking generation rate presented above, only 4 spaces would
be required for a similar facility.  While the City may consider requiring the applicant to provide
one additional parking space to meet the ITE requirement, another way to reduce the risk of
parking spillage is to limit the use of the facility based on the number of people on site, which has
a direct relationship with the number of vehicles needing parking spaces.
In order to proceed with this project positively, the City may limit the number of tennis
players/visitors to the facility based on the currently proposed three parking spots.  Using the AVO
of 1.54 person/car, the maximum allowable occupancy would be 3 x 1.54 = 4.62 or just 4 persons7
for the three (car) parking spaces planned for the facility.  The City may further consider restricting
the use of the ‘post tennis area’, by limiting it to what its name suggests, whereby only the tennis
players get to use it and not as a separate recreation and social event area (deemed as ‘additional
uses’) that would require additional parking spaces.
Conclusion
Based on City’s parking requirement, the project’s proposal of three parking spaces does not
meet the required 17 number of spaces.  Based on floor area of the facility, even though the
proposed facility can physically accommodate up to 18 people according to the California Building
Code 2019, the number of parking spaces provided by the project is inadequate to accommodate
5 https://codes.iccsafe.org/s/CACLABC2020P1/chapter-10-means-of-egress/CACLABC2020P1-Ch10-Sec1004.5 (see Exercise
Room / Locker Room)
6 https://tedb.ornl.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/TEDB_Ed_40.pdf#page=244
7 Occupancy rounds down in order not to exceed the number of parking spaces provided; rounding up to 5 persons would require >
3 parking spaces (5 ÷ 1.54 = 3.2 spaces, or 4 spaces).
FINAL

--- page 88 ---
7 | P a g e
this number of visitors which would require an estimated number of 12 parking spots.  The
proposed number of parking spaces is one spot less than that recommendation by ITE for a
Racquet/Tennis Club type of land use (4 spots required).
The evaluation hence concluded that the number of parking spaces is a constraint to the project.
As such, in order to ensure that visitors to the development does not cause a parking spillover
based on the currently proposed three spots, the allowable number of persons at the development
would need to be limited.  Using an AVO for car at 1.54 person/car, the maximum number of
persons allowable at the facility can only be 4 at all times (4 ÷1.54 = 2.6 or 3 parking spots),
visitors and maintenance personnel included.  Furthermore, as discussed, using the ‘post tennis
activity area’ as a separate recreational and social event venue for more than four occupants
should not be allowed.
FINAL

--- page 89 ---
Planning Commission Special Meeting Minutes – 3/22/22 
1 
 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
Margaret Williams, Vice Chair 
John Ebneter 
Adam Nugent 
Seema Patel 
vacant 
 
City of San Mateo 
Special Meeting Minutes 
Planning Commission 
 
Tuesday, March 22, 2022 
Remote 6:00 PM 
Special Meeting 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
 
CALL TO ORDER  
This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Bill AB361; in which Brown Act  
regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency. 
 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
ROLL CALL 
Remote:  
Vice Chair Margaret Williams, Commissioners John Ebneter, Adam Nugent, and Seema Patel 
Absent:  
None 
 
 
STUDY SESSION 
1. Pre-Application Review for a Proposed Two-Story Private Indoor Tennis Court at 2164 Palm Ave. (PA-2021-062) 
Associate Planner, Laura Richstone presented an overview of the project, architecture, and background. She also 
requested feedback on proposed use and design of the structure. 
 
Commissioner Questions:  
Commissioners asked staff questions on the potential commercial or private use of the facility. 
 
Public Comments:  
Drew commented on the proposed sidewalk configuration, potential loss of parking spaces and made suggestions on 
the site plan. 
 
 
Property Owner Nicolas Courtot presented an overview of the background for the project and discussed parking 
concerns. Architect George Miers explained site constraints and site design, as well as openness to nonprofit usage. 
 
Commissioners commented on the following items: 
Commissioners commented on the need to maintain the vision for both the Pedestrian and Bicycle Master Plans and 
offered suggestions for parking on the project site. All Commissioners expressed support for the project. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
The meeting adjourned at 7:11pm. 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 3AA3B657-0667-415A-9175-C5ACA2DD62E6

--- page 90 ---
Planning Commission Special Meeting Minutes – 3/22/22 
2 
 
 
 
APPROVED BY: 
 
 
 
___________________________________ 
Margaret Williams, Vice Chair 
 
 
 
SUBMITTED BY: 
 
 
 
___________________________________ 
Mary Way, Administrative Assistant 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 3AA3B657-0667-415A-9175-C5ACA2DD62E6

--- page 91 ---
Certificate Of Completion
Envelope Id: 3AA3B6570667415A9175C5ACA2DD62E6
Status: Completed
Subject: Please DocuSign: Planning Commission Special Meeting Minutes 3.22.2022.docx
Source Envelope: 
Document Pages: 2
Signatures: 2
Envelope Originator: 
Certificate Pages: 5
Initials: 0
Ashley Snodgrass
AutoNav: Enabled
EnvelopeId Stamping: Enabled
Time Zone: (UTC-08:00) Pacific Time (US & Canada)
330 W. 20th Avenue
City Clerk's Office
San Mateo, CA  94403
asnodgrass@cityofsanmateo.org
IP Address: 73.202.5.93    
Record Tracking
Status: Original
             6/19/2023 2:32:04 PM
Holder: Ashley Snodgrass
             asnodgrass@cityofsanmateo.org
Location: DocuSign
Signer Events
Signature
Timestamp
Mary Way
mway@cityofsanmateo.org
Administrative Assistant
City of San Mateo
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Signature Adoption: Drawn on Device
Using IP Address: 76.14.0.98
Sent: 6/19/2023 2:35:37 PM
Viewed: 6/19/2023 2:58:16 PM 
Signed: 6/19/2023 2:58:23 PM
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Not Offered via DocuSign
Margaret Williams
mwilliams@cityofsanmateo.org
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Signature Adoption: Pre-selected Style
Using IP Address: 76.14.11.149
Sent: 6/19/2023 2:58:24 PM
Viewed: 7/6/2023 10:56:30 PM 
Signed: 7/6/2023 10:56:52 PM
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Accepted: 7/6/2023 10:56:30 PM
      ID: 3c82bc4b-e2df-4538-9c3c-52049ff798bd
In Person Signer Events
Signature
Timestamp
Editor Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Agent Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Intermediary Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Certified Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Carbon Copy Events
Status
Timestamp
Witness Events
Signature
Timestamp
Notary Events
Signature
Timestamp
Envelope Summary Events
Status
Timestamps
Envelope Sent
Hashed/Encrypted
6/19/2023 2:35:37 PM
Certified Delivered
Security Checked
7/6/2023 10:56:30 PM

--- page 92 ---
Envelope Summary Events
Status
Timestamps
Signing Complete
Security Checked
7/6/2023 10:56:52 PM
Completed
Security Checked
7/6/2023 10:56:52 PM
Payment Events
Status
Timestamps
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure

--- page 93 ---
CONSUMER DISCLOSURE
From time to time, Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo (we, us or Company) may be required by
law to provide to you certain written notices or disclosures. Described below are the terms and
conditions for providing to you such notices and disclosures electronically through the
DocuSign, Inc. (DocuSign) electronic signing system. Please read the information below
carefully and thoroughly, and if you can access this information electronically to your
satisfaction and agree to these terms and conditions, please confirm your agreement by clicking
the ‘I agree’ button at the bottom of this document. 
Getting paper copies
At any time, you may request from us a paper copy of any record provided or made available
electronically to you by us. You will have the ability to download and print documents we send
to you through the DocuSign system during and immediately after signing session and, if you
elect to create a DocuSign signer account, you may access them for a limited period of time
(usually 30 days) after such documents are first sent to you. After such time, if you wish for us to
send you paper copies of any such documents from our office to you, you will be charged a
$0.00 per-page fee. You may request delivery of such paper copies from us by following the
procedure described below. 
Withdrawing your consent 
If you decide to receive notices and disclosures from us electronically, you may at any time
change your mind and tell us that thereafter you want to receive required notices and disclosures
only in paper format. How you must inform us of your decision to receive future notices and
disclosure in paper format and withdraw your consent to receive notices and disclosures
electronically is described below. 
Consequences of changing your mind
If you elect to receive required notices and disclosures only in paper format, it will slow the
speed at which we can complete certain steps in transactions with you and delivering services to
you because we will need first to send the required notices or disclosures to you in paper format,
and then wait until we receive back from you your acknowledgment of your receipt of such
paper notices or disclosures. To indicate to us that you are changing your mind, you must
withdraw your consent using the DocuSign ‘Withdraw Consent’ form on the signing page of a
DocuSign envelope instead of signing it. This will indicate to us that you have withdrawn your
consent to receive required notices and disclosures electronically from us and you will no longer
be able to use the DocuSign system to receive required notices and consents electronically from
us or to sign electronically documents from us. 
All notices and disclosures will be sent to you electronically
Unless you tell us otherwise in accordance with the procedures described herein, we will provide
electronically to you through the DocuSign system all required notices, disclosures,
authorizations, acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be provided or
made available to you during the course of our relationship with you. To reduce the chance of
you inadvertently not receiving any notice or disclosure, we prefer to provide all of the required
notices and disclosures to you by the same method and to the same address that you have given
us. Thus, you can receive all the disclosures and notices electronically or in paper format through
the paper mail delivery system. If you do not agree with this process, please let us know as
described below. Please also see the paragraph immediately above that describes the
consequences of your electing not to receive delivery of the notices and disclosures
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure created on: 6/13/2017 8:08:23 AM
Parties agreed to: Margaret Williams

--- page 94 ---
electronically from us. 
How to contact Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo:
You may contact us to let us know of your changes as to how we may contact you electronically,
to request paper copies of certain information from us, and to withdraw your prior consent to
receive notices and disclosures electronically as follows:
 To contact us by email send messages to: cravi@cityofsanmateo.org
To advise Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo of your new e-mail address 
To let us know of a change in your e-mail address where we should send notices and disclosures
electronically to you, you must send an email message to us at cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in
the body of such request you must state: your previous e-mail address, your new e-mail address.  
We do not require any other information from you to change your email address..  
In addition, you must notify DocuSign, Inc. to arrange for your new email address to be reflected
in your DocuSign account by following the process for changing e-mail in the DocuSign system. 
To request paper copies from Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo
To request delivery from us of paper copies of the notices and disclosures previously provided
by us to you electronically, you must send us an e-mail to cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in the
body of such request you must state your e-mail address, full name, US Postal address, and
telephone number. We will bill you for any fees at that time, if any.
To withdraw your consent with Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo
To inform us that you no longer want to receive future notices and disclosures in electronic
format you may:
i. decline to sign a document from within your DocuSign session, and on the subsequent
page, select the check-box indicating you wish to withdraw your consent, or you may;
ii. send us an e-mail to cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in the body of such request you
must state your e-mail, full name, US Postal Address, and telephone number. We do not
need any other information from you to withdraw consent..  The consequences of your
withdrawing consent for online documents will be that transactions may take a longer time
to process.. 
Required hardware and software
Operating Systems: 
Windows® 2000, Windows® XP, Windows
Vista®; Mac OS® X 
Browsers: 
Final release versions of Internet Explorer® 6.0
or above (Windows only); Mozilla Firefox 2.0
or above (Windows and Mac); Safari™ 3.0 or
above (Mac only) 
PDF Reader: 
Acrobat® or similar software may be required
to view and print PDF files 
Screen Resolution: 
800 x 600 minimum 
Enabled Security Settings: 
Allow per session cookies
 
** These minimum requirements are subject to change. If these requirements change, you will be
asked to re-accept the disclosure. Pre-release (e.g. beta) versions of operating systems and
browsers are not supported. 
Acknowledging your access and consent to receive materials electronically

--- page 95 ---
To confirm to us that you can access this information electronically, which will be similar to
other electronic notices and disclosures that we will provide to you, please verify that you were
able to read this electronic disclosure and that you also were able to print on paper or
electronically save this page for your future reference and access or that you were able to e-mail
this disclosure and consent to an address where you will be able to print on paper or save it for
your future reference and access. Further, if you consent to receiving notices and disclosures
exclusively in electronic format on the terms and conditions described above, please let us know
by clicking the ‘I agree’ button below. 
By checking the ‘I agree’ box, I confirm that: 
•
I can access and read this Electronic CONSENT TO ELECTRONIC RECEIPT OF
ELECTRONIC CONSUMER DISCLOSURES document; and
 
•
I can print on paper the disclosure or save or send the disclosure to a place where I can
print it, for future reference and access; and
 
•
Until or unless I notify Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo as described above, I consent to
receive from exclusively through electronic means all notices, disclosures, authorizations,
acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be provided or made
available to me by  Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo during the course of my
relationship with you.

--- page 96 ---
2164 Palm Avenue 
Indoor Private Tennis Court
(PA-2022-088)
Planning Commission Public Hearing 
June 13, 2023
Laura Richstone, Associate Planner
 Community Development 
1

--- page 97 ---
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
Location
Project Description
Entitlements 
Project History
2
• Site Address: 2164 Palm Avenue 
• 1 parcel / 0.34 acres
• Existing: Open parking lot with 700 sq. ft. 
outbuilding 
• Service Commercial District (C4-1)
C4-1
C4-1
C3-1/R4

--- page 98 ---
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
Location
Project Description
Entitlements 
Project History
3
• New private indoor tennis court
• 2 stories 
• Ground floor: 12,862 sq. ft.
• 2nd floor: 1,690 sq. ft. 
• Total FAR: 14,553 square-feet 
• 4 parking spaces

--- page 99 ---
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
Location
Project Description
Entitlements 
Project History
4
• Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR)
• New indoor tennis court structure and 
associated site improvements
• Special Use Permit (SUP)
• To allow a private recreational use in the 
Service Commercial District (C4-1)
• Findings: 
• The use is so similar to a specifically 
allowed use as to be virtually identical 
in terms of impacts and land use 
requirements 
• The proposed use will not have an 
adverse impact on the welfare, health 
or safety of the surrounding 
community.

--- page 100 ---
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
Location
Project Description
Entitlements 
Project History
5
• Pre-Application
• Neighborhood Meeting – February 28, 2022
• PC Study Session – March 22, 2022
• Parking Study completed – September 9, 
2022
• Formal Planning Application 
• Filed – November 11, 2022
• Revised Design – February 2023

--- page 101 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
General Plan and Zoning Code
Local Plans
State Laws 
Design Review 
Environmental Review 
6
• General Plan Land Use – Service Commercial
•  Zoning District – Service Commercial (C4-1)
Proposed 
Maximum Allowed
Floor Area Ratio 
14,553 sq. ft. (0.98)
14,925 sq. ft. (1.0)
Building Height 
28 ft. 5 in. 
30 ft. (plate)
Setbacks 
0 ft. – 37 ft. 8 in. front
0 ft. all other setbacks 
0’ (min for all setbacks)
Proposed 
Minimum Required 
Short-Term Bicycle 
Parking 
1
1
Vehicle Parking
4
17*
*AB 2097 affects parking requirements within ½ mi of public transit

--- page 102 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
General Plan and Zoning Code
Local Plans
State Laws 
Design Review 
Environmental Review 
7
• Pedestrian Master Plan 
• Existing 5 ft. 
sidewalks with 3-5 
foot buffer zones
• Proposed overall 
sidewalk width of 
11 ft. (less than 14 
ft. recommended 
min)
• Bicycle Master Plan 
• Future separate 
bicycle lane (Class II)

--- page 103 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
General Plan and Zoning Code
Local Plans
State Laws 
Design Review 
Environmental Review 
8
• Parking Generation:
• 17 spaces for commercial recreation and 
clubhouse space
• Site Specific Parking Study (2022): 3-4 spaces
• Assembly Bill (AB) 2097
• Effective January 2023
• Removes parking requirements for projects 
within one-half mile from major public 
transit 
• Current Proposal 
• 4 spaces

--- page 104 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
General Plan and Zoning Code
Local Plans
State Laws 
Design Review 
Environmental Review 
9
• Site Plan 
• Floor Plans
• Elevations 
• Colors Materials

--- page 105 ---
SITE PLAN / 1ST FLOOR PLAN  
10
Tennis Court
Garage
Warm Up 
Area
Lobby, Bathroom, Storage Area

--- page 106 ---
2ND FLOOR PLAN
11
Clubhouse, storage, 
restroom, closet

--- page 107 ---
wo» GABLE ==

1)
SYSTEM.

AT CLEAR
SLOING
6/FLEVS

Fabric Roof Assembly

¥

7? 2a LL
64/5
a" r" me

ELEVATIONS - FRONT

ELEV. +54.37"
1.0. TENNIS
STRUCTURE
MECH. INTAKE
FAN BEYOND

*
|

*
ALUMINUM WINDOW

DOOR HEIGHT

oo eer ae

a a rr

70-0” WINDOW &)

w

ra

IGHT

OR

14°10" WINDOW

PARKING
AREA

SYSTEM, PID, (BLACK)

ri ELEV. +40.04'
1.0. STRUCTURAL

ROOF DECK

r CONC. CANOPY

LReD BRICK VENEER @
EAST ELEVATION

ELEV. +28.04'
2ND FLOOR
. FLR,

—+SECTIONAL GARAGE
\ DOOR, PID (BLACK)

HOLLOW METAL DOOR PANIED
T0 WATCH WETAL PANELS

ELEV, +12.04"

——— CITY OF SAN MATEO ————

GROUND FLOOR
FIN. FLR.

9



--- page 108 ---
ELEVATIONS - RIGHT

ee ee
a a

iS =0P0 2 ML LL BT
RETA, BOUL-1P (60. HOLL FEES
CPI ET face =O Ta

——— CITY OF SAN MATEO ————



--- page 109 ---
ELEVATIONS — LEFT

a

a

SSS SS
pt tT | ft tT | Pte

cco

CITY OF ———


--- page 110 ---
ELEVATIONS - REAR

ELEV. +54.37'
Fro. TENNIS
STRUCTURE
A,
WECH, EXHAUST) =
LOUVERS, PID.
(BLACK), TP.
{ ELEV. +40.04°
1.0. STRUCTUR,
ROOF DECK
°

ELEV. +28.04"
2ND FLOOR

FIN. FLR.
3
AD
WP. 5
©
¥
(N) 6 TAL
METAL FENCE
ELEW. +12.04°
GROUND FLOOF
FIN. FLR.


--- page 111 ---
PROJECT SPECIFIC CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
16
1. Flood Hazard Area
2. Change of Use TIA 
3. Public Art and Landscaping
•
Avoid public utility conflicts
•
Ensure visibility of public art

--- page 112 ---
CONDITION OF APPROVAL # 8 (REVISED)
17
FLOOD HAZARD AREA – The project site is located within an area designated as Special 
Flood Hazard Area as identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). 
New buildings, additions, and/or alteration projects valued at 50% or more of the market 
value of the existing structure shall demonstrate compliance with Floodplain Management 
Ordinance in San Mateo Municipal Code Section 23.33 and California Building Code Section 
1612. The Minimum elevation of the lowest floor shall be Base Flood Elevation (BFE) +1-
foot according to ASCE 24-14 as referenced in CBC Section 1612.2. Areas below lowest floor 
shall comply with SMMC 23.33.020 (ll) (1). Any site plan, building, or drainage changes 
caused by raising the lowest floor elevation to BFE + 1-foot per CBC 1612.2, providing flood 
openings per SMMC 23.22, or requests for alternative design compliance per SMMC
23.33.060 shall be reviewed by the respective City departments and approved to the 
discretion of the Community Development Director and Floodplain Administrator or their 
designee. (BUILDING, PUBLIC WORKS, PLANNING).

--- page 113 ---
CONDITION OF APPROVAL # 26 (REVISED)
18
The applicant shall provide a notarized agreement with the owner(s) of the adjacent 
building at 2180 Palm Ave for joint maintenance and a detail for roof flashing between the 
buildings. The agreement will be required prior to building permit issuance. Alternatively, 
the applicant shall design the building to provide alternative flashing/waterproofing that 
does not extend across a boundary line to attach to a neighboring structure. Alternative 
flashing options shall be approved to the discretion of the Building Official or his/her 
designee. (BUILDING)

--- page 114 ---
ADDITIONAL CONDITION OF APPROVAL
19
This project is approved for a private recreational tennis court facility for personal use 
only. Any change of operation to a commercial, non-profit, or community serving use 
or change of use will require City approval at the discretion of the Community 
Development Director or their designee.

--- page 115 ---
RECOMMENDATION 
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) for a new two-
story, 14,553 square-foot private indoor tennis court facility; a Special Use Permit (SUP) to 
allow a recreational use in the Service Commercial (C4-1) District based on the Findings and 
modified Conditions of Approval; and a Categorical Exemption from environmental review 
pursuant to Section 15332 of the California Environmental Quality Act. 
20

--- page 116 ---
Thank You
Laura Richstone
Associate Planner, Community Development 
LRichstone@cityofsanmateo.org 
650-522-7205
21

--- page 117 ---
2164 Palm Avenue 
Indoor Private Tennis Court
(PA-2022-088)
Planning Commission Public Hearing 
June 13, 2023
Laura Richstone, Associate Planner
 Community Development 
22

--- page 118 ---
eeieneasanareas
| |_|

STRUCTURE
COMBUSTIBLE
GABLE

CITY OF



--- page 119 ---
Le Court Rouge
2164 Palm Ave, San Mateo CA
Swatt | Miers Architects
6/13/23

--- page 120 ---
MY INSPIRATION
Born in Paris, France
Passion for tennis
Roland Garros – arguably, the most
prestigious tournament
Magestic stadium
Unique clay surface

--- page 121 ---
SPECIAL USE REQUEST
A private tennis court is identical to
a commercial tennis court
There used to be an indoor tennis
facility just across Palm Ave.
This building will beautify the
neighborhood
The tennis court takes up 70%
of the parcel

--- page 122 ---
SITE
0
50
100
Le Court Rouge - Site Plan
2164 Palm Ave, San Mateo CA
scale: 1:100
Swatt | Miers Architects
6/13/23

--- page 123 ---
Previous Ground Floor Plan - 3/22/22
EXT.
RECESS
(E) ADJACENT
PARCEL
(E) ADJACENT
PARCEL
(E) ADJACENT BUILDING
(2180 PALM AVE.)
Proposed Ground Floor Plan - 6/13/23
Le Court Rouge - Ground Floor Plan
2164 Palm Ave, San Mateo CA
scale: 1:30
Swatt | Miers Architects
6/13/23

--- page 124 ---
Previous Second Floor Plan - 3/22/22
EXT.
RECESS
EXIT 1
BELOW
STOR.
ROOM ROOF
BELOW
GARAGE
BELOW
CLAY TENNIS COURT
BELOW
(E) ADJACENT BUILDING
Proposed Second Floor Plan - 6/13/23
Le Court Rouge - Second Floor Plan
2164 Palm Ave, San Mateo CA
scale: 1:30
Swatt | Miers Architects
6/13/23

--- page 125 ---
Previous Roof Plan - 3/22/22
STOR.
ROOM ROOF
TENNIS COURT STRUCTURE
NON-COMBUSTIBLE &
ROOF
WATERPROOF FABRIC ROOF
(E) ROOF BELOW @ ADJACENT BUILDING
Proposed Roof Plan - 6/13/23
Le Court Rouge - Roof Plan
2164 Palm Ave, San Mateo CA
scale: 1:30
Swatt | Miers Architects
6/13/23

--- page 126 ---
EXT.
RECESS
(E) ADJACENT
BUILDING
(E) ADJACENT
BUILDING
E
1. Cross Section 'A'
2. Cross Section 'A1'
PARKING
AREA
PALM AVE.
3. Longitudinal Section 'B'
Le Court Rouge - Building Sections
2164 Palm Ave, San Mateo CA
scale: 1:30
Swatt | Miers Architects
06/13/23

--- page 127 ---
fabric roof assembly-exterior
fabric roof assembly-interior
dark bronze aluminum
window system
(punched)
PALM AVE.
north elevation (west and south elevations sim.)
east elevation (palm ave.)
fiber cement panel siding and reveal joints
orange accent color at
smooth cement plaster
finish at recess
red thin brick veneer cladding
Le Court Rouge - Material Board
2164 Palm Ave, San Mateo CA
scale: no scale
Swatt | Miers Architects
6/13/23

--- page 128 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Photo simulation 1
06/13/23

--- page 129 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Photo simulation 2
06/13/23

--- page 130 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Photo simulation 3
06/13/23

--- page 131 ---
ATTN

A
aaa
a

ee A

06/13/23

wn
=
2
>
'
o
}
©
o
=>
<=
=
oO
a.
x
oO
=
N
'
Co)
ao
>
oO
a
—
>
fo]
oO
o
—_l



--- page 132 ---
06/13/23

”n
=
2
>
'
co)
=}
=
o
>
<x
A=
Oo
oO
st
i<e)
rr
~N
'
co)
D
>
3
a
=
>
3
oO
@
_



--- page 133 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Views 06/13/23



--- page 134 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Views 06/13/23


--- page 135 ---
06/13/23

”n
=
2
>
'
co)
=}
c
o
>
<x
A=
Oo
oO
st
i<e)
rr
~N
'
co)
D
>
3
a
=
>
3
oO
@
_

Ey



--- page 136 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Views 06/13/23


--- page 137 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Potential Example of Material at Recess at North Wall
06/13/23

--- page 138 ---
06/13/23

Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Views


--- page 139 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Views 06/13/23



--- page 140 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Views 06/13/23


--- page 141 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Views 06/13/23


--- page 142 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Views 06/13/23


--- page 143 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Views 06/13/23


--- page 144 ---
Le Court Rouge - 2164 Palm Avenue - Views 06/13/23



--- page 145 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7638
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
June 13, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Election of Officers
RECOMMENDATION:
Elect a Chair and Vice Chair of Planning Commission
BACKGROUND:
Pursuant to the City of San Mateo Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures (Attachment 1), the Planning 
Commission election of the Chair and Vice Chair should occur annually close to June 10th. Chapter 3 of the Rules and 
Procedures describes the duties of the Chair and Vice Chair, and Chapter 4 outlines the typical selection process for these 
two positions. The elected Chair and Vice Chair would preside over the next Planning Commission meeting, which is 
scheduled for June 27, 2023.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for this item. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – City of San Mateo Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures
STAFF CONTACT
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager
msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7203

--- page 146 ---
Boards and Commissions  
Rules and Procedures 
 
 
Adopted on August 17, 2015 
by Resolution No. 82 (2015) 
Amended by Council Action on:  
January 17, 2017, April 17, 2017, April 16, 2018, May 21, 2018, May 3, 2021, and 
September 6, 2022

--- page 147 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
2 
City of San Mateo, Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures 
Table of Contents 
 
Chapter 1.  
Purpose and Overview ............................................................................................. 3 
Chapter 2. 
Commission Authority .............................................................................................. 4 
Chapter 3. 
Duties ........................................................................................................................ 7 
Chapter 4. 
Selection of Chair and Vice Chair ........................................................................... 10 
Chapter 5. 
Commissioner Conduct .......................................................................................... 11 
Chapter 6. 
Meetings ................................................................................................................. 13 
Chapter 7. 
Meeting Agendas .................................................................................................... 18 
Chapter 8. 
Financial Matters .................................................................................................... 20 
Chapter 9. 
Communication ...................................................................................................... 24 
Chapter 10. Boards and Commissions Selection Process .......................................................... 28 
Chapter 11. References .............................................................................................................. 30

--- page 148 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
3 
Chapter 1. 
Purpose and Overview  
This manual describes the way the City of San Mateo’s Boards and Commissions do their 
business. It is a compilation of all Board and Commission (hereafter referred to as 
“Commission” for the sake of brevity) rules and procedures that have been formally adopted by 
Council Resolution. These Rules and Procedures supersede individual Commission bylaws.  
These rules are intended to enhance public participation and debate so that the best possible 
decisions can be made for San Mateo. San Mateo has a long and proud tradition of open 
government and civil, intelligent public discourse. These rules, which must be approved by the 
City Council as a body, are subject to review and future modification by the City Council as 
needed. 
Appointed Board and Commission members are expected to understand and comply with these 
Rules and Procedures. Failure to comply with the rules and procedures outlined in this 
document may be cause for removal from the appointed position.

--- page 149 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
4 
Chapter 2. 
Commission Authority 
1. 
Commission Authority, Generally 
A. 
The primary role of City commissions is to increase public input and participation 
in the determination of City policies and some programs.  
B. 
The specific role of a City commission is to review and make recommendations to 
the City Council on matters within its scope of responsibility as defined in the 
Charter or Municipal Code. The commissions are basically a citizen’s advisory arm 
of the City Council, although certain commissions, such as the Planning 
Commission, may take final actions in certain prescribed areas. 
C. 
Most importantly, the commission serves as a vehicle for public input into City 
programs and policies referred to it by the City Council or brought to its attention 
by staff.  
D. 
The commission also serves to reduce the reevaluation of these matters before 
the City Council. 
E. 
On the specific matters referred to it by the City Council, the commission serves as 
the principal reviewing body of the City. 
F. 
Commissions adhere to the City Council’s policies on the programs under their 
scopes of interest. 
G. 
Commissions serve to represent the general interests of the entire City and not 
specific program areas or specific interest groups. 
H. 
Commissions are encouraged to express their views on issues, projects, or policies 
brought to them by the City department. 
I. 
As further described below, the Planning Commission has a distinct role with the 
City in that it makes decisions and recommendations to the Council on land use 
matters.  These include development applications submitted by project 
proponents.   
2. 
Applicability 
The complete scope of responsibilities for each commission is identified either in the 
Charter or in the City’s Municipal Code and will be provided to you by the Departments 
supporting your commission. When not in conflict with the Charter of the City of San 
Mateo, or the Constitution or laws of the State of California, these Commission Rules and 
Procedures (“Rules”) shall be in effect upon adoption by resolution of the Council.

--- page 150 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
5 
3. 
Revisions to these Rules 
The Council shall review and revise these Rules as needed. 
4. 
Authority of Each Board / Commission 
The authority of the City of San Mateo’s Boards and Commissions are described in the San 
Mateo City Charter Article VI, as well as its Municipal Code Title 2 Administration and 
Personnel in Chapters 2.15, 2.21, 2.24, 2.26, 2.27, 2.28, 2.29 and 2.57. 
A. 
Library Board: 
The Library Board oversees the Library department’s policies and accepts in the 
name of the City money, personal and real property donated for Library purposes. 
B. 
Personnel Board: 
The Personnel Board hears appeals submitted by any person in the competitive 
service relative to any disciplinary action, dismissal, demotion, charge of 
discrimination, or alleged violation of municipal code chapter 2.57, and to certify 
its findings and recommendations as provided in the personnel system rules. 
C. 
Community Relations Commission (CRC):  
The CRC addresses a broad spectrum of social issues and related policy and 
provides oversight for Federal grant programs that implement public services, 
housing, and community development programs. It is also the hearing and appeals 
board for Code Enforcement related cases. 
D. 
Park & Recreation Commission: 
The Park and Recreation Commission makes recommendations to the City Council 
on acquisition, development, beautification and maintenance of public parks, 
landscape resources, public recreation facilities, budget, and programs of park and 
recreation activities. 
E. 
Planning Commission: 
The Planning Commission hears requests and makes decisions and 
recommendations on land use projects.  This body also recommends policy 
changes to the City Council. 
F. 
Senior Citizens Commission:

--- page 151 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
6 
The Senior Citizens Commission encourages, fosters, and facilitates programs for 
the enhancement of all matters relating to the social, economic, and personal 
well-being of the senior population. 
G. 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
The Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission was established in 2018, 
consolidating the Public Works Commission and Sustainability Commission into 
one commission. It is the duty of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
to advise on policies and programs related to environmental sustainability, 
transportation and infrastructure. 
H. 
Investment Advisory Committee (IAC): 
The IAC serves as an administrative advisory committee to the City Manager. The 
IAC provides added insight and an independent perspective on the City’s 
investment policies and practices.  
I. 
Youth Activity Council (YAC): 
The Youth Activity Council provides experiences and opportunities for the youth 
and young adult population by: providing safe and enjoyable activities; creating 
community through special events; enhancing leadership and decision-making 
skills; providing service learning experiences; practicing civic participation and 
empowering our youth’s voice with our decision makers. 
5. 
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order 
To the extent these Rules do not address an issue of parliamentary procedure for 
legislative body meetings, Rosenberg’s Rules of Order: Simple Parliamentary Procedures 
for the 21st Century shall apply.

--- page 152 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
7 
Chapter 3. 
Duties 
1. 
Duties of the Chair 
A. 
All City commissions elect a presiding officer, known as a chairperson for a one-
year period. 
B. 
The Chair sets the tone for the entire meeting. 
C. 
To conduct meetings of the Commission as its chairperson efficiently: 
1. 
Ensure that consideration of items on the agenda move along without 
delay. 
2. 
Ensure that petitioners, proponents, and opponents are heard but not 
allowed to disrupt the meeting.  
3. 
Ensure that decorum is maintained at the meeting. 
4. 
In presiding over matters where the public has provided testimony and/or 
raised questions, the Chair should: 
a. 
Restate the question coming before the Commission.  
b. 
Direct questions or comments requiring a response to staff for a 
response.  
c. 
Ensure that staff and members of the public direct their comments 
to the chair. 
d. 
Help keep Commissioner comments and questions relevant to the 
matter being considered by the Commission, and schedule non-
agenda topics for subsequent meetings, where necessary and if 
agreed upon by the Commission during Reports and 
Announcements.  
e. 
If necessary, consider calling for a brief recess if orderly conduct of 
the meeting is being disrupted.  
f. 
Announce the decision of the Commission on all subjects. 
5. 
To ensure that each member of the Commission is provided an opportunity 
to completely express their views on items of business, the Chair should 
see that Commissioners ask to be recognized by the Chair before speaking.

--- page 153 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
8 
D. 
To correspond on behalf of the Commission, provided that opinions expressed on 
behalf of the Commission or City Government are consistent with the consensus of 
the Commission.  
E. 
Nothing under the Chair’s duties shall limit any individual Commissioner’s ability to 
interact with members of the public. 
2. 
Duties of Vice Chair 
In the absence of the Chair from the Commission meeting, the Vice Chair shall possess all 
powers of the Chair and be subject to all prescribed duties for that position. 
3. 
Duties of Commissioners 
A. 
Arrive on time for all Commission meetings. 
B. 
Review all meeting materials in preparation for Commission meetings. 
C. 
It is expected that Commissioners will attend all meetings. If a commissioner is 
absent for three consecutive meeting or for 15% of scheduled meetings annually, 
the City Clerk will notify Council who may take action to vacate the seat. The 
Commissioner is expected to notify the Staff Liaison or Staff Admin if they are 
unable to attend a meeting. 
D. 
For Planning Commissioners, make every effort to participate in the California 
League of Cities Planning Commissioner Academy during the first year as a 
Commissioner, and every other year thereafter. 
E. 
Read, and use as a primary reference, the Institute for Local Government’s 
Planning Commission Handbook.  
4. 
Duties of Staff Liaison 
A. 
The liaison, an assigned City staff person, has the following responsibilities: 
1. 
Create meeting schedules 
2. 
Prepare meeting agendas and Agenda Reports 
3. 
Notify the City Clerk of attendance problems, resignations, and members’ 
change of contact information. 
4. 
Ensure that sufficient research and analysis has been performed by staff to 
allow an informed decision by the Commission. 
5. 
Help facilitate and advise the Chair on meeting management.

--- page 154 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
9 
6. 
Ensure that all affected departments have an opportunity for input before 
bringing an item forward for commission consideration. 
7. 
For the Planning Commission, arrange an annual joint meeting with the 
City Council. 
B. 
The Staff Liaison, along with the City Clerk, is responsible for ensuring that 
appointed board/commission members are oriented about policies and 
procedures as they relate to the body. 
C. 
All communications addressed to a specific Board or Commission are received by 
the staff liaison or their designee and relayed to the appointed body. 
5. 
Duties of Administrative Staff 
Each commission also has an administrative staff person (Staff Admin), who works with 
the Staff Liaison, to support the body. Their responsibilities are to: 
A. 
Provide oversight of agenda preparation and its delivery to the full Commission 
and to the public. 
B. 
Ensure that meeting materials--including a sufficient number of agendas, universal 
speaker slips, and at least one binder of all related reports being presented at that 
meeting–are available for the public to examine at the meeting. 
C. 
Produce the action minutes for each meeting. 
D. 
Provide annually a record of attendance of each commissioner to the City Clerk. 
6. 
Duties of Council Liaison 
A. 
Every year the Mayor will appoint Council Members to serve as liaisons to the 
City’s Boards and Commissions. 
B. 
Council Members act as an advisor and resource to Commissioners and the 
commission’s Staff Liaison when issues regarding process, procedure, 
interpersonal or public relations arise. Commissioners are also welcome to 
approach the Council Liaison for support or if they have any concerns. Council 
Members should refrain from participation at Board and Commission meetings to 
avoid influencing the outcome of those meetings.

--- page 155 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
10 
Chapter 4. 
Selection of Chair and Vice Chair 
1. 
Commission reorganization, including rotation of the roles of the Chair and Vice Chair, 
occurs annually at the meeting as close as possible to June 10th of each year. The results 
of the vote should be publicly announced; and the vote recorded in the minutes. 
2. 
Nomination of commissioners to serve as Chair and Vice Chair for the coming year can be 
made by any of the current commissioners in attendance. 
3. 
The Chair and Vice Chair are elected by the majority of the commission for a one-year 
term and hold office until their successors are elected or until their terms as members of 
the commission expire. 
4. 
The normal convention is a rotation from Vice Chair to Chair. Deviation from this normal 
convention should be extremely rare and must be accompanied by stated justification by 
the Commissioner making a nomination that does not conform to the normal convention. 
5. 
The City Council believes that experience as a Commissioner will assist those who are 
selected to serve as Chair or Vice Chair, and that it is in everyone’s best interest that 
candidates have experience in cycles of governing to acclimate themselves to the jobs, 
tasks, and roles of the Commission.

--- page 156 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
11 
Chapter 5. 
Commissioner Conduct 
1. 
Members shall: 
A. 
put the community’s interests first at all times by making decisions with the 
interest of the community at-large in mind and avoid representing personal 
interests 
B. 
treat each other, council members, staff, and members of the public with dignity, 
courtesy, and respect 
C. 
not interrupt speakers, allow them to finish their presentation before asking 
questions 
D. 
not engage in discussion with a member of the public during the meeting 
E. 
maintain confidentiality of all closed session materials and discussion 
F. 
be attentive to others, limiting interruptions and distractions 
G. 
encourage diverse viewpoints in debate while being mindful not to prolong 
discourse or block consensus 
H. 
agree to respectfully disagree with colleagues 
I. 
keep comments clear, concise, and on-topic 
J. 
start and end meetings on time and work from the agenda 
K. 
determine whether to schedule a future agenda item for discussion and/or action, 
during Reports and Announcements, when non-agenda items are raised in the 
course of the meeting  
L. 
present problems in a way that promotes discussion and resolution 
M. 
meet with the Council liaison to the Commission when requested. 
N. 
Pay close attention to the meeting and limit the use of electronic devices while on 
the dais, except as necessary to access agenda materials or respond to urgent 
personal matters 
2. 
Commissioners may not be employed by the City or provide services under a contract 
with the City. Commissioners may not volunteer in the operations arm of the department 
their commission is affiliated with, without Department Head approval. However, 
Commissioners are encouraged to volunteer for city events, put on by any City 
department, or volunteer in any capacity in other City departments. Commissioners

--- page 157 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
12 
enhance their presence in the community by volunteering with local non-profits or 
assisting with community events and serving on special committees. 
3. 
Commissioners are subject to all the provisions of the City’s Harassment and 
Discrimination Policy (#301).

--- page 158 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
13 
Chapter 6. 
Meetings 
1. 
All Commission decisions must be taken at Commission meetings. Before taking action the 
Commission may be informed by project applicants, interested members of the public, 
and City staff. 
2. 
No business may be transacted by the commission at a regular or special meeting unless a 
quorum of the membership is present (50% plus one of those currently appointed). 
3. 
Commission Meeting Dates 
A. 
If at any time any regular meeting of the Commission falls on a holiday or if it is 
known that a quorum will not be available, the meeting may be rescheduled to the 
earliest convenient time. 
B. 
The Boards and Commissions shall adopt a schedule of quarterly or more frequent 
meetings on an annual basis, which become the regular meeting dates. 
C. 
Regular meeting dates may be amended with the approval of the Commission. 
4. 
Types of Meetings 
A. 
Regular Meetings are those identified in the adopted meeting schedule. Regular 
meetings are agendized and posted at least 72 hours in advance of the meeting, 
and no earlier than 96 hours before the meeting.  
B. 
Special Meetings are called at a non-regular meeting date and time. They are 
called by the Chair or Commission with a minimum of 24 hours’ notice, versus 72 
hours’ notice for regular meetings. 
C. 
Study Sessions are special meetings that are held for the purpose of providing 
information to the Commission, particularly on issues that are more complex or 
more time-consuming than matters typically scheduled on regular Commission 
meetings. At study sessions Commissioners may collectively provide direction to 
City staff, or to an applicant in the case of the Planning Commission. Typically, no 
action is taken at the study sessions, but direction may be given. 
D. 
Closed Sessions at the commission level would be very rare and would only occur 
at the direction of the City Attorney. The procedures for the conduct of the closed 
sessions shall be the same as those for open session meetings, except that the 
public, after allowance for public comment, will be excluded. 
E. 
Emergency Meetings are allowed per the Ralph M. Brown Act when an emergency 
situation involving matters upon which prompt action is necessary due to the 
disruption or threatened disruption of the public’s well-being.

--- page 159 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
14 
F. 
Adjourned Meetings due to Power Outages 
In the event a quorum of the body loses electrical power or suffers an internet 
connection outage not corrected within 15 minutes, the meeting will be adjourned 
to a date certain. Any items noticed as public hearings will be continued to the 
next regularly scheduled meeting of the Commission. Any other agenda items the 
Commission has not taken action on will be placed on a future agenda. 
5. 
Voting 
A motion, second, and a majority vote of the Commission shall be required for any formal 
action of Commission. If the meeting is virtual, or any member is teleconferencing in, the 
vote must be taken by roll call vote. 
6. 
The Chair, with the approval of a majority of the Commission, can change the order of 
hearing of items on the agenda. 
7. 
Public Participation 
A. 
All members of the public are encouraged and invited to participate in the 
legislative process of the City’s Boards and Commissions, for example by 
submission of comments before the meeting or speaking in person at the 
scheduled meeting. 
B. 
It is the intent of these rules to allow everyone to be heard without fear of cheers 
or jeers that may discourage public participation. For these reasons, these rules 
are taken seriously. Disruptive or unruly behavior can result in removal from the 
Commission meeting to the extent allowed by state law.  The presiding member of 
a legislative body may remove an individual for disrupting a meeting after the 
individual first receives a warning, yet continues the disruptive behavior. The 
legislative body may also decide to clear the room if interruptions render the 
orderly conduct of the meeting unfeasible and order cannot be restored by the 
removal of disruptive individual(s) alone. 
C. 
Time Limits for public comment: 
1. 
Individual Speakers - 3 minutes  
2. 
Organized group (in lieu of individual speakers) – up to 15 minutes for a 
group presentation, as many speakers as fit within the time allowance 
3. 
The Chair may, at their discretion, limit the amount of time allotted to the 
speaker when needed. 
4. 
The Chair shall manage public comments such that no individual speaker is 
allotted a disproportionate amount of time.

--- page 160 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
15 
D. 
In-person members of the public are invited to speak at the lectern microphone, 
whenever available, to ensure all attendees can hear and so that the recording can 
be captured. 
E. 
Individuals who wish to speak in-person should submit a speaker card to the 
commission’s Staff Admin for in person meetings.  For remote meetings conducted 
virtually, the raise the hand feature is used and managed by the Staff Admin. 
F. 
Commissioners should be careful to not engage in back and forth questions or 
discussion with public speakers.  If a member of the public raises a question, the 
Chair should invite staff (or an applicant before the Planning Commission) to 
respond to any questions raised at the end of the public comment period. 
8. 
Agendized Discussion Items (Public Hearings, New Business, Old Business) 
A. 
Staff / applicant presentation 
B. 
Commission questions to applicant and/or staff 
C. 
Open public hearing (or public comment section) for testimony 
D. 
Close public hearing (or public comment section) 
E. 
Response by staff to public questions/concerns (or by an applicant before the 
Planning Commission), if warranted 
F. 
Commission discussion and deliberation 
G. 
Commission votes 
9. 
Appeals 
A. 
Appeals are public hearings and will follow the order stated above with the 
following time allocations: 
1. 
Appellant – 15 min 
2. 
Individual Speakers – 3 min 
3. 
Rebuttal – 5 min 
4. 
If the appellant is not the applicant, the applicant shall also have 15 minute 
presentation and a 5 minute rebuttal.

--- page 161 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
16 
B. 
Any person that addressed the Commission during one of the fifteen-minute 
periods may not speak again during the public comment period for individual 
speakers on the appeal.  
10. Items Considered after 11:00 p.m. 
11. At 11 pm the Commission will determine with a majority vote or consensus whether to 
continue with an item or take up any unheard items. 
12. Action Minutes 
A. 
The City Council and all of its Boards and Commissions shall use Action Minutes to 
record the decisions of the body. 
B. 
Action Minutes contain very little, if any, narrative content and do not capture 
details of public comment or Commissioner comments, questions and opinions. 
Staff is responsible for producing the minutes. Commissioners may request 
correction only of factual errors when presented with the draft minutes. No 
supplemental materials may be appended to minutes.  
C. 
Motions and votes are shown in the record, whenever applicable. 
D. 
Media (audio/video) recordings will be used to provide a verbatim record of 
meetings and are kept as identified in the City’s Records Retention Schedule. 
13. Conflict of Interest 
A. 
The Political Reform Act (PRA), implemented and enforced by the Fair Political 
Practices Commission (FPPC), controls financial conflicts of interest.  
B. 
The other applicable law is Government Code §1090, which applies only to City 
contracts in which a public official has a financial interest. 
C. 
Whenever it appears to a Commissioner that they may have a prohibited financial 
interest in any City contract, or an item that may be presented to the Commission, 
the Commissioner should consult with the City Attorney at the earliest opportunity 
for advice on whether a disqualifying conflict of interest exists.  
D. 
If the City Attorney is consulted on such a matter, the City Attorney shall provide 
their advice in writing, and shall provide a copy of their opinion to the 
Commission, the City Council, the City Manager, the affiliated Department Head, 
and the Staff Liaison. 
E. 
A member shall not vote upon or participate in any matter on which they have a 
conflict of interest.

--- page 162 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
17 
F. 
A member shall openly state the reason for their conflict of interest. 
G. 
A member who is disqualified by a conflict of interest shall recuse themselves from 
the dais and leave the room unless it is during the Consent Calendar. 
14. Conflict of Interest (applies only to Planning Commission) 
A. 
The Political Reform Act (PRA), implemented, regulated and enforced by the Fair 
Political Practices Commission (FPPC), controls financial conflicts of interest.  
B. 
The other applicable law is Government Code §1090, which applies only to City 
contracts in which a public official has a financial interest. 
C. 
Whenever it appears to a Commissioner that they may have a prohibited financial 
interest in any City contract, or an item that may be presented to the Commission, 
the Commissioner should consult with the City Attorney’s Office at the earliest 
opportunity for advice on whether a disqualifying conflict of interest exists.  
D. 
If the City Attorney is consulted on such a matter, the City Attorney shall provide 
their advice in writing, and shall provide a copy of their opinion to the 
Commission, the City Council, the City Manager, the affiliated Department Head, 
and the Staff Liaison. 
E. 
With full consideration of the City Attorney’s advice, it is up to each individual 
Commissioner to decide for themselves whether there is a conflict of interest. 
F. 
A member shall not vote upon any matter on which they have a conflict of 
interest. 
G. 
A member shall openly state the reason for his/her conflict of interest. 
H. 
A member who is disqualified by a conflict of interest shall recuse themselves from 
the dais and leave the room unless it is during the Consent Calendar.

--- page 163 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
18 
Chapter 7. 
Meeting Agendas 
1. 
Agenda Order 
Commission agendas will be prepared by the Staff Liaison to the commission and 
presented to the Commission in the order described below. 
A. 
Opening 
1. 
Pledge of Allegiance 
2. 
Roll Call 
B. 
Consent Calendar 
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Commission 
to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If discussion is 
desired, that item may be removed and considered separately. 
C. 
Public Comment 
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the 
agenda may address the Commission at this time. State law prevents Commissions 
from taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Comments may be referred 
to staff for follow up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, 
an opportunity for additional public comment will be provided later in the agenda, 
if needed. 
D. 
Public Hearing 
Duly noticed hearings as mandated by local, state, or federal law, providing an 
opportunity for public review and comment of a proposed action by the 
Commission. 
E. 
Old Business 
Non-routine items that have been presented before that require further oral 
presentation and/or discussion before action is taken. 
F. 
New Business 
Non-routine items requiring an oral presentation and discussion before action is 
taken. 
G. 
Reports and Announcements

--- page 164 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
19 
Commissioners provide an update on any meetings they attended in their 
commissioner role and Commissioners may make individual requests to schedule 
future items for consideration. A majority vote of the Commission is required to 
place a request on a future agenda.  Additional Public Comment (if needed) 
H. 
Adjourn 
2. 
Agenda Item Submission 
A. 
The Staff Liaison coordinates all agenda items for consideration on a given agenda. 
In order to ensure that each item for discussion has been thoroughly analyzed in 
advance, an Agenda Report shall be prepared.   
1. 
The preparation of Agenda Reports applies to all Boards and Commissions 
in order to ensure: 
a. 
The Board or Commission has all the information needed to make a 
well-informed decision; and  
b. 
Any action is fully transparent to the public.  
2. 
Agenda Reports shall be part of the public agenda packet issued prior to 
the meeting. Copies of the agenda, Agenda Reports and supporting 
materials shall be made available to the public at the meeting. 
B. 
A Commissioner may request an item be considered on a future agenda and, upon 
a majority vote of the Commission, staff will prepare an Agenda Report and 
agendize the item for a future meeting. Before the vote, staff will provide 
information, if available, on how much staff time would be required to produce 
the Agenda Report. 
C. 
Members of the Public  
1. 
A member of the public may request Commission action in the following 
ways: 
a. 
Write a letter to the Commission  
b. 
Speak during the Public Comment period at a Board / Commission 
meeting 
2. 
The first response is for the staff liaison to address concerns raised directly 
outside the meeting regarding the issue.  
3. 
If a majority of the Commission agrees, the item will be agendized at a 
future meeting.

--- page 165 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
20 
Chapter 8. 
Financial Matters 
1. 
All Commissioners serve as volunteers without compensation or a stipend. 
2. 
Commissioner Expense Reimbursement Policy 
It is rare that a Commissioner would need reimbursement, but in the event that they do, 
the following policy shall apply: 
A. 
Authorized Expenses 
1. 
City funds, equipment, supplies, titles, and staff time must only be used for 
authorized city business.  
2. 
Expenses incurred while attending educational seminars designed to 
improve officials’ skill and information levels are permitted with pre-
approval from the affiliated Department Head. 
3. 
All other expenses require prior approval by the City Council. 
4. 
The City will not reimburse the following expenses: 
a. 
The personal portion of any trip. 
b. 
Political contributions or events. 
c. 
Family expenses, including partner’s expenses when accompanying 
official on agency-related business. 
d. 
Entertainment expenses, such as movies, sporting events, or 
cultural events. 
e. 
Non-mileage personal automobile expenses, including repairs, 
citations, insurance or gasoline. 
B. 
Cost Control 
To conserve City resources and keep expenses within community standards for 
public officials, expenditures should adhere to the following guidelines. If expenses 
are incurred that exceed these guidelines, the cost borne or reimbursed by the 
City will be limited to the costs that fall within these guidelines. 
1. 
Airfare 
Airfares that are equal to or less than those available through the League of 
California Cities, the California State Association of Counties and the State

--- page 166 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
21 
of California are presumed to be the most economical and reasonable for 
purposes of reimbursement under this policy. If no discounted airfare is 
available through these entities, then the most reasonable and economical 
airfare possible. 
2. 
Airport Parking 
Long-term parking must be used for travel exceeding 24 hours. 
3. 
Automobile 
Mileage shall be reimbursed at IRS rates presently in effect (see 
www.irs.gov). These rates are designed to compensate the driver for 
gasoline, insurance, maintenance, and other expenses. In addition, drivers 
may be reimbursed for bridge and road tolls. For rental vehicles, only 
receipted fuel expenses will be reimbursed. 
4. 
Car Rental 
Rental rates that are equal or less than those available through the State of 
California’s website Car Rental Resources for State Travel shall be 
considered the most economical and reasonable for purposes of 
reimbursement under this policy. 
5. 
Conferences/Meetings 
If such lodging is in connection with a conference, lodging expenses must 
not exceed the group rate published by the conference sponsor for the 
meeting in question if such rates are available at the time of booking. If the 
group rate is not available, rates that are equal to or less than the group 
rate at the host hotel are presumed to be reasonable and reimbursable for 
purposes of this policy. 
6. 
Internet 
Officials will be reimbursed for Internet access connection and/or usage 
fees away from home, if Internet access is necessary for City business. 
7. 
Lodging 
Commissioners are expected to select the most cost-effective and logical 
lodging available, including utilizing the lodging at the conference/training 
site, if available. If there is not specific lodging associated with the official 
City business, the City shall pay for actual lodging expenses up to the 
United States General Services Administration (GSA) maximum rate 
allowed by location (http://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/104877). This

--- page 167 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
22 
maximum applies to the room rate only and does not include any taxes or 
fees. Government rates for lodging are often available and should be 
sought. The City will pay only for standard single rooms, including taxes 
and fees, for individual Council members, and any additional nonbusiness 
expenses incurred will be paid by the Council member. 
8. 
Meals 
The City will pay for a Commissioner’s meals during authorized, required 
travel up to the per diem amount (Per Diem Rates | GSA). If meals are 
included in the cost of a conference or training, the City will not pay for a 
meal that a Commissioner elects to purchase from another source. Unlike 
lodging, using the per diem methodology for meals that is limited to the 
GSA amount eliminates the need for employees to submit receipts. Thus, 
the Commissioner only needs to report the per diem amounts in the 
expense report, but not the actual receipts. This only applies to meals, as 
all other travel expenses require a receipt to substantiate the purchase.  
When the meal function is an organized event, the official shall be 
reimbursed the amount being charged by the event organizer for the meal. 
The City will not pay for alcohol/personal bar expenses. 
9. 
Taxis/Shuttles 
Taxis or shuttle fares may be reimbursed, including a 15 percent gratuity 
per fare, when the cost of such fares is equal or less than the cost of car 
rentals, gasoline, and parking combined, or when such transportation is 
necessary for time-efficiency. 
10. 
Telephone/Fax/Cellular 
Officials will be reimbursed for actual telephone and fax expenses incurred 
on City business. Telephone bills should identify which calls were made on 
City business. 
11. 
Transportation 
Officials traveling on City business shall use the most economical mode and 
class of transportation reasonably consistent with scheduling needs and 
cargo space requirements, using the most direct, time-efficient route. 
Government and group rates must be used when available.

--- page 168 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
23 
C. 
Expense Reports 
1. 
Expense reimbursement requests must be submitted on an expense report 
form provided by the City. Reports must document how the expenditure 
met the requirements of this policy. 
2. 
Expense reports must be submitted within 30 days of an expense being 
incurred; and must be accompanied by receipts documenting each 
expense.  
3. 
Expense reports are a public record. 
D. 
Audits of Expenses 
All expenses are subject to verification that they comply with this policy. 
E. 
Reports on Meetings 
Each official shall briefly give an oral report on any Brown Act meetings they 
attended for which they receive expense reimbursement at their next City Council, 
Board, or Commission meeting. 
F. 
Violation of this Policy 
Under state law, use of public resources or falsifying expense reports in violation 
of this policy may result in any or all of the following: 1) loss of reimbursement 
privileges, 2) a demand for restitution to the City, 3) the agency’s reporting the 
expenses as income to the official to state and federal tax authorities, 4) civil 
penalties of up to $1,000 per day and three times the value of the resources used, 
and 5) prosecution for misuse of public resources.

--- page 169 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
24 
Chapter 9. 
Communication 
1. 
All communications are public records.  
All letters, memoranda, email, texts and other platform writing communications involving 
members of boards, commissions, committees and task forces, the subject of which relate 
to the conduct of government or the performance of any governmental function, with a 
few exceptions as outlined in the Public Records Act, are public records.  
2. 
The City Council, in adopting this policy, does not waive attorney-client-privilege or any 
other privilege associated with a closed session authorized under the Ralph M. Brown Act.  
3. 
Ralph M. Brown Act 
Each Commissioner should be mindful of all of the requirements of the Brown Act in 
communicating with each other. 
4. 
Correspondence 
A. 
After the Commission has taken a position on an issue, official correspondence 
should reflect this position. While Commissioners who may disagree with a 
position are free to prepare correspondence on such issues as private citizens, City 
letterhead, official Board or Commission title, and staff support should not be 
utilized. 
B. 
City letterhead, logo, insignia and brand, as well as, staff support cannot be 
utilized for personal or political purposes. 
5. 
Electronic Communication Record Retention 
A. 
Commissioners are issued City of San Mateo email addresses and are required to 
use this email for all commission related communication. The City email may not 
be forwarded to a personal email.  
B. 
All emails sent and received through the City server are saved for at least two 
years on the City’s network and are subject to the Public Records Act. 
C. 
Communication on social media sites are saved for at least two years. 
D. 
Text messages sent on any City-provided device are saved for at least two years. 
6. 
Social Media Use as a Commission Member 
Social media are internet-based platforms that allow for interactive communication and 
engagement with the public. These may include (without limitation): Facebook, Twitter, 
Instagram, YouTube, TikTok, Snapchat, blogs, etc.

--- page 170 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
25 
The City’s image as a professional organization is critical to maintaining the respect of the 
public, and members should use discretion when posting or communicating on social 
media. If Commission Members choose to maintain and use personal social media 
accounts to conduct City business, they must follow current federal and state regulations, 
as well as Council and City policies. 
A. 
Brown Act:  Social media postings may turn into an interactive dialogue. The 
Brown Act has expanded to provide guidance on elected officials use of media 
platforms that are free of charge and open and accessible to the public. 
1. 
Permitted Uses: You may answer questions, provide information to public 
and solicit information from the public about city business; share a City 
post to your Council Member site; and tag other elected officials in a post. 
2. 
Prohibited Uses: A majority of the members may not use social media to 
discuss agency business and a member may not respond directly to any 
posting by another member regarding agency business including no ‘likes’ 
‘thumbs up’, ‘emojis’ or other symbols. 
B. 
First Amendment.  Commissioners social media platforms can become public 
forums subject to First Amendment requirements.  If a social media platform is 1) 
used for City business and 2) has interactive features that are accessible to the 
public without limitation, it is a public forum.  The City’s Social Media Policy 
contains rules for public participation and addresses what will constitute 
unacceptable content.  In general, officials may not block a member of the public 
from their social media sites if those sites have become public forums.  If 
unacceptable content appears on a site that has become a public forum, please 
consult with City staff. 
C. 
Public Records: Members are prohibited from deleting social media posts and 
related comments regarding any City-related matters to avoid violating the 
California Public Records Act. Social media is subject to the City’s record retention 
schedule. 
D. 
Best practices: Officials should be honest and accurate when posting information 
or news, especially when communicating during a crisis or emergency. Any 
mistakes, misstatements and/or factual errors must be corrected quickly upon 
discovery. When possible, news of citywide importance should first be announced 
by the official City-affiliated accounts then can be reshared by Commissioners. 
Unless the member has been designated to serve as a spokesperson, members 
should never represent themselves as a spokesperson for the entire Commission 
or City. Members should be mindful of recognizing that accomplishments of the 
City or Commission are achieved by collective action of the entire body or 
organization.

--- page 171 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
26 
7. 
Written Communications for Commission Meetings on Agenda Items 
A. 
The deadline for the receipt of written communications for inclusion in the agenda 
packet is up to 4:00 pm one week before the Commission meeting. This is to allow 
for adequate staff review and analysis, and to ensure public access to information, 
on all plans, correspondence, and other documents being heard by the 
Commission. Contact the Commission’s Staff Liaison or Staff Admin for specifics. 
B. 
To be included in the addendum to the packet, items may be received up until 4 
pm the day of the scheduled meeting.  
C. 
Materials distributed to Commissioners during the meeting shall be available for 
viewing by the public during the meeting if the materials were prepared by the 
City or a Commissioner, or at the conclusion of the meeting if prepared by another 
person. 
D. 
If a Commissioner receives materials regarding an agenda item, they shall forward 
it the Staff Liaison as soon as possible. 
8. 
Commission - Staff Relations 
A. 
Commissioners may make requests of City staff through their Department Head 
for limited research and information. Requests that will require significant staff 
time, as determined by the Staff Liaison, may be referred to the full Commission 
and only pursued if supported by a majority of the Commission.  All requests for 
research and information shall be made through the Staff Liaison. 
B. 
Commissioners are encouraged to submit their questions on agenda items to the 
Staff Liaison as far in advance of the meeting as possible so that staff can be 
prepared to respond at the Commission meeting.  
C. 
Clarifications or technical questions will be answered before the meeting 
whenever possible. 
D. 
Questions and all staff-prepared responses will be forwarded to all 
Commissioners. 
9. 
Speaking for “the City” 
Similar to written correspondence, when Commissioners are requested to speak to 
groups or are asked the Commission’s position on an issue, the response should reflect 
the position of the Commission as a whole. Of course, a member may clarify their vote on 
a matter by stating, for example, “While I voted against X, the Commission voted in 
support of it.” When representing the City at meetings or other venues, it is important

--- page 172 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
27 
that those in attendance gain an understanding of the Commission’s position rather than 
that of an individual member.   
10. Speaking as an Individual 
On occasion, Commissioners may wish to transmit correspondence on an issue upon 
which the Commission has yet to take a position or about an issue for which the 
Commission has no position. In these circumstances, members should clearly indicate in 
their communications that they are not speaking for the Commission or the City as a 
whole, but for themselves as an individual.

--- page 173 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
28 
Chapter 10. Boards and Commissions Selection Process 
1. 
Refer to the San Mateo City Charter Article VI on Boards and Commissions. 
2. 
Reappointments, Vacancies and Appointments 
A. 
The City Clerk’s Office manages the Boards and Commissions (hereafter referred 
to as “Commission” for ease of reference) application process. The process begins 
with the Clerk contacting members who are eligible for appointment to a second 
term and finding out their interest in reappointment.   
B. 
The City Clerk then shares the results with each appointment subcommittee and 
receives direction on the need to schedule an appointment subcommittee meeting 
to provide direction on reappointments. The default is that currently serving 
Commissioners will each be interviewed for reappointment. However, if it is 
determined that a commissioner’s performance is outstanding, or that other 
factors necessitate keeping them in their role, then an automatic reappointment 
can occur with a majority vote or majority consensus of the City Council. Any 
commission seat selected for re-interviews, means the seat will be processed as 
part of the full annual recruitment and the currently sitting commissioner may be 
interviewed along with other applicants. Commission recruitment occurs annually 
in the months of April and May and is managed by the City Clerk’s Office. For these 
routine vacancies, the announcement is made approximately two months prior to 
the date on which the vacancy is to occur. 
C. 
The City Clerk recruits for all open seats utilizing multiple avenues including: 
advertising, the website, social media and networking lists to present qualified 
candidates to the Council for consideration. 
D. 
The interview and selection of candidates is an open process. 
E. 
The City Clerk receives the applications (ideally a minimum of three applications is 
sought for each vacant seat) and arranges for the appropriate sub-committee, in a 
noticed special meeting, to interview applicants and form their recommendation. 
F. 
Commissioners, Board and committee members (hereafter referred to as 
“Commissioners” for ease of reference) are appointed by a majority vote of the 
City Council and serve staggered terms. 
G. 
A City Council Appointment Subcommittee conducts the candidate interviews and 
makes a recommendation for Council approval. The Council will receive the full list 
of candidates for each opening.  
H. 
The Appointment Subcommittee recommendations for new and reappointed 
Commissioners are confirmed by Council under the Consent Calendar at regular

--- page 174 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
29 
Council meetings. A staff report summarizing the Subcommittees’ 
recommendations will be provided to the full City Council and will include the list 
of all candidates reviewed by the subcommittee. Council may adopt the 
recommendations as presented or pull the item for further discussion. A majority 
vote of Council approves the appointees. 
I. 
The designated Appointment Subcommittee may establish an eligibility list for up 
to two applicants that will remain in effect for one year. 
J. 
Unscheduled Vacancies 
1. 
Subject to the Maddy Act (California Government Code § 54970), if an 
unscheduled vacancy occurs on a commission, the Council may either 
appoint from the pool of applicants on file (the eligibility list if there is one 
available) or open up the position to new applications where the above 
process is followed. 
2. 
For such non-routine vacancies, the announcement for new applications is 
made as soon as possible in order to maintain viable memberships on the 
various boards and commissions. 
3. 
All appointments occur in an open public meeting. 
K. 
Youth Activities Council (YAC) Selection Process 
The YAC is the only group not appointed directly by the City Council but through 
an application method administered by Parks and Recreation. High school students 
from all of the City’s public high schools, as well as Junipero Serra High School and 
Nueva Upper School, are recruited for potential participation starting in the late 
spring of each year.

--- page 175 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
30 
Chapter 11. References 
1. 
San Mateo City Charter, §2.03, 2.04, 2.12, Article VI 
2. 
Ralph M. Brown Act (California Government Code, § 54950 et seq.) 
3. 
California Government Code, § 53234 et seq. 
4. 
San Mateo Municipal Code 
5. 
California Public Records Act (California Government Code, § 6250 et seq.) 
6. 
AB 1234 California Government Code, § 53232.3 
7. 
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order