--- page 1 ---
POLICY AND ACTION X.X 
 
 
EAST PALO ALTO  
CITY COUNCIL  
STAFF REPORT 
 
 
 
 
Date: 
September 17, 2024 
To: 
Honorable Mayor and Members of the City Council 
Via: 
From: 
Melvin E. Gaines, City Manager 
Jeff Liu, Chief of Police 
 
Subject: 
Use of Surveillance Cameras and Automated License Plate Recognition 
Systems for Enhanced Public Safety 
 
 
Recommendation  
  
Adopt a resolution: 
 
1. Authorizing the City Manager to install surveillance cameras at all City buildings, 
pedestrian/bicycle overcrossings and City parks to enhance public safety;  
2. Authorizing a one-year automated license plate reader (ALPR) pilot program by directing 
the City Manager to enter a one-year contract with Flock Technology to install fixed 
automated license plate reader (ALPR) systems at strategic locations to enhance public 
safety; and 
3. Waiving the formal bid procedure pursuant to East Palo Alto Municipal Code Section 
2.84.070(D). 
  
Alignment with City Council Strategic Plan  
  
This recommendation is primarily aligned with:   
  
Priority No. 1: Enhance Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness  
  
  
Background  
 
In 2022, following City Council direction, the City began installing surveillance cameras to 
enhance public safety at Jack Farrell Park, Martin Luther King Jr. (MLK Jr.) Park and on

--- page 2 ---
POLICY AND ACTION X.X 
the US 101 bicycle/pedestrian overcrossing.  Initially, temporary cameras were installed at 
the two parks. The City later installed long-term surveillance cameras at Jack Farrell Park 
and is working with a technology company called Juganu to pilot the use of smart fixtures 
with lighting, WiFi/5G, video, and other capabilities at MLK Jr. Park and on the US 101 
overcrossing.  Installation of the Juganu system at MLK Jr. Park is expected to be 
completed by September 20, 2024.  Installation of the Juganu system on the US 101 
overcrossing is expected to be completed by February 2025.  
The City Council has not provided direction or authorization to install cameras at other 
locations throughout the City. 
In addition to surveillance cameras, the City would like to explore the use of automated 
license plate reader (ALPR) systems as an investigative tool for the Police Department. 
For reasons outlined below, the City proposes to launch a one-year ALPR pilot program 
using Flock technology.  
This report outlines the utility of surveillance cameras and ALPRs, potential arguments 
against the use of such technologies, and a proposed approach to the City using 
surveillance cameras and ALPRs.  Ultimately, this report recommends that the City 
Council authorize the use of surveillance cameras at City facilities, parks, and 
overcrossings.  It also recommends that the City Council authorize a one-year pilot 
program in which the City would use ALPRs at strategic locations throughout the City.    
 
Analysis  
 
The Utility of Surveillance Cameras 
The use of surveillance cameras has become an integral component of public safety 
strategies in municipalities across the country. As the East Palo Alto Police Department 
(EPAPD) continues to explore innovative ways to enhance public safety, the deployment of 
surveillance cameras in strategic locations throughout the city could be a critical tool. 
EPAPD has experienced a good amount of success investigating violent crimes in our 
community through community relationships and community members sharing privately-
owned surveillance video footage for police investigative purposes.  While privately owned 
surveillance cameras have helped solve crimes, they have significant limitations. These 
cameras are scattered, often lacking comprehensive coverage of public areas, leading to 
gaps in critical evidence. Footage quality varies, with poor resolution and lighting 
sometimes rendering it unusable for investigations. Additionally, frequent malfunctions due 
to poor maintenance reduce their reliability. Access to footage is also challenging, as it 
requires owner consent or a court order. These issues highlight the need for a more 
reliable and cohesive surveillance system to better support law enforcement.   
The presence of surveillance cameras act as a deterrent to criminal activity. Research 
shows that security cameras can help reduce crime in public areas.  Security cameras

--- page 3 ---
POLICY AND ACTION X.X 
have been shown to decrease crime rates by about 24%, particularly for car theft, burglary, 
and drug-related offenses.  The knowledge that actions are being recorded could deter 
potential criminals from engaging in illegal activities, thereby enhancing overall community 
safety. 
In addition to being a crime deterrent, surveillance cameras are vital to police 
investigations, providing law enforcement with crucial evidence to identify suspects, 
witnesses, and the sequence of events surrounding a crime. This evidence is often 
instrumental in both solving crimes and securing convictions in court. Moreover, the ability 
to reconstruct events through video footage can lead to more accurate and efficient 
investigations, ultimately contributing to a safer community. 
The lack of witnesses and corroborating evidence presents major challenges to law 
enforcement investigations of major crimes. In many cases, crucial evidence is either 
missing or insufficient, hindering the progress of investigations and the ability to apprehend 
suspects swiftly. Surveillance data is an effective means for providing information 
necessary for investigating and justly solving cases efficiently and effectively. 
The use of surveillance cameras can also enhance community trust in law enforcement. 
When employed with transparency and accountability, these systems serve as a safeguard 
for both the public and police officers, ensuring that interactions are documented and that 
both parties are protected. This transparency is crucial in fostering a sense of security and 
trust within the community. 
City of East Palo Alto Public Surveillance Cameras 
In 2022, a violent gun battle erupted in Jack Farrell Park, where over 30 rounds were fired 
by multiple gunmen resulting in three injuries, one of which was fatal.  The only video 
evidence available was recorded on a smart phone by a young girl who was playing in the 
park.  The young girl only captured a small portion of the shooting, as she was running for 
her life.  The investigation of this incident was particularly challenging as witnesses either 
refused to provide information or denied having any information.  Investigators were 
fortunate enough to have collected enough forensic evidence to present an actionable 
case to the District Attorney’s Office.  Surveillance cameras, had they been installed and 
operational, could have fully captured the incident and facilitated the comprehensive 
determination of how the incident occurred and identified the people responsible for the 
shooting. 
Public parks, City facilities, and pedestrian/bicycle overcrossing bridges are high-priority 
locations for the installation of surveillance cameras. These areas are particularly 
vulnerable to criminal activities due to their open and accessible nature and the lack of 
surveillance has made it difficult to monitor and deter such activities. 
As mentioned earlier, following City Council direction, the City has installed, or is in the 
process of installing, surveillance cameras to enhance public safety at Jack Farrell Park, 
Martin Luther King Jr. (MLK Jr.) Park and on the US 101 bicycle/pedestrian overcrossing. 
The City also has facility security systems with cameras installed at the Corporation Yard 
on Tara Road, at Cooley Landing, at the Gloria Way Well, and at 1960 Tate Street. These

--- page 4 ---
POLICY AND ACTION X.X 
cameras are only focused on security of the buildings, not surveillance of public areas. 
Parks are frequented by residents, visitors, and families.  They must be safe spaces in our 
community and free of criminal activity, so they are available for their intended purpose, a 
safe outdoor space for families.  
The current pedestrian overcrossing bridge is a vital thoroughfare for pedestrians. 
Unfortunately, its remote location makes it susceptible to criminal activities.  The Council 
authorized installation of surveillance cameras on the existing bridge; however, it has not 
directed staff to install cameras on the new bridge. Staff therefore requests direction from 
the City Council to authorize installation of cameras on the new bridge that is scheduled to 
open in late 2025.  This would enhance public safety by deterring crime and serving as a 
vital investigative tool for law enforcement, increasing the safety of those who use it daily. 
Staff recommends that the Council further authorize the installation of surveillance 
cameras at all City parks and facilities as well as on bicycle/pedestrian overcrossings.  If 
so authorized, staff will explore options for installing surveillance cameras and return to 
council for any necessary funding. 
The installation of surveillance cameras in these areas would not only aid in solving crimes 
by providing crucial evidence but also serve as a deterrent to potential offenders, creating 
a feeling of safety and security for those intending to enjoy our parks for healthy activities 
and travel safely across US 101. 
The Utility of Automated License Plate Recognition (ALPR) Technology  
Automated License Plate Recognition (ALPR) technology has proven to be a vital 
investigative tool for law enforcement agencies when conducting criminal 
investigations.  ALPR cameras, whether installed at fixed locations or placed on a vehicle, 
record vehicle description data, location, and date / time. This technology is as objective 
and unbiased, only recording this descriptive detail and nothing about the personal 
characteristics or identifying information of drivers or pedestrians within camera view. 
Once this information is collected by the system, the automated system checks the license 
plate data against the same state databases that police officers use to check vehicle 
license plates. This includes stolen vehicles and other crime related vehicles listed in the 
database connected to crimes, missing persons related vehicles, and other “stop requests” 
that law enforcement agencies have placed in the system. Any license plates matching law 
enforcement identified vehicles are relayed to officers and dispatchers monitoring the 
system as an alert. Time permitting, officers may attempt to locate vehicles related to 
alerts. Every alert would ultimately be confirmed with the originating agency, and the 
officer receiving the alert must confirm the information, when practicable, through the 
California Law Enforcement Telecommunications System (CLETS) before taking any 
enforcement action. 
In most cases, the data collected by the ALPR system is stored in remote servers owned 
by the vendor, and accessible through their online platform for a period, which is 
determined by the client.  When the data is considered evidence in a criminal investigation, 
the data will be downloaded and entered into evidence in accordance with established

--- page 5 ---
POLICY AND ACTION X.X 
evidence procedures. 
  
The City does not currently have ALPR systems installed, but believes ALPRs would be a 
vital investigative tool for identifying vehicles associated with criminal investigations. In 
2023, a young man was lying down on Kavanaugh wearing dark clothing when a vehicle 
drove over him, causing fatal injuries.  A private surveillance camera recorded the side of 
the responsible vehicle, but not the license plate.  A witness watched as the responsible 
driver continued driving on Kavanaugh toward University, stopping for a stop sign and a 
red light at University Avenue before turning eastbound toward the Dumbarton Bridge.  
Investigators accessed every surveillance camera system available to them and scoured 
the neighborhood seeking witnesses but were ultimately unable to determine the vehicle’s 
license plate number.  Had ALPR cameras been deployed on University Avenue near the 
city limit, the license plate of the suspect vehicle could have been captured, giving 
investigators the investigative lead necessary to identify the driver of the vehicle.   
In 2024, a man was attacked by a knife-wielding assailant at the corner of University 
Avenue and Bell Street.  The man suffered fatal injuries.  Grainy surveillance footage from 
the Shell gas station showed a witness vehicle stop on University Avenue, back up, then 
pull over to watch, and possibly video record the attack.  The occupants of the vehicle are 
eyewitnesses to the murder.  Their statements and possible evidence are vital to the 
investigation and prosecution of the crime.  Despite numerous attempts to solicit 
information from our community about the vehicle and witnesses in the vehicle, including 
broadcasting the video footage through the media, they remain unidentified to this 
day.  Had ALPR cameras been deployed, the vehicle’s license plate would likely have 
been captured, and investigators would have the investigative lead needed to identify key 
witnesses in the case. 
High visibility surveillance cameras and cameras equipped with ALPR technology would 
likely increase public safety and undoubtedly provide investigators with a robust 
investigative tool for use during criminal investigations. 
Arguments Against the Use of ALPR Technology 
While the City believes ALPR technology would be beneficial, there are concerns that 
community members may have.  Arguments against ALPR technology are typically rooted 
in concerns about privacy, civil liberties, data security, and potential misuse.  Below, these 
concerns are further discussed in light of ways the City would mitigate such concerns.   
1. Privacy Concerns: ALPRs can track the movements of individuals by recording the 
locations and times of their vehicles. Critics argue that this mass surveillance 
infringes on the right to privacy, especially when data is collected indiscriminately 
and retained for long periods. 
Mitigation: Flock technology is designed for users to search the database at a later 
time for valid investigative reasons with audit trails to curb abuse.  The City would 
conduct monthly audits to ensure the system is being used appropriately.  Any 
abuse of the system will expose the user to disciplinary action as it would constitute

--- page 6 ---
POLICY AND ACTION X.X 
an act of dishonesty or conduct unbecoming of a sworn officer. 
2. Potential for Abuse: There is a risk that ALPR data could be used for purposes 
beyond its original intent, such as tracking individuals without a warrant, targeting 
specific groups, or being sold to private companies. Without strict oversight, this 
data could be misused by authorities or hackers. 
Mitigation: The monthly audits of user activity would ensure the system is not being 
used for anything outside it’s original intent. 
3. Chilling Effect: The widespread use of ALPRs may lead to a "chilling effect," where 
individuals alter their behavior due to the fear of being constantly monitored. This 
could deter people from participating in lawful activities, such as attending protests 
or visiting sensitive locations like counseling centers. 
Mitigation: Again, Flock technology would be used by the City for investigations of 
criminal activity only, not to monitor individuals engaged in lawful or constitutionally 
protected activity. The City could do some outreach to make this clear to allay 
concerns of oversurveillance and thereby head off the chilling effect of its use. 
4. Data Security Risks: The vast amount of data collected by ALPRs is vulnerable to 
breaches. If hacked, this information could be used for malicious purposes, 
including identity theft, stalking, or other crimes. Ensuring the security of such data 
is a significant concern. 
Mitigation:  All images and metadata are encrypted from on-device to storage in the cloud 
using industry standards for encryption for internet communications. Flock Safety 
uses Amazon Web Services cloud storage and KMS-based encryption, limiting 
access to the encryption keys. All CJIS data is stored in the AWS GovCloud and is 
only available to Law Enforcement agencies. No CJIS data is shared with non-Law 
Enforcement Flock Safety Customers. Flock Safety reports no breaches to their 
cloud-based storage.  
Data collected by Flock cameras in our jurisdiction would be owned by our agency 
and would never be sold or shared by Flock to any private entities. The information 
collected by flock cameras, is available on Flock’s server for 30 days. After 30 days, 
it is automatically deleted from Flock’s secure server. 
5. Lack of Regulation and Oversight: In many places, there is insufficient regulation 
governing the use of ALPRs. Critics argue that without clear rules on how data 
should be collected, stored, and shared, there is a risk of abuse and overreach by 
law enforcement or other entities. 
Mitigation: If the City agrees to use Flock ALPR technology, the City would adopt a 
Lexipol policy governing the use of the technology and ensure compliance with the 
policy via monthly audits.  A copy of the unrevised Lexipol draft policy is attached 
for reference.  The City would also, as part of our agreement with Flock, set up and 
maintain a transparency portal webpage similar to transparency portals already in 
existence in other agencies.  The transparency portal would include a description of 
the technology as well as data showing vehicles detected, hot list hits, and

--- page 7 ---
POLICY AND ACTION X.X 
investigative searches by officers over their most recent 30 days.  Any member of 
the public with internet access may query our usage. 
(https://www.flocksafety.com/faq#privacy)  
at any time. 
6. Disproportionate Impact on Marginalized Communities: There are concerns 
that ALPRs could disproportionately target marginalized communities, either 
intentionally or as a result of biased policing practices. This could exacerbate 
existing inequalities and lead to further discrimination. 
Mitigation: The City, including EPAPD, values community trust and ensuring all 
members of our multicultural community are treated fairly and with respect. EPAPD 
has a long-established history of community building and establishing relationships 
with community members. The City’s use of ALPRs would not target any group, but 
would be used as an investigative tool to help solve crimes. The ALPR camera does 
not identify any individual or access their personal information through its analysis 
of license plate numbers. The data captured by the ALPR system is completely 
anonymous. There is no personally identifiable information (PII) contained in an 
ALPR record and the authorized user can only determine the registered owner of a 
vehicle by querying a separate law enforcement DMV database of vehicle license 
plate records, which is restricted, controlled, and audited. 
 
7. Erosion of Anonymity: ALPRs contribute to the erosion of anonymity in public 
spaces, making it increasingly difficult for individuals to move about without being 
tracked.  
Mitigation: Cell phones, private security cameras, private ALPRs, and many other 
technologies diminish public anonymity.  The City’s use of ALPRs would only be 
used as a law enforcement tool in response to legitimate law enforcement purposes 
such as criminal cases or investigations.  
Proposed One-Year Pilot Program Using Flock ALPR Technology 
Staff believes that ALPR technology would be a beneficial police investigative tool, and 
that it can be deployed and managed strategically to mitigate concerns that people may 
have.  To determine if ALPR Technology, specifically Flock, would be a viable investigative 
tool for the East Palo Alto community, the Police Chief convened a meeting of the Chief’s 
Advisory Team, a body consisting of six (6) community members representing different 
generations and backgrounds.  The team received a presentation from Flock then 
engaged in a question-and-answer period with Flock and department personnel.  These 
community members raised many of the concerns which have been discussed above.   
Ultimately, the Advisory Team felt a one-year trial period with Flock would give our 
community an opportunity to assess the benefits of the technology as well as the extent of 
privacy concerns. During this pilot period, the Police Department would provide quarterly 
updates to the City Council that describe the Department’s use of the technology and any 
complaints the City may have received. At the end of the pilot program, staff would seek

--- page 8 ---
POLICY AND ACTION X.X 
council direction on whether to continue use of ALPR technology in East Palo Alto.  
Sole Source Acquisition of Flock Technology for Pilot Program 
 
Staff recommends that the City waive formal bidding and proceed with a sole-source 
procurement for Flock technology for a number of reasons.  1) Flock technology is used by 
many agencies in neighboring jurisdictions, as well as private entities in East Palo Alto 
including the retail center, which allows the City to receive and share information with other 
jurisdictions, expanding the tools investigative capacity.  This functionality would be 
optimized if the City used Flock technology given the nature of the software and 
prevalence of use by neighboring jurisdictions. As such, staff believes this provides an 
unique capability that other technologies would not provide. 2) The Chief’s community 
advisory team has previewed Flock technology and provided feedback which has shaped 
the Department’s approach toward its use, described above, including opinions about 
privacy concerns. 3.) Flock technology is being proposed on a pilot basis, thereby 
alleviating concerns about robust procurement. 
More about Flock Technology 
Flock Safety (Flock) began its technology company in 2017 as a more efficient and less 
expensive alternative to the ALPR technology available at the time. The company quickly 
grew in capability and coverage, and over the past several years, ALPR cameras using 
Flock have become vital law enforcement investigative resources throughout the San 
Francisco Bay Area.  Flock’s closed network of 80+ Bay Area law enforcement agencies 
creates a robust database of shared information that greatly expands each law 
enforcement agency’s investigative ability.  The City can only access this closed database 
through the use of Flock technology.  Access to this database is only available to Flock 
customers. 
In fact, Flock’s technology is consistently used by other agencies throughout the Bay Area 
to locate and apprehend wanted vehicles and subjects in connection with violent crimes 
that occurred in East Palo Alto, when their vehicles had been entered into the wanted 
vehicle system.   
Fixed Flock ALPR cameras are designed to photograph the rear of vehicles passing in 
camera view.  The photos are stored on the Flock server for a period determined by the 
client.  In our case, staff is seeking a retention period of 30 days.  Flock’s technology reads 
the individual license plate numbers and allows users to search for license plate numbers 
or vehicle descriptions in a particular location when needed for criminal 
investigations.  Additionally, Flock technology uses "fingerprint" technology that can track a 
vehicle based on unique characteristics (bumper stickers, roof racks, etc)  and movements 
like which cameras the car is hitting off of. At the conclusion of 30 days, the photo and 
license plate number would be automatically and permanently deleted from the 
server.  Essentially, Flock’s technology is a searchable temporary database containing 
photos of the back of vehicles.  Flock’s technology is incapable of conducting DMV queries 
of license plates.  Investigators accessing Flock must conduct separate searches through

--- page 9 ---
POLICY AND ACTION X.X 
existing databases to determine more information about the registered owner. 
Personnel who access the Flock system would be assigned individual access accounts 
with built in audit trails to document use of the technology to curb abuse.  To access Flock 
data, users are required to enter the case number assigned to their criminal investigation.  
If the Flock query resulted in evidence of a crime, the data can be downloaded as 
evidence and attached to the criminal investigation.   
Flock allows data to be shared with partner agencies on a case-by-case basis.  All users 
must follow the same access rules.  Violations of the rules can result in agencies being 
suspended from accessing the data. 
Flock offers a transparency portal for each agency on their website which shows updated 
information including how many vehicles had been scanned, how many wanted vehicle 
hits, and how many queries had been conducted.  The East Palo Alto Police Department 
will make the link to the portal accessible on our website. 
Flock prohibits the use of any ALPR data to be used for immigration purposes.  
Additionally, California law prohibits law enforcement agencies from sharing data with 
agencies outside the State of California.  Further, data collected by the Flock system is 
owned by the client, and never sold. 
 
  
Fiscal Impact  
  
 
The installation of 25 fixed ALPRs will require an initial expense of $82,750 for one year of 
service. While this item was not included in the Fiscal Year 2024-2025 police department 
budget, sufficient savings within the budget are available to cover the cost, eliminating the 
need for any additional appropriation.  
 
Staff is recommending a one-year subscription to Flock Technology, during which staff 
would evaluate the effectiveness of the ALPR technology.  Prior to the completion of the 
year subscription, staff will report to City Council on the effectiveness of the technology 
and either seek council authority to issue an RFP for ALPR technology, enter a longer-
term contract with Flock, or terminate the use of ALPR technology.   
  
Public Notice  
  
The public was provided notice of this agenda item by posting the City Council agenda on the 
City’s official bulletin outside City Hall and making the agenda and report available at the City’s 
website and the San Mateo County Library at 2415 University Avenue.  
  
Environmental 
 
The action being considered does not constitute a “Project” within the meaning of the California

--- page 10 ---
POLICY AND ACTION X.X 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), pursuant to CEQA Guideline section 15378 (b)(5), in that it is 
a government administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect changes in the 
environment. 
 
 
Government Code § 84308   
   
Applicability of Levine Act: No, as the proposed action does not involve an entitlement.    
  
Analysis of Levine Act Compliance: Not applicable.  
 
 
 
Attachments  
 
1. Flock Safety quote 
2. Resolution 
3. Draft Lexipol ALPR Policy

--- annotations ---
p1 [Tomohito Oku]: Will this contract replace the existing security contract (including surveillance cameras) with Johnson Control?
p1 [Jeff Liu]: This just gives Melvin the authority to install cameras as he sees the need.  This should not impact any contracts.
p1 [Tomohito Oku]: @Jeff Liu will there be 2 separate contracts, one for surveillance cameras and the other for license plate reader?
p1 [Jeff Liu]: This is correct.  Two very different types of systems.
p1 [John Le]: So, the surveillance cameras don't require an RFP? Do we own them already?If using Juganu, do we need to amend the contract?
p1 [Melvin Gaines]: At this point, we aren’t asking for approval for installation at a specific location, just policy approval to have cameras.
p1 [John Le]: Okay. Wonder if we should ask for approval when we have a vendor in mind.
p1 [John Le]: Not sure why approval is needed now. Just curious.
p1 [Melvin Gaines]: Locations to be defined when council approves a contract with a responsive bidder.
p1 [Jeff Liu]: I need to add language about integrating with the Flock network of law enforcement agencies, which gives us an exponentially larger data pool to search for criminal investigations.  Without the Flock network, we would only be able to search against whatever data we collect.
p1 [John Le]: so who is installing? what is the cost? did we do procurement?
p1 [Jeff Liu]: This is intended to give the CM the authority to install cameras as needed.  It's not project specific.
p1 [John Le]: Right. But how are we paying for it?
p3 [John Le]: might be overselling it here. i would talk about investigation benefits. we don't know if presence of cameras deters crime.
p3 [Jeff Liu]: Good point.  I changed the language.  I think this point will be better received.
p3 [John Le]: this sentence seems contradicted by the previous sentence, but made some changes to help it hang together.
p5 [Melvin Gaines]: @John Le , is this ok to say, considering the family filed a claim against the city?
p5 [Melvin Gaines]: @John Le I don’t know if you missed this comment.  Please advise if we should soften this.
p6 [John Le]: Are our HR or personnel policies up to speed so we can make this statement?
p6 [Jeff Liu]: Abuse of the system would fall under policy 319, which included dishonesty and conduct unbecoming.
p6 [John Le]: your response should center on what protections Flock has on the back end. this could be addressed if we RFP'ed it out. we could grade responders on their ability to protect against a hack.
p6 [John Le]: what assurances do they have if we don't have such a policy?
p6 [Jeff Liu]: We would ensure the language is in our contract if approved right?
p7 [John Le]: you will want to discuss any policies we have currently (e.g., LexiPol) and if not state that it will be added if the council agrees to use Flock or similar tec.
p8 [Melvin Gaines]: All of this can be replaced with language asking to release an RFP if you don’t provide support for a sole source.
p8 [John Le]: Does Flock's tech allow a vehicle to be flagged if it doesn't have a license plate visible?What does it do with LPs placed on the dash or rear windows?
p8 [Jeff Liu]: Flock technology uses "fingerprint" technology that can track a vehicle based on unique characteristics (bumper stickers, roof racks, etc)  and movements like which cameras the car is hitting off of.
p9 [John Le]: what about equipment cost? is it a lease? we don't own, right?
p9 [Jeff Liu]: This is an all inclusive service.  We will not own the equipment or be responsible for the maintenance of the equipment in the event it is damaged or vandalized.  We may be responsible for replacement if a camera is stolen though.
p9 [Melvin Gaines]: @Jeff Liu is this budgeted?
p9 [Tomohito Oku]: This was not budgeted but Jeff wants to use salary savings. I have added the language for that
p9 [Tomohito Oku]: How much is this one-year subscription to Flock?
p9 [Jeff Liu]: The $82,750 covers the first year.  Subsequent years, the cost will go down as there will not be installation costs.
p9 [Jeff Liu]: Can we cover the first year with the salary savings the PD has amassed so far this fiscal year?
p9 [Tomohito Oku]: Yes. When we take the contract to  Council we should mention it
p9 [Jeff Liu]: Sounds good.  Thank you.