--- page 1 ---
Policy
428
East Palo Alto Police Department
East Palo Alto Police Department
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2024/12/17, All Rights Reserved.
Published with permission by East Palo Alto Police
Department
Automated License Plate Readers (ALPRs) - 1
Automated License Plate Readers (ALPRs)
428.1   PURPOSE AND SCOPE
The purpose of this policy is to provide guidance for the capture, storage and use of digital data
obtained through the use of Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) technology.
428.2   ADMINISTRATION
The ALPR technology, also known as License Plate Recognition (LPR), allows for the automated
detection of license plates. It is used by the East Palo Alto Police Department to convert data
associated with vehicle license plates for official law enforcement purposes, including identifying
stolen or wanted vehicles, stolen license plates and missing persons. It may also be used to
gather information related to active warrants, homeland security, electronic surveillance, suspect
interdiction and stolen property recovery.
All installation and maintenance of ALPR equipment, as well as ALPR data retention and
access, shall be managed by the Administration Division Commander. The Administration Division
Commander will assign members under his/her command to administer the day-to-day operation
of the ALPR equipment and data.
428.2.1   ALPR ADMINISTRATOR
The Administration Division Commander shall be responsible for developing guidelines and
procedures to comply with the requirements of Civil Code § 1798.90.5 et seq. This includes, but
is not limited to (Civil Code § 1798.90.51; Civil Code § 1798.90.53):
(a)
A description of the job title or other designation of the members and independent
contractors who are authorized to use or access the ALPR system or to collect ALPR
information.
(b)
Training requirements for authorized users.
(c)
A description of how the ALPR system will be monitored to ensure the security of the
information and compliance with applicable privacy laws.
(d)
Procedures for system operators to maintain records of access in compliance with
Civil Code § 1798.90.52.
(e)
The title and name of the current designee in overseeing the ALPR operation.
(f)
Working with the Custodian of Records on the retention and destruction of ALPR data.
(g)
Ensuring this policy and related procedures are conspicuously posted on the
department's website.
428.3   OPERATIONS
Use of an ALPR is restricted to the purposes outlined below. Department members shall not use,
or allow others to use the equipment or database records for any unauthorized purpose (Civil
Code § 1798.90.51; Civil Code § 1798.90.53).
(a)
An ALPR shall only be used for official law enforcement business.

--- page 2 ---
East Palo Alto Police Department
East Palo Alto Police Department
Automated License Plate Readers (ALPRs)
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2024/12/17, All Rights Reserved.
Published with permission by East Palo Alto Police
Department
Automated License Plate Readers (ALPRs) - 2
(b)
An ALPR may be used in conjunction with any routine patrol operation or criminal
investigation. Reasonable suspicion or probable cause is not required before using
an ALPR.
(c)
No member of this department shall access ALPR data without first completing
department-approved training.
(d)
Members shall only use their assigned account to access the ALPR system.
(e)
Members shall enter a valid case number/incident number and/or valid justification for
search when conducting a query.
(f)
Members not providing an acceptable entry of the REASON for their ALPR query will
result in a suspension of their access to the database and will be documented in a
record of discussion and the possibility of progressive discipline. Remedial training
is required for re-instated access. This is the single most important entry when
querying the ALPR database because California Civil Code 1798.90.52 states you
shall provide your justification for your query.
(g)
When the ALPR is used as part of an investigation, the member shall document the
details in the narrative portion of the report AND select the "ALPR" option in the Special
Circumstances dropdown menu.
(h)
The following use of the ALPR system are specifically prohibited: harassment,
intimidation, personal use, or immigration enforcement.
(i)
No ALPR operator may access department, state or federal data unless otherwise
authorized to do so.
(j)
The officer should verify an ALPR response through the California Law Enforcement
Telecommunications System (CLETS) before taking enforcement action that is based
solely on an ALPR alert.
(k)
Violations of this policy may result in disciplinary action in accordance with East Palo
Alto Police Department policy 319.
428.4   DATA COLLECTION AND RETENTION
The Administration Division Commander is responsible for ensuring systems and processes are
in place for the proper collection and retention of ALPR data.
All ALPR data downloaded to the server will be stored for a maximum of 30 days. Thereafter, ALPR
data willbe purged unless it has become, or it is reasonable to believe it will become, evidence
in a criminal or civil action or is subject to a discovery request or other lawful action to produce
records. In those circumstances the applicable data should be downloaded from the server onto
portable media and booked into evidence.
All data and images gathered by an ALPR are for the official use of the East Palo Alto Police
Department and because such data contains confidential information, it is not open to public
review.
The Police Chief (or designee) will present a summary of East Palo Alto Police use of the ALPR
technology on a quarterly basis.

--- page 3 ---
East Palo Alto Police Department
East Palo Alto Police Department
Automated License Plate Readers (ALPRs)
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2024/12/17, All Rights Reserved.
Published with permission by East Palo Alto Police
Department
Automated License Plate Readers (ALPRs) - 3
428.5   ACCOUNTABILITY
All data will be closely safeguarded and protected by both procedural and technological means.
The East Palo Alto Police Department will observe the following safeguards regarding access to
and use of stored data (Civil Code § 1798.90.51; Civil Code § 1798.90.53):
(a)
All ALPR data shall be accessible only through a login/password-protected system
capable of documenting all access of information by name, date and time (Civil
Code § 1798.90.52).
(b)
Members approved to access ALPR data under these guidelines are permitted to
access the data for legitimate law enforcement purposes only, such as when the data
relate to a specific criminal investigation or department-related civil or administrative
action.
(c)
Violations of this policy may result in disciplinary action in accordance with East Palo
Alto Police Department policy 319.
(d)
ALPR system audits will be conducted on a monthly basis.
For security or data breaches, see the Records Release and Maintenance Policy.
428.6   TRAINING
The Training Officer shall ensure that members receive department-approved training for those
authorized to use or access the ALPR system (Civil Code § 1798.90.51; Civil Code § 1798.90.53).
428.7   POLICY
The policy of the East Palo Alto Police Department is to utilize ALPR technology to capture and
store digital license plate data and images while recognizing the established privacy rights of the
public.
All data and images gathered by the ALPR are for the official use of this department. Because
such data may contain confidential information, it is not open to public review.
428.8   RELEASING ALPR DATA
Requests for ALPR data by non-law enforcement or non-prosecutorial agencies will be processed
as provided in the Records Maintenance and Release Policy (Civil Code § 1798.90.55).