--- page 1 ---
Date: Mon, 12 Jan 2026 10:48:44 PM (UTC)

Sent: Mon, 12 Jan 2026 10:48:43 PM (UTC)

Subject: Re: Question

From: Stephan Casazza <casazza@cityofsanmateo.org >
To: Tiffani Scates <tiffani.scates@flocksafety.com >;

Great- thank you for the update. Hopefully that will alleviate the problem. | appreciate you looking into this for
me.

Thanks,

Steve Casazza

From: Tiffani Scates <tiffani.scates@flocksafety.com >
Sent: Thursday, January 8, 2026 4:36 PM

To: Stephan Casazza <casazza@cityofsanmateo.org >
Subject: Re: Question

Good afternoon Lt.,

After connecting with our product team I was able to confirm what you’re seeing is mostly tied to older
versions of the Flock mobile app. Those older builds don’t consistently enforce the offense type field the same
way the current experience does, which is why some searches are still coming through with “investigation”
only and no offense code or case number.

To close that gap, our mobile team is rolling out a required mobile app update that removes these legacy paths
and brings mobile fully in line with the current search-reason requirements. They’re finalizing the work now
and plan to start notifying agencies as early as next week, with the new version becoming mandatory shortly
thereafter. Once that update is in place and in use across your agency, officers will no longer be able to submit
searches without the required offense information.

Please let me know if you want to schedule time to discuss further!

Thanks.
Tiffani

On Wed, Jan 7, 2026 at 5:02 PM Stephan Casazza <casazza@cityofsanmateo.org > wrote:
Hi Tiffany-

Below is a picture of one of many that | found from other agenceis:

From: Tiffani Scates <tiffani.scates@flocksafety.com >
Sent: Wednesday, January 7,2026 2:45 PM

To: Stephan Casazza <casazza(@cityofsanmateo.org >
Subject: Re: Question

Good afternoon sir,
Can you provide me specific examples of these events? Screenshots would be helpful. Typically when we see
this, it is users that have not updated their Flock app recently. Once I have some additional details I can have

our team dig in for you!

Best,
Tiffani

On Wed, Jan 7, 2026 at 2:18 PM Stephan Casazza <casazza@cityofsanmateo.org > wrote:
‘Hi Tiffany-


--- page 2 ---
I am conducting a monthly audit of our network sharing and see that some agencies are still just listing "invest"
or "investigation" as their search reason with no offense code or case number although it says it is required. 
Do you know if that is a glitch with the system or that officers are able to override it?  I thought as of December
1st you were required to list an offense code to avoid having agencies just list "investigation" with nothing else.
  Are you able to answer this?
Thank you, 
Lieutenant Steve Casazza
San Mateo Police Department
Patrol Division B-Team- Area 2
200 Franklin Parkway
San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7663
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is
intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that
any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this
message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this
message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.
--
Tiffani Scates
Customer Success Manager
 (702)286-4904  
 flocksafety.com
 Tiffani.Scates@FlockSafety.com
 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is
intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that
any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this
message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this
message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.
--
Tiffani Scates
Customer Success Manager
 (702)286-4904  
 flocksafety.com
 Tiffani.Scates@FlockSafety.com

--- page 3 ---
DI
