--- page 1 ---
27 NEWS:
Download Our Apps
27 Storm Track Interactive Radar
Check the 27 Storm Track Forecast
https://www.wkow.com/news/fitchburg-common-council-votes-to-end-flock-safety-camera-
contact/article_d86e071f-51dd-4c33-9907-bb0e388a2b6d.html
Fitchburg Common Council votes to end Flock Safety camera
contact
Jake Eichstaedt
May 27, 2026
File photo
FITCHBURG, Wis. (WKOW) -- The Common Council of Fitchburg voted unanimously
Tuesday to discontinue its contract with Flock Safety and the use of the traffic
cameras.
Flock Safety cameras help local police locate suspects or missing persons by
identifying a vehicle's make and model. According to their website, has helped locate
more than 10,000 missing people in the last year, had their technology used in over 1

--- page 2 ---
Jake Eichstaedt
Anchor
Jake Eichstaedt comes to the WKOW 27 News team after working a plethora of positions in other
newsrooms. Beginning in Texas and moving to North Carolina, his broadcast experience range includes
reporting, producing, directing, photogging, sports reporting, hosting, anchoring and even selling ad space.
Although he can wear many hats, he is excited to instead comb his hair to be behind the anchor desk.
million court cases, and were operating in 12,000 communities nationwide.
However, residents spoke for nearly 45 minutes before the vote, voicing concerns of
privacy and how accessible data from the cameras is to outside agencies.
The fight against Flock transcends Fitchburg: In 2026 alone, Dane County ended their
contract with Flock, going against the county's Sheriff, Kalvin Barrett's concerns; and
UW-Madison academic staff also oppose of the university's use of the plate reader
cameras. Many other communities in Wisconsin have made the same decision
recently, like Verona, Appleton, and Oshkosh. Just this month, there are accusations of
law enforcement misusing the technology to spy on a former romantic interest. That
officer has pleaded not guilty, but did resign form the Milwaukee Police Department.