City of Verona votes to not renew Flock cameras | News | wkow.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Facebook Twitter Bluesky YouTube Instagram Site search Search Sign Up Log In Dashboard Logout My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Home Search News Election Results Latest News State News National News Politics Crime Digging Deeper Wake Up Wisconsin Economy Education Climate Change Race for Governor Entertainment Weather Latest Weather Interactive Radar Submit School Closings and Delays School Closings and Delays 27 Traffic Tracker Alert Room Map Room Radar Room Forecast and Conditions Car Wash Forecast WKOW's 4 Degree Guarantee Rain Totals Weather Photos Weather Cameras Sports Latest Sports Badgers Packers Brewers WIAA Sports Live High School Sports Watch WKOW Live Streaming Video TV Listings 27.1 ABC Network 27.2 Catchy Comedy 27.3 ThisTV 27.4 Court TV 27.5 True Crime ABC News livestream Watch ABC Discover Wisconsin Video On Demand YouTube TV Apps Live it Up! with Lee & Friends Recipes The American Athlete Pet of the Week Things To Do Community Calendar Contests Deals Contact WKOW Directory Meet the WKOW Team WKOW History Sign up for Email Alerts Our Apps Careers At WKOW Advertise with WKOW Toggle navigation Menu Site search Search 62° Menu Search Open user controls Log In Using Your Account Log In Don't have an account? Sign Up Today My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Facebook Twitter Bluesky YouTube Instagram News Weather Sports Watch Video Things To Do Contests Contact 27 News: Download Our Apps 27 Storm Track Interactive Radar Check the 27 Storm Track Forecast City of Verona votes to not renew Flock cameras Faryn Cramer Faryn Cramer Faryn joined the 27 News team as a newscast producer in 2025. She is from Waunakee and previously worked in communications in the Office of Crime Victim Services . She is a graduate of UW-Madison with degrees in Communications Arts and Spanish. Author email Nov 11, 2025 Nov 11, 2025 Updated Nov 11, 2025 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save VERONA, Wis. (WKOW) — The City of Verona Common Council has voted against renewing contracts for police data-collecting cameras known as Flock cameras. There are three Flock cameras in Verona that collect data such as vehicle makes, models, and license plates to assist police in identifying suspects. However, residents have expressed concerns about data security, potential federal government access, and the risk of technological misuse. "Data this valuable will be targeted by hackers," said one speaker. "Once your movement history is exposed, there's no getting it back. The safest measure is to simply never have this data collected in the first place." Police have highlighted the success of Flock cameras in locating offenders, and added that they have used license plate recognition technology for more than a decade. They assured the council that Flock data is only stored for 30 days and measures are in place to ensure its safety. "We've opted out of sharing data with federal agencies," said Verona Police Chief David Dresser. "We understand the concerns there. We have revoked automatic access to our data from out-of-state agencies to address some of the privacy concerns." The council's decision means the contracts for the cameras will not be renewed. Police noted these contracts are set to expire in April and July of 2026. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Faryn Cramer Faryn joined the 27 News team as a newscast producer in 2025. She is from Waunakee and previously worked in communications in the Office of Crime Victim Services . She is a graduate of UW-Madison with degrees in Communications Arts and Spanish. Author email Follow Faryn Cramer Around the Web More From 27 News News Bestselling author James Patterson tells UW-Madison grads 'you are worthy' at commencement Updated 1 hr ago News Nerd Made Madison hosts second annual 'May the Fourth' market Updated 1 hr ago News Alliant Energy Center introduces Madison kids to construction career paths Updated 1 hr ago News High-speed chase ends with car launching over street in Fond du Lac County 6 hrs ago Forecast Cloudy start, then sunny afternoon 11 hrs ago Top Stories Flame-throwing Misiorowski strikes out 11 as Brewers blank Yankees 6-0 Updated 9 hrs ago Recommended for you News Gov. Evers, First Lady celebrate Kwanzaa in Wisconsin Criminal Law Former U.S. Postal Service employee sentenced for stealing rebate checks Politics First Lady Jill Biden to visit Milwaukee, Waukesha State news Gov. Tony Evers, First Lady Kathy Evers wish Wisconsin a happy Thanksgiving Subscribe Now! Facebook Twitter Bluesky YouTube Instagram Sections News Coronavirus Weather Sports Watch Video Things To Do Contact Services Search Careers Advertise with WKOW FCC Public File EEO Report Closed Captioning FCC Applications Advertiser Services PSA Policy AI Usage Policy × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 Allen Media Broadcasting , 5727 Tokay Boulevard, Madison, WI | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital .