Fitchburg Common Council votes to end Flock Safety camera contact | News | wkow.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Facebook Twitter Bluesky YouTube Instagram Site search Search Sign Up Log In Dashboard Logout My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Home Search News Election Results Latest News State News National News Politics Crime Digging Deeper Wake Up Wisconsin Economy Education Climate Change Race for Governor Entertainment Weather Latest Weather Interactive Radar Submit School Closings and Delays School Closings and Delays 27 Traffic Tracker Alert Room Map Room Radar Room Forecast and Conditions Car Wash Forecast WKOW's 4 Degree Guarantee Rain Totals Weather Photos Weather Cameras Sports Latest Sports Badgers Packers Brewers WIAA Sports Live High School Sports Watch WKOW Live Streaming Video TV Listings 27.1 ABC Network 27.2 Catchy Comedy 27.3 ThisTV 27.4 Court TV 27.5 True Crime ABC News livestream Watch ABC Discover Wisconsin Video On Demand YouTube TV Apps Live it Up! with Lee & Friends Recipes The American Athlete Pet of the Week 'Come Here, Brother Wolf' airing Memorial Day Things To Do Community Calendar Contests Deals Contact WKOW Directory Meet the WKOW Team WKOW History Sign up for Email Alerts Our Apps Careers At WKOW Advertise with WKOW Toggle navigation Menu Site search Search 67° Menu Search Open user controls Log In Using Your Account Log In Don't have an account? Sign Up Today My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Facebook Twitter Bluesky YouTube Instagram News Weather Sports Watch Video Things To Do Contests Contact 27 News: Download Our Apps 27 Storm Track Interactive Radar Check the 27 Storm Track Forecast Fitchburg Common Council votes to end Flock Safety camera contact Jake Eichstaedt Jake Eichstaedt Anchor Jake Eichstaedt comes to the WKOW 27 News team after working a plethora of positions in other newsrooms. Beginning in Texas and moving to North Carolina, his broadcast experience range includes reporting, producing, directing, photogging, sports reporting, hosting, anchoring and even selling ad space. Although he can wear many hats, he is excited to instead comb his hair to be behind the anchor desk. Author facebook Author twitter Author email May 27, 2026 May 27, 2026 Updated 3 hrs ago Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email File photo Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save FITCHBURG, Wis. (WKOW) -- The Common Council of Fitchburg voted unanimously Tuesday to discontinue its contract with Flock Safety and the use of the traffic cameras. Flock Safety cameras help local police locate suspects or missing persons by identifying a vehicle's make and model. According to their website, has helped locate more than 10,000 missing people in the last year, had their technology used in over 1 million court cases, and were operating in 12,000 communities nationwide. However, residents spoke for nearly 45 minutes before the vote, voicing concerns of privacy and how accessible data from the cameras is to outside agencies. The fight against Flock transcends Fitchburg: In 2026 alone, Dane County ended their contract with Flock, going against the county's Sheriff, Kalvin Barrett's concerns ; and UW-Madison academic staff also oppose of the university's use of the plate reader cameras . Many other communities in Wisconsin have made the same decision recently, like Verona , Appleton , and Oshkosh . Just this month, there are accusations of law enforcement misusing the technology to spy on a former romantic interest. That officer has pleaded not guilty, but did resign form the Milwaukee Police Department. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Jake Eichstaedt Anchor Jake Eichstaedt comes to the WKOW 27 News team after working a plethora of positions in other newsrooms. Beginning in Texas and moving to North Carolina, his broadcast experience range includes reporting, producing, directing, photogging, sports reporting, hosting, anchoring and even selling ad space. Although he can wear many hats, he is excited to instead comb his hair to be behind the anchor desk. Author facebook Author twitter Author email Follow Jake Eichstaedt Around the Web More From 27 News Forecast Another chance at some showers before dry trend takes over 2 hrs ago News Fitchburg Common Council votes to end Flock Safety camera contact Updated 3 hrs ago News Wisconsin-born artist selected to create outdoor sculpture for Madison's first park-based library Updated 8 hrs ago News Janesville City Council approves downtown outdoor drinking ordinance Updated 9 hrs ago News Middleton 8th grader makes history as first from his district at Scripps National Spelling Bee Updated 9 hrs ago Top Stories Emergency declared on Delta flight from Madison after co-pilot passes out Updated 3 hrs ago Recommended for you News Sun Prairie duplex unit considered total loss after fire, no one hurt Criminal Law Former U.S. Postal Service employee sentenced for stealing rebate checks News All lanes of westbound Beltline reopen after crash near Todd Drive News Gov. Evers, First Lady celebrate Kwanzaa in Wisconsin Subscribe Now! Facebook Twitter Bluesky YouTube Instagram Sections News Coronavirus Weather Sports Watch Video Things To Do Contact Services Search Careers Advertise with WKOW FCC Public File EEO Report Closed Captioning FCC Applications Advertiser Services PSA Policy AI Usage Policy × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 Allen Media Broadcasting , 5727 Tokay Boulevard, Madison, WI | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital .