Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock
San Mateo CA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Mon Aug 24 2026

Overview

San Mateo CA PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. San Mateo CA PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, San Mateo CA PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

66

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

876,403

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

4,203

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to San Mateo CA PD data.

Belmont CA PD
Brisbane CA PD
California Highway Patrol
Foster City CA PD
Palo Alto CA PD
South San Francisco CA PD
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by San Mateo CA PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harrassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV
More Info

Policy Documents

San Mateo PD Full Policy Manual can be found at the following link: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/79089/San-Mateo-PD-Policy-Manual




ALPR Policy

https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/99914/ALPR-Policy-12-23-2025

SOP

https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/102451/Automated-License-Plate-Reader-Operating-Procedure

Provided by Flock Safety