Do Flock cameras actually reduce crime? The jury is still out. - Institute for Justice Skip to content Toggle navigation Submit a Case Give Now Menu Issues All Issues Private Property IJ defends the right of all Americans to own and enjoy their property free from unjust seizures, searches, and fines. First Amendment IJ fights for the right to speak freely about the issues that matter most to ordinary people and to defend the free flow of information essential to democratic government and free enterprise. Educational Choice IJ stands for the idea that every child deserves a chance at a great education and that all parents, regardless of means, should enjoy the freedom to direct their children’s education. Economic Liberty IJ believes that all people have the right to earn an honest living in the occupation of their choice without arbitrary, unnecessary, or protectionist government interference. Projects End Forfeiture Initiative Food Freedom Initiative Project on Immunity and Accountability Project on the Fourth Amendment Education Entrepreneurship Zoning Justice Project Cases Pennsylvania Hybrid School Recent Cases IJ is in court nationwide defending individual liberty. Check out some of our latest cases. U.S. Supreme Court Cases We fight for our clients at every level of the legal system, and we’ve been to the U.S. Supreme Court 13 times to date. Hearings Tune in to hear IJ advocates defending our clients’ rights Amicus Briefs IJ occasionally participates in cases that we aren’t litigating, but that have important implications for our mission. Complete Case List A look at every case we have filed, past and present. What We Do Litigation IJ files cutting-edge constitutional cases in state and federal courts to defend the rights of our clients and set legal precedent that protects countless others like them. Research IJ produces one-of-a-kind, high-quality research to enhance our effectiveness in court, educate the public, and shape public debate around our key issues. Legislation IJ provides principled advocacy and issue-area expertise to support legislation that expands individual liberty and protects vital constitutional rights. Activism IJ trains and mobilizes the public to be advocates for freedom and justice in their own communities. Media August 2026 Volume 35, Issue 4 News & Updates Get the latest on IJ’s cases and activities. Press Releases Breaking news from IJ, including case updates. Letters & Statements Read the latest warnings IJ has issued to government officials for their unconstitutional actions. Podcasts Listen to IJ attorneys and guests discuss the freedom, justice, and the law. IJ in the News Highlights of news outlets’ coverage of IJ’s work. Liberty & Law Magazine Read about IJ’s most important work with stories directly from the people in the trenches. Videos See our clients talk about their experiences and learn how we are fighting for their rights—and yours. Support IJ Support the Institute for Justice IJ represents our clients at no cost to them—and when we win, we secure precedent that protects the rights of all Americans. Ways to Support IJ Donate Online Donate Stock Monthly Giving Partners Club Donate through your IRA Planned Gifts Additional Ways to Give About Us About Us Staff Contact Us Careers Working at IJ Students Attorney Pathways at IJ Events & Speakers Honors and Accolades State Offices Financial Reports Board of Directors Search Search Search Issues All Issues Private Property First Amendment Educational Choice Economic Liberty Projects End Forfeiture Initiative Food Freedom Initiative Project on Immunity and Accountability Project on the Fourth Amendment Education Entrepreneurship Zoning Justice Project Cases Recent Cases U.S. Supreme Court Cases Hearings Amicus Briefs Complete Case List What We Do Litigation Research Legislation Activism IJ Clinic on Entrepreneurship Center for Judicial Engagement Short Circuit Media News & Updates Press Releases Letters & Statements Podcasts IJ in the News Liberty & Law Magazine Videos Support IJ Support the Institute for Justice Ways to Support IJ Donate Online Donate Stock Monthly Giving Partners Club Donate through your IRA Planned Gifts Additional Ways to Give About Us About Us Staff Contact Us Careers Working at IJ Students Attorney Pathways at IJ Events & Speakers Honors and Accolades State Offices Financial Reports Board of Directors Search Search Menu Search Home Issues 4th Amendment Project 4th Amendment Project License Plate Readers September 17, 2026 Do Flock cameras actually reduce crime? The jury is still out. A recent study on how Flock cameras influence crime rates has limitations that prevent firm conclusions from being drawn. CI Christopher Ingraham cingraham@ij.org A Flock camera in Arlington, Virginia. A recent working paper by scholars at the University of South Carolina examined the impact of Flock Safety’s automated license plate readers (ALPRs) on car theft and car theft clearance rates. The study—the first of its kind—purports to show a reduction in car thefts and an increase in the clearance rate after Flock deployment. Flock issued a statement latching on to these findings as a validation of the technology at a time of massive public backlash . A closer look, however, reveals limitations in the study that suggest those claims are too strong. To add context and further inform public debate on the issue, the Institute for Justice (IJ) is releasing a new explainer on why the results should not be interpreted as showing that Flock ALPRs caused a decline in car thefts and increase in arrests. Clearance rates for car theft were increasing and car thefts were decreasing before ALPR deployment The working paper compares car theft and clearance rates in cities that deployed Flock ALPRs (the “treatment group”) with those that did not (the “control group”). It finds that ALPR deployment is associated with an 11% reduction in car theft and a 16% increase in car theft clearance rates. The problem is that trends in the treatment group were already heading in the right direction for both thefts and clearance rates before Flock deployment, when compared to the control group. The study uses a design that can show causal effects, but only if trends are similar in both groups. In this case, the trends differed significantly. That makes it hard to tell if changes after deployment resulted from Flock or something else. “Because there were already differences in arrests and theft trends before ALPR deployment, we don’t know if the differences after ALPR deployment were caused by ALPR deployment,” said IJ Senior Research Analyst Matthew West. The study’s authors acknowledge that the clearance rate result may be due to a “broader anti-theft initiative that included camera purchase”, among other possibilities. They note that the rise in clearance rates before ALPR deployment “prevents precise attribution to the cameras.” The headline result on car theft depends heavily on how the data are weighted The study only achieves its topline finding of an 11% reduction in car theft by weighting the results to favor agencies that had higher amounts of car theft before they installed ALPRs. If the data are instead averaged across all agencies (or weighted by population), the study finds no statistically significant change. This suggests, as the authors put it, that “the decline is concentrated in the jurisdictions” with more car thefts “rather than representing a uniform effect across adopting agencies”. Further muddying the picture, any effects are not even uniform among agencies that had high levels of car theft before Flock deployment—as most agencies that adopted Flock ALPRs did. On average, this group actually saw a statistically significant increase in thefts after Flock deployment. The upshot is that the topline 11% figure, even if causal, does not describe what happened in many if not most agencies that deployed Flock ALPRs. Social factors further complicate the analysis The study period included both the COVID-19 pandemic and the viral trend of Kia and Hyundai thefts. Both phenomena affected crime at different times, in different places, and in different ways, so it is difficult to isolate the effects of any given factor on car theft at a local level. If agencies adopted Flock when car theft was peaking locally, then a decline in cart theft could in part reflect things returning to normal instead of a drop in car theft from the installation of Flock ALPRs. “Flock and its supporters are trying to exploit fear of crime to convince people to give up their rights,” said IJ Attorney Michael Soyfer. “Notably absent from the conversation is the cost to civil liberties through mass surveillance, wrongful detentions, and widespread abuse. Only by reaffirming our commitment to Fourth Amendment principles like a warrant requirement can we ensure that we are not giving up more than we are getting in return.” The lack of those protections means ALPR technology can be easily abused, as IJ has documented hundreds of times . Our Plate Privacy Project is challenging the government’s arbitrary power to use ALPRs to surveil the entire driving public in court, with federal lawsuits filed against Norfolk and San Jose . We’ve drafted model legislation for policymakers aiming to reign in ALPR abuse and are tracking the hundreds of communities that have canceled their ALPR contracts in recent months. To dig deeper into the limitations of the data on ALPR deployment and crime, read the full explainer prepared by IJ’s Strategic Research team . Is Government Tracking Your Every Move? IJ is fighting to restore constitutional limits on surveillance — for every American. Submit a Case Support IJ Share About the Author CI Christopher Ingraham cingraham@ij.org Featured Case Related Case · Chicago, Illinois Chicago CBP Raid View the Case → Primary Issue IJ Issue Area 4th Amendment Project License Plate Readers › Open Fields Doctrine › Third Party Doctrine › Help IJ keep fighting for constitutional rights nationwide. $25 $50 $100 Other Give Now More on 4th Amendment Project 4th Amendment Project Institute for Justice Sounds Alarm on Smithtown Surveillance Christopher Ingraham · August 31, 2026 4th Amendment Project Three San Jose Residents File Federal Class Action Lawsuit Over City’s Mass Surveillance of Drivers Dan King · April 15, 2026 4th Amendment Project Atlanta Woman Sues Officers, U.S. Government for Wrongly Raiding Her Home in Search of Man Already in Jail Andrew Wimer · April 14, 2026 Stay Informed Sign up to receive IJ's biweekly digital magazine, Liberty & Law , along with breaking updates about our fight to protect the rights of all Americans. Name * First Last Email * Yes, I want a hard copy, too! Yes, send me the magazine by mail, too! Address * Street Address City State / Province Alabama Alaska American Samoa Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Guam Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Northern Mariana Islands Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah US Virgin Islands Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Europe Armed Forces Pacific State ZIP Code Please note we do not mail the magazine outside the United States except to APO/FPO addresses. Menu ABOUT US About Us Financial Reports Board of Directors State Offices Staff Careers Students Liberty & Law Contact Us WHAT WE DO Litigation Activism Research Legislation IJ Clinic on Entrepreneurship Center for Judicial Engagement CASES IJ’s Cases Supreme Court Cases Amicus Briefs Complete Case List ISSUES Economic Liberty Educational Choice Private Property First Amendment Immunity and Accountability MEDIA News and Updates IJ in the News Press Releases Liberty & Law Podcasts Short Circuit SUPPORT IJ Support IJ Donate Online Donate Stock Monthly Giving Donate Through Your IRA Planned Gifts Partners Club Guardians Circle Employer Matching Additional Ways to Give Search Submit a Case Give Now Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram TikTok 901 N. Glebe Road, Suite 900 Arlington, VA 22203 P: (703) 682 9320 © Institute for Justice 2026 IJ® is a registered trademark of the Institute for Justice. The Institute for Justice is a 501(c)(3) organization; donations are tax-deductible to the fullest extent of the law. IJ’s tax ID number is 52-1744337. Privacy Policy Wait