Dozens of Innocent Motorists Have Been Pulled Over, Detained at Gunpoint, or Jailed Due to AI License Plate Camera Errors - Institute for Justice Skip to content Toggle navigation Submit a Case Give Now Menu Issues All Issues Private Property IJ defends the right of all Americans to own and enjoy their property free from unjust seizures, searches, and fines. First Amendment IJ fights for the right to speak freely about the issues that matter most to ordinary people and to defend the free flow of information essential to democratic government and free enterprise. Educational Choice IJ stands for the idea that every child deserves a chance at a great education and that all parents, regardless of means, should enjoy the freedom to direct their children’s education. Economic Liberty IJ believes that all people have the right to earn an honest living in the occupation of their choice without arbitrary, unnecessary, or protectionist government interference. Projects End Forfeiture Initiative Food Freedom Initiative Project on Immunity and Accountability Project on the Fourth Amendment Education Entrepreneurship Zoning Justice Project Cases Pennsylvania Hybrid School Recent Cases IJ is in court nationwide defending individual liberty. Check out some of our latest cases. U.S. Supreme Court Cases We fight for our clients at every level of the legal system, and we’ve been to the U.S. Supreme Court 13 times to date. Hearings Tune in to hear IJ advocates defending our clients’ rights Amicus Briefs IJ occasionally participates in cases that we aren’t litigating, but that have important implications for our mission. Complete Case List A look at every case we have filed, past and present. What We Do Litigation IJ files cutting-edge constitutional cases in state and federal courts to defend the rights of our clients and set legal precedent that protects countless others like them. Research IJ produces one-of-a-kind, high-quality research to enhance our effectiveness in court, educate the public, and shape public debate around our key issues. Legislation IJ provides principled advocacy and issue-area expertise to support legislation that expands individual liberty and protects vital constitutional rights. Activism IJ trains and mobilizes the public to be advocates for freedom and justice in their own communities. Media August 2026 Volume 35, Issue 4 News & Updates Get the latest on IJ’s cases and activities. Press Releases Breaking news from IJ, including case updates. Letters & Statements Read the latest warnings IJ has issued to government officials for their unconstitutional actions. Podcasts Listen to IJ attorneys and guests discuss the freedom, justice, and the law. IJ in the News Highlights of news outlets’ coverage of IJ’s work. Liberty & Law Magazine Read about IJ’s most important work with stories directly from the people in the trenches. Videos See our clients talk about their experiences and learn how we are fighting for their rights—and yours. Support IJ Support the Institute for Justice IJ represents our clients at no cost to them—and when we win, we secure precedent that protects the rights of all Americans. Ways to Support IJ Donate Online Donate Stock Monthly Giving Partners Club Donate through your IRA Planned Gifts Additional Ways to Give About Us About Us Staff Contact Us Careers Working at IJ Students Attorney Pathways at IJ Events & Speakers Honors and Accolades State Offices Financial Reports Board of Directors Search Search Search Issues All Issues Private Property First Amendment Educational Choice Economic Liberty Projects End Forfeiture Initiative Food Freedom Initiative Project on Immunity and Accountability Project on the Fourth Amendment Education Entrepreneurship Zoning Justice Project Cases Recent Cases U.S. Supreme Court Cases Hearings Amicus Briefs Complete Case List What We Do Litigation Research Legislation Activism IJ Clinic on Entrepreneurship Center for Judicial Engagement Short Circuit Media News & Updates Press Releases Letters & Statements Podcasts IJ in the News Liberty & Law Magazine Videos Support IJ Support the Institute for Justice Ways to Support IJ Donate Online Donate Stock Monthly Giving Partners Club Donate through your IRA Planned Gifts Additional Ways to Give About Us About Us Staff Contact Us Careers Working at IJ Students Attorney Pathways at IJ Events & Speakers Honors and Accolades State Offices Financial Reports Board of Directors Search Search Menu Search Home Issues License Plate Readers 4th Amendment Project License Plate Readers July 1, 2026 Dozens of Innocent Motorists Have Been Pulled Over, Detained at Gunpoint, or Jailed Due to AI License Plate Camera Errors As the number of automated license plate readers (ALPRs) has skyrocketed nationwide, erroneous stops, detainments and arrests are becoming increasingly common. CI Christopher Ingraham cingraham@ij.org This article was updated on July 20, 2026 In February of this year, a Flock camera in Sherwood, Arkansas, misread the license plate of an SUV, leading officers to detain an innocent couple at gunpoint while their six-week-old baby sat alone in a car seat in the back of the vehicle. “Those cameras are placed everywhere, and they hit license plates,” one of the officers explained as they uncuffed the couple after realizing their error several minutes later. “I’m not gonna say they’re completely perfect, because, you know, that’s modern technology.” As the number of automated license plate readers (ALPRs) has skyrocketed nationwide, errors like this one are becoming increasingly common . An Institute for Justice (IJ) review of media reports and court records finds there have been at least 27 such cases since 2018, with the majority of those happening since 2023. What happens when innocent people are stopped In recent months, stories have proliferated about innocent motorists enduring the indignity of being pulled over repeatedly until police departments figure out the root cause of the ALPR errors. But those drivers have it relatively easy: in nearly two-thirds of the cases IJ analyzed, officers did not realize their error until after they had drawn and pointed their guns at innocent people. “Every one of those stops is a high-risk encounter where a wrong move, a misunderstanding, or a moment of fear can turn deadly,” said Michael Soyfer, an IJ attorney who is representing residents of San Jose and Norfolk in lawsuits challenging their cities’ ALPR surveillance networks. “No one should have to prove their innocence on the side of the road because a camera couldn’t tell a zero from an O.” The recent uptick in ALPR errors owes largely to Flock Safety, which in the past several years has become the leading ALPR provider in the market. The company claims its cameras accurately capture 93 out of every 100 license plates that pass by them. It all adds up to more than 20 billion individual license plate readings each month, according to Flock’s marketing materials . Even taking Flock’s claims at face value, a 93% accuracy rate implies well over one billion inaccurate readings per month, which is especially concerning given that the vast majority of plates scanned are not relevant to an investigation. Those machine errors happen for a variety of reasons. Minor obstructions like dirt or license plate holders can sometimes throw off the devices’ character recognition, for instance. And the machines often have trouble distinguishing between visually similar characters, like 0 and O, or 2 and 7. How human errors contribute But those machine errors account for about one-third of the mistakes in the cases IJ identified. The rest involved human error, with officers entering wrong information into the system or misinterpreting what the ALPR data says. Last year in San Diego , for instance, officers were searching for a red Alfa Romeo connected to an attempted carjacking. The officers didn’t have a plate and were instead relying on Flock’s “vehicle signature” technology, which captures detailed characteristics of individual cars like make, model, and color. The Flock system gave them a positive hit on a superficially matching car—but it was a totally different red Alfa Romeo, located five miles away from the crime at the time it occurred. Officers nevertheless arrested all three of the car’s occupants. One passenger spent nearly a month behind bars during the holidays before officers realized their error and set him free. In other cases, officers have entered multiple variations of the same license plate into the system, in part to account for ALPR character recognition errors. “The Constitution requires real suspicion before the government can seize someone at gunpoint, and a computer hit that no one bothered to confirm doesn’t come close,” Soyfer said. The list below includes only cases involving stationary ALPRs like Flock’s. Cases of mistaken identity involving vehicle-based ALPRs, traffic cameras, or toll cameras are not included. The review builds on previous efforts to tally ALPR errors, including those by CBS News and the Electronic Frontier Foundation . These 27 cases are most likely an undercount, perhaps by a significant margin. There is no comprehensive database of ALPR errors, and IJ has identified just one jurisdiction that publishes regular reports of such errors: Oak Park, Illinois. Those show that, in a typical reporting period , one-third or more of the traffic stops prompted by a Flock alert resulted in the drivers being released due to data problems. “There is no evidence whatsoever that Flock Safety ALPRs have played a meaningful role in any Oak Park crime investigation since their installation in 2022,” the oversight board publishing those reports concluded in 2025 . Oak Park ended its contract with Flock in August of that year. List of known Incidents 33 incidents shown Error Non Law-Enforcement Use Other Misuse Stalking + – Reset DeKalb County, Georgia Reidsville, North Carolina Brookfield, Wisconsin Auburn, Washington Scotts Bluff, Nebraska Plymouth, Minnesota Cherry Hills, Colorado Volusia County, Florida Sherwood, Arkansas Boulder County, Colorado San Diego, California Denver, Colorado Jefferson County, Colorado Redmond, Washington Cumberland, Rhode Island Lafayette, Indiana Morristown, Tennessee North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina Toledo, Ohio York County, South Carolina Sedgwick County, Kansas Detroit, Michigan Houston, Texas Espanola, New Mexico Espanola, New Mexico Fayetteville, North Carolina Jackson Township, Ohio Roseville, California Charlotte, North Carolina Greenville, South Carolina Atherton, California Aurora, Colorado Hercules, California Incident List DeKalb County, Georgia Date September 2026 Type Error Camera Flock A driver was wrongfully pulled over twice after Flock cameras incorrectly flagged her new car twice for purported insurance violations. Original source Reidsville, North Carolina Date August 2026 Type Error Camera Flock Reidsville resident Amadeus Purcell says police officers citing a Flock capture falsely accused him of reckless driving. Purcell was able to prove his innocence because he had a Wendy’s receipt in his car indicating he was not in the area of the offense when it occurred. Original source Brookfield, Wisconsin Date August 2026 Type Error Camera Flock Officers pulled over an innocent person with guns drawn after a Flock camera issued an alert for a vehicle that should not have been in the system. Original source Auburn, Washington Date July 2026 Type Error Camera Flock Auburn police used Flock cameras to track down a shooting suspect, but arrested the wrong man. Original source Scotts Bluff, Nebraska Date June 2026 Type Error Camera Flock Automobile journalist Tim Esterdahl was pulled over by police after misreading the license plate of a Range Rover test vehicle. Original source Plymouth, Minnesota Date June 2026 Type Error Camera Flock Plymouth police tracked a different automobile writer for days and then detained him and his wife in a Kohl’s parking lot after a similar misread issue involving a Range Rover test vehicle. Original source Cherry Hills, Colorado Date April 2026 Type Error Camera Flock A Colorado driver was repeatedly pulled over after officers mistakenly put his license plate number on a Flock hotlist. Original source Volusia County, Florida Date April 2026 Type Error Camera Flock Based on a Flock capture, officers mistook an innocent driver’s car for one that was at the scene of a deadly accident. The driver was jailed for 13 days. Original source Sherwood, Arkansas Date February 2026 Type Error Camera Flock A Flock camera misread a digit on an innocent couple’s vehicle, prompting officers to pull the over and order them out of the car at gunpoint. Original source Boulder County, Colorado Date December 2025 Type Error Camera Flock Another Colorado driver was repeatedly pulled over after officers mistakenly put her license plate number on a Flock hotlist. Original source San Diego, California Date November 2025 Type Error Camera Flock Based on a Flock capture, officers mistook an innocent driver’s car for one that was at the scene of an attempted carjacking. The driver was jailed for nearly one month. Original source Denver, Colorado Date September 2025 Type Error Camera Flock An officer misinterpreted Flock captures to blame an innocent woman for series of thefts. Original source Jefferson County, Colorado Date August 2025 Type Error Camera Flock Yet another Colorado driver was repeatedly pulled over after officers mistakenly put her license plate number on a Flock hotlist. Original source Redmond, Washington Date August 2025 Type Error Camera Flock After data in the Flock system incorrectly linked a suspect’s vehicle to his innocent father, officers detained the wrong man. Original source Cumberland, Rhode Island Date March 2025 Type Error Camera Flock A woman filed an unlawful arrest lawsuit against the town after officers attempted to use a Flock photo to identify a driver of a car they were pursuing, and subsequently arrested the wrong person. Original source Lafayette, Indiana Date July 2024 Type Error Camera Flock Officers detained an innocent man at gunpoint after a Flock camera misread his license plate. Original source Morristown, Tennessee Date June 2024 Type Error Camera Flock After a Flock camera misread an “O” as a “0,” officers detained two grandparents at gunpoint while their three-year-old granddaughter watched from the car. Original source North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina Date May 2024 Type Error Camera Unspecified Officers misidentified a vehicle based on an ALPR alert, detaining an innocent teenager at gunpoint. Original source Toledo, Ohio Date April 2024 Type Error Camera Flock After a Flock camera misread a “7” as a “2,” officers detained an innocent driver at gunpoint, sicced their dog on him, and jailed him for several hours. Original source York County, South Carolina Date February 2024 Type Error Camera Flock An innocent motorist was detained at gunpoint after a Flock ALPR misread a character on his license plate, flagging the car as stolen. The sheriff’s office claimed the misread was due to a tinted license plate cover. Original source Sedgwick County, Kansas Date October 2023 Type Error Camera Flock After a Flock camera failed to distinguish between temporary and permanent license plates, sheriff’s deputies detained an innocent couple at gunpoint. Original source Detroit, Michigan Date September 2023 Type Error Camera Unspecified Officers misinterpreted ALPR data and detained an innocent woman at gunpoint, put her autistic child in the back seat of a police car, and impounded her vehicle for several weeks. Original source Houston, Texas Date August 2023 Type Error Camera Flock Officers misinterpreated a Flock alert and detained two innocent men at gunpoint. Original source Espanola, New Mexico Date July 2023 Type Error Camera Flock After officers entered incorrect information into the ALPR system, officers detained an innocent teenager at gunpoint. Original source Espanola, New Mexico Date July 2023 Type Error Camera Flock After a Flock camera misread a digit of their license plate, officers detained two innocent sisters at gunpoint. Original source Fayetteville, North Carolina Date July 2023 Type Error Camera Rekor Officers misinterpreted ALPR data and detained an innocent woman at gunpoint. Original source Jackson Township, Ohio Date March 2023 Type Error Camera Flock After officers failed to remove a license plate from a hot list, they pulled over and detained an innocent driver. Original source Roseville, California Date January 2023 Type Error Camera Flock Flock sent 1,427 alerts to Roseville police over two years, flagging cars as stolen or used in a felony. In 71% of them, the cameras read the plates incorrectly. Original source Charlotte, North Carolina Date July 2022 Type Error Camera NDI An ALPR hit led to an innocent woman’s arrest after officers entered incorrect information into the license plate reader system. Original source Greenville, South Carolina Date February 2022 Type Error Camera Unspecified After officers failed to remove a recovered rental vehicle from a hot list, officers detained two innocent women after they drove past a license plate camera. Original source Atherton, California Date April 2021 Type Error Camera Unspecified After an ALPR misread a license plate that was partially obscured by dirt, officers detained the driver at gunpoint. Original source Aurora, Colorado Date August 2020 Type Error Camera Unspecified After an ALPR misread a minivan’s license plate, officers detained a woman and four children at gunpoint. Original source Hercules, California Date November 2018 Type Error Camera Vigilant After officers failed to update a hot list about a stolen rental vehicle that had been recovered, a Vigilant ALPR flagged the vehicle and the driver and his brother were detained at gunpoint. Original source No incidents match the selected filters. Is Government Tracking Your Every Move? IJ is fighting to restore constitutional limits on surveillance — for every American. Submit a Case Support IJ Share About the Author CI Christopher Ingraham cingraham@ij.org In This Article 01 What happens when innocent people are stopped 02 How human errors contribute 03 List of known Incidents Featured Case Related Case · San Jose, California San Jose License Plate Readers View the Case → Primary Issue IJ Issue Area 4th Amendment Project License Plate Readers › Open Fields Doctrine › Third Party Doctrine › Help IJ keep fighting for constitutional rights nationwide. $25 $50 $100 Other Give Now More on License Plate Readers License Plate Readers Institute for Justice Unveils New Database Tracking Cancelations of License Plate Reader Contracts Dan King · August 26, 2026 License Plate Readers The IJ Database of ALPR Abuse Christopher Ingraham · August 12, 2026 License Plate Readers Hampton Roads Residents Will Appeal Court Decision Upholding Norfolk’s License Plate Reader Surveillance Dan King · January 27, 2026 Stay Informed Sign up to receive IJ's biweekly digital magazine, Liberty & Law , along with breaking updates about our fight to protect the rights of all Americans. Name * First Last Email * Yes, I want a hard copy, too! Yes, send me the magazine by mail, too! Address * Street Address City State / Province Alabama Alaska American Samoa Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Guam Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Northern Mariana Islands Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah US Virgin Islands Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Europe Armed Forces Pacific State ZIP Code Please note we do not mail the magazine outside the United States except to APO/FPO addresses. Menu ABOUT US About Us Financial Reports Board of Directors State Offices Staff Careers Students Liberty & Law Contact Us WHAT WE DO Litigation Activism Research Legislation IJ Clinic on Entrepreneurship Center for Judicial Engagement CASES IJ’s Cases Supreme Court Cases Amicus Briefs Complete Case List ISSUES Economic Liberty Educational Choice Private Property First Amendment Immunity and Accountability MEDIA News and Updates IJ in the News Press Releases Liberty & Law Podcasts Short Circuit SUPPORT IJ Support IJ Donate Online Donate Stock Monthly Giving Donate Through Your IRA Planned Gifts Partners Club Guardians Circle Employer Matching Additional Ways to Give Search Submit a Case Give Now Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram TikTok 901 N. Glebe Road, Suite 900 Arlington, VA 22203 P: (703) 682 9320 © Institute for Justice 2026 IJ® is a registered trademark of the Institute for Justice. The Institute for Justice is a 501(c)(3) organization; donations are tax-deductible to the fullest extent of the law. IJ’s tax ID number is 52-1744337. Privacy Policy Wait Notifications