How Flock is trying to take credit for the post-pandemic crime drop - Institute for Justice Skip to content Toggle navigation Submit a Case Give Now Menu Issues All Issues Private Property IJ defends the right of all Americans to own and enjoy their property free from unjust seizures, searches, and fines. First Amendment IJ fights for the right to speak freely about the issues that matter most to ordinary people and to defend the free flow of information essential to democratic government and free enterprise. Educational Choice IJ stands for the idea that every child deserves a chance at a great education and that all parents, regardless of means, should enjoy the freedom to direct their children’s education. Economic Liberty IJ believes that all people have the right to earn an honest living in the occupation of their choice without arbitrary, unnecessary, or protectionist government interference. Projects End Forfeiture Initiative Food Freedom Initiative Project on Immunity and Accountability Project on the Fourth Amendment Education Entrepreneurship Zoning Justice Project Cases Pennsylvania Hybrid School Recent Cases IJ is in court nationwide defending individual liberty. Check out some of our latest cases. U.S. Supreme Court Cases We fight for our clients at every level of the legal system, and we’ve been to the U.S. Supreme Court 13 times to date. Hearings Tune in to hear IJ advocates defending our clients’ rights Amicus Briefs IJ occasionally participates in cases that we aren’t litigating, but that have important implications for our mission. Complete Case List A look at every case we have filed, past and present. What We Do Litigation IJ files cutting-edge constitutional cases in state and federal courts to defend the rights of our clients and set legal precedent that protects countless others like them. Research IJ produces one-of-a-kind, high-quality research to enhance our effectiveness in court, educate the public, and shape public debate around our key issues. Legislation IJ provides principled advocacy and issue-area expertise to support legislation that expands individual liberty and protects vital constitutional rights. Activism IJ trains and mobilizes the public to be advocates for freedom and justice in their own communities. Media August 2026 Volume 35, Issue 4 News & Updates Get the latest on IJ’s cases and activities. Press Releases Breaking news from IJ, including case updates. Letters & Statements Read the latest warnings IJ has issued to government officials for their unconstitutional actions. Podcasts Listen to IJ attorneys and guests discuss the freedom, justice, and the law. IJ in the News Highlights of news outlets’ coverage of IJ’s work. Liberty & Law Magazine Read about IJ’s most important work with stories directly from the people in the trenches. Videos See our clients talk about their experiences and learn how we are fighting for their rights—and yours. Support IJ Support the Institute for Justice IJ represents our clients at no cost to them—and when we win, we secure precedent that protects the rights of all Americans. Ways to Support IJ Donate Online Donate Stock Monthly Giving Partners Club Donate through your IRA Planned Gifts Additional Ways to Give About Us About Us Staff Contact Us Careers Working at IJ Students Attorney Pathways at IJ Events & Speakers Honors and Accolades State Offices Financial Reports Board of Directors Search Search Search Issues All Issues Private Property First Amendment Educational Choice Economic Liberty Projects End Forfeiture Initiative Food Freedom Initiative Project on Immunity and Accountability Project on the Fourth Amendment Education Entrepreneurship Zoning Justice Project Cases Recent Cases U.S. Supreme Court Cases Hearings Amicus Briefs Complete Case List What We Do Litigation Research Legislation Activism IJ Clinic on Entrepreneurship Center for Judicial Engagement Short Circuit Media News & Updates Press Releases Letters & Statements Podcasts IJ in the News Liberty & Law Magazine Videos Support IJ Support the Institute for Justice Ways to Support IJ Donate Online Donate Stock Monthly Giving Partners Club Donate through your IRA Planned Gifts Additional Ways to Give About Us About Us Staff Contact Us Careers Working at IJ Students Attorney Pathways at IJ Events & Speakers Honors and Accolades State Offices Financial Reports Board of Directors Search Search Menu Search Home Issues 4th Amendment Project 4th Amendment Project License Plate Readers September 22, 2026 How Flock is trying to take credit for the post-pandemic crime drop CI Christopher Ingraham cingraham@ij.org A Flock camera in Arlington, Virginia. Boosters of automated license plate reader (ALPR) surveillance make grand claims about the capabilities of their technology. Flock Safety, for instance, says its mission is to “ eliminate crime. Full stop .” In 2021 it announced a goal of reducing all crime in America by 25% in three years. Today, the company claims communities using their technology have seen “ crime reductions of up to 70 percent .” The company’s promotional efforts are peppered with claims of purported crime drops: A 62% reduction of crime in Cobb County, Georgia . A 32% drop in Houston homicides . An across-the-board 25% decrease in San Francisco. But these marketing factoids mistake correlation for causation by skipping over a critical piece of context: Flock aggressively expanded nationwide in the post-pandemic years, when crime rates were receding from a COVID-era spike . That receding tide affected virtually every American city, regardless of the law enforcement technologies they used. Flock Safety, in other words, had the good fortune of scaling up during one of the steepest crime declines in modern American history, and has spent several years taking credit for it. Consider San Francisco. In March 2024, the city began work on a 400-camera network of Flock ALPRs . The following year Mayor Daniel Lurie characterized the cameras and associated technology as a “ turning point for public safety ,” and earlier this year Flock CEO Garrett Langley credited the cameras with a 25% drop in crime in 2025. The city’s actual crime data , however, tell a much more nuanced story. As the chart above shows, property crime began falling precipitously in the latter half of 2023, before the first Flock camera was installed (city officials noted as much at the time). Violent crimes follow a similar trajectory. The decreases observed in 2024 and 2025, in other words, continued a pre-existing trend. There are many possible explanations for the turnaround that began in 2023. Some California authorities cite better law enforcement coordination and changes in policing practices. Other experts point to the gradual recovery from the society-wide disruptions of the pandemic. In any event, while it’s possible Flock Safety cameras contributed in some way to the pre-existing trend once they were introduced, the data show that crime numbers were already improving months before the first cameras were installed. ALPR marketing narratives are further undercut by the simple fact that crime rates sometimes increase after the installation of surveillance cameras. This doesn’t mean that the cameras caused those increases, any more than Flock’s promotional materials prove the cameras reduce crime. But it illustrates how crime trends are complex and noisy year-over-year, and how poorly they lend themselves to single-cause explanations. Take Springville, Alabama, which entered into a contract with Flock Safety in 2019 . That year the property crime rate was 419 incidents per 100,000 people , according to FBI data compiled by the Crime Index. By 2023 it had more than tripled, to 1,510 per 100,000. It has since subsided somewhat, but remains elevated relative to its pre-pandemic baseline. Or consider Marietta, Georgia, which introduced Flock cameras in 2017. Local authorities have lavished praise on the system, but in the three years following its introduction the violent crime rate spiked from 349 to 489 incidents per 100,000 people . It has since fallen below its pre-pandemic level. None of this is to suggest the Flock cameras caused these observed spikes in crime, any more than the cameras caused the decreases in other cities cited by the technology’s boosters. Rather, they illustrate that crime rates don’t depend simply on the presence or absence of Flock cameras or any other single enforcement technology. Crime is a complex social problem, and its ebbs and flows are driven by many complex factors that differ greatly from place to place. Academic studies of ALPR efficacy are in their infancy. Systematic, national analyses of the effects of ALPR deployment are limited to a single working paper released this summer, purporting to show a modest drop in motor vehicle thefts and a modest improvement in clearance rates. But data limitations and the inherent challenges of measuring complex social phenomena make it difficult to draw firm conclusions . While the benefits of ALPR technology remain unproven, the harms are well-documented. The Institute for Justice has cataloged more than 200 cases of ALPR abuse and misuse, including more than 60 stalking incidents, 33 errors resulting in the arrest or detention of innocent people, and more than 100 additional cases of officers disciplined or criminally charged for misusing ALPR systems. Those documented cases are likely just the tip of the iceberg, as more abuses come to light every day. As a result, hundreds of communities across the United States have already canceled their contracts with Flock and other ALPR providers. Others are considering restrictions on ALPR use and even outright bans on the technology. To learn more, visit IJ’s Plate Privacy Project. Is Government Tracking Your Every Move? IJ is fighting to restore constitutional limits on surveillance — for every American. Submit a Case Support IJ Share About the Author CI Christopher Ingraham cingraham@ij.org Featured Case Related Case · Chicago, Illinois Chicago CBP Raid View the Case → Primary Issue IJ Issue Area 4th Amendment Project License Plate Readers › Open Fields Doctrine › Third Party Doctrine › Help IJ keep fighting for constitutional rights nationwide. $25 $50 $100 Other Give Now More on 4th Amendment Project 4th Amendment Project Do Flock cameras actually reduce crime? The jury is still out. Christopher Ingraham · September 17, 2026 4th Amendment Project Institute for Justice Promises to Continue Fight for Privacy Rights After Legislation on Automated License Plate Readers Fails to Advance Phillip Suderman · April 29, 2026 4th Amendment Project Three San Jose Residents File Federal Class Action Lawsuit Over City’s Mass Surveillance of Drivers Dan King · April 15, 2026 Stay Informed Sign up to receive IJ's biweekly digital magazine, Liberty & Law , along with breaking updates about our fight to protect the rights of all Americans. Name * First Last Email * Yes, I want a hard copy, too! Yes, send me the magazine by mail, too! Address * Street Address City State / Province Alabama Alaska American Samoa Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Guam Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Northern Mariana Islands Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah US Virgin Islands Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Europe Armed Forces Pacific State ZIP Code Please note we do not mail the magazine outside the United States except to APO/FPO addresses. Menu ABOUT US About Us Financial Reports Board of Directors State Offices Staff Careers Students Liberty & Law Contact Us WHAT WE DO Litigation Activism Research Legislation IJ Clinic on Entrepreneurship Center for Judicial Engagement CASES IJ’s Cases Supreme Court Cases Amicus Briefs Complete Case List ISSUES Economic Liberty Educational Choice Private Property First Amendment Immunity and Accountability MEDIA News and Updates IJ in the News Press Releases Liberty & Law Podcasts Short Circuit SUPPORT IJ Support IJ Donate Online Donate Stock Monthly Giving Donate Through Your IRA Planned Gifts Partners Club Guardians Circle Employer Matching Additional Ways to Give Search Submit a Case Give Now Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram TikTok 901 N. Glebe Road, Suite 900 Arlington, VA 22203 P: (703) 682 9320 © Institute for Justice 2026 IJ® is a registered trademark of the Institute for Justice. The Institute for Justice is a 501(c)(3) organization; donations are tax-deductible to the fullest extent of the law. IJ’s tax ID number is 52-1744337. Privacy Policy Wait Notifications