The IJ Database of ALPR Abuse - Institute for Justice Skip to content Toggle navigation Submit a Case Give Now Menu Issues All Issues Private Property IJ defends the right of all Americans to own and enjoy their property free from unjust seizures, searches, and fines. First Amendment IJ fights for the right to speak freely about the issues that matter most to ordinary people and to defend the free flow of information essential to democratic government and free enterprise. Educational Choice IJ stands for the idea that every child deserves a chance at a great education and that all parents, regardless of means, should enjoy the freedom to direct their children’s education. Economic Liberty IJ believes that all people have the right to earn an honest living in the occupation of their choice without arbitrary, unnecessary, or protectionist government interference. Projects End Forfeiture Initiative Food Freedom Initiative Project on Immunity and Accountability Project on the Fourth Amendment Education Entrepreneurship Zoning Justice Project Cases Pennsylvania Hybrid School Recent Cases IJ is in court nationwide defending individual liberty. Check out some of our latest cases. U.S. Supreme Court Cases We fight for our clients at every level of the legal system, and we’ve been to the U.S. Supreme Court 13 times to date. Hearings Tune in to hear IJ advocates defending our clients’ rights Amicus Briefs IJ occasionally participates in cases that we aren’t litigating, but that have important implications for our mission. Complete Case List A look at every case we have filed, past and present. What We Do Litigation IJ files cutting-edge constitutional cases in state and federal courts to defend the rights of our clients and set legal precedent that protects countless others like them. Research IJ produces one-of-a-kind, high-quality research to enhance our effectiveness in court, educate the public, and shape public debate around our key issues. Legislation IJ provides principled advocacy and issue-area expertise to support legislation that expands individual liberty and protects vital constitutional rights. Activism IJ trains and mobilizes the public to be advocates for freedom and justice in their own communities. Media August 2026 Volume 35, Issue 4 News & Updates Get the latest on IJ’s cases and activities. Press Releases Breaking news from IJ, including case updates. Letters & Statements Read the latest warnings IJ has issued to government officials for their unconstitutional actions. Podcasts Listen to IJ attorneys and guests discuss the freedom, justice, and the law. IJ in the News Highlights of news outlets’ coverage of IJ’s work. Liberty & Law Magazine Read about IJ’s most important work with stories directly from the people in the trenches. Videos See our clients talk about their experiences and learn how we are fighting for their rights—and yours. Support IJ Support the Institute for Justice Ways to Support IJ Donate Online Donate Stock Monthly Giving Partners Club Donate through your IRA Planned Gifts Additional Ways to Give About Us About Us Staff Contact Us Careers Working at IJ Students Attorney Pathways at IJ Events & Speakers Honors and Accolades State Offices Financial Reports Board of Directors Search Search Search Issues All Issues Private Property First Amendment Educational Choice Economic Liberty Projects End Forfeiture Initiative Food Freedom Initiative Project on Immunity and Accountability Project on the Fourth Amendment Education Entrepreneurship Zoning Justice Project Cases Recent Cases U.S. Supreme Court Cases Hearings Amicus Briefs Complete Case List What We Do Litigation Research Legislation Activism IJ Clinic on Entrepreneurship Center for Judicial Engagement Short Circuit Media News & Updates Press Releases Letters & Statements Podcasts IJ in the News Liberty & Law Magazine Videos Support IJ Support the Institute for Justice Ways to Support IJ Donate Online Donate Stock Monthly Giving Partners Club Donate through your IRA Planned Gifts Additional Ways to Give About Us About Us Staff Contact Us Careers Working at IJ Students Attorney Pathways at IJ Events & Speakers Honors and Accolades State Offices Financial Reports Board of Directors Search Search Menu Search Home Issues License Plate Readers 4th Amendment Project License Plate Readers August 12, 2026 The IJ Database of ALPR Abuse The Institute for Justice has cataloged more than 200 incidents of ALPR abuse, including romantic stalking, wrongful stops and detentions, non-law enforcement use, and other types of misconduct. CI Christopher Ingraham cingraham@ij.org A Flock camera in Arlington, Virginia. Automated license plate readers (ALPRs) were sold to American communities as a targeted tool for catching car thieves and finding missing people. What they actually purchased has grown into something far broader and more frightening: an AI-powered network of cameras that photograph and log the movement of every driver who passes, whether or not they are suspected of any crime. Companies like Flock Safety have now blanketed thousands of communities with ALPRs, quietly assembling powerful mass surveillance systems that can reconstruct where people have been, when, and how often, all without a warrant. This dragnet surveillance threatens the freedoms the Fourth Amendment was adopted to protect. These concerns aren’t just abstractions: every day, innocent people are harmed by officials’ abuse and misuse of these ALPRs. Here are just a few examples: In Florida, a woman was stalked and pulled over by a sheriff’s deputy who saw her at a TV shoot. In Texas, a sheriff’s deputy used 83,000 Flock ALPRs to find a woman who had allegedly had a medication abortion, at the behest of her abusive partner. In Georgia, a police chief tracked his ex-girlfriend and her teenage daughter roughly 600 times . All told, the Institute for Justice (IJ) has identified well over 100 incidents of ALPR abuse, including romantic stalking, wrongful stops and detentions, non-law enforcement use, and other types of misconduct. Although this is the most comprehensive list publicly available, it may be just the tip of the iceberg. Officers rarely enter specific reasons when they search ALPR databases, and the volume of searches is so large that it would be impossible to figure out whether officers’ vague justifications are actually true. For instance, in litigation against Norfolk, Virginia, IJ discovered that the top three search reasons (“cj,” “stolen,” and “inv”) accounted for nearly one third of 230,000 searches over two years. One officer repeatedly wrote “la la la la,” and nobody noticed. The incidents IJ identified are documented and mapped below. IJ is updating this database regularly, and you can help by letting us know about any incidents we missed. When the government can track the everyday movements of ordinary people—to their jobs, their churches, their doctors, their protests—it holds a kind of power over private life that the Constitution does not allow. That is why IJ is fighting back in court, including federal lawsuits challenging ALPR surveillance programs in the cities of Norfolk and San Jose . To learn more, visit plateprivacy.com . Database of ALPR abuse Search State All states Alabama Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Florida Georgia Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Missouri Nebraska Nevada New Mexico New York North Carolina Ohio Oklahoma Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina Tennessee Texas Utah Virginia Washington Wisconsin Type All types Error Non Law-Enforcement Use Other Misuse Stalking Sort Newest first Oldest first Location A-Z State A-Z 244 incidents shown Error Non Law-Enforcement Use Other Misuse Stalking + – Reset Port St. Lucie, Florida Indianapolis, Indiana Vero Beach, Florida Texas City, Texas Indian River County, Florida Colquitt County, Georgia Emerson, Georgia Anderson County, South Carolina San Jose, California Anderson County, South Carolina Peachtree City, Georgia Peachtree City, Georgia Wrightsville Beach, North Carolina Swampscott, Massachusetts Gwinnett, Georgia Gwinnett, Georgia Michigan City, Indiana Joliet, Illinois Clayton County, Georgia New Bedford, Massachusetts Hall County, Georgia Joliet, Illinois Richmond County, Georgia Richmond County, Georgia Hahira, Georgia Brunswick County, North Carolina Hall County, Georgia Hall County, Georgia Hall County, Georgia Tift County, Georgia DeKalb County, Georgia Hall County, Georgia West Chicago, Illinois Alexandria, Virginia Colleton County, South Carolina Bangor, Maine Channahon, Illinois Will County, Illinois Pflugerville, Texas Lee County, Alabama Habersham County, Georgia Hall County, Georgia Hall County, Georgia Lynn, Massachusetts Lynn, Massachusetts Oklahoma City, Oklahoma St. Charles County, Missouri Bloomingdale, Illinois Creve Coeur, Illinois Itasca, Illinois Brevard County, Florida Lufkin, Texas Henrico County, Virginia Reidsville, North Carolina Temple, Texas Atlanta, Georgia Covington, Georgia Palos Park, Illinois Bibb County, Georgia Bibb County, Georgia Bibb County, Georgia Mooresville, North Carolina Coweta County, Georgia Coweta County, Georgia Coweta County, Georgia Brookfield, Wisconsin Apache Junction, Arizona Brentwood, Missouri East Point, Georgia Union City, Georgia DeKalb County, Georgia DeKalb County, Georgia DeKalb County, Georgia DeKalb County, Georgia DeKalb County, Georgia DeKalb County, Georgia DeKalb County, Georgia DeKalb County, Georgia New Bedford, Massachusetts Millcreek, Utah Chandler, Arizona Goodyear, Arizona Indianapolis, Indiana Deer Park, Texas Houston County, Georgia Jefferson Parish, Louisiana Carson City, Nevada Albany, Georgia Albany, Georgia Albany, Georgia Albany, Georgia Albany, Georgia Greene County, Georgia DeKalb County, Georgia Fayetteville, Georgia Fayetteville, Georgia Fayetteville, Georgia Racine, Wisconsin Racine, Wisconsin Sumter County, Florida Habersham County, Georgia Auburn, Washington Baytown, Texas Greenville County, South Carolina Greenville County, South Carolina Moody, Alabama Richland County, South Carolina Savannah, Georgia Savannah, Georgia Savannah, Georgia Savannah, Georgia Savannah, Georgia Savannah, Georgia Reynoldsburg, Ohio Henry County, Georgia Decatur, Alabama Plymouth, Minnesota Scotts Bluff, Nebraska Cherokee County, Georgia Cherokee County, Georgia Cherokee County, Georgia Statesboro, Georgia Springville, Alabama Charlotte, North Carolina Sparks, Nevada Midgeville, Georgia Pasadena, Texas Amarillo, Texas Alpharetta, Georgia Cherry Hills, Colorado Volusia County, Florida Gwinnett County, Georgia Conyers, Georgia Mauldin, South Carolina Sherwood, Arkansas Key West, Florida San Francisco, California Richmond, Virginia Reynoldsburg, Ohio Shively, Kentucky Kingsville, Texas Kettering, Ohio Shaker Heights, Ohio Jackson County, Indiana Boulder County, Colorado Greer, South Carolina Statenville, Georgia Columbus, Ohio San Diego, California Bonner Springs, Kansas Eagan, Minnesota Dunwoody, Georgia Lenexa, Kansas Joplin, Missouri Niceville, Florida Menasha, Wisconsin Sandy Springs, Georgia Story County, Iowa Katy, Texas Fort Pierce, Florida Denver, Colorado Prairie Grove, Illinois Kenosha County, Wisconsin Jefferson County, Colorado Redmond, Washington Racine County, Wisconsin Springfield, Illinois Colleton County, South Carolina Porter County, Indiana Revere, Massachusetts Richmond, Virginia Richmond County, Georgia Richmond County, Georgia Richmond County, Georgia Joliet, Illinois Jerome County, Idaho Winnebago County, Illinois Athens, Georgia Richmond County, Georgia Berkeley, Illinois Athens, Georgia Greer, South Carolina Johnson County, Texas Sarasota, Florida Waukesha County, Wisconsin Akron, Ohio Boston, Massachusetts Braintree, Massachusetts Louisville, Kentucky Milwaukee, Wisconsin Cumberland, Rhode Island Oak Ridge, Tennessee East Cleveland, Ohio Louisville, Kentucky Matteson, Illinois Tulsa, Oklahoma Oklahoma City, Oklahoma Chatham County, Georgia Albany County, New York Louisville, Kentucky Highland Heights, Ohio Haines City, Florida West Chester, Ohio Shelby County, Tennessee San Francisco, California Eastpointe, Michigan Lafayette, Indiana Braselton, Georgia Braselton, Georgia Eastpointe, Michigan Morristown, Tennessee Riverside County, California Orange City, Florida Houston, Texas Polk County, Georgia Dallas, Georgia Stow, Massachusetts Chesterton, Indiana North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina Toledo, Ohio Coffee County, Georgia York County, South Carolina Milwaukee, Wisconsin Columbus, Ohio Sedgwick County, Kansas Sedgwick, Kansas Cherokee County, Georgia Detroit, Michigan Houston, Texas Fayetteville, North Carolina Espanola, New Mexico Espanola, New Mexico Dayton, Ohio Costa Mesa, California Jackson Township, Ohio Roseville, California Kechi, Kansas Charlotte, North Carolina Greenville, South Carolina Fort Bend County, Texas Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania Atherton, California Aurora, Colorado Hercules, California Incident List Port St. Lucie, Florida Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Florida Highway Patrol trooper Alain Fernandez was arrested after sending data from Flock and other sensitive databases over Snapchat to other individuals. Original source Indianapolis, Indiana Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock A second unnamed Indianapolis officer was suspended and recommended for termination after allegedly committing unspecified misuse of the license plate reader system. Original source Vero Beach, Florida Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed Vero Beach police officer was put on leave after a news outlet contacted the department about alleged misuse of the Flock system. Original source Texas City, Texas Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Unspecified An unnamed civilian employee of the Texas City Police Department was disciplined for unspecified misuse of the ALPR system. Original source Indian River County, Florida Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Indian River County sheriff’s office sergeant John Finnegan was placed on leave after a reporter inquired about potential misuse of the Flock system. Original source Colquitt County, Georgia Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Former deputy Bentley Hughes was arrested and is facing multiple criminal charges over alleged misuse of the Flock system. Original source Emerson, Georgia Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Former Emerson officer Anthony Trapani is facing multiple criminal charges after allegedly misusing the Flock system at two separate police departments. Original source Anderson County, South Carolina Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Anderson County deputy Caleb Dixon resigned in the middle of an investigation into alleged Flock misuse. Original source San Jose, California Date September 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock An unnamed San Jose police officer was fired after allegedly using the Flock system to track a domestic violence victim on behalf of her abuser. He was not criminally charged. Original source Anderson County, South Carolina Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Deputy Eric Center resigned after the start of an investigation into his improper use of the Flock system. The sheriff’s office stated the misconduct was a policy violation but not a criminal matter, and no charges will be filed. Original source Peachtree City, Georgia Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock One of two unnamed Peachtree City officers no longer employed by the agency after allegedly misusing the Flock system. The cases have been referred to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation for possible criminal prosecution, according to reporting by TheCitizen.com. Original source Peachtree City, Georgia Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock One of two unnamed Peachtree City officers no longer employed by the agency after allegedly misusing the Flock system. The cases have been referred to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation for possible criminal prosecution, according to reporting by TheCitizen.com. Original source Wrightsville Beach, North Carolina Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed Wrightsville Beach officer was fired and referred for criminal investigation after unspecified misuse of the Flock system. Original source Swampscott, Massachusetts Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed Swampscott officer was placed on leave while authorities investigated the officer’s alleged misuse of the Flock system in the nearby town of Lynn. Original source Gwinnett, Georgia Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Officer Derric Holmes was fired and charged with six counts of misuse of license plate data for unspecified misconduct. Original source Gwinnett, Georgia Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Officer Matthew Lay was fired and charged with one count of misuse of license plate reader data for unspecified misconduct. Original source Michigan City, Indiana Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed Michigan City officer resigned in the midst of an investigation into unauthorized Flock searches. Original source Joliet, Illinois Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed officer was put on paid administrative leave following an investigation into improper use of the Flock system. Original source Clayton County, Georgia Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Deputy Errol Farrell was arrested and charged with misuse of a license plate reader system after allegedly running improper searches on Flock. Original source New Bedford, Massachusetts Date September 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Sgt. James Marinelli was referred for possible criminal charges after allegedly using the Flock system to track current and former girlfriends. Original source Hall County, Georgia Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Hall County deputy Melissa Wood was fired after allegedly using the Flock system to search for a person “known to her.” Original source Joliet, Illinois Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed Joliet Police Department employee was put on paid administrative leave following an investigation into alleged misuse of the Flock system. Original source Richmond County, Georgia Date September 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Investigator Sean Morrow was fired and criminally charged for alleged misuse of the Flock system. Original source Richmond County, Georgia Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Deputy Jose Ferrer was fired and criminally charged for alleged misuse of the Flock system. Original source Hahira, Georgia Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Former officer Daniel Lindsay was arrested and criminally charged for alleged “non-work-related” misuse of the Flock system. Original source Brunswick County, North Carolina Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed Brunswick County Sheriff’s Office employee resigned and was put under criminal investigation for alleged misuse of the Flock system. Original source Hall County, Georgia Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Deputy Jason Orellana resigned after performing 10 unauthorized Flock searches at the request of a co-worker who did not have access to the system. Original source Hall County, Georgia Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Hall County deputy Taylor McArthur resigned after asking a co-worker to run Flock searches on people she knew. Original source Hall County, Georgia Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Hall County deputy Austin Scott Flanagan resigned after accessing the Flock system multiple times for reasons unrelated to his job. He was also under investigation for making harrassing phone calls. Original source Tift County, Georgia Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed Tift County deputy was demoted and had his access to sensitive data systems revoked after running Flock searches on himself. Original source DeKalb County, Georgia Date September 2026 Type Error Camera Flock A driver was wrongfully pulled over twice after Flock cameras incorrectly flagged her new car twice for purported insurance violations. Original source Hall County, Georgia Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Hall County deputy Brandon Sanders resigned after an internal audit uncovered multiple off-duty Flock searches not connected to any police work. Original source West Chicago, Illinois Date September 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed West Chicago officer was placed on paid administrative leave while the police department investigates the officer’s alleged misuse of the Flock system. Original source Alexandria, Virginia Date September 2026 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock Audit reports and emails obtained by the Alexandria Times show at least 56 instances of apparent misuse of the Alexandria Flock database, with the majority of those cases involving a lack of a case number or adequate explanation for the search, a violation of department policy. Original source Colleton County, South Carolina Date August 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Sheriff’s Office Lieutenant Kevin Smalls was fired after allegedly running 62 unauthorized searches on the Flock system for his spouse and other people he knew. Original source Bangor, Maine Date August 2026 Type Other Misuse Camera Unspecified License plate cameras manufactured by Leonardo were retaining data more than 21 days in violation of Maine law. When notified of the problem, technicians with the company were unable to fix it. Original source Channahon, Illinois Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed Channahon officer was placed on administrative leave after an audit revealed possible misuse of the Flock system. Original source Will County, Illinois Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed Will County sheriff’s deputy was placed on leave while authorities investigated the deputy’s alleged misuse of the Flock system. Original source Pflugerville, Texas Date August 2026 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock Pflugerville authorities shut down and covered the city’s Flock cameras after an open records request by a city resident revealed that hundreds of outside agencies had unauthorized access to the city’s Flock data. Original source Lee County, Alabama Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed Lee County deputy was fired after an audit allegedly revealed Flock misuse. Original source Habersham County, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Deputy Jonathan Thomas was fired and criminally charged after an internal audit found that he used the Flock system to track the whereabouts of a person he was in a relationship with. After Thomas’ arrest, the Sheriff’s office announced it was imposing new restrictions on deputies’ use of Flock cameras. Original source Hall County, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Investigator Justin Brown was fired and referred to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation for potential criminal charges after allegedly using the Flock system for non-law enforcement reasons at least twice. Original source Hall County, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Investigator Michael Atkins was fired and referred to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation for potential criminal charges after allegedly using the Flock system for non-law enforcement reasons at least four times. Original source Lynn, Massachusetts Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock One of two unnamed Lynn officers placed on administrative leave after an audit uncovered “a concerning pattern” in some Flock searches. Original source Lynn, Massachusetts Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock One of two unnamed Lynn officers placed on administrative leave after an audit uncovered “a concerning pattern” in some Flock searches. Original source Oklahoma City, Oklahoma Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed officer received “corrective action” after using the Flock system to infringe on a person’s rights in an unspecified manner. Original source St. Charles County, Missouri Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock A civilian employee resigned in the midst of an investigation into allegedly “egregious” personal misuse of the Flock system. Original source Bloomingdale, Illinois Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed Bloomingdale officer was put on leave after allegedly using the Flock system for an unauthorized purpose. Original source Creve Coeur, Illinois Date August 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Creve Coeur police chief Justin Egan resigned after allegedly using the department’s Flock cameras to keep tabs on his ex-wife, who was seeking an order of protection against him. Egan also allegedly instructed other officers to track her. Original source Itasca, Illinois Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed officer was fired for an unspecified Flock violation after a news organization requested records related to misuse of license plate readers. Original source Brevard County, Florida Date August 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Former Brevard Deputy Michael Fultz resigned after an investigation uncovered “egregious misconduct,” including looking up his ex-girlfriend’s license plate on Flock. Original source Lufkin, Texas Date August 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Lufkin officer Zachary Klein was arrested and indicted on 100 felony counts related to misuse of the Flock system “for a nongovernmental purpose and with the intent to obtain a benefit or harm or defraud another.” Klein allegedly searched for his ex-girlfriend and people she knew more than 10,000 times. The department subsequently disabled all of its Flock cameras. Original source Henrico County, Virginia Date August 2026 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock After an internal review, Henrico County authorities revoked fire marshals’ access to the Flock system as state law prohibits such use. Original source Reidsville, North Carolina Date August 2026 Type Error Camera Flock Reidsville resident Amadeus Purcell says police officers citing a Flock capture falsely accused him of reckless driving. Purcell was able to prove his innocence because he had a Wendy’s receipt in his car indicating he was not in the area of the offense when it occurred. Original source Temple, Texas Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed Temple officer resigned in the midst of an investigation into allegedly unauthorized use of the Flock system. Original source Atlanta, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Georgia Department of Corrections special agent Robert Keim was arrested and charged after allegedly misusing a Flock license plate reader system. Original source Covington, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Former officer Michael Canty was arrested for alleged misuse of the Flock system. Original source Palos Park, Illinois Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Officer Cohen Piechocinski was accused of conducted multiple unauthorized Flock searches of his personal vehicles. His Flock privileges were revoked and the department is considering discipline. Original source Bibb County, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Former deputy Tony Lewis was charged with stalking and other crimes after allegedly using the Flock system to track someone he was in a relationship with. Original source Bibb County, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Former deputy Coznavian Stubbs was charged with stalking and other crimes after allegedly using the Flock system to track someone he was in a relationship with. Original source Bibb County, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Former deputy Joseph Callaway was charged with stalking and other crimes after allegedly using the Flock system to track someone he was in a relationship with. Original source Mooresville, North Carolina Date August 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Officer Elizabeth Snowman was criminally charged after allegedly using Flock cameras to track the location of her boyfriend’s ex-wife. Original source Coweta County, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock One of three unnamed Coweta County Sheriff’s Office employees who resigned in the midst of an audit into their use of Flock. Original source Coweta County, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock One of three unnamed Coweta County Sheriff’s Office employees who resigned in the midst of an audit into their use of Flock. Original source Coweta County, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock One of three unnamed Coweta County Sheriff’s Office employees who resigned in the midst of an audit into their use of Flock. Original source Brookfield, Wisconsin Date August 2026 Type Error Camera Flock Officers pulled over an innocent person with guns drawn after a Flock camera issued an alert for a vehicle that should not have been in the system. Original source Apache Junction, Arizona Date August 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Former officer Joshua McDaniels resigned at the conclusion of an investigation that found he improperly used Flock to look up the location of his wife. Original source Brentwood, Missouri Date August 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock An outside investigation found that an unnamed officer committed “sustained policy violations” by using the Flock system to track the location of his ex-wife during their divorce proceedings. Original source East Point, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Documents viewed by InvestigateTV showed that an unnamed East Point officer used Flock for personal searches, with the police chief describing the incident as a “one-off.” Original source Union City, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Documents reviewed by InvestigateTV showed that an unnamed officer was forced to resign following an investigation into Flock misuse. Original source DeKalb County, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock One of five unnamed DeKalb officers suspended for searching Flock without a legitimate law enforcement purpose. Original source DeKalb County, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock One of five unnamed DeKalb officers suspended for searching Flock without a legitimate law enforcement purpose. Original source DeKalb County, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock One of five unnamed DeKalb officers suspended for searching Flock without a legitimate law enforcement purpose. Original source DeKalb County, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock One of five unnamed DeKalb officers suspended for searching Flock without a legitimate law enforcement purpose. Original source DeKalb County, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock One of five unnamed DeKalb officers suspended for searching Flock without a legitimate law enforcement purpose. Original source DeKalb County, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock One of three unnamed DeKalb officers suspended for unspecified Flock policy violations. Original source DeKalb County, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock One of three unnamed DeKalb officers suspended for unspecified Flock policy violations. Original source DeKalb County, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock One of three unnamed DeKalb officers suspended for unspecified Flock policy violations. Original source New Bedford, Massachusetts Date August 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock New Bedford officer Emily Pacheco was placed on leave and an investigation was opened after her ex-girlfriend filed for an abuse prevention order against her. Pacheco allegedly stalked her ex using Flock cameras. Original source Millcreek, Utah Date August 2026 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock Authorities in Millcreek discovered a Flock camera on city property and removed it after being unable to determine who installed it or who had access to it. Original source Chandler, Arizona Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed Chandler police department employee allegedly misused Flock data, resulting in the city canceling its contract with the company. Original source Goodyear, Arizona Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed Goodyear officer was placed on administrative leave after an audit flagged “concerning activity involving a potential department policy violation.” Original source Indianapolis, Indiana Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Unspecified An unnamed IMPD officer was suspended and recommended for termination after an internal investigation found they used the department’s ALPR cameras for “personal reasons.” Original source Deer Park, Texas Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Deer Park officer Brandon Williams was suspended for 10 days and reassigned to Patrol Division after allegedly searching for a single license plate 165 times over the span of several months. The searches were not related to law enforcement work. Original source Houston County, Georgia Date August 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock School Resource Officer Sierra Carroll was suspended without pay and is facing potential criminal charges after an internal audit revealed she misused the Flock system to track family members and coworkers. Original source Jefferson Parish, Louisiana Date August 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock After an inquiry from a reporter, the Jefferson Parish Sheriff’s Office fired Deputy Nathan Rome after determining he had searched for his ex-fiancee’s license plate thousands of times over several years. The ex-fiancee told investigators she was aware of the unauthorized searches. Original source Carson City, Nevada Date August 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock A Carson City Sheriff’s Office employee resigned after allegedly misusing the Flock camera system. Original source Albany, Georgia Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Isaac Whitus was one of five officers fired by the Albany Police Department and arrested in July 2026 for allegedly misusing Flock cameras. Original source Albany, Georgia Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Brittney Smith was one of five officers fired by the Albany Police Department and arrested in July 2026 for allegedly misusing Flock cameras. Original source Albany, Georgia Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Nicholas Richardson was one of five officers fired by the Albany Police Department and arrested in July 2026 for allegedly misusing Flock cameras. Original source Albany, Georgia Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Jade Jackson was one of five officers fired by the Albany Police Department and arrested in July 2026 for allegedly misusing Flock cameras. Original source Albany, Georgia Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Tytianna Davis was one of five officers fired by the Albany Police Department and arrested in July 2026 for allegedly misusing Flock cameras. Original source Greene County, Georgia Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Deputy Quin’sha Goss was fired and arrested for allegedly using the Flock system for personal reasons over a period of several months. Original source DeKalb County, Georgia Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock DeKalb County Sergeant Kabiru Salawu was fired and arrested after allegedly using Flock cameras for personal reasons. Original source Fayetteville, Georgia Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock One of three unnamed officers fired and under criminal investigation for allegedly using Flock cameras to look up information on themselves, friends or family members. Original source Fayetteville, Georgia Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock One of three unnamed officers fired and under criminal investigation for allegedly using Flock cameras to look up information on themselves, friends or family members. Original source Fayetteville, Georgia Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock One of three unnamed officers fired and under criminal investigation for allegedly using Flock cameras to look up information on themselves, friends or family members. Original source Racine, Wisconsin Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock As of July 2026, two unnamed officers were under investigation for allegedly misusing Flock cameras in Racine County. Original source Racine, Wisconsin Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock As of July 2026, two unnamed officers were under investigation for allegedly misusing Flock cameras in Racine County. Original source Sumter County, Florida Date July 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Sumter County detective Brandy Almany was fired and criminally charged after allegedly using Flock and other police databases to track her husband’s ex-wife. Original source Habersham County, Georgia Date July 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Deputy Christian Brewer was fired and arrested after an internal audit uncovered he used the Flock system to track the whereabouts of a person he was in a relationship with. Original source Auburn, Washington Date July 2026 Type Error Camera Flock Auburn police used Flock cameras to track down a shooting suspect, but arrested the wrong man. Original source Baytown, Texas Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Chief John Stringer announced an internal and criminal investigation after receiving allegations that one of its officers misused the Flock system. That officer subsequently resigned. Original source Greenville County, South Carolina Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Dispatcher Lauren Wilkinson was fired for unspecified misuse of the Flock system. Original source Greenville County, South Carolina Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Former Deputy Richard Mann was fired for unspecified misuse of the Flock system. Original source Moody, Alabama Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock According to Police Chief Reece Smith, a Moody officer was fired for misusing the Flock system. “There was no victim in this case,” the chief said, “but it was still a violation of the policy.” Original source Richland County, South Carolina Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Former Deputy Russell Kenton II was fired and arrested for using the Flock system for non-law enforcement purposes. Original source Savannah, Georgia Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock One of four unnamed officers put on leave and referred for a criminal investigation over improper Flock use, including searches involving acquaintances and family members. Original source Savannah, Georgia Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Officer Matthew Rich was fired and charged with two counts of misuse of a license plate reader system and one count of violation of oath of office. Original source Savannah, Georgia Date July 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Officer Donald Phillips was fired and charged with two counts of misuse of a license plate reader system and one count of violation of oath of office for allegedly making 400 searches of his ex-girlfriend and another person he knew. Original source Savannah, Georgia Date July 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Officer Marquis Dillard was fired charged with two counts of misuse of a license plate reader system and one count of violation of oath of office for allegedly making more than 400 searches of a romantic rival. Original source Savannah, Georgia Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock One of two unnamed staffers put on leave and referred for a criminal investigation over improper Flock use, including searches involving acquaintances and family members. Original source Savannah, Georgia Date July 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Calandic Thomas, a community service specialist with the police department, was fired and charged with two counts of misuse of a license plate reader system for allegedly using Flock to search for the father of her child. Original source Reynoldsburg, Ohio Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Reynoldsville officer Alissa Birkhimer resigned in the midst of an investigation into possible Flock misuse. Original source Henry County, Georgia Date July 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Henry County officer Patrick Isbell was fired and criminally charged after using license plate reader data “for non-law enforcement purposes.” Original source Decatur, Alabama Date June 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed officer was placed on leave while authorities investigated alleged misuse of the Flock system that occurred on June 12, 2026. Original source Plymouth, Minnesota Date June 2026 Type Error Camera Flock Plymouth police tracked a different automobile writer for days and then detained him and his wife in a Kohl’s parking lot after a similar misread issue involving a Range Rover test vehicle. Original source Scotts Bluff, Nebraska Date June 2026 Type Error Camera Flock Automobile journalist Tim Esterdahl was pulled over by police after misreading the license plate of a Range Rover test vehicle. Original source Cherokee County, Georgia Date June 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Deputy Cynthia Jodesty was fired and arrested after she improperly accessed a license plate reader database. Original source Cherokee County, Georgia Date June 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Lieutenant Chris Bryant was fired and jailed for allegedly misusing the license plate reader database. Original source Cherokee County, Georgia Date June 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Sargeant Mike Creeden was fired and jailed for allegedly misusing the license plate reader database. Original source Statesboro, Georgia Date June 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Andrae Wright, a former Effingham County Sheriff’s Office employee and investigator with the Ogeechee Circuit District Attorney’s Office, was charged with stalking and other crimes for alleged misuse of the Flock system. Original source Springville, Alabama Date June 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed Springville officer resigned after an audit found that they looked up a family member’s vehicle. Original source Charlotte, North Carolina Date June 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Officer Seth Elliott was placed on leave and arrested for accessing Flock to look up an undercover investigator’s vehicle at the request of a drug suspect. Original source Sparks, Nevada Date June 2026 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock An EFF investigation found that Sparks Police Department receives “immigration violation” hot list alerts from ICE, despite internal policy prohibiting the Flock system from being used for immigration enforcement. Original source Midgeville, Georgia Date June 2026 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Major Brandon Sellers was fired and criminally charged for misusing Flock camera data. Original source Pasadena, Texas Date May 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Pasadena Sargeant Michael Palitz resigned while under investigation for allegedly misusing the department’s Flock camera system. Officials told news outlet KPRC 2 that Palitz was using the cameras to “track and stalk a female officer.” Original source Amarillo, Texas Date April 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Officer Christian Eder was fired and criminally charged after allegedly using Flock cameras to track a man he perceived as a romantic rival 76 times. Original source Alpharetta, Georgia Date April 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock An internal investigation concluded that Patrolman Dustin Bozzo used the Flock system dozens of times to track the whereabouts of a former romantic partner employed by the police department, as well as another officer who he mistakenly perceived to be a romantic rival. Bozzo resigned and the case is now under criminal investigation. Original source Cherry Hills, Colorado Date April 2026 Type Error Camera Flock A Colorado driver was repeatedly pulled over after officers mistakenly put his license plate number on a Flock hotlist. Original source Volusia County, Florida Date April 2026 Type Error Camera Flock Based on a Flock capture, officers mistook an innocent driver’s car for one that was at the scene of a deadly accident. The driver was jailed for 13 days. Original source Gwinnett County, Georgia Date April 2026 Type Stalking Camera Unspecified Officer Renee Downer was arrested and relieved of duty after allegedly using law enforcement databases, including a license plate reader system, to monitor the location of an ex-romantic partner. Original source Conyers, Georgia Date April 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Paige Forte, a supervisor in the Conyers Police Department’s Real-Time Crime Center, was fired and charged after allegedly using the Flock system to monitor her domestic partner’s location. Original source Mauldin, South Carolina Date March 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Officer Ellie Hammond was fired after using Flock cameras to track a former romantic partner 166 times. Original source Sherwood, Arkansas Date February 2026 Type Error Camera Flock A Flock camera misread a digit on an innocent couple’s vehicle, prompting officers to pull the over and order them out of the car at gunpoint. Original source Key West, Florida Date February 2026 Type Stalking Camera Guardian Sheriff’s Deputy Lamar Roman allegedly used an ALPR system to track and eventually pull over a woman he had met while providing security on a TV set. Roman was arrested and charged with accessing a computer or electronic device without authorization. Original source San Francisco, California Date February 2026 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock A San Francisco officer violated the department’s conflict-of-interest policy by obtaining Flock images of a relative’s stolen car and posting them to Instagram. Original source Richmond, Virginia Date January 2026 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock The Richmond Police Department shared Flock data with the FBI, a violation of a departmental policy banning sharing with federal authorities. Original source Reynoldsburg, Ohio Date January 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Reynoldsburg officer Mark Nichols resigned after an investigation found he searched for the license plates of a former domestic partner. Original source Shively, Kentucky Date January 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Officer Asad Zahir was suspended and is facing multiple criminal charges after allegedly searching the Flock system for his child’s mother thousands of times in the first several months of this year. Zahir was able to conduct the searches despite the woman having received an order of protection against him. Original source Kingsville, Texas Date January 2026 Type Stalking Camera Flock Detective Gabriel Garcia resigned in the midst of an investigation into an alleged 5,300 Flock searches “for personal reasons.” His surveillance targets included city officials in a nearby town who were in a relationship, one of whom he was also in a relationship with. Original source Kettering, Ohio Date January 2026 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock Kettering’s Flock system was used 184 times in January for immigration-related searches, despite a vow from the police chief that the cameras wouldn’t be used for that reason. Original source Shaker Heights, Ohio Date January 2026 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock For months, outside law enforcement agencies were using Shaker Heights’ cameras for immigration-related purposes, contrary to the city’s policy. Original source Jackson County, Indiana Date December 2025 Type Stalking Camera Flock Former deputy Skylar Thompson was fired and criminally charged for allegedly looking up his ex-girlfriend’s plate more than 2,000 times from January through August 2026. Original source Boulder County, Colorado Date December 2025 Type Error Camera Flock Another Colorado driver was repeatedly pulled over after officers mistakenly put her license plate number on a Flock hotlist. Original source Greer, South Carolina Date December 2025 Type Stalking Camera Flock Former Police Corporal Kareem Lynch was fired after an internal audit revealed he had allegedly used the department’s Flock system to monitor the whereabouts of a subordinate with whom he had a previous relationship. Original source Statenville, Georgia Date December 2025 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Anna Altobello, a secretary at the Echols County Sheriff’s Office, was charged with multiple offenses after allegedly using the Flock system to search for people she knew personally. Original source Columbus, Ohio Date November 2025 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Officer Joseph Houseberg used the Flock system to investigate another driver with whom he was involved in a crash, in violation of department policy. Original source San Diego, California Date November 2025 Type Error Camera Flock Based on a Flock capture, officers mistook an innocent driver’s car for one that was at the scene of an attempted carjacking. The driver was jailed for nearly one month. Original source Bonner Springs, Kansas Date November 2025 Type Stalking Camera Flock Detective Kyle Rector allegedly used license plate readers to track his estranged wife and two men he suspected were her new romantic partners. He was charged with multiple crimes in March 2026. Original source Eagan, Minnesota Date November 2025 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock Out-of-state agencies were able to search Twin Cities suburbs’ license plate data for civil immigration enforcement, despite Minnesota law limiting such data to criminal cases only. Original source Dunwoody, Georgia Date October 2025 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Officer Jessica Preston was fired after allegedly using the Flock system to look up the license plate of a man her colleague was romantically involved with, at the colleague’s request, due to concerns over her safety. Original source Lenexa, Kansas Date October 2025 Type Other Misuse Camera Unspecified Lenexa police allegedly used license plate readers to track the movements of a writer who wrote a column critical of them. Original source Joplin, Missouri Date October 2025 Camera Flock Officer Kenneth Andersen resigned and was placed under investigation after allegedly improperly searching for a license plate number hundreds of times. Several months later he was criminally charged after investigators determined he was using police databases to monitor multiple girlfriends. Original source Niceville, Florida Date October 2025 Type Stalking Camera Flock Former Niceville Officer Coty Hall pleaded no contest to several charges after using the department’s Flock system to track another officer and that officer’s spouse. Hall’s misconduct was discovered via an internal audit; Hall was fired following his arrest in October 2025. Original source Menasha, Wisconsin Date October 2025 Type Stalking Camera Flock Officer Cristian Morales was placed on leave and charged with misconduct in office after his ex-girlfriend filed a complaint alleging that he used a Flock system to track her. Original source Sandy Springs, Georgia Date October 2025 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock Reserve Sgt. Francis Esposito was fired after transferring Flock data to a private company he also worked for. Original source Story County, Iowa Date October 2025 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock Authorities in Story County discovered that other police agencies had obtained access to their Flock data without permission in October 2025. Original source Katy, Texas Date October 2025 Type Stalking Camera Flock Officer Sergio Rodriguez was fired and indicted for allegedly using the Flock system to track his ex-partner more than 2,000 times over a period of 11 months. Original source Fort Pierce, Florida Date October 2025 Type Stalking Camera Flock Fort Pierce officer Josepher Crutchfield was charged with four database misuse felonies after allegedly using the Flock system to track his ex-girlfriend hundreds of times. Crutchfield’s abuse of the system came to light after a media outlet contacted the department. Original source Denver, Colorado Date September 2025 Type Error Camera Flock An officer misinterpreted Flock captures to blame an innocent woman for series of thefts. Original source Prairie Grove, Illinois Date September 2025 Type Stalking Camera Flock Officer William C. Copp, who also served as the police chief of nearby Holiday Hills, was arrested after searching Flock for several former romantic partners and at least one of their new partners. Copp has been fired from his Prairie Grove position and his employment with Holiday Hills is under review. Original source Kenosha County, Wisconsin Date September 2025 Type Stalking Camera Flock Sheriff’s Deputy Frank McGrath resigned with severance pay after internal investigators found he used the department’s Flock system to keep tabs on another deputy with whom he was romantically involved. He was charged with two felonies in August 2026. Original source Jefferson County, Colorado Date August 2025 Type Error Camera Flock Yet another Colorado driver was repeatedly pulled over after officers mistakenly put her license plate number on a Flock hotlist. Original source Redmond, Washington Date August 2025 Type Error Camera Flock After data in the Flock system incorrectly linked a suspect’s vehicle to his innocent father, officers detained the wrong man. Original source Racine County, Wisconsin Date August 2025 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Racine County Sheriff’s Deputy Emil Ortiz was demoted and suspended for improperly using Flock to assist his girlfriend in a dispute with her ex-boyfriend. Original source Springfield, Illinois Date August 2025 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock An audit by the Illinois Secretary of State found that Customs and Border Protection gained access to Illinois license plate camera data, a violation of state law. Original source Colleton County, South Carolina Date August 2025 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Lt. Ruben Carter was fired after allegedly making 2,700 unauthorized Flock searches of himself, fellow deputies, and other people he knew. Original source Porter County, Indiana Date August 2025 Type Stalking Camera Flock Porter County sheriff’s Lt. Michael Piazza was demoted, suspended without pay and barred from using the department’s Flock after an investigation found he conducted unauthorized searches with the Flock system. According to NWI.com reporting, the searches were related to a woman Piazza had been having an affair with. Original source Revere, Massachusetts Date August 2025 Type Stalking Camera Flock Revere police officer Michael Tiso was temporarily suspended without pay for using the Flock system to track his former girlfriend. The abuse was discovered after the girlfriend filed a complaint with the police department. Original source Richmond, Virginia Date July 2025 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock The administrator of Richmond’s license plate reader system granted access to the system of an analyst with the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms. That analyst subsequently made searches for immigration enforcement in violation of department policy. Original source Richmond County, Georgia Date July 2025 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Investigator Curtis Hopkins was one of three Richmond County sheriff’s officers arrested in July after allegedly misusing the Flock system more than 100 times each. According to sources interviewed by the Augusta Press, some of the searches allegedly involved tracking women. Original source Richmond County, Georgia Date July 2025 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Lieutenant John McKenzie was one of three Richmond County sheriff’s officers arrested in July after allegedly misusing the Flock system more than 100 times each. According to sources interviewed by the Augusta Press, some of the searches allegedly involved tracking women. Original source Richmond County, Georgia Date July 2025 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Deputy Joshua Johnson was one of three Richmond County sheriff’s officers arrested in July after allegedly misusing the Flock system more than 100 times each. According to sources interviewed by the Augusta Press, some of the searches allegedly involved tracking women. Original source Joliet, Illinois Date July 2025 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Lieutenant Jeremy Harrison was fired from the agency after using Flock cameras to track the location of a female officer. Original source Jerome County, Idaho Date July 2025 Type Stalking Camera Flock Sheriff George Oppedyk used a Flock system to search for his wife’s vehicle hundreds of times. Idaho’s Attorney General concluded that no crime was committed, but Oppedyk retired in April 2026, two years before his term of office ended. Original source Winnebago County, Illinois Date July 2025 Type Stalking Camera Unspecified Former Sheriff’s Deputy Tyler Bryan was charged with stalking and official misconduct after allegedly using the department’s ALPR system to monitor the locations of an ex-girlfriend and her new partner. The misconduct came to light after the victims filed for an order of protection against Bryan. Original source Athens, Georgia Date July 2025 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock A civilian employee at the University of Georgia police department was demoted and suspended without pay for using the Flock system to investigate off-campus incidents he had a personal interest in. Original source Richmond County, Georgia Date June 2025 Type Stalking Camera Flock Former Deputy Jaquarius Yarbrough was arrested after allegedly using the Flock system to track the license plate of a woman he’d been having an affair with 1,639 times over several months. Original source Berkeley, Illinois Date June 2025 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Officer Terrance Mastrino resigned in the middle of an investigation into alleged misuse of the Flock system triggered by an individual who had discovered their plate had been looked up on HaveIBeenFlocked. Original source Athens, Georgia Date June 2025 Type Stalking Camera Flock Athens-Clarke County Police Department intelligence analyst Nick Barker was fired and referred to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation for potential criminal charges after allegedly tracking his ex-wife multiple times in 2025. Original source Greer, South Carolina Date May 2025 Type Stalking Camera Flock Former Greer Officer Sebastian Echeverry was fired after allegedly using the department’s Flock system for personal use. According to FITSNews reporting, “at least one of Echeverry’s unauthorized searches allegedly targeted his ex-girlfriend.” Original source Johnson County, Texas Date May 2025 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock An officer with the Johnson County Sheriff’s Office ran a nationwide Flock search for a woman suspected of having an abortion. Original source Sarasota, Florida Date May 2025 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Former Sarasota officer Cory Waiters was fired and arrested after an investigation determined he looked up a license plate hundreds of times for a non-law enforcement reason. The investigation was prompted by a query from a reporter. Original source Waukesha County, Wisconsin Date May 2025 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock Multiple Waukesha County deputies performed more than 100 Flock searches of Napoleon Jones’ car, allegedly in retaliation for Jones filing a complaint against one of the deputies. Original source Akron, Ohio Date April 2025 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock An Akron Police Department analyst and officer tracked a prominent activist who had been critical of police using “activist recording” as the reason for the search, which violated department policy Original source Boston, Massachusetts Date April 2025 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock Flock Safety was allowing outside agencies to access Boston’s Flock data, violating the terms of city’s contract. Original source Braintree, Massachusetts Date April 2025 Type Stalking Camera Flock Former Braintree detective Mark Sherrick resigned in the midst of an investigation into his alleged use of Flock cameras and other technology to harass his ex-girlfriend, looking up her license plate more than 1,000 times. Original source Louisville, Kentucky Date March 2025 Type Stalking Camera Flock Officer Roberto Cedeno was charged with multiple felonies after allegedly using the city’s ALPR system to track an ex-partner and her friends hundreds of times over two months. Original source Milwaukee, Wisconsin Date March 2025 Type Stalking Camera Flock Officer Josue Ayala allegedly used the department’s network of Flock ALPRs to track a woman he was dating and her ex-partner nearly 180 times over a two-month period. Ayala resigned in 2026 after being charged with misconduct in public office. Original source Cumberland, Rhode Island Date March 2025 Type Error Camera Flock A woman filed an unlawful arrest lawsuit against the town after officers attempted to use a Flock photo to identify a driver of a car they were pursuing, and subsequently arrested the wrong person. Original source Oak Ridge, Tennessee Date February 2025 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Former Officer Zachary Gauthier received 23 charges of official misconduct for misusing data systems, including Flock license plate readers, for personal reasons. Original source East Cleveland, Ohio Date February 2025 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Officer Latasha Moore allegedly used a license plate reader system to find the location of someone with whom she was in a “personal relationship.” Original source Louisville, Kentucky Date February 2025 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock A Louisville detective was disciplined after sharing his Flock login with a DEA agent in violation of city policy. Original source Matteson, Illinois Date December 2024 Type Stalking Camera Flock According to internal documents obtained by stopflock.org, Officer Jaila Cole-Clark ran hundreds of Flock searches for her former domestic partner and that individual’s new partner. Cole-Clark resigned from department in the middle of the investigation. Original source Tulsa, Oklahoma Date December 2024 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock According to an investigation by the Electronic Frontier Foundation, police agencies across the country logged hundreds of searches related to political protests between December 2024 and October 2025. Original source Oklahoma City, Oklahoma Date December 2024 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock According to public records obtained by DeFlock OKC, Oklahoma City Sergeant Keenan Heskett received a three-day suspension after searching the Flock database for personal reasons over a period of several months. The police department investigated Heskett’s Flock use after receiving a complaint from a member of the public. Original source Chatham County, Georgia Date December 2024 Camera Flock In August 2026, an unnamed Chatham County officer resigned after being questioned about alleged misuse of the Flock system that occurred in late 2024 and early 2025. Original source Albany County, New York Date December 2024 Type Stalking Camera Flock Investigator Laurie Moore was criminally charged after running more than 4,000 unauthorized Flock searches, including 3,000 searches for her ex-girlfriend’s vehicle. Original source Louisville, Kentucky Date November 2024 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock In September 2026 Louisville officer Wesley Troutman, who had previously been disciplined for sharing his Flock login with a DEA agent, was again put under investigation for allegedly searching for a colleague’s vehicle. Original source Highland Heights, Ohio Date October 2024 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock A part-time Highland Heights dispatcher resigned amid allegations of improperly using the Flock system thousands of times over a period of several years. Original source Haines City, Florida Date September 2024 Type Stalking Camera Flock Haines City officer Christopher Goodson was put on leave and arrested after an investigation revealed he searched the Flock database for his estranged wife’s car more than 700 times between September 1, 2024 and June 30, 2026. Original source West Chester, Ohio Date August 2024 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock Former officer Michelle Berling was sentenced to five years of probation after allegedly tampering with Flock data and images. Original source Shelby County, Tennessee Date August 2024 Type Stalking Camera Unspecified Deputy Thadius Gordon was relieved of duty after allegedly using an ALPR database to track his ex-wife’s location more than 100 times. Original source San Francisco, California Date August 2024 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock Out-of-state authorities ran more than 1.6 million searches of the city’s license plate reader data, including searches for immigration enforcement purposes, which are illegal under state law. Original source Eastpointe, Michigan Date August 2024 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed Eastpointe officer faced “severe discipline” after searching for a single license plate more than 600 times over the course of 10 months. The improper use was first discovered by reporters from USA Today. Original source Lafayette, Indiana Date July 2024 Type Error Camera Flock Officers detained an innocent man at gunpoint after a Flock camera misread his license plate. Original source Braselton, Georgia Date July 2024 Type Stalking Camera Flock Police Chief Michael Steffman was arrested after allegedly using license plate readers to stalk and harass multiple people, including a former romantic partner. Steffman resigned shortly before his arrest. Original source Braselton, Georgia Date July 2024 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed Braselton officer was fired and referred for criminal prosecution after allegedly misusing the Flock system in 2024 and 2025. Original source Eastpointe, Michigan Date July 2024 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock An unnamed officer was placed under investigation after an unspecified Flock policy violation involving looking up the same plate 60 times in a single day. The misuse was first discovered by reporters with USA Today. Original source Morristown, Tennessee Date June 2024 Type Error Camera Flock After a Flock camera misread an “O” as a “0,” officers detained two grandparents at gunpoint while their three-year-old granddaughter watched from the car. Original source Riverside County, California Date June 2024 Type Stalking Camera Flock After being arrested for kidnapping his ex-fiance, Deputy Alexander Vanny allegedly used the department’s Flock system to track one of her friends. In December 2025 he was convicted of multiple charges in a jury trial. Original source Orange City, Florida Date June 2024 Type Stalking Camera Flock Officer Jarmarus Brown allegedly used ALPRs to stalk his girlfriend and her family members more than 100 times over seven months. Brown was arrested and charged in 2025. Original source Houston, Texas Date June 2024 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock An analysis by the Houston Chronicle found that the overwhelming majority of Flock searches by Houston Police Department employees offered minimal or no justification for the search. Original source Polk County, Georgia Date June 2024 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Former officer Tracey Royston was arrested and criminally charged after allegedly using another department’s Flock system for non-law enforcement purposes. Original source Dallas, Georgia Date June 2024 Type Stalking Camera Flock Heidi Taylor, the former 911 director for the Dallas, Georgia police department, was arrested and charged with misuse of a license plate reader system after the Georgia Bureau of Investigation found that she accessed the Flock system “for reasons unrelated to law enforcement between 2024 and 2025.” Original source Stow, Massachusetts Date June 2024 Type Stalking Camera Flock The Stow Police Department placed officer Jason Rogers on unpaid leave and filed a criminal complaint against him after Rogers allegedly used Flock and other databases to stalk a former romantic partner who said she had changed her identity to escape from his abuse. The victim discovered Rogers had been stalking her by using the HaveIBeenFlocked website. Original source Chesterton, Indiana Date June 2024 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Former Chesterton police corporal Christopher Schoof resigned after learning he was under investigation for alleged misuse of the Flock system. The alleged misuse came to light after a new agency noticed irregularities in HaveIBeenFlocked data and contacted the police department. Original source North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina Date May 2024 Type Error Camera Unspecified Officers misidentified a vehicle based on an ALPR alert, detaining an innocent teenager at gunpoint. Original source Toledo, Ohio Date April 2024 Type Error Camera Flock After a Flock camera misread a “7” as a “2,” officers detained an innocent driver at gunpoint, sicced their dog on him, and jailed him for several hours. Original source Coffee County, Georgia Date April 2024 Type Stalking Camera Flock Former Coffee County Sheriff’s Deputy Chris Rozar was charged with multiple criminal offenses after allegedly using the department’s Flock system to stalk a woman he was romantically interested in. Rozar resigned several weeks into the investigation. Original source York County, South Carolina Date February 2024 Type Error Camera Flock An innocent motorist was detained at gunpoint after a Flock ALPR misread a character on his license plate, flagging the car as stolen. The sheriff’s office claimed the misread was due to a tinted license plate cover. Original source Milwaukee, Wisconsin Date January 2024 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Detective Tehrangi Chapman was charged with misconduct after allegedly using the Flock system to track the movements of two people over a period of one year. His abuse came to light after he was assigned to investigate the misconduct of Josue Ayala, another Milwaukee officer charged with misusing the system. Original source Columbus, Ohio Date November 2023 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Officer Melvin Tellis was relieved of duty after allegedly searching for the same license plate hundreds of times between November 2023 and December 2024. The city of Columbus paused its Flock program after Tellis’ misuse was discovered. Original source Sedgwick County, Kansas Date October 2023 Type Error Camera Flock After a Flock camera failed to distinguish between temporary and permanent license plates, sheriff’s deputies detained an innocent couple at gunpoint. Original source Sedgwick, Kansas Date October 2023 Type Stalking Camera Flock Police Chief Lee Nygaard resigned after using Flock cameras to track his ex-girlfriend and her new boyfriend more than 200 times over several months. Original source Cherokee County, Georgia Date October 2023 Type Non Law-Enforcement Use Camera Flock Deputy Jerry Shellhouse was fired and charged for alleged improper use of the Flock system starting in October 2023. Original source Detroit, Michigan Date September 2023 Type Error Camera Unspecified Officers misinterpreted ALPR data and detained an innocent woman at gunpoint, put her autistic child in the back seat of a police car, and impounded her vehicle for several weeks. Original source Houston, Texas Date August 2023 Type Error Camera Flock Officers misinterpreated a Flock alert and detained two innocent men at gunpoint. Original source Fayetteville, North Carolina Date July 2023 Type Error Camera Rekor Officers misinterpreted ALPR data and detained an innocent woman at gunpoint. Original source Espanola, New Mexico Date July 2023 Type Error Camera Flock After a Flock camera misread a digit of their license plate, officers detained two innocent sisters at gunpoint. Original source Espanola, New Mexico Date July 2023 Type Error Camera Flock After officers entered incorrect information into the ALPR system, officers detained an innocent teenager at gunpoint. Original source Dayton, Ohio Date July 2023 Type Other Misuse Camera Flock More than 140 law enforcement agencies nationwide accessed Dayton’s Flock camera system for immigration-related searches over a period of several years, despite such searches not being allowed under city policy. Original source Costa Mesa, California Date June 2023 Type Stalking Camera Flock Officer Robert Josett used a Flock camera system to track his mistress and her other romantic interests. Josett pleaded guilty to multiple criminal charges in April 2026. Original source Jackson Township, Ohio Date March 2023 Type Error Camera Flock After officers failed to remove a license plate from a hot list, they pulled over and detained an innocent driver. Original source Roseville, California Date January 2023 Type Error Camera Flock Flock sent 1,427 alerts to Roseville police over two years, flagging cars as stolen or used in a felony. In 71% of them, the cameras read the plates incorrectly. Original source Kechi, Kansas Date October 2022 Type Stalking Camera Flock Kechi Lieutenant Victor Heiar pleaded guilty to computer crime and stalking after using Flock cameras to track his estranged wife. Original source Charlotte, North Carolina Date July 2022 Type Error Camera NDI An ALPR hit led to an innocent woman’s arrest after officers entered incorrect information into the license plate reader system. Original source Greenville, South Carolina Date February 2022 Type Error Camera Unspecified After officers failed to remove a recovered rental vehicle from a hot list, officers detained two innocent women after they drove past a license plate camera. Original source Fort Bend County, Texas Date January 2022 Type Stalking Camera Flock A Fort Bend County Sheriff’s Office Lieutenant used Flock cameras to monitor the locations of multiple people dozens of times starting January 2022. One of those people was in a “contentious familial relationship” with the lieutenant. The lieutenant was suspended for two days. Original source Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania Date September 2021 Type Stalking Camera Unspecified Officer Michael McSherry pleaded guilty to stalking charges after using readers to track his estranged wife and other family members. Original source Atherton, California Date April 2021 Type Error Camera Unspecified After an ALPR misread a license plate that was partially obscured by dirt, officers detained the driver at gunpoint. Original source Aurora, Colorado Date August 2020 Type Error Camera Unspecified After an ALPR misread a minivan’s license plate, officers detained a woman and four children at gunpoint. Original source Hercules, California Date November 2018 Type Error Camera Vigilant After officers failed to update a hot list about a stolen rental vehicle that had been recovered, a Vigilant ALPR flagged the vehicle and the driver and his brother were detained at gunpoint. Original source No incidents match the selected filters. Methodology Incidents of abuse were identified using media reports and public records. Incidents involving vehicle-mounted ALPR systems, speed cameras, red light cameras and toll cameras are not included: only stationary, always-on ALPR systems are included due to the unique risks they pose. Dates reflect when the misuse began, if known, or when it was first publicly reported. Category definitions Stalking – incidents in which an officer used an ALPR system to track the location of a romantic partner (current, former, or prospective), a romantic rival, or a family member. Error – incidents in which an ALPR camera misread a vehicle’s plate, or an officer misinterpreted ALPR data. Non-law-enforcement use – incidents in which an officer misused an ALPR system in a personal or otherwise unspecified manner. Other misuse – incidents involving policy violations, unauthorized data sharing, and other miscellaneous forms of abuse. Is Government Tracking Your Every Move? IJ is fighting to restore constitutional limits on surveillance — for every American. Submit a Case Support IJ Share About the Author CI Christopher Ingraham cingraham@ij.org In This Article 01 Database of ALPR abuse Featured Case Related Case · San Jose, California San Jose License Plate Readers View the Case → Primary Issue IJ Issue Area 4th Amendment Project License Plate Readers › Open Fields Doctrine › Third Party Doctrine › Help IJ keep fighting for constitutional rights nationwide. $25 $50 $100 Other Give Now More on License Plate Readers License Plate Readers Institute for Justice Unveils New Database Tracking Cancelations of License Plate Reader Contracts Dan King · August 26, 2026 License Plate Readers Public Interest Law Firm That Uncovered Federal Border Surveillance Scheme Applauds Senator Markey for Sounding Alarm Dan King · November 25, 2025 License Plate Readers As Abuses Mount Nationwide, Administration Calls on Court to Reject Lawsuit Challenging Constitutionality of License Plate Readers Dan King · September 29, 2025 Stay Informed Sign up to receive IJ's biweekly digital magazine, Liberty & Law , along with breaking updates about our fight to protect the rights of all Americans. Name * First Last Email * Yes, I want a hard copy, too! Yes, send me the magazine by mail, too! Address * Street Address City State / Province Alabama Alaska American Samoa Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Guam Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Northern Mariana Islands Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah US Virgin Islands Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Europe Armed Forces Pacific State ZIP Code Please note we do not mail the magazine outside the United States except to APO/FPO addresses. Menu ABOUT US About Us Financial Reports Board of Directors State Offices Staff Careers Students Liberty & Law Contact Us WHAT WE DO Litigation Activism Research Legislation IJ Clinic on Entrepreneurship Center for Judicial Engagement CASES IJ’s Cases Supreme Court Cases Amicus Briefs Complete Case List ISSUES Economic Liberty Educational Choice Private Property First Amendment Immunity and Accountability MEDIA News and Updates IJ in the News Press Releases Liberty & Law Podcasts Short Circuit SUPPORT IJ Support IJ Donate Online Donate Stock Monthly Giving Donate Through Your IRA Planned Gifts Partners Club Guardians Circle Employer Matching Additional Ways to Give Search Submit a Case Give Now Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram TikTok 901 N. Glebe Road, Suite 900 Arlington, VA 22203 P: (703) 682 9320 © Institute for Justice 2026 IJ® is a registered trademark of the Institute for Justice. The Institute for Justice is a 501(c)(3) organization; donations are tax-deductible to the fullest extent of the law. IJ’s tax ID number is 52-1744337. Privacy Policy Wait Notifications