--- page 1 ---
A Flock camera records drivers on the Texas 288 feeder road in Pearland on Aug. 23, 2026. 
Jon Shapley for The
Texas Tribune
DONATE
Austin ICE Shooting
Houston ISD Takeover
2026 Texas Ballot
U.S. Senate Polls
TribFest 202
POLITICS
Texas freezes installation of Flock cameras along
state roads
Gov. Greg Abbott ordered the state Department of Transportation to stop issuing permits for automated
license plate readers.
BY AYDEN RUNNELS
SEPT. 17, 2026, 5:10 P.M. CENTRAL

--- page 2 ---
Listen to this article
Texas freezes installation of Flock cameras along state roads
About 2 Minutes
1x
Audio recording is automated for accessibility. Humans wrote and edited the story. See our AI policy, and give us
feedback.
At Gov. Greg Abbott’s direction, the Texas Department of Transportation has stopped issuing
permits allowing Flock cameras and other automated license plate readers to be installed along
state roads.
The pause, confirmed Thursday by an agency spokesperson, does not affect cameras already
installed along state rights-of-way, including more than 900 cameras operated by the Texas
Department of Public Safety.
“TxDOT’s role is to review permits to ensure license plate readers are installed correctly and
safely along state-owned roadways,” an agency spokesperson said in a statement. “This
suspension also includes agreements that are approved but not yet installed.”
TxDOT clarified that it approves permits for the cameras but does not install the devices, nor
does the agency have access to data from Flock cameras installed along state roads.
A presentation about Flock cameras from the police chief in Schertz, a city northeast of San
Antonio, said the pause began Sept. 8. TxDOT did not immediately confirm when the pause
began.
Use of the cameras, which scan all passing vehicles to compile license plate numbers and other
identifying data into an easily searched database, has raised mounting privacy concerns.
TxDOT’s pause followed Gov. Greg Abbott’s late August order blocking state funding for
Flock cameras as The Texas Tribune prepared to publish an investigation into a small state
agency that directed at least $30 million to help fund more than 3,200 Flock cameras across
Texas.
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis on Aug. 31 ordered his state’s transportation department to remove
the cameras from state roads, saying he didn’t want “a surveillance state.”

--- page 3 ---
© 2026 The Texas Tribune
Powered by Newspack
There were an estimated 13,000 Flock cameras across Texas in August, but hundreds of the
devices have been shut down after Abbott’s funding freeze.
City councils and county commissions across the state have also been unplugging their cameras
in response to pressure from residents who cite privacy concerns and a growing number of
police who were arrested or investigated for misusing Flock cameras to stalk people.
Law enforcement agencies have defended the cameras as a highly effective crime-solving tool
that can be effective in reducing vehicle theft and locating missing people.