SFPD Flock cameras: city report finds no sanctuary breach Close Donate Newsletters Advertise Sign In Search for: Search Ways to Give to Mission Local News by Topic Election Coverage Business Trouble Covering the Police Housing Sports Tech AI Community Government Column by Joe Eskenazi The Arts Immigration Food Education News by Neighborhood Bayview-Hunters Point The Mission The Richmond The Sunset Tenderloin Explore Data Projects Events Snaps from Readers News Archive About Us Our Board Our Donors Careers at Mission Local Internships Advertising Corrections Editorial ethics Noticias en Español 中文 Close Ways to Give to Mission Local News by Topic Election Coverage Business Trouble Covering the Police Housing Sports Tech AI Community Government Column by Joe Eskenazi The Arts Immigration Food Education News by Neighborhood Bayview-Hunters Point The Mission The Richmond The Sunset Tenderloin Explore Data Projects Events Snaps from Readers News Archive About Us Our Board Our Donors Careers at Mission Local Internships Advertising Corrections Editorial ethics Noticias en Español 中文 Skip to content Menu Mission Local Local news for a global city Donate Newsletters Advertise Sign In Open Search Search for: Search Donate Menu Sign In Posted in Covering the Police City report on Flock cameras finds no sanctuary violation by SFPD — but urges tighter oversight Report finds that San Francisco police did not know setting on Flock cameras allowed feds to access them by Clara-Sophia Daly and Frankie Solinsky Duryea September 28, 2026, 9:36 pm September 28, 2026, 9:43 pm Share this: Share Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email A Flock camera in San Francisco's Mission District. Photo by Frankie Solinsky Duryea. In a Monday report , the San Francisco Human Rights Commission found that the city’s police department did not violate city sanctuary law after out-of-state agencies searched its license plate data, some on behalf of federal immigration authorities. Nevertheless, the report made five recommendations as to how the police department could tighten oversight of the surveillance cameras. The San Francisco Police Department runs over 400 AI-powered surveillance cameras, called automated license plate readers, through the controversial private company Flock Safety. With Flock’s powerful search feature, officers can scan through photos of cars taken up to 12 months ago and follow their movement. But this technology is not only being used by local police. Federal agencies, including Immigration and Customs Enforcement, were able to access data collected from the cameras. The police department this summer revealed that federal and out-of-state agencies “improperly” accessed city Flock data hundreds of times; the San Francisco Standard had earlier reported 1.6 million such illegal searches between 2024 and 2025. The Human Rights Commission report, conducted over the course of 10 months and released Monday, addressed whether or not the SFPD violated sanctuary laws by unknowingly sharing license plate data with out-of-state agencies. It concluded that the police did not violate city rules. The Commission wrote that there was no violation because Flock is a contractor, and a national search feature was turned on by Flock without police department knowledge. “While the evidence does not support a finding against SFPD … HRC’s investigation shows that SFPD’s contractor allowed city resources to be utilized to arguably assist in enforcement of federal immigration law,” reads the report. But the report still found problems with the system’s status quo and made five recommendations: The department should require officers to document a specific reason for each search and set clearer standards for who can access the data; The SFPD should take direct control of Flock’s “Nationwide Lookup” feature, which enables the feds to access local data instead of leaving that setting to the company; The SFPD should enable all options on the cameras to bolster public transparency; The police should wipe license plate data after 30 days, and; The SFPD should hold regular reviews with Flock to stay abreast of changes to the technology. That final recommendation was especially germane, noted the report, as the SFPD did not initially know that Flock had enabled national searches, allowing the feds to seamlessly access data from San Francisco cameras. The report also suggested the SFPD consider vendors other than Flock, citing reports that Flock has misrepresented its data-sharing practices. You're using an ad blocker . That's OK. Mission Local is a nonprofit newsroom. We rely on readers to support our free reporting. Subscribe to our free newsletter and support us a better way. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. You follow public safety . So do we. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. “Safe and informed use of Flock technologies is essential to maintain constituent trust in enforcement of privacy safeguards related to federal immigration enforcement,” reads the report. Flock cameras remain popular among city officials. The San Francisco Democratic Party voted overwhelmingly to uphold the city’s use of the cameras, though some candidates for office have pushed for stricter guardrails . In its initial response to the Human Rights Commission, in January, the police department said it was “shocked and disappointed” to find out that data from its license plate readers was searched by agencies outside California. The search tool is presently disabled, and Chief Derrick Lew said in January no data had been unknowingly shared since mid-February 2025. But Lew in June told the Police Commission that the department was uncertain if data had been shared through 299 other queries by out-of-state and federal agencies that came through a regional intelligence center between May 2025 and May 2026, according to the report. The chief of police, for his part, pushed back and stated that the Human Rights Commission overstepped in providing policy recommendations. Advocates for data security, meanwhile, felt the recommendations were insufficient. Angela Chan, assistant chief attorney at the San Francisco Public Defenders Office, said Flock has enabled federal immigration authorities to surveil people and help “facilitate mass deportations,” while also showing that “it cannot be trusted with our data.” She said San Francisco should not renew its Flock contract. Rindala Alajaji, associate director of state affairs at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, agreed: “The issue at hand here is people’s lives.” There's a lot on the ballot, but we've got you covered. This November, San Franciscans will weigh in on 30+ candidates, 10 ballot measures, and a host of other regional and state propositions. But fear not: Mission Local is covering it all. We have the most in-depth election reporting in San Francisco, covering every race up and down the ballot. We're doing weekly questionnaires of every major candidate, diving deep into the money behind the election, and analyzing what it all means. We think that's critical to a city like this. And we think it's critical that election reporting remain free for all to read , because every voter deserves to know where candidates stand. Support our election coverage! Thanks to more than 3,000 donors, our election reporting is free. Will you join them? Latest on law enforcement Mayor Lurie tightens rules on Flock surveillance cameras S.F. Democratic Party stands behind Flock surveillance cameras in sweeping vote S.F.’s trailblazing pretrial program is closing. Its replacement isn’t ready. Tagged: ICE , immigration , police , SFPD , tech Clara-Sophia Daly clarasophia@missionlocal.com Clara-Sophia Daly is an award-winning journalist who covers immigration for Mission Local. Previously, she reported for the Miami Herald, where she covered education and worked on the investigative team. She graduated with honors from Skidmore College, where she studied International Affairs and Media/Film, and later earned a master’s degree from Columbia Journalism School. Her reporting portfolio includes investigations into a gymnastics coach who abused his students for more than a decade — work that led to his arrest. She also covered the privatization of Florida’s public education system, state-funded anti-abortion pregnancy centers, and the deputization of university police officers under federal immigration programs. A Bay Area native, she first joined Mission Local as an intern for a year during the pandemic — and is excited to be back writing stories about immigration. Got a tip? Email her at clarasophia@missionlocal.com. Her signal is clarasophia.13 More by Clara-Sophia Daly Frankie Solinsky Duryea frankie@missionlocal.com Frankie Solinsky Duryea is a staff reporter covering criminal justice for Mission Local. He was born and raised in Burlingame, and he first worked with Mission Local as an intern in 2025, where he covered immigration and ICE. Frankie Solinsky Duryea's work has appeared elsewhere in the SF Chronicle and in SFGATE. He speaks Spanish fluently, and Arabic and French conversationally. You can contact him securely on signal @frankiesd.28 More by Frankie Solinsky Duryea Leave a comment Please keep your comments short and civil. Do not leave multiple comments under multiple names on one article. We will zap comments that fail to adhere to these short and easy-to-follow rules. Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Δ Mission Local reporters are your guides for this election. Donate today to make our election coverage possible. Donate Sign up for Mission Local's daily newsletter: The latest San Francisco news in your inbox. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. X Bluesky YouTube Facebook Instagram TikTok Mission Local produces enterprise reporting on San Francisco's most critical issues: police reform, corruption, public health, housing and homelessness. Learn more about us , and donate below keep us reporting . Subscribe to Mission Local's free newsletter Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. © 2026 Local news for a global city Powered by Newspack You're using an ad blocker . That's OK. Mission Local is a nonprofit newsroom. We rely on readers to support our free reporting. Subscribe to our free newsletter and support us a better way. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. Already a subscriber? Sign in You follow public safety . So do we. Get our weekly Public Safety newsletter, plus the Mission Local Daily. Both free. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. Already a subscriber? Sign in 30+ candidates, 10 local measures, and more — San Francisco ballots are going to be long in November. But we’ve got you covered. Donate today to keep our election coverage free for all. Donate Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. Sign in or register Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Go back Continue Set a password (optional) By signing up, you agree to our Terms and Conditions. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Verify your email Close We'll send a verification code to %EMAIL% . Send code Skip for now Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of Mission Local directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Mission Local Daily Continue Gift this article Close Link Copy link