S.F. Democratic Party votes to stand behind Flock surveillance cameras Close Donate Newsletters Advertise Sign In Search for: Search Ways to Give to Mission Local News by Topic Election Coverage Business Trouble Covering the Police Housing Sports Tech AI Community Government Column by Joe Eskenazi The Arts Immigration Food Education News by Neighborhood Bayview-Hunters Point The Mission The Richmond The Sunset Tenderloin Explore Data Projects Events Snaps from Readers News Archive About Us Our Board Our Donors Careers at Mission Local Internships Advertising Corrections Editorial ethics Noticias en Español 中文 Close Ways to Give to Mission Local News by Topic Election Coverage Business Trouble Covering the Police Housing Sports Tech AI Community Government Column by Joe Eskenazi The Arts Immigration Food Education News by Neighborhood Bayview-Hunters Point The Mission The Richmond The Sunset Tenderloin Explore Data Projects Events Snaps from Readers News Archive About Us Our Board Our Donors Careers at Mission Local Internships Advertising Corrections Editorial ethics Noticias en Español 中文 Skip to content Menu Mission Local Local news for a global city Donate Newsletters Advertise Sign In Open Search Search for: Search Donate Menu Sign In Posted in Government S.F. Democratic Party stands behind Flock surveillance cameras in sweeping vote Two Democratic committee members work for Flock, but were allowed to vote regardless by Frankie Solinsky Duryea September 24, 2026, 12:12 am September 24, 2026, 7:02 am Share this: Share Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Matt Dorsey and Gordon Mar at the San Francisco Democratic Committee meeting on September 23. Photo by Frankie Solinsky Duryea The San Francisco Democratic Party on Wednesday voted to continue its support for Flock surveillance cameras, which are in widespread use across the city but have come under scrutiny nationwide in recent months. Flock cameras scans license plates and some argue that they help law enforcement investigations while others say the information can be misused. Two major resolutions were in front of the party’s 31 members — 13 of whom were absent — on Wednesday. One, written by former District 4 supervisor Gordon Mar, called for the city to impose increased guardrails for Flock’s automated license plate readers and to consider suspension of its contract with the city. The other, written by committee chair Nancy Tung and District 6 supervisor and former police spokesperson Matt Dorsey, asked the group to affirm its trust in the city’s existing use of Flock cameras. Elsewhere in the Bay Area, city governments have turned off their Flock cameras and taken steps to cancel their contracts, in the wake of reports that these cameras have been repeatedly accessed by outside federal and state agencies without local authorization. At Wednesday’s San Francisco Democratic County Central Committee meeting, a majority voted to reject Mar’s resolution and pass Dorsey’s. Dorsey’s measure received 11 votes in favor, 4 votes abstaining, and only 3 against. You're using an ad blocker . That's OK. Mission Local is a nonprofit newsroom. We rely on readers to support our free reporting. Subscribe to our free newsletter and support us a better way. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. You follow City Hall . So do we. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. Both sides acknowledged that the city’s Flock camera data was illegally accessed more than 1.6 million times in 2024 and 2025, with lots of those searches reaching out-of-state agencies like ICE. And, more recently the SFPD admitted around 300 out-of-state illegal searches had happened in the last year. Supporters of Mar’s resolution saw threats to the city’s data security. Supporters of Dorsey’s said that they felt the benefits of Flock cameras outweighed the risks. “I’ve got some real concerns about privacy,” said committee member Patrick Boileau. “I’ve got some real concerns about surveillance. But I’ve also got some concerns about crime.” Mar raised another concern: Two of the committee’s current members — Lily Ho and Trevor Chandler — work for Flock. Last month, the San Francisco Standard reported that a prior version of Mar’s resolution was removed from the party’s agenda by a subcommittee chaired by Ho. Neither Ho nor Chandler offered to abstain from voting on Wednesday. Even without their votes, it would have passed. Their committee does not have rules related to conflicts of interest for issues like this one, Tung told Mar. They then proceeded to count both Ho and Chandler’s votes. In this matter, the San Francisco Democratic Party has little formal power. Its resolutions, at best, influence other party members. In February 2027, however, the Board of Supervisors may decide whether to renew the city’s Flock contract. Supervisors Connie Chan and Bilal Mahmood, who were absent from the county Democratic Party meeting Wednesday could weigh in at that time. There's a lot on the ballot, but we've got you covered. This November, San Franciscans will weigh in on 30+ candidates, 10 ballot measures, and a host of other regional and state propositions. But fear not: Mission Local is covering it all. We have the most in-depth election reporting in San Francisco, covering every race up and down the ballot. We're doing weekly questionnaires of every major candidate, diving deep into the money behind the election, and analyzing what it all means. We think that's critical to a city like this. And we think it's critical that election reporting remain free for all to read , because every voter deserves to know where candidates stand. Support our election coverage! Thanks to more than 3,000 donors, our election reporting is free. Will you join them? Latest on law enforcement S.F.’s trailblazing pretrial program is closing. Its replacement isn’t ready. S.F. sheriff opens up county jails to Discovery Channel treatment At South of Market police meeting, everyone wants more cops Tagged: SFPD Frankie Solinsky Duryea frankie@missionlocal.com Frankie Solinsky Duryea is a staff reporter covering criminal justice for Mission Local. He was born and raised in Burlingame, and he first worked with Mission Local as an intern in 2025, where he covered immigration and ICE. Frankie Solinsky Duryea's work has appeared elsewhere in the SF Chronicle and in SFGATE. He speaks Spanish fluently, and Arabic and French conversationally. You can contact him securely on signal @frankiesd.28 More by Frankie Solinsky Duryea Join the Conversation 2 Comments Mark says: September 24, 2026, 5:50 am at 5:50 am Great. This tops their handling/mishandling of sexual harassment. The reign of the SF Democratic Party has turned predictably rancid, or “moderate” according to ML. Time to resurrect the SF GOP. That party has a ton of “moderate” billionaire support, but can they possibly be as corrupt, hypocritical and stupid as SF Dems? Probably. +1 0 votes. Sign in to vote Reply Flock You says: September 24, 2026, 6:59 am at 6:59 am “We know there’s been illegal activity and we don’t care.” People to need to wake up and start holding these clowns accountable. +1 0 votes. Sign in to vote Reply Expand comments Leave a comment Please keep your comments short and civil. Do not leave multiple comments under multiple names on one article. We will zap comments that fail to adhere to these short and easy-to-follow rules. Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Δ Leave a comment Sign up for Mission Local's daily newsletter: The latest San Francisco news in your inbox. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. X Bluesky YouTube Facebook Instagram TikTok Mission Local produces enterprise reporting on San Francisco's most critical issues: police reform, corruption, public health, housing and homelessness. Learn more about us , and donate below keep us reporting . Subscribe to Mission Local's free newsletter Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. © 2026 Local news for a global city Powered by Newspack You're using an ad blocker . That's OK. Mission Local is a nonprofit newsroom. We rely on readers to support our free reporting. Subscribe to our free newsletter and support us a better way. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. Already a subscriber? Sign in You follow City Hall . So do we. Get our weekly Government newsletter, plus the Mission Local Daily. Both free. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. Already a subscriber? Sign in Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. Sign in or register Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Go back Continue Set a password (optional) By signing up, you agree to our Terms and Conditions. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Verify your email Close We'll send a verification code to %EMAIL% . Send code Skip for now Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of Mission Local directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Mission Local Daily Continue Gift this article Close Link Copy link