Billionaire-backed D10 candidate says he would restrict billionaire funding Close Donate Newsletters Advertise Sign In Search for: Search Ways to Give to Mission Local News by Topic Election Coverage Business Trouble Covering the Police Housing Sports Tech AI Community Government Column by Joe Eskenazi The Arts Immigration Food Education News by Neighborhood Bayview-Hunters Point The Mission The Richmond The Sunset Tenderloin Explore Data Projects Events Snaps from Readers News Archive About Us Our Board Our Donors Careers at Mission Local Internships Advertising Corrections Editorial ethics Noticias en Español 中文 Close Ways to Give to Mission Local News by Topic Election Coverage Business Trouble Covering the Police Housing Sports Tech AI Community Government Column by Joe Eskenazi The Arts Immigration Food Education News by Neighborhood Bayview-Hunters Point The Mission The Richmond The Sunset Tenderloin Explore Data Projects Events Snaps from Readers News Archive About Us Our Board Our Donors Careers at Mission Local Internships Advertising Corrections Editorial ethics Noticias en Español 中文 Skip to content Menu Mission Local Local news for a global city Donate Newsletters Advertise Sign In Open Search Search for: Search Donate Menu Sign In Posted in Election Coverage Theo Ellington, District 10 frontrunner backed by billionaire, says he’d restrict billionaire funding Candidate also said he would not renew SFPD Flock contract, and would ban data centers by Marina Newman October 1, 2026, 4:00 am October 1, 2026, 12:22 am Share this: Share Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Candidate Dion-Jay "DJ" Brookter (far left), Theo Ellington (second from left), J.R. Eppler (third from left), Pearci "PJ" Bastiany III (third from right), Deandra Bryant (second from right), and Shawn Richards (far right) pose at a forum held at the Southeast Community Center on September 30. Photo by Marina Newman. Theo Ellington, a frontrunner in the District 10 race who earlier this month benefitted from a $500,000 gift from a cryptocurrency billionaire , perhaps the largest donation in a supervisor race in San Francisco history, indicated Wednesday that he would restrict such gifts in the future. Ellington and other candidates at a Bayview forum were asked whether they would limit billionaire funding of PACs in local elections. Ellington held up a green sign to indicate a yes. An audience member gasped, likely in surprise: Ellington is backed by billionaire Chris Larsen, one of the city’s biggest political donors, who made the half-million dollar gift to a pro-Ellington PAC. Ellington is also backed by Y Combinator CEO Garry Tan and GrowSF, the tech-funded advocacy group. The candidate has generally sought to distance himself from tech donors supporting his campaign, however, as was evident again Wednesday evening. Once again that night, Ellington’s answers caused a stir: He indicated he would not vote to renew the San Francisco Police Department’s contract with Flock , a license-plate reader tool that has come under intense scrutiny nationwide. At that, an audible “Hm!” was heard from the audience at the youth-led forum, held at the Southeast Community Center. Ellington also said that he would support an all-out ban on data centers. You're using an ad blocker . That's OK. Mission Local is a nonprofit newsroom. We rely on readers to support our free reporting. Subscribe to our free newsletter and support us a better way. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. You follow the election . So do we. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. The answers were Ellington’s strongest stances yet against Flock and data centers: He previously told Mission Local he would support an expansion of the camera network but with stricter guidelines, and had supported a data center moratorium but not a total ban. His answers on Flock and data centers also put him at odds with many other San Francisco Democratic officials: The local party voted overwhelmingly to back Flock surveillance cameras in a recent vote, and few have called for a total data center ban. Data centers have become an issue in District 10: Bayview has two already and another proposed in Dogpatch. Supervisor Shamann Walton introduced a 45-day city-wide moratorium in September that sources say he hopes could lead to a ban. Wednesday’s forum, hosted by the 3rd Street Youth Center and Clinic and Chinese for Affirmative Action, featured Ellington, Dion-Jay “DJ” Brookter and J.R. Eppler, his top rivals and the only candidates who have raised significant funds, alongside three others: Pearci “PJ” Bastiany, Deandra Bryant, and Shawn Richards. There are 10 candidates set to appear on the November ballot for District 10 supervisor. Ellington’s answers were aligned with his top opponents’: Brookter and Eppler each said they would ban data centers, restrict billionaire spending in local elections, and not extend SFPD’s contract with Flock. Eppler, Brookter, and Ellington in fact agreed on six of eight policy-related lighting round questions: All said they would support Prop. 40, the California billionaire wealth tax, the regional transit tax measure, and mandating ethnic studies in San Francisco public schools. But when asked whether they would reject Proposition A, a charter amendment to streamline city commissions, or whether they believe the city is failing young residents in District 10, Ellington was the only dissenting vote. There's a lot on the ballot, but we've got you covered. This November, San Franciscans will weigh in on 30+ candidates, 10 ballot measures, and a host of other regional and state propositions. But fear not: Mission Local is covering it all. We have the most in-depth election reporting in San Francisco, covering every race up and down the ballot. We're doing weekly questionnaires of every major candidate, diving deep into the money behind the election, and analyzing what it all means. We think that's critical to a city like this. And we think it's critical that election reporting remain free for all to read , because every voter deserves to know where candidates stand. Support our election coverage! Thanks to more than 3,000 donors, our election reporting is free. Will you join them? Latest election coverage Christine Pelosi vows not to ‘ever’ run against Connie Chan, quashing rumors Manny Yekutiel’s accuser resurfaces sexual assault allegation at District 8 forum Mayor Lurie’s charter measures raise stunning $11M, more than all others combined Tagged: Bayview , Election 2026 , election coverage Marina Newman Staff Reporter marina@missionlocal.com Marina Newman is a staff reporter at Mission Local covering Bayview-Hunters Point. Marina began at Mission Local as an intern in 2025 and previously reported on national and international news for the Pacifica Evening News. Marina was born and raised in San Jose and graduated from UC Berkeley where she studied American Studies and Digital Journalism. You can reach her securely on Signal @marinanewman.12. More by Marina Newman Leave a comment Please keep your comments short and civil. Do not leave multiple comments under multiple names on one article. We will zap comments that fail to adhere to these short and easy-to-follow rules. Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Δ Mission Local reporters are your guides for this election. Donate today to make our election coverage possible. Donate Sign up for Mission Local's daily newsletter: The latest San Francisco news in your inbox. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. X Bluesky YouTube Facebook Instagram TikTok Mission Local produces enterprise reporting on San Francisco's most critical issues: police reform, corruption, public health, housing and homelessness. Learn more about us , and donate below keep us reporting . Subscribe to Mission Local's free newsletter Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. © 2026 Local news for a global city Powered by Newspack You're using an ad blocker . That's OK. Mission Local is a nonprofit newsroom. We rely on readers to support our free reporting. Subscribe to our free newsletter and support us a better way. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. Already a subscriber? Sign in You follow Bayview. So do we. A free biweekly newsletter from our dedicated Bayview reporter. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. Already a subscriber? Sign in 30+ candidates, 10 local measures, and more — San Francisco ballots are going to be long in November. But we’ve got you covered. Donate today to keep our election coverage free for all. Donate Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. Sign in or register Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Go back Continue Set a password (optional) By signing up, you agree to our Terms and Conditions. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Verify your email Close We'll send a verification code to %EMAIL% . Send code Skip for now Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of Mission Local directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Mission Local Daily Continue Gift this article Close Link Copy link