Manny Yekutiel scandal: Endorsers flock to rival Gary McCoy Close Donate Newsletters Advertise Sign In Search for: Search Ways to Give to Mission Local News by Topic Election Coverage Business Trouble Covering the Police Housing Sports Tech AI Community Government Column by Joe Eskenazi The Arts Immigration Food Education News by Neighborhood Bayview-Hunters Point The Mission The Richmond The Sunset Tenderloin Explore Data Projects Events Snaps from Readers News Archive About Us Our Board Our Donors Careers at Mission Local Internships Advertising Corrections Editorial ethics Noticias en Español 中文 Close Ways to Give to Mission Local News by Topic Election Coverage Business Trouble Covering the Police Housing Sports Tech AI Community Government Column by Joe Eskenazi The Arts Immigration Food Education News by Neighborhood Bayview-Hunters Point The Mission The Richmond The Sunset Tenderloin Explore Data Projects Events Snaps from Readers News Archive About Us Our Board Our Donors Careers at Mission Local Internships Advertising Corrections Editorial ethics Noticias en Español 中文 Skip to content Menu Mission Local Local news for a global city Donate Newsletters Advertise Sign In Open Search Search for: Search Donate Menu Sign In Posted in Election Coverage Endorsers flock to Gary McCoy after Manny Yekutiel’s exit from S.F. supervisor race by Io Yeh Gilman October 5, 2026, 12:00 pm October 6, 2026, 2:16 pm Share this: Share Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Gary McCoy speaks about his housing platform at a District 8 forum on August 10, 2026. Photo by Io Yeh Gilman. Fourteen politicians announced their endorsement of District 8 supervisor candidate Gary McCoy on Monday after Emanuel “Manny” Yekutiel dropped out of the race on Thursday. “I’m deeply honored to have such broad support from leaders across District 8, San Francisco, and even California — people who don’t always agree with each other, but who agree that we need a steady hand in City Hall advocating for our neighbors,” said McCoy, a former Nancy Pelosi aide. On Oct. 1, two men accused Yekutiel of sexually assaulting them, joining Brad Chapin, whose accusation was published on June 30. In the hours after Thursday’s allegations were published by the San Francisco Standard , most endorsers pulled their support from Yekutiel and, soon after, he dropped out. Now, several politicians who had initially supported Yekutiel, including Supervisors Bilal Mahmood, Danny Sauter and Stephen Sherrill, are endorsing McCoy. Others are making their first endorsements in the race, including labor activist Dolores Huerta, Supervisors Shamann Walton and Chyanne Chen, and State Sen. Scott Wiener, who was District 8 supervisor from 2011 to 2016. You're using an ad blocker . That's OK. Mission Local is a nonprofit newsroom. We rely on readers to support our free reporting. Subscribe to our free newsletter and support us a better way. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. You follow the election . So do we. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. With Yekutiel out, McCoy is now considered the front-runner in the race. He and Yekutiel had both been running on YIMBY platforms but diverged on drug use and public safety issues. McCoy, for instance, opposed SFPD’s use of Flock license-plate readers due to privacy concerns, while Yekutiel argued that they were helpful for solving crimes. McCoy’s list of supporters may yet grow. San Francisco’s chapter of the Democratic Party is meeting on Oct. 11 to reconsider its endorsement of Yekutiel, which is all but certain to be withdrawn. Notably missing from McCoy’s new list of supporters are Mayor Daniel Lurie and current District 8 Supervisor Rafael Mandelman. After withdrawing his endorsement from Yekutiel on Thursday, Lurie said he would not make another endorsement in the race. Mandelman, who initially stood by Yekutiel but then later withdrew his endorsement, did not respond to a request for comment. McCoy had already amassed a number of high-profile endorsements before today, including from Pelosi, San Francisco YIMBY, San Francisco Tenants Union, the San Francisco Labor Council, the Working Families Party, several city supervisors and two LGBTQ Democratic clubs. There's a lot on the ballot, but we've got you covered. This November, San Franciscans will weigh in on 30+ candidates, 10 ballot measures, and a host of other regional and state propositions. But fear not: Mission Local is covering it all. We have the most in-depth election reporting in San Francisco, covering every race up and down the ballot. We're doing weekly questionnaires of every major candidate, diving deep into the money behind the election, and analyzing what it all means. We think that's critical to a city like this. And we think it's critical that election reporting remain free for all to read , because every voter deserves to know where candidates stand. Support our election coverage! Thanks to more than 3,000 donors, our election reporting is free. Will you join them? Latest election coverage California billionaire tax faces an uphill battle. Can Bernie Sanders rally the troops? AI was the hot new topic at San Francisco’s first congressional debate See How They Run: Theo Ellington will choose a game of dominos over a birthday party any day Tagged: District 8 , Election 2026 , Supervisor Race 2026 Io Yeh Gilman Staff Reporter io@missionlocal.com Io is a staff reporter at Mission Local covering city hall and S.F. politics. She is a part of Report for America, which supports journalists in local newsrooms. Io was born and raised in San Francisco and previously reported on the city while working for her high school newspaper, The Lowell. She studied the history of science at Harvard and wrote for The Harvard Crimson. You can reach Io securely on Signal at ioyg.10 More by Io Yeh Gilman Join the Conversation 11 Comments Mark says: October 5, 2026, 2:47 pm at 2:47 pm Other than being a “steady hand” (instead of a moving hand?) and a lot of new endorsements, is there anything about Mr. McCoy that deserves those endorsements? +1 0 votes. Sign in to vote Reply Duh says: October 5, 2026, 2:54 pm at 2:54 pm I would love to see a Meet the Candidates question to the remaining 3 candidates along the lines of “which policies of yours would appeal the most to voters who were supporting Manny?”. They haven’t really differentiated themselves much policy wise. +1 0 votes. Sign in to vote Reply Billy says: October 5, 2026, 9:23 pm at 9:23 pm Manny supporters are responsible for figuring it out themselves. Anyone supporting him after the first allegations needs to do some HEAVY critical thinking practice anyway. Grow up, read up, and vote your own way. +1 -1 votes. Sign in to vote Reply Duh says: October 6, 2026, 3:24 am at 3:24 am Odd, I was under the impression someone running for office would want to “understand the needs of the constituents” and “get votes”. Sounds like you have lower standards for a politician than I do! 0 0 votes. Sign in to vote Reply Ron says: October 6, 2026, 5:41 am at 5:41 am Duh, I think that is right. D8 is a moderate district and has been ever since I lived here. It deserves a moderate supervisor. And yet the three candidates left running are all various degrees of left-wing, which does not sit well with the affluent homeowners of D8. So I will vote for Manny and make no other selections. Let Manny win, resign and then Lurie can appoint someone better than any of these three. 0 0 votes. Sign in to vote Reply NovaKing says: October 5, 2026, 3:55 pm at 3:55 pm This guy’s claim to fame is keeping people compassionately hooked on drugs to “help” them, it’s unfortunate that there is no longer someone in the race who is at least somewhat critical of “harm reduction” bullshit. +1 0 votes. Sign in to vote Reply marcos says: October 6, 2026, 2:01 am at 2:01 am It is a sad state of SF progressive politics indeed when that the guy who Scott Wiener plucked from crystal meth homeless obscurity and who was an executive with Yet Another City funded poverty nonprofit charity that’s laundered $150m with no improvement in street conditions and no measurable record of helping people up and out of bad situations is the desirable “progressive” choice and now is probably going to win by default. Like Chan vs Wiener, McCoy is less worse than Yekutiel, but it is pathetic that this is the best that our city can produce politically compared to some of the candidates we’re seeing perform favorably in the rest of the nation. I bet he gives Luis Granados a raise. 0 0 votes. Sign in to vote Reply Allen Jones says: October 5, 2026, 1:30 pm at 1:30 pm This is funny. For those who endorsed Yekutiel originally, why should anyone take you seriously for endorsing his challenger? If your poor choice blew up in your face due to lack of homework, where is the assurance you did your homework on this new endorsement? 0 0 votes. Sign in to vote Reply Jeremiah Bullfrog says: October 5, 2026, 10:28 pm at 10:28 pm To go from own candidate to the other would be very odd as they are polar opposites, politically. 0 0 votes. Sign in to vote Reply Jethro says: October 5, 2026, 10:24 pm at 10:24 pm The impression I have of McCoy comes from his, “Housing First,” approach towards the jobless, penniless, hard core drug addicts that flock to the City, for cheap drugs. Why should residents of San Francisco foot the bill for, “permanent, supportive housing,” for people that made bad decisions in life, while waiting on the same to decide when they will kick the habit, or kick the bucket? Seems like a reward for irresponsible behaviors. +2 -3 votes. Sign in to vote Reply marcos says: October 6, 2026, 1:56 am at 1:56 am I don’t mind paying for PSH for San Franciscans who have fallen on hard times. I do not think that San Francisco taxpayers should be obligated to both pay for SFPD not addressing fentanyl sales on the streets AND to house and treat and employ the region’s fentanyl addicts. City funded nonprofits, like Health Right 360, see this as a golden business opportunity. Luis Granados needs a raise. 0 0 votes. Sign in to vote Reply Expand comments Leave a comment Please keep your comments short and civil. Do not leave multiple comments under multiple names on one article. We will zap comments that fail to adhere to these short and easy-to-follow rules. Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Δ Leave a comment Mission Local reporters are your guides for this election. Donate today to make our election coverage possible. Donate Sign up for Mission Local's daily newsletter: The latest San Francisco news in your inbox. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. X Bluesky YouTube Facebook Instagram TikTok Mission Local produces enterprise reporting on San Francisco's most critical issues: police reform, corruption, public health, housing and homelessness. Learn more about us , and donate below keep us reporting . Subscribe to Mission Local's free newsletter Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. © 2026 Local news for a global city Powered by Newspack You're using an ad blocker . That's OK. Mission Local is a nonprofit newsroom. We rely on readers to support our free reporting. Subscribe to our free newsletter and support us a better way. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. Already a subscriber? Sign in Io Yeh Gilman covers politics for Mission Local . She grew up in San Francisco, wrote for the Lowell High newspaper, and is now covering the city she knows best. As a Report for America reporter, part of her work is funded by readers like you. Donate to support Io! You follow the election . So do we. Get our weekly election newsletter, plus the Mission Local Daily. Both free. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. Already a subscriber? Sign in 30+ candidates, 10 local measures, and more — San Francisco ballots are going to be long in November. But we’ve got you covered. Donate today to keep our election coverage free for all. Donate Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. Sign in or register Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Go back Continue Set a password (optional) By signing up, you agree to our Terms and Conditions. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Verify your email Close We'll send a verification code to %EMAIL% . Send code Skip for now Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of Mission Local directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Mission Local Daily Continue Gift this article Close Link Copy link