San Francisco police now have to delete Flock data after 30 days Close Donate Newsletters Advertise Sign In Search for: Search Ways to Give to Mission Local News by Topic Election Coverage Business Trouble Covering the Police Housing Sports Tech AI Community Government Column by Joe Eskenazi The Arts Immigration Food Education News by Neighborhood Bayview-Hunters Point The Mission The Richmond The Sunset Tenderloin Explore Data Projects Events Snaps from Readers News Archive About Us Our Board Our Donors Careers at Mission Local Internships Advertising Corrections Editorial ethics Noticias en Español 中文 Close Ways to Give to Mission Local News by Topic Election Coverage Business Trouble Covering the Police Housing Sports Tech AI Community Government Column by Joe Eskenazi The Arts Immigration Food Education News by Neighborhood Bayview-Hunters Point The Mission The Richmond The Sunset Tenderloin Explore Data Projects Events Snaps from Readers News Archive About Us Our Board Our Donors Careers at Mission Local Internships Advertising Corrections Editorial ethics Noticias en Español 中文 Skip to content Menu Mission Local Local news for a global city Donate Newsletters Advertise Sign In Open Search Search for: Search Donate Menu Sign In Posted in Government Mayor Lurie tightens rules on Flock surveillance cameras Policies come one day after Human Rights Commission report on Flock cameras absolves police of violating Sanctuary ordinance, but urges tighter guardrails by Frankie Solinsky Duryea September 29, 2026, 4:00 am September 29, 2026, 8:49 am Share this: Share Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Mayor Daniel Lurie at the World Cup x Pride event on June 25, 2026. Photo by Zoe Malen. Mayor Daniel Lurie’s office on Tuesday announced a slew of new privacy policies to tighten police access to Flock surveillance cameras, and said the mayor would work with state lawmakers to pass a bill cracking down on officers who improperly use or share data from the cameras. The citywide changes will shorten the length of time that police officers can access Flock data from one year to 30 days, require that police officers list which investigation is linked to their search of a surveillance database and establish more regular audits. Lurie’s new policies will apply to the over 400 automated license plate readers throughout the city, all of which are currently contracted through the technology company Flock Safety. Flock cameras, which are designed to scan license plates and track cars for officers, have been the subject of national controversy. The Atlanta-based tech company was recently the subject of a critical Senate hearing , and has been denounced for how officers use it to collaborate with Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The Washington Post and others have also reported that police officers have used the cameras to stalk former partners. In San Francisco, out-of-state agencies, including federal agencies, have improperly accessed Flock’s database of footage more than 1.6 million times , and the system has been criticized for poor data security. San Francisco politicians have debated how to approach the cameras: supporters say it helps reduce crime, while critics say they can be misused. Earlier this year, the SFPD investigated an officer who inappropriately used Flock to search for his wife’s stolen car. The San Francisco Democratic Party voted last week to reaffirm its support for existing guidelines. The policies put forward Tuesday will change several of those, and will “protect people’s privacy while keeping San Franciscans and visitors safe,” Lurie’s office wrote. The first change will prevent San Francisco police officers from accessing data from its Flock portal 30 days after it is captured without special approval. Under the new policy, the officer must demonstrate the footage is needed for an active investigation and get a supervisor’s sign-off. In another change, all Flock searches must now include an incident report. Without one, officers cannot access data associated with the surveilled vehicle. The final change will require SFPD to review its Flock logs every month while requesting that the Department of Police Accountability do annual audits. You're using an ad blocker . That's OK. Mission Local is a nonprofit newsroom. We rely on readers to support our free reporting. Subscribe to our free newsletter and support us a better way. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. You follow City Hall . So do we. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. The new policies come the day after the San Francisco Human Rights Commission released a report in response to the 1.6 million improper Flock searches made public in 2025. The commission found that the SFPD had not violated sanctuary city laws, but recommended several new guardrails for police. Several, including the wiping of license plate data after 30 days and clear reasoning for searches, are addressed in the new policies. Others are not . It is unclear when the changes announced Tuesday will be rolled out. What changes for SFPD’s Flock use Data retention Until now Up to 12 months San Francisco police retained all footage. New policy 30 days Delete data from SFPD’s Flock portal after capture. To hold footage longer, an officer must show it is needed for an active investigation and get a supervisor’s sign-off. Searches Every Flock search must include an incident report. Without one, officers cannot access data associated with the surveilled vehicle. Review SFPD must review Flock logs every month; annual audits by the Department of Police Accountability are requested. The mayor’s office also announced it is working with Assemblymember Matt Haney and District Attorney Brooke Jenkins to put forward legislation to punish people who improperly use or share license plate data. The move comes three weeks after news that an off-duty San Jose police officer used Flock to track a woman who had accused his cousin of domestic abuse, and then shared the data with the accused. San Jose officials then issued a disappointing update: There is no state law penalizing officers who improperly share such data. The proposed state law, which was initiated by Jenkins, will ensure that punishment for “misuse of data” is “consistent with how we already protect other confidential law-enforcement information,” the DA’s office wrote. “San Francisco needs to catch up with the technology. “It should be a crime to share sensitive information without a clear and lawful purpose,” said Haney. “It’s unacceptable and dangerous that it isn’t already.” The law could be introduced in December at the earliest, and potentially passed next year. “These new measures will improve public trust and accountability as we continue to use technology to reduce crime across the city,” wrote SFPD chief Derrick Lew. “If anyone commits violations with our technology, we will have stronger policies and laws to hold them accountable.” Lurie and other city officials will release more information about the changing policies at a press conference at 10 a.m. Tuesday. Correction: A previous version of this article stated that the San Francisco Police Department would have to delete Flock footage after 30 days. Officers will simply need internal approval to access it after 30 days. There's a lot on the ballot, but we've got you covered. This November, San Franciscans will weigh in on 30+ candidates, 10 ballot measures, and a host of other regional and state propositions. But fear not: Mission Local is covering it all. We have the most in-depth election reporting in San Francisco, covering every race up and down the ballot. We're doing weekly questionnaires of every major candidate, diving deep into the money behind the election, and analyzing what it all means. We think that's critical to a city like this. And we think it's critical that election reporting remain free for all to read , because every voter deserves to know where candidates stand. Support our election coverage! Thanks to more than 3,000 donors, our election reporting is free. Will you join them? Latest on law enforcement City report on Flock cameras finds no sanctuary violation by SFPD — but urges tighter oversight S.F. Democratic Party stands behind Flock surveillance cameras in sweeping vote S.F.’s trailblazing pretrial program is closing. Its replacement isn’t ready. Tagged: Daniel Lurie , SFPD Frankie Solinsky Duryea frankie@missionlocal.com Frankie Solinsky Duryea is a staff reporter covering criminal justice for Mission Local. He was born and raised in Burlingame, and he first worked with Mission Local as an intern in 2025, where he covered immigration and ICE. Frankie Solinsky Duryea's work has appeared elsewhere in the SF Chronicle and in SFGATE. He speaks Spanish fluently, and Arabic and French conversationally. You can contact him securely on signal @frankiesd.28 More by Frankie Solinsky Duryea Join the Conversation 1 Comment Mark says: September 29, 2026, 4:47 am at 4:47 am Nothing but BS. Lurie, Jenkins, and the guys who run this city like Larsen have absolutely no intention of holding SFPD accountable. They have said so time and again, and even campaigned on the issue. Except for a brief time in 2015-2017, the SFPD has not been held accountable for its repeated violations of the “law”, as documented by the department’s own 2015 report. Given the embarrassing SF Dem cave-in, I guess some kind of PR stunt was necessary. 0 0 votes. Sign in to vote Reply Leave a comment Please keep your comments short and civil. Do not leave multiple comments under multiple names on one article. We will zap comments that fail to adhere to these short and easy-to-follow rules. Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Δ Leave a comment Mission Local reporters are your guides for this election. Donate today to make our election coverage possible. Donate Sign up for Mission Local's daily newsletter: The latest San Francisco news in your inbox. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. X Bluesky YouTube Facebook Instagram TikTok Mission Local produces enterprise reporting on San Francisco's most critical issues: police reform, corruption, public health, housing and homelessness. Learn more about us , and donate below keep us reporting . Subscribe to Mission Local's free newsletter Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. © 2026 Local news for a global city Powered by Newspack You're using an ad blocker . That's OK. Mission Local is a nonprofit newsroom. We rely on readers to support our free reporting. Subscribe to our free newsletter and support us a better way. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. Already a subscriber? Sign in You follow City Hall . So do we. Get our weekly Government newsletter, plus the Mission Local Daily. Both free. Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. Already a subscriber? Sign in 30+ candidates, 10 local measures, and more — San Francisco ballots are going to be long in November. But we’ve got you covered. Donate today to keep our election coverage free for all. Donate Pick at least one newsletter to subscribe. Subscribe free Unsubscribe anytime. Sign in or register Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Go back Continue Set a password (optional) By signing up, you agree to our Terms and Conditions. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Verify your email Close We'll send a verification code to %EMAIL% . Send code Skip for now Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of Mission Local directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Mission Local Daily Continue Gift this article Close Link Copy link