--- page 1 ---
NEWS & COMMENTARY
Alameda Rejects Surveillance Deal with
Company Tied to ICE
Last night, the Bay Area city of Alameda unanimously rejected a
proposed $500,000 contract to purchase license plate reader
technology from Vigilant, a company that recently sold ICE access
to its nationwide database. This is a win for the rights of all
residents.
February 7, 2018
Share this page
Menu
Donate

--- page 2 ---
Last night, the city of Alameda, California unanimously
withheld approval of a proposed $500,000 contract to
purchase license plate reader technology from Vigilant, a
company that recently sold Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE) access to its nationwide database.
Alameda’s rejection of this new license plate system is an
important win for the rights of all residents, and sends a
clear message that their community continues to stand with
immigrants. It’s time for other communities to follow
Alameda’s lead by asking hard questions about license plate
and other surveillance technology and pressing for reforms
that will ensure robust debate about future proposals.
With its vote, Alameda also rejected Vigilant's surveillance
business model that exploits local residents’ data for the
Trump Administration’s hi-tech deportation machine.
Alameda recognized that local surveillance doesn’t stay local.
License plate readers collect sensitive location data that can
reveal details about our private lives, including where we
work, where we live, and our visits to doctors or political
demonstrations. Under the reported agreement with
Vigilant, ICE would be capable of accessing data collected by
Vigilant from local law enforcement and private sources.
Vigilant’s larger database reportedly contains billions of
plates.
Federal authorities should not have access to surveillance
systems that are already ripe for abuse. Police have used
license plate readers to target Muslim Americans by spying
on mosques, and its misuse in the Bay Area triggered a multi-
year civil rights lawsuit. As with other surveillance, police
deploy license plate readers disproportionately in

--- page 3 ---
communities vulnerable to government abuse. Alamedans
were justifiably concerned about this particular vendor’s
contract with ICE, an agency run amok with abuse, racial
profiling, and bigotry.
What’s next? Alameda voted to send the city attorney and
police back to the drawing board. Going forward, if Alameda
decides to re-solicit ALPR proposals, it has to be an open call
for vendors with strict limits on data sharing, retention, and
use. Vendors like Vigilant will have to compete against
vendors that do not provide access to ICE. Importantly,
Alameda left the door open to non-ALPR alternatives that
can serve public safety goals.
This is just a first step. All cities should have a consistent
process for considering surveillance technology that ensures
robust transparency and strict oversight. It’s time for cities to
join places like Oakland by passing ordinances that give
residents a right to debate – and prevent – invasive
surveillance like this.
Matt Cagle is a Technology and Civil Liberties Attorney with
the ACLU of Northern California.
Related Issues
Immigrants' Rights
Privacy and Technology
View All Issues

--- page 4 ---
STAY INFORMED
Sign up to be the first to hear about how to take action.
Sign Up
By completing this form, I agree to receive occasional emails per the terms of the ACLU’s
privacy statement.
Need Legal Help?
Financial Reports
Annual Report
Contact Us
© 2026 ACLU of Northern California
User Agreement
Privacy Statement
Fraud Alert
Email *
ZIP code *
Search