New reports emerge on Border Patrol use of Flock cameras - Wednesday Journal Never miss a headline! Sign up for our free newsletter to get local news sent straight to your inbox. Subscribe Submitting form Processing… Success! You're on the list. Whoops! There was an error and we couldn't process your subscription. Please reload the page and try again. Close DONATE NEWSLETTERS Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu Immigration Local Government Business & Development Education Arts Police & Fire Homes Pitch Us A Story Opinion Open dropdown menu Letters to the Editor One Views Columns Letter to the Editor Submission Eats Sports Events Obituaries Open dropdown menu Read obituaries Submit an obituary Public Notices Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Austin Brookfield Chicago West Side Forest Park Riverside About Us Open dropdown menu Our staff Our story Where to buy a newspaper Close Inside Wednesday Journal 2024 Election 2025 Election Guide 2025 Local Elections Advertise With Us Digital Advertising Print Advertising Special Sections & Community Guides Arts Ask us anything Community Donate Events FAQ Immigration Impact Stories Letter to the Editor Submission Log In My Account Newsletters Non-Profit Coverage Obituary Submission Opinion Photo stories Pitch Us A Story Policies Print Editions Season of Giving 2025 Special Advertising Sections Subscribe to print Thanks for being a subscriber! What is GCM? Where to buy a newspaper Work with us Skip to content Menu Wednesday Journal A hyperlocal news site committed to in-depth reporting on issues concerning Oak Park and River Forest, Illinois. DONATE NEWSLETTERS Open Search Search for: Search Menu News Open dropdown menu Immigration Local Government Business & Development Education Arts Police & Fire Homes Pitch Us A Story Opinion Open dropdown menu Letters to the Editor One Views Columns Letter to the Editor Submission Eats Sports Events Obituaries Open dropdown menu Read obituaries Submit an obituary Public Notices Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Austin Brookfield Chicago West Side Forest Park Riverside About Us Open dropdown menu Our staff Our story Where to buy a newspaper NEWSWELL Chicago Austin Weekly News Forest Park Review Riverside-Brookfield Landmark Posted in Police & Fire New reports emerge on Border Patrol use of Flock cameras Federal agents previously accessed Illinois license plate reader data from former Oak Park provider, violating a state law by Brendan Heffernan December 2, 2025 December 2, 2025 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email (Courtesy of www.flocksafety.com) National debate over Flock Safety’s nationwide surveillance network continues as new reports emerge on how federal immigration agents have used license plate reader data. The Associated Press reported last month that it had obtained documents showing that Border Patrol has in the past had access to data from at least three private sector surveillance vendors: Rekor, Vigilant Solutions and Flock Safety, whom Oak Park maintained a license plate reader contract with until the village board voted to shut off the town’s cameras on Aug. 5, citing concerns over their potential use in immigration investigations. The AP’s investigation found that Border Patrol agents were using License Plate Reader networks in a “secretive program” aimed at identifying and detaining people whose travel patterns it deemed suspicious, with the agency looking at data from cameras far from the border in cities like Chicago. Border Patrol told AP the cameras are used to thwart drug smuggling and human trafficking operations by using the networks to surveil where people traveling on America’s roads and using that data to predict who is involved in the smuggling. Border Patrol has generally kept mentions of the surveillance systems out of arrest reports and other public facing documents, the AP found. Flock Safety operates a massive camera network in the United States, with contracts on the books with more than 5,000 American law enforcement agencies. The company says that its tech plays a role in 12% of all solved crimes in the US, and champions of the technology say that the cameras are a revolutionary public safety tool. But the constitutionality of the system is being challenged in federal court, as critics say the surveillance tech violates the fourth amendment. Through Flock alone, Border Patrol for a time had access to at least 1,600 license plate readers across 22 states, and some counties have reported looking up license plates on behalf of Border Patrol even in states like California and Illinois that ban sharing data with federal immigration authorities, according to an AP analysis of police disclosures. A Flock spokesperson told AP the company “for now” had paused its pilot programs with Border Patrol and a separate DHS agency, Homeland Security Investigations, and declined to discuss the type or volume of data shared with either federal agency, other than to say agencies could search for vehicles wanted in conjunction with a crime. No agencies currently list Border Patrol as receiving Flock data, according to AP. In June, Illinois Secretary of State Alexi Giannoulias announced that his office would be auditing the Illinois operations of Flock Safety. The investigation found that t he company had broken Illinois law by allowing data collected from license plate readers to be accessed by U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents. Illinois has laws on the books banning license plate reader data to be used for immigration status investigations and criminal investigations related to out-of-state abortion access. “As a result of the sample audit that included a sampling of 12 local law enforcement agencies, the office discovered late last week that Flock did not have proper safeguards in place for data sharing, which was compounded by the fact that the company was running a pilot program with U.S. Customs and Border Protection, which Flock leadership was unaware of,” Giannoulias’ office said in a statement. “This was uncovered as part of the Secretary of State’s audit, and Flock has also since paused its pilot with CBP and other federal agencies, not only in Illinois but nationwide.” On the heels of that announcement, Flock Safety CEO Garrett Langley wrote a blog post addressing the Illinois audit’s findings. “We clearly communicated poorly. We also didn’t create distinct permissions and protocols in the Flock system to ensure local compliance for federal agency users,” he wrote. “In order to work with federal law enforcement agencies, while remaining committed to the values of the communities across the country we currently serve, we are engaging in a coordinated product, engineering, and policy effort to ensure that each of our client agencies better understand how to control their sharing relationships.” The state’s audit came weeks after Oak Park’s board of trustees voted on Aug. 5 to cancel the contract that the village had renewed with Flock Safety a year earlier. Trustees cited concerns over federal immigration enforcement agents’ potential access to Oak Park data, which would violate the village’s immigration sanctuary ordinance. “This is what democracy looks like,” Trustee Brian Straw said. “So I do hope other communities will look at this conversation and will look at the national stories that are coming out and reconsider if they want to continue participating with Flock and continue sharing their data. This is a healthy part of democracy, to actually change what we’re doing in response to national events and trends.” Oak Park had eight Flock Safety cameras in operation when the board voted to kill the contract. All but one of the cameras was situated within two blocks of the Oak Park-Chicago line. The majority of Oak Park trustees voted to cancel the contract outright, but trustees Jim Taglia and Cory Wesley had introduced an alternative measure that would’ve shut off the cameras for 90 days as the Oak Park police worked on its own internal audit. Oak Park Village President Vicki Scaman said she wished the board would’ve taken that option to work through a more measured decision-making process that better included the expertise of the police department. “While I know that all of you are very genuine about your service to our community, but this feels icky,” she said. “Nobody is going to watch this meeting and learn anything. We had the power as the village of Oak Park to have a more substantive conversation where we’re with our professional staff to uncover the challenges and to get down to facts and likely have come to the same place.” Early work on the Illinois audit revealed that in January, a Flock account associated with the south suburban Palos Heights Police Department had searched Oak Park Flock data 28 times with a stated purpose of investigating “immigration violation.” Cities in several states have moved to cut ties with Flock in the months since Oak Park ended its own deal with the tech provider. On Tuesday, Aug. 26, north suburban Evanston announced that it would shut off its 19 Flock license plate readers effective Sept. 26. Some of the other municipalities to follow Oak Park’s lead and cancel Flock contracts include Cambridge, MA, Hillsborough, NC, Redmond, WA, Verona, WI, Sedona, AZ and Hays County, Texas, which includes suburban Austin. Related Join the discussion on social media! Facebook Instagram X Tagged: flock , flock cameras , flock safety , hompage , police & fire Local news, straight to your inbox! Sign up for our free newsletter to get latest news and updates on Oak Park and River Forest. Join my email list Submitting form Processing… Success! You're on the list. Whoops! There was an error and we couldn't process your subscription. Please reload the page and try again. The right choice for date night May 12, 2026 Want to be adored? Open this door for your sweetheart – or with friends. Mélange restaurant began service on March 18… Read more : The right choice for date night Shrubtown: The Amazing Race May 12, 2026 Grandfathering from 12 to 3 May 12, 2026 As the father of an only child, I assumed grandfathering would be more complicated with twins. And it was —… Read more : Grandfathering from 12 to 3 Property values for Oak Park Township May 12, 2026 Cook County Assessor Fritz Kaegi released the initial assessments of residential and commercial properties in Oak Park Township on May… Read more : Property values for Oak Park Township D97 calls back 4 laid off teachers May 12, 2026 In March Oak Park Elementary School District 97 sent out layoff notices to eight teachers. But just a month later… Read more : D97 calls back 4 laid off teachers Donate Contact Us Advertise with Us Newsletters Subscribe Work with Us News Events Opinion Obituaries Pitch us a Story Submit an Event Republication Guidelines Terms of Use Privacy Statement Sign up © 2026 NEWSWELL Powered by Newspack Gift this article Close Link Copy link