Flock cameras and immigrants - Wednesday Journal Never miss a headline! Sign up for our free newsletter to get local news sent straight to your inbox. Subscribe Submitting form Processing… Success! You're on the list. Whoops! There was an error and we couldn't process your subscription. Please reload the page and try again. Close DONATE NEWSLETTERS Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu Immigration Local Government Business & Development Education Arts Police & Fire Homes Pitch Us A Story Opinion Open dropdown menu Letters to the Editor One Views Columns Letter to the Editor Submission Eats Sports Events Obituaries Open dropdown menu Read obituaries Submit an obituary Public Notices Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Austin Brookfield Chicago West Side Forest Park Riverside About Us Open dropdown menu Our staff Our story Where to buy a newspaper Close Inside Wednesday Journal 2024 Election 2025 Election Guide 2025 Local Elections Advertise With Us Digital Advertising Print Advertising Special Sections & Community Guides Arts Ask us anything Community Donate Events FAQ Immigration Impact Stories Letter to the Editor Submission Log In My Account Newsletters Non-Profit Coverage Obituary Submission Opinion Photo stories Pitch Us A Story Policies Print Editions Season of Giving 2025 Special Advertising Sections Subscribe to print Thanks for being a subscriber! What is GCM? Where to buy a newspaper Work with us Skip to content Menu Wednesday Journal A hyperlocal news site committed to in-depth reporting on issues concerning Oak Park and River Forest, Illinois. DONATE NEWSLETTERS Open Search Search for: Search Menu News Open dropdown menu Immigration Local Government Business & Development Education Arts Police & Fire Homes Pitch Us A Story Opinion Open dropdown menu Letters to the Editor One Views Columns Letter to the Editor Submission Eats Sports Events Obituaries Open dropdown menu Read obituaries Submit an obituary Public Notices Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Austin Brookfield Chicago West Side Forest Park Riverside About Us Open dropdown menu Our staff Our story Where to buy a newspaper NEWSWELL Chicago Austin Weekly News Forest Park Review Riverside-Brookfield Landmark Posted in Editorials , Opinion Flock cameras and immigrants by Editorial July 29, 2025 July 29, 2025 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Oak Park, it seems, is about to have another debate about the use by local police of license plate reading technology provided by the Flock Safety Corporation. Oak Park first installed these cameras in 2022. The impetus then was to get a handle, through technology, on what cars were passing through the village, if any were reported stolen or involved in a criminal incident. There were strong objections raised both by citizens and some elected officials who felt the technology was overly intrusive and that the massive amount of data collected locally and nationwide was subject to misuse. The outcome then was to install half of the cameras originally requested by police. A contract with Flock was narrowly extended a year ago. Now some members of the board want another discussion as surveillance worries began to coalesce around potential misuse of data by federal ICE agents to home in on arresting immigrants. This is a valid concern. More valid after Police Chief Shatonya Johnson revealed in a memo to village officials that, last January, south suburban Palos Heights had tapped into Oak Park Flock data in an effort to locate an alleged immigrant. Oak Park has defined itself over the past several years as a sanctuary city for immigrants. Part of that effort has been ordinances that specifically prohibit local police or other village entities from cooperating with federal immigration efforts, except in rare and court-ordered cases. If that determination is real, and we believe it is, then a full discussion of the continued use of these cameras is warranted. Related Join the discussion on social media! Facebook Instagram X Local news, straight to your inbox! Sign up for our free newsletter to get latest news and updates on Oak Park and River Forest. Join my email list Submitting form Processing… Success! You're on the list. Whoops! There was an error and we couldn't process your subscription. Please reload the page and try again. West Sub Medical owners offer different realities in all-day court hearing May 9, 2026 The former business partners who’d been running Oak Park’s West Suburban Medical Center together until its abrupt closure in March faced off in court on Friday. Emergency legal action filed last… Read more : West Sub Medical owners offer different realities in all-day court hearing Run a Condo, HOA, or Apartment Building? Find the Answers You Need in One Day May 8, 2026 The CooperatorEvents Chicagoland Condo, HOA & Apartment Expo—Wednesday, May 20 at the Donald E. Stephens Convention Center (10:00 a.m. –… Read more : Run a Condo, HOA, or Apartment Building? Find the Answers You Need in One Day Wright Plus is back with 8 homes May 7, 2026 (Editor’s note: Lacey Sikora is the Journal’s real estate reporter. She and her husband are the new owners of the… Read more : Wright Plus is back with 8 homes Oscar and Nonie Balch House showcases historic and modern May 7, 2026 In 1911, Frank Lloyd Wright returned to the Midwest after traveling Europe with his mistress (and former client) Mamah Cheney.… Read more : Oscar and Nonie Balch House showcases historic and modern Attorneys for remaining ‘Broadview 6’ still seeking grand jury transcripts May 7, 2026 While federal prosecutors agreed to dismiss the felony charges against Oak Park Trustee Brian Straw and the other remaining “Broadview… Read more : Attorneys for remaining ‘Broadview 6’ still seeking grand jury transcripts Donate Contact Us Advertise with Us Newsletters Subscribe Work with Us News Events Opinion Obituaries Pitch us a Story Submit an Event Republication Guidelines Terms of Use Privacy Statement Sign up © 2026 NEWSWELL Powered by Newspack Gift this article Close Link Copy link