A missed opportunity - Wednesday Journal Never miss a headline! Sign up for our free newsletter to get local news sent straight to your inbox. Subscribe Submitting form Processing… Success! You're on the list. Whoops! There was an error and we couldn't process your subscription. Please reload the page and try again. Close DONATE NEWSLETTERS Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu Immigration Local Government Business & Development Education Arts Police & Fire Homes Pitch Us A Story Opinion Open dropdown menu Letters to the Editor One Views Columns Letter to the Editor Submission Eats Sports Events Obituaries Open dropdown menu Read obituaries Submit an obituary Public Notices Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Austin Brookfield Chicago West Side Forest Park Riverside About Us Open dropdown menu Our staff Our story Where to buy a newspaper Close Inside Wednesday Journal 2024 Election 2025 Election Guide 2025 Local Elections Advertise With Us Digital Advertising Print Advertising Special Sections & Community Guides Arts Ask us anything Community Donate Events FAQ Immigration Impact Stories Letter to the Editor Submission Log In My Account Newsletters Non-Profit Coverage Obituary Submission Opinion Photo stories Pitch Us A Story Policies Print Editions Season of Giving 2025 Special Advertising Sections Subscribe to print Thanks for being a subscriber! What is GCM? Where to buy a newspaper Work with us Skip to content Menu Wednesday Journal A hyperlocal news site committed to in-depth reporting on issues concerning Oak Park and River Forest, Illinois. DONATE NEWSLETTERS Open Search Search for: Search Menu News Open dropdown menu Immigration Local Government Business & Development Education Arts Police & Fire Homes Pitch Us A Story Opinion Open dropdown menu Letters to the Editor One Views Columns Letter to the Editor Submission Eats Sports Events Obituaries Open dropdown menu Read obituaries Submit an obituary Public Notices Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Austin Brookfield Chicago West Side Forest Park Riverside About Us Open dropdown menu Our staff Our story Where to buy a newspaper NEWSWELL Chicago Austin Weekly News Forest Park Review Riverside-Brookfield Landmark Posted in Letters To The Editor A missed opportunity by Ravi Parakkat August 12, 2025 August 12, 2025 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email On Aug. 5, the Oak Park Village Board voted 5-2 to cancel our contract with Flock Safety, the automated license plate reader (ALPR) technology recommended by both our Police Department and the independent 2022 community safety study conducted by BerryDunn. Our Police Department originally requested 20 cameras. The board at the time cut that to eight. Now even those have been taken away, citing privacy concerns and fear of data misuse. Instead of working to create a policy framework that marries data security, professional accountability, and public safety, this vote prioritizes fear over facts, micromanagement over expert advice, and virtue signaling over a long-term commitment to public safety. This is especially troubling given: • Staffing shortages – Our police department is still 30 officers short, despite claims that we would be fully staffed by the end of 2025. • A stalled police facility project – The need for a modern facility has been well established and documented, yet action has been delayed for years and is now indefinitely stalled. With this vote, we take away even more tools from our already stretched officers. • Loss of regional collaboration – Neighboring communities have implemented Flock cameras. Canceling this contract doesn’t protect our privacy; it just makes joint crime prevention efforts harder for Oak Park. We pride ourselves on being progressive, yet we block progress. We speak of data-driven decisions, yet we ignore recommendations from the very experts we paid for. The debate over Flock cameras could have been an opportunity to lead by collaborating more effectively with our police department, balancing privacy protections with public safety innovation. Instead this board just sent a message that Oak Park is unwilling to engage in the complex work of balancing safety, privacy, and modern policing. We didn’t just reject a tool, we missed the opportunity to lead thoughtfully on community safety. The result is disappointing and potentially dangerous. Ravi Parakkat Former Oak Park village trustee Related Join the discussion on social media! Facebook Instagram X Local news, straight to your inbox! Sign up for our free newsletter to get latest news and updates on Oak Park and River Forest. Join my email list Submitting form Processing… Success! You're on the list. Whoops! There was an error and we couldn't process your subscription. Please reload the page and try again. Kateeb, Smith-Young power Fenwick softball past OPRF May 13, 2026 All season, Fenwick High School varsity softball head coach Valerie Jisa has sensed her team had potential to be really… Read more : Kateeb, Smith-Young power Fenwick softball past OPRF Print Edition: May 13, 2026 May 13, 2026 Are you interested in receiving the physical copy of our newspaper each week? Check out this link to become a subscriber. The right choice for date night May 12, 2026 Want to be adored? Open this door for your sweetheart – or with friends. Mélange restaurant began service on March 18… Read more : The right choice for date night Shrubtown: The Amazing Race May 12, 2026 Grandfathering from 12 to 3 May 12, 2026 As the father of an only child, I assumed grandfathering would be more complicated with twins. And it was —… Read more : Grandfathering from 12 to 3 Donate Contact Us Advertise with Us Newsletters Subscribe Work with Us News Events Opinion Obituaries Pitch us a Story Submit an Event Republication Guidelines Terms of Use Privacy Statement Sign up © 2026 NEWSWELL Powered by Newspack Gift this article Close Link Copy link