Don’t throw Flock out with the bath water - Wednesday Journal Never miss a headline! Sign up for our free newsletter to get local news sent straight to your inbox. Subscribe Submitting form Processing… Success! You're on the list. Whoops! There was an error and we couldn't process your subscription. Please reload the page and try again. Close DONATE NEWSLETTERS Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu Immigration Local Government Business & Development Education Arts Police & Fire Homes Pitch Us A Story Opinion Open dropdown menu Letters to the Editor One Views Columns Letter to the Editor Submission Eats Sports Events Obituaries Open dropdown menu Read obituaries Submit an obituary Public Notices Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Austin Brookfield Chicago West Side Forest Park Riverside About Us Open dropdown menu Our staff Our story Where to buy a newspaper Close Inside Wednesday Journal 2024 Election 2025 Election Guide 2025 Local Elections Advertise With Us Digital Advertising Print Advertising Special Sections & Community Guides Arts Ask us anything Community Donate Events FAQ Immigration Impact Stories Letter to the Editor Submission Log In My Account Newsletters Non-Profit Coverage Obituary Submission Opinion Photo stories Pitch Us A Story Policies Print Editions Season of Giving 2025 Special Advertising Sections Subscribe to print Thanks for being a subscriber! What is GCM? Where to buy a newspaper Work with us Skip to content Menu Wednesday Journal A hyperlocal news site committed to in-depth reporting on issues concerning Oak Park and River Forest, Illinois. DONATE NEWSLETTERS Open Search Search for: Search Menu News Open dropdown menu Immigration Local Government Business & Development Education Arts Police & Fire Homes Pitch Us A Story Opinion Open dropdown menu Letters to the Editor One Views Columns Letter to the Editor Submission Eats Sports Events Obituaries Open dropdown menu Read obituaries Submit an obituary Public Notices Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Austin Brookfield Chicago West Side Forest Park Riverside About Us Open dropdown menu Our staff Our story Where to buy a newspaper NEWSWELL Chicago Austin Weekly News Forest Park Review Riverside-Brookfield Landmark Posted in Letters To The Editor Don’t throw Flock out with the bath water by Rhoda Bernstein August 19, 2025 August 19, 2025 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Quite understandably, most Oak Park residents, including me, never bother to read the village’s Annual Police Report. Perhaps due to smoke-related cabin fever this year I read the report. I was aware the Flock contract for license-plate-reader cameras had been cancelled and I felt less safe as a result. However, I did not know the details of how well Flock kept us safe. Here are a few examples, according to the report: In 2024, Flock alerted police to 1,728 stolen vehicles, 81 missing persons, 33 violent offenders, a reckless firearm discharge on Greenfield, armed robberies on both Harvey and Austin, and led to the capture of a suspect in a stolen motor vehicle fleeing a homicide. I appreciate some villagers’ and some trustees’ concerns over maintaining privacy, especially for our most vulnerable residents. But surely, there are ways to maintain appropriate privacy and keep Flock on the job supporting our safety. Trustees, there was no need to throw the baby out with the bath water. I hope our village leaders reconsider the Flock contract in the near future. If we don’t have a safe Oak Park, we won’t have any Oak Park. Rhoda Bernstein Oak Park Related Join the discussion on social media! Facebook Instagram X Local news, straight to your inbox! Sign up for our free newsletter to get latest news and updates on Oak Park and River Forest. Join my email list Submitting form Processing… Success! You're on the list. Whoops! There was an error and we couldn't process your subscription. Please reload the page and try again. The right choice for date night May 12, 2026 Want to be adored? Open this door for your sweetheart – or with friends. Mélange restaurant began service on March 18… Read more : The right choice for date night Shrubtown: The Amazing Race May 12, 2026 Grandfathering from 12 to 3 May 12, 2026 As the father of an only child, I assumed grandfathering would be more complicated with twins. And it was —… Read more : Grandfathering from 12 to 3 Property values for Oak Park Township May 12, 2026 Cook County Assessor Fritz Kaegi released the initial assessments of residential and commercial properties in Oak Park Township on May… Read more : Property values for Oak Park Township D97 calls back 4 laid off teachers May 12, 2026 In March Oak Park Elementary School District 97 sent out layoff notices to eight teachers. But just a month later… Read more : D97 calls back 4 laid off teachers Donate Contact Us Advertise with Us Newsletters Subscribe Work with Us News Events Opinion Obituaries Pitch us a Story Submit an Event Republication Guidelines Terms of Use Privacy Statement Sign up © 2026 NEWSWELL Powered by Newspack Gift this article Close Link Copy link