Police oversight committee seeks more data on Flock camera use - Wednesday Journal Close DONATE NEWSLETTERS Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu Immigration Local Government Business & Development Education Arts Police & Fire Homes Pitch Us A Story Opinion Open dropdown menu Letters to the Editor One Views Columns Letter to the Editor Submission Eats Sports Events Obituaries Open dropdown menu Read obituaries Submit an obituary Public Notices Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Austin Brookfield Chicago West Side Forest Park Riverside About Us Open dropdown menu Our staff Our story Where to buy a newspaper Close Inside Wednesday Journal 2024 Election 2025 Election Guide 2025 Local Elections Advertise With Us Digital Advertising Print Advertising Special Sections & Community Guides Arts Ask us anything Community Donate Events FAQ Immigration Impact Stories Letter to the Editor Submission Log In My Account Newsletters Non-Profit Coverage Obituary Submission Opinion Photo stories Pitch Us A Story Policies Print Editions Season of Giving 2025 Special Advertising Sections Subscribe to print Thanks for being a subscriber! Where to buy a newspaper Work with us Skip to content Menu Wednesday Journal A hyperlocal news site committed to in-depth reporting on issues concerning Oak Park and River Forest, Illinois. DONATE NEWSLETTERS Open Search Search for: Search Menu News Open dropdown menu Immigration Local Government Business & Development Education Arts Police & Fire Homes Pitch Us A Story Opinion Open dropdown menu Letters to the Editor One Views Columns Letter to the Editor Submission Eats Sports Events Obituaries Open dropdown menu Read obituaries Submit an obituary Public Notices Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Austin Brookfield Chicago West Side Forest Park Riverside About Us Open dropdown menu Our staff Our story Where to buy a newspaper NEWSWELL Chicago Austin Weekly News Forest Park Review Riverside-Brookfield Landmark Posted in Police & Fire Police oversight committee seeks more data on Flock camera use Committee says police have refused to hand over data on case outcomes by Brendan Heffernan May 20, 2025 May 20, 2025 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email A Flock Group Inc. camera is shown. Credit: Luzane Draughon Oak Park’s Citizen Police Oversight Committee submitted its semi-annual report to the village board of trustees ahead of a May 20 board meeting. Notably the committee report said it wants police department data to prove the effectiveness of Flock Automated License Plate Readers, a camera system used by police. The report revealed that the board only weighed in on two citizen complaints during the second half of 2024. The report also presented recommendations on how the committee would like to be informed of the police department’s use of license plate reading cameras in their investigations. The committee last submitted a report to the board last November. The committee reviews police investigations of citizen complaints, with the department’s investigations usually being led by either a commander or by the department’s internal affairs team. The committee can either vote to agree or disagree with the police investigation and action taken, but the committee’s vote is not binding. Police Chief Shatonya Johnson would have to choose to act on the ruling. Of the two cases CPOC reviewed, the committee sustained one complaint and did not sustain the other, both rulings in line with Oak Park police’s internal investigation. The best way to keep up with Oak Park and River Forest Sign up for our free newsletter to get the top news and local happenings. Sign up “The internal investigation findings were upheld by the Citizen Police Oversight Committee unanimously for both complaints,” the report said of the decisions. The complaint the body sustained was related to the department’s rule about “courtesy to the general public,” and the committee recommended that the officer undergo “coaching, counseling and de-escalation training,” according to the report. CPOC’s report also provided perspective on how the body views the police department’s use of Flock Automated License Plate Readers. According to the report, Oak Park police made two stops as result of Flock data during the second half of 2024, one stop in which a vehicle was believed to be connected to an armed robbery in Oak Park and one stop in which a vehicle was believed to be connected to an attempted murder case in Chicago. Police made four arrests and recovered two firearms between the two Flock-aided stops. Oak Park police also searched the Flock database for case information related to 48 different incidents during that span, according to CPOC’s report. In the report, CPOC said that they want the police to provide them with information describing how Flock cameras have led to arrests before the committee will recommend the cameras’ effectiveness to the village board. “Despite repeated requests by CPOC for evidence of ‘successful investigative outcomes’ to illustrate the value of Flock Safety ALPR for this use, OPPD remains unwilling to provide such data,” CPOC wrote in the report.” “Consequently, there is no evidence whatsoever that Flock Safety ALPRs have played a meaningful role in any Oak Park crime investigation since their installation in 2022. With a total of two stops and approximately 2.1 investigative searches per day over this reporting period, it is clear that no statistically significant crime prevention or resolution is realized by using the Flock Safety ALPR System here in Oak Park. Because OPPD is unwilling to share downstream crime outcome data with CPOC, it is impossible to gauge any actual benefit of Flock Safety ALPRs, especially when compared to real-life evidence of ALPR system misuse and mounting privacy concerns nationwide.” CPOC submitted a formal recommendation to the board alongside its report asking that the police department be required to share detailed information on how it searches the Flock database to help with investigations. “Access to investigative search outcomes is critical for CPOC to fulfill its oversight duties. Evaluating search justifications, false positives, and case outcomes enables CPOC to determine whether ALPR searches lead to lawful, unbiased, and effective enforcement actions—or whether their use meaningfully contributes to public safety in Oak Park,” the committee said in the recommendation document. This report comes as CPOC’s role is being reviewed by a specialized consultant looking to provide the village with recommendations on how it might modernize the committee. Last November, Oak Park’s village board approved $100,000 to fund consultant group Pivot Consulting Group’s study. The group has already submitted a report describing best practices in the oversight field to the village. Citizen Police Oversight Committee Chair Kevin Barnhart said he hopes the consultant’s report will yield suggestions that give the body more influence over police policy. “Overall, we’re looking towards the step of the role of CPOC evolving in this community and standards changing so that we’re not doing something from 35 years ago,” Barnhart told Wednesday Journal earlier this month. “It’s the updating of our processes and procedures so they have a little more board teeth and are a little more ingrained.” Pivot staff expect to submit their final report reviewing the Citizen Police Oversight Committee to the village board before the end of June. The village board will discuss the findings at a meeting soon after. Support trusted local journalism in Oak Park and River Forest Whether we’re reporting on how your tax dollars get spent or digging into the issues that shape daily life, our goal at Wednesday Journal is to make sure you have clear, reliable information about your community . This work has always been essential, but it has taken on new urgency as local newsrooms across the country are shrinking or disappearing. Not long ago, it seemed that Wednesday Journal was destined for the same fate. But readers like you stepped up and helped sustain us at a moment when our future was uncertain . We’re committed to delivering reliable reporting here in Oak Park and River Forest because we know trusted local journalism makes stronger communities. If you value our work, will you make a tax-deductible gift to support trustworthy local reporting for our neighborhood? One-time Monthly Annually One-time $120 $180 $300 Other Donation amount $ Monthly $10 $25 $50 Other Donation amount per month $ Annually $120 $300 $500 Other Donation amount per year $ Every dollar makes an immediate difference. Donate Now Related Join the discussion on social media! Facebook Instagram X Tagged: citizen commission , citizens police oversight committee , cpoc , Crime , flock cameras , homepage1 , Oak Park Local news, straight to your inbox! Sign up for our free newsletter to get latest news and updates on Oak Park and River Forest. Join my email list Submitting form Processing… Success! You're on the list. Whoops! There was an error and we couldn't process your subscription. Please reload the page and try again. Mental Health Can’t Wait: Break the Silence, Ignite Change May 22, 2026 May is Mental Health Awareness Month, a national observance that has been recognized since 1949, but its message has never… Read more : Mental Health Can’t Wait: Break the Silence, Ignite Change Local high schools address student mental health challenges May 22, 2026 High school students in particular face unprecedented challenges these days. The desire to get into a top-flight college and generally trying to… Read more : Local high schools address student mental health challenges How motion moves mental wellness May 22, 2026 Since the mid-20th Century, society has increasingly recognized the fundamental link between regular physical activity and overall health. But while… Read more : How motion moves mental wellness Renovations which allow aging in place May 21, 2026 It’s not unusual in Oak Park to see an older home get a surface makeover when new owners step in,… Read more : Renovations which allow aging in place Federal charges against Straw, rest of ‘Broadview 6,’ dismissed with prejudice May 21, 2026 Tears, laughter and embraces in the courtroom marked the end to months of “torture,” for Oak Park Trustee Brian Straw and his “Broadview 6”… Read more : Federal charges against Straw, rest of ‘Broadview 6,’ dismissed with prejudice Donate Contact Us Advertise with Us Newsletters Subscribe Work with Us News Events Opinion Obituaries Pitch us a Story Submit an Event Republication Guidelines Terms of Use Privacy Statement Sign up © 2026 NEWSWELL Powered by Newspack Gift this article Close Link Copy link