Why I voted to cancel Flock cameras - Wednesday Journal Never miss a headline! Sign up for our free newsletter to get local news sent straight to your inbox. Subscribe Submitting form Processing… Success! You're on the list. Whoops! There was an error and we couldn't process your subscription. Please reload the page and try again. Close DONATE NEWSLETTERS Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu Immigration Local Government Business & Development Education Arts Police & Fire Homes Pitch Us A Story Opinion Open dropdown menu Letters to the Editor One Views Columns Letter to the Editor Submission Eats Sports Events Obituaries Open dropdown menu Read obituaries Submit an obituary Public Notices Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Austin Brookfield Chicago West Side Forest Park Riverside About Us Open dropdown menu Our staff Our story Where to buy a newspaper Close Inside Wednesday Journal 2024 Election 2025 Election Guide 2025 Local Elections Advertise With Us Digital Advertising Print Advertising Special Sections & Community Guides Arts Ask us anything Community Donate Events FAQ Immigration Impact Stories Letter to the Editor Submission Log In My Account Newsletters Non-Profit Coverage Obituary Submission Opinion Photo stories Pitch Us A Story Policies Print Editions Season of Giving 2025 Special Advertising Sections Subscribe to print Thanks for being a subscriber! What is GCM? Where to buy a newspaper Work with us Skip to content Menu Wednesday Journal A hyperlocal news site committed to in-depth reporting on issues concerning Oak Park and River Forest, Illinois. DONATE NEWSLETTERS Open Search Search for: Search Menu News Open dropdown menu Immigration Local Government Business & Development Education Arts Police & Fire Homes Pitch Us A Story Opinion Open dropdown menu Letters to the Editor One Views Columns Letter to the Editor Submission Eats Sports Events Obituaries Open dropdown menu Read obituaries Submit an obituary Public Notices Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Austin Brookfield Chicago West Side Forest Park Riverside About Us Open dropdown menu Our staff Our story Where to buy a newspaper NEWSWELL Chicago Austin Weekly News Forest Park Review Riverside-Brookfield Landmark Posted in One Views Why I voted to cancel Flock cameras by Derek Eder September 2, 2025 September 2, 2025 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email On Aug. 5, I voted along with the 5-2 majority on the Oak Park Village Board to cancel our contract with Flock Safety and deactivate the 8 Automatic License Plate Reader (ALPR) cameras that have been operating in our community since 2022. As a recently appointed trustee, this was one of the first substantial votes of my political career, and one that I was proud to make as both a technologist and a public servant. For those who haven’t heard of it, Flock Safety is a tech company that sells ALPR cameras to law enforcement and private businesses around the country to track every vehicle that drives by. Users of this system can then search for a license plate number (no warrant required!) and find out where that car has been. If you’re in law enforcement, this sounds like a great tool. And so, it has spread quickly across the country. Since their founding seven years ago, Flock has inked contracts with over 5,000 municipalities and installed tens of thousands of cameras along public roads and highways. While Flock isn’t the first company to develop this technology, they have successfully followed the Silicon Valley startup playbook by selling to governments with artificially low prices backed by venture capital to capture market share and develop a much more lucrative product: a national network and archive of vehicle location data. It is the very value of this network, and Flock’s willingness to share and sell access to it, including to the Trump Administration, ICE, CBP, and Texas police enforcing anti-abortion laws, that makes this technology so dangerous. Flock claims ALPR cameras are a necessary tool for modern policing and that they have the necessary data protections in place. According to our own Civilian Police Oversight Commission, over 99% of Flock alerts do not result in any police action. While Flock’s marketing emphasizes success stories, the company has been unable to provide meaningful, independently verified data on long-term effectiveness. Regarding data protections, Flock claims that each community owns their own data and can control who can have access. This is not true and their own service agreement contradicts it. We’ve seen direct evidence of data being shared without knowledge or consent of participating municipalities. Meanwhile, the harms of this system are real. In just the past two months, we’ve learned how a Flock camera tracked a woman’s abortion travel, that Illinois cops gave ICE access to more than 5,000 cameras and now both the Illinois Secretary of State and Congress have launched investigations into the company. We are living in an era of surveillance capitalism — a society dominated by unregulated and invisible technology that spies on us constantly. In 2014, NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden warned us that the surveillance put in place by our own government would lead to “turnkey tyranny.” Now in 2025, that tyranny has arrived with the second Trump Administration, and they’ve never had more powerful tools at their disposal. The scale of these systems, from the phones in our pockets, to social media platforms, to “smart” doorbells, to the network of cameras recording every person and car that goes by, can seem overwhelming. But as a trustee, I have the power to act. I, along with four of my colleagues, took the small but significant step of refusing to spend taxpayer dollars to surveil and oppress our communities — just like Austin, Denver, Evanston, and many others did. Read a longer version of this post at https://derekeder.com/blog/why-i-voted-to-cancel-flock . Related Join the discussion on social media! Facebook Instagram X Local news, straight to your inbox! Sign up for our free newsletter to get latest news and updates on Oak Park and River Forest. Join my email list Submitting form Processing… Success! You're on the list. Whoops! There was an error and we couldn't process your subscription. Please reload the page and try again. A Place of Hope and Healing May 11, 2026 Thrive Counseling Center is built on the belief that quality mental health care should be accessible to everyone, regardless of their circumstances. Serving… Read more : A Place of Hope and Healing Delivering resources and changing narratives May 11, 2026 For Cheryl Potts, leading Oak Park Township’s Community Mental Health Board isn’t just a career — it’s a deeply personal mission. Serving as executive director… Read more : Delivering resources and changing narratives The Living Room offers ‘natural connectiveness’ for those with mental health challenges May 11, 2026 Like most of us, Marty has seen challenges in his life, some that were tough to overcome. Things like that can weigh on a… Read more : The Living Room offers ‘natural connectiveness’ for those with mental health challenges West Sub Medical owners offer different realities in all-day court hearing May 9, 2026 The former business partners who’d been running Oak Park’s West Suburban Medical Center together until its abrupt closure in March faced off in court on Friday. Emergency legal action filed last… Read more : West Sub Medical owners offer different realities in all-day court hearing Run a Condo, HOA, or Apartment Building? Find the Answers You Need in One Day May 8, 2026 The CooperatorEvents Chicagoland Condo, HOA & Apartment Expo—Wednesday, May 20 at the Donald E. Stephens Convention Center (10:00 a.m. –… Read more : Run a Condo, HOA, or Apartment Building? Find the Answers You Need in One Day Donate Contact Us Advertise with Us Newsletters Subscribe Work with Us News Events Opinion Obituaries Pitch us a Story Submit an Event Republication Guidelines Terms of Use Privacy Statement Sign up © 2026 NEWSWELL Powered by Newspack Gift this article Close Link Copy link