Important village board votes - Wednesday Journal Never miss a headline! Sign up for our free newsletter to get local news sent straight to your inbox. Subscribe Submitting form Processing… Success! You're on the list. Whoops! There was an error and we couldn't process your subscription. Please reload the page and try again. Close DONATE NEWSLETTERS Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu Immigration Local Government Business & Development Education Arts Police & Fire Homes Pitch Us A Story Opinion Open dropdown menu Letters to the Editor One Views Columns Letter to the Editor Submission Eats Sports Events Obituaries Open dropdown menu Read obituaries Submit an obituary Public Notices Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Austin Brookfield Chicago West Side Forest Park Riverside About Us Open dropdown menu Our staff Our story Where to buy a newspaper Close Inside Wednesday Journal 2024 Election 2025 Election Guide 2025 Local Elections Advertise With Us Digital Advertising Print Advertising Special Sections & Community Guides Arts Ask us anything Community Donate Events FAQ Immigration Impact Stories Letter to the Editor Submission Log In My Account Newsletters Non-Profit Coverage Obituary Submission Opinion Photo stories Pitch Us A Story Policies Print Editions Season of Giving 2025 Special Advertising Sections Subscribe to print Thanks for being a subscriber! What is GCM? Where to buy a newspaper Work with us Skip to content Menu Wednesday Journal A hyperlocal news site committed to in-depth reporting on issues concerning Oak Park and River Forest, Illinois. DONATE NEWSLETTERS Open Search Search for: Search Menu News Open dropdown menu Immigration Local Government Business & Development Education Arts Police & Fire Homes Pitch Us A Story Opinion Open dropdown menu Letters to the Editor One Views Columns Letter to the Editor Submission Eats Sports Events Obituaries Open dropdown menu Read obituaries Submit an obituary Public Notices Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Austin Brookfield Chicago West Side Forest Park Riverside About Us Open dropdown menu Our staff Our story Where to buy a newspaper NEWSWELL Chicago Austin Weekly News Forest Park Review Riverside-Brookfield Landmark Posted in One Views Important village board votes by Derek Eder January 20, 2026 January 20, 2026 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email In June 2025, I joined the Oak Park Village Board. With the start of a new year, it seems like a good time to pause and reflect on what I’ve learned, the major board votes I made, and what I expect to see and do in 2026. Oak Park Bike Plan My first major vote was on the comprehensive Bike Plan, many years in the making, whose goal is to create a safe village-wide bike network for all ages and abilities. This vote was an easy Yes for me, and it passed 6-1. More bike trips mean fewer car trips, which is a win for the environment, as 27% of our emissions come from cars and trucks. As an avid cyclist, I can attest to the convenience and health benefits of biking. Safety and perceived danger from cars has always been the biggest obstacle for mass adoption of biking, and the Bike Plan puts in new protected, raised, striped and marked bike lanes, new crossing signals, and intersection upgrades. Flock contract I voted along with the 5-2 majority to cancel our contract with Flock Safety and deactivate the eight Automatic License Plate Reader (ALPR) cameras that have been operating in our community since 2022. With the increased presence of immigration enforcement from ICE in the greater Chicago region, Flock’s willingness to share and sell access to our residents’ data to the Trump Administration, ICE, and Texas police enforcing anti-abortion laws, made this technology too dangerous not only to our immigrant community, but to the entire nation. ICE-free zones In September, ICE began ramping up immigration enforcement in Chicagoland. In Oak Park, we saw many of our neighbors stopped, abused and abducted just for having brown skin. Our community’s reaction, with hundreds of residents forming rapid response networks and whistle brigades in solidarity, was a bright spot in these dark times. While our own Welcoming Village Ordinance and the IL TRUST Act prevented local law enforcement from helping ICE, they were also not allowed to interfere. What we could do was restrict their use of village property by not allowing it to be used as a “staging area, processing location, or operations base for the purpose of civil immigration enforcement.” I brought this forward with Trustee Jenna Leving Jacobson and the board voted 7-0 to adopt the changes. The Township and Library boards passed similar ordinances, and my hope is that the school and park districts do the same soon. 2026 budget The final vote in 2025 was to pass the 2026 Village Budget. We did so 7-0, though it took 11 Finance Committee meetings and five full board meetings to work through all the details. We debated the items to prioritize in the 5-Year Capital Improvement Plan; how to fund a Living Room Pilot request by Thrive Counselling Center; how to address staffing and coverage concerns raised by our Firefighters Union; and how to maintain our sustainability budget. I successfully advocated to keep the expanded funding for our Energy Efficiency grants fought for in 2024 by my predecessor Susan Buchanan. Looking forward to 2026, I am particularly interested in finding additional revenue sources for our Sustainability Fund, having continued discussions on the use of technology by village police, and doing a comprehensive review of our zoning ordinance and missing middle housing, and strengthening our Inclusionary Housing Ordinance. We also anticipate that ICE will be back with more immigration raids, and we will need to use all of our available legislative tools to continue to protect Oak Park. Derek Eder is an Oak Park village trustee. Related Join the discussion on social media! Facebook Instagram X Local news, straight to your inbox! Sign up for our free newsletter to get latest news and updates on Oak Park and River Forest. Join my email list Submitting form Processing… Success! You're on the list. Whoops! There was an error and we couldn't process your subscription. Please reload the page and try again. A Place of Hope and Healing May 11, 2026 Thrive Counseling Center is built on the belief that quality mental health care should be accessible to everyone, regardless of their circumstances. Serving… Read more : A Place of Hope and Healing Delivering resources and changing narratives May 11, 2026 For Cheryl Potts, leading Oak Park Township’s Community Mental Health Board isn’t just a career — it’s a deeply personal mission. Serving as executive director… Read more : Delivering resources and changing narratives The Living Room offers ‘natural connectiveness’ for those with mental health challenges May 11, 2026 Like most of us, Marty has seen challenges in his life, some that were tough to overcome. Things like that can weigh on a… Read more : The Living Room offers ‘natural connectiveness’ for those with mental health challenges West Sub Medical owners offer different realities in all-day court hearing May 9, 2026 The former business partners who’d been running Oak Park’s West Suburban Medical Center together until its abrupt closure in March faced off in court on Friday. Emergency legal action filed last… Read more : West Sub Medical owners offer different realities in all-day court hearing Run a Condo, HOA, or Apartment Building? Find the Answers You Need in One Day May 8, 2026 The CooperatorEvents Chicagoland Condo, HOA & Apartment Expo—Wednesday, May 20 at the Donald E. Stephens Convention Center (10:00 a.m. –… Read more : Run a Condo, HOA, or Apartment Building? Find the Answers You Need in One Day Donate Contact Us Advertise with Us Newsletters Subscribe Work with Us News Events Opinion Obituaries Pitch us a Story Submit an Event Republication Guidelines Terms of Use Privacy Statement Sign up © 2026 NEWSWELL Powered by Newspack Gift this article Close Link Copy link