Flock cameras shut down in Berwyn Close DONATE NEWSLETTERS Sign In Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu Immigration Local Government Business & Development Education Arts Police & Fire Homes Pitch Us A Story Opinion Open dropdown menu Letters to the Editor One Views Columns Letter to the Editor Submission Eats Sports Events Open dropdown menu Events Submission Obituaries Open dropdown menu Read obituaries Submit an obituary Public Notices Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Austin Brookfield Chicago West Side Forest Park Riverside About Us Open dropdown menu Our staff Our story Where to buy a newspaper Close Inside Wednesday Journal 2024 Election 2025 Election Guide 2025 Local Elections Advertise With Us Digital Advertising Print Advertising Special Sections & Community Guides Arts Ask us anything Community Donate Events Events Submission FAQ Immigration Impact Stories Letter to the Editor Submission Log In My Account My Account Newsletters Non-Profit Coverage Obituary Submission Opinion Photo stories Pitch Us A Story Policies Print Editions Season of Giving 2025 Special Advertising Sections Subscribe to print Thanks for being a subscriber! Where to buy a newspaper Work with us Skip to content Menu Wednesday Journal A hyperlocal news site committed to in-depth reporting on issues concerning Oak Park and River Forest, Illinois. DONATE NEWSLETTERS Sign In Open Search Search for: Search Menu Sign In News Open dropdown menu Immigration Local Government Business & Development Education Arts Police & Fire Homes Pitch Us A Story Opinion Open dropdown menu Letters to the Editor One Views Columns Letter to the Editor Submission Eats Sports Events Open dropdown menu Events Submission Obituaries Open dropdown menu Read obituaries Submit an obituary Public Notices Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Austin Brookfield Chicago West Side Forest Park Riverside About Us Open dropdown menu Our staff Our story Where to buy a newspaper NEWSWELL Chicago Austin Weekly News Forest Park Review Riverside-Brookfield Landmark Posted in News Berwyn orders shutdown of Flock cameras Riverside discussing renewal of Flock as part of current budget talks by Stella Brown September 25, 2026 September 25, 2026 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email One of Riverside’s two Flock cameras, located at the intersection of Longcommon and Byrd roads, is pictured on Friday, Sept. 25, 2026. Credit: Stella Brown Mayor Robert J. Lovero of Berwyn issued an executive order this week calling for the suspension of the city police’s use of Flock cameras and the prohibition of city employees accessing the network of stored Flock data. The executive order, signed and filed on Tuesday, Sept. 22, calls for Police Chief Michael Fellows to “immediately” suspend the Flock program and prevent city staff from operating or accessing the license plate reading cameras. The order is set to last through June 2028, which is the conclusion of Berwyn’s five-year contract with Flock that began in June 2023. In a letter to Berwyn’s residents and city council also dated Sept. 22, Lovero said the city’s legal department and counsel will review the contract with Flock and “related state grant criteria” to make sure the city “can reasonably meet [its] obligations” moving forward. Lovero said he had conducted an internal audit alongside police administration prior to the issuance of the executive order, in which they found “no issues or inconsistencies” with “how the technology and its data were used” by Berwyn police. A press release from the city dated Sept. 23 described Lovero’s decision to shut down the use of Flock cameras as a “proactive decision” that “does not reflect an accusation of misconduct by Berwyn police personnel.” The best way to keep up with Oak Park and River Forest Sign up for our free newsletter to get the top news and local happenings. Sign up In his letter, Lovero attributed his decision in part to the “many residents [who] are asking” Berwyn to discontinue its use of Flock cameras, which have attracted national attention for the data they collect, sparking concerns around the surveillance of civilians without reasonable suspicion and the potential for misuse by police, both in the community where the cameras are located or in one of the potentially many other police departments the data may be shared with. There have also been instances where local police have shared data with federal immigration officers. In a Facebook post on Sept. 23, Ald. Micah Caldwell of Berwyn’s First Ward mentioned the issue had first been raised more than a year ago. While Caldwell said he was “glad the mayor took this step,” he urged the city council to take further action in the form of an ordinance, as the executive order does not cancel the Flock contract or call for the covering, deactivation or removal of the cameras themselves. Berwyn is not the first municipality in the region to disown Flock as the cameras come under increasing scrutiny across the country. In August 2025, Oak Park’s village board voted 4-3 to cancel the village’s contract with Flock and shut down its eight license plate reading cameras the next day. Riverside is discussing the renewal of its contract with Flock for the use of two cameras as village staff and officials solidify the village’s budget for 2027. Public Safety Director Matthew Buckley said Riverside’s use of Flock since March 2024 is primarily to track vehicles involved in crimes that pass into or out of the village. Village President Doug Pollock said he has been “satisfied” with Riverside’s use of internal safeguards to prevent the misuse of the cameras or data they collect. At least one Riverside resident, former trustee Mark Shevitz, has spoken out against the use of Flock in a Letter to the Editor of the Landmark arguing the burden should fall to village government to prove the surveillance of civilian residents is worth the value the cameras provide to police rather than residents demonstrating an abuse of the technology. S trengthen Wednesday Journal’s community-centered coverage We believe in local journalism that reflects our communities. And so do our members. Will you become a monthly donor and make sure Oak Park and River Forest always have a newsroom dedicated to them? Monthly donors provide a predictable and reliable revenue stream that sustains your community’s news. We're raising this money to bolster our ability to document change, hold local institutions accountable and shine a light on people making a difference in Oak Park and River Forest. Will you help us by chipping in? YES, COUNT ME IN! Related Join the discussion on social media! Facebook Instagram X Tagged: berwyn , flock , flock cameras , homepage , Oak Park , riverside , Robert J. Lovero Local news, straight to your inbox! Sign up for our free newsletter to get latest news and updates on Oak Park and River Forest. Sign up Berwyn orders shutdown of Flock cameras September 25, 2026 Mayor Robert J. Lovero of Berwyn issued an executive order this week calling for the suspension of the city police’s use of Flock cameras and the prohibition of city employees accessing the network of stored Flock data. Prayer and protest one year after Broadview Six September 25, 2026 Over 30 people gathered outside of the Broadview ICE detention facility this Friday marking one year since the events that led to the infamous "Broadview Six" prosecution. Property transfers for August 2026 September 25, 2026 The following property transfers were reported by the Cook County Clerk from August 2026. Where addresses appear incomplete, for instance where a unit number appears missing, that information was not provided by the clerk. River Forest poised to take over Community Center ownership September 24, 2026 River Forest’s village board is expected to vote Monday evening to take over ownership and control of the River Forest Civic Center building at 8020 Madison St. Concerned about climate? Volunteers tell how to retool your home September 24, 2026 Oak Park Climate Action Network (OPCAN) will hold an open house tour in Oak Park on Oct. 4. Donate Contact Us Advertise with Us Newsletters Subscribe Work with Us News Events Opinion Obituaries Pitch us a Story Submit an Event Republication Guidelines Terms of Use Privacy Statement © 2026 NEWSWELL Powered by Newspack We're in the final days of our fall fundraiser. A monthly gift of just $15 keeps a local reporter covering Oak Park and River Forest year-round. Will you support Wednesday Journal today? Support local news Sign in or register Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Verify your email Close We'll send a verification code to %EMAIL% . Send code Skip for now Gift this article Close Link Copy link