source: packet.pdf
sha256: 1fc722ecc96dcfa7efd22b8fef5f6b27290972fb2c6b1cad31cf315e77af12bc
pages: 336
ocr_pages: 15
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission Regular
Meeting
March 24, 2026
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Seema Patel, Chair
Adam Klafter, Vice Chair
Caiti Busch
Maxwell Schaumkel
Margaret Williams
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: March 24, 2026
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 895 1930 8209      Passcode: 307587
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge Allegiance
Roll Call 
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's
jurisdiction that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of
15 minutes for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's
jurisdiction. The Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the
agenda, but shall refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 and Section
27.08.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those
issues raised at the public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing.
Some public hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
 
1.
715 N. San Mateo Drive – New Multifamily Residential Development (PA-2025-031)
Adopt a Resolution approving a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR), a Site Development Planning
Application (SDPA), and a Vesting Tentative Parcel Map (VTM) for the construction of a new multifamily
residential building with 181 dwelling units and associated site improvements at 715 N. San Mateo Drive, and
find that the Project is exempt from further review under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
pursuant to Public Resources Code section 21080.66, based on the Findings for Approval and subject to the
Conditions of Approval.

--- page 2 ---
CEQA: Approval of the Project is subject to a statutory exemption under Public Resources Code section 21080.66,
signed into law by AB 130. To facilitate the City’s review of the Project under this exemption, on August 11, 2025, the
applicant provided a memo to detail the Project’s qualification under Public Resources Code section 21080.66(a)
(Attachment 6). An assessment the Project complies with AB 130 is in the attached Draft Resolution.
In accordance with Public Resources Code section 21080.66(b)(1)(A), the City formally noticed Native American
tribes for consultation regarding the Project and its potential impacts on tribal cultural resources. One tribe
responded to the City’s notice to request consultation with the City. The Project Conditions of Approval (Attachment
1, Exhibit A) include conditions required to satisfy the requirements of AB 130 to avoid impacts on tribal cultural
resources.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planningcommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
Agenda Report 
 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
Agenda Number:  1 
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING 
Account Number:  
File ID: 26-10972 
 
 
TO: 
Planning Commission 
FROM: 
Zachary Dahl, Director 
PREPARED BY: 
Community Development Department 
MEETING DATE: 
March 24, 2026 
SUBJECT: 
715 N. San Mateo Drive – New Multifamily Residential Development (PA-2025-031) 
 
RECOMMENDATION 
Adopt a Resolution approving a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR), a Site Development Planning Application (SDPA), 
and a Vesting Tentative Parcel Map (VTM) for the construction of a new multifamily residential building with 181 dwelling 
units and associated site improvements at 715 N. San Mateo Drive, and find that the Project is exempt from further review 
under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to Public Resources Code section 21080.66, based on the 
Findings for Approval and subject to the Conditions of Approval. 
 
BACKGROUND: 
On April 15, 2025, Prometheus Real Estate Group (applicant) submitted a Planning Application to demolish two one-story 
commercial buildings and one two-story duplex to construct a six-story multifamily residential building (“Project”) consisting 
of 181 dwelling units, parking, and open space. The dwellings would be rented, and 19 would be designated as Below Market 
Rate (BMR) units at the Very-Low Income (VLI) affordability level. 
 
This application follows the submittal of a Preliminary Application (PA-2024-064) made under the Housing Crisis Act (Senate 
Bill 330) on November 14, 2024. The Project’s Neighborhood Meeting was held on February 26, 2025, ahead of the formal 
submittal (more details below).  
 
Project Site 
The Project site is located west of North San Mateo Drive, with State Street on the northwest and Villa Terrace on the 
southeast, is comprised of four parcels, and is approximately 1.22 acres, or 53,141 square feet, in size. The existing site 
includes approximately 5,330 square feet of commercial floor area within two one-story buildings with surface parking along 
North San Mateo Drive, that is currently used for as parking for the vehicle maintenance business across the street, and one 
1,960-square-foot, two-story residential duplex at 247 Villa Terrace (unit 1 is registered with the City as a short-term rental 
and unit 2 is occupied by a long-term tenant). Surrounding uses include single-family and multifamily residences to the 
southeast and southwest, auto-related businesses to the northeast, and a fitness business to the northwest. To the north 
and opposite the site across the street is the 888 San Mateo Apartments, a three-story multifamily development completed 
in 2014. 
 
The Project site, and the properties abutting North San Mateo Drive to the north and south of the site, are within the General 
Plan Land Use designation of Residential Medium II. The Project site, and the properties along North San Mateo Drive to the 
north and south, are also within one of the ten General Plan 2040 study areas, where the City increased allowable building 
height, density, and FAR. The Project site and vicinity are not within a Specific Plan, Master Plan, or Area Plan boundary. The 
Project site is zoned “Regional/Community Commercial District” (C3-2) and “Executive Offices District” (E2-1.5), and the 
Burlingame Caltrain stop is less than one-half mile north of the site. A location map showing the Project site is included as 
Attachment 2.

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
Project Description 
The Project includes construction of a six-story, 258,018-square-foot multifamily residential building with 181 residential 
units and 180 off-street covered parking spaces. The ground floor includes 14 dwellings (ten along North San Mateo Drive 
and four along Villa Terrace), the 2nd and 6th floors contain 31 dwellings per floor, and the 3rd, 4th, and 5th floors contain 35 
dwellings per floor. The Below Market Rate (BMR) dwellings will be distributed throughout each floor and each story of the 
proposed building. The dwelling mix is shown in Table 1 below. 
 
Table 1 - Proposed Units 
Dwelling Type 
Very-Low Income 
Market Rate 
Total 
Studio 
1 
8 
9 
Urban 1-bed1 
4 
33 
37 
1-bed 
8 
71 
79 
2-bed 
6 
46 
52 
3-bed 
0 
4 
4 
Total Dwellings 
19 
162 
181 
 
Primary pedestrian access would be provided along North San Mateo Drive, with secondary access provided on State Street 
and Villa Terrace. Parking would be provided in a two-level parking garage, with 131 stalls below grade and 49 on the ground 
floor, accessed via a new driveway and curb cut to Villa Terrace. Bicycle parking facilities would include secure racks within 
a 196-space bike-parking room at grade, located adjacent to the residential lobby, and exterior bike racks to accommodate 
12 short-term bicycle parking spaces, located in the public right-of-way adjacent to the residential lobby along North San 
Mateo Drive. Residential amenities would be provided, to include a mail/package room, lobby, coworking space and dog 
washing area on the ground floor, a gym/fitness room, a pool/spa and courtyard on the 2nd floor, and a common room and 
amenity deck with a barbeque area on the 6th floor (overall, approximately 27,000 square feet of open space would be 
provided). Within the public right-of-way fronting the site, the Project would remove six curb cuts/driveways and all 
curbs/sidewalks to install new sidewalks with pedestrian-scaled lighting, landscape planters with street trees, and new bulb-
outs and ADA curb ramps at the intersection of San Mateo Drive and State Street and at San Mateo Drive and Villa Terrace. 
Architectural, Landscape, and Civil plans are included in Attachment 3. 
 
APPLICABLE CODE AND POLICY REVIEW: 
General Plan and Zoning Code 
The General Plan 2040 Land Use Designation for the Project site is Residential Medium II, which allows medium-density 
multifamily residential dwellings, such as condominiums and apartments, near mixed-use, office, and/or commercial areas.  
The Residential Medium II designation allows for residential densities of up to 99 dwellings per acre, and for this 1.22-acre 
site, the base density allows a maximum of 121 dwellings. To achieve 181 dwellings, the applicant requested a density bonus 
under State law, which is further discussed below. A discussion of the General Plan policies is included in the Draft Resolution 
(Attachment 1). 
 
The Project site is zoned “Regional/Community Commercial District” (C3-2) and “Executive Offices District” (E2-1.5), and 
development of this site is subject to development standards outlined in San Mateo Municipal Code (“SMMC”) Chapters 
27.34 and 27.48. A Project Data Table listing the applicable Zoning Code standards and the Project’s conformance to them 
is included as Attachment 4.  
 
Automobile Parking Standards 
The Project site is located within one-half mile of the Downtown Burlingame Caltrain Stop, which is considered a major 
transit stop as defined in Public Resources Code section 21155, and per Government Code section 65863.2 (approved under 
Assembly Bill (AB) 2097). Based on these state statutes, the City is prohibited from imposing any minimum automobile 
parking requirements on the Project. Therefore, the parking requirements in the City’s Zoning Code do not apply, and the 
City cannot require any off-street parking. Nonetheless, the Project is providing 180 off-street parking spaces to 
 
1 “Urban 1-bed” is a type of studio dwelling, with a partial wall separating the living and sleeping areas. Since the separation is not a full wall, the sleeping area is not 
counted as a bedroom, and an urban 1-bed is considered a studio dwelling for the purpose of confirming automobile and bicycle parking.

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
accommodate the expected demand for residential parking. In addition, the Project would implement Transportation 
Demand Management (TDM) measures through the C/CAG checklist. 
 
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) 
The Project requires a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) approval for construction of a new building in accordance 
with SMMC section 27.08.030. The Project is consistent with the required SPAR findings: it proposes a multifamily 
development that complements the existing architectural character of the surrounding neighborhood through the use of 
high-quality materials and extensive landscaping, which enhances the overall visual character of the site and adjacent area. 
The Project will support the harmonious and orderly growth of the City, the desirability of investment and occupation in the 
vicinity, and be in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare. Overall, the Project design supports orderly and 
harmonious development of the site, complies with applicable development standards and General Plan policies, and would 
not result in adverse impacts. Details on the SPAR findings for approval are included in the Draft Resolution (Attachment 1). 
 
Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) 
The Project also requires a Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) approval for the removal of major vegetation and 
protected trees on and adjacent to the site in accordance with SMMC section 23.40.030. The SMMC defines “major 
vegetation” as live vegetation consisting of tree growth with a trunk diameter of six inches or greater measured at 54 inches 
above natural grade, and “protected trees” as any oak tree with a minimum diameter of 10 inches measured at 54 inches 
above natural grade, any tree with a diameter of 15 inches measured at 54 inches above natural grade, or any street tree. 
 
The Project will result in the removal of 19 existing trees, of which four are protected. The removal of 17 trees on-site is 
necessary to facilitate the development of the Project, and the removal of two trees within the public right-of-way would 
remove trees deemed by the Arborist to be unsuitable in their existing locations. Fifty-five trees will be planted on-site on 
the 2nd and 6th floors of the Project, and 25 trees will be planted along all project frontages in the public right-of-way. The 
equivalent landscape unit (LU) value of the removed trees will be replaced, as conditioned, through the planting of new 
trees, payment of an in-lieu fee, or a combination of both, in accordance with SMMC Chapter 27.71. Details regarding the 
SDPA findings for approval are provided in the Draft Resolution (Attachment 1). 
 
APPLICABLE HOUSING LAWS: 
State Density Bonus Law 
The Project utilizes the provisions of State Density Bonus Law in accordance with Government Code section 65915 and as 
locally adopted in SMMC Chapter 27.15, Density Bonus. To comply with Density Bonus regulations, the City must allow for 
increased residential density, “concessions,” and “waivers” from development standards for residential projects that provide 
a certain percentage of units as affordable units. 
 
The Project proposes 181 dwelling units, exceeding the Residential Medium II land use designation maximum density 
established by the San Mateo General Plan 2040. The Project, however, would designate 15% of the base density units as 
BMR units at the Very Low-Income (VLI) affordability level. Per Government Code section 65915(f)(2), a project with at least 
15% of the dwellings designated as affordable for VLI households is eligible for a density bonus of 50% of the base density. 
This density bonus would increase the maximum allowable density up to 182 dwellings2. Therefore, the density proposed by 
the Project is consistent with the General Plan and state law.  
 
Concession and Waiver Requests 
For this Project, State Density Bonus Law also allows the applicant to request up to three concessions, per Government Code 
section 65915(d)(2)(C), and unlimited waivers from development standards, per Government Code section 65915(e). 
Generally speaking, a concession (or incentive) is a reduction or modification of a development standard that results in 
identifiable and actual cost reductions to provide for affordable housing costs, helping to make the Project financially 
feasible. (A concession also includes a reduction in site development standards or a modification of zoning code 
requirements that exceed minimum building standards.) A waiver is a modification of a standard that would otherwise 
 
2 The General Plan density for this site is 120.7 dwellings, and per Government Code section 65915(q), the density is rounded up to 121 dwellings. The 50% bonus, when 
applied to this density, would allow 181.5 dwellings, and per Government Code section 65915(q), the total number of dwellings allowed for this site is rounded up to 182 
dwellings.

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
physically preclude the construction of the Project at the allowed density. The Project application does not identify any 
concession requests under State Density Bonus Law. However, the Project is seeking several waivers for aspects of the 
Project that do not meet various City development standards, such as floor area ratio (FAR), setbacks/yards, landscape 
buffers, and open space3. The applicant provided a summary of the Project waivers in a density bonus request letter 
(Attachment 5). A complete list of the Project waivers is included in Attachment 1, Exhibit B. 
 
Staff evaluated the waivers and concluded that the waivers are consistent with State law requirements because they support 
construction of the Project as it is designed and at the densities permitted under the City’s General Plan and State Density 
Bonus Law.  
 
Other Applicable State Laws 
In addition to State Density Bonus Law, there are several other state laws that regulate housing development projects. For 
this Project, these include, but are not necessarily limited to the following: 
• 
The Housing Crisis Act (Senate Bill 330) 
o Under Senate Bill 330 (SB 330), a project vests the ordinances, policies, and standards adopted and in effect 
when a preliminary application was submitted to the City. This Project submitted a Preliminary Application 
under SB 330 on November 14, 2024, and is therefore subject to the ordinances, policies, and standards in 
place as of that date.  
• 
The Housing Accountability Act (HAA)  
o The HAA limits a local agency’s ability to deny, reduce the density of, or render housing development 
projects infeasible if objective standards are met. Additionally, when a Project receives waivers from 
objective standards under State Density Bonus Law, it is still considered in compliance with those objective 
standards for the purpose of the HAA. As proposed, including the allowed waivers, this Project meets all 
applicable objective standards in the General Plan, Zoning Code, and other local policy documents that were 
in effect at the time the preliminary application was submitted under SB330. 
• 
Assembly Bill 130 
o Assembly Bill 130 (AB 130) mandates an expedited review timeline and a statutory exemption under CEQA 
for housing projects meeting certain criteria. As discussed below, and in detail in the attached Resolution, 
the Project meets criteria and is subject to expedited review and a statutory exemption under CEQA.  
 
Inclusionary Housing Requirements 
The City’s Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program requires rental projects of 11 or more dwellings to reserve at least 15 
percent of the dwellings for lower-income households. The applicant proposes to reserve 19 dwellings, or 15.7 percent of 
the site’s base density (99 units/acre), for VLI households, which exceeds the City’s Inclusionary Program requirements. 
Consistent with the City’s Policy, the VLI dwellings are distributed throughout the development and, like the market-rate 
dwellings, have access to all on-site amenities, are generally comparable in size, and share the same exterior design and 
appearance. 
 
DESIGN REVIEW – OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS: 
The Project was reviewed for consistency with the City’s Multifamily and Residential Mixed-Use Objective Design Standards 
(ODS). The proposed architectural style is best characterized as contemporary, expressed through a combination of white 
and gray stucco with wood-appearance siding and brick accents that define building form. 
 
The Project design presents a clear base, middle, and top, and each building corner (at State Street and Villa Terrace) is 
defined with brick cladding and building recesses at each floor to provide private open space for the adjacent dwelling. 
Overall, the building combines four primary materials (wall material to include brick, stucco, faux wood siding, and steel for 
railings) and four colors (white and gray stucco, tan and black brick cladding, ‘Golden Oak’ wood appearance siding, and 
black for railings, doors, and windows). The pedestrian experience along each street frontage is enhanced with landscape 
planters and trees along the curb and regular building entries, windows, and pedestrian-scale lighting to provide a sense of 
 
3 Within the applicant’s density bonus request letter, “Building height” is listed as a waiver or reduction. However, with the adoption of Measure T, the General Plan 2040 
Land Use Designation for this site permits building height of up to 6 stories. As the Project would include only 6 stories, the Project complies with the City’s height limit, and 
this waiver is not needed.

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
security along the building frontage and sidewalk.  
 
The Project is consistent with the City’s ODS, except for ODS section 4.1.1, where the ground floor wall facing the residential 
district to the southwest is defined as a “Blank Wall” because it would exceed the height and length maximum allowed 
without also providing a window or door. While the applicant proposed architectural detailing and trailing vines to improve 
the appearance of this wall, the ground-floor wall does not comply, and the applicant has requested a waiver pursuant to 
State Density Bonus Law. 
 
TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS: 
General Plan 2040 Circulation Element Policy C 6.3 requires a site-specific transportation impact analysis prepared in 
accordance with the City’s adopted Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Policy for development projects that may result in 
an adverse condition or effect on the roadway system. This is a local policy requirement and is independent of CEQA VMT 
analysis.4 A Local Transportation Analysis (LTA) was prepared by the applicant’s consultant, Hexagon, to demonstrate 
compliance with this General Plan Policy and the City’s TIA Guidelines. The trip generation analysis indicates that the Project 
would generate a gross of 807 average daily trips, with 69 trips (16 inbound and 53 outbound) during the AM peak hour and 
69 trips (44 inbound and 25 outbound) during the PM peak hour. 
 
Hexagon performed a Level of Service (LOS) Analysis at three nearby intersections for this Project to find that it would 
operate at an acceptable LOS with and without the addition of project trips under all evaluated scenarios5. The Hexagon 
Local Transportation Analysis (LTA) is included as Attachment 7. Overall, the LTA found that the Project would not result in 
any significant local traffic or circulation impacts. 
 
Vesting Tentative Parcel Map 
In addition to the SPAR application, the Project would also merge the four existing parcels into one parcel, and this merger 
would be accomplished via a Parcel Map. Per SMMC section 26.56.075, when a Tentative Parcel Map is accompanied by a 
planning application, it is subject to review and action by the Planning Commission. Findings to approve the Parcel Map are 
included in the attached Draft Resolution, and the conditions of approval include a condition to require that the final map 
to merge the parcels be filed prior to issuance of a building permit for the new building.  
 
NOTICE PROVIDED: 
In accordance with Government Code section 65090, notice of this public hearing was published in the San Mateo Daily 
Journal ten days in advance of this Planning Commission meeting. In accordance with Government Code section 65091 and 
the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, notice was also provided more than ten days in advance of this Planning 
Commission meeting to: 
 
• 
Property owners, residential tenants, and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the Project site. 
• 
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and 
• 
The interested parties email list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be 
added to the Project notification list. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENTS: 
The applicant held a formal Neighborhood Informational Meeting on February 26, 2025, which was attended by 
approximately 40 participants. A Planner from the City attended as an observer. The discussion and comments at this 
meeting included clarifying questions about the Project, which were answered by the developer, as well as public comments 
focused on concerns about parking adequacy, traffic and construction impacts, and the size of the building (the applicant 
provided meeting notes for this meeting). During the formal application review, no additional public comments were 
submitted to staff. Any public comments received after the publication of this report will be forwarded to the Planning 
Commission for review and consideration and posted to this item on the City’s Agendas & Minutes Public Meeting Portal as 
“Post Packet Public Comments.” 
 
4 Because the project is exempt from CEQA, a VMT analysis is not required. In addition, because the project is within one-half mile of a major transit stop, it is presumed 
that the Project would not have a significant effect on VMT, pursuant to CEQA Guidelines section 15064.3. 
5 Existing conditions, opening year plus project, cumulative conditions, and cumulative plus the Project.

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
FISCAL IMPACT: 
As a new housing project filed under SB 330, the Project is subject to development impact, in-lieu, and linkage fees in effect 
at the time of the application filing date. Based on the City's Development Fees, the estimated6 fees are listed below (and 
these fees are assessed and collected prior to the issuance of building permits or occupancy): 
 
• 
Wastewater Capacity Charge of approximately $1,26 million to recover a proportionate share of costs for existing 
and future wastewater system facilities and assets from new or expanded connections to City wastewater systems. 
• 
Transportation Improvement Fee of approximately $506,100 to fund citywide traffic improvements. 
• 
Park In-Lieu/Impact Fee of approximately $3.57 million to offset the increased demands on park and recreation 
facilities serving new developments. 
• 
Art in Public Places Fee in the amount of 1.19% of the total building valuation (excluding land acquisition and off-
site improvement cost) in lieu of providing on-site public art. 
• 
Tree Replacement & Landscape In-Lieu Fee of approximately $8,400, which is assessed when a project removes 
more trees than are planted on-site or along street frontages by the project. 
• 
Childcare Development Fee of approximately $601,800 to fund the development of childcare facilities. 
• 
School Impact Fees in the amount of $4.94 per square foot of residential area to offset the increased demands on 
school facilities caused by new development. This is collected by the San Mateo Union High School District for all 
schools in San Mateo. 
 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION: 
Approval of the Project is subject to a new statutory exemption under Public Resources Code section 21080.66, signed into 
law by AB 130. To facilitate the City’s review of the Project under this exemption, on August 11, 2025, the applicant provided 
a memo to detail the Project’s qualification under Public Resources Code section 21080.66(a) (Attachment 6). An assessment 
of how the Project complies with AB 130 is in the attached Draft Resolution.  
 
In accordance with Public Resources Code section 21080.66(b)(1)(A), the City formally noticed Native American tribes for 
consultation regarding the Project and its potential impacts on tribal cultural resources. One tribe responded to the City’s 
notice to request consultation with the City. The Project Conditions of Approval (Attachment 1, Exhibit A) include conditions 
required to satisfy the requirements of AB 130 to avoid impacts on tribal cultural resources.  
 
ATTACHMENTS 
Att 1 –  Draft Resolution with Findings 
Att 1 Exhibit A – Conditions of Approval  
Att 1 Exhibit B – Density Bonus Waivers 
Att 2 –  Location Map 
Att 3 –  Project Plans 
Att 4 –  Factual Data Sheet 
Att 5 –  Density Bonus Request Letter 
Att 6 –  CEQA Exemption Memo 
Att 7 –  Local Transportation Analysis (LTA), Dated March 5, 2026 
 
STAFF CONTACT 
Joanna Winter, Planning Manager 
jwinter@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
PREPARED BY 
Greg Powell,  
M-Group Consulting Planner,  
gpowell@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
6 The fees provided are estimates only. Actual fees paid may be higher or lower based on any permissible fee increase at the time of fee collection or credits the Project 
may be eligible for.

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2026)
A RESOLUTION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVING SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW, A SITE 
DEVELOPMENT PLANNING APPLICATION (SDPA), AND A VESTING TENTATIVE MAP TO CONSTRUCT 181 
RESIDENTIAL UNITS AND ASSOCIATED SITE IMPROVEMENTS, AND DETERMINE THAT THE PROJECT IS EXEMPT 
FROM FURTHER ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW UNDER CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT
WHEREAS, Prometheus Real Estate Group (herein referred to as the “Applicant”) submitted a Planning 
Application, No. PA-2025-031, for Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR), a Site Development Planning 
Application (SDPA), and a Vesting Tentative Parcel Map (VTM) to construct a multifamily development with 181 
dwellings and associated off-street parking, landscaping and open space at 715, 723 & 733 North San Mateo Drive 
& 247 Villa Terrace (collectively referred to as “Project”) in the City of San Mateo (“City”); and
WHEREAS, the site of the proposed Project is designated by the General Plan Land Use Plan as Residential 
Medium II and by the Zoning Ordinance as “Regional/Community Commercial District” (C3-2) and “Executive 
Offices District” (E2-1.5); and
WHEREAS, in fulfillment of the City’s Below Market Rate requirement found in San Mateo Municipal Code 
(SMMC) section 27.16.050, the Project would provide 19 dwellings affordable to Very-Low Income (VLI) 
households, to consist of one studio, four “urban one-bedroom”, eight one-bedroom, and six two-bedroom 
dwellings; and
WHEREAS, the Project would reserve at least 15% of the maximum density allowed for this site for VLI 
households, and is eligible for: 1) a density bonus of 50% of the base density (per Government Code section 
65915(f)(2)), 2) three concessions (per Government Code section 65915(d)(2)(C)), and 3) unlimited waivers or 
reductions of development standards (per Government Code section 65915(e)). A list of Project waivers is 
included as Exhibit B, and while the Project is eligible for three concessions, a concession or incentive request was 
not made; and
WHEREAS, the Project is exempt from CEQA under Public Resources Code section 21080.66(a), based on 
findings herein; and
WHEREAS, based on findings herein, and notwithstanding the residential density and the waivers of 
development standards granted under State Density Bonus Law, the Project is consistent with applicable policies 
of the General Plan 2040, the San Mateo Municipal Code, and the City’s Objective Design Standards; and
WHEREAS, SMMC section 27.06.050 requires City Council action on Site Plan and Architectural Review for 
any building that would exceed the height limit in the General Plan, and the Project, at six stories, is within the 
height limit set by the San Mateo General Plan 2040 Land Use Designation of Residential Medium II, which allows 
a building of up to six stories; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing for the Project on March 24, 2026, 
at which all public comments were considered.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
FINDS AND RESOLVES that:
1.
The Planning Commission finds, based on the whole record before it, that the Project will not have 
a significant effect on the environment, and that Project approval is exempt from further review

--- page 10 ---
under CEQA, per Public Resources Code section 21080.66, because the Project meets all of the following 
conditions listed in Public Resources Code section 21080.66(a):
a.
The site, at 1.22 acres, is less than 20 acres in size;
b.
The site is located within the City of San Mateo;
c.
The site is developed with urban uses: retail car sales and housing, and is surrounded by 
commercial and residential uses; 
d.
The Project is consistent with the General Plan and zoning ordinance; notwithstanding the 
residential density and waivers of development standards granted under State Density Bonus 
Law;
e.
The residential density would result in a density of 148.3 dwelling units per acre, a density 
that is at least one-half of (and is, in fact, greater than) the density threshold set by 
Government Code section 65583.2(c)(3)(B);
f.
The site is not located within: 1) a coastal zone, 2) prime farmland or farmland of statewide 
importance and is not zoned or designated for agricultural protection or preservation, 3) 
wetlands, 4) a very high fire hazard severity zone, 5) a hazardous waste site, 6) a delineated 
earthquake fault zone, 7) a special flood hazard area, 8) a regulatory floodway, 9) lands 
identified for conservation in an adopted natural community conservation plan, habitat 
conservation plan, or other adopted natural resource protection plan, 10) habitat for 
protected species identified as candidate, sensitive, or species of special status by state or 
federal agencies, fully protected species, or species protected by the federal Endangered 
Species Act of 1973, the California Endangered Species Act, or the Native Plant Protection Act, 
or 11) lands under a conservation easement;
g.
The site does not contain any historic structure(s) listed on a national, state, or local register; 
h.
No portion of the new development would be used as a hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn, 
or provide other transient lodging; and
i.
The Project is not located within 500 feet of a freeway.
In addition, the Project completed tribal consultation pursuant to Public Resources Code section 
21080.66(b)(1), with one tribe participating in the consultation process. Appropriate conditions 
are included in the Conditions of Approval to avoid significant impacts to tribal cultural resources.
2.
The Site Plan and Architectural Review, the Site Development Planning Application, and the 
Vesting Tentative Parcel Map to construct 181 residential units with associated parking, 
landscaping, open space, and related improvements within the public right-of-way, is approved.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, AS 
FOLLOWS:
General Plan Conformance
1.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the General Plan 2040 Land Use Element.
a.
Policy LU 1.1 Equitable Development. Prioritize development projects that meet social and 
economic needs of the economically vulnerable populations to address and reverse the 
underlying socioeconomic factors in the community that contribute to residential and social 
segregation in the city. Provide a range of housing types, sizes, and affordability levels in all 
San Mateo neighborhoods. 
b.
Policy LU 1.3 Optimize Development Opportunities. Encourage new development in major 
commercial and transit-oriented development areas, including the Downtown, Caltrain 
station areas, and the El Camino Real corridor, to maximize the density and intensity specified 
in the Land Use Plan and to efficiently use land and infrastructure resources.

--- page 11 ---
c.
Policy LU 3.1 Housing Diversity. Promote safe, attractive, and walkable residential 
neighborhoods with diverse types and sizes of homes for individuals, families, and households 
of all income levels.
The Project supports equitable development by providing a diverse mix of dwellings, including 
studio, one-, two-, and three-bedrooms, including 162 market-rate dwellings and 19 dwellings 
reserved for VLI households, within one-half mile of the Downtown Burlingame Caltrain Station. 
The Project optimizes development opportunities by replacing an underutilized commercial 
property and one residential duplex with high-quality residential development that incorporates 
on-site amenities and open spaces. The Project supports housing diversity by offering a range of 
dwelling sizes (from 533 to 1,500 square feet) and bedroom configurations (studio, one-, two-, 
and three-bedroom units).
2.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the General Plan 2040 Circulation Element.
a.
Policy C 3.2 Pedestrian Enhancements with New Development. Require new development 
projects to provide sidewalks and pedestrian ramps and to repair or replace damaged 
sidewalks, in addition to right-of-way improvements identified in adopted City master plans. 
Encourage new developments to include pedestrian-oriented design to facilitate pedestrian 
path of travel.
b.
Policy C 4.5 Bicycle Improvements. Require new developments to construct or contribute to 
improvements that enhance the cyclist’s experience, including bicycle lanes and bicycle 
parking.
c.
Policy C 6.3 Local Transportation Analysis. Require site-specific transportation impact 
analysis following the City’s adopted Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Policy for 
development projects where there may be an adverse condition or effect on the roadway 
system.
The Project will enhance the pedestrian environment by replacing the existing sidewalks with six 
curb cuts/driveways along the site frontage to install new sidewalks with pedestrian-scaled 
lighting, landscape planters with street trees, and new bulb-outs and ADA curb ramps at the 
intersection of San Mateo Drive and State Street and at San Mateo Drive and Villa Terrace. The 
Project will improve the cyclist’s experience by providing 12 short-term and 196 long-term bicycle 
parking spaces and new bike lanes along North San Mateo Drive. 
To demonstrate compliance with Policy C 6.3 and the City’s adopted Transportation Impact 
Analysis (TIA) Policy for development projects, a site-specific transportation impact analysis was 
prepared. The trip generation analysis found that the Project would generate 807 average daily 
trips, with 69 trips (16 inbound and 53 outbound) during the AM peak hour and 69 trips (44 
inbound and 25 outbound) during the PM peak hour. The analysis also concluded that the three 
study intersections would operate at an acceptable Level of Service (LOS) with and without the 
addition of project trips under four scenarios: existing conditions, opening year plus Project, 
cumulative conditions, and cumulative plus the Project. Overall, the LTA found that the Project 
would not result in any significant local traffic or circulation impacts.
3.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of Housing Element 2023-2031.
a.
Policy H 1.5 Encourage Family Housing. Prioritize creation of housing that addresses the 
needs of large families, providing greater housing choice. 
The Project will encourage family housing by expanding housing options in the area for a range of 
household sizes and income levels, such as 1) family housing by providing a range of dwelling sizes

--- page 12 ---
and configurations (including 56 two- and three-bedroom dwellings), and 2) below market and 
market-rate households by providing 19 dwellings reserved for VLI households and 162 for market 
rate households, in a new building supported by residential amenities. 
4.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the General Plan 2040 Community Design and 
Historic Resources Element.
a.
Policy CD 3.2 Replacement Planting. Require appropriate replacement planting or payment 
of an in-lieu fee when protected trees on public or private property are removed.
b.
Policy CD 3.6 New Development Street Trees. Require street tree planting where feasible as 
a condition of all new developments.
c.
Policy CD 4.3 Tribal Consultation. Consult with Native American representatives, including 
through early coordination, to identify locations of importance to Native Americans, including 
archaeological sites, sacred sites, traditional cultural properties, and other types of tribal 
cultural resources. Respect tribal concerns if a tribe has a religious prohibition against 
revealing information about specific practices or locations.
d.
Policy CD 6.8 Public Art. Continue to require public art as part of new development and 
ensure the art is visible and accessible to the public. Support public art as a resource that 
enhances the quality of life for individuals living in, working in, and visiting.
e.
Policy CD 7.3 Multifamily Design. Encourage architectural design of new multifamily 
developments that enhances a neighborhood’s visual and architectural character by providing 
context sensitive building and pedestrian-scale elements, high-quality materials and 
construction, open space, and resident amenities.
f.
Policy CD 7.4 Multifamily Parking. Require new multifamily developments to design and site 
parking to avoid blank, ground-floor walls and to screen views of parking from the street.
g.
Policy CD 7.5 Multifamily Open Space. Require that a portion of required open space for new 
multifamily projects be useable for passive or active recreation.
The Project will plant new street trees along North San Mateo Drive, State Street, and Villa Terrace 
and will be subject to payment of applicable in-lieu fees. Tribal consultation for the Project was 
completed, and the conditions required under AB 130 at the Muwekma Ohlone Tribe’s request 
are included in the Conditions of Approval to avoid significant impacts to tribal cultural resources. 
The Project will support public art to enhance the quality of life for individuals living in, working 
in, and visiting, by paying the in-lieu fees that apply. The Project will enhance the neighborhood’s 
visual and architectural character as demonstrated by compliance with the City’s Objective Design 
Standards.
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR)
1.
The Site Plan and Architectural Review application, per SMMC section 27.08.030(a), may be 
approved, based on the associated Conditions of Approval, and the following findings:
a.
The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of 
the neighborhood in that:
i.
The existing development along North San Mateo Drive and within the larger 
neighborhood is primarily low-density, with one to three-story buildings. The 
proposed six-story building that would cover most of the site and contain 181 
dwellings represents a mass and residential density that is much greater than the 
prevailing building form and density in the neighborhood. Nonetheless, the proposed 
building form and residential density reflect the City’s General Plan goals and policies 
to maximize the density and intensity and efficiently use land and infrastructure 
resources (such as Policy LU 1.3).

--- page 13 ---
ii.
The Project proposes a high-quality, contemporary design, incorporating materials 
and details that positively enhance the existing character of the neighborhood and 
surrounding area, as documented by the application of the City’s ODS standards to 
this Project.
b.
The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City in 
that:
i.
In recognition that the existing building form and residential density would not be 
sufficient to meet the City’s Regional Housing Needs Allocation (RHNA), the General 
Plan increased building height and residential density in 10 areas of the City, to 
include this site. The Project supports harmonious and orderly growth in the City by 
proposing a six-story building in compliance with the General Plan’s increased 
building height and residential density. The residential density provided by the Project 
will result in the production of more housing, in particular affordable housing, to help 
meet the City’s current and future needs, as well as help the City make progress 
towards its RHNA obligation. In addition, the building height, mass, and related 
residential density of the Project is consistent with State Density Bonus Law.
ii.
The Project would intensify an underutilized site with a building and uses that fulfill 
the site’s development potential.
iii.
The Project provides higher-density multifamily housing near transit and jobs.
iv.
While the proposed six-story building would be taller and more massive than the 
surrounding development, pursuant to the 2040 General Plan, recent construction in 
the City is transforming low-rise areas with taller, denser development. The increased 
population and street activity that will result from the Project will help improve the 
attractiveness and vitality of the commercial uses in the area and provide housing for 
new residents who wish to live in San Mateo. 
v.
The Project will provide 180 off-street parking spaces, despite being exempted from 
minimum parking standards under State law, to accommodate expected demand for 
residential parking.
vi.
The Project is consistent with the General Plan, Zoning Code, and the City’s Objective 
Design Standards, except where modifications are mandated by State Density Bonus 
Law.
vii.
The Project is in conformance with the Bicycle Master Plan and the Citywide 
Pedestrian Master Plan.
c.
The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, 
and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in that:
i.
The Project represents a significant private investment to produce new housing in an 
area that has not seen significant public or private investment. 
ii.
The Project supports the public health, safety, or welfare of the City by paying 
approximately $5.9 million in development impact fees.
iii.
The Project provides new market-rate and below-market-rate housing to provide new 
users for area businesses, housing for local jobs, and new housing options for the 
community.
iv.
The Project, as conditioned, would not result in any significant impacts to public 
health, safety, or welfare.
v.
The Project provides right-of-way improvements along North San Mateo Drive, State 
Street, and Villa Terrace. 
vi.
The Project will be constructed in compliance with all applicable building and fire 
codes, as well as the City’s building security requirements.

--- page 14 ---
d.
The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission and 
City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the zoning 
ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site, in that:
i.
The Project complies with the applicable General Plan, Zoning Code, and Objective 
Design Standards, and will correct any violations of the Zoning Ordinance or Building 
Code associated with the site by replacing all structures and uses. 
e.
The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security in that the buildings, paths of travel, and parking facilities will be 
required to conform to the City’s current Security Ordinance through Conditions of Approval, 
in that:
i.
The Project complies with the City’s Security Ordinance by providing a physical 
security plan and a site lighting plan through the Conditions of Approval, which are 
intended to promote crime prevention. 
Site Development Planning Application (SDPA)
1.
The project grading activities are exempt from the requirements for Site Development Planning 
Application per SMMC section 23.40.030(d)(1), as the excavations are within the footprint of the 
building and will only involve building footings and a basement level for parking. Therefore, the 
Site Development Planning Application review is limited to the removal of major vegetation.
2.
All concerns regarding the removal of major vegetation have been addressed, and the Site 
Development Planning Application (SMMC section 23.40.040) and associated Conditions of 
Approval are approved based on the following findings and factors:
a.
Whether the natural landscape and major vegetation is unnecessarily scarred through the 
proposed grading or removal of vegetation;
i.
The Project will not scar a natural landscape, and any major vegetation to be removed 
is only to accommodate the Project.
b.
Review and consideration of the Project is informed by an Arborist Report that was prepared 
in compliance with SMMC Chapters 27.71 and 13.40:
i.
The Project will result in the removal of 19 existing trees, of which four are protected. 
The removal of 17 trees onsite is necessary to facilitate the development of the 
Project. The removal of two trees within the public right-of-way would remove trees 
deemed by the Arborist to be unsuitable in their existing locations.
ii.
All trees will be removed and replaced with appropriate landscaping to both enhance 
the site and create necessary buffers between surrounding properties. 
iii.
All concerns regarding tree removal on the site have been addressed as conditions of 
approval requiring conformance to the City's landscape regulations, through the 
provision of new tree planting as shown on the project plans, and/or through the 
payment of a fee to the City’s tree planting fund.
Vesting Tentative Parcel Map (VTM)
1.
The Project would merge the four parcels into one parcel. Per SMMC section 26.48.060, the 
Planning Commission must deny the Vesting Tentative Parcel Map, if any of the following are true: 
a.
That the proposed map is not consistent with applicable general and specific plans.
b.
That the design or improvement of the proposed subdivision is not consistent with applicable 
general and specific plans.
c.
That the site is not physically suitable for the type of development.
d.
That the site is not physically suitable for the proposed density of development.
e.
That the design of the subdivision or the proposed improvements are likely to cause 
substantial environmental damage or substantially and avoidably injure fish or wildlife or their 
habitat.

--- page 15 ---
f.
That the design of the subdivision or type of improvements is likely to cause serious public 
health problems.
g.
That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvements will conflict with easements, 
acquired by the public at large, for access through or use of, property within the proposed 
subdivision. In this connection, the governing body may approve a map if it finds that 
alternate easements, for access or for use, will be provided, and that these will be 
substantially equivalent to ones previously acquired by the public. This subsection shall apply 
only to easements of record or to easements established by judgment of a court of competent 
jurisdiction and no authority is hereby granted to a legislative body to determine that the 
public at large has acquired easements for access through or use of property within the 
proposed subdivision.
The Planning Commission, based on the findings provided above, finds that the Vesting Tentative 
Parcel Map would facilitate the construction of the building and must be approved because:
i.
The parcel map will facilitate the development of new housing that is consistent with the 
General Plan;
ii.
That the design and improvements associated with the parcel map are consistent with 
applicable general and specific plans;
iii.
The site is suitable for the type (multifamily housing) and density (146.7 dwelling units 
per acre);
iv.
The Project will not result in environmental damage or substantially and avoidably injure 
fish or wildlife or their habitat, because the Project would redevelop a site developed with 
urban uses, that does not provide habitat for fish or wildlife, on a site that is not near a 
body of water or creek, with a new building and use that will be constructed and operated 
in compliance with current standards regarding stormwater, air quality, noise, and 
nighttime lighting;
v.
The design and improvements associated with the parcel map will not cause serious 
public health problems because the Project will be constructed and operated in 
compliance with current standards regarding stormwater, air quality, noise, and 
nighttime lighting; and
vi.
The design and improvements associated with the parcel map will not conflict with any 
easements, as none exist on the subject site, and the City has not identified a need for 
any new easements on or adjacent to the site.
2.
For the reasons stated above, and subject to the associated Conditions of Approval, the Planning 
Commission approves the Vesting Tentative Parcel Map to merge the four parcels into one parcel.

--- page 16 ---


--- page 17 ---
EXHIBIT A
CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING APPLICATION
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
PA-2025-031
715, 723 & 733 NORTH SAN MATEO DRIVE & 247 VILLA TERRACE, SAN MATEO, CA  94401-2222
PARCEL #s: 032-151-130, 032-151-300, 032-151-320 & 032-151-160
AS APPROVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON ___________
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of approval are 
grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. Additional language within a 
condition may further define the timing of required compliance. Types of Building permits include Demolition, 
Shoring/Excavation, Foundation, and Superstructure.
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING PERMIT FOR 
SHORING OR FOUNDATION, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, whichever is issued first, or prior to the deadline 
specified in that condition.
Planning Division (PA)
1.
APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE – All building permit plans, details, and subsequent 
construction shall substantially conform with the approved planning application. This includes but is not 
limited to plans, materials, project description, and other items submitted as part of the approved 
planning application. Any proposed modifications to the approved planning application shall be reviewed 
and approved by the Community Development Director, or their designee, prior to construction of the 
proposed modifications. The Community Development Director, or their designee, shall determine 
whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved planning application, or 
whether a planning application modification is required to be submitted to permit the proposed 
modifications, as required by SMMC section 27.08.080 Modifications. 
2.
BELOW MARKET RATE (BMR) AGREEMENT – In accordance with SMMC section 27.16.050 and 
accompanying BMR Guidelines (Resolution No. 72 – 2025), the applicant shall execute and record a Below 
Market-Rate Housing Agreement. The Agreement shall be consistent with the approved plans. Any 
modifications shall be subject to the approval of the Community Development Director or their designee. 
3.
LIGHTING – The plans submitted for a building permit shall demonstrate that all lighting is energy efficient 
and designed to minimize light pollution and light spillage on adjacent properties, while protecting public 
safety.
4.
PARKING GARAGE – The project plans shall be revised to implement the recommendations provided 
within the Local Traffic Assessment prepared by Hexagon Transportation Consultants, dated March 5, 
2026, to:
(A) Locate the driveway security gate approximately 30 feet from the sidewalk to minimize the effect 
of queueing on the sidewalk and traffic operations on Villa Terrace; and 
(B) Designate all tandem parking spaces for use by the same dwelling.
5.
TENANT RELOCATION ASSISTANCE – Relocation assistance shall be provided to the existing tenant(s) 
occupying each unit to be demolished at the time the subject planning application is filed, consistent with 
SMMC section 27.02.180 as follows:
(A) A list of available comparable housing within San Mateo County;

--- page 18 ---
(B) A relocation allowance in the form of cash or check equal to three times the current monthly 
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Fair Market Rent for a 
dwelling unit of comparable size and type to the dwelling or room from which the displacement 
occurs; and
(C) A payment not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for actual moving costs and related 
expenses incurred by the tenant household and substantiated by reasonably probative 
documentation.
The Planning Division shall be given notice of the initiation of the tenant relocation process, and shall be 
provided written verification of all compliance with all requirements of this condition subject to the review 
and approval of the Community Development Director, or their designee.
6.
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – This complete list of Conditions of Approval shall be reproduced onto the 
second sheet of all building permit plan sets. 
7.
CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT PLAN – Prior to issuance of any permits, the applicant shall submit a 
Construction Management Plan (CMP) for review and approval by the Community Development Director 
or their designee. The CMP shall be implemented throughout all phases of construction and shall include, 
at a minimum, the following components: 
•
Construction timeline (estimated) including major milestones 
•
Construction Phasing Plan
•
Project 24-Hour Liaison and Disturbance Coordinator Name and Contact Information
•
Construction Sign as required in Pre-Construction Meeting Guide
•
Construction Hours Acknowledgment and Work Hour Waiver Requirements for Extended 
Operations (e.g. large concrete pours, crane hoists, etc.) 
•
Winterization Plan (if excavation/grading will occur in wet season) 
•
Documentation of Adjacent Street Condition (when applicable) 
•
Traffic Control and Logistic Plan 
•
Road or Sidewalk Closure Plan
•
Construction Hauling Routes 
•
Construction Worker Parking Location and Agreements 
•
Construction Materials and Equipment Staging Plan 
•
Construction Equipment List including compliance with applicable Air Quality and Emission 
Regulations 
•
Erosion and Dust Control Plan 
•
Vibration Monitoring Plan 
•
Construction Noise Mitigation Plan 
•
Vector Control Plan 
A full list of requirements for this document can be found within the construction management plan guide 
available on the City website. Any modification to the approved CMP throughout the construction process 
shall be subject to review and approval by the Community Development Director or their designee 
8.
EXCAVATED SOILS – The applicant shall submit a compliance letter from San Mateo County Environmental 
Health Services to the Planning Division subject to the satisfaction of the Community Development 
Director, or their designee. The compliance letter shall indicate that site soils have been tested prior to 
disposal to confirm that the concentration of constituents present in site soils do not exceed hazardous 
waste criteria of local, state and federal regulations. If the concentration of constituents in the project site 
soils exceed hazardous waste criteria, the letter shall also confirm that the soils will be disposed of in 
accordance with local, state, and federal regulations.

--- page 19 ---
9.
PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall pay all outstanding 
planning application fees. 
10.
SACRED LANDS INVENTORY – Prior to issuance of any construction permit, a Sacred Lands Inventory 
request shall be submitted to the Native American Heritage Commission, at the expense of the project 
applicant.  
11.
TRIBAL CULTURAL RECORDS SEARCH – Prior to issuance of any permit associated with implementation of 
this project, a California Historical Resources Information System archaeological records search and a 
tribal cultural records search shall be completed for the project site, at the expense of the project 
applicant.  
Building Division (PA)
12.
ADDRESS ASSIGNMENT – The applicant shall submit an address assignment application for the proposed 
project, subject to the review and approval by the Building Division. 
13.
APPLICABLE BUILDING STANDARDS AND LOCAL CODES – All building permit plans shall demonstrate 
compliance with the applicable California Building Standards Codes and local amendments as adopted by 
the Building Division at the time of filing the building permit application.  
14.
BAAQMD JOB NUMBER – The applicant shall submit an asbestos demolition and renovation notification 
job number (J#) from Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD). 
15.
DEMOLITION – A building permit for demolition shall be issued in accordance with SMMC section 
23.06.100, to the satisfaction of the Building Official or his/her designee. 
16.
PRE-CONSTRUCTION CONFERENCE FOR LARGE PROJECTS – A pre-construction conference shall be held at 
a time and location agreed upon by the City and applicant for the purpose of reviewing Conditions of 
Approval and construction-site procedures. The applicant shall be represented by his design and 
construction staff, which include any sub-contractors. Departments having conditions of approval for the 
project will represent the City. This meeting shall be held prior to issuance of the Demolition Permit, 
Building Permit or Site Development Permit, and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit 
is issued first. 
17.
SITE SURVEY – The applicant shall provide a full site survey stamped and signed by a Land Surveyor 
licensed by the State of California. The survey shall include, but not be limited to: location and dimensions 
of property lines, location of streets and easements, existing buildings, topographic contour lines, 
trees/landscape, and other structures. 
18.
SOILS REPORT AND INVESTIGATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a stamped, signed, and dated 
soils investigation report containing design recommendations and integrate recommendations into the 
plans as-appropriate, to the satisfaction of the Building Official or their designee. The applicant shall also 
submit a letter stamped and signed by the Geotechnical engineer of-record stating the plans and 
specifications substantially conform to the recommendations in the soil report, subject to the satisfaction 
of the Building Official or their designee.  
Fire Department (PA)
19.
FIRE FLOW – The applicant shall provide fire flow information to the Fire Plan Checker, which is subject to 
the review and approval of the Fire Marshal or their designee.

--- page 20 ---
Public Works Department (PA)
20.
ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE – For any work within the Public Right of Way or 
Public Easement, the applicant shall obtain an encroachment permit, posting the required bonds and 
insurance prior to any work being done. Encroachment Permit fees shall be paid prior to review of the 
encroachment permit plans and based on the City’s adopted Comprehensive Fee Schedule. 
21.
TRAFFIC CONTROL & SITE LOGISTICS PLANS – The applicant shall submit traffic control plans for any impact 
to the right-of-way for each phase of operation, including phase durations and pedestrian and bicycle 
detour plans as applicable. The traffic control plan shall comply with the most recent version of the 
California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD) and the City’s Traffic Control Plan 
Requirements. 
22.
GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS – The project plans shall include grading and drainage plans that identify 
the vertical elevation datum, date of survey, and surveyor. Grading plans shall show existing topography 
and features at least 20 feet beyond the project boundary. Plans shall show existing topography, label 
contour elevations, drainage patterns, flow lines, slopes, and all other property encumbrances. 
 
23.
GRADING DEPOSITS – Prior to permit issuance, the Applicant shall provide refundable grading security 
deposit funds or bond to the City based upon the Comprehensive Fee Schedule in effect at the time of 
building permit submittal. The Applicant shall be required to increase the deposit if revisions to the 
approved plans increase the proposed earthwork activities. After substantial completion and stabilization 
of the site, to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works or designee, the City will refund any portion 
of the deposit not utilized by the City or release the bond. 
24.
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PERMIT – In accordance with SMMC section 7.39.170, the 
applicant shall obtain a Stormwater Pollution Prevention (STOPPP) Construction permit for all work 
associated with stormwater pollution prevention, pay the required fees and post the required cash 
deposit. The fee amount will be based upon the Comprehensive Fee Schedule in effect at the time the 
building permit application is submitted. The Applicant shall be required to increase the deposit, at the 
discretion of the City, for any associated costs in excess of the deposit. Prior to final occupancy, the bill 
shall be paid in full. The City will refund any portion of the deposit not utilized. 
25.
CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PERMIT – For construction activities that will disturb one (1) acre or more, the 
Applicant shall file a Notice of Intent (NOI) with the State Water Resources Control Board under the 
Construction Stormwater General Permit (General Permit). Applicant shall provide proof of the General 
Permit and a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) prepared by a qualified SWPPP designer to 
Public Works. 
26.
TIE-BACK AGREEMENT – If the shoring system required to perform the excavation for the project includes 
tie-backs that encroach into the public right-of-way, the Applicant shall execute and record the City's 
standard tie-back agreement prior to the issuance of the shoring building permit. 
27.
SEWER ANALYSIS AND IMPROVEMENT – Prior to building permit issuance, the Applicant shall perform a 
flow monitoring study to assess the actual existing flows along the 8 inch sewer main in San Mateo Drive 
from Villa Terrace to Williams Place. The study will monitor three sewer manholes: MH 179-46X at the 
intersection of San Mateo Drive & Bellevue Ave, and two manholes at the San Mateo Drive & Williams 
Place intersection, MH 179-02X & MH 179-41X. The developer shall provide that study to the City for the 
City to complete a supplementary sewer analysis on the project’s impact on the sewer main. If the 
project's proposed peak flow will cause the sewer main to exceed the City’s threshold of 3 feet of 
freeboard at any structure in San Mateo Drive, between Villa Terrace and Williams Place, per the Sewer

--- page 21 ---
System Master Plan Element 5, then the Applicant shall construct sewer improvements through open-
trench method for upsizing main line to mitigate the impact. The scope for any public sewer 
improvements shall be permitted with or prior to the building permit issuance. 
28.
PARCEL MAP – The applicant shall have a parcel map prepared by a person authorized to practice land 
surveying in California, delineating all parcels created or deleted and all changes in lot lines in 
conformance with SMMC Chapter 26.56. 
The parcel map shall be approved by the Department of Public Works and recorded with the County 
Recorder’s Office prior to the issuance of any City permits. 
Prior to the City’s release of the parcel map to the title company, the applicant may, at the discretion of 
the Director of Public Works or designee, be required to submit to the City an electronic copy of the map 
in PDF and AutoCAD. 
29.
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT – If the applicant wishes to have the parcel map approved 
prior to the completion of the project’s public improvements, the applicant shall enter into a subdivision 
improvement agreement with the City per Government Code section 66462(a) and shall arrange to 
provide security for the remaining public improvements to be completed. The agreement will be 
forwarded to the City Council for approval per SMMC Chapter 3.60. 
CDD Arborist (PA)
30.
LANDSCAPE UNIT IN LIEU FEES – Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the applicant shall pay in-
lieu fees for existing trees to be removed as evaluated in the Tree Evaluation Schedule and Tree Planting 
form during the building permit application review. Existing trees to be removed shall be replaced on-site, 
or a fee shall be paid in lieu of planting trees at the rate established in the annual Comprehensive Fee 
Schedule. 
31.
TREE PROTECTION VERIFICATION LETTER – To verify that all tree protection measures are properly 
implemented, the applicant shall submit a tree protection verification letter prepared by the project 
arborist to the Building Division that includes photographs showing the tree protection installed. The 
letter shall also include a schedule of future inspections by the Project Arborist. The verification letter is 
subject to the review and satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or their designee. 
32.
STREET TREES – The landscape plans shall specify installation of street trees in accordance with the City 
of San Mateo Street Tree Master Plan. In accordance with SMMC section 27.71.120(a)(1), 24-inch box 
shall be the minimum size for street trees planted along public streets and shall include tree grates and 
root barriers as specified by the City Standard Drawings 3-1-847 and 3-1-933. The landscape plans shall 
be subject to the review and approval of the Community Development Director, or their designee. 
33.
STREET TREES – Any tree installed as a result of this project within the public right-of-way abutting this 
site shall comply with the City’s Street Tree Master Plan. Alternative species must be approved by the City, 
and when approved, the property owner will assume all maintenance for the trees, and a private 
maintenance agreement must be prepared to the satisfaction of the Public Works Director. 
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE SUPERSTRUCTURE.
Planning Division (PA)
34.
CHILD CARE FEES – The applicant shall pay a Child Care Development Fee subject to the rate established 
in the City’s adopted Comprehensive Fee Schedule.

--- page 22 ---
35.
INTERIOR ACOUSTICAL ANALYSIS – In compliance with General Plan Policy N 1.2, the applicant shall 
provide 
an 
acoustical 
analysis 
prepared 
by 
a 
qualified 
acoustical 
consultant 
which 
shall contain recommendations to ensure the building’s interior noise levels comply with the levels 
established in the General Plan or Building Code, whichever is more restrictive, subject to the satisfaction 
of the Community Development Director, or their designee. 
36.
EXTERIOR ACOUSTICAL ANALYSIS – In compliance with General Plan Policy N 1.3, the applicant shall 
provide an acoustical analysis prepared by a qualified acoustical consultant for new multifamily common 
open space for residents that have an exterior noise level of 60 dBA (Ldn) or above, as shown on Figure 
N-2 of the General Plan. The applicant shall incorporate necessary mitigation measures into residential 
project design to minimize common open space noise levels. Maximum exterior noise should not exceed 
65 dBA (Ldn) for residential uses.  
37.
LOCATION AND SCREENING OF ABOVE GROUND UTILITIES AND EQUIPMENT – All screening for any 
ground-level utilities, equipment, and other project related operational/utility devices shall be shown on 
the building permit plans in substantial conformance with the approved planning application. All above 
ground utilities and equipment shall be screened with landscaping, fencing, and/or other solid materials 
to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or their designee.  
38.
MECHANICAL VENTILATION – All exterior mechanical ventilation designs for subterranean garages shall 
be shown on the building permit plans in substantial conformance with the approved planning application. 
All mechanical ventilation shall be incorporated into the building design or landscaped areas and be 
screened to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or their designee. 
39.
SCREENING OF ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT – All rooftop mechanical equipment shall be shown 
on the building permit plans in substantial conformance with the approved planning application. All 
equipment shall be painted and/or screened by a solid enclosure or parapet wall with materials 
compatible with the building design subject to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, 
or their designee. 
40.
SIGNAGE – Preliminary signage shown in the approved planning application plans are for information only. 
Final signage shall be reviewed and approved in accordance with Title 25 of the Municipal Code. 
41.
LOCATION AND SCREENING OF ABOVE GROUND UTILITIES AND EQUIPMENT – All screening for any 
ground-level utilities, equipment, and other project related operational/utility devices shall be shown on 
the building permit plans in substantial conformance with the approved planning application. All above 
ground utilities and equipment shall be screened with landscaping, fencing, and/or other solid materials 
to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or their designee. 
Building Division (PA)
42.
CALGREEN – The building permit plans shall incorporate the applicable CALGreen Checklist noting the 
green building measures the project will incorporate in accordance with the California Green Building 
Standards Code and City of San Mateo Reach Codes subject to the review and approval by the Building 
Official, or their designee. Current City of San Mateo CALGreen checklists are located on Building Division 
webpage or will be provided by Community Development Department staff, if requested. 
43.
WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – The applicant shall submit a completed Water Conservation 
in Landscaping Screening Form. If the screening form indicates the project is subject to the Water 
Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance pursuant to SMMC section 23.72.030, additional documentation 
prescribed by the screening form shall also be included with the site plan. City of San Mateo Water

--- page 23 ---
Conservation in Landscaping forms are located on Building Division webpage. The applicant shall submit 
the required landscape documentation package with building permit application subject to the review 
and satisfaction of the Building Official, or their designee. 
Fire Department (PA)
44.
CODE CONFORMANCE – The applicant shall indicate on all building permit plans that all construction shall 
meet current code standards at the time of building permit submittal. The building permit plans are 
subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or their designee. 
45.
FIRE CONTROL ROOM – The plans shall show a fire control room with direct access from the exterior of 
the building subject to the requirements listed in the Fire Department’s local Ordinance and subject to 
the review and approval of the Fire Marshal or their designee.  
46.
FIRE DEPARTMENT SUBMITTALS – The applicant shall submit all plans involving fire systems (including but 
not limited to fire sprinklers, fire hydrants, and fire alarms) in conjunction with the superstructure building 
permit plans to the Fire Department. The plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or 
their designee.  
47.
REMOTE POWER DISCONNECT – The plans shall show a key switch/shunt trip to disconnect the building 
electrical power and/or solar photovoltaic system by Fire Department personnel. The key switch/shunt 
trip location(s) shall be subject to the review and approval of the Fire Marshal or their designee. 
Parks and Recreation Department (PA)
48.
PARK IN-LIEU/IMPACT FEES – The applicant shall pay a Park Impact fee per SMMC (13.05.070) or a fee in 
lieu of dedicating lands for park and recreation purposes (Park In-Lieu fee) (SMMC 26.64). The final fee 
shall be determined and paid prior to the issuance of the first superstructure building permit unless 
otherwise mandated by State Law and approved by the City Council. 
Police Department (PA)
49.
PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS FOR TALL BUILDINGS – The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show compliance with Security Code SMMC “23.54.020 CITY COMMUNICATION 
SYSTEMS – HIGH RISE BUILDINGS”, by providing for the following allowances for the placement of 
emergency communications equipment on the building permit plans:
(A) Enough enclosed space for the equivalent of one dedicated server rack in a locked server room 
that is clean, dry, and well-ventilated (this does not need to be a fire control room); 
(B) One four-inch conduit from the designated server rack through the roof. The conduit shall be 
provided with wide radius bends, a weatherhead on the roof, and a pull string and ring; 
(C) Authorization to mount antennas on the roof. The maximum allowable distance from the 
designated server rack to the antenna mounting location shall be 100 feet; 
(D) One 20-amp, 120 VAC dedicated electrical circuit on the building’s emergency generator. An 
uninterruptable power supply (UPS) may be installed by the City if the building is not provided 
with an emergency generator; 
(E) 12 copper cable pairs to the building’s main telephone terminal; and, 
(F) Ground buss bar bonded to the building grounding system. 
This requirement is in addition to the requirement of the California Fire Code to supply a functional 
emergency responder radio coverage system. 
50.
RESIDENTIAL PARKING GARAGE SECURITY – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show: 
(A) Restricted access to the parking garage with electrically operated closures to allow passage of 
motor vehicles at all times. Required visitor parking shall have unrestricted access. The closures,

--- page 24 ---
whether overhead, sliding or swinging, shall be provided with reopening devices which will function to 
stop and reopen the closure in case the closure is obstructed when closing. Openings into the garage 
which are not for vehicular or human passage shall be provided with security grilles or screens. 
(B) Digital keypads shall be provided to allow for entry by services and emergency services vehicles 
into the garages at all times. Exterior doors or gates providing access into the secure areas of the 
parking garage shall remain locked at all times, and shall only be accessible through the use of 
keys, key fob or remote keyless entry system devices furnished to the building residents. 
Pedestrian access points exiting out of garage shall also be accessible through the use of keys 
furnished to the building residents and shall be equipped with self-closing devices. All storage, 
maintenance, and trash rooms within parking garages shall have doors which cannot be locked 
from the inside, and that close and lock quickly and automatically upon exit. 
(C) Parking spaces shall not be numbered to coincide with interior unit numbers. 
(D) Lighting in the parking garage shall be in conformance with the Security Ordinance as it applies to 
SITE LIGHTING. No dark areas shall exist inside the parking garage 
51.
SECURED BUILDING ACCESS BY EMERGENCY PERSONNEL – The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the detailed specifications for and the installation of telephone entry pads 
(TEPs) and/or wireless “click to enter” systems at the main exterior building entrance(s) and parking 
garage entrance(s) for secured buildings. These access systems must allow emergency personnel to access 
all levels of the interior of the building. The access systems must also be installed at exterior gate locations 
that lead to secured areas of the site, such as interior courtyards. Access system placement location is 
subject to the review and approval of the Chief of Police or their designee, prior to the approval of the 
first building permit for the project. Police access codes shall be as provided by the Chief of Police or their 
designee at the time of installation. 
52.
VIDEO SURVEILLANCE SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall 
include a plan showing the installation of cameras and approximate viewing fields of surveillance cameras 
to be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police or their designee. The plan shall include cameras 
placed to view areas as required by VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS, and include select specifications 
for cameras and storage equipment to ensure compliance with the VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS. 
Public Works Department (PA)
53.
C3 COMPLIANCE – The project shall provide stormwater controls and treatment measures in compliance 
with the requirements of the Municipal Regional Permit NPDES Permit # CAS612008 and the San Mateo 
County C.3 Stormwater Technical Guidance. The project’s grading, drainage, and treatment designs shall 
be in substantial conformance with the approved plans and subject to the final approval of the Director 
of Public Works or designee.
The project plans shall include a Stormwater Management Plan that identifies the project site area, new 
and/or replaced pervious and impervious areas, drainage management areas, treatment measures, sizing 
calculations, source controls and site design measures implemented, saturated hydraulic conductivity 
rates at relevant locations or hydrologic soil type (A, B, C, or D) and information sources, elevations of 
seasonal high groundwater table, and a summary of how the project complies with C.3 requirements.
Treatment measures shall be sized to accommodate runoff their full tributary drainage area or provide a 
separate bypass system such that the treatment measure is not surcharged and act as a bypass.  
54.
DRAINAGE – The project shall be designed to maintain or reduce the stormwater runoff peak flow at each 
of the project’s discharge point(s) to the public storm drain system. The project shall direct all runoff

--- page 25 ---
directly to the City’s storm drain system without passing through adjacent properties not part of this 
project. Applicant shall submit plans, drawings, and storm calculations to demonstrate the design 
complies with these requirements. 
55.
GARBAGE/RECYCLE/COMPOSTING STORAGE AND SERVICE – The applicant shall provide an adequate area 
for the purposes of storing garbage, recycling, composting collection containers for scheduled servicing 
by the franchise solid waste collection service. The containers shall be placed at the service location 
allowing enough room for the truck to safely approach the containers. The collection containers shall be 
brought to the service area and returned to the storage enclosure by the property owner. The containers 
are not to be in public view or in the public right-of-way prior to, or beyond the scheduled service times. 
An approved letter from the City’s franchise solid waste collection service provider stating that service is 
available to the project as designed has been received. Any revisions made to the approved letter shall be 
reflected in the building permit plans. The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show garbage 
and recycling areas. 
56.
INITIAL STORM AND SANITARY SEWER ASSESSMENT – The applicant shall perform an initial inspection (via 
remote TV camera) of the mainline storm and sanitary sewer from the nearest upstream structure to the 
nearest downstream structure of the project’s point of connections. During the initial inspection, any 
damage must be reported to the Department of Public Works. The applicant shall perform the same 
inspection once construction is completed. Damage in result of this project’s construction shall be 
repaired by the applicant at their expense. 
57.
PARKING STALLS OR LOTS – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall include all required off 
street parking stalls or lots, showing proper grading, drainage, ramps profile, and parking dimensions in 
conformance with City parking standards. Drainage should be directed to adjacent landscaping wherever 
possible. 
58.
PERMANENT STRUCTURES – The applicant shall locate all project fencing, railing, foundations, and any 
other structures of a permanent nature entirely within the project’s property and out of the City right-of-
way. 
59.
STREETLIGHTS PHOTOMETRICS – The applicant shall provide a lighting “photometrics” plan for streetlights 
in the public right-of-way with the civil plans. The lighting plan shall comply with the following: 
(A) Be based on photometric analysis consistent with the Illuminating Engineering Society’s (IES) 
Recommended Practice For Design And Maintenance Of Roadway And Parking Facility Lighting 
(ANSI/IES RP-8-18) and achieve the required lighting levels using the least number of luminaires 
possible, using a consistent pattern of luminaire placement, and shall include luminaires on both 
sides of the street if such a pattern reduces the number of luminaires required, unless otherwise 
approved by the City. Utilize the City’s list of standard luminaires at the time of design for selection 
of any new or replacement luminaires proposed by the project. 
(B) Include a design for lighting all public streets, intersections, sidewalks, pedestrian paths, and 
bicycle facilities located in the public roadway right-of-way adjacent to the project site to meet 
the lighting levels per the photometric analysis. 
(C) Include only City owned streetlights within the public right-of-way, or located in an easement on 
private property, unless otherwise approved by the City. 
(D) Include pedestrian scale lighting if pedestrian scale lighting is already in use on the block of the 
project frontage, or if the City’s Pedestrian Master Plan recommends pedestrian scale lighting on 
the project frontage.

--- page 26 ---
(E) Include separate analysis zones for each street, each sidewalk by frontage, and each intersection, 
configured according to the City’s standard practice in use at the time the analysis is begun. Show 
each photometric analysis zone with point illuminance values.
(F) Include the following information about each luminaire included in the analysis:
1)
Location
2)
Type (Indicated by the City’s specification name)
3)
Mounting height
4)
Arm length
5)
Total luminaire Light Loss Factor (LLF) 
(G) Include a table displaying the following values for the analysis zones:
1)
Average Maintained Illuminance (fc)
2)
Average Uniformity Ratio
3)
Maximum Uniformity Ratio
4)
Maximum Point Illuminance Value (fc)
5)
Minimum Point Illuminance Value (fc)
(H) Maintain the following minimum spacing between luminaires:
1)
50 feet between pedestrian scale luminaires on the same side of the street.
2)
100 feet between all other types of luminaires on the same side of the street.
3)
50 feet between luminaires of mixed types.
4)
Reduced spacing may be approved by the City if the photometric analysis indicates it is 
necessary to meet the required lighting levels.
(I) Lighting Level Requirements (Illuminance Method)
-
N San Mateo Dr – Road: 1.3 fc Average, 3.0 Average Uniformity Ratio, 5.0 Max Uniformity 
Ratio
-
N San Mateo Dr – Sidewalk: 0.5 fc Average, 4.0 Average Uniformity Ratio
-
State St – Road: 0.7 fc Average, 6.0 Average Uniformity Ratio, 10.0 Max Uniformity Ratio
-
State St – Sidewalk: 0.5 fc Average, 4.0 Average Uniformity Ratio
-
Villa Terrace – Road: 0.7 fc Average, 6.0 Average Uniformity Ratio, 10.0 Max Uniformity 
Ratio
-
Villa Terrace – Sidewalk: 0.5 fc Average, 4.0 Average Uniformity Ratio
-
N San Mateo Dr & State St - Intersection: 1.9 fc Average, 3.0 Average Uniformity Ratio
-
N San Mateo Dr & Villa Terrace - Intersection: 1.9 fc Average, 3.0 Average Uniformity Ratio
60.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS – The applicant shall have improvement plans prepared for all work in the public 
right-of-way or easements by a licensed civil engineer. The improvement plans shall substantially conform 
to the approved planning application and shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee. 
All work within the City’s right of way shall be designed and constructed to the City Standards and 
Specifications unless otherwise noted. All public improvements shall be completed prior to the issuance 
of the final Certificate of Occupancy.
An Encroachment Permit shall be required for all public improvements in the public right-of-way or 
easements. All work shown on the improvement plans shall be inspected and approved by Public Works. 
The developer shall repair or replace all existing or new improvements that were damaged or removed 
because of developer’s operations.
The public improvement plans shall show the following public improvements in the public right of way: 
(A) SIGNAGE AND STRIPING – The applicant shall install traffic signage and striping of a material and 
design approved by the Director of Public Works or designee and replace any that are damaged 
during construction. These include but are not limited to all pavement markings, painted curbs 
and handicap markings. All permanent pavement markings shall be thermoplastic. Color and

--- page 27 ---
location of painted curbs shall be shown on the plans and subject to approval by the Director of 
Public Works or designee. Any existing painted curb or pavement markings no longer required 
shall be removed by grinding if thermoplastic, sand blasting if in paint. Once installed, the 
applicant shall coordinate with City crews to mark any red curb within the proposed City right-of-
way with a City seal. The Solid Waste Collection staging area utilizes the loading zone located in 
the City right-of-way and the applicant shall install yellow curb and appropriate signage to 
facilitate service times.
(B) LOADING ZONE IN THE PUBLIC ROW – The applicant shall install a loading zone as shown on the 
approved plans along State St. 
(C) SIDEWALK – The applicant shall replace all sidewalk fronting the project site with A.5. Sidewalk 
Standards – Residential Type C New Development from the City’s Pedestrian Master Plan. 
Sidewalk replacement shall be constructed per current City Standard. Sidewalks fronting the 
project property must comply to Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) standards. 
(D) CURB RAMPS – The applicant shall construct curb ramp(s) in accordance with Caltrans Standard 
Plan A88A at N San Mateo Dr & State St and N San Mateo Dr & Villa Terrace. The actual ramp 
“Case” shall be identified on the plans and shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or 
designee or designee. 
(E) CURB AND GUTTER – The applicant shall replace to existing City standards all curb and gutter 
fronting the project site and as required for restoration purposes. New curb and gutter shall be 
constructed per current City Standard, or as otherwise shown on the approved plan set. 
(F) DRIVEWAY APPROACH – The applicant shall install City Standard Commercial driveway approach 
on Villa Terrace as shown on the approved plans. The applicant shall install a short apron along 
State St to facilitate the Solid Waste Staging Area as shown on the approved plans. The applicant 
shall install pedestrian warning system at project driveway.
(G) SEWER LATERAL – The applicant shall install two 6 inch minimum City Standard sewer lateral 
connections from the property line to the sewer main located on N San Mateo Dr. The installation 
shall be done in accordance with City Standard Drawings. 
(H) SANITARY SEWER MANHOLES – The applicant shall install two standard sanitary sewer manholes 
on N San Mateo Dr, per approved plans and in accordance with City Standard Drawings.
(I) STORM WATER CONNECTION – The applicant shall connect to the City storm main along State St 
at two points using wye connections, in accordance with City Standard Drawings, as shown on the 
approved plans.
(J) STORM WATER CATCH BASIN – The applicant shall replace existing catch basin at the proposed 
bioretention along Villa Terrace to include overflow drain inlet per approved plans and in 
accordance with City Standard Details.
(K) STREETLIGHTING IMPROVEMENTS – The applicant shall provide streetlight improvement plans 
with the civil plans a The Streetlight Improvement Plan shall: 
1)
Implement the project’s Lighting Plan from their project frontage to the roadway 
centerline.
2)
Implement improvements beyond the project frontage or the roadway centerline if such 
improvements are necessary to provide a functioning lighting system.
3)
Show all work necessary to construct the streetlight improvements for which the project 
is responsible to implement.
4)
Include all electrical calculations (i.e. voltage drop) required for design of a functional 
streetlight system that complies with all applicable codes and standards.
5)
Shows location of connection to existing streetlight circuit(s).
6)
Shows location of proposed new electrical service connections.
7)
Include a map showing the full extent of all streetlight circuits that will include project 
lighting improvements. This map shall include information necessary for verifying voltage

--- page 28 ---
drop calculations and may also be used for submittal to the serving utility as part of an 
electrical service modification application. At a minimum the map shall include:
a.
Location and wattage of all streetlight luminaires on the circuit.
b.
Streetlight pole numbers.
c.
Length of conduit runs used for voltage drop calculations. Lengths may be labeled 
directly on the plan view or presented in a conduit run schedule.
It shall be the applicant’s responsibility to verify the location of all existing streetlight equipment 
and infrastructure, including, but not limited to, underground conduits, pull boxes, poles, and 
electrical service connections, as needed for the preparation of the Lighting Plan and the 
Streetlight Improvement Plan. The applicant shall be responsible for coordinating all lighting 
improvements with the serving utility, including preparing all required documents and 
attachments, attending all field meetings requested by the serving utility, submitting applications 
for new or modified electrical service.
The applicant shall be responsible for all costs charged by the serving utility associated with the 
project’s streetlight improvements, including but not limited to application fees, permit fees, 
engineering charges, and construction charges. 
61.
STORM DRAIN INLETS AND WATERWAYS – The building permit plans shall show the marking of the words 
“No Dumping! Flows to Bay,” or equivalent, on all storm inlets surrounding and within the project site 
using methods approved by the City standards, consistent with the San Mateo Countywide Water 
Pollution Prevention Program’s C.3 requirements 
62.
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE – The applicant shall pay a fee proportional to the project’s share 
of transportation improvements needed to serve cumulative development within the City of San Mateo, 
as established by SMMC Chapter 27.13. The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department and 
paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the City’s 
adopted Comprehensive Fee Schedule. 
63.
TRASH CAPTURE DEVICES – The building permits shall show installation of trash capture devices in storm 
drain systems that lead directly to the off-site storm drain system or outfall. Devices shall be approved by 
the Director of Public Works or designee or designee. Trash capture devices are required on site consistent 
with the State Water Resources Control Board definition of Full Capture System. All on-site trash capture 
devices shall be cleaned routinely and maintained by the Owner per the Stormwater Treatment Facilities 
Maintenance Agreement. The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show trash capture 
devices. 
64.
TRIANGULAR AREA OF VISIBILITY – Per the approved plan set and Local Transportation Analysis 
recommendations, the building permit plans for the superstructure shall show 6 feet of red curb on both 
sides of the driveway. The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show that the installation of 
landscaping and permanent structures located within the 45-foot triangular area of visibility at any project 
corner meets the requirements of a minimum vertical clearance of 7 feet, and/or are less than 3 feet in 
height. This includes all PG&E above ground structures and other utility facilities. 
65.
UNDERGROUND (OR COVERED) PARKING GARAGE DRAINAGE – The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show that water from the underground (or covered) parking garage shall not be 
discharged onto the public street. The applicant shall direct discharge from covered or underground 
garage to the City’s sanitary sewer system. Stormwater runoff from the roof or other exposed areas of 
the project shall not discharge to these garage drains. The design shall be done by a licensed Civil Engineer

--- page 29 ---
who shall provide hydraulic calculations and drawings subject to the approval of the Director of Public 
Works or designee. 
66.
UNDERGROUND UTILITY SERVICES – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show the 
installation of all new, and upgraded, utility services, including telephone, electric power, and other 
communications lines underground to the building in accordance with SMMC section 26.32.020. 
Transformers and switch gear cabinets shall be placed in accordance with the approved plan set. 
67.
UTILITIES – Utility plans shall be submitted as part of the building permit plans for the superstructure and 
shall show appropriate line types and labels to identify different type of utilities and pipe sizes. Clearly 
identify both existing and proposed public and private utilities.
The Developer shall provide joint trench composite plans for the underground electrical, gas, telephone, 
cable television, and communication conduits and cables including the size, location and details of all 
trenches, locations of building utility service stubs and meters and placements or arrangements of 
junction structures.
Sanitary sewer laterals and/or water meters located in driveways shall have traffic rated boxes and lids.
Developer is required to confirm the location of existing utility lines along the project frontage by 
potholing. Prior to any potholing, developer shall obtain an encroachment permit and submit a pothole 
plan for City review and approval. Developer shall provide the pothole results to the Director of Public 
Works or designee or designee prior to final design. Any utility conflicts shall be the responsibility of the 
developer to rectify. 
68.
WASTEWATER CAPACITY CHARGE – A wastewater capacity charge, as established by SMMC section 
7.38.065, is imposed on all new development to recover a proportionate share of costs for existing and 
future wastewater system facilities and assets from new or expanded connections to City wastewater 
systems. The applicable wastewater capacity charge is determined by use, wastewater flow, and 
wastewater strength loadings and the amount shall be established by City Council resolution. The fee shall 
be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure building 
permit. The fee shall be based on the City’s adopted Comprehensive Fee Schedule. 
69.
WILL SERVE LETTER FOR WATER – A Will Serve Letter from the water company shall be supplied to the 
Director of Public Works or designee.  
70.
ENCROACHMENT AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT – Applicant shall enter into a City-approved 
Encroachment and Maintenance agreement for the improvements encroaching into a Public Utility 
Easement or public right of way prior to the issuance of the building permit. The applicant shall have the 
agreement recorded against the owner’s property that indemnifies and holds harmless the City, its elected 
and appointed officials, employees and agents. The agreement shall include language in which the 
applicant agrees to allow access to any utility company wishing to have access to the public right-of-way 
for existing or new utility installation. The agreement shall also include language that requires the removal 
of the improvements, at the owner’s expense, should the City desire to use the right-of-way for street, 
sidewalk or other purposes identified by the Director of Public Works or designee. The agreement shall 
be approved as to form by the City Attorney’s Office and shall be recorded against the owner’s property 
prior to the issuance of any City encroachment permit.

--- page 30 ---
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE OF THE 
PROJECT.
Planning Division (PA)
71.
CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT PLAN COMPLIANCE – The applicant shall implement and remain in full 
compliance with the approved Construction Management Plan throughout all phases of construction. All 
construction activities shall be conducted in a manner consistent with the approved plan. Any deviation 
from, or modification to the approved Construction Management Plan shall require prior review and 
approval by the Community Development Director or their designee. Consistent with the requirements of 
the CMP, construction disturbances reports shall be submitted monthly to provide timely updates on 
project impacts. 
Violations of any portion of the approved Construction Management Plan or other applicable construction 
management requirement may result in the issuance of a “Stop Work Order”. 
72.
FRAME/PLANNING ROUGH INSPECTION – Upon completion of all framing and prior to the installation of 
exterior sheathing and windows, the applicant shall request the Project Planner conduct a Rough Frame 
inspection to verify items including, but not limited to, window locations, window sizes, and massing. The 
applicant shall contact the Project Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance 
of the requested inspection. 
73.
PALEONTOLOGICAL RESOURCES – In the event of the discovery of paleontological resources (fossils) 
whether on-site or in the public right-of-way, the applicant shall halt all construction activities within 50 
feet of the discovery, notify the Planning Manager and/or Project Planner, and retain a qualified 
paleontologist to determine the significance of the discovery. The paleontologist shall evaluate the 
uniqueness of the find, prepare a written report documenting the find and recommending further courses 
of action, and submit a summary of findings to the Project Planner. The applicant shall incorporate the 
recommendations of the paleontologist when continuing construction. 
Building Division (PA)
74.
CONSTRUCTION WORK HOURS – Construction shall occur only between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 
p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on Saturday, and between 12:00 noon 
and 4:00 p.m. on Sundays and holidays. These hours do not apply to construction that takes place inside 
a completely enclosed building and does not exceed the exterior ambient noise level as measured 10 feet 
from the exterior property lines. The applicant shall conform to the construction work hours to control 
traffic congestion, noise, and dust unless an exemption is granted in accordance with SMMC section 
23.06.061. 
Fire Department (PA)
75.
ADDRESS NUMBERS – The applicant shall post temporary address numbers on each building at the project 
site that must be easily visible from the street or fire access road. 
76.
DEMOLITION – The applicant shall comply with the California Fire Code Chapter 33 during all phases of 
construction of the project.  
77.
EGRESS – The applicant shall maintain required egress for all adjacent buildings/properties.  
78.
STANDPIPES – For projects that require standpipes by California Fire Code section 905.3.1, the applicant 
shall provide not less than one standpipe for use during construction or demolition.

--- page 31 ---
Public Works Department (PA)
79.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all construction activities in 
accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control Rules and Regulations 
(SMMC 7.39), and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) Construction 
Best Management Practices. 
CDD Arborist (PA)
80.
TREE PROTECTION MEASURES – All approved tree protection measures shall remain in place and be 
properly maintained during all phases of construction. The applicant or contractor shall notify the Project 
Arborist in advance when construction operations are to be performed within the Tree Protection Zone 
of protected trees. (e.g. trenching, excavation, grade changes, etc.) Adjustment of Tree Protection 
Measures requires approval from the City Arborist. 
81.
PROJECT ARBORIST INSPECTIONS – The Project Arborist shall submit a report to the Building Division 
within five business days after each of their inspection documenting the condition of trees, protection 
measures changes or adjustments, and/or any damages to Protected trees. 
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, ISSUANCE OF A 
TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, whichever occurs 
first.
Planning Division (PA)
82.
ACOUSTICAL COMPLIANCE LETTER – The applicant shall submit an acoustical compliance letter to the 
Project Planner written and signed by the project acoustical consultant indicating all recommendations 
incorporated into the project to reach compliance with the noise limits listed in Tables N-1 of the Noise 
Element and in compliance with Policies N1.2 and N 1.3 of the General Plan. This letter shall 
be submitted prior to scheduling the Planning Final Inspection. 
83.
ART IN PUBLIC PLACES – The applicant shall meet all requirements of SMMC section 23.60 for art in public 
places by providing artwork approved by the Civic Arts Commission in a manner satisfactory to the 
Community Development Director, and/or by paying an in-lieu fee to the Art in Public Places Fund as 
described in SMMC section 23.60.060. 
84.
LANDSCAPE VERIFICATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a landscape verification letter to the 
Project Planner written, signed, and stamped by the project landscape architect indicating that all on-site 
and off-site landscape improvements (including on-site trees, street trees, shrubs, and irrigation systems) 
have been installed in compliance with the approved landscape plans. This letter shall be submitted prior 
to scheduling the Planning Final Inspection. 
85.
PLANNING FINAL INSPECTION – Upon completion of all construction and landscaping, the applicant shall 
request the Project Planner conduct a Planning Final inspection for verification of compliance with all 
outstanding conditions of approval. The applicant shall contact the Project Planner to schedule each 
inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance of the requested inspection. 
Building Division (PA)
86.
SOIL FINAL REPORT – The Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil investigation, or 
an equally qualified professional, shall issue a final report stating the completed pad, foundation, finish 
grading and associated site work substantially conform to the approved plans, specifications and 
investigations, to the satisfaction of the Building Official or his/her designee.

--- page 32 ---
Fire Department (PA)
87.
EMERGENCY RESPONDER RADIO COVERAGE – An Emergency Responder Radio Coverage system may be 
required for this project. Testing shall occur during construction due to circuit protection requirements 
that will affect building design. The applicant shall provide a third-party testing grid report to the Fire 
Department subject to the review and approval by the Fire Marshal or their designee prior to the Fire 
Final Inspection. 
Public Works Department (PA)
88.
RECORD DRAWINGS – The applicant shall submit record or as-built drawings, in PDF and AutoCAD formats, 
for all off-site improvements to the Department of Public Works. All public improvements shall be shown 
on the record drawings as constructed in the field. 
89.
RESTORATION OF ROADWAY – Due to the anticipated project’s truck traffic, the applicant shall grind and 
overlay with 2 inches of asphalt concrete of the roadways fronting the project site. If the street abutting 
the property has been classified as being in a failed condition or a Pavement Condition Index (PCI) of 50 
or below, the applicant will be required to reconstruct the street. Limits of the roadway repair shall be 
subject to the review and approval of the Director of Public Works or designee. 
90.
STORM WATER TREATMENT FACILITIES MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT – The applicant shall execute a 
maintenance agreement with the City’s Director of Public Works or designee as specified in SMMC 
Chapter 7.39 of the Stormwater Management and Discharge Control ordinance and the San Mateo 
Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program C.3 Program Technical Guidance. The agreement shall 
outline the continuous operation and maintenance (O&M) plan for the permanent storm water treatment 
facilities including irrigation and landscape maintenance of Green Infrastructure elements constructed in 
the public right-of-way and shall be recorded with the County Recorder’s Office. This agreement shall be 
executed prior to the first occupancy of the building.  
91.
TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) CHECKLIST – The property owner shall ensure 
compliance with the San Mateo County Congestion Management Program Land Use Implementation 
Policy (C/CAG TDM Policy). Specifically, the property owner shall ensure that the measures identified in 
the approved C/CAG TDM Checklist appended to this application are implemented over the life of the 
project, and that the property owner and tenants acknowledge the requirement to participate in the 
periodic monitoring and reporting requirements identified in the C/CAG TDM Policy. Accordingly, it is 
recommended that the property owner and/or developer clearly identify these TDM provisions and 
responsibilities in any sales and/or lease or sublease transactions. 
92.
OUTSTANDING CHARGES – Prior to occupancy, the applicant shall pay any outstanding charges due to the 
City that were applied to the project during the construction of the project in accordance with the 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule in effect for the Building Permit. 
CDD Arborist (PA)
93.
FINAL ARBORIST REPORT – The Project Arborist shall perform a final site inspection and submit a final 
arborist report to the Building Division. At minimum, the final arborist report shall confirm that the 
approved tree protection measures were implemented and shall assess the condition of Protected Tree(s). 
Any damage to existing Protected Tree(s) shall be subject to replacement and/or penalties in accordance 
with SMMC section 13.40.160 subject to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or their 
designee.

--- page 33 ---
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the project permitted by this planning 
application occupies the premises.
Planning Division (PA)
94.
APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE AT ALL TIMES – All physical improvements, uses, and 
operational requirements authorized by the approved planning application shall, at all times that the use 
permitted by this planning application occupies the premises, substantially conform with the approved 
planning application. This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and other 
items submitted as part of the approved planning application. Any proposed modifications to the 
approved planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the Community Development Director, 
or their designee, prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The Community Development 
Director, or their designee shall determine whether the proposed modifications substantially conform 
with the approved planning application, or whether a planning application modification is required to be 
submitted to permit the proposed modifications, as required by SMMC section 27.08.080. 
95.
COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS FOR DISCOVERY OF HUMAN REMAINS – The project shall comply with 
Health and Safety Code section 7050.5 and Public Resources Code section 5097.98, including immediate 
work stoppage upon discovery of human remains or burial grounds, and treatment in accordance 
with applicable law and in consultation with the affected California Native American tribe.  
96.
DOCUMENTATION OF TRIBAL CULTURAL RESOURCES – All treatment and documentation of tribal cultural 
resources shall be conducted in a culturally appropriate manner, as required by Public Resources Code 
section 21080.66. (AB130). 
97.
GENERAL PLAN COMPLIANCE – Unless otherwise approved through the entitlement process, the project 
shall be designed, constructed, and operated in a manner that is consistent with all applicable goals, 
policies, land use designations, and development standards of the City’s adopted General Plan 2040. 
98.
LABOR CODE – The provisions of Labor Code section 218.8 shall extend to the development proponent in 
addition to the direct contractor or subcontractor. The development proponent for this project 
is Prometheus Real Estate Group, Inc.   
99.
TRIBAL CULTURAL RESOURCES – Tribal cultural resources shall be avoided where feasible, in accordance 
with Public Resources Code section 21084.3(a). In furtherance of this requirement, where feasible, the 
project applicant shall provide deference to tribal preferences regarding access to spiritual, ceremonial, 
and burial sites, and incorporate tribal traditional knowledge in the protection and sustainable use of 
tribal cultural resources and landscapes.  
100.
TRIBAL ECOLOGICAL KNOWLEDGE – An application of tribal ecological knowledge into any habitat 
restoration efforts shall be undertaken by the project proponent as applicable to the specific 
environmental context and conditions of the project.  
101.
TRIBAL MONITOR – The project shall include tribal monitoring during all ground-disturbing activities, as 
follows:  
(A) One monitor as designated by the Muwekma Oholone Tribe shall be present during all ground-
disturbing activities and for all mechanical ground-disturbing/subsurface excavations that have 
the potential to affect native soils that could potentially contain Tribal cultural deposits within the 
entire construction project area, including off-site related improvements.  
(B) The tribal monitor shall comply with applicant’s site access and workplace safety requirements.

--- page 34 ---
(C) The applicant shall compensate the tribal monitor at a rate provided in Muwekma rate sheet, 
determined in good faith, that aligns with customary compensation for cultural resource 
monitoring, taking into account factors such as the scope and duration of the project, as well as 
the tribal monitor’s actual time spent on the project site during ground-disturbing activities.  
City Attorney (PA)
102.
INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City of San Mateo, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any costs, claims, or liabilities 
arising out of the approval of this planning application, including, without limitation, any award of 
attorney fees that might result from third party challenge. If applicant is required to defend the City, the 
City shall retain the right to select the counsel who shall defend the City. 
103.
PENALTY – In accordance with SMMC section 27.02.210-Violations of Planning Application Conditions, any 
violation of any of the conditions of approval is unlawful and will subject the applicant to the penalties set 
forth in SMMC Chapter 1.04-General Penalty, as well as any other available legal remedies. 
Police Department (PA)
104.
BUILDING SECURITY CODE COMPLIANCE – The building permit plans shall comply with the City’s Building 
Security Code (SMMC Chapter 23.54).  
105.
PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS FOR TALL BUILDINGS, ACCESS AND SECURITY – The applicant shall 
allow 24-hour, 7 day per week access to the dedicated public safety communications radio server rack 
and antenna(s) for maintenance purposes at all times that the use permitted by this planning application 
occupies the premises. If the City installs radio equipment, the applicant shall take reasonable measures 
to secure and safeguard City equipment from theft or vandalism. 
106.
SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS – Exterior security lighting in compliance with the Building Security Code 
“Exterior Security Lighting” (SMMC section 23.54.060) shall be provided and maintained at all times that 
the use permitted by this planning application occupies the premises. Site lighting shall comply with the 
requirement of an average illuminance of 1 foot-candle, a minimum illuminance of 0.3 foot-candle, and a 
uniformity ratio not to exceed 4:1 average to minimum. Light sources shall be capable of producing a 
“bright white” light with a color temperature between 3000K and 4000K and a color rendering index (CRI) 
of at least 65 unless otherwise approved. This lighting standard is applicable to all parking lots, driveways, 
circulation areas, aisles, passageways, recesses, and grounds contiguous to all buildings. The lighting 
system shall be so designed as to limit light spill beyond property lines and to shield the light source from 
view from off site. 
107.
VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS – The applicant shall install and operate for the life of the project a 
video surveillance system subject to the following requirements: 
(A) The information shall be maintained and retrievable for a minimum of 30 days. The captured video 
material shall be accessible to investigating police personnel through some form of facility 
management during regular business hours. The applicant shall provide proof of registration of 
the video surveillance camera system with the City through the City’s Neighborhood Eyes Security 
Team web form (https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/forms.aspx?FID=134). 
(B) Cameras shall be placed and maintained to view common areas of the property accessible to the 
public such as lobbies, parking lots, parking garages and entrances and exits to all parking garages, 
gates dividing different uses inside mixed-use parking garages, driveways, circulation areas, aisles, 
passageways, recesses, and grounds contiguous to all buildings. This condition is not intended to 
require Applicant to install pole mount cameras on the property, cameras to view these areas 
may be installed on the building facing out.

--- page 35 ---
(C) The cameras in this system shall be megapixel or better CCTV cameras that shall be capable of 
operating in all lighting conditions anticipated at project completion. Cameras viewing locations 
intended to allow routine vehicle passage onto the sites and/or garages shall additionally be 
capable of capturing the front and rear of all entering and exiting vehicles that use the sites and/or 
garages, and be of sufficient quality to identify the make and model of vehicles accessing the site, 
clearly read both front and rear license plates of vehicles, and clearly depict faces of occupants 
through the front windshield. 
108.
PHOTOMETRIC PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall 
include a photometric plan showing the installation of lighting fixtures and lighting levels to be reviewed 
and approved by the Chief of Police or their designee. The photometric plan shall include point-by-point 
lighting levels in foot-candles for the entire plot and ten feet beyond the project property lines. The point-
by-point photometric plan shall provide lighting levels on a grid not to exceed five feet by five feet across 
the entire site. Each point shall report the illuminance to the nearest 0.1 foot-candles. Photometric 
calculations including maximum foot-candles, average foot-candles, minimum foot-candles, average to 
minimum uniformity, and maximum to minimum uniformity shall be included on the plan submitted. 
Select specifications for fixtures selected shall be provided on the photometric plan sufficient to ensure 
compliance with the SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS. 
Public Works Department (PA)
109.
POST CONSTRUCTION BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – In accordance with the City’s Storm Water 
Management and Discharge Control Rules and Regulations, SMMC Chapter 7.39, and the San Mateo 
Countywide Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) by reference, the applicant shall:
(A) Owner/occupant shall inspect private stormwater treatment devices and GI features in the public 
right-of-way at least two (2) times per year and sweep parking lots immediately prior to and once 
during the storm season.
(B) The applicant shall pay a fee on a yearly basis for cost associated with, but not limited to, City 
inspection of the private stormwater treatment facilities, emergency maintenance needed to 
protect public health or watercourses, and facility replacement or repair in the event that the 
treatment facility is no longer able to meet performance standards or has deteriorated. The fee 
shall be based upon the City’s adopted Comprehensive Fee Schedule.
(C) Label new and redeveloped storm drain inlets with the phrase “No Dumping – Drains to Bay” 
plaques to alert the public to the destination of storm water and to prevent direct discharge of 
pollutants into the storm drain. Template ordering information is available from the Department 
of Public Works.
(D) All process equipment, oils fuels, solvents, coolants, fertilizers, pesticides, and similar chemical 
products, as well as petroleum based wastes, tallow, and grease planned for storage outdoors 
shall be stored in covered containers at all times. 
110.
TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) Checklist – Once implemented, the Transportation 
Demand Management Checklist shall be monitored and assessed annually for the occupied life of the 
development. The checklist shall be recorded with the County. The assessment of compliance with the 
Transportation Demand Management Checklist shall be submitted to Public Works by the end of every 
calendar year (December 31st).

--- page 36 ---


--- page 37 ---
EXHIBIT B
SUMMARY OF PROJECT WAIVERS
The waivers to the following standards have been identified, to be applied pursuant to State Density Bonus Law:
1)
Floor Area and a Floor Area Ratio – For the E2-1.5 portion of the site, per SMMC section 27.48.060(c), 
the FAR limit is 1.5. The Project would result in an FAR of 3.9. 
2)
Floor Area and a Floor Area Ratio – For the C3-2 portion of the site, per SMMC section 27.34.050(b), the 
FAR limit is 2.0. The Project would result in an FAR of 3.9.
3)
Residential Density – The San Mateo General Plan 2040 Land Use Designation for this site is Residential 
Medium II, and the maximum base density is 99 dwellings per acre. For this 1.22-acre site, the maximum 
density is 120.7 dwellings. The proposed Project would include 181 dwelling units, exceeding the 
maximum density. However, the Project would reserve 15% of the base density (19 dwellings, or 15.7% 
of the General Plan maximum) for Very-Low Income (VLI) households. Per Government Code section 
65915(f)(2), a project with at least 15% of the dwellings reserved for VLI households is eligible for a density 
bonus of 50% of the base density. The 50% bonus applied to this site would increase the maximum 
allowable density to 182 dwellings (the General Plan density for this site is 120.7dwellings, and per 
Government Code section 65915(q), the density is rounded up to 121 dwellings. The 50% bonus, when 
applied to this density, would allow 181.5 dwellings, and per Government Code section 65915(q), the total 
number of dwellings allowed for this site is rounded up to 182 dwellings). While this Project would be 
eligible for a density increase to accommodate up to 182 dwellings, it proposes only 181.
4)
Yards – For the E2-1.5 portion of the site, per SMMC section 27.48.090, the yard along each street frontage 
must be at least 7.5 feet. The Project would not provide a yard along North San Mateo Drive or Villa 
Terrace.
5)
Buffers-Rear yard – For the C3-2 portion of the site, per SMMC sections 27.34.060, 27.30.060(a) & 
27.22.080(c), the minimum yard is 25 feet along the portion of the site that abuts the R-zoned property. 
The Project would provide a 2-foot yard abutting the R-zoned property.
6)
Buffer-Landscape – For the E2-1.5 portion of the site, per SMMC section 27.48.100, a landscape buffer of 
at least one-half the height of the proposed building (or approx. 38 feet) must be provided along Villa 
Terrace and for the portion of the site that abuts the R-zoned property. The Project would not provide a 
landscape buffer along Villa Terrace and would provide a 2-foot buffer, with landscaping to be provided 
via hanging vines, abutting the adjacent R-zoned property. 
7)
Parcel Coverage-Open Space – For the E2-1.5 portion of the site, per SMMC section 27.48.065, at-grade 
open space must be at least 20% of the parcel area. The Project would not provide at-grade open space.
8)
Blank Walls – Per ODS section 4.1.1, “Blank walls shall be limited to a maximum of twenty (20) feet in 
length on all stories”. The ground-floor wall facing the residential district to the southwest would be over 
10 feet in height (13 feet to 21 feet is proposed), the horizontal length would be greater than 20 feet (326 
linear feet is proposed), and the ground-floor wall would not include a transparent window or door.

--- page 38 ---
ATTACHMENT 2 – LOCATION MAP
PA-2025-031
715/723 N San Mateo Drive – Multifamily Residential Development
ADDRESSES: 
715, 723 & 733 North San Mateo Drive & 247 Villa Terrace
APNs: 
032-151-130, 032-151-300, 032-151-320 & 032-151-160

--- page 39 ---
ADDRESS:
            715 N SAN MATEO DRIVE,
  SAN MATEO, CA 94401
ZONING:* 
  E2-1.5, C3-2
INTERSECTION:
SAN MATEO DRIVE
B/T VILLA TERRACE & STATE STREET
APPLICABLE CODES:
2022 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE
2022 CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE
2022 CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE
2022 CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE
2022 CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE
2022 CALIFORNIA GREEN CODE
2022 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE
2022 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE
2022 CITY OF SAN MATEO REACH CODES
FEDERAL FAIR HOUSING ACT
APN #s:
NORTH
LOT AREA:
715 N SAN MATEO DR
VICINITY MAP
BUILDING DATA
PROJECT DIRECTORY
BUILDING AREA DATA
LOT SIZE:
154' - 4" x 334' - 4"
53,141+/- SF
RESIDENTIAL UNIT DATA
SITE AND ZONING DATA
CONSTRUCTION TYPE:
IIIA / IA
BUILDING AREA:
BUILDING HEIGHT:
STORIES:
6 (5 FLOORS TYPE IIIA OVER IA PODIUM)
BASEMENTS:
1
OCCUPANCY TYPE:
R-2, S-2, U
FIRE PROTECTION:
NFPA 13 / 13R
CONSTRUCTION TYPE:
VB
BUILDING AREA:
BUILDING HEIGHT:
VARIES
OCCUPANCY TYPE:
R-3, B
EXISTING BUILDING DATA
STORIES:
1, 2
PERMITTED FAR:
PER 2040 GENERAL PLAN
MAX PERMITTED FAR:
PERMITTED HEIGHT:
PROPOSED FAR:
LOT AREA IN ACRES:
1.220+/- AC
032-151-130, 032-151-300
032-151-160, 032-151-320
PER 2040 GENERAL PLAN
PER 2040 GENERAL PLAN
PROPOSED HEIGHT:
ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALLS:
    5
TANDEM PARKING SPACES:
    4
COMPACT STALLS:
  68
STANDARD STALLS:
103
TOTAL CAR PARKING SPACES:
180
(SEE SHEETS PK 2.0B AND PK 2.01 FOR RESIDENTIAL PARKING INFO)
MOTORCYCLE PARKING: TBD
BICYCLE PARKING - 196 SPACES IN SECURE BIKE ROOM ON 1ST FLOOR
3,000 SF APRX
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW 6-STORY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 
WITH BASEMENT. 181 UNITS ON FLOORS 1-6 WITH AMENITY 
SPACES AND SHARED OUTDOOR SPACE FOR RESIDENTIAL USE 
AT 2ND FLOOR COURT YARD AND AT 6TH FLOOR.  PARKING FOR 
APPROXIMATELY 186 VEHICLES AT BASEMENT AND 1ST FLOOR 
LEVELS.
THE PROJECT IS 100% PRIVATELY FUNDED.
THE PROJECT WILL COMPLY WITH THE CITY OF SAN MATEO'S 
PUBLIC ART REQUIREMENT BY PAYING AN IN-LIEU FEE.
STATE DENSITY DATA
THE PROJECT IS COMPLIANT UNDER THE CALIFORNIA STATE 
DENSITY BONUS PROGRAM. SEE SUBMITTED APPLICATION.
PARKING DATA
SHEET INDEX
LOT COVERAGE:
76' - 0"
75' - 11-1/2"
75' - 11-1/2"
PROPOSED EXISTING UNITS TO REMAIN:
0
PROPOSED EXISTING UNITS REMOVED:
2 (R-3), 2 (B)
LAND USE: 
  RESIDENTIAL MEDIUM II
LANDSCAPE AND OUTDOOR LIVING
TOTAL LANDSCAPE AREA:
12,859 SF 
TOTAL OUTDOOR LIVING AREA:
(SEE AREA PLANS FOR ANALYSIS)
*SITE IS SPLIT ZONED - PARCEL 032-151-130 & 032-151-300 ARE 
WITHIN THE C3-2 ZONING DISTRICT, PARCELS 032-151-160 & 
032-151-320 ARE WITHIN THE E2-1.5 ZONING DISTRICT. 
BOTH E2-1.5 & C3-2 ZONING REGULATIONS APPLY TO THE SITE.
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
02/09/2026
12" = 1'-0"
G 0.00
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
TITLE PAGE
AREAS BY FLOOR
GROSS
RESIDENTIAL
AMENITY
UTILITY
PARKING
CIRCULATION
DRY UTILITY
GIACALONE DESIGN SERVICES
5820 STONERIDGE MALL RD, SUITE 345, PLEASANTON, CA 94588
ARNOLD SAENZ JR
(925) 989-4382
ARNOLDS@DRYUTILITYDESIGN.COM
PARKING
WATRY DESIGN, INC
2099 GATEWAY PL #550, SAN JOSE, CA 95110
TAYLOR KIM
(833) 917-7275 ext 2741
TKIM@WATRYDESIGN.COM
TRASH MANAGEMENT
AMERICAN TRASH MANAGEMENT
1900 POWELL ST, SUITE 220, EMERYVILLE, CA 94608
DAISY URBINA
(971) 261-9979
DAISYURBINA@TRASHMANAGE.COM
LANDSCAPE
KNOT STUDIO
350 SE MILL ST, SUITE 02, PORTLAND, OR 97214
JULIA WARDEN
(971) 865-5338
JWARDEN@KNOTSTUDIO.COM
CIVIL
BKF ENGINEERS
1646 N CALIFORNIA BLVD, SUITE 400, WALNUT CREEK, CA 94596
KYLE CHRISTY
(317) 752-3176
KCHRISTY@BKF.COM
SURVEY
DEBOLT CIVIL ENGINEERING
480 SAN RAMON VALLEY BLVD, #L DANVILLE, CA 94526
EASTON C McALLISTER
(925) 837-3780
ARCHITECTURE
WINDER GIBSON ARCHITECTS
1898 MISSION ST, SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94103
GEOFF GIBSON
(415) 577-5310
GIBSON@ARCHSF.COM
CLIENT
PROMETHEUS REAL ESTATE GROUP
1 NORTH B STREET, SUITE 400, SAN MATEO CA 94401
JONATHAN STONE
(650) 931-3448
JSTONE@PROMETHEUSREG.COM
FIRM
ADDRESS
CONTACT
PHONE
EMAIL
BASEMENT
50012 SF
1ST FLOOR
49140 SF
2ND FLOOR
31272 SF
3RD FLOOR
32928 SF
4TH FLOOR
32934 SF
5TH FLOOR
32929 SF
6TH FLOOR
28811 SF
TOTALS
258025 SF
11537 SF
26153 SF
29954 SF
29955 SF
29961 SF
24855 SF
152415 SF
5283 SF
1983 SF
1478 SF
3952 SF
47446 SF
25002 SF
1088 SF
181 SF
182 SF
180 SF
180 SF
205 SF
8101 SF
6358 SF
72448 SF
18703 SF
835 SF
1ST FLOOR
14
8%
2ND FLOOR
31
17%
3RD FLOOR
35
19%
4TH FLOOR
35
19%
5TH FLOOR
35
19%
6TH FLOOR
31
17%
TOTALS
181
100%
UNIT MIX BY FLOOR
ALL UNITS
% BY FLOOR
STUDIOS
URBAN 1 BD
1 BEDROOM
2 BEDROOM
3 BEDROOM
1
1
1
1
1
4
9
1
1
1
1
3
15
15
15
15
16
79
2
8
11
11
11
9
52
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TYPE BREAKDOWN
UNIT TYPE
COUNT
% TYPE
AREA ALLOCATED
% AREA
AVG SF
MIN .. MAX SF
BEDROOMS
STUDIO
9
5.0%
5267 SF
3%
585 SF
533  ...  607
9
URBAN 1 BED
37
20.4%
25038 SF
16%
677 SF
614  ...  838
37
1 BEDROOM
79
43.6%
60548 SF
40%
766 SF
582  ...  954
79
2 BEDROOM
52
28.7%
55587 SF
36%
1069 SF
814  ...  1427
104
3 BEDROOM
4
2.2%
5975 SF
4%
1494 SF
1491  ...  1500
12
TOTALS
181
100.0%
152415 SF
100%
241
258,025 SF
3366 SF
2955 SF
2792 SF
2799 SF
2788 SF
2916 SF
3.86%
8
6
7
7
7
2
37
G 0.00
TITLE PAGE
G 0.01
(E) SITE PLAN AND PHOTOS
G 0.02
(N) SITE PLAN OVER SATELLITE IMAGE
G 0.03
SHADOW STUDIES - OVERALL
G 0.04
SHADOW STUDIES - 2ND FLOOR OPEN SPACE
G 0.05
SHADOW STUDIES - 6TH FLOOR OPEN SPACE
G 0.06
MATERIAL PALETTE
G 0.07
MATERIAL PALETTE
G 0.08
ODS DIAGRAMS
G 0.09
ODS DIAGRAMS
G 0.10
BMR UNIT LOCATIONS
11
T-1
PRELIMINARY BOUNDARY AND TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY
MAP
TS-1
ALTA / NSPS LAND TITLE SURVEY
TS-2
ALTA / NSPS LAND TITLE SURVEY
3
C 1.0
TITLE SHEET
C 2.0
EXISTING CONDITIONS
C 3.0
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
C 4.0
PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN
C 5.0
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN
C 6.0
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN
C 7.0
PRELIMINARY STORMWATER CONTROL PLAN
7
1 OF 2
FIRE TRUCK TURNING EXHIBIT
2 OF 2
COMMERCIAL TRUCK TURNING EXHIBIT
2
L-101A
LANDSCAPE PLAN LEVEL 1A
L-101B
LANDSCAPE PLAN LEVEL 1B
L-102
LANDSCAPE PLAN LEVEL 2
L-106
LANDSCAPE PLAN LEVEL 6
L-112
PARKCREDIT EXHIBIT LEVEL 2
L-116
PARKCREDIT EXHIBIT LEVEL 6
L-151A
PLANTING PLAN LEVEL 1A
L-151B
PLANTING PLAN LEVEL 1B
L-152
PLANTING PLAN LEVEL 2
L-156
PLANTING PLAN LEVEL 6
L-157
PLANT PALETTE
L-158
PLANT PALETTE
L-159
WUCOLS REQUIREMENTS
L-301
SITE SECTIONS 1
14
A 0.00
CODE ANALYSIS
A 0.01
FAR AND LOT COVERAGE
A 0.02
AREA PLANS
A 0.03
OCCUPANCY AND EGRESS ANALYSIS
A 0.04
EGRESS ANALYSIS STAIR SECTIONS
A 0.05
FIRE SEPARATION DIAGRAMS
A 0.06
AREA OF EXTERIOR WALL OPENINGS BASED ON FSD
A 0.07
AREA OF EXTERIOR WALL OPENINGS BASED ON FSD
A 0.08
PLUMBING ANALYSIS
A 0.09
BUILDING A-ALLOWABLE AREA ANALYSIS
A 0.10
BUILDING B-ALLOWABLE AREA ANALYSIS
A 0.11
BUILDING C-ALLOWABLE AREA ANALYSIS
A 2.00
SITE PLAN
A 2.0B
BASEMENT FLOOR PLAN
A 2.01
1ST FLOOR PLAN
A 2.02
2ND FLOOR PLAN
A 2.03
3RD FLOOR PLAN
A 2.04
4TH FLOOR PLAN
A 2.05
5TH FLOOR PLAN
A 2.06
6TH FLOOR PLAN
A 2.07
ROOF PLAN
A 3.00
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
A 3.01
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
A 3.02
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
A 3.50
LONGITUDINAL SECTIONS
A 3.60
TRANSVERSE SECTIONS
A 6.40
UNIT TYPES - ALL
A 6.50
UNIT TYPES S AND UA
A 6.51
UNIT TYPES UB AND UC
A 6.52
UNIT TYPES 1A1 AND 1A2
A 6.53
UNIT TYPES 1A3 AND 1B1
A 6.54
UNIT TYPES 1C1 AND 1C2
A 6.55
UNIT TYPES 1C3 AND 1C4
A 6.56
UNIT TYPES 2A1 AND 2A2
A 6.57
UNIT TYPES 2A3 AND 2B1
A 6.58
UNIT TYPES 2B2 AND 2B3
A 6.59
UNIT TYPES 2C1 AND 2C2
A 6.60
UNIT TYPES 2C3 AND 2C4
A 6.61
UNIT TYPES 2D AND 2E
A 6.62
UNIT TYPES 2F AND 2G
A 6.63
UNIT TYPES 2H AND 3A
A 6.B1
BATH TYPES 1 AND 2
A 6.K1
KITCHEN TYPES 1 AND 2
A 8.00
EXTERIOR DOOR AND WINDOW KEY PLANS
A 8.01
EXTERIOR WINDOW SCHEDULE
A 8.02
EXTERIOR DOOR SCHEDULE
A 8.03
EXTERIOR STOREFRONT SCHEDULE
A 9.00
AXONOMETRIC VIEWS
A 9.01
PROJECT VISUALIZATION
A 9.02
PROJECT VISUALIZATION
A 9.03
PROJECT VISUALIZATION
A 9.04
PROJECT VISUALIZATION
A 9.05
PROJECT VISUALIZATION
A 9.06
PROJECT VISUALIZATION
A 9.07
LANDSCAPE VISUALIZATION
A 9.08
LANDSCAPE VISUALIZATION
56
PK 2.00B
BASEMENT LEVEL PARKING
PK 2.01
1ST LEVEL PARKING
2
BK 2.00
BIKE PARKING INFORMATION
1
TR0.1
1ST FLOOR PLAN
TR0.2
2ND FLOOR PLAN
TR1.0
TRASH COLLECTION AREA
TR 2.0
CHUTE DETAILS
4
E 2.00
EXTERIOR LIGHTING SPECIFICATIONS
E 2.01
EXTERIOR LIGHTING PLANS
E 2.02
EXTERIOR LIGHTING PLANS
E 2.03A
LANDSCAPE LIGHTING PLAN LEVEL 1A
E 2.03B
LANDSCAPE LIGHTING PLAN LEVEL 1B
E 2.04
LANDSCAPE LIGHTING PLAN LEVEL 2
E 2.05
LANDSCAPE LIGHTING PLAN LEVEL 6
7
TOTAL NUMBER OF SHEETS: 107
4
92.47%
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TYPE BREAKDOWN
UNIT TYPE
COUNT
% TYPE
AREA ALLOCATED
% AREA
AVG SF
MIN .. MAX SF
BEDROOMS
STUDIO
9
5.0%
5267 SF
3%
585 SF
533  ...  607
9
URBAN 1 BED
37
20.4%
25038 SF
16%
677 SF
614  ...  838
37
1 BEDROOM
79
43.6%
60548 SF
40%
766 SF
582  ...  954
79
2 BEDROOM
52
28.7%
55587 SF
36%
1069 SF
814  ...  1427
104
3 BEDROOM
4
2.2%
5975 SF
4%
1494 SF
1491  ...  1500
12
TOTALS
181
100.0%
152415 SF
100%
241
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TYPE BREAKDOWN
UNIT TYPE
COUNT
% TYPE
AREA ALLOCATED
% AREA
AVG SF
MIN .. MAX SF
BEDROOMS
STUDIO
9
5.0%
5267 SF
3%
585 SF
533  ...  607
9
URBAN 1 BED
37
20.4%
25038 SF
16%
677 SF
614  ...  838
37
1 BEDROOM
79
43.6%
60548 SF
40%
766 SF
582  ...  954
79
2 BEDROOM
52
28.7%
55587 SF
36%
1069 SF
814  ...  1427
104
3 BEDROOM
4
2.2%
5975 SF
4%
1494 SF
1491  ...  1500
12
TOTALS
181
100.0%
152415 SF
100%
241
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TYPE BREAKDOWN
UNIT TYPE
COUNT
% TYPE
AREA ALLOCATED
% AREA
AVG SF
MIN .. MAX SF
BEDROOMS
STUDIO
9
5.0%
5267 SF
3%
585 SF
533  ...  607
9
URBAN 1 BED
37
20.4%
25038 SF
16%
677 SF
614  ...  838
37
1 BEDROOM
79
43.6%
60548 SF
40%
766 SF
582  ...  954
79
2 BEDROOM
52
28.7%
55587 SF
36%
1069 SF
814  ...  1427
104
3 BEDROOM
4
2.2%
5975 SF
4%
1494 SF
1491  ...  1500
12
TOTALS
181
100.0%
152415 SF
100%
241
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TYPE BREAKDOWN
UNIT TYPE
COUNT
% TYPE
AREA ALLOCATED
% AREA
AVG SF
MIN .. MAX SF
BEDROOMS
STUDIO
9
5.0%
5267 SF
3%
585 SF
533  ...  607
9
URBAN 1 BED
37
20.4%
25038 SF
16%
677 SF
614  ...  838
37
1 BEDROOM
79
43.6%
60548 SF
40%
766 SF
582  ...  954
79
2 BEDROOM
52
28.7%
55587 SF
36%
1069 SF
814  ...  1427
104
3 BEDROOM
4
2.2%
5975 SF
4%
1494 SF
1491  ...  1500
12
TOTALS
181
100.0%
152415 SF
100%
241
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TYPE BREAKDOWN
UNIT TYPE
COUNT
% TYPE
AREA ALLOCATED
% AREA
AVG SF
MIN .. MAX SF
BEDROOMS
STUDIO
9
5.0%
5267 SF
3%
585 SF
533  ...  607
9
URBAN 1 BED
37
20.4%
25038 SF
16%
677 SF
614  ...  838
37
1 BEDROOM
79
43.6%
60548 SF
40%
766 SF
582  ...  954
79
2 BEDROOM
52
28.7%
55587 SF
36%
1069 SF
814  ...  1427
104
3 BEDROOM
4
2.2%
5975 SF
4%
1494 SF
1491  ...  1500
12
TOTALS
181
100.0%
152415 SF
100%
241
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TYPE BREAKDOWN
UNIT TYPE
COUNT
% TYPE
AREA ALLOCATED
% AREA
AVG SF
MIN .. MAX SF
BEDROOMS
STUDIO
9
5.0%
5267 SF
3%
585 SF
533  ...  607
9
URBAN 1 BED
37
20.4%
25038 SF
16%
677 SF
614  ...  838
37
1 BEDROOM
79
43.6%
60548 SF
40%
766 SF
582  ...  954
79
2 BEDROOM
52
28.7%
55587 SF
36%
1069 SF
814  ...  1427
104
3 BEDROOM
4
2.2%
5975 SF
4%
1494 SF
1491  ...  1500
12
TOTALS
181
100.0%
152415 SF
100%
241
27,583 SF

--- page 40 ---
SAN MATEO DRIVE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE STREET
CORNER OF SAN MATEO DRIVE & STATE STREET
VILLA TERRACE
CORNER OF SAN MATEO DRIVE & VILLA TERRACE
N SAN MATEO DR
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
PL
PL
PL
PL
PL
PL
(E) SHORT-TERM RENTAL BUILDING
TO BE REMOVED
(E) VACANT PARKING LOT
COMMERCIAL
COMMERCIAL
2-UNIT RESIDENTIAL
RESIDENTIAL
OVERALL SITE WIDTH
339' - 0"
150' - 0"
184' - 4"
334' - 4"
146' - 8"
15' - 0"
OVERALL SITE DEPTH
165' - 1"
149' - 6"
166' - 3"
PARCEL A
PARCEL B
PL
PL
PL
PARCEL A3
PARCEL A2
PARCEL A1
(E) COMMERCIAL BUILDING
TO BE REMOVED
(E) COMMERCIAL BUILDING
TO BE REMOVED
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
G 0.01
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
(E) SITE PLAN AND PHOTOS
1/16" = 1'-0"
(E) SITE PLAN

--- page 41 ---
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
G 0.02
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
(N) SITE PLAN OVER
SATELLITE IMAGE
1/64" = 1'-0"
SITE PLAN OF 715 N SAN MATEO DR. OVER SATELLITE IMAGE
N SAN MATEO DR
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
HIGHLAND AVE
NORTH

--- page 42 ---
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025G 0.03
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
SHADOW STUDIES - OVERALL
1
WINTER SOLSTICE - 9AM
2
WINTER SOLSTICE - 11AM
3
WINTER SOLSTICE - 1PM
4
WINTER SOLSTICE - 3PM
5
WINTER SOLSTICE - 5PM
6
SPRING/FALL EQUINOX - 9AM
7
SPRING/FALL EQUINOX - 11AM
8
SPRING/FALL EQUINOX - 1PM
9
SPRING/FALL EQUINOX - 3PM
10 SPRING/FALL EQUINOX - 5PM
11 SUMMER SOLSTICE - 9AM
12 SUMMER SOLSTICE - 11AM
13 SUMMER SOLSTICE - 1PM
14 SUMMER SOLSTICE - 3PM
15 SUMMER SOLSTICE - 5PM

--- page 43 ---
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025G 0.04
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
SHADOW STUDIES - 2ND
FLOOR OPEN SPACE
SUMMER SOLSTICE  -  11AM - COURTYARD
SUMMER SOLSTICE (JUNE 20) 
11AM - 5PM
SUN/SHADE AT 2ND FLOOR
SPRING/FALL EQUINOX (MAR 20)/SEPTEMBER EQUINOX (SEP 22)
9AM - 5PM
SUN/SHADE AT 2ND FLOOR
SUMMER SOLSTICE -  12PM - COURTYARD
SUMMER SOLSTICE -  1PM - COURTYARD
SUMMER SOLSTICE -  2PM - COURTYARD
SUMMER SOLSTICE -  3PM - COURTYARD
SUMMER SOLSTICE -  4PM - COURTYARD
SUMMER SOLSTICE -  5PM - COURTYARD
MAR/SEP EQUINOX -  10AM - COURTYARD
MAR/SEP EQUINOX -  11AM - COURTYARD
MAR/SEP EQUINOX -  12PM - COURTYARD
MAR/SEP EQUINOX -  1PM - COURTYARD
MAR/SEP EQUINOX -  2PM - COURTYARD
MAR/SEP EQUINOX -  3PM - COURTYARD
MAR/SEP EQUINOX -  4PM - COURTYARD
MAR/SEP EQUINOX -  5PM - COURTYARD
MAR/SEP EQUINOX -  9AM - COURTYARD
SWIMMING POOL AREA 
6% SHADED
2ND FLOOR TERRACE  
94% SHADED
SWIMMING POOL AREA 
3% SHADED
2ND FLOOR TERRACE  
100% SHADED
SWIMMING POOL AREA 
4% SHADED
2ND FLOOR TERRACE  
100% SHADED
LEGEND
USABLE OUTDOOR SPACE
23% OF THE TOTAL USABLE 
OUTDOOR SPACE AREA IS UNSHADED 
BETWEEN 12PM & 2PM AT THE 
SPRING/FALL EQUINOX. (SEE G 0.05)

--- page 44 ---
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025G 0.05
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
SHADOW STUDIES - 6TH
FLOOR OPEN SPACE
SUMMER SOLSTICE -  11AM
SUMMER SOLSTICE (JUNE 20) 
11AM - 5PM
SUN/SHADE AT 6TH FLOOR 
SPRING/FALLEQUINOX (MAR 20)/SEPTEMBER EQUINOX (SEP 22)
9AM - 5PM
SUN/SHADE AT 6TH FLOOR 
SUMMER SOLSTICE -  12PM
SUMMER SOLSTICE -  1PM
SUMMER SOLSTICE -  2PM
SUMMER SOLSTICE -  3PM
SUMMER SOLSTICE -  4PM
SUMMER SOLSTICE -  5PM
MAR/SEP EQUINOX -  10AM
MAR/SEP EQUINOX -  11AM
MAR/SEP EQUINOX -  12PM
MAR/SEP EQUINOX -  1PM
MAR/SEP EQUINOX -  2PM
MAR/SEP EQUINOX -  3PM
MAR/SEP EQUINOX -  4PM
MAR/SEP EQUINOX -  5PM
MAR/SEP EQUINOX -  9AM
6TH FLOOR SKY LOUNGE 
32% SHADED
6TH FLOOR TERRACE 
26% SHADED
6TH FLOOR SKY LOUNGE 
31% SHADED
6TH FLOOR TERRACE 
44% SHADED
6TH FLOOR SKY LOUNGE 
26% SHADED
6TH FLOOR TERRACE 
52% SHADED
SWIMMING POOL AREA 
6% SHADED
2ND FLOOR TERRACE
(SEE G 0.04)  
94% SHADED
SWIMMING POOL AREA 
3% SHADED
2ND FLOOR TERRACE
(SEE G 0.04)  
100% SHADED
SWIMMING POOL AREA 
4% SHADED
2ND FLOOR TERRACE
(SEE G0.04)  
100% SHADED
LEGEND
USABLE OUTDOOR SPACE
23% OF THE TOTAL USABLE 
OUTDOOR SPACE AREA IS UNSHADED 
BETWEEN 12PM & 2PM AT THE 
SPRING/FALL EQUINOX.

--- page 45 ---
7
3
1
8
10
8
2
5
2
7
6
3
2
1
3
6
8
8
5
2
6
1
10
STUCCO
1
THIN BRICK CLADDING
2
WOOD APPEARANCE CLADDING
3
4
STUCCO
6
THIN BRICK CLADDING
7
GALVANIZED & PAINTED STEEL 
RAILINGS
8
BIRD-SAFE GLASS 
RAILING/WINDSCREEN
9
5
VINYL RESIDENTIAL WINDOW & 
DOOR SYSTEMS
10
COMMERCIAL GARAGE DOORS
COMMERCIAL STOREFRONT 
SYSTEMS
7
3
5
8
1
6
8
10
4
2
8
6
10
3
1
6
2
9
9
4
1
2
8
5
7
9
3
6
6
7
6
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
G 0.06
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
MATERIAL PALETTE
3/64" = 1'-0"
EAST ELEVATION - MATERIAL PALETTE
3/64" = 1'-0"
EAST ELEVATION - COURTYARD - MATERIAL PALETTE
3/64" = 1'-0"
SOUTH ELEVATION - MATERIAL PALETTE
3/64" = 1'-0"
NORTH ELEVATION - MATERIAL PALETTE
ALL MATERIALS AND FINISHES ARE SUBJECT TO SUBSTITUTION WITH 
SIMILAR DUE TO COST AND AVAILABILITY AT THE TIME OF CONSTRUCTION.

--- page 46 ---
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025G 0.07
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
MATERIAL PALETTE
WOOD APPEARANCE CLADDING
MILLBOARD - SHADOW LINE+ - GOLDEN OAK
3
THIN BRICK CLADDING
H.C. MUDDOX - TULE FOG, WIRE CUT
2
THIN BRICK CLADDING
H.C. MUDDOX - EBONY, WIRE CUT
7
STUCCO
TO MATCH: SHERWIN WILLIAMS - SHOJI WHITE, 
SW 7042 
1
STUCCO
TO MATCH: SHERWIN WILLIAMS -
GAUNTLET GRAY, SW 7019
6
PAINTED STEEL RAILINGS 
TO MATCH: SHERWIN WILLIAMS - TRICORN 
BLACK, SW 6258
5
8
10
ALL MATERIALS AND FINISHES ARE SUBJECT TO SUBSTITUTION WITH 
SIMILAR DUE TO COST AND AVAILABILITY AT THE TIME OF CONSTRUCTION.
RESIDENTIAL WINDOW/DOOR SYSTEMS
VPI QUALITY WINDOWS - BLACK
COMMERCIAL STOREFRONT SYSTEMS
VPI QUALITY WINDOWS - BLACK

--- page 47 ---
CORNICE
METAL AWNING 
CORNICE
OVERHANG 
RECESSED ROOM
5 UNITS
RECESSED ROOM
5 UNITS
RECESSED ROOM
5 UNITS
RECESSED ROOM
5 UNITS
RECESSED ROOM
5 UNITS
RECESSED ROOMS
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOMS
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOMS
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
5 UNITS
RECESSED ROOM
5 UNITS
2' - 0" TYP.
CORNICE
OVERHANG 
N SAN MATEO 
(EAST) FACADE
80 TOTAL UNITS 
48 UNITS WITH 
RECESSED 
ROOM/ROOMS 
60% OF UNITS WITH 
RECESSED 
ROOM/ROOMS
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
CORNICE
OVERHANG
RECESSED ROOM
5 UNITS
RECESSED ROOMS
3 UNITS
RECESSED ROOMS
1 UNIT
STATE ST 
(NORTH) FACADE
18 TOTAL UNITS 
9 UNITS WITH 
RECESSED 
ROOM/ROOM 
50% OF UNITS WITH 
RECESSED 
ROOM/ROOMS
CORNICE
OVERHANG
AWNING   
VILLA TERRACE
(SOUTH) FACADE
13 TOTAL UNITS 
5 UNITS WITH 
RECESSED 
ROOM/ROOMS 
38.5% OF UNITS WITH 
RECESSED 
ROOM/ROOMS
RECESSED ROOMS
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOMS
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
4.1.2 ARTICULATION DETAILS
CITY OF SAN MATEO   |   OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS
SUMMARY - % OF UNITS WITH RECESSED ROOMS
N SAN MATEO (EAST) FACADE
60%  /  48 UNITS
VILLA TERRACE (SOUTH) FACADE
38.5%   /  5 UNITS
STATE ST (NORTH) FACADE
50%   /  9 UNITS
LEGEND
A.  ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTSIONS NOTED IN PURPLE 
RECESSED ROOM
UNIT DEMISING WALL
E. RECESSED ROOMS NOTED IN ELEVATION AND TYP. 
FLOOR PLANS:
5' - 2" RECESS TYP.
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
2' - 0"
4' - 8"
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
RECESSED  
KITCHEN/LIVING/DINING
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
4' - 8"
3' - 11"
6' - 0" RECESS TYP.
RECESSED 
LIVING ROOM
RECESSED 
LIVING ROOM
RECESSED 
LIVING ROOM
RECESSED 
LIVING ROOM
RECESSED 
LIVING ROOM
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
RECESSED 
LIVING ROOM
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
RECESSED 
LIVING ROOM
RECESSED 
LIVING ROOM
1' - 9"
RECESSED  
KITCHEN/LIVING/
DINING
RECESSED  
KITCHEN/LIVING/
DINING
METAL AWNING ABOVE
7' - 10"
OVERHANG ABOVE
OVERHANG ABOVE
4' - 10"
4.1.3 BUILDING MATERIALS 
& COLOR
CITY OF SAN MATEO   |   OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS
LEGEND
CREAM STUCCO
GREY STUCCO
CREAM THIN BRICK CLADDING
GREY THIN BRICK CLADDING
WOOD APPEARANCE CLADDING
REVEAL AT MATERIAL 
CHANGE TYP.
BANDING AT 
MATERIAL CHANGE
PLANE CHANGE AT 
MATERIAL CHANGE 
TYP.
CREAM STUCCO 
42% OF EAST FACADE
GREY STUCCO 
17% OF EAST FACADE
WOOD-LOOK SIDING
10% OF EAST FACADE
CREAM BRICK
14% OF EAST FACADE
GREY BRICK
17% OF EAST FACADE
PLANE CHANGE AT 
MATERIAL CHANGE, 
TYP. 
TYP.
3' - 6"
BLACK PAINTED STEEL 
RAILINGS, TYP.
SLATS TO BE AT LEAST 
50% VISUALLY OPEN
BLACK PAINTED STEEL RAILINGS, TYP.
SLATS TO BE AT LEAST 50% VISUALLY OPEN
TYP.
3' - 6"
REVEAL AT MATERIAL 
CHANGE TYP.
BANDING AT 
MATERIAL CHANGE
PLANE CHANGE AT 
MATERIAL CHANGE
CREAM STUCCO 
44% OF NORTH FACADE
GREY STUCCO 
21% OF NORTH FACADE
CREAM BRICK
21% OF NORTH FACADE
GREY BRICK
14% OF NORTH FACADE
PLANE CHANGE AT 
MATERIAL CHANGE 
REVEAL AT MATERIAL 
CHANGE TYP.
BANDING AT 
MATERIAL CHANGE
PLANE CHANGE AT 
MATERIAL CHANGE 
TYP.
CREAM STUCCO 
42% OF SOUTH FACADE
GREY STUCCO 
24% OF SOUTH FACADE
WOOD-LOOK SIDING
10% OF SOUTH FACADE
CREAM BRICK
24% OF SOUTH FACADE
4.1.6 MASSING BREAKS -
MID-RISE BUILDINGS
CITY OF SAN MATEO   |   OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS
LEGEND
3.  SPECIAL TREATMENTS AT BUILDING CORNER NOTED IN 
PURPLE 
N SAN MATEO DR
VILLA TERRACE
MATERIAL 
CHANGE
MATERIAL 
CHANGE
RECESS
BANDING 
DETAIL
BANDING 
DETAIL
RECESSED 
CORNER 
BALCONIES
STATE ST
N SAN MATEO DR
MATERIAL 
CHANGE
RECESS
MATERIAL 
CHANGE
BANDING 
DETAIL
RECESSED 
CORNER 
BALCONIES
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
G 0.08
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
ODS DIAGRAMS
1" = 20'-0"
N SAN MATEO (EAST) ELEVATION - RECESSED ROOMS
1" = 20'-0"
STATE ST (NORTH) ELEVATION - RECESSED ROOMS
1" = 20'-0"
VILLA TERRACE (SOUTH) ELEVATION - RECESSED ROOMS
1" = 20'-0"
TYPICAL FLOOR PLAN - EAST ELEVATION
1" = 20'-0"
1ST FLOOR PLAN - EAST ELEVATION
1" = 30'-0"
N SAN MATEO (EAST) ELEVATION - MATERIAL & COLOR
1" = 30'-0"
STATE ST (NORTH) ELEVATION - MATERIAL & COLOR
1" = 30'-0"
VILLA TERRACE (SOUTH) ELEVATION - MATERIAL AND COLOR
VILLA TERRACE & N SAN MATEO DR - NE AXON
STATE ST & N SAN MATEO DR - NW AXON

--- page 48 ---
4.1.6 MASSING BREAKS -
MID-RISE BUILDINGS
CITY OF SAN MATEO   |   OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS
SUMMARY 
N SAN MATEO (EAST) FACADE
10 MAIN SEGMENTS OVER 337' - 5"
33'- 9" AVERAGE MAIN SEGMENT LENGTH
VILLA TERRACE (SOUTH) FACADE
6 MAIN SEGMENTS OVER 122' - 2"
20'- 4" AVERAGE MAIN SEGMENT LENGTH
STATE ST (NORTH) FACADE
5 MAIN SEGMENTS OVER 136' - 8"
26'- 9" AVERAGE MAIN SEGMENT LENGTH
LEGEND
MAIN BUILDING SEGMENT
BUILDING SUBSEGMENT
*DUE TO THE LENGTH OF EAST FACADE (337' - 5") 
SUBSEGMENTS ARE INTRODUCED TO FURTHER ARTICULATE 
MAIN BUILDING SEGMENTS
SEGMENT C
57' - 0"
VARIATIONS: 
SEGMENT A TO B
MATERIAL CHANGE
EXCLUSION OF BANDING
4'-0" WALL OFFSET 
9'-6" HEIGHT CHANGE
SEGMENT D
50' - 1"
SEGMENT E
82' - 3"
OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH
337' - 5"
SEGMENT G
46' - 9"
SEGMENT F
20' - 0"
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT C TO D
MATERIAL CHANGE
EXCLUSION OF BANDING
1'-2" WALL OFFSET 
9'-6" HEIGHT CHANGE
2' - 0"
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT D TO E
MATERIAL CHANGE
CHANGE TO CORNICE
3'-2" WALL OFFSET 
11'-0" HEIGHT CHANGE
3' - 6"
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT E TO F
MATERIAL CHANGE
EXCLUSION OF CORNICE
5'-1" WALL OFFSET 
3'-6" HEIGHT CHANGE
3' - 6"
2' - 0"
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT F TO G
MATERIAL CHANGE
CHANGE TO CORNICE
5'-1" WALL OFFSET 
2'-0" HEIGHT CHANGE
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT G TO H
MATERIAL CHANGE
EXCLUSION OF CORNICE
3'-11" WALL OFFSET 
0'-6" HEIGHT CHANGE
6"
13' - 0"
11' - 0"
9' - 6"
2' - 0"
9' - 6"
SEGMENT A
35' - 10"
SEGMENT B
3' - 1"
SEGMENT H
7' - 5"
SEGMENT I
25' - 6"
SEGMENT J
9' - 8"
SUBSEGMENT A
9' - 0"
SUBSEGMENT B
9' - 0"
SUBSEGMENT C
7' - 10"
SUBSEGMENT D
9' - 0"
SUBSEGMENT E
9' - 0"
SUBSEGMENT F
9' - 0"
SUBSEGMENT G
9' - 5"
10' - 5"
3' - 1"
35' - 10"
19' - 2"
17' - 7"
9' - 5"
13' - 11"
24' - 9"
14' - 1"
14' - 0"
13' - 2"
20' - 1"
13' - 3"
9' - 8"
25' - 6"
7' - 5"
24' - 0"
VARIATIONS: 
SEGMENT B TO C
MATERIAL CHANGE
CHANGE TO CORNICE
2'-0" WALL OFFSET 
2'-0" HEIGHT CHANGE
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT H TO I
MATERIAL CHANGE
CHANGE TO SIMPLE BAND
1'-9" WALL OFFSET 
13'-0" HEIGHT CHANGE
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT I TO J
MATERIAL CHANGE
INCLUSION OF SIMPLE BAND
1'-2" WALL OFFSET 
3'-6" HEIGHT CHANGE
3' - 6"
PEDESTRIAN 
ENTRANCE
1' - 2"
3' - 2"
1' - 9"
LINE OF WALL AT 6TH FLOOR
4' - 0"
LINE OF WALL AT 6TH FLOOR
5' - 8"
LINE OF WALL AT 6TH FLOOR
6' - 3"
5' - 1"
5' - 1"
5' - 2"
1' - 0"
10' - 5"
4' - 5"
5' - 2"
5' - 2"
5' - 2"
5' - 1"
WALL PLANE OFFSET, 
MAIN SEGMENTS
WALL PLANE OFFSET, 
SUBSEGMENTS
2' - 0"
3' - 11"
1' - 2"
SEGMENT C
35' - 0"
BUILDING SEGMENT D
30' - 9"
BUILDING SEGMENT E
34' - 3"
OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH
136' - 8"
VARIATIONS: 
SEGMENT A TO B
MATERIAL CHANGE
EXCLUSION OF BANDING 
2'-1" WALL OFFSET 
9'-2" HEIGHT CHANGE
9' - 2"
VARIATIONS: 
SEGMENT C TO D
MATERIAL CHANGE
EXCLUSION OF BANDING
2'-10" WALL OFFSET 
10'-6" HEIGHT CHANGE
10' - 6"
VARIATIONS: 
SEGMENT D TO E
MATERIAL CHANGE
CHANGE TO SIMPLE BANDING
2'-10" WALL OFFSET 
1'-0" HEIGHT CHANGE
1' - 0"
SEGMENT A
31' - 4"
SEGMENT B
5' - 5"
SUBSEGMENT A
9' - 0"
31' - 4"
5' - 5"
1' - 5"
24' - 7"
30' - 9"
34' - 3"
VARIATIONS: 
SEGMENT B TO C
MATERIAL CHANGE
INCLUSION OF BANDING 
2'-1" WALL OFFSET 
0'-6" HEIGHT CHANGE
6"
PEDESTRIAN 
ENTRANCE
LINE OF WALL AT 
6TH FLOOR
2' - 1"
2' - 10"
2' - 10"
5' - 7"
LINE OF WALL 
AT 6TH FLOOR
5' - 0"
16' - 8"
5' - 0"
2' - 1"
SEGMENT B
10' - 0"
SEGMENT C
30' - 0"
SEGMENT D
6' - 3"
SEGMENT E
35' - 8"
SUBSEGMENT A
16' - 1"
14' - 11"
40' - 4"
32' - 9"
10' - 0"
30' - 0"
6' - 3" 4' - 8"
BUILDING WIDTH
40' - 4"
BUILDING WIDTH
81' - 10"
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT A TO B
MATERIAL CHANGE
INCLUSION OF SIMPLE BAND
2'-1" WALL OFFSET 
11'-0" HEIGHT CHANGE
SEGMENT A
40' - 4"
11' - 0"
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT B TO C
MATERIAL CHANGE
INCLUSION OF SIMPLE BAND
71'-10" WALL OFFSET 
2'-0" HEIGHT CHANGE
2' - 0"
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT C TO D
MATERIAL CHANGE
EXCLUSION OF SIMPLE BAND
5'-0" WALL OFFSET 
1'-6" HEIGHT CHANGE
1' - 6"
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT D TO E
MATERIAL CHANGE
INCLUSION OF SIMPLE BAND
8'-5" WALL OFFSET 
7'-6" HEIGHT CHANGE
7' - 6"
PEDESTRIAN 
ENTRANCE
5' - 0"
8' - 5"
1' - 0"
10' - 7"
71' - 10"
73' - 11"
LINE OF WALL AT 
6TH FLOOR
8' - 5"
2' - 1"
326' - 10"
3-DIMENSIONAL 
PILASTERS FOR WALL 
PLANE VARIATION
21' - 5"
127' - 5"
178' - 0"
NOTE: REAR ELEVATION IS NOT A STREET FRONTAGE FACADE 
TRAILING FLORA FOR 
VERTICAL WALL PLANE 
MASSING VARIATION
3-DIMENSIONAL 
PILASTERS FOR WALL 
PLANE VARIATION
TRAILING FLORA FOR 
VERTICAL WALL PLANE 
MASSING VARIATION
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
G 0.09
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
ODS DIAGRAMS
1" = 20'-0"
N SAN MATEO (EAST) ELEVATION - FLAT PLANE VARIATION
1" = 20'-0"
STATE ST (NORTH) ELEVATION - FLAT PLANE VARIATION
1" = 20'-0"
VILLA TERRACE (SOUTH) ELEVATION - FLAT PLANE VARIATION
1" = 20'-0"
WEST (REAR) ELEVATION

--- page 49 ---
1237 SF
2 BEDROOM
942 SF
1 BEDROOM
533 SF
STUDIO
634 SF
URBAN 1 BED
708 SF
1 BEDROOM
740 SF
1 BEDROOM
965 SF
2 BEDROOM
673 SF
URBAN 1 BED
755 SF
1 BEDROOM
1101 SF
2 BEDROOM
699 SF
1 BEDROOM
757 SF
1 BEDROOM
961 SF
2 BEDROOM
673 SF
URBAN 1 BED
767 SF
1 BEDROOM
977 SF
2 BEDROOM
1177 SF
2 BEDROOM
742 SF
1 BEDROOM
669 SF
URBAN 1 BED
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
1" = 40'-0"
G 0.10
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
BMR UNIT LOCATIONS
1" = 40'-0"
BMR UNIT LOCATIONS - 1ST FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
BMR UNIT LOCATIONS - 2ND FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
BMR UNIT LOCATIONS - 3RD FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
BMR UNIT LOCATIONS - 6TH FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
BMR UNIT LOCATIONS - 4TH FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
BMR UNIT LOCATIONS - 5TH FLOOR
BMR UNIT COUNT
UNIT TYPE
BEDROOMS
COUNT
STUDIO
1
5
2 BEDROOM
2
6
1 BEDROOM
1
8
TOTAL: 19
INTERIOR FINISHES AND AMENITIES OF BMR UNITS WILL 
EQUAL THAT OF THE MARKET RATE UNITS
BMR UNITS WILL HAVE THE SAME ACCESS AND ENJOYMENT
OF COMMON SPACE, PARKING, STORAGE, AND OTHER FACILITIES
IN THE RESIDENTIAL PROJECT.
ALL BMR UNITS SHALL BE RESERVED FOR OCCUPANCY 
BY VERY LOW INCOME HOUSEHOLDS.
BMR UNIT LOCATIONS

--- page 50 ---
35.88
WV ee ee ee —— -_ & . 36.00
®35.93 ar
———— ——_ - 0H —0H
x35.89 36.22 3 2 SDMH
35.94 RIM: 37.31
INV: 28.46 436.16
36.64 fe | 36.64 SSMH 1 37.90
© an an” 56.71 RIM: 37.20
ss—— — — ———_— ss — ———— SS — eS See N47 50 00 — —Sg———_—— —— sg _____—_* 36.89 9 INV: 32.20
8”VCP RIM: 36.58 8”vCcP 36.74 56.88 36.75 x36.85 x 36.87 37.42
INV: 29.18 STATE ST ONC CURB 36.76
MH AC ' & GUTTER 36.25
36.39© 36.17 36.68 (R/W: 60’) 36.47 GROUND St SIGN
0 35.96 36.01 36.17, 36.6 236.33,{-36.42 36.48 [36.83 ~~ SAN v gt AC 36.49
x35.96 bd 35, 86 x 36.34 ag 2° . 36.51 : G58 36, 4236.51 } * AIF 936.31
, 36.19" HO — HO — ~ 36.08 35.99 BE 4i seas 36.79~35-03<0AD Ground | HO 33 |
Dw 02 36 70 28-42 36.42 DW 36 40 "59 36.34
36.20 36.702" 36.49 36.39
36.44 Se ee ee ee 36.58 — 2° _ 39.92 |
. iO CT
LAMP ST SIGN 36.6012 RCP) | 36.734 438-97
56.82 35.92 | ye“
x36. 36.38
\ *37.69 436.41
, 36.00
\ 37.11 36.88 36.64 Y AC |
; 36.68 VY
| 36.88x
\ Ft |
74
| 36.97
L=43.32 36.88 n 36.4
3 R=276.05 76
S x37.00 ONC CURB
\ x & G
36.90 h36.45
\ x
37.97 37.54 AC x37.01 x 37.11 36.18 *37.87
l _*37.66 _ _ _ _ N47". 30" 00"E __ __ LAMP 36.70
_ | —_— 150.00 56.84 | 136.56
— CONC CURB
— — | & GUTTER
\ BUILDING “
— ° °
— XY \ *37.65 x37.54 v
7 38:20 38.00% 37.29
Oo, .
—- Oo ro;
— | oO
™—~ o x37.48 : | 37.15 et |
~~ \ 0 | x 38.08 | 3
~~ \ 36.67 _
™. GRADE BREAK 36.99 -
~— — (ill REAK CON 37.30 _ + v0
~—_ | 38.71 me) 37.87, on
— | =e 5 ——— HO, = HO 36.60 +
ye 39.36 39.32 38 995 29:04 38.90 2058.69 Lamp N47 30° 00"E 150.00 /37 3873 | co fo)
—~ BUILDING 8 , «39.10 39.07¢B/9 38.30 37.33 | 37.748 | |
—~ \ 8 x39.02 ra 36.77 W
—~ \ S «38.62 38.16x 3715 VY
—~ 5 38.83 P58 53 8 37.54 ria
cB . x38. 37.14
™ te 38.20 658.20 37.85 97.78 37.32
™—~ oar | 39.54 . 37.80 3713 *38.25
—~ E *38.62 x38.76 .
| — . 238.14 37.64 s.
ro 3+ 39.63
| ~~ [LAMP Ssco 35
~~ Basis ; \ : x 38.79 35.6) 36.95
OF Ap, \ x39.37 .
NG : AC
— .
~— 39.30 39.12, LAMP OPN 38.87 38.75 | . x=
Se eee ee ee ee Se ee __ >” — — __150.00 _LAMPe x39.2200 CU st—Cs—Cist . SSMH °
x .
59.84 39.303 59.06 S47° 30’ 00";W. Ss 165.00° 5 38.53 re) . 284"
‘8 3 x 38.68 N a || RIM: 38.44
oo 3 ~ . 8 || INV: 34.80
3.34.  C2438:12.% 37.71 1 5
39.02 x , 38.15 Sh 37. 5 o : co = .
38.85 © 38.13 37.75 ¥cB 8 . =
| | oo 2 fo . ro)
re) Ls 9 . 5
| ' x38.48 *38.78 x 38.90 37°98 12.5 ” 524
40.30 x[{k 39.83 x38.76 38.62 37.96 : Q .
38.56 x38.26 37.86 z
39.03 38.64 37.84 . q
39.04 39.13 cs 37.76 38.52
39.12 | ge TG 36.98
VAC ; x38. INV 31.98 a
| a ACH UNIT x39.20 8 $8.80 WM Pvo
Ps} oO 37.94
x39,22
| N || 39.28% 38.53. 37.98
=
o
Oo
8 io 37 x39.00 x 38.71
| 3 I 39.30 37.06
39.33 x {+39.62 BUILDING ; 38.67
| | N FF: 39.58 37.26
40.28 39.38 37.9 w
WM a “-o
: ; ° + =
BOLLARD (TYP. «39.50 u a <z
CONC. 39.56. ° 5 > >
| | i3| ° 9 <~
39.60 499.92 fo.) x39.23 38.08
| 5p Se f x 39,34
conc 39.63x5 Me 5B cM BRICK nN
CURB 39.73x g CO 39 45x *39-59 3946 39.25 PLANTER ce)
BUILDING ——x40.00 ‘ . 39.32 FS 38.67
40.22-\| 8" 39.61, 54 3983 56 30.29) > x39.16 % 7.20 |
- aa = . PILLAR (TYP. |
| NS _M47° 30° 00"E 49.16 _ conc 39.95
4 3 12".8"8
z TREE DRIP
BUILDING = , / LINE (TYP.)
m 40.02 AC ]
; 39.11 39.164 439.17 2
o 6"9 =
| wn x zg |
| T.CLUM 3 % een 38.93 |
Pe]
. 38.83 . 57.28
x OCB 37.70 7.91
| uw Bsr ef
& * 00 00 -
8 grr HO A x $8.20
40.22 > \ ONC CURB -°
" f32-10 39.01 | a
| & 13 /PY A
TREE DRIP.” R=1905.00 ( CONC CURB |
LINE (TYP) 39.16 & GUTTER 34.97
i [o}
( fe - RIM: 38.57 1
x 39.74 39.41 39.19% —l< is INV: 30.52
. 59.14 “39.96 “
38.91438: 38.84 Hy 58400
__7 39.14 en Fs 37.79% #37.52|
9.10 38.60 "38.88 Sain \ |
3°84 38:85 CONC CURE 38.96 37.51
x 39.08 37.82 NY
OS 37.78
Ac L=50.00 VILLA TERRACE cB Hak
R=1875.00 (R/W: 60’) RIM: 37.74 \ 4 AC .
30.00. NV;S3.44 2 oO SSMHIF og
__ *39.40 38.91 S50] 01" 00” 8.52 ;
9G SS. —_— _ . ss— — x38.56 638.86 8”VCP
41.37 41.29 : s—- — —— - - —SS- = -—- SS RIM: 38.52, 8"VCP ] SSMH 38.70
8” VCP B”VCP INV: 27.02! RIM: 38.85 ,
. 38.07 INV: 34.25
RIM: 41-28 39.16 CONC CURB cB $7.95 8 3) }
39.59 t= 38.85, N38 47 38.81 37.99 38.02 S77 © = x
_ : ty . oO
HO — HO — OH ~ 0H —0H On 5 Z.79f Th} 37.85
————— HO — P Q.16 = OF fe)
x L-
— 38.337 W
ee 38.50» 37.44 \
~ 37.3574 N57
38.400 Es 338.9
38.49, V
$ WV
|
[oe]
x

715-723 AND 733 N. SAN MATEO DR.
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
APN:.032-151-130, 032-151-300, AND 032-151-320

SMP ENGINEERS

CIVIL ENGINEERS—LAND SURVEYORS

1534 Carob Lane
Tel. (650) 941-8055

Los Altos, CA 94024
Fax (650) 941-8755

Scale:
4” _ 35’
Prepared by:
J.N.
Checked by:

R,
Date:
10/24/2022

Project No:

222116

PRELIMINARY BOUNDARY AND
TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY MAP

Sheet No:

LEGEND

-- PROPERTY LINE AC ASPHALT
AD AREA DRAIN
EXISTING LOTS ANC ANCHOR
BSBL BUILDING SETBACK LINE
CENTERLINE C&G CURB AND GUTTER
CB CATCH BASIN
—_— — — — — — — EASEMENT LINE CO CLEAN OUT
DW DRIVEWAY
EB ELECTRIC BOX
ss——— SANITARY SEWER LINE = SEC IBIG BEER
— STORM DRAIN LINE EP EDGE OF PAVEMENT
FH FIRE HYDRANT
—— -OH OVERHEAD POWER LINE GA GUY ANCHOR
GM GAS METER
WOOD FENCE GV GAS VALVE
IV IRRIGATION VALVE
LP LIGHT POLE
MB MAIL BOX
MH UTILITY MANHOLE
—_o— POWER POLE P.U.E. PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT
xy P BRICK CONC PILLAR
B® FIRE HYDRANT Pp POWER POLE
(R) RADIAL BEARING
ro} JOINT POLE SL STREET LIGHT
SDMH STORM DRAINAGE MANHOLE
© SURVEY MONUMENT FOUND SSMH SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE
SSCO SANITARY SEWER CLEAN OUT
TCD THROUGH CURB DRAIN
e TBM (ELEVATION) Ts TRAFFIC SIGN
wy VG VALLEY GUTTER
WM WATER METER
Dx] WATER VALVE Wy WATER VALVE

DISCLAIMER:

SMP ENGINEERS OR ITS OFFICERS OR AGENTS SHALL NOT BE RESPONSIBLE FOR
THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF ELECTRONIC COPIES OF THIS PLAN.

NOTE:

THIS MAP REPRESENTS TOPOGRAPHY OF THE SURFACE FEATURES ONLY.
UNLESS SPECIFIED ON THIS MAP, LOCATIONS OF THE UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
ARE NEITHER INTENDED NOR IMPLIED. FOR THE LOCATIONS OF UNDERGROUND
UTILITIES CALL “USA” (1-800-642-2444). SURFACE FEATURES ARE LOCATED
BY MEANS OF A STATION AND OFFSET FROM THE CONTROL LINE.

BASIS OF BEARINGS:

FOUND SURVEY MONUMENTS. RECORD INFORMATION WAS USED. PER RECORD
MAP, BOOK:60 PAGE: 49 WHICH IS FILED IN THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO
RECORDER’S OFFICE.

PROJECT BENCHMARK:

N.G.S,. BENCHMARK #HT—0562
ELEVATION=15.60° (NAVD 88 DATUM)

SITE BENCHMARK:

SURVEY CONTROL SET MAG NAIL
ELEVATION=37.70° (NAVD 88 DATUM)

NOTES:

1. ALL DIMENSIONS ARE GIVEN IN FEET AND DECIMALS THEREOF.
2. THE GROSS AREA OF LAND OF RECORD IS 27,509—7,500-14,915 SQ. FT. +.

3. THE MAP WAS BASED ON A GRANT DEED DOC.# 1218834. DATED 08/20/2021,
RECORDED IN SAN MATEO COUNTY.

4. ALL EXISTING BUILDINGS ARE WOOD.
5. FOR PRECISE SPECIES OF TREES A CERTIFIED ARBORIST SHALL BE CONSULTED.

6. THIS DRAWING REPRESENTS A TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY PREPARED IN
CONFORMANCE WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE LAND SURVEYORS ACT. THE
PROPERTY LINES SHOWN HEREON ARE COMPILED FROM RECORD DATA AND
REPRESENT THE BEST GRAPHICAL FIT BETWEEN RECORD INFORMATION AND THE
TOPOGRAPHICAL FEATURES SURVEYED AND SHOULD NOT BE RELIED UPON OR
USED FOR ANY OTHER PURPOSES. PURSUANT TO THE CLIENT'S DIRECTION A
BOUNDARY SURVEY WAS NOT PERFORMED AT THIS TIME WHICH MAY HAVE
DETERMINED THE ACTUAL PROPERTY LINES.

SCALE 1°= 35°

GRAPHIC SCALE

35 (¢) 17.5 35 70 140

a

( IN FEET )
1 inch = 35 ft.

CITY OF SAN MATEO

DESIGN| DesiGN | city | APPR.
D> | REVISIONS DATE | APPR. | DATE


--- page 51 ---
LEGAL DESCRIPTION

AS TO PARCEL "A":

SURVEYOR'S NOTE

THIS SURVEY IS COMPRISED OF LANDS COVERED BY TWO TITLE REPORTS: “i,
LEGAL DESCRIPTION PER THE COMMITMENT FOR TITLE INSURANCE PREPARED BY FIRST AMERICAN 4 fa)
TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY, COMMITMENT NO. NCS-1157280-CC, DATED DECEMBER 15, 2022: THE LANDS COVERED BY THE COMMITMENT FOR TITLE INSURANCE ISSUED BY FIRST AMERICAN TITLE zy ZB

INSURANCE COMPANY, FILE NO. NCS-1157280-CC, DATED DECEMBER 15, 2022, SHALL BE REFERRED TO ON Y Fy
The Land referred to herein below is situated in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of THIS SURVEW AS" BARCEL A £0, i» 7.
California, and is described as follows: THE LANDS COVERED BY THE PRELIMINARY TITLE REPORT PREPARED BY FIRST AMERICAN TITLE COMPANY, OR- a Oo,

DER NO. 0107-6954510, DATED JANUARY 26, 2023, SHALL BE REFERRED TO ON THIS SURVEY AS " PARCEL 'B'". S
PARCEL ONE: —<=_—seoss—

Xp
PARCEL 1, AS SHOWN ON THAT CERTAIN MAP ENTITLED, "PARCEL MAP 274," FILED IN THE OFFICE OF .
THE COUNTY RECORDER OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, STATE OF CALIFORNIA ON FEBRUARY 29, 1988 IN SD
BOOK 60 OF PARCEL MAPS, AT PAGES 48 AND 49. a
«,
PARCEL TWO: NOTES SITE ox Ss
K, ge

LOT 1, BLOCK 4, AS SHOWN ON THAT CERTAIN MAP ENTITLED, "MAP OF CENTRAL ADDITION TO SAN AS or
MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA", FILED IN THE OFFICE OF THE RECORDER OF THE ASSESSOR'S PARCEL NUMBERS 032-151-300 715 NORTH SAN MATEO DRIVE, SAN MATEO, CA 94401 S Y

OF SAN MATEO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA ON APRIL 27, 1904 IN BOOK "E" OF MAPS AT PAGE 59 AND A
COPY ENTERED INTO BOOK 3 OF MAPS AT PAGE 29, MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

BEGINNING AT A POINT ON THE NORTHWESTERLY LINE OF VILLA TERRACE DISTANT THEREON 165

THERE ARE NO KNOWN PROPOSED CHANGES IN STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY LINES.

THE SURVEYED PROPERTY CREATES A MATHEMATICALLY CLOSED FIGURE, WITH NO GAPS, GORES, OVERLAPS OR HIATUS INHERENT TO THE SURVEYED

COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, ON JULY 24, 1906 IN BOOK "A" OF MAPS AT PAGE(S) AND STREET ADDRESSES: 032-151-130 715 NORTH SAN MATEO DRIVE, SAN MATEO, CA 94401
54, AND COPIED INTO BOOK 4 OF MAPS AT PAGE 27. 032-151-320 715 NORTH SAN MATEO DRIVE, SAN MATEO, CA 94401
032-151-160 247 VILLA TERRACE, SAN MATEO, CA 94401 -N-
PARCEL THREE: AREA OF SUBJECT PROPERTY: 53,141+ SQ. FT (1.220+ AC.)
LOTS 2 AND 3, BLOCK 4, AS SHOWN ON THAT CERTAIN MAP ENTITLED, "MAP OF CENTRAL ADDITION ON-SITE PARKING SPACES: STANDARD: 59
TO SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA", FILED IN THE OFFICE OF THE RECORDER OF THE HANDICAP: 3 “yn
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, ON JULY 24, 1906 IN BOOK "A" OF MAPS AT PAGE(S) Se
54, AND COPIED INTO BOOK 4 OF MAPS AT PAGE 27. TOTAL: 54 Z
V¥

THIS MAP SHOWS ALL EASEMENTS OF RECORD PER THE COMMITMENT FOR TITLE INSURANCE ISSUED BY FIRST AMERICAN TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY, a

FILE NO. NCS-1157280-CC, DATED DECEMBER 15, 2022 (AS TO PARCEL 'A') AND THE PRELIMINARY TITLE REPORT PREPARED BY FIRST AMERICAN TITLE P5

COMPANY, ORDER NO. 0107-6954510, DATED JANUARY 26, 2023 (AS TO PARCEL 'B’').
AS TO PARCEL "B":
TO THE SUBJECT PROPERTY LIES IN ZONE "X" (AREAS OF MINIMAL FLOOD HAZARD) PER F.E.M.A. FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP, MAP NUMBER 06081C0154G,
LEGAL DESCRIPTION PER THE PRELIMINARY TITLE REPORT PREPARED BY FIRST AMERICAN TITLE DATED APRIL 5, 2019. VICINITY MAP
COMPANY, ORDER NO. 0107-6954510, DATED JANUARY 26, 2023: N.T.S

ALL TIES FROM BUILDING CORNERS TO PROPERTY LINES ARE AT RIGHT ANGLES TO THE PROPERTY LINE. 2 fate
Real property in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, described as follows: THERE IS NO OBSERVABLE EVIDENCE OF CEMETERIES OR BURIAL GROUNDS.
PORTION OF LOT 13, BLOCK LETTERED "D", AS DESIGNATED ON THE MAP ENTITLED "MAP NO. 2 OF THERE IS NO OBSERVABLE EVIDENCE OF SITE USE AS A SOLID WASTE DUMP, SUMP OR SANITARY LANDFILL.
SAN MATEO HEIGHTS", WHICH MAP WAS FILED IN THE OFFICE OF THE RECORDER OF THE COUNTY

THERE IS NO OBSERVABLE EVIDENCE OF EARTH MOVING WORK, BUILDING CONSTRUCTION OR BUILDING ADDITIONS WITHIN RECENT MONTHS.

ALL PLANS ARE PRELIMINARY AND NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION UNLESS SIGNED AND STAMPED BY THE ENGINEER AND REVIEWING AGENCY.

FEET 1 INCH SOUTHWESTERLY FROM THE SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF SAN MATEO DRIVE, AS SHOWN PROPERTY BASED ON THE FIELD SURVEY PROVIDED AND TITLE COMMITMENTS PROVIDED.
ON THAT CERTAIN MAP ENTITLED "THE PROPERTY OF THE SAN MATEO LAND ASSOCIATION, A
SUBDIVISION OF A PORTION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, SURVEYED MAY 1895 BY D.
BROMFIELD, CIVIL ENGINEER AND SURVEYOR", WHICH SAID MAP WAS FILED IN THE OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY RECORDER OF SAN MATEO COUNTY JUNE 5, 1895 IN BOOK 2 OF MAPS AT PAGE 72 THEREOF,
REFERENCE BEING HEREBY MADE THERETO; AND THENCE RUNNING NORTHWESTERLY PARALLEL
WITH SAID SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF SAN MATEO DRIVE 63 FEET 10 INCHES; THENCE AT RIGHT
ANGLE NORTHEASTERLY ALONG THE LINE DIVIDING LOTS 12 AND 13, IN BLOCK "D", AS SHOWN ON
SAID MAP, 49.11 FEET; THENCE AT RIGHT ANGLE SOUTHEASTERLY 63 FEET 10 INCHES, MORE OR | FE G FE N D
LESS, TO SAID NORTHWESTERLY LINE OF VILLA TERRACE; THENCE SOUTHWESTERLY ALONG SAID
LINE OF VILLA TERRACE, 49.11 FEET MORE OR LESS TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING. KEY TO EXISTING EASEMENTS
(@) FOUND STANDARD STREET MONUMENT
AS TO PARCEL "A":
NOTE: THE NUMBERS SHOWN BELOW CORRESPOND TO THOSE USED IN THE COMMITMENT FOR TITLE INSURANCE PREPARED oe ww = == PROPERTY BOUNDARY LINE
BY FIRST AMERICAN TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY, COMMITMENT NO. NCS-1157280-CC, DATED DECEMBER 15, 2022.
NUMBERS WITHIN HEXAGON SYMBOLS ARE PLOTTED ON THIS MAP. AD AREA DRAIN
4 EASEMENTS, LIENS OR ENCUMBRANCES, OR CLAIMS THEREOF, NOT SHOWN BY THE PUBLIC RECORDS.
—==NOT PLOTTABLE=== CATV CABLE TELEVISION BOX
6 (a) UNPATENTED MINING CLAIMS; (b) RESERVATIONS OR EXCEPTIONS IN PATENTS OR IN ACTS AUTHORIZING DI DRAINAGE INLET
THE ISSUANCE THEREOF; (c) WATER RIGHTS, CLAIMS OR TITLE TO WATER, WHETHER OR NOT THE MATTERS
EXCEPTED UNDER (a), (b), OR (c) ARE SHOWN BY THE PUBLIC RECORDS. ===NOT PLOTTABLE===
CO CLEAN OUT

23 WATER RIGHTS, CLAIMS OR TITLE TO WATER, WHETHER OR NOT SHOWN BY THE PUBLIC RECORDS.
===NOT PLOTTABLE===

ELEC ELECTRIC BOX
AS TO PARCEL "B": MH MANHOLE
THERE ARE NO EASEMENTS OF RECORD PER THE PRELIMINARY TITLE REPORT PREPARED BY FIRST AMERICAN TITLE
COMPANY, ORDER NO. 0107-6954510, DATED JANUARY 26, 2023. PGE PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC BOX

SURVEY CERTIFICATE

TO: FIRST AMERICAN TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY
PROMETHEUS REAL ESTATE GROUP, INC., A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION ST LT STREET LIGHT

LT POLE LIGHT POLE

THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT THIS MAP OR PLAT AND THE SURVEY ON WHICH IT IS BASED WERE MADE IN ACCORDANCE WM WATER METER
WITH THE 2021 MINIMUM STANDARD DETAIL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALTA / NSPS LAND TITLE SURVEYS, JOINTLY ZONING REPORT
ESTABLISHED AND ADOPTED BY ALTA AND NSPS, AND INCLUDES ITEMS 2, 3, 4, 6(a), 6(b), 7(a), 8, 9, 13, 16 —

& 19 ($1,000,000) OF TABLE A THEREOF. THE FIELD WORK WAS COMPLETED ON JUNE 29, 2022. A ZONING REPORT HAS NOT BEEN PROVIDED TO THE SURVEYOR. WV WATER VALVE

DWY DRIVEWAY
DATE OF PLAT OR MAP: LAME JP JOINT POWER POLE
EASTON C MCALLISTER
P.L.S. 9583 < > RECORD INFORMATION

LICENSE RENEWAL: 03/31/2023

Date:

DEBOLT CIVIL ENGINEERING arte

Scale:

A.L.T.A. / N.S.P.S. LAND TITLE SURVEY

45 - 480 SAN RAMON VALLEY BLVD #L

DANVILLE, CALIFORNIA 94526
EASTON C MCALLISTER - PE 61148 / PLS 9583 YEARS (925) 837-3780 | DEBOLTCIVIL.COM
RENEWAL DATE: 12/31/24 (PE) 03/31/23 (PLS)

715-733 NORTH SAN MATEO ROAD & 247 VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

SHEET 1 OF 2 SHEETS



--- page 52 ---
BASIS OF BEARINGS

THE BEARING OF STATE STREET, TAKEN AS NORTH 47°30'00" EAST,

AS SHOWN ON THE PARCEL MAP 274 (60-PM-48) AND ON THE MAP OF
"THE GARDENS OF STATE STREET" (103-M-29). AND DETERMINED BY
CURB-SPLITTING.

_

CO BOX

- -—D” K=
— SSMH © stir -==—
7 ShrGr AP’ ary 1 243,32. ———~~— LT-POLE._____WM____196,8g1,Ww—______- --_-----__________ 8 _“______________~- ~
/ — — “BOX '
Wr ALY 1 56.86 ”
{ [— | "Sox autong SECO |
[ (BOX | BUILDING l BOX |
= =~ | lt > spaces | SIGN SIGN Kf
-~te7 sy i ° | hs
S \ oe A 3 oe eh
\\ sign! “1 3 LT POLE) %* fi Jy I
I | Mt CAD i 4 wy i
| | Ll |. rm B ay 1
| Lt : ) r
I | lity ” ” SUB I |
I | Li I
iI | JP POLE |j i. PARCEL A 1D | I I |
Il | w/ANCHOR | | Be | I | |
I, 17.9, 17.9" it i. PAVEMENT i | 20.0
| i co PARCEL TWO ' | i
, I | < ELEC o || | 1 fl
f | | . PAVEMENT 5 ! |
! !
|
" :
|
: |
¢ |

(
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
ian HT
i ee Hi |
Il 2 i 28 LT POLE | Spaces ~ eke ‘ E ===7 | | : 7
7 a | Il wee LTPOLEXES BPS SPB NBO gg TF ia! g i
Hl 62 ll fy No eee RE nn z |
t I | BLDG IN | a 2 I
| -— | PARKING| =| | I | aI | | 3 |
y; LO SN Ee TT TT Ta 8 Sik ~
ni LL i 1 space PAVEMENT _ A ure__ (N18 8i8 i
| ~~ 7 | EXISTING rr ll hi | = | |
! : — | | | | TWO-STORY BUILDING 0.2’ IN CONC DWY Peri O | |
7 Y) hi | nl s r
HI L_ | 1 al
! ! E | | ! EXISTING ! I w/ANCHOR | iT :
il eg | Po Be pe LL apt , TWO-STORY BUILDING mid IPGRE KE ii
| 9 9 BOX | Il
ef wits | PARCEL Be gist | og |
i WN. pl lia) | N42°32.03'W we Pat (EE <i
| ii ty 150.00' Sn SIS! i — ||
I | I | | = 17.2" ao ! han _J ii
: ie : este ait So
I | ib | z N42°33'08"W ; i ll! 1 > il
if iil COMMON AREA ~ LOT 1 of 184.37' | fF fl
I "THE GARDENS OF STATE STREET” T pit | i!
II | (103—M—29) PARRES 1 IZ | !
I | | A TEER oe) (2003-017932) If lig | I
i | — APN: 032-151-170 | | IS | I
mnt |
—------------ ee eee ee ee ee em err rr | | Ul { Il
| | Wl | Il /
| of Ne? at I ~
h. N | l | ll
‘A SA
NOV! pew |
: ch
ee ne | GRAPHIC SCALE
\ 20 0 10 20 40 80
|
CO | 1 an = ee -
|
x0 |
A.L.T.A. / N.S.P.S. LAND TITLE SURVEY a DEBOLT CIVIL ENGINEERING | 2?”
7 >
715-733 NORTH SAN MATEO ROAD & 247 VILLA TERRACE AE a7 es GRE oserravonvaiiey avon
SEGA Sane }
SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA RENEWAL DATE: 120104 JFE)0G0003 LG) es YEARS | (225) 887-3780 | DEBOLTCIviL.com

ALL PLANS ARE PRELIMINARY AND NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION UNLESS SIGNED AND STAMPED BY THE ENGINEER AND REVIEWING AGENCY.

SHEET 2 OF 2 SHEETS



--- page 53 ---
C1.0
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
11/03/2025
20241881
BN
12-31-27
TITLE SHEET
OCTOBER 9, 2025

--- page 54 ---
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
11/03/2025
20241881
BN
12-31-27
C2.0
EXISTING CONDITIONS

--- page 55 ---
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
11/03/2025
20241881
BN
12-31-27
C3.0
VESTING TENTATIVE PARCEL
MAP

--- page 56 ---
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
ELEV 1
202 SF
FIRE
COMMAND
536 SF
MAIL/PACKAGE
1046 SF
LOBBY
921 SF
COWORKING
816 SF
ND/LEASING
25001 SF
PARKING
ELEV 2
1574 SF
BIKE PARKING
945 SF
TRASH ROOM
175 SF
MUDDY
PAWS
250 SF
POOL EQUIPMENT
1086 SF
MAINTENANCE
656 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C4
668 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
838 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UC
942 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
954 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
773 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
753 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
735 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
741 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1427 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2G
667 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
614 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1237 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2D
66 SF
IDF
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
533 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: SB
ELECTRIC
CORRIDOR
MPOE
1325 SF
ELECTRIC
ELECTRIC
193 SF
RESTROOMS
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
11/03/2025
20241881
BN
12-31-27
C4.0
PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN

--- page 57 ---
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
ELEV 1
202 SF
FIRE
COMMAND
536 SF
MAIL/PACKAGE
1046 SF
LOBBY
921 SF
COWORKING
816 SF
ND/LEASING
25001 SF
PARKING
ELEV 2
1574 SF
BIKE PARKING
945 SF
TRASH ROOM
175 SF
MUDDY
PAWS
250 SF
POOL EQUIPMENT
1086 SF
MAINTENANCE
656 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C4
668 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
838 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UC
942 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
954 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
773 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
753 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
735 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
741 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1427 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2G
667 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
614 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1237 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2D
66 SF
IDF
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
533 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: SB
ELECTRIC
CORRIDOR
MPOE
1325 SF
ELECTRIC
ELECTRIC
193 SF
RESTROOMS
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
11/03/2025
20241881
BN
12-31-27
C5.0
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN
RESPONSIBILITY TO INDEPENDENTLY ESTIMATE
APPROXIMATE.  IT SHALL BE THE CONTRACTOR'S
NOTE:  EARTHWORK QUANTITIES SHOWN ARE
EARTH WORK QUANTITIES
FILL (ON & OFF SITE):
CUT (ON & OFF SITE):
QUANTITIES FOR HIS/HER OWN USE. 
200 CY
21,932 CY
NET (ON & OFF SITE): 21,732 CY (EXPORT)

--- page 58 ---
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
ELEV 1
202 SF
FIRE
COMMAND
536 SF
MAIL/PACKAGE
1046 SF
LOBBY
921 SF
COWORKING
816 SF
ND/LEASING
25001 SF
PARKING
ELEV 2
1574 SF
BIKE PARKING
945 SF
TRASH ROOM
175 SF
MUDDY
PAWS
250 SF
POOL EQUIPMENT
1086 SF
MAINTENANCE
656 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C4
668 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
838 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UC
942 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
954 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
773 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
753 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
735 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
741 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1427 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2G
667 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
614 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1237 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2D
66 SF
IDF
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
533 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: SB
ELECTRIC
CORRIDOR
MPOE
1325 SF
ELECTRIC
ELECTRIC
193 SF
RESTROOMS
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
11/03/2025
20241881
BN
12-31-27
C6.0
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN

--- page 59 ---
DN
1034 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A2
606 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: S
588 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C1
743 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
857 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
858 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
857 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
708 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C2
685 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
634 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
731 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
1108 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A1
742 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
1983 SF
AMENITY/GYM
1184 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C3
767 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
740 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
757 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
756 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
755 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
877 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
672 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
672 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
CORRIDOR
ELEV 1
26 SF
IDF
1500 SF
3 BEDROOM
TYPE: 3A
977 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C1
965 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C1
703 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1B1
1148 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2B2
1092 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C4
1066 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2B3
690 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
STAIR 2
672 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
101 SF
TRASH RM W/ CHUTE
55 SF
IDF
ELEV 2
STAIR 3
STAIR 1
A-1
A-2
A-3
A-4
A-5
A-6
A-7
A-6
A-8
A-9
A-10
A-11
A-14a
A-14b
A-13a
A-13a
A-12
FT-1
FT-2
FT-3
FT-4
FT-5
MF-11
FT-10
FT-9
FT-8
FT-7
MF-6
BB-13
BB-14
A-13b
A-14a A-14b
A-#
BB-#
FT-#
MF-#
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
11/03/2025
20241881
BN
12-31-27
C7.0
PRELIMINARY STORMWATER
CONTROL PLAN

--- page 60 ---
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
09/15/2025
20241881
BN
12-31-27
1 of 2
FIRE TRUCK TURNING
EXHIBIT

--- page 61 ---
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
09/15/2025
20241881
BN
12-31-27
2 of 2
COMMERCIAL TRUCK
TURNING EXHIBIT

--- page 62 ---
MATERIALS SCHEDULE
SITE MATERIALS
SYM
CALL
OUT
MATERIAL
REFERENCE
SPECIFICATION
CONCRETE PAVING
SEE CIVIL
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS
CONCRETE STAIRS
PLANTING AREA
M-01
M-02
M-03
M-04
SITE FURNITURE
SYM
CALL
OUT
MATERIAL
REFERENCE
SPECIFICATION
BIKE RACK
TREE GRATE
F-01
F-02
UNIT TYPE
# OF UNITS
SPACE PER
UNIT
BIKE SPACE
REQUIRED
STUDIO
9
0.05
0.45
1 BEDROOM
116
0.05
5.8
2 BEDROOM
52
0.10
5.2
3 BEDROOM
4
0.15
0.6
TOTAL
181
12.05
BIKE PARKING REQUIRED COUNT
UNIT TYPE
# OF RACKS
SPACE PER
RACK
BIKE SPACE #
SINGLE BIKE RACK
6
1
6
DOUBLE BIKE RACK
3
2
6
TOTAL BIKE PARKING
9
12
BIKE PARKING PROVIDED COUNT
SITE FURNITURE
SYM
CALL
OUT
MATERIAL
REFERENCE
SPECIFICATION
FENCING
S-01
V
V
V
V
STATE ST
N SAN MATEO
M-02
M-01
M-04
M-02
M-01
M-04
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
M-03
TYP.
4
L-301
1
L-301
2
L-301
CURB RAMP,
PER CIVIL
CURB RAMP,
PER CIVIL
RAILING AND
GATES, PER
ARCH
ROOT ZONE
OF EXISTING
TREE
ROOT ZONE
OF EXISTING
TREE
3
L-301
S-01
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN: WP/NV
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
11/03/2025
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
CHECKED: JB
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
350 SE Mill Street   Suite 02
Portland, OR 97214
0
SCALE 1"=10'
0
5
30
50FT
0
20
0
10
08-31-26
11-04-25
L-101A
LANDSCAPE PLAN
LEVEL 1A
SEE SHEET L-101B

--- page 63 ---
MATERIALS SCHEDULE
SITE MATERIALS
SYM
CALL
OUT
MATERIAL
REFERENCE
SPECIFICATION
CONCRETE PAVING
SEE CIVIL
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS
CONCRETE STAIRS
PLANTING AREA
M-01
M-02
M-03
M-04
SITE FURNITURE
SYM
CALL
OUT
MATERIAL
REFERENCE
SPECIFICATION
BIKE RACK
TREE GRATE
F-01
F-02
UNIT TYPE
# OF UNITS
SPACE PER
UNIT
BIKE SPACE
REQUIRED
STUDIO
9
0.05
0.45
1 BEDROOM
116
0.05
5.8
2 BEDROOM
52
0.10
5.2
3 BEDROOM
4
0.15
0.6
TOTAL
181
12.05
BIKE PARKING REQUIRED COUNT
UNIT TYPE
# OF RACKS
SPACE PER
RACK
BIKE SPACE #
SINGLE BIKE RACK
6
1
6
DOUBLE BIKE RACK
3
2
6
TOTAL BIKE PARKING
9
12
BIKE PARKING PROVIDED COUNT
SITE FURNITURE
SYM
CALL
OUT
MATERIAL
REFERENCE
SPECIFICATION
FENCING
S-01
RAMP DN
VILLA TERRACE
N SAN MATEO
M-01
M-04
F-01
F-02
M-01
M-02
TYP.
SINGLE
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
M-03
TYP.
5
L-301
CURB RAMP,
PER CIVIL
RAILING AND
GATES, PER
ARCH
M-03
TYP.
F-01
SINGLE
F-01
DOUBLE
6'-0"
O.C.
6'-0"
O.C.
6'-0"
TYP.
2'-6"
TYP.
2'-6"
TYP.
F-01
SINGLE
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN: WP/NV
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
11/03/2025
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
CHECKED: JB
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
350 SE Mill Street   Suite 02
Portland, OR 97214
0
SCALE 1"=10'
0
5
30
50FT
0
20
0
10
08-31-26
11-04-25
L-101B
LANDSCAPE PLAN
LEVEL 1B
SEE SHEET L-101A

--- page 64 ---
DN
M-01 TYP.
M-06 TYP.
M-02 TYP.
M-07 TYP.
M-05 TYP.
M-01 TYP.
S-08
S-09
S-04
F-03
M-05
TYP.
TYP.
M-01 TYP.
M-07 TYP.
S-01 TYP.
S-05
M-02 TYP.
S-01 TYP.
S-02 TYP.
M-03 TYP.
S-03
TYP.
S-06
TYP.
S-05
S-07
F-04
F-02
F-01
TYP.
S-05
S-05
S-05
S-05
MATERIALS SCHEDULE
SITE MATERIALS
SYM
CALL
OUT
MATERIAL
REFERENCE
SPECIFICATION
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER
GRAVEL PAVING- TYPE 1
GRAVEL PAVING- TYPE 2
GRAVEL PAVING- TYPE 3
SPECIALTY PAVING
STEEL RUNNELS
PLANTING AREA
M-01
M-02
M-03
M-04
M-05
M-06
M-07
SITE STRUCTURES
SYM
CALL
OUT
MATERIAL
REFERENCE
SPECIFICATION
CONCRETE WALL- STORMWATER
PLANTER - TYPE 1
SPECIALTY WALL- TYPE 1
SPECIALTY WALL- TYPE 2
POOL FENCING (5' HT)
PRIVACY SCREEN
TRELLIS
FIRE PLACE
POOL
SPA
S-01
S-02
S-03
S-04
S-05
S-06
S-07
S-08
S-09
GENERAL NOTES
1.
ALL SITE FURNISHING IS DIAGRAMMATIC. FURNISHING TO BE SELECTED LATER.
SITE FURNITURE
SYM
CALL
OUT
MATERIAL
REFERENCE
SPECIFICATION
RAISED VEGETABLE PLANTER
COMPOST BIN
WASTE RECEPTACLE
WORK BENCH
F-01
F-02
F-03
F-04
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN: WP/NV
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
11/03/2025
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
CHECKED: JB
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
350 SE Mill Street   Suite 02
Portland, OR 97214
0
SCALE 1"=10'
0
5
30
50FT
0
20
0
10
08-31-26
11-04-25
L-102
LANDSCAPE PLAN
LEVEL 2

--- page 65 ---
F-03
TYP.
F-02
M-01
S-01
TYP.
F-01
M-04
TYP.
S-02
S-04
F-06
F-07
F-08
F-05
F-01
S-03
M-03
M-04
TYP.
F-04
S-03
M-02
TYP.
MATERIALS SCHEDULE
SITE MATERIALS
SYM
CALL
OUT
MATERIAL
REFERENCE
SPECIFICATION
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER
GRAVEL PAVING- TYPE 3
WOOD DECKING
PLANTING AREA
M-01
SITE STRUCTURES
SYM
CALL
OUT
MATERIAL
REFERENCE
SPECIFICATION
STEEL PLANTER
FIRE PLACE
SCREEN WALL
SHADE STRUCTURE
S-01
M-02
M-03
M-04
S-02
S-03
S-04
GENERAL NOTES
1.
ALL SITE FURNISHINGS NOT SHOWN ABOVE ARE DIAGRAMMATIC. FURNISHING
TO BE SELECTED LATER.
SITE FURNITURE
SYM
CALL
OUT
MATERIAL
REFERENCE
SPECIFICATION
BARBEQUE COUNTER
FIRE TABLE
PLANTER POT
RAISED VEGETABLE PLANTER
COMPOST BIN
WASTE RECEPTACLE
WORK BENCH
GARDEN SHED
F-01
F-02
F-03
F-04
F-05
F-06
F-07
F-08
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN: WP/NV
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
11/03/2025
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
CHECKED: JB
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
350 SE Mill Street   Suite 02
Portland, OR 97214
0
SCALE 1"=10'
0
5
30
50FT
0
20
0
10
08-31-26
11-04-25
L-106
LANDSCAPE PLAN
LEVEL 6

--- page 66 ---
PARK SPACE SUMMARY
SYM
FACILITY TYPE
AREA
PROVIDED (SF)
MAX
ALLOWABLE
AREA (SF)
FINAL
CALCULATED
AREA
NOTES
OUTDOOR SEATING AREA
1,287
1267*
1267
See G0.04 and G0.05 for
sun/shade studies.
OUTDOOR EATING AREA
782
724*
724
See G0.04 and G0.05 for
sun/shade studies.
SWIMMING POOL AREA
3187
NONE
3187
POOL AREA=1288 SF
RECREATIONAL BUILDING/ROOM
3547
NONE
3547
See architectural drawings.
GARDEN PLOTS
877
2715*
877
See G0.04 and G0.05 for
sun/shade studies.
OUTDOOR TABLE TENNIS
187
3 TABLES
187
TOTAL
9789
*MAXIMUM AREAS BASED ON 181 UNITS
MINIMUM PARK SPACE NEEDED: 8,233 sf
PARK SPACE PROVIDED:  9,789 sf
SWIMMING POOL AREA
1.
POOL IS TOTALLY FENCED.
2.
POOL DECK IS INCLUDED AT NO MORE THAN  2 X THE WATER
SURFACE AREA.
3.
ACTUAL POOL WATER DIMENSION IS NOT LESS THAN 15’ IN
SMALLEST HORIZONTAL DIMENSION. POOL DECK INCLUDES THE
SPA AREA.
RECREATION BUILDING
1.
SIZE INCLUDES HALLWAY, STORAGE, LOCKER AND RESTROOM
FACILITIES THAT SERVE NO OTHER USE THAN RECREATION
PURPOSES THAT TAKE PLACE WITHIN THE ROOM AT NO MORE
THAN .5 X ACTUAL ACTIVITY SPACE.
2.
ACTIVITY SPACE IS NOT LESS THAN 20’ IN SMALLEST DIMENSION
AND AT LEAST 25% OR 250 SQUARE FEET OF THIS SPACE
WHICHEVER IS GREATER IS PROVIDED WITH APPROVED EXERCISE
EQUIPMENT.
3.
SEE ARCHITECTURAL FLOOR PLANS FOR OVERALL RECREATION
BUILDING SPACE LAYOUT AND ALLOCATION OF RESOURCES.
OUTDOOR EATING AREA
1.
AREA CONSISTS OF EATING TABLES INCLUDING SEATS, GRILLS,
POTABLE WATER (SINKS) , TRASH/RECYCLING FEATURES BUILD
INTO CABINETRY, AND CIRCULATION AREA.
2.
OF AT LEAST 1 SQUARE FOOT PLUS 1 SF PER 10 EATING TABLE
SEATS, TRASH AND RECYCLING CONTAINERS AND POTABLE
WATER FOR EACH AREA.
3.
GRILLING DOES NOT REQUIRE A COAL BIN.
4.
ALL FEATURES ARE FIXED IN PLACE.
5.
ALL TABLES ARE WITHIN 50’ OF GRILLING AREA & NOT SEPARATED
BY GATES.
6.
AT LEAST 50% OF THE EATING TABLES ARE DESIGNED TO INCLUDE
PROVISIONS FOR SUN PROTECTION (BUILDINGS AND SHADE
TRELLIS). SEE SHEET G0.05 FOR SHADE STUDY.
OUTDOOR SEATING AREA
1.
SEATING AREA INCLUDES SEAT WALLS, FIXED CHAIRS AND FIXED
LOUNGERS.  NO PICNIC TABLES ARE PROVIDED.
2.
AT LEAST 50% OF THE EATING TABLES ARE DESIGNED TO INCLUDE
PROVISIONS FOR SUN PROTECTION (BUILDINGS, TREES, AND
SHADE TRELLIS). SEE SHEETS G0.04 AND G0.05 FOR SHADE
STUDIES.
GARDEN PLOTS
1.
ALL PLANT BEDS ARE A 12” MINIMUM HEIGHT RAISED AND RETAINED
PLANTING BEDS WITH IMPORT TOPSOIL SCREENED FREE OF
ROCKS. SIZE IS 24" X 5'. ALL SIZES ARE EQUAL.
2.
 WORK BENCH IS 5’ LONG X 2.5’ WIDE. 1 PER AREA.
3.
GROUND FLOOR TOOL LOCKER WILL BE A SPACE DEDICATED
INSIDE THE BUILDING. SEE ARCHITECTURAL PLANS. ROOF TOOL
LOCKER IS FREESTANDING: 6’ TALL X 1’ DEEP X 3’ WIDE.
4.
MULCH BIN/AREA IS 4’ X 5’.
5.
ONE TRASH CONTAINER IS PROVIDED PER AREA.
6.
HOSE BIB(S) WILL BE PROVIDED AS PART OF THE IRRIGATION
SYSTEM WITH EACH BED GROUPING HAVING A DEDICATED HOSE
BIB.
7.
THE GARDEN PLOTS RECEIVE A MINIMUM OF 3 HOURS OF FULL SUN
DURING THE HOURS OF 9 AM TO 5PM AT THE MARCH EQUINOX AND
SEPTEMBER EQUINOX. SEE SHEETS G0.04 AND G0.05 FOR SUN
STUDIES.
TABLE TENNIS
1.
TABLE TENNIS HAS REGULATION SIZE TABLE MEASURING 5’ WIDE
AND 9’ LONG AND REQUIRED UNIMPEDED PLAYABLE SPACE OF 11’ X
17’ FEET LONG.
DN
POOL FENCE
 SEATING AREA
AMENITY/GYM
2,044 sf
POOL DECK
1,899 sf
POOL
1,288 sf
SPA
OUTDOOR SEATING
1,287 sf
GARDEN PLOTS
437 sf
 SEATING AREA
TABLE
TENNIS
187 sf
LOUNGE
SEATING
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN: WP/NV
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
11/03/2025
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
CHECKED: JB
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
350 SE Mill Street   Suite 02
Portland, OR 97214
0
SCALE 1"=10'
0
5
30
50FT
0
20
0
10
08-31-26
11-04-25
L-112
PARK CREDIT EXHIBIT
LEVEL 2
SCALE: 1" = 10'-0"
LEVEL 02 TERRACE
1
L-112

--- page 67 ---
OUTDOOR EATING
367 sf
GARDEN PLOTS
440 sf
OUTDOOR EATING
415 sf
RECREATION BLDG
1503 sf
BBQ, TYP
BBQ
OVERHEAD CANOPY
DINING TABLE/CHAIRS
TABLES/CHAIRS
TRASH
SINK
OVERHEAD
CANOPY
TOOL LOCKER
WORK BENCH
MULCH BIN
TRASH
SINK
PARK SPACE SUMMARY
SYM
FACILITY TYPE
AREA
PROVIDED (SF)
MAX
ALLOWABLE
AREA (SF)
FINAL
CALCULATED
AREA
NOTES
OUTDOOR SEATING AREA
1,287
1267*
1267
See G0.04 and G0.05 for
sun/shade studies.
OUTDOOR EATING AREA
782
724*
724
See G0.04 and G0.05 for
sun/shade studies.
SWIMMING POOL AREA
3187
NONE
3187
POOL AREA=1288 SF
RECREATIONAL BUILDING/ROOM
3547
NONE
3547
See architectural drawings.
GARDEN PLOTS
877
2715*
877
See G0.04 and G0.05 for
sun/shade studies.
OUTDOOR TABLE TENNIS
187
3 TABLES
187
TOTAL
9789
*MAXIMUM AREAS BASED ON 181 UNITS
MINIMUM PARK SPACE NEEDED: 8,233 sf
PARK SPACE PROVIDED:  9,789 sf
SWIMMING POOL AREA
1.
POOL IS TOTALLY FENCED.
2.
POOL DECK IS INCLUDED AT NO MORE THAN  2 X THE WATER
SURFACE AREA.
3.
ACTUAL POOL WATER DIMENSION IS NOT LESS THAN 15’ IN
SMALLEST HORIZONTAL DIMENSION. POOL DECK INCLUDES THE
SPA AREA.
RECREATION BUILDING
1.
SIZE INCLUDES HALLWAY, STORAGE, LOCKER AND RESTROOM
FACILITIES THAT SERVE NO OTHER USE THAN RECREATION
PURPOSES THAT TAKE PLACE WITHIN THE ROOM AT NO MORE
THAN .5 X ACTUAL ACTIVITY SPACE.
2.
ACTIVITY SPACE IS NOT LESS THAN 20’ IN SMALLEST DIMENSION
AND AT LEAST 25% OR 250 SQUARE FEET OF THIS SPACE
WHICHEVER IS GREATER IS PROVIDED WITH APPROVED EXERCISE
EQUIPMENT.
3.
SEE ARCHITECTURAL FLOOR PLANS FOR OVERALL RECREATION
BUILDING SPACE LAYOUT AND ALLOCATION OF RESOURCES.
OUTDOOR EATING AREA
1.
AREA CONSISTS OF EATING TABLES INCLUDING SEATS, GRILLS,
POTABLE WATER (SINKS) , TRASH/RECYCLING FEATURES BUILD
INTO CABINETRY, AND CIRCULATION AREA.
2.
OF AT LEAST 1 SQUARE FOOT PLUS 1 SF PER 10 EATING TABLE
SEATS, TRASH AND RECYCLING CONTAINERS AND POTABLE
WATER FOR EACH AREA.
3.
GRILLING DOES NOT REQUIRE A COAL BIN.
4.
ALL FEATURES ARE FIXED IN PLACE.
5.
ALL TABLES ARE WITHIN 50’ OF GRILLING AREA & NOT SEPARATED
BY GATES.
6.
AT LEAST 50% OF THE EATING TABLES ARE DESIGNED TO INCLUDE
PROVISIONS FOR SUN PROTECTION (BUILDINGS AND SHADE
TRELLIS). SEE SHEET G0.05 FOR SHADE STUDY.
OUTDOOR SEATING AREA
1.
SEATING AREA INCLUDES SEAT WALLS, FIXED CHAIRS AND FIXED
LOUNGERS.  NO PICNIC TABLES ARE PROVIDED.
2.
AT LEAST 50% OF THE EATING TABLES ARE DESIGNED TO INCLUDE
PROVISIONS FOR SUN PROTECTION (BUILDINGS, TREES, AND
SHADE TRELLIS). SEE SHEETS G0.04 AND G0.05 FOR SHADE
STUDIES.
GARDEN PLOTS
1.
ALL PLANT BEDS ARE A 12” MINIMUM HEIGHT RAISED AND RETAINED
PLANTING BEDS WITH IMPORT TOPSOIL SCREENED FREE OF
ROCKS. SIZE IS 24" X 5'. ALL SIZES ARE EQUAL.
2.
 WORK BENCH IS 5’ LONG X 2.5’ WIDE. 1 PER AREA.
3.
GROUND FLOOR TOOL LOCKER WILL BE A SPACE DEDICATED
INSIDE THE BUILDING. SEE ARCHITECTURAL PLANS. ROOF TOOL
LOCKER IS FREESTANDING: 6’ TALL X 1’ DEEP X 3’ WIDE.
4.
MULCH BIN/AREA IS 4’ X 5’.
5.
ONE TRASH CONTAINER IS PROVIDED PER AREA.
6.
HOSE BIB(S) WILL BE PROVIDED AS PART OF THE IRRIGATION
SYSTEM WITH EACH BED GROUPING HAVING A DEDICATED HOSE
BIB.
7.
THE GARDEN PLOTS RECEIVE A MINIMUM OF 3 HOURS OF FULL SUN
DURING THE HOURS OF 9 AM TO 5PM AT THE MARCH EQUINOX AND
SEPTEMBER EQUINOX. SEE SHEETS G0.04 AND G0.05 FOR SUN
STUDIES.
TABLE TENNIS
1.
TABLE TENNIS HAS REGULATION SIZE TABLE MEASURING 5’ WIDE
AND 9’ LONG AND REQUIRED UNIMPEDED PLAYABLE SPACE OF 11’ X
17’ FEET LONG.
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN: WP/NV
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
11/03/2025
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
CHECKED: JB
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
350 SE Mill Street   Suite 02
Portland, OR 97214
0
SCALE 1"=10'
0
5
30
50FT
0
20
0
10
08-31-26
11-04-25
L-116
PARK CREDIT EXHIBIT
LEVEL 6
SCALE: 1" = 10'-0"
LEVEL 06 TERRACE
1
L-112

--- page 68 ---
V
V
V
V
STATE ST
N SAN MATEO
(8) PIS KEI
(3) AFR GRA
(2) LAU NOB
ROOT ZONE
OF EXISTING
TREE
ROOT ZONE
OF EXISTING
TREE
SHRUBS, PERENNIALS, AND GROUNDCOVERS
SYMBOL
SPECIES
QTY
SIZE
WUCOLS
EXPOSURE
STORMWATER PLANTING
747 SF
CORNUS SERICEA 'KELSEYI' / KELSEY'S DWARF RED TWIG DOGWOOD
5 GAL.
HIGH
SUN/SHADE
EQUISETUM HYEMALE / HORSETAIL
1 GAL.
HIGH
SUN/SHADE
IRIS DOUGLASIANA / DOUGLAS IRIS
4"
MODERATE
SUN/SHADE
JUNCUS PATENS 'ELK BLUE' / SPREADING RUSH
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN/SHADE
LIRIOPE MUSCARI 'MAJESTIC' / MAJESTIC LILYTURF
4"
MODERATE
SUN/SHADE
STREETSCAPE PLANTING
4,996 SF
AGAVE ATTENUATA / FOXTAIL AGAVE
5 GAL.
LOW
SUN
ANIGOZANTHOS X 'YELLOW GEM' / YELLOW GEM KANGAROO PAW
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS UVA-URSI / KINNIKINNICK
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN/SHADE
BERBERIS EURYBRACTEATA 'SOFT CARESS' / SOFT CARESS MAHONIA
5 GAL.
LOW
SUN/SHADE
BOUTELOUA GRACILIS 'BLONDE AMBITION' / BLONDE AMBITION BLUE GRAMA
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN
BULBINE FRUTESCENS 'ORANGE' / ORANGE BULBINE
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN/SHADE
DIANELLA CAERULEA 'DCNC0' / BECCA™ FLAX LILY
1 GAL.
MODERATE
SHADE
DIANELLA REVOLUTA 'DR5000' / LITTLE REV™ FLAX LILY
1 GAL.
MODERATE
SUN/SHADE
DIETES X 'NOLA ALBA' / KATRINA® AFRICAN IRIS
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN
GREVILLEA X 'NOELLII' / NOEL GREVILLEA
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN
LOMANDRA LONGIFOLIA 'LM300' / BREEZE™ MAT RUSH
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN/SHADE
PEROVSKIA ATRIPLICIFOLIA 'LISSLITT' / LACEY BLUE RUSSIAN SAGE
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN
SALVIA LEUCANTHA 'SANTA BARBARA' / SANTA BARBARA MEXICAN BUSH SAGE
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN
SARCOCOCCA RUSCIFOLIA / FRAGRANT SWEETBOX
5 GAL.
LOW
SUN/SHADE
SENECIO TALINOIDES MANDRALISCAE / BLUE CHALK STICKS
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN
WESTRINGIA FRUTICOSA 'WES06' / LOW HORIZON™ COAST ROSEMARY
5 GAL.
LOW
SUN
PLANT SCHEDULE : LEVEL 1
TREES
SYMBOL
CODE
BOTANICAL NAME
COMMON NAME
QTY
BOX SIZE
WUCOLS
TREES
AFR GRA
AFROCARPUS GRACILIOR
AFRICAN FERN PINE
3
36" BOX
MODERATE
LAU NOB
LAURUS NOBILIS 'SARATOGA'
SARATOGA BAY LAUREL
4
36" BOX
LOW
OLE SWA
OLEA EUROPAEA 'SWAN HILL'
SWAN HILL FRUITLESS OLIVE
3
36" BOX
LOW
PIS KEI
PISTACIA CHINENSIS 'KEITH DAVEY'
KEITH DAVEY CHINESE PISTACHE
15
36" BOX
LOW
1.
THE MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE SOIL WEIGHT FOR SOILS PLACED ON-STRUCTURE FOR THIS PROJECT IS 100 LBS/C.F.
SATURATED.
2.
ALL PLANTING AREAS TO BE IRRIGATED USING FULLY AUTOMATED DRIP IRRIGATION.
3.
PROVIDE 3-INCH DEPTH ORGANIC COMPOST MULCH AT ALL PLANTING AREAS, EXCEPT WHERE NOTED.
4.
WITHIN THE TRAFFIC SAFETY VISIBILITY TRIANGLES, ALL PLANTINGS (SHRUBS, BUSHES OR HEDGES) SHALL
MAINTAIN 3' MAXIMUM HEIGHT AND TREES SHALL HAVE 7' MIN. CLEAR TREE CANOPY PER THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
TRAFFIC SAFETY VISIBILITY AREA DESIGN GUIDELINES AND SIDE STREET/DRIVEWAY TRIANGLE OF SAFETY DESIGN
GUIDELINES.
5.
STREET TREES SHALL BE PLANTED A MINIMUM OF 10' FROM SANITARY SEWER LINES AND 5' FROM WATER LINES,
FIRE LINES, AND DRIVEWAYS.
GENERAL NOTES
1.
A MINIMUM 3” LAYER OF MULCH SHALL BE APPLIED ON ALL EXPOSED SOIL SURFACES OF PLANTING AREAS IN
ORDER TO PREVENT EVAPORATIVE WATER LOSS FROM EXPOSED SOIL, EXCEPT IN AREAS OF DIRECT SEEDING
APPLICATION (E.G., HYDROSEED).
2.
ORGANIC MULCH MATERIALS MADE FROM RECYCLED OR POSTCONSUMER SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER
INORGANIC MATERIALS OR VIRGIN FOREST PROJECTS UNLESS THE RECYCLED POSTCONSUMER ORGANIC
PRODUCTS ARE NOT LOCALLY AVAILABLE. ORGANIC MULCHES ARE NOT REQUIRED WHERE PROHIBITED BY LOCAL
FUEL MODIFICATION PLAN GUIDELINES OR OTHER APPLICABLE LOCAL ORDINANCES.
3.
PRIOR TO THE PLANTING OF ANY MATERIALS, COMPACTED SOILS SHALL BE TRANSFORMED TO A FRIABLE
CONDITION. ON ENGINEERED SLOPES, ONLY AMENDED PLANTING HOLES NEED MEET THIS REQUIREMENT.
4.
FOR LANDSCAPE INSTALLATIONS, COMPOST AT A RATE OF A MINIMUM OF FOUR CUBIC YARDS PER 1,000 SQUARE
FEET OF PERMEABLE AREA SHALL BE INCORPORATED TO A DEPTH OF 6” INTO THE SOIL. SOILS WITH GREATER
THAN 6 PERCENT ORGANIC MATTER IN THE TOP 6” OF SOIL ARE EXEMPT FROM ADDING COMPOST AND TILLING.
WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS NOTES
PLANTING NOTES
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN: WP/NV
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
11/03/2025
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
CHECKED: JB
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
350 SE Mill Street   Suite 02
Portland, OR 97214
0
SCALE 1"=10'
0
5
30
50FT
0
20
0
10
08-31-26
11-04-25
L-151A
PLANTING PLAN
LEVEL1A
SEE SHEET L-101B

--- page 69 ---
RAMP DN
VILLA TERRACE
N SAN MATEO
(2) LAU NOB
(3) OLE SWA
(7) PIS KEI
SHRUBS, PERENNIALS, AND GROUNDCOVERS
SYMBOL
SPECIES
QTY
SIZE
WUCOLS
EXPOSURE
STORMWATER PLANTING
747 SF
CORNUS SERICEA 'KELSEYI' / KELSEY'S DWARF RED TWIG DOGWOOD
5 GAL.
HIGH
SUN/SHADE
EQUISETUM HYEMALE / HORSETAIL
1 GAL.
HIGH
SUN/SHADE
IRIS DOUGLASIANA / DOUGLAS IRIS
4"
MODERATE
SUN/SHADE
JUNCUS PATENS 'ELK BLUE' / SPREADING RUSH
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN/SHADE
LIRIOPE MUSCARI 'MAJESTIC' / MAJESTIC LILYTURF
4"
MODERATE
SUN/SHADE
STREETSCAPE PLANTING
4,996 SF
AGAVE ATTENUATA / FOXTAIL AGAVE
5 GAL.
LOW
SUN
ANIGOZANTHOS X 'YELLOW GEM' / YELLOW GEM KANGAROO PAW
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS UVA-URSI / KINNIKINNICK
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN/SHADE
BERBERIS EURYBRACTEATA 'SOFT CARESS' / SOFT CARESS MAHONIA
5 GAL.
LOW
SUN/SHADE
BOUTELOUA GRACILIS 'BLONDE AMBITION' / BLONDE AMBITION BLUE GRAMA
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN
BULBINE FRUTESCENS 'ORANGE' / ORANGE BULBINE
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN/SHADE
DIANELLA CAERULEA 'DCNC0' / BECCA™ FLAX LILY
1 GAL.
MODERATE
SHADE
DIANELLA REVOLUTA 'DR5000' / LITTLE REV™ FLAX LILY
1 GAL.
MODERATE
SUN/SHADE
DIETES X 'NOLA ALBA' / KATRINA® AFRICAN IRIS
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN
GREVILLEA X 'NOELLII' / NOEL GREVILLEA
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN
LOMANDRA LONGIFOLIA 'LM300' / BREEZE™ MAT RUSH
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN/SHADE
PEROVSKIA ATRIPLICIFOLIA 'LISSLITT' / LACEY BLUE RUSSIAN SAGE
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN
SALVIA LEUCANTHA 'SANTA BARBARA' / SANTA BARBARA MEXICAN BUSH SAGE
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN
SARCOCOCCA RUSCIFOLIA / FRAGRANT SWEETBOX
5 GAL.
LOW
SUN/SHADE
SENECIO TALINOIDES MANDRALISCAE / BLUE CHALK STICKS
1 GAL.
LOW
SUN
WESTRINGIA FRUTICOSA 'WES06' / LOW HORIZON™ COAST ROSEMARY
5 GAL.
LOW
SUN
PLANT SCHEDULE : LEVEL 1
TREES
SYMBOL
CODE
BOTANICAL NAME
COMMON NAME
QTY
BOX SIZE
WUCOLS
TREES
AFR GRA
AFROCARPUS GRACILIOR
AFRICAN FERN PINE
3
36" BOX
MODERATE
LAU NOB
LAURUS NOBILIS 'SARATOGA'
SARATOGA BAY LAUREL
4
36" BOX
LOW
OLE SWA
OLEA EUROPAEA 'SWAN HILL'
SWAN HILL FRUITLESS OLIVE
3
36" BOX
LOW
PIS KEI
PISTACIA CHINENSIS 'KEITH DAVEY'
KEITH DAVEY CHINESE PISTACHE
15
36" BOX
LOW
1.
THE MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE SOIL WEIGHT FOR SOILS PLACED ON-STRUCTURE FOR THIS PROJECT IS 100 LBS/C.F.
SATURATED.
2.
ALL PLANTING AREAS TO BE IRRIGATED USING FULLY AUTOMATED DRIP IRRIGATION.
3.
PROVIDE 3-INCH DEPTH ORGANIC COMPOST MULCH AT ALL PLANTING AREAS, EXCEPT WHERE NOTED.
4.
WITHIN THE TRAFFIC SAFETY VISIBILITY TRIANGLES, ALL PLANTINGS (SHRUBS, BUSHES OR HEDGES) SHALL
MAINTAIN 3' MAXIMUM HEIGHT AND TREES SHALL HAVE 7' MIN. CLEAR TREE CANOPY PER THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
TRAFFIC SAFETY VISIBILITY AREA DESIGN GUIDELINES AND SIDE STREET/DRIVEWAY TRIANGLE OF SAFETY DESIGN
GUIDELINES.
5.
STREET TREES SHALL BE PLANTED A MINIMUM OF 10' FROM SANITARY SEWER LINES AND 5' FROM WATER LINES,
FIRE LINES, AND DRIVEWAYS.
GENERAL NOTES
1.
A MINIMUM 3” LAYER OF MULCH SHALL BE APPLIED ON ALL EXPOSED SOIL SURFACES OF PLANTING AREAS IN
ORDER TO PREVENT EVAPORATIVE WATER LOSS FROM EXPOSED SOIL, EXCEPT IN AREAS OF DIRECT SEEDING
APPLICATION (E.G., HYDROSEED).
2.
ORGANIC MULCH MATERIALS MADE FROM RECYCLED OR POSTCONSUMER SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER
INORGANIC MATERIALS OR VIRGIN FOREST PROJECTS UNLESS THE RECYCLED POSTCONSUMER ORGANIC
PRODUCTS ARE NOT LOCALLY AVAILABLE. ORGANIC MULCHES ARE NOT REQUIRED WHERE PROHIBITED BY LOCAL
FUEL MODIFICATION PLAN GUIDELINES OR OTHER APPLICABLE LOCAL ORDINANCES.
3.
PRIOR TO THE PLANTING OF ANY MATERIALS, COMPACTED SOILS SHALL BE TRANSFORMED TO A FRIABLE
CONDITION. ON ENGINEERED SLOPES, ONLY AMENDED PLANTING HOLES NEED MEET THIS REQUIREMENT.
4.
FOR LANDSCAPE INSTALLATIONS, COMPOST AT A RATE OF A MINIMUM OF FOUR CUBIC YARDS PER 1,000 SQUARE
FEET OF PERMEABLE AREA SHALL BE INCORPORATED TO A DEPTH OF 6” INTO THE SOIL. SOILS WITH GREATER
THAN 6 PERCENT ORGANIC MATTER IN THE TOP 6” OF SOIL ARE EXEMPT FROM ADDING COMPOST AND TILLING.
WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS NOTES
PLANTING NOTES
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN: WP/NV
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
11/03/2025
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
CHECKED: JB
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
350 SE Mill Street   Suite 02
Portland, OR 97214
0
SCALE 1"=10'
0
5
30
50FT
0
20
0
10
08-31-26
11-04-25
L-151B
PLANTING PLAN
LEVEL 1B
SEE SHEET L-151A

--- page 70 ---
DN
TREES
SYMBOL
BOTANICAL NAME
COMMON NAME
QTY
CALIPER
WUCOLS
TREES
AFROCARPUS GRACILIOR
AFRICAN FERN PINE
6
24" BOX
MODERATE
ARBUTUS X 'MARINA'
MARINA STRAWBERRY TREE STANDARD
4
24" BOX
LOW
CERCIDIUM X 'DESERT MUSEUM'
DESERT MUSEUM PALO VERDE
2
24" BOX
LOW
CERCIS OCCIDENTALIS
WESTERN REDBUD
1
24" BOX
LOW
CHAMAEROPS HUMILIS
MEDITERRANEAN FAN PALM
1
24" BOX
LOW
CORDYLINE AUSTRALIS
GRASS PALM
2
24" BOX
LOW
CUPRESSUS SEMPERVIRENS 'MONSHEL'
TINY TOWER® ITALIAN CYPRESS
1
24" BOX
LOW
DICKSONIA ANTARCTICA
TASMANIAN TREE FERN
3
24" BOX
LOW
FICUS MICROCARPA
INDIAN LAUREL FIG
1
24" BOX
MODERATE
MAGNOLIA GRANDIFLORA 'LITTLE GEM'
LITTLE GEM DWARF SOUTHERN MAGNOLIA
1
24" BOX
MODERATE
MAGNOLIA VIRGINIANA
SWEETBAY MAGNOLIA
1
24" BOX
LOW
OLEA EUROPAEA 'SWAN HILL'
SWAN HILL FRUITLESS OLIVE
1
24" BOX
LOW
PLANT SCHEDULE : LEVEL 2
SHRUBS, PERENNIALS, & GROUNDCOVERS
SYMBOL
SPECIES
QTY
SIZE
WUCOLS
STORMWATER PLANTING
1,523 SF
CORNUS SERICEA 'KELSEYI' / KELSEY'S DWARF RED TWIG DOGWOOD
5 GAL.
HGH
EQUISETUM HYEMALE / HORSETAIL
1 GAL.
HIGH
IRIS DOUGLASIANA / DOUGLAS IRIS
4" POT
MODERATE
JUNCUS PATENS 'ELK BLUE' / SPREADING RUSH
1 GAL.
LOW
LIRIOPE MUSCARI 'MAJESTIC' / MAJESTIC LILYTURF
4" POT
MODERATE
FULL SUN : SHRUBS, PERENNIALS, & GROUNDCOVERS
1,830 SF
ACACIA COGNATA 'ACCOG01' / COUSIN ITT LITTLE RIVER WATTLE
5 GAL.
LOW
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM / COMMON YARROW
1 GAL.
LOW
ANIGOZANTHOS X 'YELLOW GEM' / YELLOW GEM KANGAROO PAW
1 GAL.
LOW
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS DENSIFLORA 'HOWARD MCMINN' / HOWARD MCMINN VINE HILL MANZANITA
1 GAL.
LOW
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS UVA-URSI / KINNIKINNICK
1 GAL.
LOW
BOUTELOUA GRACILIS 'BLONDE AMBITION' / BLONDE AMBITION BLUE GRAMA
1 GAL.
LOW
CEANOTHUS GLORIOSUS 'ANCHOR BAY' / ANCHOR BAY POINT REYES CEANOTHUS
1 GAL.
LOW
CEANOTHUS GRISEUS HORIZONTALIS 'DIAMOND HEIGHTS' / DIAMOND HEIGHTS CARMEL CREEPER
1 GAL.
LOW
DIANELLA REVOLUTA 'DR5000' / LITTLE REV™ FLAX LILY
1 GAL.
MODERATE
DIETES X 'NOLA ALBA' / KATRINA® AFRICAN IRIS
1 GAL.
LOW
ELEGIA ELEPHANTINA / LARGE CAPE RUSH
1 GAL.
LOW
EUPHORBIA CHARACIAS WULFENII / EVERGREEN SPURGE
1 GAL.
LOW
FESTUCA GLAUCA 'ELIJAH BLUE' / ELIJAH BLUE FESCUE
1 GAL.
LOW
FESTUCA MAIREI / ATLAS FESCUE
1 GAL.
LOW
GREVILLEA LANIGERA / WOOLY GREVILLEA
1 GAL.
LOW
GREVILLEA X 'NOELLII' / NOEL GREVILLEA
1 GAL.
LOW
LANTANA MONTEVIDENSIS / PURPLE TRAILING LANTANA
1 GAL.
LOW
LANTANA X 'NEW GOLD' / NEW GOLD LANTANA
1 GAL.
LOW
LOMANDRA LONGIFOLIA 'LM300' / BREEZE™ MAT RUSH
1 GAL.
LOW
OLEA EUROPAEA 'MONTRA' / LITTLE OLLIE® OLIVE
1 GAL.
LOW
PEROVSKIA ATRIPLICIFOLIA 'LISSLITT' / LACEY BLUE RUSSIAN SAGE
1 GAL.
LOW
SALVIA CHAMAEDRYOIDES / GERMANDER SAGE
1 GAL.
LOW
SALVIA CLEVELANDII 'WINNIFRED GILMAN' / WINNIFRED GILMAN CLEVELAND SAGE
1 GAL.
LOW
SALVIA LEUCANTHA 'SANTA BARBARA' / SANTA BARBARA MEXICAN BUSH SAGE
1 GAL.
LOW
SANTOLINA CHAMAECYPARISSUS / LAVENDER COTTON
1 GAL.
LOW
STRELITZIA REGINAE / BIRD OF PARADISE
5 GAL.
MODERATE
WESTRINGIA FRUTICOSA 'WES06' / LOW HORIZON™ COAST ROSEMARY
1 GAL.
LOW
SHADE : SHRUBS, PERENNIALS, & GROUNDCOVERS
2,820 SF
ASPARAGUS DENSIFLORUS 'MYERS' / MYERS ASPARAGUS FERN
1 GAL.
MODERATE
ASPIDISTRA ELATIOR / CAST IRON PLANT
1 GAL.
MODERATE
BERBERIS EURYBRACTEATA 'SOFT CARESS' / SOFT CARESS MAHONIA
5 GAL.
LOW
CAREX DIVULSA / EUROPEAN GREY SEDGE
1 GAL.
LOW
CHONDROPETALUM ELEPHANTINUM / LARGE CAPE RUSH
1 GAL.
MODERATE
DAPHNE ODORA / WINTER DAPHNE
1 GAL.
MODERATE
DIANELLA CAERULEA 'DCNC0' / BECCA™ FLAX LILY
1 GAL.
MODERATE
DIANELLA TASMANICA 'VARIEGATA' / VARIEGATED FLAX LILY
1 GAL.
MODERATE
LIRIOPE MUSCARI 'MAJESTIC' / MAJESTIC LILYTURF
1 GAL.
MODERATE
PHILODENDRON X 'DANADU' / DANADU CUT-LEAF PHILODENDRON
1 GAL.
MODERATE
PITTOSPORUM TENUIFOLIUM 'SILVER SHEEN' / SILVER SHEEN TAWHIWHI
1 GAL.
MODERATE
PYRROSIA X 'MONBRTS' / JURASSIC™ BRONTOSAURUS TONGUE FERN
1 GAL.
MODERATE
SARCOCOCCA HOOKERIANA HUMILIS / TRAILING SWEETBOX
1 GAL.
LOW
SARCOCOCCA RUSCIFOLIA / FRAGRANT SWEETBOX
5 GAL.
LOW
VIBURNUM AWABUKI 'CHINDO' / CHINDO SWEET VIBURNUM
1 GAL.
MODERATE
WOODWARDIA FIMBRIATA / GIANT CHAIN FERN
1 GAL.
MODERATE
SUCCULENTS
61 SF
AGAVE ATTENUATA / FOXTAIL AGAVE
5 GAL.
LOW
AGAVE BRACTEOSA 'CALAMAR' / CALAMAR SPIDER AGAVE
1 GAL.
LOW
AGAVE VILMORINIANA / OCTOPUS AGAVE
5 GAL.
LOW
ALOE X 'LEO 3711' / SUPER RED® ALOE
1 GAL.
LOW
BULBINE FRUTESCENS 'ORANGE' / ORANGE BULBINE
1 GAL.
LOW
DASYLIRION WHEELERI / GREY DESERT SPOON
5 GAL.
LOW
HESPERALOE PARVIFLORA 'PERPA' / BRAKELIGHTS® RED YUCCA
1 GAL.
LOW
SENECIO TALINOIDES MANDRALISCAE / BLUE CHALK STICKS
1 GAL.
LOW
YUCCA GLORIOSA TRISTIS 'WALBRISTAR' / BRIGHT STAR SOFT LEAF YUCCA
1 GAL.
LOW
YUCCA ROSTRATA / BEAKED YUCCA
5 GAL.
LOW
X MANGAVE X 'NAVAJO PRINCESS' / NAVAJO PRINCESS MANGAVE
1 GAL.
LOW
OTHER
70 SF
VEGETABLE PLANTERS
SPECIES TBD PER OWNER
N/A
N/A
1.
SEE SHEETS L-151A AND L-151B FOR PLANTING NOTES.
NOTES
SYMBOL
SPECIES
QTY
SIZE
WUCOLS
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN: WP/NV
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
11/03/2025
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
CHECKED: JB
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
350 SE Mill Street   Suite 02
Portland, OR 97214
0
SCALE 1"=10'
0
5
30
50FT
0
20
0
10
08-31-26
11-04-25
L-152
PLANTING PLAN
LEVEL 2

--- page 71 ---
VEGETABLE
PLANTERS,
SPECIAL
LANDSCAPE
AREA, TYP.
TREE SCHEDULE
SYMBOL
CODE
BOTANICAL NAME
COMMON NAME
QTY
CALIPER
WUCOLS
TREES
ARB MRN
ARBUTUS X 'MARINA'
MARINA STRAWBERRY TREE STANDARD
3
24" BOX
LOW
CIT OWA
CITRUS RETICULATA 'OWARI'
OWARI SATSUMA MANDARIN ORANGE
1
24" BOX
MODERATE
CIT OXM
CITRUS X MEYERI DWARF
DWARF MEYER LEMON
2
24" BOX
MODERATE
PLANT SCHEDULE : LEVEL 6
SHRUBS, PERENNIALS, & GROUNDCOVERS
SYMBOL
SPECIES
QTY
SIZE
WUCOLS
FULL SUN : SHRUBS, PERENNIALS, & GROUNDCOVERS
288 SF
ACACIA COGNATA 'ACCOG01' / COUSIN ITT LITTLE RIVER WATTLE
5 GAL.
LOW
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM / COMMON YARROW
1 GAL.
LOW
ANIGOZANTHOS X 'YELLOW GEM' / YELLOW GEM KANGAROO PAW
1 GAL.
LOW
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS DENSIFLORA 'HOWARD MCMINN' / HOWARD MCMINN VINE HILL MANZANITA
1 GAL.
LOW
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS UVA-URSI / KINNIKINNICK
1 GAL.
LOW
BOUTELOUA GRACILIS 'BLONDE AMBITION' / BLONDE AMBITION BLUE GRAMA
1 GAL.
LOW
CEANOTHUS GLORIOSUS 'ANCHOR BAY' / ANCHOR BAY POINT REYES CEANOTHUS
1 GAL.
LOW
CEANOTHUS GRISEUS HORIZONTALIS 'DIAMOND HEIGHTS' / DIAMOND HEIGHTS CARMEL CREEPER
1 GAL.
LOW
DIANELLA REVOLUTA 'DR5000' / LITTLE REV™ FLAX LILY
1 GAL.
MODERATE
DIETES X 'NOLA ALBA' / KATRINA® AFRICAN IRIS
1 GAL.
LOW
ELEGIA ELEPHANTINA / LARGE CAPE RUSH
1 GAL.
LOW
EUPHORBIA CHARACIAS WULFENII / EVERGREEN SPURGE
1 GAL.
LOW
FESTUCA GLAUCA 'ELIJAH BLUE' / ELIJAH BLUE FESCUE
1 GAL.
LOW
FESTUCA MAIREI / ATLAS FESCUE
1 GAL.
LOW
GREVILLEA LANIGERA / WOOLY GREVILLEA
1 GAL.
LOW
GREVILLEA X 'NOELLII' / NOEL GREVILLEA
1 GAL.
LOW
LANTANA MONTEVIDENSIS / PURPLE TRAILING LANTANA
1 GAL.
LOW
LANTANA X 'NEW GOLD' / NEW GOLD LANTANA
1 GAL.
LOW
LOMANDRA LONGIFOLIA 'LM300' / BREEZE™ MAT RUSH
1 GAL.
LOW
OLEA EUROPAEA 'MONTRA' / LITTLE OLLIE® OLIVE
1 GAL.
LOW
PEROVSKIA ATRIPLICIFOLIA 'LISSLITT' / LACEY BLUE RUSSIAN SAGE
1 GAL.
LOW
SALVIA CHAMAEDRYOIDES / GERMANDER SAGE
1 GAL.
LOW
SALVIA CLEVELANDII 'WINNIFRED GILMAN' / WINNIFRED GILMAN CLEVELAND SAGE
1 GAL.
LOW
SALVIA LEUCANTHA 'SANTA BARBARA' / SANTA BARBARA MEXICAN BUSH SAGE
1 GAL.
LOW
SANTOLINA CHAMAECYPARISSUS / LAVENDER COTTON
1 GAL.
LOW
STRELITZIA REGINAE / BIRD OF PARADISE
5 GAL.
MODERATE
WESTRINGIA FRUTICOSA 'WES06' / LOW HORIZON™ COAST ROSEMARY
1 GAL.
LOW
SHADE : SHRUBS, PERENNIALS, & GROUNDCOVERS
350 SF
ASPARAGUS DENSIFLORUS 'MYERS' / MYERS ASPARAGUS FERN
1 GAL.
MODERATE
ASPIDISTRA ELATIOR / CAST IRON PLANT
1 GAL.
MODERATE
BERBERIS EURYBRACTEATA 'SOFT CARESS' / SOFT CARESS MAHONIA
5 GAL.
LOW
CAREX DIVULSA / EUROPEAN GREY SEDGE
1 GAL.
LOW
CHONDROPETALUM ELEPHANTINUM / LARGE CAPE RUSH
1 GAL.
MODERATE
DAPHNE ODORA / WINTER DAPHNE
1 GAL.
MODERATE
DIANELLA CAERULEA 'DCNC0' / BECCA™ FLAX LILY
1 GAL.
MODERATE
DIANELLA TASMANICA 'VARIEGATA' / VARIEGATED FLAX LILY
1 GAL.
MODERATE
LIRIOPE MUSCARI 'MAJESTIC' / MAJESTIC LILYTURF
1 GAL.
MODERATE
PHILODENDRON X 'DANADU' / DANADU CUT-LEAF PHILODENDRON
1 GAL.
MODERATE
PITTOSPORUM TENUIFOLIUM 'SILVER SHEEN' / SILVER SHEEN TAWHIWHI
1 GAL.
MODERATE
PYRROSIA X 'MONBRTS' / JURASSIC™ BRONTOSAURUS TONGUE FERN
1 GAL.
MODERATE
SARCOCOCCA HOOKERIANA HUMILIS / TRAILING SWEETBOX
1 GAL.
LOW
SARCOCOCCA RUSCIFOLIA / FRAGRANT SWEETBOX
5 GAL.
LOW
VIBURNUM AWABUKI 'CHINDO' / CHINDO SWEET VIBURNUM
1 GAL.
MODERATE
WOODWARDIA FIMBRIATA / GIANT CHAIN FERN
1 GAL.
MODERATE
SUCCULENTS
19 SF
AGAVE ATTENUATA / FOXTAIL AGAVE
5 GAL.
LOW
AGAVE BRACTEOSA 'CALAMAR' / CALAMAR SPIDER AGAVE
1 GAL.
LOW
AGAVE VILMORINIANA / OCTOPUS AGAVE
5 GAL.
LOW
ALOE X 'LEO 3711' / SUPER RED® ALOE
1 GAL.
LOW
BULBINE FRUTESCENS 'ORANGE' / ORANGE BULBINE
1 GAL.
LOW
DASYLIRION WHEELERI / GREY DESERT SPOON
5 GAL.
LOW
HESPERALOE PARVIFLORA 'PERPA' / BRAKELIGHTS® RED YUCCA
1 GAL.
LOW
SENECIO TALINOIDES MANDRALISCAE / BLUE CHALK STICKS
1 GAL.
LOW
YUCCA GLORIOSA TRISTIS 'WALBRISTAR' / BRIGHT STAR SOFT LEAF YUCCA
1 GAL.
LOW
YUCCA ROSTRATA / BEAKED YUCCA
5 GAL.
LOW
X MANGAVE X 'NAVAJO PRINCESS' / NAVAJO PRINCESS MANGAVE
1 GAL.
LOW
OTHER
VEGETABLE PLANTERS
SPECIES TBD PER OWNER
120 SF
N/A
N/A
SYMBOL
SPECIES
QTY
SIZE
WUCOLS
1.
SEE SHEETS L-151A AND L-151B FOR PLANTING NOTES.
NOTES
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN: WP/NV
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
11/03/2025
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
CHECKED: JB
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
350 SE Mill Street   Suite 02
Portland, OR 97214
0
SCALE 1"=10'
0
5
30
50FT
0
20
0
10
08-31-26
11-04-25
L-156
PLANTING PLAN LEVEL
6

--- page 72 ---
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN: WP/NV
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
11/03/2025
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
CHECKED: JB
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
350 SE Mill Street   Suite 02
Portland, OR 97214
08-31-26
11-04-25
L-157
PLANT PALETTE
TREES
SUN - SHRUBS, PERENNIALS, & GROUNDCOVERS

--- page 73 ---
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN: WP/NV
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
11/03/2025
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
CHECKED: JB
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
350 SE Mill Street   Suite 02
Portland, OR 97214
08-31-26
11-04-25
L-158
PLANT PALETTE
SUCCULENTS
SHADE - SHRUBS, PERENNIALS, & GROUNDCOVERS
STORMWATER

--- page 74 ---
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN: WP/NV
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
11/03/2025
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
CHECKED: JB
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
350 SE Mill Street   Suite 02
Portland, OR 97214
08-31-26
11-04-25
L-159
WUCOLS
REQUIREMENTS
PRELIMINARY WATER USE CALCULATIONS

--- page 75 ---
4'-6"
5'-0"
THROUGH-
ZONE
PLANTING/
FURNITURE
ZONE
5' PLANTING
BUILDING FACE
PROPERTY LINE
BIKE LANE
4'-6"
5'-0"
PLANTING/
FURNITURE
ZONE
5' PLANTING
BUILDING FACE
PROPERTY LINE
BIKE LANE
STOOP
THROUGH-
ZONE
10'+ STORM WATER SWALE
5' SIDEWALK
BUILDING FACE
PROPERTY LINE
PLANTING
4'-0"
5'-0"
8' PARALLEL
PARKING
BUILDING
FACE/ENTRANCE
PROPERTY LINE
BIKE LANE
8'-0"
ENTRY- ZONE
FURNISHING
ZONE
THROUGH-
ZONE
CITY
STANDARD
TREE GRATE
4'-6"
5'-0"
THROUGH-
ZONE
PLANTING
ZONE
10' LOADING
BUILDING FACE
PROPERTY LINE
2'-6"
FRONTAGE
ZONE
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN: WP/NV
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
11/03/2025
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
CHECKED: JB
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
350 SE Mill Street   Suite 02
Portland, OR 97214
08-31-26
11-04-25
L-301
SITE SECTIONS 1
1/4"=1'-0"
01
SECTION 1
section
1/4"=1'-0"
03
SECTION 3
section
1/4"=1'-0"
02
SECTION 2
section
1/4"=1'-0"
04
SECTION 4
section
1/4"=1'-0"
05
SECTION 5
section

--- page 76 ---
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025A 0.00
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
CODE ANALYSIS
ITEM
CODE RELEVANCE
APPLICABLE CODE
RESPONSE / NOTES
CODE ANALYSIS
BASEMENT
S-2
-
FLOOR 1
S-2, R-2, B
-
FLOOR 2
R-2, B, A-3
CHAPTER 3 - OCCUPANCY GROUPS
CONSTRUCTION TYPES
NONCOMBUSTIBLE CONCRETE STRUCTURE AND METAL FRAMING OF INTERIOR
BASEMENT & 1ST FLOOR
TYPE IA
HORIZONTAL BUILDING SEPARATION ALLOWANCE, 3-HOUR HORIZONTAL SEPARATION AT 2ND FLOOR
FLOOR 2-6
TYPE IIIA
2-HOUR FRTW FRAMED EXTERIOR BEARING WALLS, 1-HOUR INTERIOR WALLS SEPARATING DWELLING UNITS
3-HOUR BUILDING SEPARATION FIRE WALLS TO COMPLY WITH TOTAL ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREAS
FLOORS 3-5
R-2
FLOOR 6
R-2, B
CHAPTER 3
-
-
-
CHAPTERS 5, 6 - BLDG HEIGHT AND AREAS &
TYPES OF CONSTRUCTION
SECTIONS 510, 601, 602
SEE SHEET A 0.04 FOR FIRE SEPARATION DIAGRAMS
SEE SHEET A 0.03 FOR OCCUPANCY DIAGRAMS
TABLE 601
SECTION 510.2
TABLE 601
ALLOWABLE BUILDING HEIGHT
S WITHOUT AREA INCREASE, SEE TABLE BELOW
BASEMENT & 1ST FLOOR
TYPE IA
S WITHOUT AREA INCREASE, SEE TABLE BELOW
FLOOR 2-6
TYPE IIIA
TABLE 504.3
ALLOWABLE STORIES ABOVE GRADE PLANE
UNLIMITED ALLOWED, 1 STORY ABOVE GRADE PLANE PROPOSED
BASEMENT & 1ST FLOOR
TYPE IA
S WITHOUT AREA INCREASE, 5 STORIES ALLOWED WITH SPECIAL PROVISIONS SECTION 510.2, 5 STORIES ABOVE GRADE PLANE PROPOSED
FLOOR 2-6
TYPE IIIA
TABLE 504.4
ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA
SM WITH HEIGHT INCREASE, SEE TABLE BELOW
BASEMENT & 1ST FLOOR
TYPE IA
FLOORS 2-6
TYPE IIIA
CHAPTER 7 - FIRE PROTECTION FEATURES
ALLOWABLE OPENINGS
TABLE 705.8
ALL OPENINGS UNPROTECTED, SPRINKLERED. SEE A 0.06 FOR DIAGRAMS DEMONSTRATING COMPLIANCE WITH TABLE 705.8
CHAPTER 9 - FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
SECTION 903
FULLY SPRINKLERED BUILDING UNDER SEPARATE PERMIT
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM
CLASS III STANDPIPE SYSTEM THROUGHOUT 
STANDPIPE SYSTEM
PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM
SECTION 905
SECTION 906
SECTION 907
CHAPTER 10 - MEANS OF EGRESS
EGRESS TRAVEL
SECTIONS 1006, 1017
ALL COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL DISTANCES AND EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCES ARE WITHIN THE ALLOWABLE RANGE
INSTALLED IN REQUIRED LOCATIONS
FIRE ALARM AND SPRINKLER MONITORING THROUGHOUT, VISUAL FIRE ALARMS IN ALL ADAPTABLE UNITS
EXIT SEPARATION
SEE A 0.03 FOR EGRESS ANALYSIS DIAGRAMS
ALL FLOORS AND SEPARATED OCCUPANCIES COMPLY WITH 1/3 MIN (SPRINKLERED BUILDING) REQUIRED EXIT SEPARATION DISTANCE
CHAPTER 11 - ACCESSIBILITY
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCESSIBLE ENTRY AND EXIT PER SEC 1117A
INTERIOR ACCESSIBLE ROUTES PER SEC 1119A
CHANGES IN LEVELS ON ACCESSIBLE ROUTES PER SEC 1121A, 1131A
INTERIOR STAIRWAYS PER SEC 1123A
DOORS, GATES AND WINDOWS PER SEC 1126A
ACCESSIBLE ROUTE WITHIN COVERED MULTIFIMALY DWELLING UNITS PER SEC 1130A
DOORS PER SEC 1132A
KITCHENS PER SEC 1133A
BATHING FACILITIES PER 1134A - OPTION 2
ELECTRICAL RECEPTACLE, SWITCH AND CONTROL HEIGHTS PER SEC 1136A, 1142A
SPACE ALLOWANCES AND REACH RANGES PER SEC 1138A
SECTION 1007
SECTION 506
SEE SHEETS A 0.09-A 0.11

--- page 77 ---
PARKING
PARKING
COURTYARD
POOL
SPA
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
1" = 40'-0"
A 0.01
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
FAR AND LOT COVERAGE
1" = 40'-0"
1ST FLOOR FAR CALCULATION
1" = 40'-0"
BASEMENT FLOOR FAR CALCULATION
1" = 40'-0"
2ND FLOOR FAR CALCULATION
1" = 40'-0"
3RD, 4TH AND 5TH  FLOOR FAR CALCULATION
1" = 40'-0"
6TH FLOOR FAR CALCULATION
LEVEL
AREA
LOT AREA
FAR
LEVEL
AREA
LOT AREA
FAR
6TH FLOOR
28,307 SF
53141 SF
0.53%
LEVEL
AREA
LOT AREA
FAR
3RD FLOOR
32,416 SF
53141 SF
0.61%
4TH FLOOR
32,423 SF
53141 SF
0.61%
5TH FLOOR
32,418 SF
53141 SF
0.61%
LEVEL
AREA
LOT AREA
FAR
1ST FLOOR
47,566 SF
53141 SF
0.90%
LEVEL
AREA
LOT AREA
FAR
2ND FLOOR
31,890 SF
53141 SF
0.60%
FAR  CALCULATIONS
LEVEL
AREA
LOT AREA
FAR
1ST FLOOR
47,566 SF
53141 SF
0.90%
2ND FLOOR
31,890 SF
53141 SF
0.60%
3RD FLOOR
32,416 SF
53141 SF
0.61%
4TH FLOOR
32,423 SF
53141 SF
0.61%
5TH FLOOR
32,418 SF
53141 SF
0.61%
6TH FLOOR
28,307 SF
53141 SF
0.53%
BUILDING
TOTALS
205,020 SF
3.86%
1" = 40'-0"
LOT COVERAGE
LOT COVERAGE CALCULATION
COVERAGE AREA
LOT AREA
LOT COVERAGE
49140 SF
53141 SF
92.47%
LOT COVERAGE
FAR CALCULATIONS

--- page 78 ---
AREAS BY TYPE
AMENITY
CIRCULATION
CIRCULATION - EXTERIOR
PARKING
RESIDENTIAL UNIT
UTILITY
OUTDOOR LIVING AREAS
COMMON
PRIVATE
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
02/09/2026
1" = 40'-0"
A 0.02
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
AREA PLANS
1" = 40'-0"
AREAS BY TYPE - BASEMENT
1" = 40'-0"
AREAS BY TYPE - 1ST FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
AREAS BY TYPE - 2ND FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
AREAS BY TYPE - 3RD - 5TH FLOOR
AREA TYPE BREAKDOWN - 1ST FLOOR
AMENITY
5283 SF
CIRCULATION
3366 SF
PARKING
25002 SF
RESIDENTIAL UNIT
11537 SF
UTILITY
3952 SF
TOTAL AREA
49140 SF
1" = 40'-0"
AREAS BY TYPE - 6TH FLOOR
AREA TYPE BREAKDOWN - 3RD FLOOR
CIRCULATION
2792 SF
CIRCULATION - EXTERIOR
1766 SF
RESIDENTIAL UNIT
29954 SF
UTILITY
182 SF
TOTAL AREA
34694 SF
1" = 40'-0"
OUTDOOR LIVING AREAS - 1ST FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
OUTDOOR LIVING AREAS - 2ND FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
OUTDOOR LIVING AREAS - 3RD - 5TH FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
OUTDOOR LIVING AREAS - 6TH FLOOR
OUTDOOR LIVING AREAS - 2ND FLOOR
COMMON
16529 SF
PRIVATE
2208 SF
TOTAL OUTDOOR AREA
18737 SF
OUTDOOR LIVING AREAS - 3RD FLOOR
PRIVATE
1060 SF
TOTAL OUTDOOR AREA
1060 SF
OUTDOOR LIVING AREAS - 4TH FLOOR
PRIVATE
1074 SF
TOTAL OUTDOOR AREA
1074 SF
OUTDOOR LIVING AREAS - 5TH FLOOR
PRIVATE
1074 SF
TOTAL OUTDOOR AREA
1074 SF
OUTDOOR LIVING AREAS - 6TH FLOOR
COMMON
2474 SF
PRIVATE
2378 SF
TOTAL OUTDOOR AREA
4852 SF
OUTDOOR LIVING AREAS - 1ST FLOOR
PRIVATE
786 SF
TOTAL OUTDOOR AREA
786 SF
AREA TYPE BREAKDOWN - 4TH FLOOR
CIRCULATION
2799 SF
CIRCULATION - EXTERIOR
1767 SF
RESIDENTIAL UNIT
29955 SF
UTILITY
180 SF
TOTAL AREA
34701 SF
AREA TYPE BREAKDOWN - 5TH FLOOR
CIRCULATION
2788 SF
CIRCULATION - EXTERIOR
1764 SF
RESIDENTIAL UNIT
29961 SF
UTILITY
180 SF
TOTAL AREA
34693 SF
AREA TYPE BREAKDOWN - 2ND FLOOR
AMENITY
1983 SF
CIRCULATION
2955 SF
RESIDENTIAL UNIT
26153 SF
UTILITY
181 SF
TOTAL AREA
31272 SF
AREA TYPE BREAKDOWN - BASEMENT
CIRCULATION
1088 SF
PARKING
47446 SF
UTILITY
1478 SF
TOTAL AREA
50012 SF
AREA TYPE BREAKDOWN - 6TH FLOOR
AMENITY
835 SF
CIRCULATION
2916 SF
CIRCULATION - EXTERIOR
1960 SF
EXTERIOR COURTYARD
1442 SF
RESIDENTIAL UNIT
24855 SF
UTILITY
205 SF
TOTAL AREA
32213 SF
AREA TYPE BREAKDOWN TOTALS
AREA TYPE
AREA
%
AMENITY
8101 SF
3%
CIRCULATION
18703 SF
7%
CIRCULATION - EXTERIOR
8546 SF
3%
EXTERIOR COURTYARD
6330 SF
2%
PARKING
72448 SF
27%
RESIDENTIAL UNIT
152415 SF
56%
UTILITY
6358 SF
2%
TOTAL AREA
272902 SF
100%
OUTDOOR LIVING AREA ANALYSIS
AREA TYPE
AREA TOTAL
UNITS
PER UNIT SF
COMMON
19003 SF
181
104.99
PRIVATE
8579 SF
115
74.60
TOTALS
27583 SF
179.59

--- page 79 ---
DN
EGRESS WIDTH ANALYSIS - 2ND FLOOR
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED
44"
STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED (2 EGRESS STAIRS)
88" = 44" x 2
CORRIDOR WIDTH REQUIRED
44"
CORRIDOR WIDTH PROVIDED
60"
EGRESS DOOR WIDTH MIN REQUIRED
44"
EGRESS DOOR WIDTH PROVIDED (3 EGRESS DOORS)
108" = 36" x 3
EGRESS DOOR WIDTH OF EACH ENCLOSED SPACE OR UNIT
36" (34" MIN CLR)
EGRESS DOOR WIDTHS OF OUTDOOR SPACE
36" x 3 (EACH 34" MIN CLR)
PA
MECHANICAL 1
MECHANICAL 2
MB
PE
MA
MC
EXIT SEPARATION  
DIAGONAL DIMENSION = 362' - 2 3/4"
REQD = 120' - 9", PROVIDED =  232' - 1"
31'-0"
8'-0"
20'-0"
114'-0"
16'-8"
11'-7"
PARKING (S-2)
OCCUPANT LOAD: 124
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS REQD: 2
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS PROVIDED: 2
MAX EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE (PB - EXIT 2): 285' < 400'  
EXIT 1
EXIT 2
EXIT 3
PB
POOL
EQUIPMENT
PARKING
ELECTRIC 1
ELECTRIC 2
ELECTRIC 3
MAINTENANCE
TRASH ROOM
TRASH ROOM (S-2)
OCCUPANT LOAD: 4
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS REQD: 1
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS PROVIDED: 2 
COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 54' < 400'
ELECTRIC ROOMS 1-4 (S-2)
OCCUPANT LOAD: 1-3
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS REQD: 1
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS PROVIDED: 1 
MAX EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE:
ELECTRIC 1 
45'
ELECTRIC 2
27'
ELECTRIC 3
28'
COWORKING
LEASING
BIKE 
PARKING
RESIDENTIAL UNITS (R-2)
MAX OCCUPANT LOAD: 8
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS REQD: 1
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS PROVIDED: 1 
MAX COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE (RA-RE): 83' < 125'
MAX EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE (RA-EXIT 3): 195' < 250'
RA
RE
MAINTENANCE (S-2)
OCCUPANT LOAD: 4
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS REQD: 1
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS PROVIDED: 1
COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 91' < 100' 
BIKE PARKING (S-2)
OCCUPANT LOAD: 8
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS REQD: 1
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS PROVIDED: 1
COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 84' < 100'
MUDDY
PAWS
COWORKING (B)
OCCUPANT LOAD: 18
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS REQD: 1
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS PROVIDED: 1
COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 58' < 100' 
LEASING (B)
OCCUPANT LOAD: 7
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS REQD: 1
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS PROVIDED: 2
MAIL
MAIL (S-2)
OCCUPANT LOAD: 3
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS REQD: 1
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS PROVIDED: 1
COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 40' < 100' 
POOL EQUIPMENT (S-2)
OCCUPANT LOAD: 1
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS REQD: 1
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS PROVIDED: 1 
MAX EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE (PD - EXIT 1): 274' < 400'
RESIDENTIAL
PD
PARKING DIAGONAL DIMENSION = 273' - 7"
OVERALL DIAGONAL DIMENSION = 355' - 6 1/2"
EXIT SEPARATION  
REQD = 118' - 7", PROVIDED =  269' - 0"
PARKING EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY SEPARATION  
REQD = 91' - 3", PROVIDED =  165' - 0"
30'-6"
23'-3"
9'-5"
19'-0"
5'-6"
69'-7"
36'-10"
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
BUILDING C DIAGONAL DIMENSION = 263' - 2"
COURTYARD (A-3)
OCCUPANT LOAD: 405
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS REQD: 2
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS PROVIDED: 2
MAX EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE (AA - AB): 181' < 250'  
AA
AB
RESIDENTIAL
RESIDENTIAL UNITS (R-2)
OCCUPANT LOAD OF LARGEST UNIT: 8
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS REQD: 1
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS PROVIDED: 1 
MAX COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE BUILDING A (RQ-RS): 50' < 125'
MAX COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE BUILDING A (RB-RF): 95' < 125'
MAX COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE BUILDING B (RC-RG): 67' < 125'
RB
RF
EXERCISE ROOM (B)
OCCUPANT LOAD: 39
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS REQD: 1
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS PROVIDED: 2
EXERCISE ROOM
COURTYARD
RC
RG
AG
EXIT STAIRWAY @ 2ND FLOOR
FOR BUILDING B
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE FROM EXTERIOR STAIR TO EXIT STAIRWAY (AG-AB): 73'-4"
SEE A 0.04 FOR MEASUREMENT OF EXTERIOR STAIR
3'-11"
3'-6"
50'-10"
15'-4"
BUILDING C EXIT ACCESS SEPARATION  
REQD = 87' - 9", PROVIDED =  270' - 2"
BUILDING B EXIT SEPARATION  
REQD = 68' - 0", PROVIDED =  121' - 10"
HORIZONTAL EXIT
@ FIRE WALL
BUILDING B DIAGONAL DIMENSION = 203' - 11"
BUILDING A EXIT SEPARATION  
REQD = 55' - 0", PROVIDED =  124' - 9"
BUILDING A DIAGONAL DIMENSION = 164' - 3"
111'-0"
BUILDING B
BUILDING C
BUILDING A
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
STAIR 3
RQ
RS
HORIZONTAL EXIT
RESIDENTIAL UNITS (R-2) @ 3RD-5TH FLOORS
OCCUPANT LOAD OF LARGEST UNIT: 8
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS REQD: 1
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS PROVIDED: 1 
MAX COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE BUILDING A (RQ-RS): 50' < 125'
MAX COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE BUILDING B (RB-RF): 95' < 125'
MAX COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE BUILDING C (RC-RG): 67' < 125'
MAX EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE TO HORIZONTAL EXIT (AC-AD): 248' < 250'
MAX EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE TO EXIT @ 2ND FLOOR:
5TH FLOOR TRAVEL DISTANCE (AE-BE): 45'-7"
TRAVEL DISTANCE @ EXTERIOR STAIR FROM 5TH FL TO 2ND FL (SEE A 0.04): 105'-3"
2ND FLOOR TRAVEL DISTANCE (AG-AB): 73'-4"
45'-7" + 105'-3" + 73'-4" = 224'-2" < 250'
RB
BUILDING C DIAGONAL DIMENSION = 267' - 10"
RC
RG
SEE A 0.04 FOR MEASUREMENT 
OF TRAVEL DISTANCE 
@ EXTERIOR STAIR
AC
AD
AE
31'-4"
5'-2"
9'-2"
BE
EXIT STAIRWAY @ 2ND FLOOR
FOR BUILDING B
AB
AG
3'-11"
3'-6"
50'-10"
RF
15'-4"
BUILDING C EXIT ACCESS SEPARATION  
REQD = 89' - 4", PROVIDED =  217' - 6"
HORIZONTAL EXIT
@ FIRE WALL
BUILDING B EXIT SEPARATION  
REQD = 68' - 0", PROVIDED =  121' - 10"
BUILDING B DIAGONAL DIMENSION = 203' - 11"
BUILDING A EXIT SEPARATION  
REQD = 55' - 0", PROVIDED =  124' - 9"
BUILDING A DIAGONAL DIMENSION = 164' - 3"
31'-2"
70'-7"
7'-8"
100'-0"
38'-6"
BUILDING B
BUILDING C
BUILDING A
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
STAIR 3
RQ
RS
HORIZONTAL EXIT
RESIDENTIAL UNITS (R-2)
OCCUPANT LOAD OF LARGEST UNIT: 7
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS REQD: 1
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS PROVIDED: 1 
MAX COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE BUILDING A (RP-RR): 47' < 125'
MAX COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE BUILDING B (RD-RH): 93' < 125'
MAX COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE BUILDING C (RE-RJ): 49' < 125' 
MAX EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE (RK-RL): 212' < 250'
RD
RH
LOUNGE
LOUNGE (B)
MAX OCCUPANT LOAD: 46
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS REQD: 1
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS PROVIDED: 1
MAX COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 22' < 100'
BUILDING C DIAGONAL DIMENSION = 226' - 4"
RJ
RE
ROOF DECK
ROOF DECK (B)
MAX OCCUPANT LOAD: 49
MAX EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE (BA-STAIR 1): 227' < 300'
RK
RL
BA
BUILDING C EXIT ACCESS SEPARATION  
REQD = 75' - 6", PROVIDED =  217' - 4"
HORIZONTAL EXIT
HORIZONTAL EXIT
BUILDING B EXIT SEPARATION  
REQD = 68' - 0", PROVIDED =  121' - 10"
BUILDING B DIAGONAL DIMENSION = 203' - 11"
BUILDING A EXIT SEPARATION  
REQD = 52' - 5", PROVIDED =  124' - 9"
BUILDING A DIAGONAL DIMENSION = 157' - 1"
9'-4"
27'-11"
4'-9"
32'-3"
BUILDING B
BUILDING C
BUILDING A
99'-4"
36'-9"
RP
RR
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
STAIR 3
EGRESS WIDTH ANALYSIS - 3RD-5TH FLOOR
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED
44"
STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED (2 EGRESS STAIRS)
88" = 44" x 2
CORRIDOR WIDTH REQUIRED
44"
CORRIDOR WIDTH PROVIDED
60"
EGRESS DOOR WIDTH MIN REQUIRED
36"
EGRESS DOOR WIDTH PROVIDED (2 EGRESS DOORS)
72" = 36" x 2
EGRESS DOOR WIDTH OF EACH ENCLOSED SPACE OR UNIT
36" (34" MIN CLR)
EGRESS WIDTH ANALYSIS - BASEMENT
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED
50"
STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED (2 EGRESS STAIRS)
88" = 44" x 2
CORRIDOR WIDTH REQUIRED
N/A
CORRIDOR WIDTH PROVIDED
N/A
EGRESS DOOR WIDTH MIN REQUIRED
38"
EGRESS DOOR WIDTH PROVIDED (2 EGRESS DOORS)
72" = 36" x 2
EGRESS WIDTH ANALYSIS - 1ST FLOOR
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED
N/A
STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED
N/A
CORRIDOR WIDTH REQUIRED
44
CORRIDOR WIDTH PROVIDED
60"
EGRESS DOOR WIDTH MIN REQUIRED
38"
EGRESS DOOR WIDTH PROVIDED (3 EGRESS DOORS)
144" = 48" x 3
EGRESS DOOR WIDTH OF EACH ENCLOSED SPACE OR UNIT
36" (34" MIN CLR)
EGRESS WIDTH ANALYSIS - 6TH FLOOR 
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED
44"
STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED (2 EGRESS STAIRS)
88" = 44" x 2
CORRIDOR WIDTH REQUIRED
44"
CORRIDOR WIDTH PROVIDED
60"
EGRESS DOOR WIDTH MIN REQUIRED
36"
EGRESS DOOR WIDTH PROVIDED (2 EGRESS DOORS)
72" = 36" x 2
EGRESS DOOR WIDTH OF EACH ENCLOSED SPACE OR UNIT
36" (34" MIN CLR)
47384 SF
237
S-2 PARKING
200
610 SF
3
S-2 ACCESSORY
300
762 SF
3
S-2 ACCESSORY
300
24780 SF
124
S-2 PARKING
200
15993 SF
80
R-2 RESIDENTIAL
200
1101 SF
4
S-2 ACCESSORY
300
930 SF
4
S-2 ACCESSORY
300
657 SF
3
S-2 ACCESSORY
300
1009 SF
7
B OFFICE
150
879 SF
18
B READING ROOM
50
250 SF
1
S-2 ACCESSORY
300
190 SF
1
S-2 FIRE COMMAND
300
228 SF
1
S-2 ACCESSORY
300
339 SF
2
S-2 ACCESSORY
300
1574 SF
8
S-2 BIKE PARKING
200
1918 SF
39
B EXERCISE ROOM
50
11522 SF
58
R-2 RESIDENTIAL
200
7174 SF
36
R-2 RESIDENTIAL
200
6060 SF
405
A-3 COURT
15
BUILDING SEPARATION
FIRE WALL
9610 SF
49
R-2 RESIDENTIAL
200
BUILDING B
BUILDING C
BUILDING A
BUILDING SEPARATION
FIRE WALL
11573 SF
58
R-2 RESIDENTIAL
200
8243 SF
42
R-2 RESIDENTIAL
200
12153 SF
61
R-2 RESIDENTIAL
200
BUILDING B
BUILDING C
BUILDING A
BUILDING SEPARATION
FIRE WALL
BUILDING SEPARATION
FIRE WALL
11191 SF
56
R-2 RESIDENTIAL
200
4876 SF
25
R-2 RESIDENTIAL
200
691 SF
47
B ROOF DECK
15
688 SF
46
B SKY LOUNGE
15
509 SF
34
B ROOF DECK
15
BUILDING B
BUILDING C
11110 SF
56
R-2 RESIDENTIAL
200
BUILDING A
BUILDING SEPARATION
FIRE WALL
BUILDING SEPARATION
FIRE WALL
TYPE IIIA BUILDING COLORS
A
B
C
GROSS 
SQUARE 
FOOTAGE
OCCUPANT 
LOAD
FACTOR
OCCUPANT 
COUNT
OCCUPANCY 
TYPE
XXX
XXX
XXX
XXX
COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
OR EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
EXIT OR EXIT ACCESS
BUILDING SEPARATION LINE
ACCESSORY
ASSEMBLY
BUSINESS
FIRE COMMAND
PARKING
A
B
C
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 0.03
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
OCCUPANCY AND EGRESS
ANALYSIS
1" = 40'-0"
EGRESS PLAN - BASEMENT
1" = 40'-0"
EGRESS PLAN - 1ST FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
EGRESS PLAN - 2ND FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
EGRESS PLAN - 5TH FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
EGRESS PLAN - 6TH FLOOR
PARKING (S-2)
OCCUPANT LOAD: 237
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS REQD: 2
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS PROVIDED: 2
MAX EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE (PA - PE): 191' < 400'
EGRESS ANALYSIS
OCCUPANCY ANALYSIS
MECHANICAL 1 (S-2)
OCCUPANT LOAD: 3
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS REQD: 1
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS PROVIDED: 1
MAX EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE (MA - MC): 63' < 400'
MECHANICAL 2 (S-2)
OCCUPANT LOAD: 3
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS REQD: 1
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS PROVIDED: 1
MAX EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE (MB - PE): 202' < 400'
CODE COMPLIANCE - BASEMENT
FUNCTION OF
SPACE
CLASSIFICATION OLF
AREA
OL
CALCULATED
STAIR WIDTH
CALCULATED
EGRESS WIDTH
ACCESSORY
S-2
300
1372 SF
6
1.2
0.9
PARKING
S-2
200
47384 SF
237
47.4
35.55
FLOOR TOTALS
48756 SF
243
48.6
36.45
CODE COMPLIANCE - 1ST FLOOR
FUNCTION OF
SPACE
CLASSIFICATION
OLF
AREA
OL
CALCULATED
STAIR WIDTH
CALCULATED
EGRESS WIDTH
ACCESSORY
S-2
300
3505 SF
15
3
2.25
FIRE COMMAND
S-2
300
190 SF
1
0.2
0.15
OFFICE
B
150
1009 SF
7
1.4
1.05
PARKING
S-2
200
26353 SF
132
26.4
19.8
READING ROOM
B
50
879 SF
18
3.6
2.7
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
200
15993 SF
80
16
12
FLOOR TOTALS
47930 SF
253
50.6
37.95
CODE COMPLIANCE - 2ND FLOOR BUILDING A
FUNCTION OF
SPACE
CLASSIFICATION
OLF
AREA
OL
CALCULATED
STAIR WIDTH
CALCULATED
EGRESS WIDTH
EXERCISE
ROOM
B
50
1918 SF
39
7.8
5.85
RESIDENTIAL
200
9610 SF
49
9.8
7.35
FLOOR TOTALS
11528 SF
88
17.6
13.2
CODE COMPLIANCE - 2ND FLOOR BUILDING B
FUNCTION OF
SPACE
CLASSIFICATION
OLF
AREA
OL
CALCULATED
STAIR WIDTH
CALCULATED
EGRESS WIDTH
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
200
11522 SF
58
11.6
8.7
FLOOR TOTALS
11522 SF
58
11.6
8.7
CODE COMPLIANCE - 3RD-5TH FLOOR BUILDING A
FUNCTION OF
SPACE
CLASSIFICATION
OLF
AREA
OL
CALCULATED
STAIR WIDTH
CALCULATED
EGRESS WIDTH
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
200
12153 SF
61
12.2
9.15
FLOOR TOTALS
12153 SF
61
12.2
9.15
CODE COMPLIANCE - 3RD-5TH FLOOR BUILDING B
FUNCTION OF
SPACE
CLASSIFICATION
OLF
AREA
OL
CALCULATED
STAIR WIDTH
CALCULATED
EGRESS
WIDTH
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
200
11573 SF
58
11.6
8.7
FLOOR TOTALS
11573 SF
58
11.6
8.7
CODE COMPLIANCE - 6TH FLOOR BUILDING A
FUNCTION OF
SPACE
CLASSIFICATION
OLF
AREA
OL
CALCULATED
STAIR WIDTH
CALCULATED
EGRESS WIDTH
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
200
11110 SF
56
11.2
8.4
FLOOR TOTALS
11110 SF
56
11.2
8.4
CODE COMPLIANCE - 6TH FLOOR BUILDING B
FUNCTION OF
SPACE
CLASSIFICATION
OLF
AREA
OL
CALCULATED
STAIR WIDTH
CALCULATED
EGRESS WIDTH
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
200
11191 SF
56
11.2
8.4
FLOOR TOTALS
11191 SF
56
11.2
8.4
1" = 40'-0"
CODE COMPLIANCE PLAN - BASEMENT
1" = 40'-0"
CODE COMPLIANCE PLAN - 1ST FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
CODE COMPLIANCE PLAN - 2ND FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
CODE COMPLIANCE PLAN - 3RD-5TH FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
CODE COMPLIANCE PLAN - 6TH FLOOR
CODE COMPLIANCE - 6TH FLOOR BUILDING C
FUNCTION OF
SPACE
CLASSIFICATION
OLF
AREA
OL
CALCULATED
STAIR WIDTH
CALCULATED
EGRESS WIDTH
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
200
4876 SF
25
5
3.75
ROOF DECK
B
15
1200 SF
81
16.2
12.15
SKY LOUNGE
B
15
688 SF
46
9.2
6.9
FLOOR TOTALS
6764 SF
152
30.4
22.8
CODE COMPLIANCE - 2ND FLOOR BUILDING C
FUNCTION OF
SPACE
CLASSIFICATION
OLF
AREA
OL
CALCULATED
STAIR WIDTH
CALCULATED
EGRESS WIDTH
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
200
7174 SF
36
7.2
5.4
FLOOR TOTALS
7174 SF
36
7.2
5.4
CODE COMPLIANCE - 3RD-5TH FLOOR BUILDING C
FUNCTION OF
SPACE
CLASSIFICATION
OLF
AREA
OL
CALCULATED
STAIR WIDTH
CALCULATED
EGRESS
WIDTH
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
200
8243 SF
42
8.4
6.3
FLOOR TOTALS
8243 SF
42
8.4
6.3
BLDG A RESIDENTIAL
BLDG B RESIDENTIAL
BLDG C RESIDENTIAL

--- page 80 ---
13' - 7"
2' - 2"
7' - 2"
2' - 2"
3' - 1"
3' - 1"
7' - 2"
2' - 2"
5' - 0"
5' - 0"
5' - 0"
2' - 8"
8' - 3"
2' - 2"
2' - 8"
2' - 2"
2' - 2"
3' - 1"
8' - 3"
6' - 3"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
2' - 0"
5' - 0"
5' - 0"
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
1/4" = 1'-0"
A 0.04
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
EGRESS ANALYSIS STAIR
SECTIONS
1/4" = 1'-0"
EXTERIOR STAIR - SECTION LOOKING NORTH
1/4" = 1'-0"
EXTERIOR STAIR - SECTION LOOKING EAST
1/4" = 1'-0"
EXTERIOR STAIR - SECTION LOOKING SOUTH
1/4" = 1'-0"
EXTERIOR STAIR - SECTION LOOKING WEST
TRAVEL DISTANCE @ EXTERIOR STAIR FROM 5TH FLOOR TO 2ND FLOOR
2'-0" + 2'-8" + 8'-3" + 2'-2" + 5'-0" + 2'-2" + 7'-2" + 3'-1" + 5'-0" + 2'-8" + 8'-3" + 2'-2" + 5'-0" + 2'-2" 
+ 7'-2" + 3'-1" + 5'-0" + 3'-1" + 6'-3" + 2'-2" + 5'-0" + 2'-2" + 13'-7" 
= 105'-3" 
(TRAVEL DISTANCE @ EXTERIOR STAIR FROM 3RD-4TH FLOOR IS LESS THAN 105'-3")

--- page 81 ---
BUILDING SEPARATION
FIRE WALL
BUILDING B
BUILDING C
BUILDING A
BUILDING SEPARATION
FIRE WALL
BUILDING SEPARATION
FIRE WALL
BUILDING B
BUILDING C
BUILDING A
BUILDING SEPARATION
FIRE WALL
BUILDING SEPARATION
FIRE WALL
BUILDING B
BUILDING C
BUILDING A
BUILDING SEPARATION
FIRE WALL
FIRE RATED ASSEMBLIES
3-HR MIN RATED FIRE ASSEMBLY
2-HR MIN RATED FIRE ASSEMBLY
1-HR MIN RATED FIRE ASSEMBLY
UNRATED ASSEMBLY
3-HR MIN FIRE RATED ASSEMBLY (PODIUM - CONCRETE STRUCTURAL SLAB)
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
UNITS
PARKING
UTILITY
AMENITY
PARKING
3 HR RATED ASSEMBLIES
SURROUNDING POOL
RAMP 
DN
N. SAN MATEO DR
UNITS
UNITS
AMENITY
PARKING
COURTYARD
PARKING
BUILDING SEPARATION LINE
PROPERTY LINE
1. 
FIRE WALLS TO BE DESIGNED AND CONSTRUCTED IN 
ACCORDANCE WITH NFPA 221.
2. 
FIRE WALLS SHALL TERMINATE AT THE INTERIOR 
SURFACE OF NONCOMBUSTIBLE EXTERIOR SHEATHING 
IN ACCORDANCE WITH CBC 706.5 (EXCEPTION 3).
3. 
FIRE WALLS SHALL TERMINATE AT THE UNDERSIDE OF 
NONCOMBUSTIBLE ROOF SHEATHING IN ACCORDANCE 
WITH CBC 706.6 (EXCEPTION 3).
4. 
ALL OPENINGS IN FIRE WALLS SHALL BE PROTECTED 
IN ACCORDANCE WITH CBC 716.
FIRE SEPARATION NOTES
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 0.05
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
FIRE SEPARATION DIAGRAMS
1" = 40'-0"
FIRE SEPARATION - 2ND FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
FIRE SEPARATION - 1ST FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
FIRE SEPARATION - BASEMENT
1" = 40'-0"
FIRE SEPARATION - 3RD - 5TH FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
FIRE SEPARATION - 6TH FLOOR
FIRE SEPARATION ANALYSIS
1" = 40'-0"
FIRE RATED HORIZONTAL ASSEMBLIES
1" = 40'-0"
FIRE RATED HORIZONTAL ASSEMBLIES

--- page 82 ---
LOW GRADE
0' - 0"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
HIGH POINT
75' - 11 1/2"
NO OPENINGS AT 1ST FLOOR OR BASEMENT
22'-10" TO PL
17'-10" TO PL
24'-10" TO PL
19'-10" TO PL
5TH FLOOR 
(15' to <20' TO PL)
WALL AREA 15' to <20' 
= 1356 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 600 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 600 / 1356 = 44% < 75%
4TH FLOOR  
(15' to <20' TO PL)
WALL AREA 15' to <20' 
= 1356 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 648 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 648 / 1356 = 48% < 75%
3RD FLOOR  
(15' to <20' TO PL)
WALL AREA 15' to <20' 
= 1356 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 600 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 600 / 1356 = 44% < 75%
2ND FLOOR  
(15' to <20' TO PL)
WALL AREA 15' to <20' 
= 1819 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 720 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 720 / 1819 = 40% < 75%
NO BUILDING ACROSS FROM THIS
PORTION OF ELEVATION
6TH FLOOR 
(15' to <20' TO PL)
WALL AREA 15' to <20' 
= 491 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 144 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 144 / 493 = 29% < 75%
UNLIMITED OPENINGS ALLOWED
@ FSD OF 20' to <25' (CBC 705.8)
24'-10" TO PL
20'-6" TO PL
LOW GRADE
0' - 0"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
HIGH POINT
75' - 11 1/2"
5TH FLOOR 
(15' to <20' TO PL)
WALL AREA 15' to <20' 
= 1420 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 479 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 479 / 1420 = 34% < 75%
4TH FLOOR  
(15' to <20' TO PL)
WALL AREA 15' to <20' 
= 1420 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 479 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 479 / 1420 = 34% < 75%
3RD FLOOR  
(15' to <20' TO PL)
WALL AREA 15' to <20' 
= 1420 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 479 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 479 / 1420 = 34% < 75%
2ND FLOOR  
(15' to <20' TO PL)
WALL AREA 15' to <20' 
= 1905 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 612 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 612 / 1905 = 32% < 75%
6TH FLOOR 
(15' to <20' TO PL)
WALL AREA 15' to <20' 
= 1751 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 555 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 555 / 1751 = 32% < 75%
NO OPENINGS AT 1ST FLOOR OR BASEMENT
UNLIMITED OPENINGS ALLOWED
@ FSD OF 20' to <25' (CBC 705.8)
20'-6" TO PL
18'-1" TO PL
19'-10" TO PL
17'-10" TO PL
26'-10" TO PL
EXTERIOR WALL OPENING LEGEND
FSD 5' to <10' 
FSD 10' to <15' 
FSD 15' to <20' 
FSD 20' to <25' 
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 0.06
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
AREA OF EXTERIOR WALL
OPENINGS BASED ON FSD
3/32" = 1'-0"
ALLOWABLE AREA OF EXTERIOR OPENINGS - COURTYARD WEST
ELEVATION
3/32" = 1'-0"
ALLOWABLE AREA OF EXTERIOR OPENINGS - COURTYARD EAST
ELEVATION

--- page 83 ---
LOW GRADE
0' - 0"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
HIGH POINT
75' - 11 1/2"
6TH FLOOR 
(10'-0" TO PL)
WALL AREA 10' to <15' 
= 2421 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 816 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 816 / 2421 = 33% < 45%
OPENINGS > 20' FROM PL, 
NO LIMIT FOR ALLOWABLE AREA
6TH FLOOR 
(18'-8" TO PL)
WALL AREA 15' to <20' 
= 146 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 72 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 72 / 146 = 49% < 75%
5TH FLOOR 
(16'-3" TO PL)
WALL AREA 15' to <20' 
= 90 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 48 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 48 / 90 = 53% < 75%
5TH FLOOR
(10'-0" TO PL)
WALL AREA 10' to <15' 
= 2510 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 1128 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 1128 / 2510 = 44.9% < 45%
4TH FLOOR  
(16'-3" TO PL)
WALL AREA 15' to <20' 
= 90 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 48 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 48 / 90 = 53% < 75%
4TH FLOOR
(10'-0" TO PL)
WALL AREA 10' to <15' 
= 2516 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 1128 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 1128 / 2516 = 44.8% < 45%
3RD FLOOR  
(16'-3" TO PL)
WALL AREA 15' to <20' 
= 90 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 48 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 48 / 90 = 53% < 75%
3RD FLOOR 
(10'-0" TO PL)
WALL AREA 10' to <15' 
= 2516 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 1128 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 1128 / 2516 = 44.8% < 45%
2ND FLOOR  
(16'-3" TO PL)
WALL AREA 15' to <20' 
= 124 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 60 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 60 / 124 = 48% < 75%
2ND FLOOR 
(10'-0" TO PL)
WALL AREA 10' to <15' 
= 3392 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 1422 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 1422 / 3392 = 42% < 45%
NO OPENINGS AT 1ST FLOOR
NO OPENINGS AT 1ST FLOOR
11'-6" TO PL
11'-2" TO PL
11'-3" TO PL
LOW GRADE
0' - 0"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
HIGH POINT
75' - 11 1/2"
6TH FLOOR 
(5'-9" TO PL)
WALL AREA 5' to <10' 
= 191 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 37 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 37 / 191 = 19% < 25%
5TH FLOOR 
(5'-9" TO PL)
WALL AREA 5' to <10' 
= 151 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 37 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 37 / 151 = 24.5% < 25%
2ND FLOOR 
(5'-9" TO PL)
WALL AREA 5' to <10' 
= 203 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 48 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 48 / 203 = 24% < 25%
4TH FLOOR
(5'-9" TO PL)
WALL AREA 5' to <10' 
= 151 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 37 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 37 / 151 = 24.5% < 25%
3RD FLOOR 
(5'-9" TO PL)
WALL AREA 5' to <10' 
= 151 SF
OPENING AREA 
= 37 SF
OPENING AREA PERCENTAGE
= 37 / 151 = 24.5% < 25%
NO OPENINGS AT 1ST FLOOR
EXTERIOR WALL OPENING LEGEND
FSD 5' to <10' 
FSD 10' to <15' 
FSD 15' to <20' 
FSD 20' to <25' 
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 0.07
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
AREA OF EXTERIOR WALL
OPENINGS BASED ON FSD
3/32" = 1'-0"
ALLOWABLE AREA OF EXTERIOR OPENINGS - WEST ELEVATION
3/32" = 1'-0"
ALLOWABLE AREA OF EXTERIOR OPENINGS - NORTH ELEVATION
REAR PL

--- page 84 ---
1" = 40'-0"
2
PLUMBING ANALYSIS - 1ST FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
3
PLUMBING ANALYSIS - 2ND FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
4
PLUMBING ANALYSIS - 3RD - 5TH FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
5
PLUMBING ANALYSIS - 6TH FLOOR
1" = 40'-0"
1
PLUMBING ANALYSIS - BASEMENT
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
1" = 40'-0"
A 0.08
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
PLUMBING ANALYSIS
PLUMBING ANALYSIS
REFER TO A 0.03 FOR OCCUPANCY ANALYSIS
AND DETERMINATION OF OCCUPANT LOADS USED
TO CALCULATE MINIMUM NUMBER OF REQUIRED FIXTURES
FIXTURE CALCULATIONS - 1ST FLOOR
SPACE
OCCUPANCY
TYPE
AREA
OLF
TOTAL
OCCUPANTS
TOTAL
OCCUPANTS - M
TOTAL
OCCUPANTS - F
REQ'D WC -
M
REQ'D WC
- F
REQ'D
URINAL
REQ'D LAV
- M
REQ'D LAV
- F
REQ'D
DRINKING
FOUNTAIN
PROPOSED
B READING
ROOM
S-2, R-2, B
879 SF
50
18
9
9
1: 1-50
1: 1-15
1: 1-100
1: 1-75
1: 1-50
1 PER 150
B OFFICE
S-2, R-2, B
1009 SF
150
7
4
4
1: 1-50
1: 1-15
1: 1-100
1: 1-75
1: 1-50
1 PER 150
The project proposes (3) all-gender
bathrooms serving the Office and
Reading Room. CPC 422.2(3) states In
business and mercantile occupancies
with a total occupant load of 50 or less
including customers and employees, one
toilet facility, designed for use by no
more than one person at a time, shall be
permitted for use by both sexes. 2
all-gender toilet facilities are required to
serve the Office and Reading Room, a
3rd facility is proposed for convenience.
N/A - NO FIXTURES REQUIRED AT BASEMENT
N/A - NO PUBLIC SPACE AT 3RD-5TH FLOOR
FIXTURE CALCULATIONS - 2ND FLOOR
SPACE
OCCUPANCY
TYPE
AREA
OLF
TOTAL
OCCUPANTS
TOTAL
OCCUPANTS -
M
TOTAL
OCCUPANTS -
F
REQ'D WC -
M
REQ'D WC
- F
REQ'D
URINAL
REQ'D LAV
- M
REQ'D
LAV - F
REQ'D
DRINKING
FOUNTAIN
PROPOSED
B EXERCISE
ROOM
R-2, B, A-3
1918 SF
50
39
20
20
1: 1-50
2: 16-30
1: 1-100
1: 1-75
1: 1-50
1 PER 150
The project proposes (2) all-gender
bathrooms serving the Exercise Room.
CPC 422.2(3) states In business and
mercantile occupancies with a total
occupant load of 50 or less including
customers and employees, one toilet
facility, designed for use by no more than
one person at a time, shall be permitted
for use by both sexes. 1 all-gender toilet
facility is required to serve the exercise
room, a 2nd facility is provided for
convenience.
3 PROPOSED 
TOILET FACILITIES
2 PROPOSED 
TOILET FACILITIES
1 PROPOSED 
TOILET FACILITY
FIXTURE CALCULATIONS - 6TH FLOOR
SPACE
OCCUPANCY
TYPE
AREA
OLF
TOTAL
OCCUPANTS
TOTAL
OCCUPANTS -
M
TOTAL
OCCUPANTS -
F
REQ'D WC -
M
REQ'D WC
- F
REQ'D
URINAL
REQ'D LAV
- M
REQ'D
LAV - F
REQ'D
DRINKING
FOUNTAIN
PROPOSED
B SKY
LOUNGE
R-2, B
688 SF
15
46
23
23
1: 1-50
2: 16-30
1: 1-100
1: 1-75
1: 1-50
1 PER 150
The project proposes (1) all-gender
bathroom serving the Sky Lounge. CPC
422.2(3) states In business and
mercantile occupancies with a total
occupant load of 50 or less including
customers and employees, one toilet
facility, designed for use by no more than
one person at a time, shall be permitted
for use by both sexes.

--- page 85 ---
1918 SF
39
B EXERCISE ROOM
50
9610 SF
49
R-2 RESIDENTIAL
200
BUILDING B
BUILDING C
BUILDING A PERIMETER: 517'-6"
BUILDING A PERIMETER: 517'-6"
LENGTH OF PERIMETER FACING OPEN SPACE: 251'-3"
BUILDING A
HORIZONTAL EXIT
@ FIRE WALL
HORIZONTAL EXIT
@ FIRE WALL
12153 SF
61
R-2 RESIDENTIAL
200
BUILDING B
BUILDING C
BUILDING A
BUILDING A PERIMETER: 517'-6"
BUILDING A PERIMETER: 517'-6"
LENGTH OF PERIMETER FACING OPEN SPACE: 251'-3"
HORIZONTAL EXIT
@ FIRE WALL
HORIZONTAL EXIT
@ FIRE WALL
BUILDING B
BUILDING C
11110 SF
56
R-2 RESIDENTIAL
200
BUILDING A
BUILDING A PERIMETER: 517'-6"
BUILDING A PERIMETER: 517'-6"
LENGTH OF PERIMETER FACING OPEN SPACE: 251'-3"
HORIZONTAL EXIT
@ FIRE WALL
HORIZONTAL EXIT
@ FIRE WALL
GROSS 
SQUARE 
FOOTAGE
OCCUPANT 
LOAD
FACTOR
OCCUPANT 
COUNT
OCCUPANCY 
TYPE
XXX
XXX
XXX
XXX
BUILDING SEPARATION
LINE
RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCY
BUSINESS OCCUPANCY
BUILDING PERIMETER
BUILDING PERIMETER
FACING OPEN SPACE >30'
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 0.09
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
BUILDING A-ALLOWABLE
AREA ANALYSIS
3/64" = 1'-0"
BUILDING A AREA PLAN - 2ND FLOOR
3/64" = 1'-0"
BUILDING A AREA PLAN - 3RD-5TH FLOOR
3/64" = 1'-0"
BUILDING A AREA PLAN - 6TH FLOOR
CBC 508.4.2 (SEPARATED OCCUPANCIES): IN EACH STORY, THE BUILDING AREA SHALL BE SUCH THAT THE SUM 
OF THE RATIOS OF THE ACTUAL BUILDING AREA OF EACH SEPARATED OCCUPANCY DIVIDED BY THE 
ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA OF EACH SEPARATED OCCUPANCY SHALL NOT EXCEED 1.
ALLOWABLE AREA OF EACH STORY (EQUATION 5-3) PER 506.2.2: Aa = At + (NS x If)
Aa = 
ALLOWABLE AREA OF EACH STORY
At   = 
ALLOWABLE AREA FACTOR (SM or SM WITH HEIGHT INCREASE)
NS =
ALLOWABLE AREA FACTOR FOR NONSPRINKLERED BUILDING
If 
= 
0.25 (PER TABLE 506.3.3 FOR OPEN SPACE >30 AT 25-50% OF BUILDING PERIMETER)
PER CBC 506.2.2, THE AGGREGATE SUM OF THE RATIOS OF THE ACTUAL AREA OF EACH STORY DIVIDED BY 
THE ALLOWABLE AREA OF SUCH STORIES SHALL NOT EXCEED 2.
2ND FLOOR RATIO: 
0.34
3RD-5TH FLOOR RATIO:
0.41
6TH FLOOR RATIO:
0.37
AGGREGATE SUM OF RATIOS (BUILDING A): 0.34 + 0.41 + 0.41 + 0.41 + 0.37 = 1.94 < 2.00
2ND FLOOR ALLOWABLE AREA (BUILDING A):
EXERCISE ROOM (B OCCUPANCY) 
Aa = 85,500 + (28,500 x 0.25)
Aa = 92,625
1,918 / 92,625 = 0.02
RESIDENTIAL (R-2 OCCUPANCY)
Aa = 24,000 + (24,000 x 0.25)
Aa = 30,000
9,610 / 30,000 = 0.32
SUM OF RATIOS OF EACH 
SEPARATED OCCUPANCY (2ND FLOOR):
0.02 + 0.32 = 0.34
3RD-5TH FLOOR ALLOWABLE AREA (BUILDING A):
RESIDENTIAL (R-2 OCCUPANCY)
Aa = 24,000 + (24,000 x 0.25)
Aa = 30,000
12,153 / 30,000 = 0.41
SUM OF RATIOS OF EACH 
SEPARATED OCCUPANCY (3RD-5TH FLOOR):
0.41
6TH FLOOR ALLOWABLE AREA (BUILDING A):
RESIDENTIAL (R-2 OCCUPANCY)
Aa = 24,000 + (24,000 x 0.25)
Aa = 30,000
11,110 / 30,000 = 0.37
SUM OF RATIOS OF EACH 
SEPARATED OCCUPANCY (6TH FLOOR):
0.37
BUILDING A - ALLOWABLE AREA ANALYSIS (MIXED OCCUPANCY)

--- page 86 ---
11522 SF
58
R-2 RESIDENTIAL
200
BUILDING B
BUILDING C
BUILDING B PERIMETER: 497'-7"
BUILDING B PERIMETER: 497'-7"
LENGTH OF PERIMETER FACING OPEN SPACE: 243'-3"
BUILDING A
HORIZONTAL EXIT
@ FIRE WALL
HORIZONTAL EXIT
@ FIRE WALL
11573 SF
58
R-2 RESIDENTIAL
200
BUILDING B
BUILDING C
BUILDING A
BUILDING B PERIMETER: 497'-7"
BUILDING B PERIMETER: 497'-7"
LENGTH OF PERIMETER FACING OPEN SPACE: 243'-3"
HORIZONTAL EXIT
@ FIRE WALL
HORIZONTAL EXIT
@ FIRE WALL
11191 SF
56
R-2 RESIDENTIAL
200
BUILDING B
BUILDING C
BUILDING A
BUILDING B PERIMETER: 497'-7"
BUILDING B PERIMETER: 497'-7"
LENGTH OF PERIMETER FACING OPEN SPACE: 243'-3"
HORIZONTAL EXIT
@ FIRE WALL
HORIZONTAL EXIT
@ FIRE WALL
GROSS 
SQUARE 
FOOTAGE
OCCUPANT 
LOAD
FACTOR
OCCUPANT 
COUNT
OCCUPANCY 
TYPE
XXX
XXX
XXX
XXX
BUILDING SEPARATION
LINE
RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCY
BUSINESS OCCUPANCY
BUILDING PERIMETER
BUILDING PERIMETER
FACING OPEN SPACE >30'
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 0.10
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
BUILDING B-ALLOWABLE
AREA ANALYSIS
3/64" = 1'-0"
BUILDING B AREA PLAN - 2ND FLOOR
3/64" = 1'-0"
BUILDING B AREA PLAN - 3RD-5TH FLOOR
3/64" = 1'-0"
BUILDING B AREA PLAN - 6TH FLOOR
ALLOWABLE AREA OF EACH STORY FOR SINGLE OCCUPANCY BUILDINGS (EQUATION 5-1): Aa = At + (NS x If)
Aa = 
ALLOWABLE AREA OF EACH STORY
At   = 
24,000 PER TABLE 506.2 (SM WITH HEIGHT INCREASE)
NS =
24,000 PER TABLE 506.2
If 
= 
0.25 (PER TABLE 506.3.3 FOR OPEN SPACE >30 AT 25-50% OF BUILDING PERIMETER)
Aa = 24,000 + (24,000 x 0.25)
Aa = 30,000 PER STORY
TOTAL ALLOWABLE AREA OF A SINGLE-OCCUPANCY BUILDING (EQUATION 5-2): Aa = [At + (NS x If)] x Sa
Sa = 2 FOR GROUP R OCCUPANCIES
Aa = [24,000 + (24,000 x 0.25)] x 2
Aa = 60,000 TOTAL ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA
TOTAL BUILDING AREA (BUILDING B): 11,522 + 11,573 + 11,573 + 11,573 + 11,191 = 57,433 SF < 60,000 
6TH FLOOR ALLOWABLE AREA (BUILDING B):
ALLOWABLE AREA PER STORY
Aa = 24,000 + (24,000 x 0.25)
Aa = 30,000
PROPOSED 6TH FLOOR AREA
11,191
BUILDING B - ALLOWABLE AREA ANALYSIS (SINGLE OCCUPANCY)
3RD-5TH FLOOR ALLOWABLE AREA (BUILDING B):
ALLOWABLE AREA PER STORY
Aa = 24,000 + (24,000 x 0.25)
Aa = 30,000
PROPOSED 3RD-5TH FLOOR AREA
11,573
2ND FLOOR ALLOWABLE AREA (BUILDING B):
ALLOWABLE AREA PER STORY
Aa = 24,000 + (24,000 x 0.25)
Aa = 30,000
PROPOSED 2ND FLOOR AREA
11,522

--- page 87 ---
7174 SF
36
R-2 RESIDENTIAL
200
BUILDING B
BUILDING C
BUILDING A
HORIZONTAL EXIT
@ FIRE WALL
HORIZONTAL EXIT
@ FIRE WALL
8243 SF
42
R-2 RESIDENTIAL
200
BUILDING B
BUILDING C
BUILDING A
HORIZONTAL EXIT
@ FIRE WALL
HORIZONTAL EXIT
@ FIRE WALL
4876 SF
25
R-2 RESIDENTIAL
200
688 SF
46
B SKY LOUNGE
15
509 SF
34
B ROOF DECK
15
BUILDING B
BUILDING C
BUILDING A
HORIZONTAL EXIT
@ FIRE WALL
HORIZONTAL EXIT
@ FIRE WALL
GROSS 
SQUARE 
FOOTAGE
OCCUPANT 
LOAD
FACTOR
OCCUPANT 
COUNT
OCCUPANCY 
TYPE
XXX
XXX
XXX
XXX
BUILDING SEPARATION
LINE
RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCY
BUSINESS OCCUPANCY
BUILDING PERIMETER
BUILDING PERIMETER
FACING OPEN SPACE >30'
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 0.11
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
BUILDING C-ALLOWABLE
AREA ANALYSIS
3/64" = 1'-0"
BUILDING C AREA PLAN - 2ND FLOOR
3/64" = 1'-0"
BUILDING C AREA PLAN - 3RD-5TH FLOOR
3/64" = 1'-0"
BUILDING C AREA PLAN - 6TH FLOOR
CBC 508.4.2 (SEPARATED OCCUPANCIES): IN EACH STORY, THE BUILDING AREA SHALL BE SUCH THAT THE SUM 
OF THE RATIOS OF THE ACTUAL BUILDING AREA OF EACH SEPARATED OCCUPANCY DIVIDED BY THE 
ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA OF EACH SEPARATED OCCUPANCY SHALL NOT EXCEED 1.
ALLOWABLE AREA OF EACH STORY (EQUATION 5-3) PER 506.2.2: Aa = At + (NS x If)
Aa = 
ALLOWABLE AREA OF EACH STORY
At   = 
ALLOWABLE AREA FACTOR (SM or SM WITH HEIGHT INCREASE)
NS =
ALLOWABLE AREA FACTOR FOR NONSPRINKLERED BUILDING
If 
= 
N/A (BUILDING C DOES NOT REQUIRE A FRONTAGE INCREASE)
PER CBC 506.2.2, THE AGGREGATE SUM OF THE RATIOS OF THE ACTUAL AREA OF EACH STORY DIVIDED BY 
THE ALLOWABLE AREA OF SUCH STORIES SHALL NOT EXCEED 2.
2ND FLOOR RATIO: 
0.30
3RD-5TH FLOOR RATIO:
0.34
6TH FLOOR RATIO:
0.21
AGGREGATE SUM OF RATIOS (BUILDING A): 0.30 + 0.34 + 0.34 + 0.34 + 0.21 = 1.53 < 2.00
2ND FLOOR ALLOWABLE AREA (BUILDING C):
RESIDENTIAL (R-2 OCCUPANCY)
Aa = 24,000 
7,174 / 24,000 = 0.30
SUM OF RATIOS OF EACH 
SEPARATED OCCUPANCY (2ND FLOOR):
0.30
3RD-5TH FLOOR ALLOWABLE AREA (BUILDING C):
RESIDENTIAL (R-2 OCCUPANCY)
Aa = 24,000
8,243 / 24,000 = 0.34
SUM OF RATIOS OF EACH 
SEPARATED OCCUPANCY (3RD-5TH FLOOR):
0.34
BUILDING C - ALLOWABLE AREA ANALYSIS (MIXED OCCUPANCY)
6TH FLOOR ALLOWABLE AREA (BUILDING C):
SKY LOUNGE/ROOF DECK (B OCCUPANCY) 
Aa = 85,500
1,197 / 85,500 = 0.01
RESIDENTIAL (R-2 OCCUPANCY)
Aa = 24,000 
4,876 / 24,000 = 0.2
SUM OF RATIOS OF EACH 
SEPARATED OCCUPANCY (6TH FLOOR):
0.2 + 0.01 = 0.21

--- page 88 ---
37.98
37.93
37.83
37.64
37.57
37.50
37.18
36.93
36.69
36.74
38.25
38.61
38.91
39.41
38.74
STATE ST
N SAN MATEO
VILLA TERRACE
N SAN MATEO
N SAN MATEO DR
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
2' - 0" TO PL
148' - 1"
FLAT ROOF OVER 6TH FLOOR
COURTYARD AT 2ND FLOOR
POOL AT 2ND FLOOR
EXTERIOR 
STAIR
FLAT ROOF OVER 6TH FLOOR
EXTERIOR WALKWAY AT 6TH FLOOR
EXTERIOR PLATFORM AND 
WALKWAY AT 6TH FLOOR
ROOF OVER 6TH FLOOR
TERRACE AT 
6TH FLOOR
EXTERIOR STAIR
TO PL
2' - 0"
5' - 8"
31' - 6"
TO PL
2' - 6"
35' - 5"
44' - 7"
108' - 3"
44' - 8"
PL
PL
PL
PL
PL
PL
STAIR TO
ROOF
STAIR TO
ROOF
ELEVATOR
PENTHOUSE
ELEVATOR
PENTHOUSE
RESIDENTIAL ENTRY AT 1ST FLOOR
AUTO ENTRY AND EXIT 
AT STREET LEVEL
ON STREET 
LOADING/TRASH
TERRACE AT 6TH FLOOR
TERRACES AT 2ND FLOOR
TERRACE AT 2ND FLOOR
EXTERIOR TERRACES AT 6TH FLOOR
BRIDGE AT 6TH FLOOR
TO PL
5' - 7"
29' - 7"
7' - 6"
46' - 7"
20' - 0"
82' - 3"
50' - 1"
57' - 0"
30' - 6"
8' - 5"
31' - 8"
35' - 0"
30' - 9"
32' - 9"
9' - 6"
65' - 7"
73' - 7"
34' - 11"
44' - 8"
TO PL
2' - 0"
16' - 8"
TO PL
8' - 6"
NEIGHBOR BUILDING
NEIGHBOR BUILDING
NEIGHBOR BUILDING
162' - 10" - OVERALL BUILDING DEPTH
73' - 3 1/2"
73' - 3 1/2"
73' - 3 1/2"
74' - 9 1/2"
75' - 11 1/2"
17' - 9 1/2"
62' - 3 1/2"
62' - 3 1/2"
62' - 3 1/2"
62' - 3 1/2"
62' - 3 1/2"
62' - 3 1/2"
337' - 5" - OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH
TO PL
1' - 7"
4' - 0"
67' - 10"
49' - 8"
33' - 5"
8' - 0"
235' - 4"
TO PL
99' - 0"
38' - 5"
77' - 5"
218' - 3"
41' - 0"
44' - 8"
SEE LANDSCAPE PLANS FOR DETAILS
SPA AT 
2ND FLOOR
(N) CURB CUT
AND DRIVEWAY
TO PL
24' - 11"
TO PL
10' - 0"
REQUIRED SETBACKS PER SAN 
MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE TITLE 
27.48.090 AND 27.48.100
PROPERTY LINE
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
1/16" = 1'-0"
A 2.00
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
SITE PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
SITE PLAN

--- page 89 ---
RAMP UP
827 SF
BOILER
47446 SF
PARKING
STAIR 2
ELEV 1
ELEV 2
STAIR 1
FOR PARKING LAYOUT
REFER TO SHEET PK 2.0B
TO PL
2' - 6"
332' - 0" - OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH @ BASEMENT
TO PL
4' - 6"
TO PL
2' - 9"
TO PL
162' - 4"
22' - 1"
179' - 10"
TO PL
2' - 6"
329' - 4"
TO PL
2' - 6"
TO PL
2' - 0"
40' - 8"
291' - 5"
BFPS AND PUMPS
ELEVATOR LOBBY
TO PL
150' - 0"
28'-1"
19'-6"
18'-7"
22'-10"
28'-5"
25'-2"
22'-1"
127'-5"
177'-10"
TO PL
2' - 0"
SECURITY LIGHTING AND 
SURVEILLANCE CAMERS TO BE 
INSTALLED THROUGOUT 
PARKING GARAGE
18" X 30", TYP
TREE 18 - 6x 
ESTIMATED DBH
TREE 20 - 8x 
ESTIMATED DBH
ø 40"
ø 16"
TREE 18 - 6x 
ESTIMATED DBH
ø 40"
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
4' - 0"
3' - 1"
7' - 0"
118' - 7"
41' - 10"
3' - 1"
128' - 6"
14' - 0"
TO PL
16' - 0"
127' - 5"
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
3/32" = 1'-0"
A 2.0B
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
BASEMENT FLOOR PLAN
3/32" = 1'-0"
BASEMENT FLOOR PLAN (DESIGN REVIEW PLANS)

--- page 90 ---
RAMP DN
V
V
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
ELEV 1
202 SF
FIRE
COMMAND
533 SF
MAIL/PACKAGE
1105 SF
LOBBY
921 SF
COWORKING
782 SF
ND/LEASING
25002 SF
PARKING
ELEV 2
1574 SF
BIKE PARKING
946 SF
TRASH ROOM
175 SF
MUDDY
PAWS
250 SF
POOL EQUIPMENT
1086 SF
MAINTENANCE
656 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C4
668 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
838 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UC
942 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
954 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
773 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
753 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
735 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
741 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1427 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2G
667 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
614 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1237 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2D
65 SF
IDF
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
N SAN MATEO
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
533 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: SB
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
RESIDENTIAL ENTRY
AUTO ENTRY AND EXIT
334' - 0" - OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH @ N. 1ST FLOOR
0' - 3" TO PL
162' - 10" - OVERALL BUILDING DEPTH @ 1ST FLOOR
2' - 0" TO PL
ELECTRIC
89' - 3"
19' - 11"
82' - 3"
87' - 10"
158' - 0"
4' - 6"
21' - 5"
56' - 7"
9' - 4"
10' - 11"
9' - 4"
41' - 2"
178' - 0"
4' - 0"
3' - 2" TO PL
330' - 11"
0' - 3" TO PL
TO PL
16' - 0"
118' - 7"
12' - 0" TO PL
CORRIDOR
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
196 BIKES
TRANSFORMER
TO PL
2' - 0"
MPOE
TO PL
5' - 0"
DERO BIKE FILE (36)
DERO DECKER (70)
DERO DUPLEX (82)
DERO SWERVE 
RACK (8)
1' - 6 1/2"
1' - 6 1/2"
TREE 18 - 6x 
ESTIMATED DBH
TREE 20 - 8x 
ESTIMATED DBH
DN
1303 SF
ELECTRIC
ELECTRIC
SWITCH GEAR
SWITCH GEAR
15'-6"
10'-0"
30'-0"
1
1
21'-1"
23'-0"
38'-1"
23'-0"
45'-10"
220'-5"
94'-5"
109'-3"
8'-10"
9'-6"
47'-6"
KNOX BOX 
LOCATION
(PV 
OVERRIDE)
7'-0"
48'-1"
68'-6"
19'-0"
13'-0"
11'-10"
13'-0"
7'-9"
18'-5"
36'-9"
2
ELEC METER BANKS 
ON EXT WALLS
9' - 4"
0' - 3"
1' - 6 1/2"
2' - 11"
STOOP, TYP.
6' - 0"  TO PL
TO PL
7"
TO PL
3' - 3"
TO PL
8' - 1"
TO PL
4' - 11"
TO PL
7"
TO PL
4' - 3"
TO PL
2' - 2"
TO PL
3' - 2"
TO PL
2' - 4"
193 SF
RESTROOMS
TO PL
2' - 0"
TOOL LOCKER
4' - 0"
2' - 0"
3/8" / 1'-0"
1/8" / 1'-0"
3/4" / 1'-0"
SECURITY GRILLE
SECURITY LIGHTING AND 
SURVEILLANCE CAMERS TO BE 
INSTALLED THROUGOUT 
PARKING GARAGE
FOR PARKING LAYOUT
REFER TO SHEET PK 2.01
ø 40"
ø 16"
4' - 0"
3' - 2"
7' - 0"
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
R 21' - 8"
R 11' - 8"
DN
32' - 11 1/2"
25' - 2 1/4"
12' - 9"
9' - 7 1/2"
50' - 1"
EXTERIOR ACCESSIBLE ROUTE
PROPERTY LINE
45-DEG VISION TRIANGLE
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 2.01
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
1ST FLOOR PLAN
3/32" = 1'-0"
1ST FLOOR PLAN (DESIGN REVIEW PLANS)
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TYPE BREAKDOWN - 1ST FLOOR
UNIT TYPE
AREA
COUNT
STUDIO
533 SF
1
URBAN 1 BED
5789 SF
8
1 BEDROOM
2551 SF
3
2 BEDROOM
2664 SF
2
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TOTALS
11537 SF
14
PLAN NOTES
1
CAST METAL BUILDING SIGNAGE, HT 18", DEPTH 2"
2
FIRE CONTROL ROOM SIGNAGE

--- page 91 ---
DN
COURTYARD
POOL
SPA
WALKWAY ABOVE
WALKWAY ABOVE
LINE OF BLDG ABOVE
1034 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A2
606 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: S
588 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C1
743 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
857 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
858 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
857 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
708 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C2
692 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
634 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
731 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
1108 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A1
742 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
1983 SF
AMENITY/GYM
1184 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C3
767 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
740 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
757 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
756 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
755 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
877 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
672 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
672 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
CORRIDOR
ELEV 1
26 SF
IDF
1500 SF
3 BEDROOM
TYPE: 3A
977 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C1
965 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C1
703 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1B1
1148 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2B2
1092 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C4
1066 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2B3
690 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
STAIR 2
672 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
101 SF
TRASH RM W/ CHUTE
55 SF
IDF
ELEV 2
STAIR 3
N SAN MATEO
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
OPEN TO BELOW
STAIR 1
337' - 5" - OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH @ 2ND FLOOR
1' - 7" TO PL
0' - 2" TO PL
154' - 10" - OVERALL BUILDING DEPTH @ 2ND FLOOR
10' - 0" TO PL
9' - 8"
25' - 6"
7' - 6"
46' - 7"
20' - 0"
82' - 3"
50' - 1"
57' - 0"
3' - 1"
35' - 10"
31' - 4"
5' - 5"
35' - 0"
30' - 9"
34' - 3"
82' - 3"
10' - 5"
63' - 1"
34' - 11"
9' - 11"
36' - 8"
4' - 8"
18' - 3"
93' - 0" TO PL
36' - 2"
35' - 8"
30' - 0"
9' - 10"
37' - 6"
48' - 0"
98' - 6"
9' - 0"
260' - 2"
74' - 2" TO PL
10' - 0" TO PL
136' - 8"
71' - 10"
37' - 11"
38' - 5"
23' - 2"
10' - 3"
39' - 8"
10' - 0"
TO PL
5' - 9"
10' - 2"
GYM
WC
CANOPY
CANOPY
LINE OF 
BUILDING 
BELOW
8'-11"
9'-8"
64'-10"
29'-1"
7'-0"
24' - 7"
6' - 11"
7'-4"
7'-4"
16' - 3"
10' - 0"
11' - 6"
10' - 0"
11' - 2"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
11' - 2"
41' - 0"
35' - 9"
44' - 8"
39' - 8"
41' - 0"
41' - 4"
36' - 1"
44' - 8"
39' - 8"
BUILDING SEPARATION LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 2.02
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
2ND FLOOR PLAN
3/32" = 1'-0"
2ND FLOOR PLAN (DESIGN REVIEW PLANS)
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TYPE BREAKDOWN - 2ND FLOOR
UNIT TYPE
AREA
COUNT
STUDIO
606 SF
1
URBAN 1 BED
4034 SF
6
1 BEDROOM
11438 SF
15
2 BEDROOM
8575 SF
8
3 BEDROOM
1500 SF
1
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TOTALS
26153 SF
31

--- page 92 ---
1491 SF
3 BEDROOM
TYPE: 3A
977 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C1
965 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C1
699 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1B1
1152 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2B2
1092 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C4
1066 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2B3
1034 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A2
1179 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C3
607 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: S
582 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C1
766 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
743 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
858 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
740 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
758 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
756 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
857 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
858 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
785 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C2
669 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
632 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
733 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
1099 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A1
755 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
876 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
673 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
673 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
675 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
1062 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C2
982 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A3
1101 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2B1
643 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
673 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
742 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
CORRIDOR
29 SF
IDF
ELEV 1
99 SF
TRASH RM W/ CHUTE
55 SF
IDF
ELEV 2
COURTYARD BELOW
N SAN MATEO
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
STAIR 3
EXTERIOR WALKWAY
EXTERIOR WALKWAY
9' - 8"
25' - 6"
7' - 6"
46' - 7"
20' - 0"
82' - 3"
50' - 1"
57' - 0"
3' - 1"
35' - 10"
30' - 0"
9' - 10"
37' - 6"
48' - 0"
98' - 6"
14' - 4"
9' - 10"
47' - 8"
212' - 10"
9' - 0"
41' - 0"
337' - 5" - OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH @ 3RD FLOOR
1' - 7" TO PL
0' - 2" TO PL
154' - 10" - OVERALL BUILDING DEPTH @ 3RD FLOOR
10' - 0" TO PL
31' - 4"
5' - 5"
35' - 0"
30' - 9"
34' - 3"
82' - 3"
10' - 5"
63' - 1"
34' - 11"
9' - 11"
36' - 8"
4' - 8"
18' - 3"
93' - 1" TO PL
29' - 11"
6' - 3"
35' - 8"
260' - 2"
74' - 2" TO PL
10' - 0" TO PL
136' - 8"
TO PL
5' - 9"
23' - 2"
10' - 3"
39' - 8"
10' - 0"
8'-11"
9'-8"
16' - 3"
44' - 8"
39' - 8"
44' - 8"
20' - 6"
20' - 6"
22' - 10"
18' - 0"
17' - 10"
18' - 0"
24' - 10"
19' - 10"
19' - 10"
19' - 10"
BUILDING SEPARATION LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 2.03
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
3RD FLOOR PLAN
3/32" = 1'-0"
3RD FLOOR PLAN (DESIGN REVIEW PLANS)
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TYPE BREAKDOWN - 3RD FLOOR
UNIT TYPE
AREA
COUNT
STUDIO
607 SF
1
URBAN 1 BED
4638 SF
7
1 BEDROOM
11509 SF
15
2 BEDROOM
11709 SF
11
3 BEDROOM
1491 SF
1
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TOTALS
29954 SF
35

--- page 93 ---
CORRIDOR
26 SF
IDF
ELEV 1
100 SF
TRASH RM W/ CHUTE
55 SF
IDF
ELEV 2
EXTERIOR WALKWAY
EXTERIOR WALKWAY
COURTYARD BELOW
N SAN MATEO
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
STAIR 3
337' - 5" - OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH @ 4TH FLOOR
1' - 7" TO PL
0' - 2" TO PL
154' - 10" - OVERALL BUILDING DEPTH @ 4TH FLOOR
10' - 0" TO PL
9' - 8"
25' - 6"
7' - 6"
46' - 7"
20' - 0"
82' - 3"
50' - 1"
57' - 0"
3' - 1"
35' - 10"
31' - 4"
5' - 5"
35' - 0"
30' - 9"
34' - 3"
82' - 3"
10' - 5"
63' - 1"
34' - 11"
9' - 11"
36' - 8"
4' - 8"
18' - 3"
93' - 1" TO PL
29' - 11"
6' - 3"
35' - 8"
30' - 0"
9' - 10"
37' - 6"
48' - 0"
98' - 6"
14' - 4"
9' - 10"
47' - 8"
212' - 10"
9' - 0"
41' - 0"
260' - 2"
74' - 2" TO PL
10' - 0" TO PL
136' - 8"
1491 SF
3 BEDROOM
TYPE: 3A
977 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C1
965 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C1
703 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1B1
1148 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2B2
1092 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C4
1066 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2B3
1033 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A2
1177 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C3
606 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: S
597 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C1
767 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
743 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
858 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
740 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
758 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
756 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
857 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
858 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
775 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C2
669 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
632 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
733 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
1099 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A1
755 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
876 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
673 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
673 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
675 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
1062 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C2
982 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A3
1099 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2B1
643 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
673 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
742 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
23' - 2"
10' - 3"
39' - 8"
10' - 0"
9'-8"
16' - 3"
36' - 0"
44' - 8"
39' - 8"
41' - 0"
20' - 6"
20' - 6"
22' - 10"
18' - 1"
17' - 10"
18' - 1"
24' - 10"
19' - 10"
19' - 10"
19' - 10"
BUILDING SEPARATION LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 2.04
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
4TH FLOOR PLAN
3/32" = 1'-0"
4TH FLOOR PLAN (DESIGN REVIEW PLANS)
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TYPE BREAKDOWN - 4TH FLOOR
UNIT TYPE
AREA
COUNT
STUDIO
606 SF
1
URBAN 1 BED
4638 SF
7
1 BEDROOM
11519 SF
15
2 BEDROOM
11700 SF
11
3 BEDROOM
1491 SF
1
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TOTALS
29955 SF
35

--- page 94 ---
CORRIDOR
26 SF
IDF
ELEV 1
100 SF
TRASH RM W/ CHUTE
55 SF
IDF
ELEV 2
COURTYARD BELOW
EXTERIOR WALKWAY
EXTERIOR WALKWAY
N SAN MATEO
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
STAIR 3
9' - 8"
25' - 6"
7' - 6"
46' - 7"
20' - 0"
82' - 3"
50' - 1"
57' - 0"
3' - 1"
35' - 10"
31' - 4"
5' - 5"
35' - 0"
30' - 9"
34' - 3"
82' - 3"
10' - 5"
63' - 1"
34' - 11"
9' - 11"
36' - 8"
4' - 8"
18' - 3"
93' - 1" TO PL
29' - 11"
6' - 3"
35' - 8"
30' - 0"
9' - 10"
37' - 6"
48' - 0"
98' - 6"
14' - 4"
9' - 10"
47' - 8"
212' - 9"
9' - 0"
41' - 0"
337' - 5" - OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH @ 5TH FLOOR
1' - 7" TO PL
154' - 10" - OVERALL BUILDING DEPTH @ 5TH FLOOR
10' - 0" TO PL
260' - 2"
74' - 2" TO PL
10' - 0" TO PL
136' - 8"
1492 SF
3 BEDROOM
TYPE: 3A
978 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C1
965 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C1
704 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1B1
1147 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2B2
1092 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C4
1067 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2B3
1028 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A2
1177 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C3
606 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: S
597 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C1
767 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
743 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
859 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
740 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
758 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
756 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
858 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
858 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
775 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C2
669 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
632 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
733 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
1102 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A1
755 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
876 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
673 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
673 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
675 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
1062 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C2
982 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A3
1102 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2B1
643 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
673 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
742 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
23' - 2"
10' - 3"
39' - 8"
10' - 0"
TO PL
5' - 9"
9'-8"
16' - 3"
11' - 6"
11' - 2"
11' - 3"
10' - 0"
10' - 2"
36' - 0"
44' - 8"
39' - 8"
41' - 1"
20' - 6"
20' - 7"
22' - 10"
18' - 1"
17' - 10"
17' - 10"
24' - 10"
19' - 10"
19' - 10"
19' - 10"
BUILDING SEPARATION LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 2.05
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
5TH FLOOR PLAN
3/32" = 1'-0"
5TH FLOOR PLAN (DESIGN REVIEW PLANS)
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TYPE BREAKDOWN - 5TH FLOOR
UNIT TYPE
AREA
COUNT
STUDIO
606 SF
1
URBAN 1 BED
4638 SF
7
1 BEDROOM
11522 SF
15
2 BEDROOM
11703 SF
11
3 BEDROOM
1492 SF
1
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TOTALS
29961 SF
35

--- page 95 ---
COURTYARD BELOW
EXTERIOR WALKWAY
EXTERIOR WALKWAY
750 SF
SKY LOUNGE
85 SF
ADA BA
1164 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C3
766 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
740 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
757 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
755 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
755 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
755 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
1061 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C2
982 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A3
669 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
632 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
733 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
814 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C3
571 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: S
761 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A3
570 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: S
597 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C1
743 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
857 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
858 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
860 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
642 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C2
742 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
982 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C1
961 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C1
688 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1B1
1045 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2E
588 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: S
581 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: S
986 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2F
31 SF
IDF
ELEV 1
ELEV 2
63 SF
IDF
1240 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2H
N SAN MATEO
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
CORRIDOR
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
STAIR 3
334' - 0" - OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH @ 6TH FLOOR
5' - 0" TO PL
0' - 2" TO PL
154' - 10" - OVERALL BUILDING DEPTH @ 6TH FLOOR
10' - 0" TO PL
46' - 7"
20' - 0"
82' - 3"
50' - 1"
57' - 0"
30' - 6"
10' - 0" TO PL
25' - 6"
6' - 2"
35' - 0"
30' - 9"
11' - 7"
21' - 2"
93' - 1" TO PL
9' - 8"
20' - 4"
37' - 11"
38' - 5"
30' - 0"
9' - 10"
37' - 6"
146' - 6"
14' - 4"
9' - 10"
37' - 10"
9' - 9"
41' - 0"
44' - 8"
2' - 6" TO PL
225' - 0"
TO PL
106' - 10"
5' - 0" TO PL
29' - 8"
47' - 7"
10' - 5"
63' - 1"
34' - 11"
36' - 10"
35' - 5"
189' - 8"
5' - 0" TO PL
131' - 7"
10' - 0" TO PL
111 SF
TRASH RM W/ CHUTE
5' - 7" TO PL
37' - 1"
TO PL
23' - 5"
20' - 0"
44' - 8"
5' - 0"
TO PL
5' - 9"
8'-7"
8'-0"
36'-2"
18'-8"
9'-8"
18' - 8"
11' - 6"
10' - 0"
11' - 2"
30' - 7"
44' - 7"
38' - 6"
29' - 11"
35' - 0"
34' - 11"
BUILDING SEPARATION LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 2.06
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
6TH FLOOR PLAN
3/32" = 1'-0"
6TH FLOOR PLAN (DESIGN REVIEW PLANS)
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TYPE BREAKDOWN - 6TH FLOOR
UNIT TYPE
AREA
COUNT
STUDIO
2310 SF
4
URBAN 1 BED
1301 SF
2
1 BEDROOM
12008 SF
16
2 BEDROOM
9237 SF
9
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TOTALS
24855 SF
31

--- page 96 ---
N SAN MATEO
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
FLAT ROOF OVER 6TH FLOOR
EXTERIOR 
STAIR 
FROM 6TH 
FLOOR TO 
2ND FLOOR
FLAT ROOF OVER 
6TH FLOOR
EXTERIOR WALKWAY AT 6TH FLOOR
EXTERIOR TERRACE AND 
WALKWAY AT 6TH FLOOR
FLAT ROOF OVER 6TH FLOOR
FLAT ROOF 
OVER ELEV 
PENTHOUSE
TERRACE AT 6TH FLOOR
TERRACE AT 
6TH FLOOR
TERRACE 
AT 6TH 
FLOOR
TERRACE AT 6TH FLOOR
TERRACE AT 6TH FLOOR
TERRACES AT 6TH FLOOR
FLAT ROOF O/ 
6TH FLR
BRIDGE AT 6TH FLOOR
MECHANICAL
MECHANICAL
MECHANICAL
73' - 3 1/2"
73' - 3 1/2"
74' - 9 1/2"
75' - 11 1/2"
337' - 5"
154' - 10"
5' - 7"
46' - 7"
20' - 0"
82' - 3"
50' - 1"
57' - 0"
30' - 6"
25' - 6"
6' - 2"
35' - 0"
30' - 9"
11' - 7"
14' - 0"
7' - 2"
1' - 6"
5' - 8"
31' - 6"
45' - 11"
9' - 8"
20' - 4"
37' - 11"
38' - 5"
30' - 0"
9' - 10"
37' - 6"
146' - 6"
14' - 4"
9' - 10"
37' - 10"
9' - 9"
41' - 0"
44' - 8"
232' - 10"
37' - 1"
2' - 6"
11' - 8"
18' - 0"
47' - 7"
10' - 5"
63' - 1"
34' - 11"
44' - 8"
35' - 5"
44' - 7"
107' - 6"
45' - 4"
140' - 1"
8' - 5"
82' - 8 1/2"
75' - 3 1/2"
75' - 3 1/2"
MECHANICAL
MECHANICAL
82' - 9 1/2"
BALCONY AT 6TH FLOOR, TYP
BALCONY AT 6TH FLOOR, TYP
FLAT ROOF 
OVER ELEV 
PENTHOUSE
FLAT ROOF 
OVER 
STAIRS TO 
ROOF
CORNICE
BALCONY AT 6TH FLOOR, TYP
SOLAR READY ZONE
62' - 3 1/2"
62' - 3 1/2"
62' - 3 1/2"
DECORATIVE SCREENS 
AND TRELLISES, TYP
FALL PROTECTION
FALL PROTECTION
FALL PROTECTION
SOLAR READY ZONE
SOLAR READY ZONE
SOLAR READY ZONE
TOTAL ROOF AREA
32,000 SF (APPRX)
REQUIRED SOLAR READY AREA
32,000 x 15% = 4,800 SF
SOLAR READY  AREA PROVIDED
4,860 SF
CORNICE
2' - 0"
CORNICE
2' - 0"
CORNICE
2' - 0"
OVERHANG
3' - 9"
OVERHANG
7' - 10"
OVERHANG
7' - 9"
COURTYARD BELOW
STATE ST
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
4' - 0"
715 NSM
3' - 0"
N SAN MATEO ROAD
MECHANICAL 
EQUIPMENT
715 NSM
4' - 0"
4' - 6"
VILLA TERRACE
MECHANICAL 
EQUIPMENT
715 NSM
4' - 0"
4' - 8"
BUILDING SEPARATION LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 2.07
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
ROOF PLAN
3/32" = 1'-0"
ROOF PLAN
SIGHT LINE DIAGRAMS
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT NOT VISIBLE
FROM RIGHT OF WAY

--- page 97 ---
LOW GRADE
0' - 0"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
71' - 9"
10' - 0"
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
16' - 3"
13' - 9"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
11' - 0"
4' - 0"
HIGH POINT
75' - 11 1/2"
75' - 11 1/2" - BUILDING HEIGHT
1
2
3
4
4
7
LOW GRADE
0' - 0"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
71' - 9"
4' - 0"
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
10' - 0"
11' - 0"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
13' - 9"
16' - 3"
HIGH POINT
75' - 11 1/2"
75' - 11 1/2" - BUILDING HEIGHT
1
3
4
4
4
5
8' - 0"
5
6
8' - 0"
7
8
8
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
3/32" = 1'-0"
A 3.00
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
3/32" = 1'-0"
EAST ELEVATION
3/32" = 1'-0"
WEST ELEVATION
ELEVATION NOTES
1
42" FALL PROTECTION GUARDRAIL AT ROOF, TYP.
2
CAST METAL BUILDING SIGNAGE, HT 18", DEPTH 2"
3
42" GUARDRAIL AT UNIT, TYP.
4
STAIR PENTHOUSE
5
8' TALL PRIVACY FENCE ALONG REAR PROPERTY
LINE, STEP FENCE WITH GRADE TO MAINTAIN 8'
HEIGHT
6
RAISED PLANTER @ REAR PL, TYP
7
EXTERIOR LIGHTING, TYP. SEE E 2.00 FOR
EXTERIOR LIGHTING PLANS, SCHEDULE & SPECS
8
3-DIMENSIONAL WALL RELIEF PILASTERS

--- page 98 ---
LOW GRADE
0' - 0"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
N. SAN MATEO DR
10' - 0"
71' - 9"
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
4' - 0"
11' - 0"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
13' - 9"
16' - 3"
HIGH POINT
75' - 11 1/2"
75' - 11 1/2" - BUILDING HEIGHT
1
2
3
4
4
7
LOW GRADE
0' - 0"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
N. SAN MATEO DR
10' - 0"
71' - 9"
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
4' - 0"
11' - 0"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
13' - 9"
16' - 3"
HIGH POINT
75' - 11 1/2"
75' - 11 1/2" - BUILDING HEIGHT
1
3
4
4
7
LOW GRADE
0' - 0"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
10' - 0"
71' - 9"
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
4' - 0"
11' - 0"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
13' - 9"
16' - 3"
HIGH POINT
75' - 11 1/2"
75' - 11 1/2" - BUILDING HEIGHT
1
3
7
SILL BAND
0' - 1 1/2"
0' - 4"
TYPICAL SILL BAND DETAIL 
AT STUCCO WALL
EXTERIOR
INTERIOR
WINDOW FRAME
WALL ASSEMBLY
0' - 3" MIN
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 3.01
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
3/32" = 1'-0"
SOUTH ELEVATION
3/32" = 1'-0"
NORTH ELEVATION
3/32" = 1'-0"
2ND FLOOR COURTYARD - SOUTH ELEVATION
ELEVATION NOTES
1
42" FALL PROTECTION GUARDRAIL AT ROOF, TYP.
2
CAST METAL BUILDING SIGNAGE, HT 18", DEPTH 2"
3
42" GUARDRAIL AT UNIT, TYP.
4
STAIR PENTHOUSE
5
8' TALL PRIVACY FENCE ALONG REAR PROPERTY
LINE, STEP FENCE WITH GRADE TO MAINTAIN 8'
HEIGHT
6
RAISED PLANTER @ REAR PL, TYP
7
EXTERIOR LIGHTING, TYP. SEE E 2.00 FOR
EXTERIOR LIGHTING PLANS, SCHEDULE & SPECS
8
3-DIMENSIONAL WALL RELIEF PILASTERS

--- page 99 ---
LOW GRADE
0' - 0"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
10' - 0"
73' - 4"
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
4' - 0"
11' - 0"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
13' - 9"
16' - 3"
HIGH POINT
75' - 11 1/2"
75' - 11 1/2" - BUILDING HEIGHT
1
3
4
4
7
LOW GRADE
0' - 0"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
73' - 4"
10' - 0"
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
16' - 3"
13' - 9"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
11' - 0"
4' - 0"
HIGH POINT
75' - 11 1/2"
75' - 11 1/2" - BUILDING HEIGHT
1
4
7
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
3/32" = 1'-0"
A 3.02
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
3/32" = 1'-0"
2ND FLOOR COURTYARD - WEST ELEVATION
3/32" = 1'-0"
2ND FLOOR COURTYARD - EAST ELEVATION
ELEVATION NOTES
1
42" FALL PROTECTION GUARDRAIL AT ROOF, TYP.
2
CAST METAL BUILDING SIGNAGE, HT 18", DEPTH 2"
3
42" GUARDRAIL AT UNIT, TYP.
4
STAIR PENTHOUSE
5
8' TALL PRIVACY FENCE ALONG REAR PROPERTY
LINE, STEP FENCE WITH GRADE TO MAINTAIN 8'
HEIGHT
6
RAISED PLANTER @ REAR PL, TYP
7
EXTERIOR LIGHTING, TYP. SEE E 2.00 FOR
EXTERIOR LIGHTING PLANS, SCHEDULE & SPECS
8
3-DIMENSIONAL WALL RELIEF PILASTERS

--- page 100 ---
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
10' - 0"
71' - 9"
UNITS
PARKING
UTILITY
AMENITY
PARKING
15' - 7"
12' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 6"
CORR.
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
4' - 0"
11' - 0"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
13' - 9"
UTILITY
CORR.
CORR.
1
2
2
1' - 6"
0' - 8"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
13' - 9"
16' - 3"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
10' - 0"
71' - 9"
POOL
UNITS
PARKING
UTILITY
AMENITY
PARKING
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
4' - 0"
11' - 0"
20' - 6"
10' - 3"
13' - 9"
16' - 3"
10' - 3"
11' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
12' - 6"
15' - 7"
2
2
2
1
1' - 6"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
13' - 9"
16' - 3"
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
3/32" = 1'-0"
A 3.50
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
LONGITUDINAL SECTIONS
3/32" = 1'-0"
LONGITUDINAL SECTION THROUGH NORTHERN VOLUME
3/32" = 1'-0"
LONGITUDINAL SECTION THROUGH SOUTH VOLUME
SECTION NOTES
1
42" FALL PROTECTION GUARDRAIL AT ROOF, TYP.
2
STAIR PENTHOUSE

--- page 101 ---
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
N. SAN MATEO DR
STAIR 2
UNITS
UNITS
PARKING
PARKING
COURTYARD
10' - 0"
71' - 9"
10' - 3"
CORR.
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
9' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
12' - 6"
15' - 7"
2
1
1' - 6"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
13' - 9"
16' - 3"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
N. SAN MATEO DR
UNITS
AMENITY
PARKING
PARKING
COURTYARD
10' - 0"
71' - 9"
10' - 3"
CORR.
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
9' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
12' - 6"
15' - 7"
8' - 9"
2
2
1
1' - 6"
10' - 3"
16' - 3"
13' - 9"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
N. SAN MATEO DR
UNITS
UNITS
AMENITY
PARKING
COURTYARD
PARKING
10' - 0"
71' - 9"
10' - 3"
15' - 7"
12' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 6"
CORR.
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
1
2
2
8' - 9"
1' - 6"
10' - 3"
16' - 3"
13' - 9"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
N. SAN MATEO DR
POOL
SPA
UNITS
AMENITY
PARKING
10' - 0"
71' - 9"
10' - 3"
UTILITY
CORR.
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
9' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
12' - 6"
14' - 3"
10' - 4"
2
2
1
1' - 3"
11' - 7"
14' - 11"
13' - 9"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
3/32" = 1'-0"
A 3.60
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
TRANSVERSE SECTIONS
3/32" = 1'-0"
TRANSVERSE SECTION 3
3/32" = 1'-0"
TRANSVERSE SECTION 1
3/32" = 1'-0"
TRANSVERSE SECTION 2
3/32" = 1'-0"
TRANSVERSE SECTION 4
SECTION NOTES
1
42" FALL PROTECTION GUARDRAIL AT ROOF, TYP.
2
STAIR PENTHOUSE

--- page 102 ---
1A2
UA
UB
UB
UB
UB
UB
UB
3RD-5TH FLOOR
1A2
1A2
1C1
S
2A2
2C3
2B1
3A
2C1
2C1
1B1
2B2
2C4
2B3
2C2
2A3
2A1
1A2
1C2
1A2
1A2
1A1
1A1
1A1
1A1
1A1
1A1
UA
UB
UA
UA
UA
UA
UA
1ST FLOOR
2G
1A2
1A2
UC
SB
1C4
2D
UB
UB
UB
UB
UB
UB
2ND FLOOR
3A
2C1
2C1
1B1
2B2
2C4
2B3
1A1
1A1
1A1
1A1
1A1
1A1
2C3
2A2
S
1C1
1A2
1A2
1A2
1A2
1A2
1C2
1A2
2A1
UB
UB
6TH FLOOR
1A2
1A1
1A2
1A3
1B1
1C1
1C2
1C3
1C4
2A1
2A2
2A3
2B1
2B2
2B3
2C1
2C2
2C3
2C4
2D
2E
2F
2G
2H
3A
S
SB
UA
UB
UC
2E
1B1
2C1
2C1
2H
2C3
1A3
S
1C1
1A2
1A2
1A2
1A2
1C2
S
1A2
1C3
2A3
2C2
2F
S
S
1A1
1A1
1A1
1A1
1A1
1A1
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
1/64" = 1'-0"
A 6.40
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
UNIT TYPES - ALL
NOTE:
SEE SHEET A8.01 FOR EXTERIOR WINDOW SIZES
UNIT NAMES & TYPES
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
% TYPE
AREA ALLOCATED
% AREA
UNIT AREA
MIN...MAX (SF)
BEDROOM
S
TOTAL
BEDROOMS
BATHS
TOTAL
BATHS
1A1
1 BEDROOM
30
16.6%
23131 SF
15%
740  ...  877
1
30
1
30
1A2
1 BEDROOM
32
17.7%
25855 SF
17%
731  ...  954
1
32
1
32
1A3
1 BEDROOM
1
0.6%
761 SF
0%
761
1
1
1
1
1B1
1 BEDROOM
5
2.8%
3498 SF
2%
688  ...  704
1
5
1
5
1C1
1 BEDROOM
5
2.8%
2962 SF
2%
582  ...  597
1
5
1
5
1C2
1 BEDROOM
5
2.8%
3685 SF
2%
642  ...  785
1
5
1
5
1C3
2 BEDROOM
1
0.6%
814 SF
1%
814
2
2
1
1
1C4
1 BEDROOM
1
0.6%
656 SF
0%
656
1
1
1
1
2A1
2 BEDROOM
4
2.2%
4409 SF
3%
1099  ...  1108
2
8
2
8
2A2
2 BEDROOM
4
2.2%
4129 SF
3%
1028  ...  1034
2
8
2
8
2A3
2 BEDROOM
4
2.2%
3928 SF
3%
982
2
8
2
8
2B1
2 BEDROOM
3
1.7%
3302 SF
2%
1099  ...  1102
2
6
2
6
2B2
2 BEDROOM
4
2.2%
4594 SF
3%
1147  ...  1152
2
8
2
8
2B3
2 BEDROOM
4
2.2%
4265 SF
3%
1066  ...  1067
2
8
2
8
2C1
2 BEDROOM
10
5.5%
9714 SF
6%
961  ...  982
2
20
2
20
2C2
2 BEDROOM
4
2.2%
4247 SF
3%
1061  ...  1062
2
8
2
8
2C3
2 BEDROOM
5
2.8%
5882 SF
4%
1164  ...  1184
2
10
2
10
2C4
2 BEDROOM
4
2.2%
4368 SF
3%
1092
2
8
2
8
2D
2 BEDROOM
1
0.6%
1237 SF
1%
1237
2
2
2
2
2E
2 BEDROOM
1
0.6%
1045 SF
1%
1045
2
2
2
2
2F
2 BEDROOM
1
0.6%
986 SF
1%
986
2
2
2
2
2G
2 BEDROOM
1
0.6%
1427 SF
1%
1427
2
2
2
2
2H
2 BEDROOM
1
0.6%
1240 SF
1%
1240
2
2
2
2
3A
3 BEDROOM
4
2.2%
5975 SF
4%
1491  ...  1500
3
12
2
8
S
STUDIO
8
4.4%
4735 SF
3%
570  ...  607
1
8
1
8
SB
STUDIO
1
0.6%
533 SF
0%
533
1
1
1
1
UA
URBAN 1 BED
9
5.0%
6106 SF
4%
614  ...  753
1
9
1
9
UB
URBAN 1 BED
27
14.9%
18087 SF
12%
632  ...  773
1
27
1
27
UC
URBAN 1 BED
1
0.6%
838 SF
1%
838
1
1
1
1
TOTALS
181
100.0%
152408 SF
100%
241
236
ALL UNITS PROVIDED WITH REQUIRED WATER CLOSET, LAVATORY, BATHTUB/SHOWER, KITCHEN SINK & 
CLOTHES WASHER CONNECTION PER CPC 422, SEE TABLE ABOVE FOR # OF FACILITIES PROVIDED BY UNIT 
TYPE. ACCESSIBLE BATHROOMS PLACED THROUGHOUT COMMON SPACES FOR CONVENIENCE, SEE PLANS. 
UNIT KEY PLANS - BY FLOOR

--- page 103 ---
UA
3RD-5TH FLOOR
S
UA
UA
UA
UA
UA
UA
1ST FLOOR
2ND FLOOR
S
6TH FLOOR
S
S
S
S
A 6.B1
1
SIM
A 6.K1
1
SIM
6' - 9 1/2"
2' - 0"
10' - 7 1/4"
14' - 0 1/2"
9' - 6 1/2"
2' - 8 1/4"
2' - 7"
28' - 0 1/2"
16' - 8"
3' - 0"
6' - 8 1/2"
4' - 4 1/2"
3' - 0"
8' - 2 3/4"
5' - 0"
5' - 0"
2' - 0"
1.0A
6' - 8 1/2"
4' - 4 1/2"
4' - 10"
3' - 0"
8' - 2 3/4"
5' - 0"
5' - 0"
3' - 0"
2' - 0"
3' - 0"
1' - 11 3/4"
2' - 2"
LIVING / DINING
KITCHEN
BEDROOM 1
BATH 1
W/D
A 6.B1
1
SIM
6' - 8"
25' - 9"
9' - 6 1/2"
1' - 9 1/2"
6' - 3 1/2"
3' - 0"
19' - 2"
8' - 1 1/2"
9' - 6"
2' - 8 1/4"
1' - 11 3/4"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
4' - 11"
5' - 0"
3' - 8 1/4"
6' - 2 1/2"
2.0A
2.1A
KITCHEN
LIVING / DINING
BED 1
BATH 1
W/D
UA
S
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 6.50
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
UNIT TYPES S AND UA
UNIT TYPE S
UNIT TYPE UA
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE UA - ENLARGED PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE UA - RCP
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE S - RCP
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE S - ENLARGED PLAN
NOTE:
SEE SHEET A8.01 FOR EXTERIOR WINDOW SIZES
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
S
STUDIO
8
570  ...  607
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
UA
URBAN 1 BED
9
614  ...  753
TBD
TBD

--- page 104 ---
UB
UB
UB
UB
UB
UB
3RD-5TH FLOOR
UB
1ST FLOOR
UC
UB
UB
UB
UB
UB
UB
2ND FLOOR
UB
UB
6TH FLOOR
6' - 9 1/2"
2' - 0"
10' - 7 1/4"
11' - 5 3/4"
9' - 6 1/2"
1' - 11 1/2"
7' - 2 3/4"
25' - 5 3/4"
17' - 8 3/4"
8' - 9 3/4"
6' - 7 1/2"
5' - 0"
3' - 2 1/4"
5' - 0"
4' - 11"
3' - 0"
1' - 11 3/4"
3' - 0"
3' - 1 1/2"
5' - 0"
3.0A
KITCHEN
LIVING / DINING
BEDROOM 1
BATH 1
W/D
A 6.B1
1
SIM
A 6.K1
1
SIM
6' - 6"
10' - 5 1/4"
10' - 10"
10' - 0"
22' - 1 1/4"
9' - 5 1/2"
7' - 10"
PRIVATE OUTDOOR SPACE
2' - 2"
3' - 0"
2' - 11"
3' - 0 1/2"
1' - 8"
2' - 10"
2' - 10"
4' - 11"
3' - 10"
3' - 4 3/4"
3' - 0"
6' - 2 1/4"
5' - 0"
4' - 10 1/2"
11' - 3"
1' - 11"
15.0B
7' - 4 1/2"
11' - 8"
5' - 4"
KITCHEN
LIVING / DINING
BEDROOM 1
BATH 1
UB
UC
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 6.51
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
UNIT TYPES UB AND UC
UNIT TYPE UB
UNIT TYPE UC
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE UB - ENLARGED PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE UB - RCP
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE UC - RCP
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE UC - ENLARGED PLAN
NOTE:
SEE SHEET A8.01 FOR EXTERIOR WINDOW SIZES
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
UC
URBAN 1 BED
1
838
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
UB
URBAN 1 BED
27
632  ...  773
TBD
TBD

--- page 105 ---
3RD-5TH FLOOR
1A2
1A2
1A2
1A2
1A2
1A2
1A1
1A1
1A1
1A1
1A1
1A1
1ST FLOOR
1A2
1A2
2ND FLOOR
1A2
1A2
1A2
1A2
1A2
1A2
1A1
1A1
1A1
1A1
1A1
1A1
6TH FLOOR
1A2
1A2
1A2
1A2
1A2
1A2
1A1
1A1
1A1
1A1
1A1
1A1
6' - 6"
8' - 4 3/4"
11' - 6 1/2"
7' - 2 3/4"
12' - 8"
12' - 9 1/2"
6' - 5 1/4"
5' - 1"
9' - 9 3/4"
9' - 9 3/4"
11' - 11 1/4"
PRIVATE OPEN SPACE
4' - 5"
4' - 5"
2' - 10 3/4"
2' - 2 3/4"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
5' - 5 3/4"
3' - 0"
3' - 0 1/4"
3' - 0"
2.0A
3' - 0"
1' - 11 1/2"
1' - 9"
3' - 0"
LIVING / DINING
KITCHEN
BEDROOM 1
BATH 1
OFFICE
A 6.K1
5
SIM
A 6.B1
10
SIM
6' - 6"
8' - 4 3/4"
12' - 8 1/4"
9' - 10"
12' - 8"
12' - 8"
17' - 9 1/4"
9' - 10"
12' - 9 1/4"
3' - 2 1/2"
4' - 7"
3' - 5"
1' - 11"
3' - 0"
4' - 3 3/4"
4' - 3 3/4"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
4' - 1 3/4"
3' - 0"
4' - 11"
3' - 0"
2' - 1 1/2"
3' - 0"
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
KITCHEN
LIVING / DINING
BEDROOM 1
BATH 1
A 6.K1
5
SIM
A 6.B1
10
SIM
1A1
1A2
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 6.52
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
UNIT TYPES 1A1 AND 1A2
UNIT TYPE 1A1
UNIT TYPE 1A2
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 1A2 - ENLARGED PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 1A2 - RCP
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 1A1 - ENLARGED PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 1A1 - RCP
NOTE:
SEE SHEET A8.01 FOR EXTERIOR WINDOW SIZES
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
1A2
1 BEDROOM
32
731  ...  954
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
1A1
1 BEDROOM
30
740  ...  877
TBD
TBD

--- page 106 ---
3RD-5TH FLOOR
1B1
1ST FLOOR
2ND FLOOR
1B1
6TH FLOOR
1B1
1A3
10' - 2"
9' - 11 3/4"
6' - 5"
6' - 8 1/4"
19' - 6 1/4"
17' - 3 1/2"
10' - 5 1/2"
14' - 4"
1' - 10 1/4"
3' - 0"
8' - 1 3/4"
3' - 0"
3' - 4"
5' - 0"
4' - 9 1/4"
3' - 0"
1' - 9"
4' - 6"
7' - 9 1/2"
4' - 7 3/4"
5' - 4 1/4"
7' - 9"
3' - 0"
1.0A
2.0A
22.0
2.0A
3' - 0"
KITCHEN
LIVING / DINING
BATH 1
BEDROOM 1
A 6.B1
9
SIM
A 6.K1
1
SIM
10' - 0"
17' - 8"
10' - 4"
7' - 0 1/4"
24' - 11"
17' - 8"
10' - 0"
4' - 6"
6' - 0 1/2"
3.0A
2.1A
3.0A
2.1A
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
6' - 10 1/2"
3' - 0"
5' - 0"
5' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
8' - 3"
3' - 0"
5' - 0"
4' - 9 1/2"
3' - 6 1/2"
7' - 0 3/4"
6' - 2 1/4"
KITCHEN
LIVING / DINING
BEDROOM 1
BATH 1
A 6.K1
5
SIM
A 6.B1
10
SIM
1A3
1B1
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 6.53
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
UNIT TYPES 1A3 AND 1B1
UNIT TYPE 1A3
UNIT TYPE 1B1
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 1B1 - RCP
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 1B1 - ENLARGED PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 1A3 - RCP
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 1A3 - ENLARGED PLAN
NOTE:
SEE SHEET A8.01 FOR EXTERIOR WINDOW SIZES
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
1A3
1 BEDROOM
1
761
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
1B1
1 BEDROOM
5
688  ...  704
TBD
TBD

--- page 107 ---
3RD-5TH FLOOR
1C1
1C2
1ST FLOOR
2ND FLOOR
1C1
1C2
6TH FLOOR
1C1
1C2
5' - 3 1/4"
2' - 2"
13' - 7 1/4"
20' - 8 3/4"
13' - 5 1/4"
10' - 0"
14' - 9 1/4"
2' - 0"
9' - 4"
8' - 10 1/2"
1.0A
1.0A
3' - 11 1/2"
5' - 0"
3' - 7"
15' - 6"
2' - 10"
2' - 10"
8' - 10 1/2"
2' - 11"
3' - 8 1/4"
5' - 0"
1' - 9"
4' - 11 1/2"
3' - 0"
1' - 8"
7' - 0 3/4"
BEDROOM 1
BATH 1
KITCHEN
LIVING / DINING
A 6.K1
1
SIM
A 6.B1
8
SIM
5' - 8 1/2"
6' - 6"
16' - 4 1/2"
16' - 0 1/4"
9' - 6 1/2"
12' - 2 1/4"
8' - 1 1/4"
2' - 0"
3' - 7 1/4"
9' - 6"
6' - 4 1/4"
6' - 0 1/4"
3.0A
2.0A
2' - 9"
3' - 0"
3' - 5 3/4"
6' - 0"
11 3/4"
3' - 0"
2' - 10"
1' - 8"
3' - 10"
3' - 0"
4' - 10"
1' - 10 1/4"
2' - 10"
3' - 0"
PRIVATE OUTDOOR SPACE
LIVING / DINING
KITCHEN
BEDROOM 1
BATH 1
W/D
A 6.K1
1
SIM
A 6.B1
9
SIM
1C1
1C2
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 6.54
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
UNIT TYPES 1C1 AND 1C2
UNIT TYPE 1C1
UNIT TYPE 1C2
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 1C2 - ENLARGED PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 1C2 - RCP
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 1C1 - ENLARGED PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 1C1 - RCP
NOTE:
SEE SHEET A8.01 FOR EXTERIOR WINDOW SIZES
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
1C2
1 BEDROOM
5
642  ...  785
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
1C1
1 BEDROOM
5
582  ...  597
TBD
TBD

--- page 108 ---
3RD-5TH FLOOR
1ST FLOOR
1C4
2ND FLOOR
6TH FLOOR
1C3
11' - 7 3/4"
10' - 9 1/4"
2' - 7 1/2"
6' - 6"
9' - 6"
17' - 11 1/4"
8' - 7"
6' - 10 1/4"
6' - 0 1/2"
22' - 1 1/2"
4' - 5 3/4"
10.0B
9' - 11 3/4"
12.0B
2' - 10"
5' - 0"
4' - 10"
3' - 11 3/4"
3' - 0"
2' - 11"
1.0D
2' - 11 3/4"
BEDROOM 1
BATH 1
KITCHEN
LIVING / DINING
A 6.K1
1
SIM
6' - 6 1/2"
5' - 0"
12' - 0 3/4"
10' - 0"
15' - 8 1/4"
15' - 5 1/2"
12' - 0 1/2"
5' - 2 1/2"
7' - 2 1/2"
4' - 8"
6' - 1"
6' - 1"
2.1A
3.0A
3.0A
2' - 11 1/4"
3' - 0"
2' - 1"
2' - 11"
3' - 11 3/4"
2' - 11"
3' - 0"
4' - 1 3/4"
4' - 9 1/2"
3' - 0"
9' - 6 1/2"
2' - 10"
4' - 9"
8 1/2"
3' - 0"
15' - 8 1/4"
7' - 7"
BEDROOM 1
BATH 1
KITCHEN
LIVING / DINING
A 6.K1
5
SIM
W/D
1C3
1C4
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 6.55
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
UNIT TYPES 1C3 AND 1C4
UNIT TYPE 1C3
UNIT TYPE 1C4
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 1C4 - ENLARGED PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 1C4 - RCP
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 1C3 - ENLARGED PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 1C3 - RCP
NOTE:
SEE SHEET A8.01 FOR EXTERIOR WINDOW SIZES
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
1C4
1 BEDROOM
1
656
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
1C3
2 BEDROOM
1
814
TBD
TBD

--- page 109 ---
3RD-5TH FLOOR
2A2
2A1
1ST FLOOR
2ND FLOOR
2A2
2A1
6TH FLOOR
6' - 1 3/4"
9' - 11 1/2"
6' - 0"
10' - 9 1/2"
10' - 11 3/4"
2' - 0 1/4"
10' - 2"
20' - 11"
21' - 5 1/2"
7' - 8"
1.0A
2.0A
3' - 3 3/4"
6' - 0"
4' - 10"
1' - 8 1/2"
2.0A
3' - 0"
7' - 5 3/4"
2.0A
2' - 5"
3' - 0"
9' - 4 1/4"
6' - 0"
3' - 5 1/2"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 5"
3' - 5 1/2"
5' - 9 1/4"
3' - 10 3/4"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
2.0A
4' - 7 3/4"
4' - 5 3/4"
3' - 0"
6' - 11 1/2"
5' - 6 3/4"
6' - 11 1/2"
6' - 6"
8' - 8"
BEDROOM 1
BEDROOM 2
BATH 1
BATH 2
PRIVATE 
OUTDOOR SPACE
KITCHEN
LIVING / DINING
A 6.K1
5
SIM
4' - 4 1/4"
3' - 4"
6' - 6 1/4"
1' - 6"
2' - 1"
3' - 6"
7' - 9"
3' - 4 1/2"
13' - 5 3/4"
9' - 7 3/4"
2' - 0"
11' - 6 3/4"
10' - 0 1/4"
5' - 0"
9' - 1 3/4"
7' - 0 3/4"
5' - 9 3/4"
20' - 9 1/4"
5' - 5 1/2"
5' - 4"
6' - 8 3/4"
2' - 11 3/4"
5' - 0"
3' - 6 3/4"
9' - 6 3/4"
5' - 10 1/4"
2.0A
1.0A
11' - 2"
3' - 0"
10' - 3 1/2"
2' - 4"
1' - 7"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
5' - 4 3/4"
2' - 9"
2' - 9"
5' - 4 3/4"
3' - 0"
1' - 7 3/4"
2' - 10"
2.0A
3.0A
3' - 0"
5' - 6 1/4"
10' - 10"
12' - 6 1/4"
20' - 9 1/4"
2.0C
BEDROOM 2
BEDROOM 1
BATH 1
BATH 2
KITCHEN
LIVING / DINING
A 6.K1
1
SIM
A 6.B1
11
SIM
A 6.B1
9
SIM
PRIVATE 
OUTDOOR SPACE
2A2
2A1
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 6.56
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
UNIT TYPES 2A1 AND 2A2
UNIT TYPE 2A1
UNIT TYPE 2A2
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2A1 - ENLARGED PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2A1 - RCP
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2A2 - ENLARGED PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2A2 - RCP
NOTE:
SEE SHEET A8.01 FOR EXTERIOR WINDOW SIZES
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
2A1
2 BEDROOM
4
1099  ...  1108
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
2A2
2 BEDROOM
4
1028  ...  1034
TBD
TBD

--- page 110 ---
3RD-5TH FLOOR
2B1
2A3
1ST FLOOR
2ND FLOOR
6TH FLOOR
2A3
12' - 0 1/4"
2' - 0 1/4"
10' - 3 3/4"
10' - 6"
5' - 2"
7' - 7 1/2"
4' - 2 1/4"
2' - 2"
8' - 0"
6' - 6"
18' - 11 1/2"
12' - 10 1/2"
19' - 5 3/4"
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
3.0A
2.0A
8' - 6"
4' - 3"
3' - 8 1/2"
2' - 5"
2' - 3 1/4"
3' - 6 1/2"
1.0A
1.0A
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
4' - 7 1/2"
4' - 10 3/4"
5' - 7"
2' - 8"
3' - 0"
3' - 8"
5' - 0"
1' - 9"
1' - 9"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 7"
3' - 7"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
1' - 6 1/4"
2' - 6"
4' - 9"
3' - 0"
2' - 8 1/4"
2' - 6"
8' - 2"
3' - 0"
9' - 6"
KITCHEN
A 6.K1
1
SIM
LIVING / DINING
BEDROOM 1
BATH 1
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
PRIVATE 
OUTDOOR 
SPACE
10' - 6 1/4"
19' - 5 1/4"
13' - 11"
12' - 8"
6' - 6"
9' - 9 1/4"
11' - 3 1/2"
5' - 0 1/4"
6' - 3 1/2"
10' - 4 1/4"
10' - 6 1/4"
2' - 10 1/2"
6' - 0"
3.0A
2.0A
4' - 10"
4' - 10"
2' - 11"
2' - 11"
9' - 7 1/4"
3' - 0"
6' - 0"
4' - 0 1/2"
6' - 4 1/4"
2.0A
3' - 3 3/4"
5' - 0"
8' - 8"
2' - 10"
3' - 3"
6' - 11 3/4"
8' - 2 1/2"
3' - 0"
2' - 3"
2' - 10"
KITCHEN
LIVING / DINING
BEDROOM 1
BATH 1
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
A 6.K1
5
SIM
2A3
2B1
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 6.57
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
UNIT TYPES 2A3 AND 2B1
UNIT TYPE 2A3
UNIT TYPE 2B1
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2A3 - ENLARGED PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2A3 - RCP
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2B1 - ENLARGED PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2B1 - RCP
NOTE:
SEE SHEET A8.01 FOR EXTERIOR WINDOW SIZES
TBD
TBD
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
2A3
2 BEDROOM
4
982
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
2B1
2 BEDROOM
3
1099  ...  1102

--- page 111 ---
3RD-5TH FLOOR
2B2
2B3
1ST FLOOR
2ND FLOOR
2B2
2B3
6TH FLOOR
12' - 8 3/4"
11' - 9"
22' - 6 3/4"
10' - 7 1/4"
10' - 0 1/2"
5' - 0 1/4"
5' - 9 1/2"
10' - 0 1/4"
10' - 7"
2' - 3 1/4"
6' - 10 1/4"
12' - 7 3/4"
6' - 7"
5' - 3 1/4"
3' - 3"
3.1A
2.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.0A
3' - 0 3/4"
5' - 6"
2' - 10"
3' - 1 3/4"
5' - 0"
1' - 8"
2' - 10"
4' - 11"
4' - 11"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
8' - 3 1/2"
3' - 0"
5' - 6 1/2"
11' - 8"
6' - 4 1/2"
2' - 0"
3' - 0"
KITCHEN
LIVING / DINING
BATH 2
BEDROOM 1
BATH 1
BEDROOM 2
A 6.K1
5
SIM
14' - 9 3/4"
10' - 11 1/2"
5' - 0 3/4"
16' - 11 3/4"
6' - 1 1/2"
10' - 2"
9' - 11 3/4"
2' - 0 1/4"
5' - 6 3/4"
6' - 2"
10' - 0 3/4"
21' - 5 1/4"
5' - 1 1/4"
3' - 4 1/2"
5' - 0"
3' - 3"
3.1A
21.0AA
2.0A
3.0A
1.0A
3.0A
2.0A
4' - 3 3/4"
8' - 10"
2' - 10"
7' - 7 3/4"
2' - 10"
5' - 0"
3' - 5 3/4"
5' - 9 1/2"
4' - 3"
8' - 11 1/2"
5' - 7 3/4"
11' - 8"
6' - 2 3/4"
2' - 10"
1' - 9"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
2' - 7"
9' - 7 3/4"
3' - 0"
9' - 3 1/2"
KITCHEN
LIVING / DINING
BATH 2
BATH 1
BEDROOM 1
BEDROOM 2
A 6.K1
1
SIM
2B2
2B3
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 6.58
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
UNIT TYPES 2B2 AND 2B3
UNIT TYPE 2B2
UNIT TYPE 2B3
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2B2 - ENLARGED PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2B2 - RCP
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2B3 - ENLARGED PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2B3 - RCP
NOTE:
SEE SHEET A8.01 FOR EXTERIOR WINDOW SIZES
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
2B2
2 BEDROOM
4
1147  ...  1152
TBD
TBD
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
2B3
2 BEDROOM
4
1066  ...  1067

--- page 112 ---
3RD-5TH FLOOR
2C1
2C1
2C2
1ST FLOOR
2ND FLOOR
2C1
2C1
6TH FLOOR
2C1
2C1
2C2
10' - 10 1/4"
6' - 0"
10' - 5 3/4"
13' - 3 3/4"
10' - 6 3/4"
10' - 0"
6' - 6"
6' - 1 3/4"
2' - 2 1/2"
13' - 3 3/4"
10' - 3 3/4"
7' - 2 1/4"
4' - 7 1/2"
4' - 7 1/2"
3' - 7 1/2"
5' - 2 1/2"
3' - 6 1/4"
3' - 6 1/4"
4' - 10 1/2"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 3 1/2"
7' - 9 1/2"
8' - 1"
3' - 0"
4' - 5 3/4"
2' - 10"
1' - 0 1/2"
1' - 8"
3' - 3"
2' - 10"
3' - 0"
6' - 0"
4' - 7 1/2"
4' - 7 1/2"
3' - 7 1/2"
5' - 2 1/2"
3' - 6 1/4"
3' - 6 1/4"
4' - 10 1/2"
1.0A
2.0A
2.0A
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
21.0AA
3' - 3 1/2"
7' - 9 1/2"
8' - 1"
3' - 0"
2.1A
4' - 5 3/4"
2' - 10"
1' - 0 1/2"
1' - 8"
3' - 3"
2' - 10"
2' - 5 1/4"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
2' - 0"
KITCHEN
LIVING / DINING
BATH 1
BEDROOM 1
BATH 2
BEDROOM 2
A 6.K1
5
SIM
A 6.B1
1
SIM
W/D
16' - 5 1/2"
5' - 4 3/4"
6' - 0"
8' - 11 1/2"
14' - 8 3/4"
10' - 6"
5' - 2 3/4"
6' - 6"
5' - 0"
10' - 6 3/4"
10' - 6"
13' - 0 3/4"
10' - 9 1/4"
4' - 7"
3' - 5"
5' - 8 1/2"
1.0A
2.0A
3' - 0"
8' - 9 3/4"
12' - 5 1/2"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
4' - 3"
4' - 3"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
4' - 0 1/2"
4' - 0 1/2"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
12' - 1 1/2"
4' - 6"
6' - 11 3/4"
2' - 6 3/4"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
2' - 2"
3' - 0"
7' - 10"
KITCHEN
LIVING / DINING
A 6.K1
5
SIM
BATH 1
BEDROOM 1
BATH 2
BEDROOM 2
2C1
2C2
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 6.59
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
UNIT TYPES 2C1 AND 2C2
UNIT TYPE 2C1
UNIT TYPE 2C2
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2C1 - ENLARGED PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2C2 - ENLARGED PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2C2 - RCP
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2C1 - RCP
NOTE:
SEE SHEET A8.01 FOR EXTERIOR WINDOW SIZES
TBD
TBD
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
2C2
2 BEDROOM
4
1061  ...  1062
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
2C1
2 BEDROOM
10
961  ...  982

--- page 113 ---
3RD-5TH FLOOR
2C4
2C3
1ST FLOOR
2ND FLOOR
2C3
2C4
6TH FLOOR
2C3
12' - 0 3/4"
5' - 6"
7' - 0 1/4"
9' - 11 1/2"
9' - 1 3/4"
8' - 6 3/4"
6' - 6"
5' - 0"
10' - 9 3/4"
10' - 0 1/2"
13' - 0"
9' - 11 1/2"
4' - 11 1/2"
4' - 11 1/2"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 3 1/4"
11' - 7 3/4"
5' - 1 1/4"
2' - 2 3/4"
3' - 0"
4' - 11"
4' - 11"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
1' - 9 1/4"
3' - 0"
2' - 2"
3' - 0"
2' - 10"
3' - 3"
5' - 0"
2' - 0"
2' - 10"
3' - 8 3/4"
3' - 4"
5' - 2 3/4"
1.0A
3.0A
2.0A
21.0AA
3' - 0"
KITCHEN
BATH 1
BEDROOM 1
BATH 2
BEDROOM 2
A 6.K1
5
SIM
10' - 0 1/4"
11' - 11 1/4"
6' - 0"
7' - 0 1/4"
9' - 2 3/4"
12' - 9 3/4"
10' - 0 1/4"
6' - 11 1/4"
5' - 11 1/2"
6' - 6"
11' - 3 3/4"
10' - 0 1/4"
13' - 5 1/4"
5' - 0"
7' - 3 1/4"
2' - 2"
8' - 0 1/4"
11' - 7"
3' - 0"
6' - 9"
10' - 2 1/4"
3' - 0"
4' - 8"
4' - 8"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
4' - 6"
4' - 6"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
2' - 10"
3' - 11"
3' - 0"
3' - 3 1/2"
2' - 10"
2.0A
3.0A
2.0A
KITCHEN
BATH 1
BEDROOM 2
A 6.K1
5
SIM
LIVING / DINING
BATH 2
BEDROOM 1
PRIVATE 
OUTDOOR 
SPACE
A 6.B1
10
SIM
2C3
2C4
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 6.60
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
UNIT TYPES 2C3 AND 2C4
UNIT TYPE 2C3
UNIT TYPE 2C4
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2C3 - RCP
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2C4 - RCP
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2C4 - ENLARGED PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2C3 - ENLARGED PLAN
NOTE:
SEE SHEET A8.01 FOR EXTERIOR WINDOW SIZES
TBD
TBD
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
2C4
2 BEDROOM
4
1092
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
2C3
2 BEDROOM
5
1164  ...  1184

--- page 114 ---
8' - 11 1/2"
6' - 6"
4' - 11 1/2"
10' - 8 3/4"
9' - 7"
10' - 6"
12' - 8 1/2"
10' - 5 3/4"
8' - 7"
7' - 0 1/4"
4' - 11 1/2"
10' - 8 1/4"
10' - 5 3/4"
1' - 10"
2' - 10"
5' - 9 1/2"
5' - 9 1/2"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 1 3/4"
4' - 5"
3' - 0"
5' - 3 3/4"
5' - 3 3/4"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
8' - 11 3/4"
1' - 9"
3' - 0"
1' - 9"
3' - 0"
2' - 9"
3' - 8 3/4"
2' - 10"
2' - 10"
2' - 0"
10.0A
12.0A
12.0A
6' - 0"
1' - 11 1/4"
4' - 10"
KITCHEN
LIVING / DINING
BEDROOM 1
BATH 1
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
A 6.K1
5
SIM
A 6.B1
10
SIM
2D
1ST FLOOR
2ND FLOOR
3RD-5TH FLOOR
6TH FLOOR
2E
21' - 5 1/2"
11' - 8 1/4"
9' - 11 1/4"
4' - 11 3/4"
7' - 8 1/4"
12' - 4 1/4"
6' - 5 3/4"
10' - 0"
1' - 11 3/4"
10' - 2 1/4"
13' - 8 1/2"
5' - 4"
5' - 7 1/2"
8' - 3 1/2"
2' - 10"
4' - 0 1/4"
2' - 10"
4' - 0 1/4"
2' - 10"
3' - 11"
3' - 0 1/2"
5' - 0"
5' - 2 3/4"
3' - 9"
2' - 10"
2' - 10"
8' - 4"
2' - 10"
3.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
3' - 0"
7' - 8 3/4"
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
BEDROOM 1
BATH 1
KITCHEN
LIVING
DINING
A 6.K1
5
SIM
A 6.B1
8
SIM
2D
2E
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 6.61
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
UNIT TYPES 2D AND 2E
UNIT TYPE 2D
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2D - RCP
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2D - ENLARGED PLAN
NOTE:
SEE SHEET A8.01 FOR EXTERIOR WINDOW SIZES
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2E - ENLARGED PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2E - RCP
TBD
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
2D
2 BEDROOM
1
1237
UNIT TYPE 2E
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
2E
2 BEDROOM
1
1045

--- page 115 ---
3RD-5TH FLOOR
1ST FLOOR
2G
2ND FLOOR
6TH FLOOR
2F
10' - 6 1/2"
5' - 0"
7' - 0"
6' - 6"
9' - 6"
3' - 0"
10' - 0 3/4"
19' - 8 1/2"
17' - 0 1/2"
10' - 6"
2' - 0"
10' - 0"
6' - 8 3/4"
4' - 10 3/4"
3' - 0"
3' - 9 1/4"
3' - 0"
5' - 3 3/4"
5' - 3 3/4"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
8' - 0"
3' - 8 3/4"
6' - 0"
1' - 8"
3' - 2 1/4" 1' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 7 3/4"
1' - 10"
2' - 6"
3' - 0"
1' - 7"
3' - 0"
5' - 0 1/2"
1.0A
1.0A
2.0A
1' - 11 3/4"
3' - 0"
9' - 10 1/2"
BEDROOM 2
LIVING / DINING
KITCHEN
BEDROOM 1
BATH 1
BATH 2
A 6.K1
1
SIM
A 6.B1
1
SIM
12' - 9"
6' - 8 3/4"
9' - 7 1/2"
5' - 1 3/4"
6' - 0"
5' - 0"
9' - 7 1/4"
10' - 4"
9' - 11 1/4"
15' - 7 1/2"
7' - 11"
3' - 6"
2' - 1"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
2' - 6"
2' - 1 3/4"
3' - 0"
2' - 3"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
2' - 0"
3' - 0"
2' - 4 1/2"
3' - 0"
2' - 2 1/2"
3' - 0"
5' - 7"
5' - 7"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
4' - 8"
5' - 1 3/4"
12.0A
13.0A
13.1A
11.0A
19' - 1"
4' - 10 1/2"
3' - 3"
8' - 2 1/2"
28' - 9 1/4"
BEDROOM 2
BEDROOM 1
BATH 1
BATH 2
KITCHEN
LIVING / DINING
A 6.K1
5
SIM
2F
2G
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2G - ENLARGED PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2G - RCP
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 6.62
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
UNIT TYPES 2F AND 2G
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2F - RCP
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2F - ENLARGED PLAN
NOTE:
SEE SHEET A8.01 FOR EXTERIOR WINDOW SIZES
TBD
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
2F
2 BEDROOM
1
986
UNIT TYPE 2F
UNIT TYPE 2G
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
2G
2 BEDROOM
1
1427
TBD

--- page 116 ---
3RD-5TH FLOOR
3A
1ST FLOOR
2ND FLOOR
3A
6TH FLOOR
2H
5' - 7 1/4"
7' - 1"
10' - 0"
2' - 0"
5' - 8"
5' - 0"
5' - 0"
17' - 0 3/4"
10' - 3 1/4"
7' - 2 1/4"
13' - 7"
10' - 3 1/4"
11' - 8"
17' - 7"
3' - 0"
5' - 2 1/4"
3' - 0"
1' - 10"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
4' - 10 1/4"
4' - 10 1/4"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
4' - 8"
6' - 2"
3' - 8"
2' - 11 3/4"
4' - 7 1/4"
2' - 1 1/2"
3' - 10 1/2"
4' - 9 1/2"
7' - 3"
1' - 9"
3' - 0"
4' - 7"
3' - 11 1/4"
3' - 0"
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
3.0A
3.0A
5' - 1 3/4"
8' - 3 1/4"
7' - 11 1/4"
BEDROOM 1
BATH 1
KITCHEN
BEDROOM 2
BATH 2
A 6.K1
1
SIM
A 6.B1
1
SIM
23' - 7 3/4"
10' - 0"
10' - 3 1/2"
10' - 7 1/2"
5' - 0"
9' - 7"
6' - 5 1/2"
21' - 10"
10' - 10 1/2"
11' - 8"
5' - 6"
6' - 0"
6' - 6"
7' - 10 1/2"
6' - 5 3/4"
9' - 1 1/4"
6' - 6 3/4"
10' - 8 3/4"
9' - 6 3/4"
5' - 10 3/4"
4' - 7"
5' - 11 3/4"
4' - 7 1/4"
9' - 2 1/4"
5' - 1 1/2"
9' - 11"
2' - 10"
3' - 0"
5' - 1"
3' - 6 1/2"
2' - 10"
2' - 10"
4' - 0"
4' - 5 1/2"
4' - 5 1/2"
2' - 10"
2' - 10"
3' - 0"
7' - 10 3/4"
3' - 0"
4' - 3"
2' - 10"
5' - 3 1/2"
2' - 10"
1' - 8"
2' - 10"
3.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.0A
2.0A
5' - 6 3/4"
3' - 0"
KITCHEN
BEDROOM 1
BATH 1
BEDROOM 2
BEDROOM 3
BATH 2
A 6.K1
1
SIM
2H
3A
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 3A - RCP
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 3A - ENLARGED PLAN
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 6.63
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
UNIT TYPES 2H AND 3A
NOTE:
SEE SHEET A8.01 FOR EXTERIOR WINDOW SIZES
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2H - ENLARGED PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
UNIT TYPE 2H - RCP TBD
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
2H
2 BEDROOM
1
1240
UNIT TYPE 2H
UNIT TYPE 3A
UNIT NAME
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
MIN .. MAX SF
3A
3 BEDROOM
4
1491  ...  1500
TBD

--- page 117 ---
A 6.B1
3
4
5
6
6' - 2 1/4"
10' - 0 1/2"
REF-A BATH GRAPHIC LEGEND
CLEARANCE AT BATH SINK
FORWARD APPROACH 
CLEARANCE - 30" x 48" 
CENTERED ON FIXTURE
PARALLEL APPROACH 
CLEARANCE - 48" x 30" 
CENTERED ON FIXTURE
REMOVABLE BASE 
CLEARANCE - 30" WIDE
CLEARANCE AT TUB
PARALLEL APPROACH 
CLEARANCE - 48" x 30" 
EDGE OF PARALLEL 
APPROACH FLUSH WITH 
COTROL END OF TUB PER 
1134A.5 #1
CLEARANCE AT TOILET
GRAB BAR BLKG
BLOCKING FOR GRAB BARS
REINFORCED WALLS FOR FUTURE 
INSTALLATION OF GRAB BARS.  SEE 
DETAILS ON SHEET A0.04 FOR TYPICAL 
GRAB BAR REINFORCEMENT DIAGRAMS.
GRAB BAR AT TOILET
REINFORCED WALLS FOR GRAB BARS FOR 
FUTURE INSTALLATION OF FOLDAWAY 
GRAB BAR. SEE DETAIL 13/A1.02 FOR 
REINFORCEMENTDIAGRAMS.
15"
24"
24"
24" MIN CLR TO 
CENTERLINE OF 
FIXTURE PER 1134A.8 #1
17"/ 18"
24"
18"
36" MIN. CLR
48" MIN CLR
CLEARANCE AT TOILET PER 
CBC SEC 1134A.7 #1 EXCEPTION
RESIDENTIAL BATH  REFERENCES
BATH REF-A
CBC SECTION 1134A.2 OPTION 2 ITEMS 1-12 BATH
CBC SECTION 1134A.2 OPTION 2 ITEMS 8-12 BATH
BATH REF-B
MAX. DEEP WING WALL, 
PRIVACY WALL, 
LAVATORY, OR CABINET
36" MIN CLR
KITCHEN WORK SURFACE CLEARANCE
48" x 30" CLEARANCE AT WORK 
SURFACE FOR PARALLEL OR 
FORWARD APPROACH
ACCESSIBILITY LEGEND
SCALE: 1/2" = 1'-0"
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
1/2" = 1'-0"
A 6.B1
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
BATH TYPES 1 AND 2
BATH 1
BATH 2
1/2" = 1'-0"
1
BATH TYPE A1.1 - ENLARGED PLAN
1/2" = 1'-0"
3
BATH TYPE 1 - ELEVATION
1/2" = 1'-0"
4
BATH TYPE 1 - ELEVATION
1/2" = 1'-0"
2
BATH TYPE 1 - RCP
1/2" = 1'-0"
5
BATH TYPE 1 - ELEVATION
1/2" = 1'-0"
6
BATH TYPE 1 - ELEVATION
1/2" = 1'-0"
8
BATH TYPE A1.2 - ENLARGED PLAN
1/2" = 1'-0"
9
BATH TYPE A2 - ENLARGED PLAN
1/2" = 1'-0"
10 BATH TYPE A1.3 - ENLARGED PLAN
1/2" = 1'-0"
11 BATH TYPE B1 - ENLARGED PLAN

--- page 118 ---
A 6.K1
2
3
SINK CLEARANCE
48" x 30"
DW CLEARANCE
48" x 30"
RANGE CLEARANCE
48" x 30"
FRIDGE CLEARANCE
48" x 30"
3' - 0"
2' - 0"
1' - 6"
2' - 6"
2' - 0"
8' - 4"
3' - 4"
BACKSPLASH
2' - 0"
36" COUNTER MAX AFF
3' - 0"
PANEL 
FRONT 
DW
PANEL 
FRONT 
FREEZER
PANEL 
FRONT 
FRIDGE
SLAB BACKSPLASH
BREADBOARD
1' - 6"
BREADBOARD
2' - 0"
2' - 0"
W REMOTE CTRL
CONCEALED HOOD
2' - 6"
1' - 6"
2' - 0"
3' - 0"
2' - 6"
OUTLETS AND SWITCHES
3' - 6" - MAX 44" AFF
RANGE 
AND OVEN
BASE CABINET
30" REMOVABLE
2"
13' - 10"
2' - 6"
A 6.K1
B
C
A
A 6.K1
D
REF-A BATH GRAPHIC LEGEND
CLEARANCE AT BATH SINK
FORWARD APPROACH 
CLEARANCE - 30" x 48" 
CENTERED ON FIXTURE
PARALLEL APPROACH 
CLEARANCE - 48" x 30" 
CENTERED ON FIXTURE
REMOVABLE BASE 
CLEARANCE - 30" WIDE
CLEARANCE AT TUB
PARALLEL APPROACH 
CLEARANCE - 48" x 30" 
EDGE OF PARALLEL 
APPROACH FLUSH WITH 
COTROL END OF TUB PER 
1134A.5 #1
CLEARANCE AT TOILET
GRAB BAR BLKG
BLOCKING FOR GRAB BARS
REINFORCED WALLS FOR FUTURE 
INSTALLATION OF GRAB BARS.  SEE 
DETAILS ON SHEET A0.04 FOR TYPICAL 
GRAB BAR REINFORCEMENT DIAGRAMS.
GRAB BAR AT TOILET
REINFORCED WALLS FOR GRAB BARS FOR 
FUTURE INSTALLATION OF FOLDAWAY 
GRAB BAR. SEE DETAIL 13/A1.02 FOR 
REINFORCEMENTDIAGRAMS.
15"
24"
24"
24" MIN CLR TO 
CENTERLINE OF 
FIXTURE PER 1134A.8 #1
17"/ 18"
24"
18"
36" MIN. CLR
48" MIN CLR
CLEARANCE AT TOILET PER 
CBC SEC 1134A.7 #1 EXCEPTION
RESIDENTIAL BATH  REFERENCES
BATH REF-A
CBC SECTION 1134A.2 OPTION 2 ITEMS 1-12 BATH
CBC SECTION 1134A.2 OPTION 2 ITEMS 8-12 BATH
BATH REF-B
MAX. DEEP WING WALL, 
PRIVACY WALL, 
LAVATORY, OR CABINET
36" MIN CLR
KITCHEN WORK SURFACE CLEARANCE
48" x 30" CLEARANCE AT WORK 
SURFACE FOR PARALLEL OR 
FORWARD APPROACH
ACCESSIBILITY LEGEND
SCALE: 1/2" = 1'-0"
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
1/2" = 1'-0"
A 6.K1
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
KITCHEN TYPES 1 AND 2
KITCHEN 1
1/2" = 1'-0"
1
KITCHEN TYPE 1 - ENLARGED PLAN
1/2" = 1'-0"
2
KITCHEN TYPE 1 - ELEVATION
1/2" = 1'-0"
3
KITCHEN TYPE 1 - ELEVATION
1/2" = 1'-0"
5
KITCHEN TYPE 2 - ENLARGED PLAN
KITCHEN 2
1/2" = 1'-0"
A
KITCHEN TYPE 2 - ELEVATION A
1/2" = 1'-0"
B
Elevation 1 - a
1/2" = 1'-0"
C Elevation 1 - d
1/2" = 1'-0"
D Elevation 2 - a

--- page 119 ---
05B
GR1
GR1
GR2
SEE 
STOREFRONT 
SCHEDULE
SEE 
STOREFRONT 
SCHEDULE
04B
13.1A
11.0A
06B
04C
11.0B
11.0B
04C
04C
11.0B
11.0B
04C
11.0B
04C
04C
15.0B
15.0B
11.0B
15.0B
04C
11.0B
11.0B
04C
10.0B
12.0A
06A
05A
04B
12.0A
10.0A
10.0A
04B
15.0A
12.1A
04B
05AA
04B
12.0A
13.0A
05D
05C
1.0D
12.0B
05D
05D
05A
14.0
15.0B
1.0C
2.0C
2.0C
3.0C
2.0C
2.0C
2.0C
2.0C
3.0C
2.0C
3.0C
2.0C
3.0C
2.0C
1.0C
1.0C
1.0C
2.1C
2.0C
1.0C
3.0C
3.0C
3.0C
2.0C
2.0C
2.0C
2.0C
3.0C
3.0C
1.0C
2.0C
1.0C
3.0C
2.0C
2.0C
2.0C
3.0C
2.0C
1.0C
1.0C
2.0C
2.0C
3.0C
3.0C
3.0C
2.0C
2.0C
1.0C
2.0C
3.0C
24.0
1.0C
24.0
24.0
2.0C
001
1.0CC
001
001
001
001
001
001
04A
1.0CC
04A
04A
04A
04A
2.0C
03B
ELB
01A
01A
01A
01A
01A
01A
2.0C
01A
08B
03B
03B
03B
03B
03B
06B
04A
2.0C
04A
2.0C
2.0C
2.1C
2.0C
2.0C
2.0C
2.0C
2.0C
2.0C
2.0C
24.0
1.0C
1.0C
2.0C
03B
24.0
1.0C
1.0C 1.0C
01A
2.0C
2.0C
2.0C
01A
1.0C
1.0C
2.0C
1.0C
1.0C
2.0C
1.0C
1.0C
1.0C
2.0C
01A
08B
SEE STOREFRONT SCHEDULE
SEE 
STOREFRONT 
SCHEDULE
SEE 
STOREFRONT 
SCHEDULE
1.0C
2.1C
1.0C
1.0C
1.0C
1.0C
1.0C
1.0C
23.0
2.0A
3.0A
2.0A
1.0A
1.0A
2.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.0A
2.1A
3.0A
2.0A
2.0A
1.0A
2.0A
1.0A
1.0A
3.0A
2.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
2.0A
1.0A
1.0A
3.0A
1.0A
3.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.0A
2.0A
3.0A
3.0A
1.0A
2.0A
1.0A
3.0A
2.0A
3.0A
1.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.0A
1.0A
2.0A
2.0C
21.0AA
3.1A
21.0AA
3.1A
2.1A
2.1A
1.0AA
001
001
001
001
001
001
001
001
1.0AA
001
01A
01A
2.0A
001
001
002
002
002
002
002
002
002
2.0A
2.0A
03A
03A
03A
03A
03A
03A
001
2.0A
2.0A
001
1.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.1A
2.1A
1.0A
2.0A
2.0A
01A
2.0A
2.0A
01A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
22.0
1.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
06A
ELA
21.0AA
21.0AA
1.0A
001
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
001
001
002
1.0A
1.0A
002
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
001
1.0A
1.0A
03A
2.0A
03A
08A
25.0B
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.10
21.0A
1.0A
1.0A
2.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.1A
2.1A
1.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.0A
2.1A
3.0A
2.0A
2.0A
1.0A
3.0A
1.0A
1.0A
2.0A
1.0A
2.0A
2.0A
1.0A
2.0A
1.0A
1.0A
2.0A
1.0A
1.0A
2.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
3.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.0A
2.0A
3.0A
3.0A
1.0A
2.0A
1.0A
3.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
1.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
3.0A
3.0A
2.0A
1.0A
2.0A
2.0C
001
2.0A
2.0A
001
001
001
001
001
001
001
001
001
1.0AA
2.0A
01A
01A
2.0A
01A
2.0A
22.0
01A
2.0A
001
21.0AA
03A
3.1A
03A
21.0AA
3.1A
03A
03A
06A
2.1A
03A
21.0AA
2.1A
03A
21.0AA
03A
03A
001
2.0A
001
001
2.0A
002
1.0A
002
1.0A
002
002
002
002
1.0A
001
2.0A
001
001
1.0A
001
1.0A
1.0AA
001
1.0A
2.0A
08A
25.0B
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.10
21.0A
1.0A
1.0A
2.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.1A
2.1A
1.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.0A
2.1A
3.0A
2.0A
2.0A
1.0A
3.0A
1.0A
1.0A
2.0A
1.0A
2.0A
2.0A
1.0A
1.0A
2.0A
1.0A
3.0A
2.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
3.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.0A
2.0A
3.0A
3.0A
1.0A
2.0A
1.0A
3.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
1.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
3.0A
3.0A
2.0A
1.0A
2.0A
2.0C
1.0AA
001
2.0A
2.0A
001
001
001
001
001
001
001
1.0AA
01A
2.0A
01A
2.0A
2.0A
01A
22.0
01A
2.0A
001
21.0AA
03A
3.1A
03A
21.0AA
3.1A
03A
03A
06A
2.1A
03A
03A
21.0AA
03A
2.0A
03A
08A
001
2.0A
1.0A
001
001
2.0A
002
002
002
002
002
002
1.0A
001
2.0A
001
001
1.0A
1.0A
001
001
1.0A
21.0AA
2.1A
25.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
1.10
21.0A
1.0A
3.0A
2.1A
3.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.1A
1.0A
2.1A
2.1A
1.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.0A
2.1A
3.0A
1.0B
2.0B
2.0B
2.0B
1.0B
1.0B
2.0B
3.0B
1.0A
3.0A
1.0A
2.0A
1.0A
2.0A
1.0A
1.0A
3.0A
3.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
1.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.0A
3.0A
2.1A
2.1A
3.0A
001
001
001
001
001
1.0A
001
08A
001
1.0A
1.0A
08A
001
2.0A
001
3.0C
2.1A
001
001
001
001
001
001
001
001
001
001
001
2.1A
001
2.1A
1.0AA
001
2.0A
01A
2.0A
01A
2.0A
01A
22.0
2.0A
01A
007
001
2.0A
002
002
03A
03A
03A
03A
21.0AA
03B
1.0AA
1.0A
1.0A
2.0A
01A
1.0A
06A
21.0AA
1.0A
1.0A 1.0A
1.0A 1.0A
1.0A
001
1.0A 1.0A
001
2.0A
1.0A 1.0A
2.0A
2.0A
1.0A 1.0A
010
011
010
009
1.0B
1.0A
1.0A
1.0A
21.0A
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
3/64" = 1'-0"
A 8.00
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
EXTERIOR DOOR AND
WINDOW KEY PLANS
3/64" = 1'-0"
1ST FLOOR - WINDOW/DOOR PLAN
3/64" = 1'-0"
2ND FLOOR - WINDOW/DOOR PLAN
3/64" = 1'-0"
3RD FLOOR - WINDOW/DOOR PLAN
3/64" = 1'-0"
4TH FLOOR - WINDOW/DOOR PLAN
3/64" = 1'-0"
5TH FLOOR - WINDOW/DOOR PLAN
3/64" = 1'-0"
6TH FLOOR -WINDOW/DOOR PLAN

--- page 120 ---
3' - 6"
4' - 6"
6' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
2.1A
8' - 0"
X
O
X
O
6' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
5' - 0"
2.0A
8' - 0"
X
O
O
X
1.0A
3' - 0"
8' - 0"
3' - 0"
5' - 0"
X
O
1.0C
3'-0"
10'-0"
2'-0"
8'-0"
X
O
2.0C
6' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
2' - 0"
8' - 0"
10' - 0"
X
O
O
X
2.1C
1' - 0" 2' - 6"
7' - 6"
10' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
6' - 0"
X
O
X
O
3.0C
9' - 0"
10' - 0"
2' - 0"
8' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
X
O
X
O
O
O
3.0A
8' - 0"
3' - 0"
5' - 0"
9' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
X
O
O
O
X
O
1.0B
9' - 0"
3' - 0"
6' - 0"
3' - 0"
X
O
9' - 0"
3' - 0"
6' - 0"
6' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
2.0B
X
O
O
X
3.0B
9' - 0"
3' - 0"
6' - 0"
9' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
X
O
O
O
X
O
24.0
3'-0"
8' - 0"
XF
X
3' - 6"
6' - 6"
3' - 0"
23.0
1i
1i
GRAPHIC LEGEND
EXTERIOR DOOR SCHEDULE, 
SEE A8.00 AND A8.01
WALL ASSEMBLIES, SEE A5.00, 
A5.01
WINDOW SCHEDULE, SEE A8.00 
AND A8.01
1t
FLOOR AND ROOF ASSEMBLIES, 
SEE A5.10
INTERIOR DOOR SCHEDULE, 
SEE A8.10
1
1
KEY NOTES
O = INOPERABLE
X = OPERABLE
F = FROSTED
X
3' - 0"
3' - 6"
4' - 6"
21.0A
3.1A
3' - 6"
4' - 6"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
9' - 0"
8' - 0"
X
O
O
O
X
O
X
O
3' - 6"
4' - 6"
8' - 0"
3' - 0"
1.10
5'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
22.0
X F
2' - 0"
6' - 0"
5' - 0"
11' - 0"
3' - 0"
1.0D
X
O
7' - 0"
7' - 10"
25.0B
O
6' - 0"
7' - 10"
25.0A
O
11.0A
3' - 4"
6' - 0"
3' - 8"
2' - 0"
4' - 0"
6' - 0"
O
O
X
9' - 8"
O
11.0B
2' - 0"
6' - 0"
5' - 0"
11' - 0"
4' - 0"
2' - 0"
6' - 0"
O
O
X
O
15.0B
11' - 0"
4' - 0"
2' - 0"
6' - 0"
5' - 0"
O
X
10.0B
2' - 0"
6' - 0"
5' - 0"
11' - 0"
2' - 0"
O
O
9' - 8"
3' - 8"
6' - 0"
3' - 4"
2' - 0"
4' - 0"
2' - 0"
8' - 0"
12.0A
O
X
O
X
O
O
3' - 4"
6' - 0"
3' - 8"
9' - 8"
2' - 0"
10.0A
O
X
15.0A
4' - 0"
3' - 4"
9' - 8"
O
X
3' - 4"
6' - 0"
3' - 8"
9' - 8"
2' - 0"
4' - 10"
2' - 0"
8' - 10"
12.1A
O
X
O
X
O
O
3' - 8"
6' - 0"
3' - 4"
9' - 8"
2' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
2' - 0"
10' - 0"
13.0A
O
X
O
X
O
O
O
O
12.0B
5' - 0"
6' - 0"
2' - 0"
11' - 0"
2' - 0"
4' - 0"
2' - 0"
8' - 0"
O
X
O
X
O
O
13.1A
3' - 4"
6' - 0"
3' - 8"
2' - 0"
4' - 0"
4' - 0"
2' - 0"
12' - 0"
9' - 8"
O
X
O
X
O
O
O
O
3' - 3"
3' - 3"
14.0
3' - 8"
6' - 0"
3' - 4"
9' - 8"
6' - 6"
O
O
O
O
3' - 6"
4' - 6"
3' - 0"
21.0AA
XF
1.0CC
8' - 0"
2' - 0"
10' - 0"
3' - 0"
O
O
O
O
5' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
1.0AA
8' - 0"
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
1/4" = 1'-0"
A 8.01
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
EXTERIOR WINDOW
SCHEDULE
WINDOW SCHEDULE
Type
Name
Count
Operation
Width
Height
Sill Height
Comments
1.0A
157
CASEMENT, FIXED
3' - 0"
8' - 0"
0' - 0"
1.0AA
8
FIXED
3' - 0"
8' - 0"
0' - 0"
1.0B
4
CASEMENT, FIXED
3' - 0"
9' - 0"
0' - 0"
1.0C
30
CASEMENT, FIXED
3' - 0"
10' - 0"
<varies>
1.0CC
2
FIXED
3' - 0"
10' - 0"
1' - 0"
1.0D
1
CASEMENT, FIXED
3' - 0"
11' - 0"
2' - 0"
1.10
3
CASEMENT, FIXED
3' - 0"
8' - 0"
0' - 0"
2.0A
158
CASEMENT, FIXED
6' - 0"
8' - 0"
<varies>
2.0B
4
CASEMENT, FIXED
6' - 0"
9' - 0"
0' - 0"
2.0C
47
CASEMENT, FIXED
6' - 0"
10' - 0"
<varies>
2.1A
25
CASEMENT, FIXED
6' - 0"
8' - 0"
0' - 0"
2.1C
3
CASEMENT, FIXED
6' - 0"
10' - 0"
1' - 0"
3.0A
54
CASEMENT, FIXED
9' - 0"
8' - 0"
<varies>
3.0B
1
CASEMENT, FIXED
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
0' - 0"
3.0C
16
CASEMENT, FIXED
9' - 0"
10' - 0"
<varies>
3.1A
6
CASEMENT, FIXED
9' - 0"
8' - 0"
0' - 0"
10.0A
2
CASEMENT, FIXED
2' - 0"
9' - 8"
3' - 4"
10.0B
1
FIXED
2' - 0"
11' - 0"
2' - 0"
11.0A
1
CASEMENT, FIXED
6' - 0"
9' - 8"
3' - 4"
11.0B
8
CASEMENT, FIXED
6' - 0"
11' - 0"
2' - 0"
12.0A
3
CASEMENT, FIXED
8' - 0"
9' - 8"
3' - 4"
12.0B
1
CASEMENT, FIXED
8' - 0"
11' - 0"
2' - 0"
12.1A
1
CASEMENT, FIXED
8' - 10"
9' - 8"
3' - 4"
13.0A
1
CASEMENT, FIXED
10' - 0"
9' - 8"
3' - 4"
13.1A
1
CASEMENT, FIXED
12' - 0"
9' - 8"
3' - 4"
14.0
1
FIXED
6' - 6"
9' - 8"
3' - 4"
15.0A
1
CASEMENT, FIXED
4' - 0"
9' - 8"
3' - 4"
15.0B
4
CASEMENT, FIXED
4' - 0"
11' - 0"
2' - 0"
21.0A
4
CASEMENT
3' - 0"
4' - 6"
3' - 6"
21.0AA
14
CASEMENT
3' - 0"
4' - 6"
3' - 6"
FROSTED
22.0
4
CASEMENT
3' - 0"
5' - 0"
3' - 0"
FROSTED
23.0
1
CASEMENT
3' - 0"
6' - 6"
3' - 6"
24.0
5
CASEMENT
3' - 0"
8' - 0"
<varies>
FROSTED
25.0A
1
FIXED
7' - 10"
6' - 0"
2' - 0"
25.0B
2
FIXED
7' - 10"
7' - 0"
2' - 0"

--- page 121 ---
1i
1i
GRAPHIC LEGEND
EXTERIOR DOOR SCHEDULE, 
SEE A8.00 AND A8.01
WALL ASSEMBLIES, SEE A5.00, 
A5.01
WINDOW SCHEDULE, SEE A8.00 
AND A8.01
1t
FLOOR AND ROOF ASSEMBLIES, 
SEE A5.10
INTERIOR DOOR SCHEDULE, 
SEE A8.10
1
1
KEY NOTES
O = INOPERABLE
X = OPERABLE
F = FROSTED
04C
8' - 0"
5' - 0"
13' - 0"
3' - 0"
05A
4' - 0"
8' - 0"
3' - 7 3/4"
4' - 11 3/4"
05D
9' - 0"
3' - 6"
05B
4' - 0"
8' - 0"
5' - 0"
F
F
010
11' - 0"
25' - 0"
011
18' - 0"
11' - 0"
04A
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
8' - 0"
01A
8' - 0"
3' - 0"
03B
10'-0"
3'-0"
1'-6"
4'-0"
08B
10' - 0"
3'-0"
06B
10' - 0"
06A
3'-0"
8'-0"
08A
4'-0"
8'-0"
002
8' - 0"
6' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
03A
3'-0"
1'-6"
8'-0"
007
3'-6"
8' - 0"
8' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 7 3/4"
04B
009
8' - 0"
6' - 0"
3' - 0"
3' - 0"
14' - 0"
14' - 7"
GR1
12' - 0"
20' - 0"
GR2
05C
4' - 0"
9' - 0"
5' - 2 3/4"
05AA
8' - 0"
3' - 7 3/4"
4' - 0"
F
F
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
1/4" = 1'-0"
A 8.02
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
EXTERIOR DOOR SCHEDULE
EXTERIOR DOOR SCHEDULE
TYPE
NAME
Count
Operation
Width
Height
Comments
01A
17
SWING
3' - 0"
8' - 0"
002
23
SLIDER
6' - 0"
8' - 0"
03A
35
SWING
3' - 0"
8' - 0"
03B
8
SWING
3' - 0"
10' - 0"
04A
7
SWING
3' - 0"
8' - 0"
04B
5
SWING
3' - 0"
8' - 0"
04C
8
SWING
3' - 0"
8' - 0"
05A
2
SWING
4' - 0"
8' - 0"
RESIDENTIAL ENTRY/MUDDY PAWS ENTRY W/ KEY-CARD ACCESS
05AA
1
SWING
4' - 0"
8' - 0"
EGRESS DOOR, FROSTED LITE
05B
1
SWING
4' - 0"
8' - 0"
EGRESS DOOR, FROSTED LITE
05C
1
SWING
4' - 0"
9' - 0"
RESIDENTIAL ENTRY W/ KEY-CARD ACCESS
05D
3
SWING
3' - 6"
9' - 0"
06A
5
SWING
3' - 0"
8' - 0"
06B
2
SWING
3' - 0"
10' - 0"
007
1
SWING
3' - 6"
8' - 0"
08A
5
SWING
4' - 0"
8' - 0"
08B
2
SWING
4' - 0"
10' - 0"
009
1
DOUBLE SWING
6' - 0"
8' - 0"
010
2
MULTI-SLIDE
25' - 0"
11' - 0"
011
1
MULTI-SLIDE
18' - 0"
11' - 0"
ELA
4
ELEVATOR DOOR
6' - 0"
8' - 0"
ELEVATOR DOOR BY ELEVATOR MANUFACTURER
ELB
1
ELEVATOR DOOR
6' - 0"
10' - 0"
ELEVATOR DOOR BY ELEVATOR MANUFACTURER
GR1
2
GARAGE DOOR
14' - 0"
14' - 7"
GR2
1
GARAGE DOOR
20' - 0"
12' - 0"

--- page 122 ---
1i
1i
GRAPHIC LEGEND
EXTERIOR DOOR SCHEDULE, 
SEE A8.00 AND A8.01
WALL ASSEMBLIES, SEE A5.00, 
A5.01
WINDOW SCHEDULE, SEE A8.00 
AND A8.01
1t
FLOOR AND ROOF ASSEMBLIES, 
SEE A5.10
INTERIOR DOOR SCHEDULE, 
SEE A8.10
1
1
KEY NOTES
O = INOPERABLE
X = OPERABLE
F = FROSTED
S01
S04
S05
S03
S02
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2' - 1"
7' - 11"
4' - 9"
6' - 6 3/4"
S05
S03
S02
S06
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
S01
23' - 7 1/4"
10' - 0"
4' - 7 3/4"
1' - 6 1/2"
8' - 0 3/4"
3' - 10"
3' - 10"
7' - 8"
LINE OF AWNING
8"
S02
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2' - 1"
7' - 11"
4' - 9"
21' - 0 3/4"
S04
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
LINE OF AWNING
10' - 0"
4' - 10 3/4"
1' - 6 1/2"
7' - 9 3/4"
S03
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
10' - 0"
64' - 9 1/2"
S06
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 8.03
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
EXTERIOR STOREFRONT
SCHEDULE
3/64" = 1'-0"
1ST FLOOR - STOREFRONT PLAN
3/64" = 1'-0"
2ND FLOOR - STOREFRONT PLAN

--- page 123 ---
N SAN MATEO DR
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
N SAN MATEO DR
VILLA TERRACE
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025A 9.00
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
AXONOMETRIC VIEWS
NE AXON
NW AXON
SE AXON
SW AXON

--- page 124 ---
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025A 9.01
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
PROJECT VISUALIZATION

--- page 125 ---
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025A 9.02
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
PROJECT VISUALIZATION

--- page 126 ---
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025A 9.03
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
PROJECT VISUALIZATION

--- page 127 ---
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025A 9.04
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
PROJECT VISUALIZATION

--- page 128 ---
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025A 9.05
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
PROJECT VISUALIZATION

--- page 129 ---
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025A 9.06
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
PROJECT VISUALIZATION

--- page 130 ---
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025A 9.07
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
LANDSCAPE VISUALIZATION

--- page 131 ---
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025A 9.08
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
LANDSCAPE VISUALIZATION

--- page 132 ---
BASEMENT LEVEL PARKING
PK 2.0B
PROMETHEUS
715 N SAN MATEO DR (FORD)
24-106
CLIENT NAME:
PROJECT NAME:
DATE ISSUED:
©  WATRY DESIGN, INC.  2025
PROJECT NUMBER:
SHEET NAME:
SHEET NUMBER:
09-22-25
Date:
E:
P:
Date:
Date:
A:
JC:
Date:
PLOTTED 09-22-25 13:19  tkim  p:\projects\2024\24106 san mateo ford site\2-wdi\4-prod\1-working\2-cad\24106-pk20b_2025-09-22.dwg
NPA Design Vehicle 
NPA Design Vehicle 
RAMP UP
827 SF
BOILER
STAIR 2
ELEV 1
ELEV 2
STAIR 1
BFPS AND PUMPS
ELEVATOR LOBBY
28'-0"
RAMP UP
64'-0"
32'-0"
0
16'-0"
SCALE: 1/16" = 1'-0"
24'-0"
8'-6"
17'-0"
STALL
8'-0"
23'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
2'-6"
TO PL
17'-0"
STALL
2'-2"
TO PL
142'-0"
8'-0"
18'-0"
STALL
18'-0"
STALL
24'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
18'-0"
STALL
18'-0"
STALL
24'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
18'-0"
STALL
T
T
8'-6"
24'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
8'-6"
18'-0"
STALL
24'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
18'-0"
STALL
BASEMENT LEVEL PARKING
1/16" = 1'-0"
T
22'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
8'-0"
24'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
8'-6"
9'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
T
24'-0"
9'-0"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
9'-3"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
10'-0"
10'-0"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-9"
8'-6"
9'-9"
3'-0"
8'-6"
8'-6"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
4'-812"
9'-0"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-0"
5'-11"
9'-0"
8'-6"
9'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
3'-0"
9'-6"
9'-6"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
9'-6"
9'-6"
8'-0"
9'-6"
9'-6"
8'-0"
9'-6"
9'-3"
9'-3"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
10'-0"
17'-0"
STALL
9'-6"
8'-0"
9'-6"
9'-6"
8'-0"
9'-6"
22'-0"
DRIVE AISLE
7.5%
17.5%
N
EL = -8'-8"
17'-0"
STALL
3'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-6"
8'-0"
9'-6"
9'-6"
8'-0"
9'-6"
9'-6"
8'-0"
9'-6"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
10'-0"
18" x 30" TYP.
18'-0"
18'-0"
9'-0"
22'-9"
DRIVE
AISLE
DESIGN REVIEW -
REV 2
11/07/25

--- page 133 ---
1ST LEVEL PARKING
PK 2.01
PROMETHEUS
715 N SAN MATEO DR (FORD)
24-106
CLIENT NAME:
PROJECT NAME:
DATE ISSUED:
©  WATRY DESIGN, INC.  2025
PROJECT NUMBER:
SHEET NAME:
SHEET NUMBER:
09-22-25
Date:
E:
P:
Date:
Date:
A:
JC:
Date:
PLOTTED 09-22-25 13:18  tkim  p:\projects\2024\24106 san mateo ford site\2-wdi\4-prod\1-working\2-cad\24106-pk201_2025-09-22.dwg
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
RAMP DN
BIKEPARKING
EVCS-L2
EV
READY
EV
READY
W/ 8' SIDE
AISLE
RAMP DN
38' - 0 1/2"
1
1
ELEV 1
LOBBY
FIRE COMMAND
MAIL/PACKAGE
64'-0"
32'-0"
0
16'-0"
SCALE: 1/16" = 1'-0"
OPEN
22'-9"
DRIVE
AISLE
6'-6"
24'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
18'-0"
STALL
18'-0"
STALL
18'-0"
STALL
24'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
18'-0"
STALL
24'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
N
N.   S A N   M A T E O
S T A T E   S T R E E T
V I L L A   T E R R A C E
18'-0"
STALL
18"
10'-0"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
3'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
3'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-6"
1ST LEVEL PARKING
1/16" = 1'-0"
7.5%
17.5%
EL = 1'-6 1/2"
18" X 30" COL, TYP.
17'-0"
STALL
W/ 8' SIDE
AISLE
EV
READY
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
28'-0"
24'-0"
10'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
18'-0"
STALL
22'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
EV
READY
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
DESIGN REVIEW -
REV 2
11/07/25

--- page 134 ---
1574 SF
BIKE PARKING
196 BIKES TOTAL
17' - 6"
CLR
5' - 0"
8' - 10"
DERO DUPLEX
6' - 3"
DERO DECKER
6' - 3"
BIKE FILE
4' - 3"
CLR
4' - 7"
DERO SWERVE
6' - 3"
36 BIKES
8 BIKES
70 BIKES
82 BIKES
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
1/4" = 1'-0"
BK 2.00
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
BIKE PARKING INFORMATION
1/4" = 1'-0"
1
BIKE ROOM PLAN
BIKE PARKING REQUIREMENTS
UNIT TYPE
COUNT
LONG TERM PARKING COUNT
SHORT TERM PARKING COUNT
STUDIO
9
9
0.45
URBAN 1 BED
37
37
1.85
1 BEDROOM
79
79
3.95
2 BEDROOM
52
65
5.2
3 BEDROOM
4
6
0.6
TOTALS
181
196
12.05
* BIKE PARKING CALCULATED PER SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE SEC. 27.64.262(f)(2)(A)
BICYCLE PARKING SPECIFICATIONS

--- page 135 ---
RAMP DN
V
V
V
V
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
ELEV 1
202 SF
FIRE
COMMAND
536 SF
MAIL/PACKAGE
1046 SF
LOBBY
921 SF
COWORKING
816 SF
ND/LEASING
25002 SF
PARKING
ELEV 2
1574 SF
BIKE PARKING
946 SF
TRASH ROOM
175 SF
MUDDY
PAWS
250 SF
POOL EQUIPMENT
1086 SF
MAINTENANCE
656 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C4
668 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
838 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UC
942 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
954 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
773 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
753 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
735 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
741 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1427 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2G
667 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
614 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1237 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2D
66 SF
IDF
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
N SAN MATEO
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
533 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: SB
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
RESIDENTIAL ENTRY
AUTO ENTRY AND EXIT
334' - 0" - OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH @ N. 1ST FLOOR
0' - 3" TO PL
162' - 10" - OVERALL BUILDING DEPTH @ 1ST FLOOR
2' - 0" TO PL
ELECTRIC
89' - 3"
19' - 11"
82' - 3"
158' - 0"
4' - 6"
148' - 10"
178' - 0"
4' - 0"
3' - 2" TO PL
330' - 11"
0' - 3" TO PL
30' - 8"
5' - 9"
23' - 2"
72' - 11"
TO PL
16' - 0"
118' - 7"
12' - 0" TO PL
CORRIDOR
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
196 BIKES
TRANSFORMER
TO PL
2' - 0"
MPOE
TO PL
5' - 0"
DERO BIKE FILE (36)
DERO DECKER (70)
DERO DUPLEX (82)
DERO SWERVE
RACK (8)
1' - 6 1/2"
1' - 6 1/2"
TREE 18 - 6x
ESTIMATED DBH
TREE 20 - 10x
ESTIMATED DBH
DN
1303 SF
ELECTRIC
ELECTRIC
SWITCH GEAR
SWITCH GEAR
15'-6"
10'-0"
30'-0"
1
1
21'-1"
23'-0"
38'-1"
23'-0"
45'-10"
220'-5"
94'-5"
109'-3"
8'-10"
9'-6"
47'-6"
KNOX BOX
LOCATION
(PV
OVERRIDE)
7'-0"
34'-5"
48'-4"
16'-9"
22'-10"
68'-6"
19'-0"
13'-0"
11'-10"
13'-0"
7'-9"
18'-5"
37'-1"
2
ELEC METER BANKS
ON EXT WALLS
21' - 5"
13' - 11"
9' - 4"
0' - 3"
1' - 6 1/2"
2' - 11"
STOOP, TYP.
6' - 0"  TO PL
TO PL
7"
TO PL
3' - 3"
TO PL
8' - 1"
TO PL
4' - 11"
TO PL
7"
TO PL
4' - 3"
TO PL
2' - 2"
TO PL
3' - 2"
TO PL
2' - 4"
193 SF
RESTROOMS
TO PL
2' - 0"
TOOL LOCKER
4' - 0"
2' - 0"
3/8" / 1'-0"
1/8" / 1'-0"
3/4" / 1'-0"
SECURITY GRILLE
SECURITY LIGHTING AND
SURVEILLANCE CAMERS TO BE
INSTALLED THROUGOUT
PARKING GARAGE
FOR PARKING LAYOUT
REFER TO SHEET PK 2.01
ø 40"
ø 16"
4' - 0"
3' - 2"
7' - 0"
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
R 21' - 8"
R 11' - 8"
HOT/COLD
HOSE BIB, SEE NOTE 11
F.D
3CY LOOSE  THRU
WALL
RECYCLE
3CY LOOSE
WASTE
3CY LOOSE
THRU - WALL
WASTE
6'-8"
3'-6"
6'-6"
3'-11"
AIR COMPRESSOR, WALL MOUNTED
SEE NOTE 9
SERVICE OUTLET,
SEE NOTE 9
4'-11"
3'-2"
3'-6"
14'-0" ROLL-UP DOOR
29'-4"
CHUTE MASTER
CONTROL, SEE NOTE 8
120V 15A SERVICE OUTLET. (TYP)
3'-4" WIDE
NFPA
COMPLIANT
EGRESS
DOOR
R
W
UNDEDICATED 120V 15A
SERVICE OUTLET. (TYP)
120V 15A SERVICE
OUTLET. (TYP), SEE NOTE, 10
ODOR CONTROL,
SEE NOTE, 10
3CY LOOSE  THRU
WALL
RECYCLE
3CY LOOSE  THRU
WALL
RECYCLE
3CY LOOSE  THRU
WALL
RECYCLE
3CY LOOSE
THRU - WALL
WASTE
2CY LOOSE
COMPOST
7'-1"
ADA FRONT APPROACH
(2) SELF CLOSING, 18 x 18 SH AUTOMATIC
OPENING DOOR, PER CBC
COMPOST
MT20 22" x 45.5" ELECTRIC
PALLET TRUCK
3'-0" ACCESS
DOOR
8'-3"
12'-2"
10'-3"
24'-4"
ADA FRONT APPROACH
3CY LOOSE
THRU - WALL
WASTE
25'-0"
7'-4"
SHEET NOTES:
TRASH ROUTE / STAGING PLAN. GROUND LEVEL.
1.
STAFF TO MOVE BINS TO TRASH STAGING AREA WITH MT20 22" x 45.5" ELECTRIC PALLET TRUCK.
GENERAL NOTES.
1.
ANY DESIGNS OR SOLUTIONS SHOWN IN DRAWING, EITHER DIRECT OR IMPLIED, ARE HEREBY CLARIFIED AS EXAMPLES AND SHALL
NOT BE CONSIDERED COMPLETE DESIGNS FOR CONSTRUCTION. THESE DRAWINGS ARE INTENDED TO SUPPLEMENT THE SUBMITTAL
PACKAGE FROM ARCHITECT.
2.
ANY PARTIAL INFORMATION, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURATE DESCRIPTIONS OF WORK SHOWN IN DRAWINGS, WHICH ARE NECESSARY
TO PERFORM THE SCOPE OF WORK, SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE CONTRACTOR FROM COMPLETION OF WORK. ALL WORK SHALL BE
PERFORMED TO SATISFY THE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS OF THE CURRENT APPLICABLE BUILDING CODES.
3.
CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD VERIFY ALL DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS PRIOR TO START OF CONSTRUCTION. THE ARCHITECT SHALL
BE PROMPTLY NOTIFIED OF ANY INCONSISTENCIES AND/OR DISCREPANCIES.
PATH OF TRAVEL LEGEND.
STAFF PATH OF TRAVEL FROM RESIDENTIAL TRASH ROOM TO
TRASH STAGING AREA.
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
PK, DU
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
11.07.2025
 3/32" = 1'-0"
TR0.1
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
TRASH ROUTE/STAGING
PLAN 1 LEVEL1
1/16" = 1'-0"
TRASH ROUTE /SERVICE PLAN - LEVEL 1
TRASH COLLECTION ROOM
FL TRUCK SERVICE
HAULER TO  TO PULL/ADJUST BINS FROM STAGING TO
TRUCK FOR SERVICE.

--- page 136 ---
DN
COURTYARD
POOL
SPA
WALKWAY ABOVE
WALKWAY ABOVE
LINE OF BLDG ABOVE
1034 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A2
606 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: S
588 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C1
743 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
857 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
858 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
857 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
708 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C2
685 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
634 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
731 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
1108 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A1
742 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
1983 SF
AMENITY/GYM
1184 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C3
767 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
740 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
757 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
756 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
755 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
877 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
672 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
672 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
CORRIDOR
ELEV 1
26 SF
IDF
1500 SF
3 BEDROOM
TYPE: 3A
977 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C1
965 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C1
703 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1B1
1148 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2B2
1092 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C4
1066 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2B3
690 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
STAIR 2
672 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
55 SF
IDF
ELEV 2
STAIR 3
N SAN MATEO
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
OPEN TO BELOW
STAIR 1
337'-5"- OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH @ 2ND FLOOR
1'-7"TO PL
0'-2"TO PL
154'-10"- OVERALL BUILDING DEPTH @ 2ND FLOOR
10'-0"TO PL
44'-8"
44'-8"
9'-8"
25'-6"
7'-6"
46'-7"
20'-0"
82'-3"
50'-1"
57'-0"
3'-1"
35'-10"
31'-4"
5'-5"
35'-0"
30'-9"
34'-3"
82'-3"
10'-5"
63'-1"
34'-11"
9'-11"
36'-8"
4'-8"
18'-3"
93'-0"TO PL
36'-2"
35'-8"
30'-0"
9'-10"
37'-6"
48'-0"
98'-6"
9'-0"
41'-0"
39'-8"
260'-2"
74'-2"TO PL
10'-0"TO PL
136'-8"
71'-10"
37'-11"
38'-5"
23'-2"
10'-3"
39'-8"
10'-0"
5'-9"
TO PL
10'-2"
GYM
WC
CANOPY
CANOPY
LINE OF
BUILDING
BELOW
64'-10"
29'-1"
7'-0"
24'-4"
7'-11"
7'-4"
7'-4"
16'-3"
10'-0"
11'-6"
10'-0"
11'-2"
10'-0"
10'-0"
11'-2"
20'-6"
20'-6"
18'-0"
18'-0"
22'-4"
22'-4"
19'-10"
19'-10"
IMAGINARY FIRE SEPARATION LINE
IMAGINARY FIRE SEPARATION LINE
2'-1"
MASON BRA-RED SOUND ISOLATION
PADS (4) TOTAL AT EA FLOOR
SUPPORT FRAME
(2) 30"Ø GALV. STEEL CHUTES
A36 L112" x 112" x 14 x SQUARE
FLOOR SUPPORT FRAMES
(2)15x18 B.H. INTAKE
DOORS, SEE NOTE 17
Ø5'-0" ADA
4'-11"
2'-0"
2'-0"
1'-10"
5'-9"
8'-11"
3'-0"
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
PK, DU
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
11.07.2025
 3/32" = 1'-0"
TR0.2
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
 1/16" = 1'-0"
LEVEL 2
CHUTE VESTIBULE
CHUTE VESTIBULE- SIM
AT UPPER LEVELS

--- page 137 ---
2'-1"
MASON BRA-RED SOUND ISOLATION
PADS (4) TOTAL AT EA FLOOR
SUPPORT FRAME
(2) 30"Ø GALV. STEEL CHUTES
A36 L112" x 112" x 14 x SQUARE
FLOOR SUPPORT FRAMES
(2)15x18 B.H. INTAKE
DOORS, SEE NOTE 17
Ø5'-0" ADA
4'-11"
2'-0"
2'-0"
1'-10"
5'-9"
8'-11"
3'-0"
946 SF
TRASH ROOM
21'-1"
23'-0"
38'-1"
23'-0"
HOT/COLD
HOSE BIB, SEE NOTE 11
F.D
3CY LOOSE  THRU
WALL
RECYCLE
3CY LOOSE
WASTE
3CY LOOSE
THRU - WALL
WASTE
6'-8"
3'-6"
6'-6"
3'-11"
AIR COMPRESSOR, WALL MOUNTED
SEE NOTE 9
SERVICE OUTLET,
SEE NOTE 9
4'-11"
3'-2"
3'-6"
14'-0" ROLL-UP DOOR
29'-4"
CHUTE MASTER
CONTROL, SEE NOTE 8
120V 15A SERVICE OUTLET. (TYP)
3'-4" WIDE
NFPA
COMPLIANT
EGRESS
DOOR
R
W
UNDEDICATED 120V 15A
SERVICE OUTLET. (TYP)
120V 15A SERVICE
OUTLET. (TYP), SEE NOTE, 10
ODOR CONTROL,
SEE NOTE, 10
3CY LOOSE  THRU
WALL
RECYCLE
3CY LOOSE  THRU
WALL
RECYCLE
3CY LOOSE  THRU
WALL
RECYCLE
3CY LOOSE
THRU - WALL
WASTE
2CY LOOSE
COMPOST
7'-1"
ADA FRONT APPROACH
(2) SELF CLOSING, 18 x 18 SH AUTOMATIC
OPENING DOOR, PER CBC
COMPOST
MT20 22" x 45.5" ELECTRIC
PALLET TRUCK
3'-0" ACCESS
DOOR
8'-3"
12'-2"
10'-3"
24'-4"
ADA FRONT APPROACH
3CY LOOSE
THRU - WALL
WASTE
6'-0"
2'-10"
3'-1114"
3'-6"
2'-10"
2'-914"
3'-1"
1'-5"
3'-1012"
6'-818"
4'-6"
3'-4"
3'-1"
3'-10"
4'-6"
STS-3FL-FD-E
CHUTE FED
HAND FED
SHEET NOTES:
RESIDENTIAL TRASH ROOM. LEVEL X.
1.
TRASH COLLECTION ROOM IS 2HR FIRE-RATED - RESTRICTED ACCESS.
2.
FLOOR SHALL BE FINISHED WITH WATERPROOF DECK COATING. FLOOR TO HAVE MINIMAL SLOPE (1° MAX) AND FLOOR
DRAIN. FLOOR LEVEL UNDER COMPACTORS.
3.
WALLS SHALL BE FINISHED WITH WASHABLE WATERPROOF SURFACE SUCH AS FRP OR HIGH-GLOSS ENAMEL PAINT
8'-0" AFF.
4.
WALL PROTECTION: OPTION 1: 12"Hx6"W CONCRETE CURB AT BASE OF ALL NON- REINFORCED CONCRETE WALLS.
OPTION 2: 1
8" THICK STEEL DIAMOND TREAD BACKING 6'-0" AFF ALONG ALL NON-REINFORCED CONCRETE WALLS.
ARCHITECT TO SELECT SUITABLE ASSEMBLY.
5.
ROOM SHALL BE MECHANICALLY VENTILATED WITH (1) CFM/SF PER 2022 CBC.
6.
INSTALL 8'-0" WIDE ROLL-UP DOOR FOR TRANSFERRING CONTAINERS. INSTALL 3'-0" NFPA COMPLIANT DOOR FOR FIRE
EGRESS.
7.
(2) 30"Ø 16-GAUGE GALVANIZED / GALVANNEALED OR ALUMINIZED STEEL CHUTE WITH 3CY FL LOOSE THRU-WALL
CONTAINER FOR WASTE AND RECYCLING. CHUTES TERMINATE 6'-0" AFF.
8.
MCP: CHUTE MASTER CONTROL PANEL (1 PER CHUTE) SHALL BE WALL-MOUNTED 60" AFF. MUST ALLOW LOCK DOWN
OF CHUTE INTAKES FOR EXCHANGING CONTAINERS AND WASHING CHUTES. 120V 15A SERVICE OUTLET REQUIRED.
9.
AC: AIR COMPRESSOR (OIL LESS) 4610AC WITH AUTOMATIC TANK DRAIN VALVE. 2 HP PEAK, TWIN TANK CAPACITY 4.6
GALLONS, VOLTAGE @ 60 HZ 110 VOLTS, CURRENT 8.5 AMPS TO POWER THE CHUTE INTAKE DOORS. (1) TOTAL.
10.
OC: ODOR CONTROL UNIT SHALL BE WALL-MOUNTED 60" AFF. 120V 15A SERVICE OUTLET REQUIRED.
11.
HB: HOT AND COLD HOSE BIBB SHALL BE WALL-MOUNTED 60" AFF.
12.
PROVIDE MT20 22" x 45.5" ELECTRIC PALLET TRUCK FOR TRANSFERRING CONTAINERS. 4500LB CAPACITY WITH 67"
TURNING RADIUS. 120V 15A SERVICE OUTLET REQUIRED.
13.
PROVIDE (1) UNDEDICATED 120V 15A SERVICE OUTLET REQUIRED FOR STAFF MAINTENANCE PURPOSE.
14.
TYPE-A, B-LABEL CONSTRUCTION, HORIZONTALLY ROLLING DOOR, HELD OPEN BY 165°F FUSIBLE LINK, SHOWN IN
CLOSED POSITION.
19.
THRU-WALL INTAKE VESTIBULE FOR GROUND LEVEL RESIDENTIAL TRASH. 2HR FIRE-RATED WITH 2HR FIRE-RATED
DOOR. **NOTE THAT WHERE CHUTE INTAKE ROOMS ARE PROTECTED BY AUTOMATIC SPRINKLERS, THE ROOM SHALL
BE ENCLOSED IN A MIN OF 1HR FIRE RESISTANCE-RATED CONSTRUCTION WITH 45-MINUTE FIRE-RATED ACCESS
DOORS**. 5'-0" MIN DIAMETER WHEELCHAIR TURNING SPACE REQUIRED PER ADA. PROVIDE (2) 18x18 SIDE HINGED,
SELF CLOSING, AUTOMATIC OPENING THRU-WALL DOORS. SEE DETAIL 1/TR2.0. PROVIDE WALL-MOUNTED
AIR-COMPRESSOR 60" AFF (OIL LESS) 4610AC WITH AUTOMATIC TANK DRAIN VALVE. 2 HP PEAK, TWIN TANK CAPACITY
4.6 GALLONS, VOLTAGE @ 60 HZ 110 VOLTS, CURRENT 8.5 AMPS TO POWER THE CHUTE INTAKE DOORS. (1) TOTAL.
CHUTE INTAKE VESTIBULES. SIM AT LEVELS 2-5.
20.
CHUTE INTAKE VESTIBULES SHALL BE 2HR FIRE-RATED WITH 90-MINUTE FIRE-RATED ACCESS DOOR FOR
RESIDENTIAL ACCESS. **NOTE THAT WHERE CHUTE INTAKE ROOMS ARE PROTECTED BY AUTOMATIC SPRINKLERS,
THE ROOM SHALL BE ENCLOSED IN A MIN OF 1HR FIRE RESISTANCE-RATED CONSTRUCTION WITH 45-MINUTE
FIRE-RATED ACCESS DOORS**. 5'-0" MIN DIAMETER WHEELCHAIR TURNING SPACE REQUIRED PER ADA
REQUIREMENTS. POWER TO INTAKE DOORS SUPPLIED BY MCP. PROVIDE (X) 15x18 BOTTOM HINGED, LOW-VOLTAGE,
ELECTRICALLY INTERLOCKED, AUTOMATIC OPENING DOOR AT EACH FLOOR. SEE DETAIL 2/TR2.0. 30" x 48" FRONT /
SIDE APPROACH REQUIRED PER ADA STANDARDS.
21.
MANAGEMENT TO PROVIDE 23-GALLON 'RUBBERMAID SLIM JIM' CONTAINER OR EQUIVALENT FOR COMPOST
DISPOSAL. STAFF TO EMPTY IN CONTAINERS DAILY AT TRASH ROOM.
22.
2HR FIRE-RATED FACE WALL SHALL NOT BE ERECTED UNTIL CHUTES HAVE BEEN INSTALLED. FOR SOUND PROOFING
PURPOSES, ATM RECOMMENDS DOUBLE STUD-WALLS OR EQUIVALENT ADJACENT TO OCCUPIED SPACES. ATM
RECOMMENDS INTERIOR OF SHAFT TO BE TAPED TO PREVENT ODOROUS AIR LEAKING INTO OCCUPIED SPACES.
ARCHITECT TO SELECT SUITABLE ASSEMBLY.
23.
PROVIDE ROUND FLOOR OPENINGS AT CONCRETE FLOORS AND OCTAGONAL FLOOR OPENINGS AT WOOD-FRAME
CONSTRUCTION. SEE PLAN FOR DIAMETER OF OPENINGS. INSTALL FLOOR SUPPORT FRAME AT EACH FLOOR
PENETRATION TO SECURE CHUTE. SEE DETAIL 9/TR2.0 FOR ANCHORING.
GENERAL NOTES.
1.
ANY DESIGNS OR SOLUTIONS SHOWN IN DRAWING, EITHER DIRECT OR IMPLIED, ARE HEREBY CLARIFIED AS
EXAMPLES AND SHALL NOT BE CONSIDERED COMPLETE DESIGNS FOR CONSTRUCTION. THESE DRAWINGS ARE
INTENDED TO SUPPLEMENT THE SUBMITTAL PACKAGE FROM ARCHITECT.
2.
ANY PARTIAL INFORMATION, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURATE DESCRIPTIONS OF WORK SHOWN IN DRAWINGS, WHICH
ARE NECESSARY TO PERFORM THE SCOPE OF WORK, SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE CONTRACTOR FROM COMPLETION OF
WORK. ALL WORK SHALL BE PERFORMED TO SATISFY THE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS OF THE CURRENT APPLICABLE
BUILDING CODES.
3.
CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD VERIFY ALL DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS PRIOR TO START OF CONSTRUCTION. THE
ARCHITECT SHALL BE PROMPTLY NOTIFIED OF ANY INCONSISTENCIES AND/OR DISCREPANCIES.
PROJECTED COLLECTION SCHEDULE
WASTE
COMPOST
SERVICE:
FREQUENCY:
CONTAINER VOL / TYPE:
(3) 3CY FL LOOSE CONTAINER
3x/wk
2x/wk
(1)2CY FL CONTAINERS
3x/wk
RECYCLING
(3) 3CY FL LOOSE CONTAINERS
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
PK, DU
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
11.07.2025
 3/32" = 1'-0"
TR1.0
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
 1/2" = 1'-0"
TRASH COLLECTION AREA - LEVEL 1
 1/2" = 1'-0"
CHUTE VESTIBULE LEVEL 2-6
 1/2" = 1'-0"
SECTIONS
TRASH COLLECTION
AREA & CHUTE
VESTIBULE

--- page 138 ---
1
THRU-WALL INTAKE DOOR
GROUND FLOOR - NO EI BOX
2
CHUTE INTAKE DOOR
UPPER LEVELS
NOTES:
1.
2HR FIRE-RATED FACE WALL SHALL NOT BE ERECTED UNTIL CHUTES HAVE BEEN INSTALLED. FOR SOUND PROOFING PURPOSES, DOUBLE STUD-WALLS
ARE REQUIRED ADJACENT TO OCCUPIED SPACES. INTERIOR OF SHAFT SHALL BE TAPED TO PREVENT ODOROUS AIR LEAKING INTO OCCUPIED SPACES.
2.
INTAKE DOOR NOT SHOWN FOR CLARITY.
CHUTE SHAFT AT INTAKE
CHUTE AIR AND SOUND ISOLATION
CHUTE WASHDOWN SYSTEM
AT HIGHEST INTAKE - ALL CHUTES
5
6
8
NOTES:
1.
PROVIDE HIGH PRESSURE CHUTE WASHDOWN NOZZLE.
2.
FILL WASHDOWN TANK WITH CONCENTRATED SOLUTION. THE SYPHON HOSE SHOULD REACH THE BOTTOM OF THE CLEANING SOLUTION CONTAINER. TO FLUSH WITH CLEAR
WATER, TURN HANDLE TO THE ON POSITION. FACTORY SETTING OF THE PROPORTIONING VALVE IS FOR 50-GALLONS PER GALLON OF CLEANING SOLUTION.
3.
NOTE THAT THE ACCESS DOOR AND WASHDOWN UNIT ARE SHOWN OUTSIDE OF CHUTE SHAFT FOR CLARITY. ALL WASHDOWN EQUIPMENT WILL BE INSTALLED WITHIN CHUTE
SHAFT, ABOVE THE HIGHEST INTAKE. (1) WASHDOWN UNIT PER CHUTE.
4.
2022 CBC - 11B-404.3.5 HEIGHT: CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS SHALL BE LOCATED NO HIGHER THAN 48 INCHES, AND NO LOWER THAN 15 INCHES ABOVE THE
FINISHED FLOOR MEASURED TO THE CENTER OF THE GRIP.
5.
2022 CBC - 11B-309.4 OPERATION: CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS SHALL BE OPERABLE WITH ONE HAND AND SHALL NOT REQUIRE TIGHT GRASPING, PINCHING, OR
TWISTING OF THE WRIST. THE FORCE REQUIRED TO ACTIVATE CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS SHALL BE NO GREATER THAN 5 POUNDS.
6.
SUPPLIED BY VENDOR - INSTALLED BY PLUMBER.
NOTES:
1.
2022 CBC - 11B-404.3.5 HEIGHT: CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS SHALL BE LOCATED NO HIGHER THAN 48 INCHES, AND NO LOWER THAN 15 INCHES ABOVE THE FINISHED FLOOR
MEASURED TO THE CENTER OF THE GRIP.
2.
2022 CBC - 11B-309.4 OPERATION: CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS SHALL BE OPERABLE WITH ONE HAND AND SHALL NOT REQUIRE TIGHT GRASPING, PINCHING, OR TWISTING OF THE
WRIST. THE FORCE REQUIRED TO ACTIVATE CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS SHALL BE NO GREATER THAN 5 POUNDS.
CONC SLAB WHERE OCCURS
(S.S.D.)
2HR FIRE-RATED WALL
PER SCHEDULE (S.A.D.)
TAPE INTERIOR OF CHUTE SHAFT
TO PREVENT ODOROUS AIR LEAKS
(BY OTHERS)
DISCHARGE LEVEL
4'-6"
ANCHOR BOLTS W/ NEOPRENE GROMMETS. PROVIDE MASON BRA-RED
SOUND ISOLATION PADS BELOW CHUTE FLOOR SUPPORT FRAME TO
ISOLATE FROM STRUCTURE. MOUNTS SHALL HAVE 0.2-INCH STATIC
DEFLECTION
CL
VARIES
SEE PLAN
A36 FLOOR SUPPORT FRAME, SEE
PLAN
2HR FIRE-RATED WALL
PER SCHEDULE (S.A.D.)
NO CONTACT BTWN GYP BOARD, FRAMING & CHUTE. SEAL GAP W/
FLEXIBLE ACOUSTIC RATED FIRE CAULKING AT PENETRATION
THROUGH WALL & SHAFT, ALL AROUND
5
1
2
4
2
6
3
15x15 ACCESS DOOR (NTS) INSTALLED BY CONTRACTOR PRIOR TO
ERECTING WALL
8
9
10"
TYP RESIDENTIAL LEVEL
CL
CONC SLAB WHERE OCCURS
(S.S.D.)
A36 FLOOR SUPPORT FRAME, SEE
PLAN
2HR FIRE-RATED WALL
PER SCHEDULE (S.A.D.)
2HR FIRE-RATED WALL
PER SCHEDULE (S.A.D.)
2HR FIRE-RATED WALL
PER SCHEDULE (S.A.D.)
14" MAX
OPG
CHUTE INTAKE DOOR: 14" MAX OPENING FROM F.O. WALL, SEE
DETAILS ABOVE & NOTES 4 & 5 FOR HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
7
CL
2HR FIRE-RATED WALL
PER SCHEDULE (S.A.D.)
TAPE INTERIOR OF CHUTE SHAFT
TO PREVENT ODOROUS AIR LEAKS
CONC SLAB WHERE OCCURS
(S.S.D.)
A36 FLOOR SUPPORT FRAME,
SEE PLAN
TYP
X
-
FIRE-RATED ACOUSTIC
FLEXIBLE SEALANT
3
4"Ø FLUSHING SPRAY HEAD BELOW CHUTE
VENT & ABOVE TOP CHUTE INTAKE DOOR
14" MAX
OPG
COAT CHUTE W/ SOUNDCOAT DAUBERT V-DAMP 3680 OR
EQUIVALENT; MATCH THICKNESS OF METAL
COAT CHUTE W/ SOUNDCOAT DAUBERT V-DAMP 3680 OR
EQUIVALENT; MATCH THICKNESS OF METAL
TYPE-A, B-LABEL CONSTRUCTION, HORIZONTALLY ROLLING DOOR, HELD OPEN BY
165°F FUSIBLE LINK, SHOWN IN CLOSED POSITION
SEE PLAN
SEE PLAN
SEE PLAN
SHEET NOTES. 30"Ø CHUTE DETAILS
1.
WASTE / RECYCLING CHUTE MATERIAL: 16-GAUGE GALVANIZED / GALVANNEALED OR ALUMINIZED STEEL.
2.
2HR FIRE-RATED WALL ASSEMBLIES ENCASING CHUTE SHAFT. FACE WALL SHALL NOT BE ERECTED UNTIL CHUTES
HAVE BEEN INSTALLED.
3.
SEE ARCHITECTURAL AND/OR STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS TO VERIFY ALL INFORMATION NOT RELATED TO ATM'S SCOPE
OF WORK PER AGREEMENT.
GENERAL NOTES.
1.
ANY DESIGNS OR SOLUTIONS SHOWN IN DRAWING, EITHER DIRECT OR IMPLIED, ARE HEREBY CLARIFIED AS
EXAMPLES AND SHALL NOT BE CONSIDERED COMPLETE DESIGNS FOR CONSTRUCTION. THESE DRAWINGS ARE
INTENDED TO SUPPLEMENT THE SUBMITTAL PACKAGE FROM ARCHITECT.
2.
ANY PARTIAL INFORMATION, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURATE DESCRIPTIONS OF WORK SHOWN IN DRAWINGS, WHICH
ARE NECESSARY TO PERFORM THE SCOPE OF WORK, SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE CONTRACTOR FROM COMPLETION OF
WORK. ALL WORK SHALL BE PERFORMED TO SATISFY THE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS OF THE CURRENT APPLICABLE
BUILDING CODES.
3.
CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD VERIFY ALL DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS PRIOR TO START OF CONSTRUCTION. THE
ARCHITECT SHALL BE PROMPTLY NOTIFIED OF ANY INCONSISTENCIES AND/OR DISCREPANCIES.
FRONT VIEW
1'-9"
2'-1"
4"
18x18 SIDE HINGED, AUTOMATIC OPENING  INTAKE
DOOR
SATIN CHROME PULL HANDLE W/
THUMB LATCH
RED PUSH BUTTON
1'-93 4"
OVERALL DIM
1'-314"
DOOR PANEL DIM
1'-63 8"
1'-9"
2'-03 4"
OVERALL DIM
FRONT VIEW
(WITHOUT TRIM)
RED OPEN BUTTON
SATIN CHROME PULL
HANDLE W/ THUMB LATCH
NOTES:
1.
INTAKE DOOR AND TRIM SHALL BE REMOVED FOR DOOR MAINTENANCE.
2.
BOTTOM HINGED DOORS ARE SELF-CLOSING, NOISELESS, AND SELF-LATCHING. UL CLASSIFIED 90 MINUTE FIRE-RATED DOOR AND FRAME ASSEMBLY AND A
TEMPERATURE RISE OF 250° F MAX IN 30 MINUTES.
3.
MAX OPENING FOR INTAKE DOOR IS 14" FROM FACE OF FINISHED WALL.
4.
2022 CBC - 11B-404.3.5 HEIGHT: CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS SHALL BE LOCATED NO HIGHER THAN 48 INCHES, AND NO LOWER THAN 15 INCHES ABOVE
THE FINISHED FLOOR MEASURED TO THE CENTER OF THE GRIP.
5.
2022 CBC - 11B-309.4 OPERATION: CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS SHALL BE OPERABLE WITH ONE HAND AND SHALL NOT REQUIRE TIGHT GRASPING,
PINCHING, OR TWISTING OF THE WRIST. THE FORCE REQUIRED TO ACTIVATE CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS SHALL BE NO GREATER THAN 5 POUNDS.
6.
18x18  AIR ASSIST ACCESS DOOR IS LARGEST DOOR THAT ATM WILL DESIGN FOR CHUTE INTAKE.
7.
ATM WILL NEVER DESIGN A 24x24 INTAKE DOOR AS THESE DOOR SIZES HAVE LED TO FATALITIES.
8.
FOR CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS HEIGHTS AFF, REFER TO ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS.
9.
FOR CHUTES THAT EXTEND BEYOND 20 FLOORS OR 250 FEET: LOW-VOLTAGE BOOSTER POWER SUPPLY IS REQUIRED FOR CHUTES THAT EXTEND BEYOND 20
FLOORS OR 250 FEET, WHICHEVER COMES FIRST. THE CHUTE SUBCONTRACTOR MUST MEASURE ALL FLOORS AND ROOM DIMENSIONS ON-SITE TO DETERMINE IF A
BOOSTER POWER SUPPLY IS NEEDED.
10.
1
8" THICK FABRIC-REINFORCED NEOPRENE RUBBER BAFFLE AT EACH INTAKE DOOR REQUIRED FOR BUILDINGS WITH MORE THAN 8-STORIES, OPTIONAL
OTHERWISE.
FRONT VIEW
(WITH TRIM: 16 GA. 430 S.S.)
1'-113 4"
OVERALL DIM
2'-03 4"
OVERALL DIM
15x18 BOTTOM-HINGED, LOW-VOLTAGE ELECTRICALLY
INTERLOCKED, AUTOMATIC OPENING INTAKE DOOR
1'-318"
538"
PLAN VIEW
1'-103 8"
2'-1"
WALL OPG
1958"
CHUTE OPG
SECTION VIEW
NOTES:
1.
INTAKE DOOR AND TRIM SHALL BE REMOVED FOR DOOR MAINTENANCE.
2.
SIDE HINGED DOORS ARE SELF-CLOSING, NOISELESS, AND SELF-LATCHING. UL CLASSIFIED 90 MINUTE FIRE-RATED DOOR AND FRAME ASSEMBLY AND A
TEMPERATURE RISE OF 250° F MAX IN 30 MINUTES.
3.
MAX OPENING FOR INTAKE DOOR IS 14" FROM FACE OF FINISHED WALL.
4.
2022 CBC - 11B-404.3.5 HEIGHT: CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS SHALL BE LOCATED NO HIGHER THAN 48 INCHES, AND NO LOWER THAN 15 INCHES ABOVE
THE FINISHED FLOOR MEASURED TO THE CENTER OF THE GRIP.
5.
2022 CBC - 11B-309.4 OPERATION: CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS SHALL BE OPERABLE WITH ONE HAND AND SHALL NOT REQUIRE TIGHT GRASPING,
PINCHING, OR TWISTING OF THE WRIST. THE FORCE REQUIRED TO ACTIVATE CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS SHALL BE NO GREATER THAN 5 POUNDS.
6.
18x18  AIR ASSIST ACCESS DOOR IS LARGEST DOOR THAT ATM WILL DESIGN FOR CHUTE INTAKE.
7.
ATM WILL NEVER DESIGN A 24x24 INTAKE DOOR AS THESE DOOR SIZES HAVE LED TO FATALITIES.
8.
FOR CONTROLS AND OPERATING MECHANISMS HEIGHTS AFF, REFER TO ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS.
9.
1
8" THICK FABRIC-REINFORCED NEOPRENE RUBBER BAFFLE AT EACH INTAKE DOOR REQUIRED FOR BUILDINGS WITH MORE THAN 8-STORIES, OPTIONAL
OTHERWISE.
WALL
114"
22"
WALL
OPENING
SECTION VIEW
MECHANICAL BOX
DOOR
25"
WALL
OPENING
PLAN VIEW
SLEEVE MUST BE SECURED AROUND WITH APPROPRIATED
HARDWARE ACCORDINGLY TO WALL CONSTRUCTION
DOOR
MECHANICAL BOX
1
8" THICK FABRIC-REINFORCED NEOPRENE
RUBBER BAFFLE
SEE NOTE 9
SCALE: NTS
SCALE: NTS
SCALE: NTS
SCALE: NTS
SCALE: NTS
NOTES:
1.
REFER TO MANUFACTURER SPECIFICATIONS FOR ALL OTHER INFORMATION NOT LISTED.
2.
(4) MASON BRA-RED SOUND ISOLATION PAD ASSEMBLIES PER FLOOR SUPPORT FRAME.
3.
BRIDGE-BEARING NEOPRENE PROVIDED TO SUPPORT THE CHUTE FLOOR SUPPORT FRAME AND ISOLATE FROM STRUCTURE. MOUNTS SHALL HAVE 0.2-INCH
STATIC DEFLECTION.
FLOOR SUPPORT FRAME ANCHORING
9
SCALE: NTS
UL RATED 1.5 HR 'B' LABEL
1" CONDUIT / WIRING TO FLOOR BELOW BY
ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR
3
4" CONDUIT / WIRING TO FLOOR BELOW BY
ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR
SATIN CHROME PULL HANDLE W/ THUMB
LATCH
1
8" THICK FABRIC-REINFORCED NEOPRENE
RUBBER BAFFLE SEE NOTE 10
EI BOX
1" CONDUIT / WIRING TO FLOOR ABOVE BY ELECTRICAL
CONTRACTOR
3
4" CONDUIT TO FLOOR ABOVE BY ELECTRICAL
CONTRACTOR 1
4" AIR HOSE SUPPLIED BY
WILKINSON
13
SCALE: NTS
NOTES:
1.
34"Ø POUR RING ASSEMBLIES TO BE GALVANIZED.
2.
"X"  INDICATES DEPTH OF SLAB 8" - 20" RANGE.
3.
TRASH CHUTES: USE BR MOUNT; LINEN CHUTES: NO BR MOUNT.
34"Ø EMBEDDED POUR RING ASSEMBLY
30"Ø CHUTE
CENTER HOLE FOR DIRECT MOUNTING
OF FLOOR FRAME (NO BR MOUNT)
112"
TYP
45°
11g POUR RING
34"Ø O.D.
(TO BE GALVANIZED)
MATERIAL: 1067
8" LG x 11G x "X" HT.
3 4"
112"
TYP
FLOOR SUPPORT FRAME
CORNER
1
2"Ø HOLE
3 4"
3 4"
3 4"
PROVIDE MASON BRA-RED SOUND
ISOLATION PADS BELOW FRAME
RIM JOISTS BY OTHERS
(S.S.D.)
PLYWOOD SUBFLOOR BY
OTHERS (S.S.D.)
ASTM A307 5
16-18UNCx1 CAP SCREW W/ STANDARD
WASHER & NEOPRENE GROMMET, (1) TOTAL PER
ASSEMBLY
316" THICK
TYP
316" THICK
TYP
212" MIN
EMBED
DUCTILE IRON HOUSING
BRIDGE-BEARING NEOPRENE PROVIDED TO
SUPPORT THE CHUTE FLOOR SUPPORT FRAMES
AND ISOLATE FROM STRUCTURE
PROVIDE MASON BRA-RED SOUND
ISOLATION PADS BELOW FRAME
CONC SLAB WHERE OCCURS
(S.S.D.)
3
8"Ø x 3" RED HEAD OR HILTI KB3 POST-INSTALLED
CONCRETE ANCHOR BOLT, (2) TOTAL EA ASSEMBLY
ARCHITECT SHALL VERIFY WITH RECOMMENDATIONS IN
ACOUSTICS REPORT
A36 FLOOR SUPPORT FRAME, SEE
PLAN
WOOD-FRAME
CONNECTION
CONCRETE
CONNECTION
ASTM A307 5
16-18UNCx1 CAP SCREW W/ STANDARD
WASHER & NEOPRENE GROMMET, (1) TOTAL PER
ASSEMBLY
A36 FLOOR SUPPORT FRAME, SEE
PLAN
112" MIN FROM E.O. CONC
TO PREVENT BREAKOUT
1
4"Ø x 4" HEX HEAD LAG SCREW
(2) TOTAL PER ASSEMBLY
DUCTILE IRON HOUSING
BRIDGE-BEARING NEOPRENE PROVIDED TO
SUPPORT THE CHUTE FLOOR SUPPORT FRAMES
AND ISOLATE FROM STRUCTURE
3"
2"
3/16"
1-3/8"
1-3/8"
1-5/8"
1-5/8"
4-1/4"
2-1/2"
2-1/2"
3
4"
3
4"
MASON BRA-RED MOUNT
ISOMETRIC VIEW
NOTES:
1.
ALL HARDWARE PLATED
2.
REFER TO MANUFACTURERS SPECIFICATIONS FOR ALL OTHER
INFORMATION NOT INCLUDED.
2'-614" TYP
INNER
2'-914" TYP
OUTER
30"Ø CHUTE
BR MOUNTS
A36 L11
2" x 11
2" x 1
4 x SQUARE FLOOR
SUPPORT FRAMES
3'-9" HOLE-TO-HOLE
TYP
11G POUR RING
34"Ø. O.D.
A36 L11
2" x 11
2" x 1
4 SQUARED FLOOR SUPPORT
FRAME
30"Ø CHUTE
3'-9" HOLE-TO-HOLE
TYP
90.00°
90.00°
X
2'-10" O.D.
3'-9" HOLE-TO-HOLE
WELD STUDS
11g GUSSET
3
8"Ø x 11
2" STUDS
POUR RING
OUTSIDE HOLES - ADD 2 STUDS FOR BR MOUNT
INSIDE HOLE - ADD ONE STUD ONLY FOR DIRECT FLOOR MOUNT OF
FRAME.
1
2"Ø HOLE (3)
TOTAL
POUR RING BR MOUNT BRACKET 11g
65 8"
512"
412"
412"
118"
314"
5 8"
X
4"
512"
118"
412"
658"
USE FLOOR SUPPORT FRAME TO CONFIRM POUR
RING BRACKET LOCATION
WASHDOWN UNIT (NTS)
INSTALLED BEHIND F.O. WALL
FIRE SPRINKLER HEAD LOCATED AT HIGHEST INTAKE, LOWEST
INTAKE & EVERY OTHER FLOOR BETWEEN. MOUNTED IN SHOP BY
CHUTE MANUFACTURER. CONNECTION MADE BY FIRE SPRINKLER
CONTRACTOR. (S.A.D. & FIRE SPRINKLER CONTRACTOR FOR
MORE INFORMATION)
PLUMBING SCHEMATIC LEGEND:
1.
3 4"Ø DOMESTIC HOT WATER INLET WITH VACUUM BREAKER.
(SUPPLIED/INSTALLED BY PLUMBING SUBCONTRACTOR).
2.
QUARTER-TURN GATE VALVE (SHUT-OFF AND BYPASS), (2) TOTAL.
(SUPPLIED/INSTALLED BY PLUMBING SUBCONTRACTOR).
3.
PLUMBING DESIGN, MATERIALS, AND INSTALLATION BY OTHERS.
(SUPPLIED/INSTALLED BY PLUMBING SUBCONTRACTOR).
4.
24-VDC SOLENOID VALVE (OPTIONAL). NOT NEEDED FOR MANUAL OPERATION.
(NOT USED HERE).
5.
WASHDOW UNIT: 1-GALLON CONTAINER, MOUNTING BRACKET, AND
PROPORTIONAL VALVE AT REMOTE LOCATION. (SUPPLIED/MOUNTED BY CHUTE
SUBCONTRACTOR. PLUMBED BY PLUMBING SUBCONTRACTOR).
6.
3 4"Ø FLUSHING SPRAY HEAD BELOW CHUTE VENT. (SUPPLIED/MOUNTED BY
CHUTE SUBCONTRACTOR. PLUMBED BY PLUMBING SUBCONTRACTOR).
7.
FIRE SPRINKLER IS LOCATED AT HIGHEST INTAKE, LOWEST INTAKE, AND EVERY
OTHER FLOOR BETWEEN, TO BE STARTED FROM HIGHEST INTAKE. (MOUNTED
IN SHOP BY CHUTE MANUFACTURER. CONNECTION MADE BY FIRE SPRINKLER
SUBCONTRACTOR).
8.
SIDE-HINGED, UL RATED 90 MINUTE B-LABEL ACCESS DOOR. (SUPPLIED BY
CHUTE SUBCONTRACTOR. INSTALLED BY FRAMING SUBCONTRACTOR OR GC).
9.
SATIN CHROME PULL-HANDLE. (SUPPLIED/INSTALLED BY CHUTE
MANUFACTURE).
CHUTE INTAKE DOOR: 14" MAX OPENING FROM F.O. WALL, SEE
DETAILS ABOVE & NOTES 4 & 5 FOR HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
15
CHUTE SHAFT DETAILS
PLAN VIEWS
SCALE: NTS
WOOD-FRAME CONNECTION
OCTAGONAL FLOOR OPENINGS
CONCRETE CONNECTION
ROUND FLOOR OPENINGS
2'-1"
4'-11" O.C.
2'-0"
2'-0"
1'-10"
3'-5" CLEAR SHAFT
2'-1"
4'-11"
2'-0"
2'-0"
1'-10"
16" x 24" DISCHARGE ROOM /
VESTIBULE VENT W/ 2HR FIRE-RATED
SEPARATION - COORDINATE W/ MEP
8'-314" CLEAR
A36 L11
2" x 11
2" x 1
4 x 3'-4" LONG FLOOR SUPPORT
FRAMES
MASON BRA-RED SOUND ISOLATION PADS (4) TOTAL AT EA
FLOOR SUPPORT FRAME
(2) 30"Ø GALV. STEEL CHUTES W/ 34"Ø FLOOR OPENINGS,
SEE NOTE 3
A36 L11
2" x 11
2" x 1
4 x 3'-4" LONG FLOOR SUPPORT
FRAMES
MASON BRA-RED SOUND ISOLATION PADS (4) TOTAL AT EA
FLOOR SUPPORT FRAME
(2) 30"Ø GALV. STEEL CHUTES W/ OCTAGONAL
FLOOR OPENINGS, SEE NOTE 3
12" x 10" DISCHARGE ROOM /
VESTIBULE VENT W/ 2HR FIRE-RATED
SEPARATION - COORDINATE W/ MEP
1'-4"
2'-0"
OCTAGONAL FLOOR OPENING
30"Ø CHUTE (NTS)
(2) 15x8 BOTTOM HINGED, LOW-VOLTAGE, ELECTRICALLY
INTERLOCKED, AUTOMATIC OPENING DOORS
2HR FIRE-RATED WALL BY OTHERS
(S.A.D.) SEE NOTE 2
(2) 15x8 BOTTOM HINGED, LOW-VOLTAGE,
ELECTRICALLY INTERLOCKED, AUTOMATIC
OPENING DOORS
2HR FIRE-RATED WALL BY OTHERS
(S.A.D.) SEE NOTE 2
NOTES:
1.
CHUTE INTAKE VESTIBULES SHALL BE 2HR FIRE-RATED WITH 90-MINUTE FIRE-RATED ACCESS DOOR FOR RESIDENTIAL ACCESS. **NOTE THAT WHERE CHUTE INTAKE ROOMS ARE
PROTECTED BY AUTOMATIC SPRINKLERS, THE ROOM SHALL BE ENCLOSED IN A MIN OF 1HR FIRE RESISTANCE-RATED CONSTRUCTION WITH 45-MINUTE FIRE-RATED ACCESS DOORS**. 5'-0"
MIN DIAMETER WHEELCHAIR TURNING SPACE REQUIRED PER ADA REQUIREMENTS. POWER TO INTAKE DOORS SUPPLIED BY MCP. PROVIDE (2) 15x18 BOTTOM HINGED, LOW-VOLTAGE,
ELECTRICALLY INTERLOCKED, AUTOMATIC OPENING DOOR AT EACH FLOOR. SEE DETAIL 2/TR2.0. 30" x 48" FRONT / SIDE APPROACH REQUIRED PER ADA STANDARDS.
2.
MANAGEMENT TO PROVIDE 23-GALLON 'RUBBERMAID SLIM JIM' CONTAINER OR EQUIVALENT FOR COMPOST DISPOSAL. STAFF TO EMPTY IN CONTAINERS DAILY AT TRASH ROOM.
3.
2HR FIRE-RATED FACE WALL SHALL NOT BE ERECTED UNTIL CHUTES HAVE BEEN INSTALLED. FOR SOUND PROOFING PURPOSES, ATM RECOMMENDS DOUBLE STUD-WALLS OR
EQUIVALENT ADJACENT TO OCCUPIED SPACES. ATM RECOMMENDS INTERIOR OF SHAFT TO BE TAPED TO PREVENT ODOROUS AIR LEAKING INTO OCCUPIED SPACES. ARCHITECT TO
SELECT SUITABLE ASSEMBLY.
4.
TYPE I FLOOR: TO PREVENT CONCRETE BREAK-OFF, VERIFY MINIMUM DISTANCE WITH STRUCTURAL ENGINEER.
5.
ARCHITECT SHALL VERIFY ALL FLOOR SUPPORT FRAME ANCHORING CONNECTIONS WITH RECOMMENDATIONS IN ACOUSTICS REPORT.
*SOUND CONSULTANT TO VERIFY DETAILS
AND UPDATE AS NECESSARY*
REFER TO CHUTE VESTIBULE LAYOUTS ON
SHEETS TR1.0 FOR ANY MISSING
INFORMATION.
4
CHUTE NOTES
SCALE: NTS
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
PK, DU
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
11.07.2025
 3/32" = 1'-0"
TR2.0
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
CHUTE DETAILS

--- page 139 ---
EXTERIOR LIGHTING LEGEND
L1
LINEAR LIGHT, GUARDRAIL - SKYBRIDGE
L2
LINEAR LIGHT, DECORATIVE CABLE - COMMON OUTDOOR SPACE 
P1
PENDANT LIGHT - 1ST FLOOR UNIT PORCHES & ENTRANCES
P2
PENDANT LIGHT - COMMON OUTDOOR SPACES
R1
RECESSED DOWNLIGHT - CORRIDOR, ENTRANCE & BALCONIES
S1
SURFACE MOUNTED DOWNLIGHT - TRELLISES
W1
WALL MOUNTED SCONE - UNIT ENTRANCE/BALCONY & STAIR 3
W2
WALL MOUNTED SCONE - PILASTERS
W3
WALL MOUNTED STEP LIGHT - STAIR 3
L-01
UPLIGHT
L-02
BOLLARD LIGHT
L-03
WALL LIGHT
L-04
LED STRIP ACCENT LIGHT
L-05
MULTI-HEAD POLE LIGHT
L-06
BBQ TASK LIGHT
NOTE: ALL FIXTURES ARE SUBJECT TO SUBSTITUTION WITH SIMILAR DUE TO COST AND 
AVAILABILITY AT THE TIME OF CONSTRUCTION.
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
1/4" = 1'-0"
E 2.00
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
EXTERIOR LIGHTING
SPECIFICATIONS
L1
ARCHITECTURAL LIGHTING
ARCHITECTURAL LIGHT FIXTURE SCHEDULE
Type
Mark Count
Manufacturer
Model
L1
2
C.R. LAURENCE
LED RAIL INSERT, LEDCR6
L2
5
BRUCK
SKYLINE , SKY-D-WAND
P1
20
WAC LIGHTING
TUBE ARCHITECTURAL, DS-PD08
P2
6
BOVER
GAROTA HANG
R1
251
WAC LIGHTING
4.5" VOLTA, R4SD2T
S1
54
B-K LIGHTING
NITE STAR, NS-LED
W1
98
KUZCO
MAVIS, EW4401
W2
35
AFX
TRU 36", TRUW0536LAJUDBK
W3
22
WAC LIGHTING
LEDME, WL-LED100
L2
P1
P2
R1
S1
W1
W2
W3
L-01
LANDSCAPE LIGHTING
L-02
L-03
L-04
L-05
L-06
LANDSCAPE LIGHT FIXTURE SCHEDULE
Call Out
Manufacturer
Model
L-01
B-K LIGHTING
ARTI STAR, AR-FL-LID-LCB
L-02
BEGA
BOLLARD, B99056
L-03
BEGA
RECESSED WALL LUMINAIRE, B33059
L-04
FX LUMINAIRE
SRP STRIP LIGHT
L-05
SELUX
OLIVIO MEDIO LED
L-06
FX LUMINAIRE
BARBEQUE LIGHT

--- page 140 ---
R1
P1
R1
P1
P1
P1
P1
P1
P1
P1
P1
P1
P1
P1
P1
P1
P1
R1
R1
W2
R1
R1
P1
P1
R1
R1
R1
W2
W2
P1
P1
W2
W2
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
W2
P1
SEE LANDSCAPE 
DESIGN FOR 
LANDSCAPE LIGHTING 
W2
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
SEE LANDSCAPE 
DESIGN FOR 
LANDSCAPE LIGHTING 
LINE OF LANDSCAPE 
PLANTING AREA BELOW
LINE OF FIREPLACE BELOW
R1
R1
R1
P2
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
W1
W1
W1
W1
R1
SEE LANDSCAPE 
DESIGN FOR 
LANDSCAPE LIGHTING 
W3
W1
W1
S1
S1
S1
R1
R1
S1
W1
R1
R1
W3
W3
EXTERIOR LIGHTING LEGEND
L1
LINEAR LIGHT, GUARDRAIL - SKYBRIDGE
L2
LINEAR LIGHT, DECORATIVE CABLE - COMMON OUTDOOR SPACE 
P1
PENDANT LIGHT - 1ST FLOOR UNIT PORCHES & ENTRANCES
P2
PENDANT LIGHT - COMMON OUTDOOR SPACES
R1
RECESSED DOWNLIGHT - CORRIDOR, ENTRANCE & BALCONIES
S1
SURFACE MOUNTED DOWNLIGHT - TRELLISES
W1
WALL MOUNTED SCONE - UNIT ENTRANCE/BALCONY & STAIR 3
W2
WALL MOUNTED SCONE - PILASTERS
W3
WALL MOUNTED STEP LIGHT - STAIR 3
L-01
UPLIGHT
L-02
BOLLARD LIGHT
L-03
WALL LIGHT
L-04
LED STRIP ACCENT LIGHT
L-05
MULTI-HEAD POLE LIGHT
L-06
BBQ TASK LIGHT
NOTE: ALL FIXTURES ARE SUBJECT TO SUBSTITUTION WITH SIMILAR DUE TO COST AND 
AVAILABILITY AT THE TIME OF CONSTRUCTION.
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W3
R1
R1
S1
R1
R1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
W1
W1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
W1
W1
W3
R1
R1
S1
R1
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
E 2.01
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
EXTERIOR LIGHTING PLANS
3/64" = 1'-0"
1ST FLOOR - EXTERIOR LIGHTING PLAN
3/64" = 1'-0"
2ND FLOOR - EXTERIOR LIGHTING PLAN
ARCHITECTURAL LIGHT FIXTURE SCHEDULE
Type
Mark Count
Manufacturer
Model
L1
2
C.R. LAURENCE
LED RAIL INSERT, LEDCR6
L2
5
BRUCK
SKYLINE , SKY-D-WAND
P1
20
WAC LIGHTING
TUBE ARCHITECTURAL, DS-PD08
P2
6
BOVER
GAROTA HANG
R1
251
WAC LIGHTING
4.5" VOLTA, R4SD2T
S1
54
B-K LIGHTING
NITE STAR, NS-LED
W1
98
KUZCO
MAVIS, EW4401
W2
35
AFX
TRU 36", TRUW0536LAJUDBK
W3
22
WAC LIGHTING
LEDME, WL-LED100
3/64" = 1'-0"
3RD FLOOR - EXTERIOR LIGHTING PLAN
3/64" = 1'-0"
4TH FLOOR - EXTERIOR LIGHTING PLAN
LANDSCAPE LIGHT FIXTURE SCHEDULE
Call Out
Manufacturer
Model
L-01
B-K LIGHTING
ARTI STAR, AR-FL-LID-LCB
L-02
BEGA
BOLLARD, B99056
L-03
BEGA
RECESSED WALL LUMINAIRE, B33059
L-04
FX LUMINAIRE
SRP STRIP LIGHT
L-05
SELUX
OLIVIO MEDIO LED
L-06
FX LUMINAIRE
BARBEQUE LIGHT

--- page 141 ---
EXTERIOR LIGHTING LEGEND
L1
LINEAR LIGHT, GUARDRAIL - SKYBRIDGE
L2
LINEAR LIGHT, DECORATIVE CABLE - COMMON OUTDOOR SPACE 
P1
PENDANT LIGHT - 1ST FLOOR UNIT PORCHES & ENTRANCES
P2
PENDANT LIGHT - COMMON OUTDOOR SPACES
R1
RECESSED DOWNLIGHT - CORRIDOR, ENTRANCE & BALCONIES
S1
SURFACE MOUNTED DOWNLIGHT - TRELLISES
W1
WALL MOUNTED SCONE - UNIT ENTRANCE/BALCONY & STAIR 3
W2
WALL MOUNTED SCONE - PILASTERS
W3
WALL MOUNTED STEP LIGHT - STAIR 3
L-01
UPLIGHT
L-02
BOLLARD LIGHT
L-03
WALL LIGHT
L-04
LED STRIP ACCENT LIGHT
L-05
MULTI-HEAD POLE LIGHT
L-06
BBQ TASK LIGHT
NOTE: ALL FIXTURES ARE SUBJECT TO SUBSTITUTION WITH SIMILAR DUE TO COST AND 
AVAILABILITY AT THE TIME OF CONSTRUCTION.
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
W1
W1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
R1
W1
W3
W1
L1
L1
R1
R1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
LINE OF OUTDOOR 
DINING TABLE BELOW
LINE OF LANDSCAPE 
PLANTING AREA BELOW
LINE OF BBQS BELOW
SEE LANDSCAPE 
DESIGN FOR 
LANDSCAPE LIGHTING 
SEE LANDSCAPE 
DESIGN FOR 
LANDSCAPE LIGHTING 
LINE OF LANDSCAPE 
PLANTING AREA/GARDEN 
BEDS BELOW
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
R1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
R1
W1
W1
R1
R1
R1
W1
W1
R1
W1
W1
W1
R1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
R1
P2
P2
P2
R1
R1
R1
L2
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
E 2.02
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
EXTERIOR LIGHTING PLANS
ARCHITECTURAL LIGHT FIXTURE SCHEDULE
Type
Mark Count
Manufacturer
Model
L1
2
C.R. LAURENCE
LED RAIL INSERT, LEDCR6
L2
5
BRUCK
SKYLINE , SKY-D-WAND
P1
20
WAC LIGHTING
TUBE ARCHITECTURAL, DS-PD08
P2
6
BOVER
GAROTA HANG
R1
251
WAC LIGHTING
4.5" VOLTA, R4SD2T
S1
54
B-K LIGHTING
NITE STAR, NS-LED
W1
98
KUZCO
MAVIS, EW4401
W2
35
AFX
TRU 36", TRUW0536LAJUDBK
W3
22
WAC LIGHTING
LEDME, WL-LED100
3/64" = 1'-0"
5TH FLOOR - EXTERIOR LIGHTING PLAN
3/64" = 1'-0"
6TH FLOOR - EXTERIOR LIGHTING PLAN
LANDSCAPE LIGHT FIXTURE SCHEDULE
Call Out
Manufacturer
Model
L-01
B-K LIGHTING
ARTI STAR, AR-FL-LID-LCB
L-02
BEGA
BOLLARD, B99056
L-03
BEGA
RECESSED WALL LUMINAIRE, B33059
L-04
FX LUMINAIRE
SRP STRIP LIGHT
L-05
SELUX
OLIVIO MEDIO LED
L-06
FX LUMINAIRE
BARBEQUE LIGHT

--- page 142 ---
V
V
V
V
STATE ST
N SAN MATEO
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN: WP/NV
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
11/03/2025
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
CHECKED: JB
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
350 SE Mill Street   Suite 02
Portland, OR 97214
0
SCALE 1"=10'
0
5
30
50FT
0
20
0
10
08-31-26
11-04-25
E2.03A
LANDSCAPE LIGHTING
PLAN LEVEL 1A
SEE SHEET L-101B
NO
LANDSCAPE
LIGHTING

--- page 143 ---
LIGHTING SCHEDULE
SYM
CALL
OUT
LIGHT TYPE
PRODUCT
UPLIGHT
ARTI STAR FLOOD LIGHT
BOLLARD LIGHT
BEGA SHIELDED ASYMMETRIC  BOLLARD
WALL LIGHT
BEGA RECESSED WALL LUMINAIRE
LED STRIP ACCENT LIGHT
FX SRP WHITE STRIP LIGHT
MULTI-HEAD POLE LIGHT
OLIVIO MEDIO LED HEAD ON BOL ROUND TAPERED WOOD POLE
BBQ TASK LIGHT
FX BQ 1LED STAINLESS STEEL
L-01
L-02
L-03
L-04
L-05
L-06
RAMP DN
VILLA TERRACE
N SAN MATEO
L-01
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN: WP/NV
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
11/03/2025
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
CHECKED: JB
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
350 SE Mill Street   Suite 02
Portland, OR 97214
0
SCALE 1"=10'
0
5
30
50FT
0
20
0
10
08-31-26
11-04-25
E2.03B
LANDSCAPE LIGHTING
PLAN LEVEL 1B
SEE SHEET L-101A

--- page 144 ---
DN
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
POOL LIGHTING
TO BE UNDER A
SEPARATE
DESIGN/BUILD
SUBMITTAL
POOL LIGHTING
TO BE UNDER A
SEPARATE
DESIGN/BUILD
SUBMITTAL
L-04
L-04
L-05
L-02
LIGHTING SCHEDULE
SYM
CALL
OUT
LIGHT TYPE
PRODUCT
UPLIGHT
ARTI STAR FLOOD LIGHT
BOLLARD LIGHT
BEGA SHIELDED ASYMMETRIC  BOLLARD
WALL LIGHT
BEGA RECESSED WALL LUMINAIRE
LED STRIP ACCENT LIGHT
FX SRP WHITE STRIP LIGHT
MULTI-HEAD POLE LIGHT
OLIVIO MEDIO LED HEAD ON BOL ROUND TAPERED WOOD POLE
BBQ TASK LIGHT
FX BQ 1LED STAINLESS STEEL
L-01
L-02
L-03
L-04
L-05
L-06
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN: WP/NV
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
11/03/2025
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
CHECKED: JB
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
350 SE Mill Street   Suite 02
Portland, OR 97214
0
SCALE 1"=10'
0
5
30
50FT
0
20
0
10
08-31-26
11-04-25
E2.04
LANDSCAPE LIGHTING
PLAN LEVEL 2

--- page 145 ---
L-06
L-06
L-03
TYP.
L-03
TYP.
L-04
SEE ARCHITECTURAL DRAWING FOR
BUILDING LIGHTING AT EXTERIOR WALL,
SOFFITS, AND TRELLIS STRUCTURES
LIGHTING SCHEDULE
SYM
CALL
OUT
LIGHT TYPE
PRODUCT
UPLIGHT
ARTI STAR FLOOD LIGHT
BOLLARD LIGHT
BEGA SHIELDED ASYMMETRIC  BOLLARD
WALL LIGHT
BEGA RECESSED WALL LUMINAIRE
LED STRIP ACCENT LIGHT
FX SRP WHITE STRIP LIGHT
MULTI-HEAD POLE LIGHT
OLIVIO MEDIO LED HEAD ON BOL ROUND TAPERED WOOD POLE
BBQ TASK LIGHT
FX BQ 1LED STAINLESS STEEL
L-01
L-02
L-03
L-04
L-05
L-06
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN: WP/NV
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
11/03/2025
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
CHECKED: JB
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
350 SE Mill Street   Suite 02
Portland, OR 97214
0
SCALE 1"=10'
0
5
30
50FT
0
20
0
10
08-31-26
11-04-25
E2.05
LANDSCAPE LIGHTING
PLAN LEVEL 6

--- page 146 ---
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL DATA FORM
NAME: 715/723 N San Mateo Drive – 
Multifamily Residential Development
PA: 2025-031
ADDRESSES: 715, 723 & 733 
North San Mateo Drive & 247 
Villa Terrace
LOT SIZE1: 53,141 sf (when combined)
ZONING: C3-2 & E2-1.5
APNs: 032-151-130, 032-151-
300, 032-151-320 & 032-151-
160
FLOOR AREA:
Utility/Circulation:
Residential:
Leasing/Common Area:
Parking:
TOTAL:
PROPOSED
25,473 sf
152,408 sf 
8,101 sf 
25,002 sf
210,984 sf2
MAXIMUM ALLOWED
-
-
-
-
91,852 sf
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR):
3.92
C3-2: 2.0 / E2-1.5: 1.5
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY:
1812 (146.7 units/ac.)
122.14 (99 units/ac.)
BLDG. HEIGHT:
75’-11.5”
-
STORIES:
6
6
UNITS:
PROPOSED
MINIMUM SIZE
UNIT TYPE:
Studio & Urban 1-bed:
1-Bedroom:
2-Bedroom:
3-Bedroom:
NUMBER
46
79
52
4
SIZE
533-838
582-918
814-1,427
1,491-1,500
350 sf
540 sf
750 sf
960 sf
BUFFERS3:
Unobstructed Yard
Front Yard (North San Mateo Drive):
Side Yard (State Street):
Side Yard (Villa Terrace):
Rear Yard (abutting the R3 district to 
the southwest):
E2: Landscape Buffer
Side (Villa Terrace-confronting the 
R4 district to the southeast):
Rear (abutting R3 district to the 
southwest):
PROPOSED2
0’
0’
0’
2’
0’
2’
MINIMUM 
C3-2
N/A
N/A
N/A
25’
N/A
N/A
REQUIRED
E2-1.5
7’-6”
N/A
7’-6”
N/A
38’
38’
OPEN SPACE (AT-GRADE):
PROPOSED2
none
MINIMUM 
C3-2
N/A
REQUIRED
E2-1.5
6,253 sf
PARKING (RESIDENT & VISITOR):
Studio & Urban 1-bed (1.5/unit):
1-Bedroom (1.8/unit):
2-Bedroom (2/unit):
2-Bedroom over 1,400 sf & 3-
Bedroom (2.2/Unit):
TOTAL PARKING (COVERED):
PROPOSED
-
-
-
-
180
MINIMUM REQUIRED
69
142
102
11
04
LOADING SPACES:
1 10’x25’5
1
BICYCLE PARKING:
Short Term:
Long Term: 
12
196
12
196

--- page 147 ---
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL DATA FORM
FOOTNOTES:
1.
Lot area is based on the Survey provided within the project plans.
2.
The waivers to the following standards have been identified, to be applied pursuant to State Density Bonus 
Law:
a.
Floor Area and a Floor Area Ratio – For the C3-2 portion of the site, per SMMC section 27.34.050(b), 
the FAR limit is 2.0. The project would result in an FAR of 3.9.
b.
Floor Area and a Floor Area Ratio – For the E2-1.5 portion of the site, per SMMC section 27.48.060(c), 
the FAR limit is 1.5. The project would result in an FAR of 3.9. 
c.
Residential Density – The San Mateo General Plan 2040 Land Use Designation for this site is Residential 
Medium II, and the maximum base density is 99 dwellings per acre. For this 1.22-acre site, the 
maximum density is 120.7 dwellings. The proposed Project would include 181 dwelling units, exceeding 
the maximum density. However, the Project would reserve 15% of the base density (19 dwellings, or 
15.7% of the General Plan maximum) for Very-Low Income (VLI) households. Per Government Code 
section 65915(f)(2), a project with at least 15% of the dwellings reserved for VLI households is eligible 
for a density bonus of 50% of the base density. The 50% bonus applied to this site would increase the 
maximum allowable density to 182 dwellings (the General Plan density for this site is 120.7 dwellings, 
and per Government Code section 65915(q), the density is rounded up to 121 dwellings. The 50% 
bonus, when applied to this density, would allow 181.5 dwellings, and per Government Code section 
65915(q), the total number of dwellings allowed for this site is rounded up to 182 dwellings). While this 
Project would be eligible for a density increase to accommodate up to 182 dwellings, it proposes only 
181.
d.
Yards – For the E2-1.5 portion of the site, per SMMC section 27.48.090, the yard along each street 
frontage must be at least 7.5 feet. The project would not provide a yard along North San Mateo Drive 
or Villa Terrace.
e.
Buffers-Rear yard – For the C3-2 portion of the site, per SMMC sections 27.34.060, 27.30.060(a) & 
27.22.080(c), the minimum yard is 25 feet along the portion of the site that abuts the R-zoned property. 
The project would provide a 2-foot yard abutting the R-zoned property.
f.
Buffer-Landscape – For the E2-1.5 portion of the site, per SMMC section 27.48.100, a landscape buffer 
of at least one-half the height of the proposed building (or approx. 38 feet) must be provided along 
Villa Terrace and for the portion of the site that abuts the R-zoned property. The project would not 
provide a landscape buffer along Villa Terrace and would provide a 2-foot buffer, with landscaping to 
be provided via hanging vines, abutting the adjacent R-zoned property. 
g.
Parcel Coverage-Open Space – For the E2-1.5 portion of the site, per SMMC section 27.48.065, at-grade 
open space must be at least 20% of the parcel area. The project would not provide at-grade open space.
h.
Blank Walls – Per ODS section 4.1.1, “Blank walls shall be limited to a maximum of twenty (20) feet in 
length on all stories”. The ground-floor wall facing the residential district to the southwest would be 
over 10 feet in height (13 feet to 21 feet is proposed), the horizontal length would be greater than 20 
feet (326 linear feet is proposed), and the ground-floor wall would not include a transparent window 
or door.
3.
Required setback from adjacent residential district.
4.
The project site is located within ½ mile of the Downtown Burlingame Caltrain Stop, which is considered a 
major transit stop as defined in Public Resources Code section 21155, and per Government Code section 
65863.2, the City is prohibited from imposing any minimum automobile parking requirements on 
residential, commercial, or other projects as defined. Therefore, the 325-space parking minimum 
established in SMMC section 27.64.160 is not applicable to the proposed project, and the City cannot 
require any parking. Nonetheless, the Project includes a total of 180 on-site parking spaces, which are 
provided voluntarily.   
5.
Loading space to be provided within the State Street public right-of-way.

--- page 148 ---
November 7, 2025 
 
Mr. Zach Dahl 
Community Development Director 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Ave., 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
 
RE: 
PA25031 Application Resubmittal – 715 N. San Mateo Drive 
Dear Mr. Dahl, 
Prometheus Real Estate Group respectfully submits this Project Description Letter and associated 
materials in response to the City’s May 15 incompleteness letter regarding with the Project proposal 
located at 715 San Mateo Drive – PA-2025-031.  This letter modifies our July 15, 2025 formal 
application submittal correspondence to you 
 
The Project’s pre-application was submitted pursuant to SB 330, which amended the Housing 
Accountability Act (Gov. Code § 65889.5), the Permit Streamlining Act (Gov. Code § 65920 et seq.), and 
created the Housing Crisis Act of 2019 (Gov. Code § 66300).  The full application was timely submitted 
to preserve the vesting secured by the pre-application, as is this resubmittal. 
 
The SB330 Project application is consistent with the policies and guidelines of the adopted San Mateo 
General Plan 2040 in proposing a 181-unit residential development. It will allow an aging vehicle sales 
center and parking lot to convert to much needed market rate and affordable rental housing within 
walking distance to Downtown San Mateo and Caltrain. 
 
We believe that this request is fully consistent with San Mateo’s vision and goals of providing housing 
opportunities in focused areas of San Mateo as guided by the recently adopted General Plan. This 1.22-
acre site is situated within the San Mateo Drive high residential corridor between downtown San Mateo 
and Downtown Burlingame. This proposal supports guiding language of the San Mateo General Plan to 
“Encourage new development to maximize the density and intensity specified in the Land Use Plan and to 
efficiently use land and infrastructure resources” and, ”provide a range of housing types, sizes, and 
affordability levels in all San Mateo neighborhoods” (Policy LU 1.3).” Accompanying this Project 
Description Letter are the required Project plans and application documents. 
 
Moreover, we believe that the Project satisfies the requirements for a statutory CEQA exemption 
pursuant to AB 130, which went into effect on July 1.  We will provide Staff with a detailed analysis that 
supports this contention shortly. 
 
 
I. 
Project Description 
 
The Project will consist of six stories of residential units comprised of studio, one-bedroom, two- 
bedroom, and three-bedroom units over an internal and partially underground parking garage, the 
entrance of which will be visually minimized per General Plan Policy CD 7.4. The upper floors of 
residential units are oriented around a southern facing courtyard and include a pool, spa, BBQ,

--- page 149 ---
planting, and seating options. An amenity space on the 6th floor will provide a gathering space for the 
residents.   The Southwestern end of the courtyard will be anchored by the pool area surrounded by 
seating and adjacent to a gym for residents of the building. 
 
In keeping with General Plan Policy CD 7.3, the Project design enhances the neighborhood’s visual and 
architectural character by providing high-quality materials and construction, open space, and resident 
amenities, while providing much needed housing, this carefully considered design draws upon the 
immediate neighborhood context and the broader regional vernacular for design cues and inspiration 
that honor the midrise elements of San Mateo’s Multifamily Objective Design Standards (ODS), Action 
CD 7.7. Soft creamy stucco, brick (two tones), wood-appearance cladding and ironwork (per ODS 4.1.3) 
connect with the Mediterranean tradition in San Mateo architecture, while updating with 
contemporary forms.  The project intends to comply with the Public Art requirement by paying an in-
lieu fee. 
 
The street facades present refined solidity with deep carving, stepping and variation and a general 
rhythm of thirds per ODS 4.1.4, 4.1.6B1 and 4.1.6C.  The design presents a clear high-bay base with 
brick cladding per ODS4.1.6A1 and 4.1.6.B2C.  The base has deep set openings, ground floor units, 
active uses and space for planting for an inviting pedestrian experience.  At podium level, a linear 
courtyard extends through the massing with active balconies, walkways and biophilic elements.  The 
southwest corner of the building is carved back in reference to the massing context of adjacent 
neighboring buildings per ODS4.4.1B.  Facades are articulated with balconies and window recessed per 
ODS 4.1.2 B&D. The vehicular driveway is positioned on Villa Terrace per ODS 3.2.3 and all parking is 
shielded from the street and wrapped in program.  
 
II. 
Density Bonus Law 
 
The Project incorporates the use of the State Density Bonus Law (Gov. Code § 65915 [“DBL”]). The DBL 
has four distinct primary components: (1) Density Bonuses; (2) Incentives; (3) Development Standard 
Waivers; and (4) Parking Standard Waivers. Although interrelated, each component serves a different 
purpose and is governed by unique standards.  
A. 
Density Bonus 
 
Section 65915(b)(1) of the DBL provides that requests for a density bonus must be granted “when an 
applicant for a housing development seeks and agrees to construct a housing development” that meets 
one or more of the statute’s thresholds, including at least 5% of the units for Very Low Income 
households. 
 
The Project is located within the Residential Medium II land use designation of the San Mateo General 
Plan, which allows a maximum of 99 du/ac, and which equates to a maximum residential density of 121 
units on the project site. The Project implements the DBL to include 15% Very Low Income units (19 
total) and therefore receives a 50% density bonus (60 Units), which equates to a total unit count of 181 
Units. (Gov. Code § 65915(f)(2).   
 
B. 
Incentives 
A local agency must grant an incentive request unless it can make a written finding, based on substantial 
evidence, that: (1) the incentive does not result in identifiable and actual cost reductions to provide for 
affordable housing costs; (2) the incentive would have a specific, adverse impact on the public health or

--- page 150 ---
safety, or upon an historical resource; or (3) would be contrary to state or federal law. (Gov. Code 
§ 65915(d)(1).) We submit that none of those findings can be made with regard to this project. 
Recent case law confirms that an applicant is not required to establish that the requested incentive will 
result in cost reductions. In Schreiber v. City of Los Angeles (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 549, 555, the court 
explained that there is a presumption that an incentive will result in cost reductions and that an 
applicant “is not required to establish that cost reductions will result.” Instead, a city must approve the 
incentive request unless it makes one of the written findings set forth in Section 65915(d)(1) above. 
(Ibid.) “By requiring the city to grant incentives unless it makes particular findings, the statute places the 
burden of proof on the city to overcome the presumption that incentives will result in cost reductions.” 
(Id. at 556.) Because of this presumption, a city is “not required to make an affirmative finding that the 
incentives would result in cost reductions, or to cite evidence to establish a fact presumed to be true.” 
(Id. at 560.) 
 
The number of incentives is derived from the amount of affordable units that are provided. In this case, 
by providing at least 15% of the units for VLI households, the Project applicant may receive three 
incentives. (Gov. Code (§ 65915(d)(2)(C).) This Project Application does not identify the use of any 
Incentives at this time.  However, we reserve our right to identify and seek the three incentives 
available in response to feedback from City staff during the entitlement process. 
 
C. 
Development Standard Waivers 
 
In addition to, and separate from, requests for incentives, a DBL applicant may request a waiver or 
reduction of development standards that would have the effect of physically precluding the construction 
of the project proposed by the developer. (Gov. Code § 65915(e)(1).) The definition of a “development 
standard” includes a site or construction condition, including, without limitation, local height, setback, 
floor area ratio, onsite open space, and parking area ratio requirements that would otherwise apply to 
residential development pursuant to ordinances, general plan elements, specific plans, charters, or 
other local condition, law, policy, resolution, or regulation. (Gov. Code § 65915(o)(1).) A request for a 
development standard waiver neither reduces nor increases the number of incentives to which the 
developer is otherwise entitled. (Gov. Code § 65915(e)(2).) Furthermore, there is no limit on the 
number of waivers that may be issued. 
As with incentives, recent case law has clarified the legal principles regarding waivers. The Schreiber 
case confirms that a city may refuse a request to waive or reduce development standards only if it 
makes written findings that the waiver or reduction would have a specific adverse impact on the public 
health or safety. (Id. at 556; Gov. Code § 65915(e)(1).) In addition, another new case upholding a city’s 
approval of a DBL project confirmed that waivers are based on the project as proposed by the 
developer: “even if we assume the Project as designed is inconsistent with some of the City’s design 
standards, the Density Bonus Law would preclude the City from applying those standards to deny this 
project.” (Bankers Hill 150 v. City of San Diego (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 755, 775.) Therefore, a local agency 
may not respond to a waiver request that a Project could be redesigned to avoid the need for a waiver. 
(Id. at 774-775 [rejecting argument that the Project “could have been built more horizontally” to comply 
with design standards.”].)  In addition, HCD has notified various local agencies that they cannot require a 
qualifying DBL project to be redesigned in order to avoid the need for a waiver.  Last year, HCD advised 
the City of Oceanside as follows: “HCD reminds the City that appellate courts have established (and 
continue to affirm) that local agencies cannot lawfully redesign a qualifying SDBL project on the theory 
that if the project were configured differently, it would not need the requested incentives/concessions 
and waivers. (Wollmer v. City of Berkeley (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1329, 1346–1347.)  The City must

--- page 151 ---
consider the Project as proposed, inclusive of any requested concessions or waivers.”1   
 
 
At this point, we identify the following waivers or reductions to the development standards identified 
below: 
• 
4.1.1 Blank Walls (Objective Design Standards) 
o The rear façade requires a blank wall in order to contain the internal parking garage. 
o The development standard, which requires a minimum of 20 feet of blank 
wall, would physically preclude development of the Project if the waiver was 
not provided. 
 
• 
Floor Area and a Floor Area Ratio that is greater than allowed (2.0 max per SMMC Section 
27.34.050(b) for the C3-2 portion of the site & 1.5 max per SMMC Section 27.48.060(c) for E2-
1.5 portion of the site);  
o The project is in compliance with the General Plan 2040 – ‘Residential densities for 
the land use designations are expressed in terms of dwelling units per acre (du/ac).’ 
o For any pre existing Zoning designations regarding FAR, a Waiver is being requested. 
 
• 
Building height that is greater than allowed by the Building Height Plan of the General Plan 
(40’ per SMMC Section 27.34.055 for the C3-2 portion of the site & 40’ per SMMC Section 
27.48.070 for E2-1.5 portion of the site);  
o The project is in compliance with the General Plan 2040 Residential Medium II land 
use designation and height standards of 6 Stories. 
o For any pre existing Zoning designations regarding height, a Waiver is being 
requested. 
 
• 
Side yard that is less than allowed for the portion of the site that abuts an R zoned property 
(6’ min per SMMC Sections 27.34.060, 27.30.060(a)(2) & 27.22.080(c) for the C3-2 portion of 
the site);  
o For this Zoning standard regarding side yard dimensions, a Waiver is being 
requested. 
 
• 
At-grade open space that is less than allowed (20% min per SMMC Section 27.48.065 for the 
E2-1.5 portion of the site);  
o For this Zoning standard regarding at-grade open space, a Waiver is being requested. 
 
• 
Yards along each street frontage that are less than allowed (7.5’ per SMMC Section 
27.48.090 for E2-1.5 portion of the site); and  
o For this Zoning standard regarding yard dimensions, a Waiver is being requested. 
 
• 
Landscape buffer that is less than allowed for the portion of the site that abuts an R zoned 
property (one-half the height of the proposed building per SMMC Section 27.48.100 for E2-
1.5 portion of the site).  
o For this Zoning standard regarding landscape buffer, a Waiver is being requested. 
 
D. 
Parking Standard Waivers and AB 2097 
 
1 
HCD Letter of Technical Assistance to City of Oceanside dated January 10, 2023.

--- page 152 ---
Parking ratio reductions are separate from the incentives and waivers identified above. By providing 
more than 11% VLI units, the Project may request a cap of 0.5 spaces per unit because the Project is 
within a half mile of a major transit stop with unobstructed access. (Gov. Code § 65915(p)(2).) 
Separately from the DBL, AB 2097, prevents the City from imposing any minimum parking requirements 
on the Project, which is located within one-half mile of public transit. (Gov. Code§ 65863.2.) 
Nevertheless, the Project currently proposes 182 Parking spaces. 
 
As a brief introduction to our firm, Prometheus owns and/or manages over 13,000 apartment homes on 
the west coast and is the largest private owner of apartments in the Bay Area. Prometheus is a long- 
term owner and operator, having built its first project in Sunnyvale in 1968. Two of Prometheus’ most 
recent projects are in the City of San Mateo, 303 Baldwin (the former Trags site) and 1st and B. 
Prometheus Real Estate Group is a local firm with our headquarters in Downtown San Mateo. 
We appreciate your consideration of this request and look forward to working with you and the City on 
this proposed Project. Please contact me or Jonathan Stone at jstone@prometheusreg.com 
(650.931.3448) should you have any questions regarding our proposed application or our firm. 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Don Peterson 
Senior Vice President 
Prometheus Real Estate Group 
1 North B Street, Suite 4000 
San Mateo, CA 94401 
(650) 931-3569 
 
CC: 
Jonathan Stone

--- page 153 ---
Memorandum 
Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory & Natsis LLP 
Attorneys at Law 
www.allenmatkins.com 
 
 
Los Angeles | Orange County | San Diego | Century City | San Francisco | New York 
Three Embarcadero Center, 12th Floor | San Francisco, CA 94111-4074 | Telephone: 415.837.1515 | Facsimile: 415.837.1516 
Allen Matkins 
Confidential:  Attorney-Client Privileged 
Communication and Attorney Work Product 
To: Prometheus Real Estate Group 
From: David H. Blackwell 
Date 
August 11, 2025 
Telephone: 415.273.7463 
E-mail: dblackwell@allenmatkins.com 
File Number: 372819.00030/4917-2528-5210.3 
 
Subject: 
Applicability of AB 130 CEQA Exemption to the Ford Site/715 N. San Mateo 
Drive, San Mateo Project, PA-2025-031 
On June 30, 2025, a new statutory CEQA exemption for multifamily housing development 
projects was enacted as part of Assembly Bill 130 (“AB 130”) and became effective immediately. 
(See Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66.) The new AB 130 statutory CEQA exemption is similar to the 
existing categorical Class 32 exemption under the CEQA Guidelines, except that AB 130: 1) 
accommodates larger residential projects; 2) reduces legal risks by limiting opportunity for third party 
challenges (no “unusual circumstances” challenges are permitted); and 3) creates a strict project 
approval timeline starting with application completeness. 
This memorandum reviews the application materials for the 715 N. San Mateo Drive Project 
(“Project”) proposed at 715 N. San Mateo Dr., San Mateo, California (“Property”) to determine the 
applicability of the new AB 130 CEQA exemption to the Project. Additionally, this memorandum 
briefly outlines how the streamlined approval timeline will impact the Project. We note that unlike 
the Class 32 Exemption, an analysis of potential impacts related to traffic, noise, air quality, and 
water quality will not be required to support the exemption. Instead, the project site must meet all of 
the SB 35 siting criteria (see below). Therefore, qualifying housing development projects should be 
processed much more quickly since technical studies should not be required, with the possible 
exception of a desktop biological resources survey.  
 As we explain below, the Project qualifies for the AB 130 CEQA exemption. We recommend 
that this memorandum be shared with the City of San Mateo (“City”) before the Project application is 
deemed complete (or Prometheus notifies the City that it qualifies for AB 130) so that the City will 
be in a position to timely initiate the mandatory tribal consultation process, discussed in Section II 
below.

--- page 154 ---
To: Prometheus Real Estate Group 
From: David H. Blackwell 
Date:  August 11, 2025 
Page 2 
 
 
4917-2528-5210.3/  
372819-00030/8-11-25/dhb/dhb 
 
 
 
I. 
NEW CEQA EXEMPTION ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify for the AB 130 CEQA exemption, the project must satisfy specific site and project 
requirements. Unlike other housing streamlining laws enacted in recent years, AB 130 does not 
contain any affordability requirements, and labor requirements are limited to only a narrow class of 
projects, none of which fit the description for the Project. As described below, the Project fits each of 
the AB 130 qualifying criteria. 
a. Housing project. The project must be a housing development project, which is 
defined to include: (1) projects consisting of residential uses only; (2) mixed-use 
projects where at least two-thirds of the new or converted square footage is designated 
for residential use; (3) mixed-use projects with greater than 500 units where at least 
half of the new or converted square footage is designated for residential use and other 
specific requirements are met; (4) transitional housing or supportive housing; and (5) 
farmworker housing. (Gov. Code §§ 65589.5(h)(2), 65905.5(b); Pub. Res. Code 
§ 21080.66(a).)  
The Project meets this requirement because it will be developed with 100% residential 
uses. 
b. Acreage. The project site must be 20 acres or less, except Builder’s Remedy project 
sites must be 5 acres or less. (Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66(a)(1).) 
The Project meets this requirement because it is not a Builder’s Remedy project and 
the Property is 1.22 acres. 
c. Urban area. The project site must be within the boundaries of an incorporated 
municipality or in an urban area, as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau. (Pub. Res. 
Code § 21080.66(a)(2).) 
The Project meets this requirement because it is within the City of San Mateo, an 
incorporated municipality. 
d. Infill location. The project site must be an urban infill site, meaning that: (i) the site 
was previously developed with an urban use; (ii) at least 75% of the perimeter of the 
site adjoins parcels that are developed with urban uses; (iii) at least 75% of the area 
within a one-quarter mile radius of the site is developed with urban uses; or (iv) for 
sites with four sides, at least three sides are developed with urban uses and at least

--- page 155 ---
To: Prometheus Real Estate Group 
From: David H. Blackwell 
Date:  August 11, 2025 
Page 3 
 
 
4917-2528-5210.3/  
372819-00030/8-11-25/dhb/dhb 
 
 
two-thirds of the perimeter of the site adjoins parcels that are developed with urban 
uses. (Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66(a)(3).) 
The Project meets this requirement because the Property is currently developed with a 
vehicular sales center and residence, which qualify as “urban uses.” The Property 
also qualifies under the other definitions of urban infill site because it is surrounded 
on at least 75% of the perimeter, or three of four sides, by urban uses. 
e. Environmental siting criteria. The project must meet environmental siting criteria 
set forth in SB 35/423. To qualify, a site must not be located in any of the following: 
1) certain areas of the coastal zone; 2) prime farmland, farmland of statewide 
importance, or land designated for agricultural protection or preservation; 3) wetlands; 
4) a very high fire hazard severity zone (unless certain mitigation measures adopted); 
5) a hazardous waste site; 6) a delineated earthquake fault zone; 7) a 100-year flood 
hazard area or regulatory floodway; 8) lands identified for conservation or under a 
conservation easement; or 9) habitat for protected species. (Pub. Res. Code 
§ 21080.66(a)(6); Gov. Code § 65913.4(a)(6).) 
The Project meets this requirement because the Property does not fall within any of 
the prohibited categories. Specifically: 
i. The Property is not within the coastal zone; 
ii. The Property is not on land used or designated for agriculture; 
iii. The Property is not on a wetland; 
iv. The Property is not within a very high fire hazard severity zone, per our review 
of the Office of the State Fire Marshal’s Fire Hazard Severity Zone maps; 
v. The Property is not on a hazardous waste site, per our review of the Cortese 
List of hazardous waste sites; 
vi. The Property is not within a delineated earthquake fault zone, per our review 
of the California Department of Conservation’s Earthquake Hazards Zone 
Application; 
vii. The Property is not within a 100-year flood hazard area nor a regulatory 
floodway, per our review of FEMA’s National Flood Hazard Layer Viewer;

--- page 156 ---
To: Prometheus Real Estate Group 
From: David H. Blackwell 
Date:  August 11, 2025 
Page 4 
 
 
4917-2528-5210.3/  
372819-00030/8-11-25/dhb/dhb 
 
 
viii. The Property is not on lands identified for conservation or subject to a 
conservation easement; 
ix. The Property is not habitat for protected species. 
f. Land use regulations. The project must be consistent with the applicable general plan 
and zoning ordinance, as well as any applicable local coastal program. If the general 
plan and zoning ordinance are inconsistent, the project need only be consistent with 
one. Use of any State Density Bonus Law density bonus, incentive or concession, 
waiver, or reduced parking ratio shall not be grounds to determine the project is 
inconsistent with the zoning, general plan, or local coastal program. The housing 
development shall be deemed consistent if there is substantial evidence that would 
allow a reasonable person to conclude as such. (Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66(a)(4).) 
The Project meets this requirement because it is consistent with the land use 
designations for the Property. The Property is designated “Residential Medium II” in 
the City’s 2040 General Plan and is within the Executive Office (“E2-1.5”) zoning 
district. The Residential Medium II designation permits residential uses, with a 
maximum density range of 51 – 99 dwelling units per acre. The E2-1.5 zoning district 
permits residential uses subject to R3 district minimum development standards. 
Because the Property is over 50,000 square feet, those standards require a minimum 
1,250 square feet of parcel area per dwelling unit, or roughly 42 dwelling units per 
acre. This is inconsistent with the minimum density of the Residential Medium II 
general plan designation. Under AB 130, if the general plan and zoning are 
inconsistent, then the Project shall be deemed consistent with both if it is consistent 
with one. 
Per the Project application, the residential density will be 99 dwelling units per acre 
which is within the General Plan range for the Property. Further, because the Project 
qualifies for a density bonus, any development standards that would preclude 
development of the Project as designed, such as the minimum parcel area per dwelling 
unit standard, will be waived or reduced. 
g. Minimum density. The proposed residential density must be at least 50% of the 
minimum residential density deemed appropriate to accommodate housing for the 
jurisdiction. Depending on the type of jurisdiction (nonmetropolitan, suburban, or 
metropolitan), the minimum density ranges from 5 to 15 units per acre. (Gov. Code § 
65583.2(c)(3)(B); Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66(a)(5).)

--- page 157 ---
To: Prometheus Real Estate Group 
From: David H. Blackwell 
Date:  August 11, 2025 
Page 5 
 
 
4917-2528-5210.3/  
372819-00030/8-11-25/dhb/dhb 
 
 
The Project meets this requirement because, with a proposed density of 99 dwelling 
units per acre, it has a greater density than the highest statutory minimum density of 
15 units per acre. 
h. Historic structures. The project does not require the demolition of a historic structure 
that was placed on a national, state, or local historic register before the date a 
preliminary application (as defined) was submitted. (Pub. Res. Code 
§ 21080.66(a)(7).) 
The Project meets this requirement because none of the existing structures to be 
demolished are on a national, state, or local historic register. 
i. Freeway proximity. For any housing within 500 feet of a freeway, the building: (i) 
must have a centralized heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning system and the 
outdoor intakes for that system cannot face the freeway; (ii) must provide air filtration 
media for outside and return air that provide a minimum efficiency reporting value of 
16, which must be replaced as specified; and (iii) must not have any balconies facing 
the freeway. (Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66(c)(2).) 
The project is not within 500 feet of a freeway.  
j. Tribal notice. The City must notify all California Native American tribes that are 
traditionally and culturally affiliated with the project site, and consult with any tribe 
that elects to be involved, as specified in the statute. Related conditions of project 
approval may be imposed. (Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66(b).) 
During preparation of the EIR for the 2040 General Plan, the City identified the 
following tribes as potentially having local knowledge: 1) Amah Mutsun Tribal Band 
of Mission San Juan Bautista; 2) Costanoan Rumsen Carmel Tribe; 3) Indian Canyon 
Mutsun Band of Costanoan; 4) Muwekma Ohlone Indian Tribe of the SF Bay Area; 5) 
The Ohlone Indian Tribe; and 6) Wuksache Indian Tribe/Eshom Valley Band. Of 
these, only the Canyon Mutsun Band of Costanoan Ohlohne People responded. 
Therefore, it is possible that this tribe will respond to a consultation request for the 
Project. 
k. Phase I environmental site assessment. A Phase I Environmental Site Assessment 
(“ESA”) must be performed for the project site, and if a recognized environmental 
condition is found, certain steps must be taken to ensure there is no threat to human 
health or safety, as specified in the statute. (Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66(c)(1).)

--- page 158 ---
To: Prometheus Real Estate Group 
From: David H. Blackwell 
Date:  August 11, 2025 
Page 6 
 
 
4917-2528-5210.3/  
372819-00030/8-11-25/dhb/dhb 
 
 
A Phase I and II ESA for the Property was prepared for Prometheus Real Estate 
Group on March 29, 2023. No Recognized Environmental Conditions (“RECs”), 
Controlled Recognized Environmental Conditions (“CRECs”), Historical Recognized 
Environmental Conditions (“HRECs”), Business Environmental Risks (“BERs”), or 
significant data gaps were identified.  
No further actions were recommended in the Phase I ESA. 
l. Transient lodging. For new projects “deemed complete” on or after January 1, 2025, 
no portion of the project may be designated for use as transient lodging (as defined). 
“Deemed complete” means that an SB 330 preliminary application or a complete 
application (pursuant to Gov. Code § 65943) has been submitted for the project. (Pub. 
Res. Code § 21080.66(a)(8).) 
The Project meets this requirement because none of the proposed components will be 
used for transient lodging. 
m. Labor requirements. Any building over 85 feet in height (from grade) is subject to 
the SB 35 labor standards, including prevailing wage requirements, recordkeeping 
requirements, additional labor standards for developments over 50 units, and 
additional skilled and trained workforce requirements. (Pub. Res. Code 
§ 21080.66(d)(2); see Gov. Code § 65913.4(a)(8).) All construction workers employed 
in the execution of public or private housing development projects where 100% of 
units will be dedicated to lower income households shall be paid prevailing wages; 
registered apprentices may be paid the applicable apprentice prevailing rate. (Pub. 
Res. Code § 21080.66(d)(1).) 
The Project will not be required to comply with the above labor provisions because it 
will not be over 85 feet in height, nor will 100% of the units be dedicated to lower 
income households. 
II. 
NEW PROJECT APPROVAL TIMELINE 
AB 130 also amended the Permit Streamlining Act (“PSA”) to create a new approval timeline 
for agencies with approval authority over projects that qualify for the AB 130 CEQA exemption. 
(Gov. Code § 65950(a)(7).) The amended PSA states that an agency must approve or disapprove the 
project “[t]hirty days from the conclusion of [the tribal consultation process]” for projects invoking 
the new CEQA exemption. (Id.)

--- page 159 ---
To: Prometheus Real Estate Group 
From: David H. Blackwell 
Date:  August 11, 2025 
Page 7 
 
 
4917-2528-5210.3/  
372819-00030/8-11-25/dhb/dhb 
 
 
Additionally, the tribal consultation process itself contains statutory approval timelines that, 
when combined with the new PSA provisions, establish a single approval timeline for an AB 130 
project starting with application completeness, or for applications already deemed complete, when 
the applicant notifies the City that the project qualifies for AB 130. Because the tribal consultation 
process can conclude in multiple ways, the exact timing cannot be determined from the outset. At a 
minimum, if no tribes elect to participate in the consultation, a project must be approved no later than 
104 days from the date of application completeness/AB 130 notification. If a tribe elects to 
participate in the consultation, a project must be approved no later than 178 days from the date of 
application completeness/AB 130 notification, but may be approved earlier.  
At this time, we understand the Project’s application is under review with the City Planning 
Department. Under AB 130, the approval timeline begins either when the application is deemed 
complete, or for projects with already completed applications, when the applicant notifies the City 
that the project qualifies for AB 130. (Gov. Code § 21080.66(b)(1)(A)(i)-(ii); § 65589.5(h)(5).) For 
the purposes of AB 130, “deemed complete” means the applicant has submitted an SB 330 
preliminary application. (Id.) Therefore, if a preliminary application was previously submitted for the 
Project, Prometheus can start the approval timeline immediately by notifying the City that the Project 
qualifies for AB 130. Note that the City only has 14 days from the date of application 
completeness/AB 130 notification to provide formal notification to tribes. Therefore, we recommend 
informing the City as soon as possible that the Project will utilize the AB 130 CEQA exemption to 
ensure that there are no delays once the application is deemed complete or Prometheus makes an AB 
130 notification. As stated above, at least one tribe participated in the preparation of the 2024 General 
Plan, so it is possible that the Project may go through this consultation process.

--- page 160 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive 
Residential Development  
Local Transportation Analysis 
Prepared for: 
Prometheus Real Estate Group, Inc. 
March 5, 2026 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc. 
Hexagon Office: 100 Century Center Court, Suite 501 
San Jose, CA 95112 
Phone: 408.971.6100 
Hexagon Job Number: 25KK11 
Client Name: Prometheus Real Estate Group, Inc.

--- page 161 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
 
Table of Contents 
Executive Summary ................................................................................................................................. i 
1. 
 Introduction ................................................................................................................................... 1 
2. 
 Existing Transportation Conditions ................................................................................................ 7 
3. 
 Opening Year Conditions ............................................................................................................ 14 
4. 
 Cumulative Conditions ................................................................................................................ 20 
5. 
 Other Transportation Issues ........................................................................................................ 23 
Appendices 
Appendix A   Traffic Counts 
Appendix B 
Volume Sheets 
Appendix C 
Intersection Level of Service Calculations 
List of Tables 
Table ES-1  Intersection Level of Service Summary............................................................................. iii 
 
Table 1       Unsignalized Intersection Level of Service Definitions Based on Average Delay .................. 5 
Table 2       Existing Transit Services ...................................................................................................... 8 
Table 3       Existing Intersection Levels of Service ............................................................................... 13 
Table 4       Project Trip Generation Estimates...................................................................................... 15 
Table 5       Opening Year Plus Project Intersection Levels of Service .................................................. 18 
Table 6       Cumulative Intersection Levels of Service .......................................................................... 22 
Table 7       Intersection Queueing Analysis .......................................................................................... 24 
Table 8       Bicycle Parking Requirements ........................................................................................... 31 
 
List of Figures 
Figure 1 
 Site Location and Study Intersections ................................................................................ 2 
Figure 2 
 Proposed Site Plan ............................................................................................................ 3 
Figure 3 
 Existing Transit Services ................................................................................................... 9 
Figure 4 
 Existing Bicycle Facilities ................................................................................................. 11 
Figure 5 
 Existing Traffic Volumes and Lane Configurations ........................................................... 12 
Figure 6 
 Walking Distance from Station to Entrance ...................................................................... 16 
Figure 7 
 Project Trip Distribution and Assignment ......................................................................... 17 
Figure 8 
 Opening Year Plus Project Traffic Volumes ..................................................................... 19 
Figure 9 
 Cumulative Traffic Volumes ............................................................................................. 21 
Figure 10 
 Parking Garage Plans ..................................................................................................... 26

--- page 162 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  i  
Executive Summary 
This report presents the results of the local transportation analysis conducted for the residential 
development proposed at 715 North San Mateo Drive in San Mateo, California. The site consists of four 
parcels (APNs 032-151-130, -160, -300, -320) along the south side of San Mateo Drive, with frontage 
along State Street, San Mateo Drive, and Villa Terrace. The project proposes to demolish two existing 
vacant commercial buildings and parking lots formerly used as car dealerships and a single family 
detached house and construct a 6-story residential building consisting of 181 residential units 
(consisting of 162 market-rate units and 19 below market-rate units for very-low income households). A 
parking garage would be located on the first floor and the basement level. Vehicle access to the parking 
garage would be provided by a single full-access driveway located along Villa Terrace. 
This study evaluates potential local transportation effects of the project in accordance with the 
standards set forth by the City of San Mateo.  
Project Trip Estimates 
The Institute of Transportation Engineers’ (ITE) Trip Generation Manual, 12th Edition, was used to 
estimate the vehicle trips that would be generated by the project. After applying the appropriate ITE trip 
generation rate, the proposed project is estimated to generate a gross of 807 daily trips, with 69 trips 
(16 inbound and 53 outbound) during the AM peak hour and 69 trips (44 inbound and 25 outbound) 
during the PM peak hour. 
Intersection Level of Service Analysis 
The results of the intersection level of service analysis (see Table ES-1) show that all study 
intersections would operate at an acceptable level of service with and without the addition of project 
trips under all evaluated scenarios. 
Other Transportation Issues 
Traffic associated with the project would not contribute to any increase in vehicle queues at any of the 
studied intersections. The proposed site plan shows that the project would provide generally adequate 
site access and on-site circulation, and would not interfere with pedestrian, bicycle, or transit circulation 
in the area. The project is not subject to any minimum vehicular parking requirements and would 
provide adequate bicycle parking. The project should consider the following recommendations resulting 
from the site plan review:

--- page 163 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  i i  
Recommendations 
• 
The security gate at the driveway should be installed approximately 30 feet from the sidewalk in 
order to minimize the effect of queueing on the sidewalk and traffic operations on Villa Terrace.  
• 
Appropriate visual and/or audible warning signals should be provided at the project driveway to 
alert pedestrians of vehicles exiting the driveway. 
• 
Landscaping near the driveway and intersection corners should be placed and maintained such 
that it does not interfere with sight distance. Trees should have a high canopy of at least 6 feet 
and other landscaping should be kept at a low level below 3 feet.  
• 
Landscaping provided at corners should be less than 3 feet tall at the corner to maintain the 
required sight distance. 
• 
Each tandem parking space and adjacent parking should be assigned to the same unit.

--- page 164 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
 
     March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  i i i  
Table ES-1 
 
Intersection Level of Service Summary 
 
#
Intersection
Pk Hr
Control
Avg. 
Delay
LOS
Avg. 
Delay
LOS
Change in 
Avg Delay1
Avg. 
Delay
LOS
Avg. 
Delay
LOS
Change in 
Avg Delay2
1
AM
18.8
C
19.7
C
0.9
22.9
C
24.3
C
1.4
PM
20.7
C
22.5
C
1.8
24.3
C
26.8
D
2.5
2
AM
9.0
A
9.0
A
0.0
9.0
A
9.0
A
0.0
PM
8.8
A
8.9
A
0.1
8.9
A
8.9
A
0.0
3
AM
-
-
8.9
A
-
-
-
9.0
A
-
PM
-
-
9.0
A
-
-
-
9.0
A
-
Existing 
Conditions
Opening Year + Project
Cumulative 
Conditions
Cumulative + Project
San Mateo Drive & Villa 
Terrace
TWSC
Highland Avenue & Villa 
Terrace
OWSC
TWSC = Two-Way Stop Control, OWSC = One-Way Stop Control
'-' indicates scenario does not evaluate this intersection
1Compared to Existing Conditions
Project Dwy & Villa 
Terrace
OWSC
Notes
For TWSC and OWSC intersections, delay represents worst approach delay and LOS represents worst approach LOS
2 Compared to Cumulative Conditions

--- page 165 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  1  
1.  
Introduction 
This report presents the results of the local transportation analysis conducted for the residential 
development proposed at 715 North San Mateo Drive in San Mateo, California (see Figures 1 and 2). 
The site consists of four parcels (APNs 032-151-130, -160, -300, -320) along the south side of San 
Mateo Drive, with frontage along State Street, San Mateo Drive, and Villa Terrace. The project 
proposes to demolish two existing vacant commercial buildings and parking lots formerly used as car 
dealerships and a single family detached house and construct a 6-story residential building consisting 
of 181 residential units (consisting of 162 market-rate units and 19 below market-rate units for very-low 
income households). A parking garage would be located on the first floor and the basement level. 
Vehicle access to the parking garage would be provided by a single full-access driveway located along 
Villa Terrace. 
Scope of Study 
The purpose of this study is to identify potential local transportation effects of the project in accordance 
with standards and methodologies set forth by the City of San Mateo. 
Local Transportation Analysis (LTA) 
The City of San Mateo requires projects to measure intersection operations and to provide 
improvements or address project related operational deficiencies through a Local Transportation 
Analysis (LTA). The LTA also includes an evaluation of the project’s effect on transit, bicycle, and 
pedestrian access, a review of site access and circulation, and a parking analysis. 
This study analyzes the traffic effects of the project on the key intersections in the vicinity of the site 
during the weekday AM and PM peak hours of traffic. The weekday AM peak hour is generally between 
7:00 AM and 9:00 AM and the weekday PM peak hour is generally between 4:00 PM and 6:00 PM. On 
a typical weekday (Tuesday through Thursday), these are the periods when the most congested traffic 
generally occurs. 
This study includes an analysis of the weekday peak-hour traffic conditions of three intersections, as 
listed below, in accordance with the City’s TIA guidelines. 
Study Intersections 
1. San Mateo Drive and Villa Terrace 
2. Highland Avenue and Villa Terrace 
3. Project Driveway and Villa Terrace

--- page 166 ---
1/2-mile radius
Burlingame
San
Mateo
1
2
3
Howard Ave
Howard Ave
Howard Ave
Bayswater Ave
Bayswater Ave
Bayswater Ave
E Santa Inez Ave
E Santa Inez Ave
E Santa Inez Ave
Burlingame Ave
Burlingame Ave
Burlingame Ave
Burlingame
Caltrain
Station
Burlingame
Caltrain
Station
Burlingame
Caltrain
Station
Peninsula Ave
State St
Villa Ter
Grand Blvd
El Camino Real
N San Mateo Dr
N Claremont St
California Dr
Highland Ave
E Poplar Ave
N Delaware St
X
= Study Intersection
= Site Location
= High‐Quality Transit Area
LEGEND
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA
Figure 1
Site Location & Study Intersections

--- page 167 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA
Figure 2
Proposed Site Plan
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
ELEV 1
EV
E
202 SF
FIRE
COMMAND
536 SF
MAIL/PACKAGE
1046 SF
921 SF
COWORKING
816 SF
ND/LEASING
25001 SF
PARKING
ELEV 2
EV
EV
E
1574 SF
BIKE PARKING
MUDDY
PAWS
250 SF
POOL EQUIPMENT
1086 SF
MAINTENANCE
838 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UC
773 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
753 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
URBAN 1 BED
741 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
66 SF
SF
IDF
STAIR 2
ELECTRIC
MPOE
1325 SF
ELECTRIC
ELECTRIC
193 S
193 SF
RESTROOMS
E
R
ESTR
E
R
ST
S
KIN
IN
IN
EL CTR

--- page 168 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  4  
Intersection traffic conditions were evaluated for the following scenarios: 
• 
Existing Conditions. Existing AM and PM peak-hour traffic volumes were obtained from new 
turning-movement counts conducted on October 30, 2025. Traffic counts are included in 
Appendix A. 
• 
Opening Year Plus Project Conditions. Per the City of San Mateo’s development project 
database, accessed November 18, 2025, there are no approved developments near the project 
site that would be expected to add traffic to the study intersections. Thus, the opening year plus 
project conditions were estimated by adding the new traffic estimated to be generated by the 
project to existing traffic volumes. Intersection effects associated with the development would be 
evaluated relative to existing conditions.  
• 
Cumulative No Project Conditions. Cumulative traffic volumes represent traffic volumes and 
roadway conditions projected at the City’s General Plan Buildout in the year 2040. The City’s 
recently adopted General Plan did not produce intersection volume forecasts. Thus, cumulative 
traffic volumes were developed using the latest citywide travel demand model. 
• 
Cumulative Plus Project Conditions. Cumulative plus project traffic volumes were estimated 
by adding to the cumulative traffic volumes the new traffic generated by the project. Intersection 
effects associated with the development will be evaluated relative to cumulative conditions. 
Other Transportation Issues 
The study includes an evaluation of potential operational deficiencies related to transit services and a 
review of site access, on-site circulation, traffic calming, and parking. 
Intersection Operations Analysis Methodology 
This section presents the methods used to determine traffic conditions at the study intersections. It 
includes descriptions of the data requirements, the analysis methodologies, and the applicable level of 
service standards. 
Data Requirements 
The data required for the analysis was obtained from traffic counts, the City of San Mateo, and field 
observations. The following data was collected: 
• 
Existing traffic volumes 
• 
Lane geometries 
• 
List of approved developments 
• 
Cumulative Volumes 
Intersection Level of Service Analysis Methodologies and Standards 
Traffic conditions at the study intersections were evaluated using level of service (LOS). Level of 
service is a qualitative description of operating conditions ranging from LOS A, or free-flow conditions 
with little or no delay, to LOS F, or jammed conditions with excessive delays. This study utilizes 
Synchro software to determine intersection levels of service based on the latest HCM methodology. 
Unsignalized Intersections  
Level of service analysis at unsignalized intersections is generally used to determine the need for 
modifications in the type of intersection control (i.e., all-way stop or signalization). As part of the 
evaluation, traffic volumes, delays and traffic signal warrants are evaluated to determine if the existing 
intersection control is appropriate.

--- page 169 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  5  
For unsignalized intersections, level of service depends on the average delay experienced by vehicles 
on the stop-controlled approaches. For side street stop-controlled intersections (two-way or T-
intersections), operations are defined by the average control delay experienced by vehicles entering the 
intersection from the stop-controlled approaches on minor streets or from left-turn approaches on major 
streets. The level of service is reported based on the average delay for the worst approach. The level of 
service definitions for unsignalized intersections are shown in Table 1.  
The City of San Mateo’s level of service standard for unsignalized intersections is LOS E. 
Table 1       
Unsignalized Intersection Level of Service Definitions Based on Average Delay  
 
Intersection Vehicle Queuing Analysis 
The analysis of intersection operations was supplemented with a vehicle queuing analysis at 
intersections where the project would add a substantial number of trips to the left-turn movements or 
stop-controlled approaches. The vehicle queuing analysis is used to determine the appropriate storage 
lengths for the high demand turn lanes where the project would add a substantial number of trips.  
An evaluation of vehicle queuing was conducted using the Synchro software, utilizing its estimate of the 
95th percentile number of queued vehicles and a comparison of this estimate to available storage space 
for the movement assuming 25 feet per vehicle.  
Definition of Adverse Intersection Operational Effects 
A local transportation analysis was conducted to evaluate the project’s consistency with the level of 
service standards set forth in the City’s guidelines and to identify feasible improvements to remedy 
deficiencies. Adverse operational effects at study intersections are based on the City of San Mateo 
standards.  
An adverse traffic operations issue is identified by the City for unsignalized intersections if the addition 
of traffic generated by the proposed project results in one of the following for either peak hour: 
1. The addition of project traffic causes the average intersection delay for all-way stop-controlled or 
the worst movement/approach for side-street stop-controlled intersections to degrade to LOS F, 
or 
Level of Service
Description
Average Control Delay per Vehicle (sec.)
B
Short traffic delays
10.1 to 15.0
A
Little or no traffic delay
10.0 or less
C
Average traffic delays
15.1 to 25.0
D
Long traffic delays
25.1 to 35.0
E
Very long traffic delays
35.1 to 50.0
F
Extreme traffic delays
greater than 50.0
   Source: Transportation Research Board, Highway Capacity Manual, 7th Edition (Washington, D.C.,2022)

--- page 170 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  6  
2. An intersection that operates below its level of service standard under no-project conditions 
experiences an increase in critical-movement delay of four (4) or more seconds when project 
traffic is added. 
If the operations of an unsignalized intersection become deficient based on LOS then an adverse effect 
would occur when: (1) an unsignalized intersection with project traffic is forecast to operate at 
unacceptable LOS, and (2) if it meets the peak hour signal warrants for existing intersections, and the 
daily warrants for planned intersections under the California Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices 
(CA MUTCD). If a project is near a school or downtown area with substantial pedestrian activity then 
City may require additional warrants to be evaluated such as pedestrian, accident history, etc. 
Report Organization 
This report has a total of five chapters. Chapter 2 describes the existing roadway network, transit 
service, bicycle and pedestrian facilities, and intersection levels of service. Chapter 3 presents the 
method used to estimate project traffic and the resulting intersection levels of service under opening 
year plus project conditions. Chapter 4 presents the method used to estimate cumulative volumes, and 
the resulting levels of service under cumulative no project and cumulative plus project conditions. 
Chapter 5 presents the analysis of other transportation-related issues, including intersection queuing, 
site access and circulation, parking, and effects to pedestrian, bicycle, and transit facilities.

--- page 171 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  7  
2.  
Existing Transportation Conditions 
This chapter describes the existing conditions for transportation facilities in the vicinity of the site, 
including the roadway network, transit services, pedestrian and bicycle facilities, and traffic operations 
at the study intersections.  
Existing Roadway Network 
Regional access to the project site is provided via US 101 and El Camino Real (also known as State 
Route 82 or SR 82). Local access to the site is provided via San Mateo Drive, State Street, Highland 
Avenue, and Villa Terrace. These facilities are described below. 
US 101 is a north-south, ten-lane freeway (four mixed-flow lanes and one express lane in each 
direction) in the vicinity of the site. US 101 extends northward to San Francisco and southward to San 
Jose. Access to and from the site is provided by interchanges at Poplar Avenue for southbound US 101 
and at Airport Boulevard for northbound US 101. 
El Camino Real (SR 82) is a north-south highway with four lanes in the vicinity of the site. It is 
designated as a principal arterial per the City of San Mateo General Plan 2040. SR 82 extends from 
San Francisco to San Jose. Continuous sidewalks are provided on both sides of the street, with on-
street parking not being allowed in the project vicinity. In the project vicinity, the posted speed limit is 35 
miles per hour (mph). Access to and from the site is provided via State Street.  
San Mateo Drive is a north-south minor arterial per the General Plan. It has one lane in each direction 
and extends from 5th Avenue in the south to Peninsula Avenue in the north where it transitions into 
California Drive. It has a posted speed limit of 30 mph. On-street parking is allowed on both sides of the 
street. Continuous sidewalks are present on both sides of the street. There is a Class III bike route with 
sharrows on both sides of the street from 5th Avenue to Catalpa Street and Class II bike lanes on both 
sides of the street from Catalpa Street to Peninsula Avenue where it transitions back to a bike route. 
San Mateo Drive provides access to and from the project via Villa Terrace. 
State Street is an east-west local street per the General Plan. It has one lane in each direction and 
extends from San Mateo Drive in the east to El Camino Real in the west. It has a posted speed limit of 
25 mph. On-street parking is allowed on both sides of the street. Continuous sidewalks are present on 
both sides of the street. Access to the project is provided by Highland Avenue and San Mateo Drive. 
Highland Avenue is a north-south local street per the General Plan. It has one lane in each direction 
and extends from California Drive in the north to Santa Inez Avenue in the south. It has a posted speed 
limit of 25 mph. On-street parking is allowed on both sides of the street. Continuous sidewalks are 
present on both sides of the street. Access to and from the site is provided by Villa Terrace.

--- page 172 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  8  
Villa Terrace is an east-west local street per the General Plan. It has one lane in each direction and 
extends from Highland Avenue in the west to Claremont Street in the east. It has a posted speed limit 
of 25 mph. On-street parking is allowed on both sides of the street. Continuous sidewalks are present 
on both sides of the street. Villa Terrace provides direct site access through a proposed full-access 
driveway approximately 150 feet west of its intersection with San Mateo Drive. 
Existing Transit Services 
Existing public transit services in the study area are provided by SamTrans and Caltrain. SamTrans 
operates bus routes in San Mateo County, including routes ECR, 292, 46, 53/53P and 397 within 0.5 
miles of the project site. The nearest bus stop to the project site is located approximately 0.2 miles from 
the project site at the intersection of California Avenue/San Mateo Drive and Peninsula Avenue and is 
served by route 292. Caltrain provides commuter transit across the Bay Area from San Francisco to 
Gilroy, with the nearest station to the project site being the Burlingame station, located slightly over 0.5 
miles from the proposed main entrance to the project by foot. Public transit options in the vicinity of the 
site are shown in Table 2 and Figure 3. 
Table 2       
Existing Transit Services 
 
Headways1
Route
Route Description
(minutes)
Bus Routes
Route ECR
Daly City BART - Palo Alto 
Transit Center
4:40 AM - 1:20 AM (next 
day)
15
El Camino Real at State 
Street
1,400
Route 292
San Francisco - Hillsdale 
Mall
4:10 AM - 1:50 AM (next 
day)
20
San Mateo 
Drive/California Avenue 
at Peninsula Avenue
1,000
School-Oriented Routes
Route 46
Burlingame Intermediate 
School - Carolan at 1060
7:50 AM - 8:30 AM and 
2:20 PM - 3:50 PM
N/A2
Myrtle Road at 
Burlingame Avenue
2,700
Route 53 & 53P
Borel Middle School - 
Peninsula/Humboldt
7:30 AM - 7:50 AM and 
2:10 PM - 3:50 PM
N/A2
Delaware Street at 
Bellevue Avenue
2,500
Late-Night Route
Route 397 OWL
San Francisco - Palo Alto 
Transit Center
2:05 AM - 5:40 AM 
(does not operate during 
peak hours)
N/A3
El Camino Real at State 
Street
1,400
Train Services
Caltrain
Gilroy - San Francisco
5:20 AM - 12:30 AM 
(next day)
30
Burlingame Caltrain 
Station
2,500
Notes:
3 Route 397 provides three northbound buses and four southbound buses each morning.
2 Routes 46 and 53/53P provide two buses in the same direction in the AM hour and two buses in the other direction in the PM hour Monday 
through Friday.
Weekday Hours
of Operation
Nearest Stop
Walking Distance from 
Nearest Stop to 
Project Site (feet)
1 Headways during weekday peak periods as of November 2025.

--- page 173 ---
ECR
397
292
292
53
53P
53P
53P
53P
53
46
46
46
53P
53, 53P,
 292
397, ECR
397, ECR
292
292
397, ECR
53P
Howard Ave
Howard Ave
Howard Ave
Bayswater Ave
Bayswater Ave
Bayswater Ave
E Santa Inez Ave
E Santa Inez Ave
E Santa Inez Ave
Burlingame Ave
Burlingame Ave
Burlingame Ave
Burlingame
Caltrain
Station
Burlingame
Caltrain
Station
Burlingame
Caltrain
Station
Peninsula Ave
State St
Villa Ter
Grand Blvd
El Camino Real
N San Mateo Dr
N Claremont St
California Dr
Highland Ave
E Poplar Ave
N Delaware St
LEGEND
= Site Location
XX
= SamTrans Routes serving South County
XXX
= SamTrans Routes connecting to 
   BART and Caltrain Stations
= Nearby Bus Stop
XX
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA
Figure 3
Existing Transit Services

--- page 174 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  1 0  
Existing Pedestrian Facilities 
Pedestrian facilities consist of sidewalks and crosswalks. Sidewalks are present on all streets in the 
nearby project area. Crosswalks with pedestrian signal heads and push buttons are provided at all 
signalized intersections surrounding the site. 
Within 0.5 mile of the project site, curb ramps are present at all signalized intersections and most 
unsignalized intersections. Most corners meet current ADA curb ramp designs.  
The project site is located in a primarily residential area, with nearby commercial areas predominantly 
providing auto-related services. Downtown Burlingame and Downtown San Mateo are located 
approximately 11 minutes (0.5 miles) and 16 minutes (0.7miles) away by foot, respectively. These 
areas are accessible from the project site via sidewalks. 
Existing Bicycle Facilities 
The bicycle facilities that exist within a half mile of the project site (see Figure 4) include striped bike 
lanes (Class II bikeways), and bike routes (Class III bikeways). Class II bike lanes are lanes on 
roadways designated for use by bicycles with special lane markings, pavement legends, and signage. 
Class III bike routes are streets with signage and pavement markings where bicyclists share a travel 
lane with motorists. 
Bike facilities in the project area are described below: 
Bike Lane (Class II) 
• 
San Mateo Drive (from Peninsula Avenue to Catalpa Street) 
• 
Delaware Street (from Poplar Avenue to Indian Avenue) 
• 
Humboldt Street (from Peninsula Avenue to 9th Avenue) 
• 
Poplar Avenue (from El Camino Real to Claremont Street) 
• 
Howard Avenue (from Myrtle Road to Humboldt Street) 
Bike Route (Class III) 
• 
San Mateo Drive/California Drive (from Peninsula Avenue to Oak Grove Avenue) 
• 
Delaware Street (from Peninsula Avenue to 1st Avenue) 
• 
Monte Diablo Avenue (east of San Mateo Drive, connecting to the Bay Trail via a 
bicycle/pedestrian-only crossing over US-101) 
Existing Lane Configurations and Traffic Volumes 
The existing lane configurations at the study intersections were obtained from observations in the field. 
Existing peak-hour intersection volumes were obtained from turning movement counts collected on 
October 30, 2025, when nearby schools were in session, during typical peak traffic hours between 7:00 
AM and 9:00 AM and between 4:00 PM and 6:00 PM. Existing lane configurations and peak-hour 
intersection traffic volumes are shown in Figure 5. Traffic counts are presented in Appendix A. 
Existing Intersection Levels of Service 
The results of the intersection level of service analysis show that all of the study intersections are 
currently operating at acceptable levels of service (see Table 3). The intersection levels of service 
calculation sheets are included in Appendix C.

--- page 175 ---
Howard Ave
Howard Ave
Howard Ave
Monte Diablo Ave
Monte Diablo Ave
Monte Diablo Ave
Indian Ave
Indian Ave
Indian Ave
Bayswater Ave
Bayswater Ave
Bayswater Ave
N Humboldt St
N Humboldt St
N Humboldt St
E Santa Inez Ave
E Santa Inez Ave
E Santa Inez Ave
Burlingame Ave
Burlingame Ave
Burlingame Ave
Burlingame
Caltrain
Station
Burlingame
Caltrain
Station
Burlingame
Caltrain
Station
Peninsula Ave
State St
Villa Ter
Grand Blvd
El Camino Real
N San Mateo Dr
N Claremont St
California Dr
Highland Ave
E Poplar Ave
N Delaware St
= Existing Bike Lanes (Class II Bikeway)
= Existing Bike Routes (Class III Bikeway)
LEGEND
= Site Location
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA
Figure 4
Existing Bicycle Facilities

--- page 176 ---
Burlingame
San
Mateo
1
2
3
Howard Ave
Howard Ave
Howard Ave
Bayswater Ave
Bayswater Ave
Bayswater Ave
E Santa Inez Ave
E Santa Inez Ave
E Santa Inez Ave
Burlingame Ave
Burlingame Ave
Burlingame Ave
Burlingame
Caltrain
Station
Burlingame
Caltrain
Station
Burlingame
Caltrain
Station
Peninsula Ave
State St
Villa Ter
Grand Blvd
El Camino Real
N San Mateo Dr
N Claremont St
California Dr
Highland Ave
E Poplar Ave
N Delaware St
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA
Figure 5
Existing Traffic Volumes and Lane Configurations
STOP
STOP
STOP
STOP
X
= Stop Sign
= Study Intersection
= Site Location
LEGEND
STOP
= AM(PM) Peak-Hour Traffic Volumes
XX(XX)
Highland
Ave
Dr
Villa
Ter
Villa
Ter
Mateo
N San
Villa
Ter
Proj
Dwy
2
1
3
5(13)
389(429)
29(30)
22(22)
347(524)
8(10)
33(14)
6(2)
25(22)
4(2)
3(1)
14(15)
23(19)
8(12)
6(7)
28(19)
13(15)
3(12)
19(25)
14(19)
Highland
Ave
N. San
Mateo
Dr
Villa
Ter
Villa
Ter
Villa
Ter
Proj
Dwy
2
1
3

--- page 177 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  1 3  
Table 3       
Existing Intersection Levels of Service 
 
Observed Existing Traffic Conditions 
Traffic conditions were observed in the field in November 2025 to identify any existing operational 
deficiencies and to confirm the accuracy of calculated levels of service. The purpose of this effort was 
to identify any existing traffic problems that may not be directly related to intersection level of service, 
and to identify any locations where the level of service analysis does not accurately reflect existing 
traffic conditions. No operational issues or queueing deficiencies were observed.  
 
#
Intersection
Pk Hr
Control
Avg. 
Delay
LOS
1
AM
18.8
C
PM
20.7
C
2
AM
9.0
A
PM
8.8
A
3
AM
-
-
PM
-
-
Existing 
Conditions
San Mateo Drive & Villa 
Terrace
TWSC
Highland Avenue & Villa 
Terrace
OWSC
TWSC = Two-Way Stop Control, OWSC = One-Way Stop Control
'-' indicates scenario does not evaluate this intersection
Project Dwy & Villa 
Terrace
OWSC
Notes
For TWSC and OWSC intersections, delay represents worst approach delay 
and LOS represents worst approach LOS

--- page 178 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  1 4  
 
3.  
Opening Year Conditions 
This chapter presents opening year traffic conditions, which are defined as conditions just prior to 
completion of the project. Traffic volumes for opening year conditions comprise volumes from existing 
traffic counts plus traffic generated by approved but not yet constructed developments in the vicinity of 
the project site. This chapter describes the method for determining generated trips, the procedure used 
to determine opening year traffic volumes, and the resulting traffic conditions. 
Project Trip Estimates 
The magnitude of traffic produced by the new development and the locations where that traffic would 
appear were estimated using a three-step process: (1) trip generation, (2) trip distribution, and (3) trip 
assignment. In determining project trip generation, the magnitude of traffic entering and exiting the site 
is estimated for the AM and PM peak hours. As part of the project trip distribution, an estimate is made 
of the directions to and from which the project trips would travel. In the project trip assignment, the 
project trips are assigned to specific streets and intersections. These procedures are described below. 
Trip Generation 
Through empirical research, data have been collected that quantify the amount of traffic produced by 
many types of land uses. The research is compiled in the ITE Trip Generation Manual, 12th Edition. 
The magnitude of traffic added to the roadway system by a particular development is estimated by 
multiplying the applicable trip generation rates by the size of the development.  
The rate for “Multi-Family Housing (Mid-Rise) – Not Close to Rail Transit” (Land Use Code 221) was 
used to estimate trips generated by the proposed development. The Trip Generation Manual also 
provides rates for projects close to rail transit. Per the ITE manual, ‘a site is considered close to rail 
transit if the walking distance between the residential site entrance and the closest rail transit station 
entrance is ½ - mile or less.’ 
It is important to note that the methods used to measure distance from transit are different between the 
ITE Trip Generation Manual and the method used to measure distance between a project and a major 
transit stop under AB 2097 (whose parking requirement exemptions can be applied to this project as 
discussed in Chapter 5), which utilizes a straight line drawn from any point on the project’s parcel and 
the nearest edge of the parcel containing a major transit stop, and does not reference walking distance.  
The project’s main entrance would be approximately 0.52 miles by foot from the nearest point of the 
Burlingame Caltrain Station, and as such would be unable to apply the “close to rail transit” trip

--- page 179 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  1 5  
generation rate as the walking distance between the two is over 0.5 miles (see Figure 6). Furthermore, 
because the project would be on the borderline of eligibility, using the rate for sites not close to rail 
transit ensures a conservative analysis. 
The project site is currently vacant aside from one single-family detached house. As a conservative 
approach, no existing trip credits from the single family home were applied for the trip generation.  
Based on these trip rates, the project is estimated to generate a gross of 807 daily trips, with 69 trips 
(16 inbound and 53 outbound) during the AM peak hour and 69 trips (44 inbound and 25 outbound) 
during the PM peak hour (see Table 4). 
Table 4       
Project Trip Generation Estimates 
 
Trip Distribution and Assignment 
The trip distribution pattern for the proposed residential development was estimated based on traffic 
patterns on the surrounding roadway system and the locations of complementary land uses. The peak-
hour trips associated with the project site were added to the roadway network in accordance with the 
distribution pattern discussed above, the roadway network connections, freeway access points, and the 
locations of the project driveway.  
Figure 7 shows the trip distribution pattern and trip assignment at the study intersections. A tabular 
summary of project traffic at each study intersection is contained in Appendix B. 
Roadway Network Under Opening Year Conditions 
The transportation network under opening year conditions (without and with project) is assumed to be 
the same as the roadway network under existing conditions. 
Opening Year Traffic Volumes 
Per the City of San Mateo’s development project database, accessed November 3, 2025, there are  
 
 
Land Use
Rate Trips
Rate
In Out Total
Rate
In Out Total
Proposed Land Uses
#221 -  Multifamily Housing (Mid-Rise)
181 Dwelling Units
4.46
807
0.38
16
53
69
0.38
44 25
69
Total Project Trips
807
16
53
69
44 25
69
Source: ITE Trip Generation Manual (12th Edition, 2025)
PM Peak Hour
AM Peak Hour
Size
Trips
Trips
Daily

--- page 180 ---
Anita Rd
Anita Rd
Anita Rd
Arundel Rd
Arundel Rd
Arundel Rd
Lorton Ave
Lorton Ave
Lorton Ave
Bloomfield Rd
Bloomfield Rd
Bloomfield Rd
Howard Ave
Howard Ave
Howard Ave
Bayswater Ave
Bayswater Ave
Bayswater Ave
Burlingame Ave
Burlingame Ave
Burlingame Ave
Burlingame
Caltrain
Station
Burlingame
Caltrain
Station
Burlingame
Caltrain
Station
Peninsula Ave
State St
Villa Ter
El Camino Real
N San Mateo Dr
California Dr
Highland Ave
= Pedestrian Path
LEGEND
= Site Location
Site Entrance
Pedestrian Path 
0.52 Miles
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA
Figure 6
Walking Distance from Station to Entrance

--- page 181 ---
Burlingame
San
Mateo
101
1
2
3
Burlingame
Caltrain
Station
Burlingame
Caltrain
Station
Burlingame
Caltrain
Station
N Amphlett Blvd
N Amphlett Blvd
N Amphlett Blvd
Peninsula Ave
State St
Warren Rd
Villa Ter
Grand Blvd
El Camino Real
N San Mateo Dr
N Claremont St
California Dr
Highland Ave
E Poplar Ave
N Delaware St
N Bayshore Blvd
15%
15%
5%
30%
30%
5%
7(18)
7(18)
22(10)
22(10)
1(3)
1(3)
4(2)
45(21)
8(4)
14(37)
2(7)
X
= Trip Distribution
= Study Intersection
= Site Location
LEGEND
XX%
= AM(PM) Peak-Hour Trips
XX(XX)
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA
Figure 7
Project Trip Distribution and Assignment
Highland
Ave
N San
Mateo
Dr
Villa
Ter
Villa
Ter
Villa
Ter
Proj
Dwy
2
1
3
4(2)

--- page 182 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  1 8  
no approved developments near the project site that would add significant amounts of traffic to the 
study intersections. Thus, the opening year plus project conditions were estimated by adding project 
trips to existing traffic volumes the new traffic estimated to be generated by the project. Opening year 
plus project traffic volumes are shown in Figure 8 and Appendix B  
Intersection Levels of Service 
The results of the intersection level of service analysis (see Table 5) show that all study intersections 
would operate at acceptable levels during both the AM and PM peak hours of traffic under existing and 
opening year plus project conditions. The intersection level of service calculation sheets for each 
scenario are included in Appendix C. 
Table 5       
Opening Year Plus Project Intersection Levels of Service 
 
 
 
#
Intersection
Pk Hr
Control
Avg. 
Delay
LOS
Avg. 
Delay
LOS
Change in 
Avg Delay1
1
AM
18.8
C
19.7
C
0.9
PM
20.7
C
22.5
C
1.8
2
AM
9.0
A
9.0
A
0.0
PM
8.8
A
8.9
A
0.1
3
AM
-
-
8.9
A
-
PM
-
-
9.0
A
-
Existing 
Conditions
Opening Year + Project
San Mateo Drive & Villa 
Terrace
TWSC
Highland Avenue & Villa 
Terrace
OWSC
TWSC = Two-Way Stop Control, OWSC = One-Way Stop Control
'-' indicates scenario does not evaluate this intersection
1Compared to Existing Conditions
Project Dwy & Villa 
Terrace
OWSC
Notes
For TWSC and OWSC intersections, delay represents worst approach delay and LOS represents worst approach 
LOS

--- page 183 ---
Burlingame
San
Mateo
101
1
2
3
Howard Ave
Howard Ave
Howard Ave
Bayswater Ave
Bayswater Ave
Bayswater Ave
E Santa Inez Ave
E Santa Inez Ave
E Santa Inez Ave
Burlingame Ave
Burlingame Ave
Burlingame Ave
Burlingame
Caltrain
Station
Burlingame
Caltrain
Station
Burlingame
Caltrain
Station
Peninsu
State St
Villa Ter
Grand Blvd
El Camino Real
N San Mateo Dr
N Claremont St
California Dr
Highland Ave
E Poplar Ave
N Delaware St
X
= Study Intersection
= Site Location
LEGEND
= AM(PM) Peak-Hour Traffic Volumes
XX(XX)
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA
Figure 8
Opening Year Plus Project Traffic Volumes
Highland
Ave
Dr
Villa
Ter
Villa
Ter
Mateo
N San
Villa
Ter
Proj
Dwy
2
1
3
12(31)
389(429)
29(30)
22(22)
347(524)
15(28)
33(14)
6(2)
25(22)
26(12)
3(1)
36(25)
23(19)
9(15)
7(10)
28(19)
17(17)
7(14)
45(21)
8(4)
19(25)
14(37)
2(7)
14(19)

--- page 184 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  2 0  
 
4.  
Cumulative Conditions 
This chapter describes the roadway traffic operations under cumulative no project conditions and 
cumulative plus project conditions. The chapter includes the procedures used to determine cumulative 
traffic volumes and a description of the resulting traffic conditions and any adverse effects caused by 
the project.  
Roadway Network under Cumulative Conditions 
The roadway network under cumulative conditions was assumed to be the same as the opening year 
conditions as described in Chapter 3. 
Cumulative Traffic Volumes 
Cumulative traffic volumes were developed using the latest citywide travel demand model, in 
consultation with City’s modeling on-call consultant Kittelson & Associates. Cumulative model volumes 
were developed using 2040 as the horizon year, reflecting the City’s General Plan buildout. As a 
conservative measure, the cumulative condition volumes were assumed to not include the traffic 
associated with the addition of the project. For cumulative plus project traffic volumes, the trips 
generated by the project (see Chapter 3) were added to the cumulative no project traffic volumes to 
yield cumulative plus project traffic volumes. Figure 9 shows volumes under cumulative and cumulative 
plus project conditions. A tabular summary of the cumulative traffic volumes at each study intersection 
is contained in Appendix B.

--- page 185 ---
Burlingame
San
Mateo
1
2
3
Howard Ave
Howard Ave
Howard Ave
Bayswater Ave
Bayswater Ave
Bayswater Ave
E Santa Inez Ave
E Santa Inez Ave
E Santa Inez Ave
Peninsula Ave
State St
Villa Ter
Grand Blvd
El Camino Real
N San Mateo Dr
N Claremont St
California Dr
Highland Ave
E Poplar Ave
N Delaware St
X
= Study Intersection
= Site Location
LEGEND
= AM(PM) Peak-Hour Traffic Volumes
XX(XX)
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA
Figure 9
Cumulative No Project and Plus Project Traffic Volumes
Highland
Ave
Dr
Villa
Ter
Villa
Ter
Mateo
N San
Villa
Ter
Proj
Dwy
2
Cumulative
Cumulative + Project
1
3
6(14)
440(472)
33(33)
25(24)
392(576)
9(11)
37(15)
7(2)
28(24)
5(2)
3(1)
16(17)
26(21)
9(13)
7(8)
32(21)
15(17)
3(13)
21(28)
16(21)
13(32)
440(472)
33(33)
25(24)
392(576)
16(29)
37(15)
7(2)
28(24)
27(12)
3(1)
38(27)
26(21)
10(16)
8(11)
32(21)
19(19)
7(15)
45(21)
8(4)
21(28)
14(37)
2(7)
16(21)
Highland
Ave
N. San
Mateo
Dr
Villa
Ter
Villa
Ter
Villa
Ter
Proj
Dwy
2
1
3

--- page 186 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  2 2  
Cumulative Intersection Levels of Service 
The results of the intersection level of service analysis show that all study intersections would operate 
at acceptable levels of service during both AM and PM peak hours under cumulative and cumulative 
plus project conditions (see Table 6). The level of service calculation sheets are included in Appendix 
C. 
Table 6       
Cumulative Intersection Levels of Service 
#
Intersection
Pk Hr
Control
Avg. 
Delay
LOS
Avg. 
Delay
LOS
Change 
in Avg 
Delay1
1
AM
22.9
C
24.3
C
1.4
PM
24.3
C
26.8
D
2.5
2
AM
9.0
A
9.0
A
0.0
PM
8.9
A
8.9
A
0.0
3
AM
-
-
9.0
A
-
PM
-
-
9.0
A
-
Cumulative 
Conditions
Cumulative + Project
San Mateo Drive & Villa 
Terrace
TWSC
Highland Avenue & Villa 
Terrace
OWSC
TWSC = Two-Way Stop Control, OWSC = One-Way Stop Control
'-' indicates scenario does not evaluate this intersection
1Compared to Cumulative Conditions
Project Dwy & Villa 
Terrace
OWSC
Notes
For TWSC and OWSC intersections, delay represents worst approach delay and LOS represents worst 
approach LOS

--- page 187 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  2 3  
5.  
Other Transportation Issues 
This chapter presents other transportation issues associated with the project, including: 
• 
Vehicle queuing analysis 
• 
Site access and circulation 
• 
Effects on pedestrians, bicycles, and transit facilities 
• 
Parking 
The analyses in this chapter are based on the City’s Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines and 
professional judgment in accordance with the standards and methods employed by the traffic 
engineering community.  
Vehicle Queuing Analysis 
The analysis of intersection levels of service was supplemented with a vehicle queuing analysis for left-
turn lanes or stop controlled approaches at intersections where the project would add a substantial 
number of trips. This analysis provides a basis for estimating future storage requirements at the 
intersections under existing, opening year, and cumulative conditions. Vehicle queues were estimated 
using Synchro software. The following movements were evaluated: 
• 
San Mateo Drive and Villa Terrace (Northbound Approach) 
• 
San Mateo Drive and Villa Terrace (Eastbound Approach) 
The Synchro queueing analysis indicates that at the intersection of San Mateo Drive and Villa Terrace, 
the 95th percentile queue would not exceed one vehicle on the northbound or eastbound approach 
under any of the evaluated scenarios. Traffic associated with the project would contribute to a queue 
increase of up to one vehicle at the intersection’s northbound approach. The results of the queueing 
analysis are shown in Table 7.

--- page 188 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  2 4  
 
Table 7       
Intersection Queueing Analysis 
 
AM
PM
AM
PM
Existing
Cycle/Delay1 (sec)
8.1
8.7
13.7
14.8
Volume (vph)
423
472
21
18
Number of lanes
1
1
1
1
Volume (vphpl)
423
472
21
18
95th %. Queue (veh/ln)2
0
0
1
1
95th %. Queue (ft/ln)
0
0
25
25
Storage (ft/ln)3
160
160
145
145
Adequate (Y/N)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Opening Year Plus Project
Cycle/Delay1 (sec)
8.1
8.8
17
20
Volume (vph)
430
490
65
38
Number of lanes
1
1
1
1
Volume (vphpl)
430
490
65
38
95th %. Queue (veh/ln)2
0
1
1
1
95th %. Queue (ft/ln)
0
25
25
25
Storage (ft/ln)3
160
160
145
145
Adequate (Y/N)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Cumulative
Cycle/Delay1 (sec)
8.2
8.9
15.2
15.8
Volume (vph)
479
519
24
20
Number of lanes
1
1
1
1
Volume (vphpl)
479
519
24
20
95th %. Queue (veh/ln)2
0
0
1
1
95th %. Queue (ft/ln)
0
0
25
25
Storage (ft/ln)3
160
160
145
145
Adequate (Y/N)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Cumulative Plus Project
Cycle/Delay1 (sec)
8.3
9
19.8
22.7
Volume (vph)
486
537
68
40
Number of lanes
1
1
1
1
Volume (vphpl)
486
537
68
40
95th %. Queue (veh/ln)2
0
1
1
1
95th %. Queue (ft/ln)
0
25
25
25
Storage (ft/ln)3
160
160
145
145
Adequate (Y/N)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Notes:
1 Delay of movement used for unsignalized intersections.
2 Synchro reports the queue length. Assume 25 feet per vehicle queued.
3 Distance from intersection to project driveway on Villa Terrace and 
nearest commercial driveway on San Mateo Drive.
Analysis Scenario
 L/T/R = Left/Through/Right movement
San Mateo Drive and Villa Terrace
EBL/T/R Lane
NBL/T/R Lane

--- page 189 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  2 5  
Site Access and Circulation 
A review of the project site plan was performed to determine if adequate site access and on-site 
circulation would be provided and to identify any access or circulation issues that should be improved. 
This review is based on the site plan dated November 7, 2025 (see Figure 2 in Chapter 1 and Figure 
10). 
Vehicular Site Access 
Vehicular site access would be provided via a new 20-foot wide full-access driveway to enter the 
garage. The driveway would be on Villa Terrace, approximately 150 feet west of San Mateo Drive.  
Based on the City’s Zoning Code Section 27.64.025, driveways serving three or more parking spaces 
must be minimum 12 feet wide and maximum 20 feet wide. Thus, the proposed 20-foot-wide driveway 
meets the city’s driveway width requirements. 
Traffic Operations at the Project Driveway 
The project is estimated to generate 69 trips (16 inbound and 53 outbound) during the AM peak hour 
and 69 trips (44 inbound and 25 outbound) during the PM peak hour (see Table 4). As shown in Tables 
5 and 6, the driveway will operate at an acceptable level of service under all evaluated scenarios. Less 
than 1 vehicle per minute per direction is expected to utilize the driveway during either peak period 
assuming an even distribution. However, it is likely that there will be instances during which multiple 
vehicles arrive at the driveway at the same time, potentially causing a short queue to form temporarily.  
The site plan indicates that a security gate would be installed at the driveway, approximately 17 feet 
from the sidewalk (see Figure 10). Assuming a vehicle length of 25 feet, it is possible that inbound 
vehicles may temporarily block the sidewalk while waiting for the gate to open. In the event that multiple 
vehicles arrive at the same time, vehicles may need to wait in the street and would temporarily block 
traffic. Storage space at the driveway before the security gate should be lengthened in order to prevent 
this. Given the existing site plan, the security gate should be relocated to approximately 30 feet away 
from the sidewalk.  
Recommendation: The security gate at the driveway should be installed approximately 30 feet from 
the sidewalk in order to minimize the effect of queueing on the sidewalk and traffic operations on Villa 
Terrace.  
Sight Distance at Project Driveway 
The project driveway should be free and clear of any obstructions to provide adequate sight distance, 
thereby ensuring that exiting vehicles can see pedestrians on the sidewalk and vehicles and bicycles 
traveling on Villa Terrace. Providing the appropriate sight distance reduces the likelihood of a collision 
at a driveway and provides drivers with the ability to locate sufficient gaps in traffic and exit a driveway. 
Any landscaping and signage should be located in such a way to ensure an unobstructed view for 
drivers exiting the site. Based on the site plan, trees would be added along the project frontage on Villa 
Terrace. Trees near the driveway should have a high canopy so as to not obstruct the view of drivers. 
The driveway is not set back from the sidewalk and has walls blocking exiting vehicles’ view of 
pedestrians using the sidewalk. A pedestrian warning system should be implemented in order to alert 
pedestrians on the sidewalk of exiting vehicles. 
A minimum of 6 feet of red curb is required on each side of the driveway. The project would provide 6 
feet of red curb to the east of the driveway, and 20 feet to the west, complying with this requirement.  
In the vicinity of the project, Villa Terrace has a slight curve, though this does not affect sight distance.

--- page 190 ---
Figure 10
Garage Plans
Basement Level Parking
1st Level Parking
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA
NPA Design Vehicle 
NPA Design Vehicle 
RAMP UP
827 SF
BOILER
STAIR 2
ELEV 1
ELEV 2
STAIR 1
BFPS AND PUMPS
ELEVATOR LOBBY
28'-0"
RAMP UP
24'-0"
8'-6"
17'-0"
STALL
8'-0"
23'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
2'-6"
TO PL
17'-0"
STALL
2'-2"
TO PL
142'-0"
8'-0"
18'-0"
STALL
18'-0"
STALL
24'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
18'-0"
STALL
18'-0"
STALL
24'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
18'-0"
STALL
T
T
8'-6"
24'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
8'-6"
18'-0"
STALL
24'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
18'-0"
STALL
T
22'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
8'-0"
24'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
8'-6"
9'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
T
24'-0"
9'-0"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
9'-3"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
10'-0"
10'-0"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-9"
8'-6"
9'-9"
3'-0"
8'-6"
8'-6"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
4'-812"
9'-0"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-0"
5'-11"
9'-0"
8'-6"
9'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
3'-0"
9'-6"
9'-6"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
9'-6"
9'-6"
8'-0"
9'-6"
9'-6"
8'-0"
9'-6"
9'-3"
9'-3"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
10'-0"
17'-0"
STALL
9'-6"
8'-0"
9'-6"
9'-6"
8'-0"
9'-6"
22'-0"
DRIVE AISLE
7.5%
17.5%
EL = -8'-8"
17'-0"
STALL
3'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-6"
8'-0"
9'-6"
9'-6"
8'-0"
9'-6"
9'-6"
8'-0"
9'-6"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
10'-0"
18" x 30" TYP.
18'-0"
18'-0"
9'-0"
22'-9"
DRIVE
AISLE
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2
RAMP DN
BIKEPARKING
EVCS-L2
EV
READY
EV
READY
W/ 8' SIDE
AISLE
RAMP DN
38' - 0 1/2"
1
1
ELEV 1
LOBBY
FIRE COMMAND
MAIL/PACKAGE
OPEN
22'-9"
DRIVE
AISLE
6'-6"
24'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
18'-0"
STALL
18'-0"
STALL
18'-0"
STALL
24'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
18'-0"
STALL
24'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
N.   S A N   M A T E O
S T A T E   S T R E E T
V I L L A   T E R R A C E
18'-0"
STALL
18"
10'-0"
9'-3"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
3'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
3'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-6"
7.5%
17.5%
EL = 1'-6 1/2"
18" X 30" COL, TYP.
17'-0"
STALL
W/ 8' SIDE
AISLE
EV
READY
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
28'-0"
24'-0"
10'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
18'-0"
STALL
22'-0"
DRIVE
AISLE
EV
READY
EVCS
-L2
EVCS
-L2

--- page 191 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  2 7  
Recommendation: Appropriate visual and/or audible warning signals should be provided at the project 
driveway to alert pedestrians of vehicles exiting the driveway. 
Recommendation: Landscaping near the driveway should be placed and maintained such that it does 
not interfere with sight distance. Trees should have a high canopy of at least 6 feet and other 
landscaping should be kept at a low level below 3 feet.  
Corner Visibility at Intersection 
The project site fronts the corners of San Mateo Drive’s intersections with Villa Terrace and State 
Street. The intersection corners should be free and clear of any obstructions to optimize corner visibility 
per the City’s standards, ensuring the vehicles approaching the intersection can see other vehicles, 
bicycles, or pedestrians traveling on the cross street. Any landscaping and signage within the safety 
visibility triangle at the intersection corner should be no taller than 3 feet and located in such a way to 
ensure an unobstructed view for drivers on the street.  
The site plan proposes new bulb-outs at the eastern corner of San Mateo Drive and Villa Terrace and 
the southern corner of San Mateo Drive and State Street. The bulb-outs would shorten the crossing 
distances for pedestrians and increase driver visibility at the corners.  
Recommendation: Landscaping provided at corners should be less than 3 feet tall at the corner to 
maintain the required sight distance.  
Vehicular On-Site Circulation 
Within the site, a two-way 24-foot-wide ramp provides access between the ground-level and basement 
parking levels. Each parking level provides only 90-degree parking spaces (see Figure 10). 
Garage Ramp 
City code requires two-way ramps within garages to be designed with gradual slopes and maintain a 
minimum width of 24 feet curb-to-curb and 28 feet wall-to-wall on turns. The site plan includes a ramp 
used to access the below-ground parking level from the ground-level parking level. The ramp has a 
slope of 17.5 percent with 7.5 percent transitions at each end. It has a width of 24 feet curb-to-curb and 
28 feet wall-to-wall on its turn, meeting the City’s requirement for width.  
Drive Aisles 
Based on the City’s standard details for parking, two-directional aisles with standard 90-degree parking 
stalls on both sides should be a minimum of 24 feet wide, while two-directional aisles with compact 90-
degree parking stalls on both sides should be a minimum of 22 feet wide. All proposed drive aisles with 
standard stalls on both sides are 24 feet wide, and the aisle in the basement level with compact stalls 
on both sides is 23 feet wide. The aisles with compact stalls on one side are 22 feet and 9 inches wide. 
Each parking level also includes a drive aisle with no parking on either side measuring 22 feet wide. 
Thus, the drive aisles provided within the garage areas would meet the City’s minimum requirements. 
Parking Stalls 
The proposed dimensions of standard stalls are 18 feet long and 8.5 to 9 feet wide. The proposed 
dimensions of compact stalls are 17 feet long and 8 feet wide. The proposed standard and compact 
parking stalls would meet the City’s minimum requirements. The below-ground parking level also 
includes 4 tandem parking stalls, which would be accessed through the adjacent parking stalls. The 
tandem parking space and adjacent parking should be assigned to one unit. 
Recommendation: Each tandem parking space and adjacent parking should be assigned to one unit. 
Accessible Stalls

--- page 192 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  2 8  
5 ADA parking stalls would be provided on the ground floor parking level per the site plan. Each stall is 
adjacent to an 8-foot-wide access aisle and is 9 feet wide and 18 feet long. All accessible parking stalls 
are near an elevator and an entrance to the building lobby, connected with designated walkways. 
Section 1109A of the California Building Code stipulates that residential parking facilities must provide 
ADA accessible parking stalls at a minimum rate of 2 percent of the covered multifamily dwelling units. 
The project, having 181 dwelling units, must thus provide a minimum of 4 ADA accessible parking 
stalls, with 5 being indicated in the site plan. The proposed number of accessible parking stalls would 
meet the requirement.   
Dead-End Aisles 
On-site vehicle circulation was also evaluated to identify whether there would be dead-end aisles within 
the parking garage (see Figure 10). Dead-end aisles are undesirable because drivers can enter the 
aisle, and upon discovering that there is no available parking, must back out or conduct three-point 
turns. The garage plan shows dead-end aisles at the northeast edges of both garage levels with a 
minimum of 3 feet between the edge of the parking space and the wall. 
Based on the City’s standard details, to provide sufficient area near the end of dead-end aisles for 
vehicles to turn around, there should be a minimum of 3 feet between the edge of the parking space 
and the wall. Thus, the project provides adequate turnaround space at the dead-end aisles per City 
requirements. 
Passenger Loading 
A 25-foot loading zone along the project’s State Street frontage is indicated in the site plan, which could 
be used for passenger loading. The lobby is accessible from this area by a nearby door along State 
Street, and by the main entrance which is connected to the loading zone with a sidewalk. 
Truck Access and Circulation 
The project site plan was reviewed for truck access including delivery and moving trucks, garbage 
trucks, and emergency vehicles, as described below. 
Large trucks and vehicles are not expected to enter the parking garage levels. 
General Loading Operations 
The City of San Mateo requires multi-family residential projects of 50 or more units to provide one 
loading space that is a minimum of 10 feet wide and 25 feet long per City code section 27.64.390.  
The proposed project contains 181 dwelling units and would thus be required to provide one off-street 
loading space that is a minimum of 10 feet wide and 25 feet long. This requirement may be modified by 
the provision of adequate on-street parking along the project frontage that is at least 50 feet from any 
intersections, has convenient access to building entrances, and is wide enough to accommodate 
loading vehicles without impeding the sidewalk or local traffic operation or otherwise be detrimental to 
public safety, as approved by the Zoning Administrator.  
A freight/trash loading space is designated along the project’s frontage on State Street per the site plan. 
The space is 25 feet in length and 8 feet in width and begins approximately 47 feet west of the 
intersection of San Mateo Drive and State Street. The lane width of the loading zone is narrower than 
City’s requirements, however, Public Works has accepted the width of the loading zone to avoid 
encroaching into travel lane. The placement of the loading zone is also less than 50 feet from the 
intersection. The proposed placement has also been accepted by Public Works. 
Garbage Collection Operations

--- page 193 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  2 9  
The site plan indicates a trash room on the north side building on the ground floor. Trash bins would be 
wheeled from the trash room to the loading zone on State Street.  
Emergency Vehicle Access 
Per the 2022 California Fire Code Section D106, multi-family residential projects having more than 100 
dwelling units should have two separate and approved fire apparatus access roads. Where buildings or 
portions of buildings have floors used for human occupancy located more than 30 feet above the 
access road, the minimum unobstructed width is 26 feet for aerial fire apparatus access. At least one of 
the required access roads meeting this requirement should be located within a minimum of 15 feet and 
maximum of 30 feet from the building and parallel to one entire side of the building. All surrounding 
roads provide adequate width and distance for fire apparatus access. 
The project site fronts San Mateo Drive, State Street, and Villa Terrace, which would be used as fire 
apparatus access roads. There is no vehicular access on the west side of the building. 
Pedestrian, Bicycle, and Transit Facility Assessment 
Pedestrian Facilities 
Pedestrian facilities in the study area consist of sidewalks and crosswalks. A complete network of 
sidewalks is present along all of the surrounding streets. Crosswalks with pedestrian signal heads are 
located at all of the signalized intersections in the project vicinity. The project is located between the 
downtown areas of Burlingame and San Mateo, with continuous pedestrian facilities connecting the 
project site to points of interest in each area. 
The project would rebuild the sidewalk along its frontage on State Street, San Mateo Drive, Villa Terra 
removing existing curb cuts on State Street and San Mateo Drive. The new sidewalk would have a 5-foot 
through zone, a 4.5-foot furniture/planting zone, and pedestrian scale lighting, The project would add 
bulb-outs and new curb ramps at the south-west corner of San Mateo Drive and State Street, and at the 
north-west corner of San Mateo Drive and Villa Terrace. The new curb ramps would be built to ADA 
standards. 
Bicycle Facilities 
Bicycle access to the project site is provided via bike lanes on San Mateo Drive. The 2020 Bicycle 
Master Plan identified several bicycle improvements in San Mateo. The plan lists the following facilities 
in the project vicinity as proposed improvements: 
• 
Class IV Separated Bike Lane on Peninsula Avenue between San Mateo Drive and Airport 
Boulevard 
• 
Class II Bike Lane on Peninsula Avenue between Highland Avenue and San Mateo Drive 
• 
Class III Bike Route on Bellevue Boulevard between Delaware Street and Occidental Avenue 
• 
Class III Bike Route on Highland Avenue between Peninsula Avenue and Bellevue Boulevard 
The project provides long-term bicycle storage for the residents in a bike room on the ground floor of 
the project. This room is accessible from a corridor with an entrance on each frontage, including the 
San Mateo Drive frontage, and is thus accessible from the street’s bike lanes. The project would not 
remove any bicycle facilities, nor would it conflict with any adopted plans or policies for new bicycle 
facilities 
Pedestrian and Bicycle Access to Schools  
The project site is located within the San Mateo-Foster City School District and San Mateo Union High 
School District Boundary. San Mateo High School is within 0.5 miles walking distance from the project

--- page 194 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  3 0  
site. It can be accessed via continuous pedestrian facilities along San Mateo Drive and Bellevue 
Avenue, and via Class II bicycle facilities along San Mateo Drive and Poplar Avenue. No public 
elementary or middle schools in the school district containing the project site are located within 0.5 
miles of the project.  
Transit Service 
The project site is serviced by SamTrans routes ECR/397, 46, 53/53P and 292. The nearest bus stop to 
the project site is located at the intersection of San Mateo Drive/California Avenue and Peninsula 
Avenue, approximately 0.3 miles from the project site. The bus stop is served by SamTrans route 292. 
The project site is located within 0.5 miles of the Burlingame Caltrain station. 
It is expected that the project would generate some transit trips to get to the employment areas or to 
other destinations. Based on the 2023 San Mateo County Commuter Survey Results, 15% of 
respondents opted for transit as their mode of transportation, which would result in approximately 11 
new riders during the AM and PM peak hours. The increase in transit ridership could be accommodated 
by the currently available capacity of the bus service as well as the Caltrain service in the area. 
Parking 
Vehicle Parking 
The project proposes to provide 180 vehicle parking spaces, including 5 accessible spaces and 68 
compact stalls.  
California Assembly Bill 2097 (AB 2097) prohibits public agencies from imposing or enforcing any 
minimum vehicular parking requirement on developments located within 0.5 miles of a major transit 
stop as measured with a straight line between any point on any parcels containing the development 
and the nearest edge of any parcels containing the transit stop.1 2 It is important to note that this 
method of measurement is different than the method used to determine the applicability of “close to rail 
transit” trip generation rates, as discussed in Chapter 3.  
A major transit stop is defined as an existing rail or bus rapid transit station, a ferry terminal served by 
either bus or rail service, or a bus stop that is at the intersection of two or more major bus routes with a 
service interval of 20 minutes or less during peak commute periods. The project is located within 0.5 
miles of the Burlingame Caltrain station as measured with a straight line (see Figure 1) and is thus not 
subject to a minimum parking requirement per AB 2097.  
Bicycle Parking 
Per the City’s Zoning Code Section 27.64.262, bicycle parking shall be provided for all new 
development projects.  
 
 
 
 
1 Technical Advisory on the Implementation of AB 2097, Prohibition on Minimum Parking Requirements 
(Statutes of 2022) (California Department of Housing and Community Development, 2025) 
2 AB 2097 Transit Distance Criteria – Letter of Technical Assistance (California Department of Housing 
and Community Development, 2025).

--- page 195 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential LTA 
March 5, 2026 
P a g e  |  3 1  
 
Long-Term Bicycle Parking 
The project would provide long-term bicycle parking in a bike room located on the ground floor. Per City 
Code, the project is required to provide 1 space per studio/one-bedroom unit, 1.25 spaces per two-
bedroom unit, and 1.5 spaces per three-bedroom unit. In total, the project is required to provide 196 
long-term bicycle parking spaces. The project proposes to provide 196 spaces and thus meets the 
requirement. Required and proposed amounts of bicycle parking are shown in Table 8. 
Short-Term Bicycle Parking 
The project would provide short-term bicycle parking along the project frontage on San Mateo Drive. 
Per the City Code, the project is required to provide 0.05 spaces per studio/one-bedroom unit, 0.1 
spaces per two-bedroom unit, and 0.15 spaces per three-bedroom unit. In total, the project is required 
to provide 12 short-term spaces. The project proposes to provide 12 short-term bike parking spaces, 
meeting the City’s requirements.  
Table 8       
Bicycle Parking Requirements 
 
 
Unit Type
 Amount 
# of Spaces 
Required2
# of Spaces 
Proposed
# of Spaces 
Required2
# of Spaces 
Proposed
Studio
9
1.00
per unit
9
0.05
per unit
0
One-bedroom
116
1.00
per unit
116
0.05
per unit
6
Two-bedroom
52
1.25
per unit
65
0.10
per unit
5
Three+ bedroom
4
1.50
per unit
6
0.15
per unit
1
Total
181
196
196
12
12
TOTAL
196
196
12
12
Notes:
2. Per City code, if after calculating the number of required bicycle parking spaces a quotient is obtained containing a fraction of one-half or more, an 
additional space shall be required;if such fraction is less than one-half it may be disregarded.
1. Requirements per City of San Mateo Zoning Code requirements for developments outside of the Downtown Area.
Space 
Requirement1
Space 
Requirement1
Short-Term Bicycle Parking Spaces
Long-Term Bicycle Parking Spaces

--- page 196 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive Residential Development 
Transportation Analysis 
 
Technical Appendices 
 
March 5, 2026

--- page 197 ---
Appendix A  
 
Traffic Counts

--- page 198 ---
www.idaxdata.com
to
to
Two-Hour Count Summaries
Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.
Total
6
4
4
3
8
11
2
3
41
24
6
8
4
15
4
5
9
15
8
Peak Hour
0
3
5
10
18
2
1
1
14
9
30
8
10
Count Total
2
6
9
19
36
6
1
2
0
1
0
2
1
4
0
8:45 AM
0
0
3
3
6
1
3
1
0
1
0
3
8:30 AM
0
1
1
2
4
0
1
1
1
2
4
1
3
4
2
3
8:15 AM
0
1
1
4
6
1
0
0
4
0
4
2
1
2
1
0
8:00 AM
0
1
0
1
2
0
0
0
4
1
5
0
0
0
0
1
7:30 AM
0
2
2
5
9
2
0
1
1
1
4
0
0
3
2
3
0
EB
WB
NB
SB
Total
East
7:45 AM
0
0
2
1
3
1
4
4
-
0%
1%
HV%
-
0%
0%
0%
-
2
1
7:15 AM
1
1
0
1
3
2
0
0
0
2
2
0
3
West
North
South
7:00 AM
1
0
0
1
5
389
29
0
22
347
14
0
33
6
25
0
0
Interval      
Start
Heavy Vehicle Totals
Bicycles
Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
EB
WB
NB
SB
Total
3%
-
5%
3%
0%
2%
3%
0%
8%
Peak 
Hour
All
0
4
3
45
0
7
636
50
0
0
1
9
0
18
0
0
2
0
0
4
1
8
885
0
HV
0
0
0
0
0
Count Total
0
9
5
26
0
77
17
26
591
11
1,500
0
241
885
111
9
0
6
91
1
0
8
2
7
0
1
10
89
1
217
876
8:45 AM
0
3
1
1
6
0
0
90
7
0
219
825
8:30 AM
0
0
0
6
0
6
2
97
9
0
3
84
2
0
10
2
6
0
1
3
83
4
208
728
8:15 AM
0
0
0
5
6
0
3
91
4
0
232
615
8:00 AM
0
1
2
2
0
9
0
94
5
0
2
102
2
0
12
4
7
0
0
1
67
0
166
0
7:45 AM
0
0
1
3
8
0
1
61
7
0
122
0
7:30 AM
0
1
0
4
0
14
2
52
6
0
1
36
1
0
12
4
4
0
1
0
39
0
95
0
7:15 AM
0
2
1
2
1
0
0
40
3
0
7:00 AM
0
2
0
3
0
6
1
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
Rolling 
One Hour
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
UT
LT
TH
RT
Interval      
Start
Villa Terrace
Villa Terrace
San Mateo Dr. 
San Mateo Dr. 
15-min   
Total
UT
LT
TH
RT
Date: 10/30/2025
Peak Hour
Count Period: 
7:00 AM
9:00 AM
SB
2.7%
0.94
TOTAL
2.0%
0.92
TH
RT
WB
4.7%
0.89
NB
1.2%
0.87
Peak Hour: 
8:00 AM
9:00 AM
HV %:
PHF
EB
0.0%
0.88
0
1
1
0
4
0
0
8
0
0
1
0
9
6
5
4
N
San Mateo Dr. 
Villa Terrace
Villa Terrace
San Mateo Dr. 
Villa Terrace
San Mateo Dr. 
885
TEV:
0.92
PHF:
8
347
22
377
418
0
25
6
33
64
54
0
29
389
5
423
394
0
14
3
4
21
19
0
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 199 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Two-Hour Count Summaries - Heavy Vehicles
Two-Hour Count Summaries - Bikes
Note: U-Turn volumes for bikes are included in Left-Turn, if any.
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
0
4
1
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
2
0
0
TH
LT
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
TH
LT
15
0
0
4
0
0
8
30
0
0
0
14
0
1
0
0
1
Peak Hour
1
8
Count Total
0
15
4
0
0
2
0
1
0
0
3
16
8:45 AM
0
1
0
0
17
8:30 AM
4
0
0
2
0
0
1
4
17
8:15 AM
0
4
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
15
8:00 AM
5
0
0
4
4
0
7:45 AM
0
1
0
0
0
7:30 AM
4
0
0
1
0
0
1
7:15 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
7:00 AM
RT
18
0
Interval      
Start
Villa Terrace
Villa Terrace
San Mateo Dr. 
San Mateo Dr. 
15-min   
Total
Rolling 
One Hour
4
1
0
1
9
0
0
1
0
2
0
0
RT
TH
LT
RT
TH
LT
RT
1
18
0
36
0
Peak Hour
0
0
0
0
4
0
0
7
2
0
Count Total
0
0
0
2
0
2
0
6
18
2
1
0
1
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
4
15
8:45 AM
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
6
20
8:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
4
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
2
17
8:15 AM
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
3
18
8:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
0
9
0
7:45 AM
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
1
0
3
0
7:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
2
0
3
0
7:15 AM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
TH
RT
7:00 AM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
Northbound
Southbound
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
Interval      
Start
Villa Terrace
Villa Terrace
San Mateo Dr. 
San Mateo Dr. 
15-min   
Total
Rolling 
One Hour
Eastbound
Westbound
Southbound
Northbound
Westbound
Eastbound
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 200 ---
www.idaxdata.com
to
to
Two-Hour Count Summaries
Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.
Total
4
3
7
8
11
13
7
6
59
22
1
5
3
9
6
9
6
20
6
Peak Hour
0
1
3
7
11
0
1
1
9
13
23
18
15
Count Total
1
1
7
7
16
0
0
4
0
0
0
3
2
5
2
5:45 PM
1
0
1
0
2
3
4
3
1
1
2
2
5:30 PM
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
4
2
5
4
1
5:15 PM
0
0
2
0
2
0
0
0
0
5
5
3
3
2
2
0
5:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
2
4
3
2
1
0
4:30 PM
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
2
2
1
3
0
2
1
1
2
0
EB
WB
NB
SB
Total
East
4:45 PM
0
0
1
2
3
0
2
1
0%
8%
0%
HV%
-
0%
0%
0%
-
1
0
4:15 PM
0
1
1
3
5
0
0
1
1
0
2
1
2
West
North
South
4:00 PM
0
0
1
0
12
429
30
0
22
524
15
0
14
2
22
1
0
Interval      
Start
Heavy Vehicle Totals
Bicycles
Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
EB
WB
NB
SB
Total
0%
-
5%
1%
20%
1%
0%
0%
5%
Peak 
Hour
All
0
2
1
38
1
24
869
64
0
0
1
4
2
11
0
0
1
0
1
2
0
10
1,084
0
HV
0
0
0
0
0
Count Total
0
9
1
36
0
33
6
44
965
22
2,112
0
238
1,028
102
11
0
6
102
1
0
2
2
4
0
3
5
109
3
245
1,051
5:45 PM
0
2
0
3
4
0
2
98
3
0
288
1,083
5:30 PM
0
3
0
9
0
8
1
126
12
0
10
115
5
0
7
0
4
0
4
1
115
3
257
1,038
5:15 PM
0
2
0
3
4
0
3
114
8
0
261
1,084
5:00 PM
0
0
0
6
0
2
1
99
11
0
3
133
2
0
5
0
3
0
3
3
122
2
277
0
4:45 PM
0
1
0
1
6
0
2
128
9
0
243
0
4:30 PM
0
0
0
4
0
1
0
90
2
0
5
123
4
0
5
2
4
0
4
11
146
2
303
0
4:15 PM
0
0
0
4
9
1
3
112
8
0
4:00 PM
0
1
1
6
0
3
0
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
Rolling 
One Hour
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
UT
LT
TH
RT
Interval      
Start
Villa Terrace
Villa Terrace
San Mateo Dr. 
San Mateo Dr. 
15-min   
Total
UT
LT
TH
RT
Date: 10/30/2025
Peak Hour
Count Period: 
4:00 PM
6:00 PM
SB
1.3%
0.87
TOTAL
1.0%
0.89
TH
RT
WB
2.6%
0.79
NB
0.6%
0.85
Peak Hour: 
4:00 PM
5:00 PM
HV %:
PHF
EB
0.0%
0.56
0
0
0
0
3
0
0
5
0
0
0
1
6
1
9
6
N
San Mateo Dr. 
Villa Terrace
Villa Terrace
San Mateo Dr. 
Villa Terrace
San Mateo Dr. 
1,084
TEV:
0.89
PHF:
10
524
22
556
453
0
22
2
14
38
53
0
30
429
12
472
554
1
15
1
2
18
24
0
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 201 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Two-Hour Count Summaries - Heavy Vehicles
Two-Hour Count Summaries - Bikes
Note: U-Turn volumes for bikes are included in Left-Turn, if any.
0
0
0
2
0
0
5
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
TH
LT
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
TH
LT
9
0
0
3
0
0
5
23
0
0
1
7
1
3
0
1
1
Peak Hour
1
12
Count Total
0
14
5
1
1
1
0
0
0
0
4
11
5:45 PM
0
1
0
0
9
5:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
12
5:15 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
9
5:00 PM
2
0
0
0
2
0
4:45 PM
0
2
0
0
0
4:30 PM
3
0
0
1
0
0
2
4:15 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
4:00 PM
RT
11
0
Interval      
Start
Villa Terrace
Villa Terrace
San Mateo Dr. 
San Mateo Dr. 
15-min   
Total
Rolling 
One Hour
2
0
0
1
4
2
0
0
0
1
0
1
RT
TH
LT
RT
TH
LT
RT
1
4
2
16
0
Peak Hour
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
6
0
0
Count Total
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
2
5
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
6
5:45 PM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
2
6
5:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
9
5:15 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
11
5:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
4:45 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
0
4:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
1
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
1
2
0
4:15 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
TH
RT
4:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
Northbound
Southbound
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
Interval      
Start
Villa Terrace
Villa Terrace
San Mateo Dr. 
San Mateo Dr. 
15-min   
Total
Rolling 
One Hour
Eastbound
Westbound
Southbound
Northbound
Westbound
Eastbound
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 202 ---
www.idaxdata.com
to
to
Two-Hour Count Summaries
Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.
Total
0
2
4
3
0
5
3
5
22
13
1
3
0
4
12
0
0
0
3
Peak Hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
5
2
8
18
1
Count Total
0
0
0
2
2
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
1
4
8:45 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
3
0
0
0
0
8:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
1
0
1
5
0
0
0
0
8:15 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
8:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
3
1
0
2
0
7:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
2
0
0
1
1
0
EB
WB
NB
SB
Total
East
7:45 AM
0
0
0
0
0
2
3
1
-
-
0%
HV%
-
-
-
-
-
0
0
7:15 AM
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
West
North
South
7:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
23
8
2
4
28
0
0
13
0
3
0
0
Interval      
Start
Heavy Vehicle Totals
Bicycles
Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
EB
WB
NB
SB
Total
0%
0%
0%
0%
-
0%
0%
-
0%
Peak 
Hour
All
0
0
0
5
0
0
31
10
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
81
0
HV
0
0
0
0
0
Count Total
0
0
0
0
1
21
0
9
46
0
125
0
12
81
4
1
1
1
2
0
0
2
0
1
0
0
1
8
0
21
79
8:45 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
5
1
22
71
8:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
4
0
8
2
0
0
8
0
0
4
0
0
0
0
2
10
0
26
63
8:15 AM
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
9
0
0
10
44
8:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
3
0
1
1
0
0
4
0
0
4
0
0
0
0
1
9
0
13
0
7:45 AM
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
2
0
0
14
0
7:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
1
0
2
2
0
1
3
0
1
0
0
2
3
0
7
0
7:15 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
7:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
Rolling 
One Hour
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
UT
LT
TH
RT
Interval      
Start
N/A
Villa Terrace
Highland Ave
Highland Ave
15-min   
Total
UT
LT
TH
RT
SB
0.0%
0.71
TOTAL
0.0%
0.78
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
WB
0.0%
0.80
NB
0.0%
0.78
Peak Hour: 
8:00 AM
9:00 AM
HV %:
PHF
EB
-
-
Date: 10/30/2025
Peak Hour
Count Period: 
7:00 AM
9:00 AM
N
Highland Ave
Villa Terrace
Villa Terrace
Highland Ave
Highland Ave
81
TEV:
0.78
PHF:
28
4
34
28
2
3
13
16
12
0
8
23
31
41
0
0
0
2
1
0
1
0
1
0
12
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 203 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Two-Hour Count Summaries - Heavy Vehicles
Two-Hour Count Summaries - Bikes
Note: U-Turn volumes for bikes are included in Left-Turn, if any.
0
4
0
0
0
1
2
0
0
Peak Hour
0
0
0
1
0
2
2
0
0
8
0
Count Total
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
3
4
0
1
0
0
0
1
2
4
8:45 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
5
8:30 AM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
8:15 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
4
8:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
3
0
7:45 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
7:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7:15 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
TH
RT
LT
TH
RT
7:00 AM
0
0
0
0
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
LT
TH
RT
LT
TH
RT
LT
0
0
Interval      
Start
N/A
Villa Terrace
Highland Ave
Highland Ave
15-min   
Total
Rolling 
One Hour
Eastbound
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
2
0
Peak Hour
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Count Total
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
8:45 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
8:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
8:15 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
8:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7:45 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
7:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
7:15 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
TH
RT
7:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
Northbound
Southbound
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
Interval      
Start
N/A
Villa Terrace
Highland Ave
Highland Ave
15-min   
Total
Rolling 
One Hour
Eastbound
Westbound
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 204 ---
www.idaxdata.com
to
to
Two-Hour Count Summaries
Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.
Total
7
7
9
8
9
3
4
16
63
32
8
4
3
8
22
2
0
0
9
Peak Hr
0
1
1
1
3
0
1
1
5
4
10
51
3
Count Total
0
3
1
1
5
0
0
0
5
0
0
0
0
0
11
5:45 PM
0
0
1
1
2
2
5
1
2
0
1
2
5:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
2
1
1
2
1
0
0
0
0
5:15 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
9
0
1
0
0
5:00 PM
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
7
0
0
0
0
4:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
7
0
0
0
1
0
EB
WB
NB
SB
Total
East
4:45 PM
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
9
-
-
0%
HV%
-
-
-
-
0%
0
1
4:15 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
6
0
West
North
South
4:00 PM
0
1
0
0
0
19
12
0
7
19
0
1
14
0
12
0
0
Interval      
Start
Heavy Vehicle Totals
Bicycles
Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
EB
WB
NB
SB
Total
8%
-
0%
5%
-
4%
0%
-
8%
Peak 
Hour
All
0
0
0
23
2
0
39
18
0
0
0
1
0
3
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
84
0
HV
0
0
0
0
0
Count Total
0
0
0
0
2
23
0
17
41
0
165
0
23
84
4
5
0
1
6
0
0
4
0
3
0
0
4
3
0
19
77
5:45 PM
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
5
3
0
17
76
5:30 PM
0
0
0
0
1
2
0
4
0
0
1
4
0
0
3
0
5
0
0
1
6
0
25
82
5:15 PM
0
0
0
0
3
0
0
6
4
0
16
81
5:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
5
0
5
1
0
1
5
0
0
1
0
3
0
0
3
6
0
18
0
4:45 PM
0
0
0
0
2
2
0
3
1
0
23
0
4:30 PM
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
6
1
0
4
5
0
0
4
0
3
0
0
2
6
0
24
0
4:15 PM
0
0
0
0
3
0
0
6
3
0
4:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
4
0
Rolling 
One Hour
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
UT
LT
TH
RT
Interval      
Start
N/A
Villa Terrace
Highland Ave
Highland Ave
15-min   
Total
UT
LT
TH
RT
SB
3.8%
0.93
TOTAL
3.6%
0.84
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
WB
3.7%
0.84
NB
3.2%
0.78
Peak Hour: 
5:00 PM
6:00 PM
HV %:
PHF
EB
-
-
Date: 10/30/2025
Peak Hour
Count Period: 
4:00 PM
6:00 PM
N
Highland Ave
Villa Terrace
Villa Terrace
Highland Ave
Highland Ave
84
TEV:
0.84
PHF:
19
7
26
31
0
12
14
27
20
1
12
19
31
33
0
2
1
0
4
1
0
0
8
2
22
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 205 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Two-Hour Count Summaries - Heavy Vehicles
Two-Hour Count Summaries - Bikes
Note: U-Turn volumes for bikes are included in Left-Turn, if any.
0
8
0
1
0
4
0
1
2
Peak Hour
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
3
0
10
0
Count Total
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
5
8
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
8
5:45 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
1
1
0
0
2
3
5:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
1
5:15 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
2
2
5:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4:45 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
4:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
4:15 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
TH
RT
LT
TH
RT
4:00 PM
0
0
0
0
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
LT
TH
RT
LT
TH
RT
LT
3
0
Interval      
Start
N/A
Villa Terrace
Highland Ave
Highland Ave
15-min   
Total
Rolling 
One Hour
Eastbound
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
5
0
Peak Hour
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
1
0
Count Total
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
2
3
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
5:45 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
5:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
2
5:15 PM
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
2
5:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4:45 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
4:15 PM
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
TH
RT
4:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
Northbound
Southbound
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
Interval      
Start
N/A
Villa Terrace
Highland Ave
Highland Ave
15-min   
Total
Rolling 
One Hour
Eastbound
Westbound
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 206 ---
Appendix B  
 
Volume Sheets

--- page 207 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive
San Mateo, CA
Intersection Number:
1
Traffix Node Number:
1
Intersection Name:
San Mateo Drive and Villa Terrace
Peak Hour:
AM
Count Date:
Movements
Southbound Approach
Westbound Approach
Northbound Approach
Eastbound Approach
Scenario
RT
TH
LT
RT
TH
LT
RT
TH
LT
RT
TH
LT
Total
Existing Conditions
8
347
22
25
6
33
29
389
5
14
3
4
885
Proposed Project Trips
7
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7
22
0
22
58
Opening Year + Project Conditions
15
347
22
25
6
33
29
389
12
36
3
26
943
Cumlative No Project Conditions
9
392
25
28
7
37
33
440
6
16
3
5
1000
Cumulative + Project Conditions
16
392
25
28
7
37
33
440
13
38
3
27
1058
Intersection Number:
2
Traffix Node Number:
3
Intersection Name:
Highland Avenue and Villa Terrace
Peak Hour:
AM
Count Date:
Movements
Southbound Approach
Westbound Approach
Northbound Approach
Eastbound Approach
Scenario
RT
TH
LT
RT
TH
LT
RT
TH
LT
RT
TH
LT
Total
Existing Conditions
0
28
6
3
0
13
8
23
0
0
0
0
81
Proposed Project Trips
0
0
1
4
0
4
1
0
0
0
0
0
10
Opening Year + Project Conditions
0
28
7
7
0
17
9
23
0
0
0
0
91
Cumlative No Project Conditions
0
32
7
3
0
15
9
26
0
0
0
0
92
Cumulative + Project Conditions
0
32
8
7
0
19
10
26
0
0
0
0
102
Intersection Number:
3
Traffix Node Number:
9
Intersection Name:
Proj Dwy and Villa Terrace
Peak Hour:
AM
Count Date:
Movements
Southbound Approach
Westbound Approach
Northbound Approach
Eastbound Approach
Scenario
RT
TH
LT
RT
TH
LT
RT
TH
LT
RT
TH
LT
Total
Existing Conditions
0
0
0
0
19
0
0
0
0
0
14
0
33
Proposed Project Trips
8
0
45
14
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
69
Opening Year + Project Conditions
8
0
45
14
19
0
0
0
0
0
14
2
102
Cumlative No Project Conditions
0
0
0
0
21
0
0
0
0
0
16
0
37
Cumulative + Project Conditions
8
0
45
14
21
0
0
0
0
0
16
2
106
10/30/25
10/30/25
N/A
Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
2/4/2026
Sum_AM
715 N San Mateo Volumes

--- page 208 ---
715 North San Mateo Drive
San Mateo, CA
Intersection Number:
1
Traffix Node Number:
1
Intersection Name:
San Mateo Drive and Villa Terrace
Peak Hour:
PM
Count Date:
Movements
Southbound Approach
Westbound Approach
Northbound Approach
Eastbound Approach
Scenario
RT
TH
LT
RT
TH
LT
RT
TH
LT
RT
TH
LT
Total
Existing Conditions
10
524
22
22
2
14
30
429
13
15
1
2
1084
Proposed Project Trips
18
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
18
10
0
10
56
Opening Year + Project Conditions
28
524
22
22
2
14
30
429
31
25
1
12
1140
Cumlative No Project Conditions
11
576
24
24
2
15
33
472
14
17
1
2
1192
Cumulative + Project Conditions
29
576
24
24
2
15
33
472
32
27
1
12
1248
Intersection Number:
2
Traffix Node Number:
3
Intersection Name:
Highland Avenue and Villa Terrace
Peak Hour:
PM
Count Date:
Movements
Southbound Approach
Westbound Approach
Northbound Approach
Eastbound Approach
Scenario
RT
TH
LT
RT
TH
LT
RT
TH
LT
RT
TH
LT
Total
Existing Conditions
0
19
7
12
0
15
12
19
0
0
0
0
84
Proposed Project Trips
0
0
3
2
0
2
3
0
0
0
0
0
10
Opening Year + Project Conditions
0
19
10
14
0
17
15
19
0
0
0
0
94
Cumlative No Project Conditions
0
21
8
13
0
17
13
21
0
0
0
0
92
Cumulative + Project Conditions
0
21
11
15
0
19
16
21
0
0
0
0
102
Intersection Number:
3
Traffix Node Number:
9
Intersection Name:
Proj Dwy and Villa Terrace
Peak Hour:
PM
Count Date:
Movements
Southbound Approach
Westbound Approach
Northbound Approach
Eastbound Approach
Scenario
RT
TH
LT
RT
TH
LT
RT
TH
LT
RT
TH
LT
Total
Existing Conditions
0
0
0
0
25
0
0
0
0
0
19
0
44
Proposed Project Trips
4
0
21
37
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7
69
Opening Year + Project Conditions
4
0
21
37
25
0
0
0
0
0
19
7
113
Cumlative No Project Conditions
0
0
0
0
28
0
0
0
0
0
21
0
48
Cumulative + Project Conditions
4
0
21
37
28
0
0
0
0
0
21
7
117
N/A
10/30/25
10/30/25
Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
2/4/2026
Sum_PM
715 N San Mateo Volumes

--- page 209 ---
Appendix C  
 
Intersection Level of Service Calculations

--- page 210 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
1: San Mateo Dr & Villa Ter
01/29/2026
Existing AM  8:00 am 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1.9
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
4
3
14
33
6
25
5
389
29
22
347
8
Future Vol, veh/h
4
3
14
33
6
25
5
389
29
22
347
8
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
4
3
15
36
7
27
5
423
32
24
377
9
Major/Minor
Minor2
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
866
895
382
876
883
439
386
0
0
454
0
0
          Stage 1
429
429
-
449
449
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
437
465
-
427
434
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
6.52
6.22
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518 4.018 3.318 2.218
-
- 2.218
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
273
280
666
269
285
618
1173
-
-
1106
-
-
          Stage 1
604
584
-
589
572
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
598
563
-
606
581
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
247
271
666
251
275
618
1173
-
-
1106
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
247
271
-
251
275
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
587
568
-
585
568
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
562
559
-
572
565
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
13.74
18.76
0.1
0.49
HCM LOS
B
C
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBL
NBT
NBR EBLn1WBLn1
SBL
SBT
SBR
Capacity (veh/h)
21
-
-
435
331
105
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.005
-
- 0.053
0.21 0.022
-
-
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
8.1
0
-
13.7
18.8
8.3
0
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
A
-
B
C
A
A
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
-
0.2
0.8
0.1
-
-

--- page 211 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
3: Highland Ave & Villa Ter
01/29/2026
Existing AM  8:00 am 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 2
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.3
Movement
WBL WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
13
3
23
8
6
28
Future Vol, veh/h
13
3
23
8
6
28
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
0
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
78
78
78
78
78
78
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
17
4
29
10
8
36
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
86
35
0
0
40
0
          Stage 1
35
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
51
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.42
6.22
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
915
1038
-
-
1570
-
          Stage 1
988
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
971
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
911
1038
-
-
1570
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
911
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
988
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
966
-
-
-
-
-
Approach
WB
NB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
8.95
0
1.29
HCM LOS
A
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBT
NBRWBLn1
SBL
SBT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
932
318
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.022 0.005
-
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
-
-
8.9
7.3
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
A
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.1
0
-

--- page 212 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
9: Villa Ter & Project Dwy
01/29/2026
Existing AM  8:00 am 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 3
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0
Movement
EBL
EBT
WBT WBR
SBL
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
0
14
19
0
0
0
Future Vol, veh/h
0
14
19
0
0
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
0
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
0
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
0
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
0
15
21
0
0
0
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
21
0
-
0
36
21
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
21
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
15
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
-
6.42
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
-
- 3.518 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1595
-
-
-
977
1057
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
1002
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
1008
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1595
-
-
-
977
1057
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
977
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
1002
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
1008
-
Approach
EB
WB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
0
0
0
HCM LOS
A
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
EBL
EBT
WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)
1595
-
-
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
-
-
-
-
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
0
-
-
-
0
HCM Lane LOS
A
-
-
-
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
-
-
-

--- page 213 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
1: San Mateo Dr & Villa Ter
01/29/2026
Existing PM  1:19 pm 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1.3
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
2
1
15
14
2
22
13
429
30
22
524
10
Future Vol, veh/h
2
1
15
14
2
22
13
429
30
22
524
10
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
2
1
17
16
2
25
15
482
34
25
589
11
Major/Minor
Minor2
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
1156
1189
594
1167
1178
499
600
0
0
516
0
0
          Stage 1
644
644
-
528
528
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
512
545
-
639
649
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
6.52
6.22
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518 4.018 3.318 2.218
-
- 2.218
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
174
188
505
171
191
572
977
-
-
1050
-
-
          Stage 1
461
468
-
534
528
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
544
519
-
464
465
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
155
177
505
155
180
572
977
-
-
1050
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
155
177
-
155
180
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
445
451
-
523
517
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
508
508
-
432
449
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
15.21
20.72
0.24
0.34
HCM LOS
C
C
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBL
NBT
NBR EBLn1WBLn1
SBL
SBT
SBR
Capacity (veh/h)
49
-
-
373
271
71
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.015
-
- 0.054 0.157 0.024
-
-
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
8.7
0
-
15.2
20.7
8.5
0
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
A
-
C
C
A
A
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
-
0.2
0.5
0.1
-
-

--- page 214 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
3: Highland Ave & Villa Ter
01/29/2026
Existing PM  1:19 pm 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 2
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
3.4
Movement
WBL WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
15
12
19
12
7
19
Future Vol, veh/h
15
12
19
12
7
19
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
0
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
84
84
84
84
84
84
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
18
14
23
14
8
23
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
69
30
0
0
37
0
          Stage 1
30
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
39
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.42
6.22
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
936
1045
-
-
1574
-
          Stage 1
993
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
983
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
931
1045
-
-
1574
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
931
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
993
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
978
-
-
-
-
-
Approach
WB
NB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
8.81
0
1.97
HCM LOS
A
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBT
NBRWBLn1
SBL
SBT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
978
485
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.033 0.005
-
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
-
-
8.8
7.3
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
A
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.1
0
-

--- page 215 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
9: Villa Ter & Project Dwy
01/29/2026
Existing PM  1:19 pm 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 3
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0
Movement
EBL
EBT
WBT WBR
SBL
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
0
19
25
0
0
0
Future Vol, veh/h
0
19
25
0
0
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
0
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
0
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
0
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
0
21
27
0
0
0
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
27
0
-
0
48
27
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
27
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
21
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
-
6.42
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
-
- 3.518 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1587
-
-
-
962
1048
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
995
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
1002
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1587
-
-
-
962
1048
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
962
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
995
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
1002
-
Approach
EB
WB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
0
0
0
HCM LOS
A
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
EBL
EBT
WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)
1587
-
-
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
-
-
-
-
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
0
-
-
-
0
HCM Lane LOS
A
-
-
-
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
-
-
-

--- page 216 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
1: San Mateo Dr & Villa Ter
01/29/2026
Opening Year Plus Project AM  1:19 pm 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.8
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
26
3
36
33
6
25
12
389
29
22
347
15
Future Vol, veh/h
26
3
36
33
6
25
12
389
29
22
347
15
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
28
3
39
36
7
27
13
423
32
24
377
16
Major/Minor
Minor2
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
885
914
385
891
906
439
393
0
0
454
0
0
          Stage 1
433
433
-
465
465
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
452
480
-
427
441
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
6.52
6.22
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518 4.018 3.318 2.218
-
- 2.218
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
265
273
662
263
276
618
1165
-
-
1106
-
-
          Stage 1
601
582
-
578
563
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
587
554
-
606
577
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
237
262
662
234
264
618
1165
-
-
1106
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
237
262
-
234
264
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
584
565
-
569
555
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
546
546
-
551
561
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
16.99
19.72
0.23
0.48
HCM LOS
C
C
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBL
NBT
NBR EBLn1WBLn1
SBL
SBT
SBR
Capacity (veh/h)
50
-
-
371
314
102
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.011
-
- 0.191 0.222 0.022
-
-
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
8.1
0
-
17
19.7
8.3
0
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
A
-
C
C
A
A
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
-
0.7
0.8
0.1
-
-

--- page 217 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
3: Highland Ave & Villa Ter
01/29/2026
Opening Year Plus Project AM  1:19 pm 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 2
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.9
Movement
WBL WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
17
7
23
9
7
28
Future Vol, veh/h
17
7
23
9
7
28
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
0
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
78
78
78
78
78
78
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
22
9
29
12
9
36
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
89
35
0
0
41
0
          Stage 1
35
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
54
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.42
6.22
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
912
1038
-
-
1568
-
          Stage 1
987
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
969
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
906
1038
-
-
1568
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
906
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
987
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
963
-
-
-
-
-
Approach
WB
NB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
8.96
0
1.46
HCM LOS
A
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBT
NBRWBLn1
SBL
SBT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
941
360
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.033 0.006
-
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
-
-
9
7.3
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
A
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.1
0
-

--- page 218 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
9: Villa Ter & Project Dwy
01/29/2026
Opening Year Plus Project AM  1:19 pm 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 3
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
4.8
Movement
EBL
EBT
WBT WBR
SBL
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
2
14
19
14
45
8
Future Vol, veh/h
2
14
19
14
45
8
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
0
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
0
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
0
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
2
15
21
15
49
9
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
36
0
-
0
48
28
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
28
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
20
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
-
6.42
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
-
- 3.518 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1575
-
-
-
962
1047
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
994
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
1003
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1575
-
-
-
960
1047
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
960
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
993
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
1003
-
Approach
EB
WB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
0.91
0
8.93
HCM LOS
A
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
EBL
EBT
WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)
225
-
-
-
973
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.001
-
-
- 0.059
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
7.3
0
-
-
8.9
HCM Lane LOS
A
A
-
-
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
-
-
0.2

--- page 219 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
1: San Mateo Dr & Villa Ter
01/29/2026
Opening Year Plus Project PM  1:19 pm 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1.9
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
12
1
25
14
2
22
31
429
30
22
524
28
Future Vol, veh/h
12
1
25
14
2
22
31
429
30
22
524
28
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
13
1
28
16
2
25
35
482
34
25
589
31
Major/Minor
Minor2
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
1207
1239
604
1207
1238
499
620
0
0
516
0
0
          Stage 1
654
654
-
569
569
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
553
585
-
639
670
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
6.52
6.22
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518 4.018 3.318 2.218
-
- 2.218
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
160
175
498
160
176
572
960
-
-
1050
-
-
          Stage 1
456
463
-
507
506
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
517
497
-
464
456
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
138
160
498
137
161
572
960
-
-
1050
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
138
160
-
137
161
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
439
446
-
481
480
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
468
472
-
421
439
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
21.14
22.47
0.56
0.33
HCM LOS
C
C
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBL
NBT
NBR EBLn1WBLn1
SBL
SBT
SBR
Capacity (veh/h)
112
-
-
265
248
68
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.036
-
- 0.161 0.172 0.024
-
-
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
8.9
0
-
21.1
22.5
8.5
0
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
A
-
C
C
A
A
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.1
-
-
0.6
0.6
0.1
-
-

--- page 220 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
3: Highland Ave & Villa Ter
01/29/2026
Opening Year Plus Project PM  1:19 pm 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 2
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
3.7
Movement
WBL WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
17
14
19
15
10
19
Future Vol, veh/h
17
14
19
15
10
19
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
0
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
84
84
84
84
84
84
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
20
17
23
18
12
23
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
78
32
0
0
40
0
          Stage 1
32
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
46
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.42
6.22
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
925
1042
-
-
1569
-
          Stage 1
991
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
976
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
918
1042
-
-
1569
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
918
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
991
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
969
-
-
-
-
-
Approach
WB
NB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
8.86
0
2.52
HCM LOS
A
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBT
NBRWBLn1
SBL
SBT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
970
621
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.038 0.008
-
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
-
-
8.9
7.3
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
A
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.1
0
-

--- page 221 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
9: Villa Ter & Project Dwy
01/29/2026
Opening Year Plus Project PM  1:19 pm 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 3
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.4
Movement
EBL
EBT
WBT WBR
SBL
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
7
19
25
37
21
4
Future Vol, veh/h
7
19
25
37
21
4
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
0
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
0
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
0
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
8
21
27
40
23
4
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
67
0
-
0
83
47
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
47
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
36
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
-
6.42
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
-
- 3.518 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1534
-
-
-
919
1022
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
975
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
987
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1534
-
-
-
914
1022
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
914
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
970
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
987
-
Approach
EB
WB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
1.98
0
8.99
HCM LOS
A
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
EBL
EBT
WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)
485
-
-
-
930
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.005
-
-
- 0.029
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
7.4
0
-
-
9
HCM Lane LOS
A
A
-
-
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
-
-
0.1

--- page 222 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
1: San Mateo Dr & Villa Ter
01/29/2026
Cumulative AM  1:19 pm 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.3
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
5
3
16
37
7
28
6
440
33
25
392
9
Future Vol, veh/h
5
3
16
37
7
28
6
440
33
25
392
9
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
5
3
17
40
8
30
7
478
36
27
426
10
Major/Minor
Minor2
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
980
1013
431
991
999
496
436
0
0
514
0
0
          Stage 1
485
485
-
509
509
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
495
527
-
482
490
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
6.52
6.22
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518 4.018 3.318 2.218
-
- 2.218
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
229
239
624
225
243
574
1124
-
-
1051
-
-
          Stage 1
563
551
-
547
538
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
556
528
-
565
549
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
201
229
624
207
233
574
1124
-
-
1051
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
201
229
-
207
233
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
544
533
-
542
534
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
515
524
-
528
530
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
15.25
22.85
0.1
0.5
HCM LOS
C
C
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBL
NBT
NBR EBLn1WBLn1
SBL
SBT
SBR
Capacity (veh/h)
22
-
-
377
279
105
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.006
-
- 0.069
0.28 0.026
-
-
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
8.2
0
-
15.2
22.8
8.5
0
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
A
-
C
C
A
A
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
-
0.2
1.1
0.1
-
-

--- page 223 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
3: Highland Ave & Villa Ter
01/29/2026
Cumulative AM  1:19 pm 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 2
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.3
Movement
WBL WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
15
3
26
9
7
32
Future Vol, veh/h
15
3
26
9
7
32
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
0
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
78
78
78
78
78
78
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
19
4
33
12
9
41
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
98
39
0
0
45
0
          Stage 1
39
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
59
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.42
6.22
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
901
1032
-
-
1563
-
          Stage 1
983
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
964
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
896
1032
-
-
1563
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
896
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
983
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
958
-
-
-
-
-
Approach
WB
NB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
9.03
0
1.31
HCM LOS
A
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBT
NBRWBLn1
SBL
SBT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
916
323
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.025 0.006
-
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
-
-
9
7.3
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
A
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.1
0
-

--- page 224 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
9: Villa Ter & Project Dwy
01/29/2026
Cumulative AM  1:19 pm 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 3
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0
Movement
EBL
EBT
WBT WBR
SBL
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
0
16
21
0
0
0
Future Vol, veh/h
0
16
21
0
0
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
0
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
0
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
0
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
0
17
23
0
0
0
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
23
0
-
0
40
23
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
23
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
17
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
-
6.42
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
-
- 3.518 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1592
-
-
-
971
1054
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
1000
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
1005
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1592
-
-
-
971
1054
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
971
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
1000
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
1005
-
Approach
EB
WB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
0
0
0
HCM LOS
A
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
EBL
EBT
WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)
1592
-
-
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
-
-
-
-
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
0
-
-
-
0
HCM Lane LOS
A
-
-
-
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
-
-
-

--- page 225 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
1: San Mateo Dr & Villa Ter
01/29/2026
Cumulative PM  1:19 pm 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1.4
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
2
1
17
15
2
24
14
472
33
24
576
11
Future Vol, veh/h
2
1
17
15
2
24
14
472
33
24
576
11
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
2
1
19
17
2
27
16
530
37
27
647
12
Major/Minor
Minor2
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
1270
1306
653
1282
1294
549
660
0
0
567
0
0
          Stage 1
707
707
-
580
580
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
563
599
-
702
713
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
6.52
6.22
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518 4.018 3.318 2.218
-
- 2.218
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
145
160
467
142
163
536
929
-
-
1005
-
-
          Stage 1
426
438
-
500
500
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
511
490
-
429
435
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
127
149
467
126
152
536
929
-
-
1005
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
127
149
-
126
152
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
408
419
-
487
487
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
471
478
-
393
417
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
16.35
24.31
0.24
0.34
HCM LOS
C
C
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBL
NBT
NBR EBLn1WBLn1
SBL
SBT
SBR
Capacity (veh/h)
48
-
-
340
232
70
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.017
-
- 0.066 0.198 0.027
-
-
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
8.9
0
-
16.3
24.3
8.7
0
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
A
-
C
C
A
A
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.1
-
-
0.2
0.7
0.1
-
-

--- page 226 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
3: Highland Ave & Villa Ter
01/29/2026
Cumulative PM  1:19 pm 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 2
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
3.5
Movement
WBL WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
17
13
21
13
8
21
Future Vol, veh/h
17
13
21
13
8
21
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
0
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
84
84
84
84
84
84
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
20
15
25
15
10
25
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
77
33
0
0
40
0
          Stage 1
33
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
44
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.42
6.22
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
926
1041
-
-
1569
-
          Stage 1
990
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
978
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
921
1041
-
-
1569
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
921
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
990
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
972
-
-
-
-
-
Approach
WB
NB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
8.86
0
2.02
HCM LOS
A
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBT
NBRWBLn1
SBL
SBT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
969
497
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.037 0.006
-
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
-
-
8.9
7.3
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
A
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.1
0
-

--- page 227 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
9: Villa Ter & Project Dwy
01/29/2026
Cumulative PM  1:19 pm 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 3
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
0
Movement
EBL
EBT
WBT WBR
SBL
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
0
21
28
0
0
0
Future Vol, veh/h
0
21
28
0
0
0
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
0
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
0
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
0
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
0
23
30
0
0
0
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
30
0
-
0
53
30
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
30
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
23
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
-
6.42
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
-
- 3.518 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1582
-
-
-
955
1044
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
992
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
1000
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1582
-
-
-
955
1044
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
955
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
992
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
1000
-
Approach
EB
WB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
0
0
0
HCM LOS
A
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
EBL
EBT
WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)
1582
-
-
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
-
-
-
-
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
0
-
-
-
0
HCM Lane LOS
A
-
-
-
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
-
-
-

--- page 228 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
1: San Mateo Dr & Villa Ter
01/29/2026
Cumulative Plus Project AM  1:20 pm 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
3.2
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
27
3
38
37
7
28
13
440
33
25
392
16
Future Vol, veh/h
27
3
38
37
7
28
13
440
33
25
392
16
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
29
3
41
40
8
30
14
478
36
27
426
17
Major/Minor
Minor2
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
999
1032
435
1007
1022
496
443
0
0
514
0
0
          Stage 1
489
489
-
524
524
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
510
542
-
482
498
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
6.52
6.22
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518 4.018 3.318 2.218
-
- 2.218
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
222
233
621
220
236
574
1117
-
-
1051
-
-
          Stage 1
560
549
-
536
530
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
546
520
-
565
544
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
193
221
621
192
224
574
1117
-
-
1051
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
193
221
-
192
224
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
541
530
-
527
520
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
500
511
-
507
526
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
19.79
24.32
0.22
0.49
HCM LOS
C
C
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBL
NBT
NBR EBLn1WBLn1
SBL
SBT
SBR
Capacity (veh/h)
47
-
-
317
264
103
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.013
-
- 0.233 0.297 0.026
-
-
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
8.3
0
-
19.8
24.3
8.5
0
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
A
-
C
C
A
A
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
-
0.9
1.2
0.1
-
-

--- page 229 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
3: Highland Ave & Villa Ter
01/29/2026
Cumulative Plus Project AM  1:20 pm 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 2
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.9
Movement
WBL WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
19
7
26
10
8
32
Future Vol, veh/h
19
7
26
10
8
32
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
0
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
78
78
78
78
78
78
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
24
9
33
13
10
41
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
101
40
0
0
46
0
          Stage 1
40
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
62
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.42
6.22
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
897
1032
-
-
1562
-
          Stage 1
983
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
961
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
891
1032
-
-
1562
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
891
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
983
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
955
-
-
-
-
-
Approach
WB
NB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
9.04
0
1.46
HCM LOS
A
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBT
NBRWBLn1
SBL
SBT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
925
360
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.036 0.007
-
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
-
-
9
7.3
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
A
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.1
0
-

--- page 230 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
9: Villa Ter & Project Dwy
01/29/2026
Cumulative Plus Project AM  1:20 pm 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 3
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
4.6
Movement
EBL
EBT
WBT WBR
SBL
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
2
16
21
14
45
8
Future Vol, veh/h
2
16
21
14
45
8
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
0
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
0
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
0
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
2
17
23
15
49
9
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
38
0
-
0
52
30
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
30
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
22
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
-
6.42
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
-
- 3.518 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1572
-
-
-
956
1044
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
992
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
1001
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1572
-
-
-
955
1044
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
955
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
991
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
1001
-
Approach
EB
WB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
0.81
0
8.96
HCM LOS
A
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
EBL
EBT
WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)
200
-
-
-
967
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.001
-
-
-
0.06
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
7.3
0
-
-
9
HCM Lane LOS
A
A
-
-
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
-
-
0.2

--- page 231 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
1: San Mateo Dr & Villa Ter
01/29/2026
Cumulative Plus Project PM  1:20 pm 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 1
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.1
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
12
1
27
15
2
24
32
472
33
24
576
29
Future Vol, veh/h
12
1
27
15
2
24
32
472
33
24
576
29
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
89
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
13
1
30
17
2
27
36
530
37
27
647
33
Major/Minor
Minor2
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
1321
1357
663
1322
1354
549
680
0
0
567
0
0
          Stage 1
717
717
-
621
621
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
603
639
-
702
734
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
6.52
6.22
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518 4.018 3.318 2.218
-
- 2.218
-
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
134
149
461
133
149
536
913
-
-
1005
-
-
          Stage 1
420
433
-
475
479
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
486
470
-
429
426
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
113
134
461
111
135
536
913
-
-
1005
-
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
113
134
-
111
135
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
402
415
-
448
452
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
432
443
-
382
408
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
24.22
26.76
0.54
0.33
HCM LOS
C
D
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBL
NBT
NBR EBLn1WBLn1
SBL
SBT
SBR
Capacity (veh/h)
106
-
-
232
211
68
-
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.039
-
- 0.194 0.218 0.027
-
-
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
9.1
0
-
24.2
26.8
8.7
0
-
HCM Lane LOS
A
A
-
C
D
A
A
-
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.1
-
-
0.7
0.8
0.1
-
-

--- page 232 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
3: Highland Ave & Villa Ter
01/29/2026
Cumulative Plus Project PM  1:20 pm 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 2
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
3.7
Movement
WBL WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
19
15
21
16
11
21
Future Vol, veh/h
19
15
21
16
11
21
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
0
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
84
84
84
84
84
84
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
23
18
25
19
13
25
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
86
35
0
0
44
0
          Stage 1
35
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
51
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.42
6.22
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
916
1039
-
-
1564
-
          Stage 1
988
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
971
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
908
1039
-
-
1564
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
908
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
988
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
963
-
-
-
-
-
Approach
WB
NB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
8.91
0
2.52
HCM LOS
A
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBT
NBRWBLn1
SBL
SBT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
961
619
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.042 0.008
-
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
-
-
8.9
7.3
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
A
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.1
0
-

--- page 233 ---
HCM 7th TWSC
9: Villa Ter & Project Dwy
01/29/2026
Cumulative Plus Project PM  1:20 pm 11/12/2025 Baseline
Synchro 12 Report
Hexagon
Page 3
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
2.3
Movement
EBL
EBT
WBT WBR
SBL
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
7
21
28
37
21
4
Future Vol, veh/h
7
21
28
37
21
4
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
0
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
0
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
0
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
92
92
92
92
92
92
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
8
23
30
40
23
4
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
71
0
-
0
89
51
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
51
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
38
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
-
6.42
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
5.42
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
-
- 3.518 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1530
-
-
-
912
1018
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
972
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
984
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1530
-
-
-
908
1018
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
908
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
967
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
984
-
Approach
EB
WB
SB
HCM Ctrl Dly, s/v
1.84
0
9.02
HCM LOS
A
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
EBL
EBT
WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)
450
-
-
-
924
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.005
-
-
- 0.029
HCM Ctrl Dly (s/v)
7.4
0
-
-
9
HCM Lane LOS
A
A
-
-
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0
-
-
-
0.1

--- page 234 ---
1
Holeva Finau
From:
Joanna Winter
Sent:
Monday, March 23, 2026 11:27 AM
To:
Steve Carlson
Cc:
Greg Powell
Subject:
RE: PA 2025-031  715 North San Mateo Drive
Follow Up Flag:
Follow up
Flag Status:
Completed
Mr. Carlson, 
 
Thank you for sharing your comments, which have been received and will be shared with the Planning 
Commissioners. Please see the updated staff report, viewable at our Public Meeting Portal, which 
contains the requested study. I am copying the project planner, Greg Powell, in case you have questions.
 
Thanks, 
 
 
Joanna Winter (she/her) 
Planning Manager | Community Development Dept. 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403 
650-522-7211 | jwinter@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
From: Steve Carlson 
  
Sent: Saturday, March 21, 2026 2:04 PM 
To: Joanna Winter <jwinter@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: PA 2025-031 715 North San Mateo Drive 
 
Mr. Winter: 
 
I was revieing the online Staff Report for PA 2025-031 and it identifies a Transportation Study 
prepared by Hexagon in Attachment 6. However, it is not attached to the packet. The issue of 
impaired views for operators of vehicles egressing from the garage and pedestrians along Villa 
Terrace is a vital safety concern.  
 
The vehicle entry should be from San Mateo Drive in order to minimize increasing vehicle congestion 
on Villa Terrace, eliminating vehicle headlight glare into neighboring single family dwellings living 
rooms, eliminating noise from the garage operations, and reducing the impacts of vehicles exiting the 
project site traveling westbound on Villa Terrace and using the newly improved Highland Avenue 
Bicycle Boulevard (providing enhanced safety for pedestrian and cyclists) - eastbound vehicles 
attempting to make left turn onto North San Mateo Drive at Villa Terrace and State Street is becoming 
increasing difficult due to the increased traffic volumes and sight line on North San Mateo Drive so 
much so that I try to avoid making turns these intersections. Traffic and parking effects associated 
with this major residential development is of utmost concern. I did review the brief summary in the

--- page 235 ---
2
Staff Report and found lacking in detail and substance. The project target clients appears to be single 
tech sector workers (based on the amenities, cowork space, package room, ample bike storage, 
lounge, pool and spa and predominance of single bedroom units etc.) that the project is intended to 
rely on third party transportation vendors for travel and service. The analysis from this project appears 
to undercount the traffic associated with this project as it does not appear to include taxi service 
(eg.uber, lyft, waymo) parcel/package deliveries (e.g. Amazon, Fed Ex, UPS) or other services (eg. 
grocery and food) with I raised this and other concerns at the Neighborhood Meeting conducted on 
Feb 26, 2005. Please provide a copy of the said Attachment 6. 
 
Respectfully,  Steve Carlson

--- page 236 ---
1
Holeva Finau
From:
Joanna Winter
Sent:
Monday, March 23, 2026 11:24 AM
To:
Holeva Finau; Greg Powell; Steven Lizzarago
Cc:
Zachary Dahl; Sung H. Kwon
Subject:
FW: 715 /723 N. San Mateo Drive 247 Villa Terrace
Follow Up Flag:
Follow up
Flag Status:
Flagged
Comment letter received. 
 
 
Joanna Winter (she/her) 
Planning Manager | Community Development Dept. 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403 
650-522-7211 | jwinter@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
From: KATHY WEINGAND 
  
Sent: Monday, March 23, 2026 11:18 AM 
To: Joanna Winter <jwinter@cityofsanmateo.org>; sue dreyer 
; 
Stone, Jonathan 
<JStone@prometheusreg.com> 
Subject: 715 /723 N. San Mateo Drive 247 Villa Terrace 
 
March 20, 2026  
   
Dear Joanna Winter, Jonathan Stone, Prometheus Real Estate Group, and Members of the City of 
San Mateo Planning Department and Commission,  
   
We, the undersigned residents of San Mateo Heights, respectfully submit our concerns regarding the 
proposed development at 715/723 North San Mateo Drive and 247 Villa Terrace..  
   
While we recognize the importance of thoughtful development, we believe that the current proposal 
raises several significant issues related to scale, design compatibility, and neighborhood impact. As 
currently planned, the project appears substantially taller and denser than surrounding structures, 
with minimal setback from the sidewalk. We respectfully request that the height of the development 
not exceed that of existing buildings on the west side of North San Mateo Drive, in order to maintain 
consistency with the established neighborhood character.  
   
In addition, the architectural style of the proposal does not reflect the predominantly early-20th-
century character of the neighborhood, which includes Arts and Crafts, Craftsman, Victorian, Spanish, 
and Colonial influences. We encourage consideration of a design approach that is more harmonious 
with these existing styles.

--- page 237 ---
2
We also note the absence of meaningful green space or landscaped areas in the current plans. Given 
that such features are a defining element of the neighborhood, we respectfully request the inclusion 
of park-like landscaping, a community green space, or similar amenities that contribute positively to 
the environment and quality of life.  
   
Setbacks are another important concern. Homes along Villa Terrace and State Street maintain 
consistent front yard setbacks, contributing to the visual cohesion of the neighborhood. We ask that 
the proposed project incorporate a comparable setback—approximately 15 feet—along these streets 
to align with existing development patterns.  
   
With regard to parking and traffic, residents have consistently expressed concerns about existing 
congestion and limited street parking. At the preliminary meeting on February 26, 2025, it was clearly 
communicated that current conditions are already strained. The proposed ratio of 181 residential units 
to 180 parking spaces appears insufficient given typical household vehicle ownership and visitor 
needs. We respectfully request that the project include adequate parking provisions to prevent further 
burden on surrounding streets and residents.  
   
We are also concerned about potential impacts on airflow, sunlight access, and overall quality of life 
for neighboring properties. Appropriate setbacks and design considerations should be incorporated to 
mitigate these effects.  
   
Furthermore, we ask that construction logistics be carefully managed to minimize disruption. 
Specifically, we request that construction vehicles and equipment not be permitted to park on State 
Street or Villa Terrace at any time during the construction period.  
   
In addition, the City Council of San Mateo recently voted to close Villa Terrace and Bellevue Ave. at 
the train tracks which will obviously restrict traffic flow and cause immeasurable congestion 
throughout the entire neighborhood adding another reason why this project needs to be scaled 
back..    
   
We would also like to raise concerns regarding information presented in the project application about 
the property on Villa Terrace (Parcel B). It is our understanding that this property is currently a duplex 
and occupied, contrary to its description as a single-family residence. We respectfully request that all 
project documentation accurately reflect existing conditions to ensure transparency and informed 
decision-making. Also the notice of the Planning Commission public hearing reflects Ross and Diana 
Bowling as property owners giving the insinuation that they are somehow project developers when in 
fact they are not. This affordable housing Duplex will be torn down to make way for these market rate 
unaffordable apartments.   
   
Finally, we believe that new development should contribute positively to the broader community. In 
light of the cumulative impact of development over recent decades, we encourage the inclusion of 
community-oriented amenities such as green space, a garden, or a small recreational area. 
Furthermore, many of us just received notice of the hearing on March 19th for the March 24th hearing 
which is not adequate time for residents to adjust their schedules to attend the hearing.   
   
As a neighborhood, we remain committed to constructive dialogue and collaboration. As long-time 
residents, we expect to be heard, if not by the Prometheus Group, then by the Planning Commission 
of San Mateo,  as we are direct stakeholders and expect that the planning commision advocate for 
us. We provided these comments a years ago and have not seen any change to the project based on 
our comments. We respectfully ask that Prometheus Real Estate Group work with residents and the

--- page 238 ---
3
City to develop a revised proposal that is lower in density, consistent in scale with surrounding 
buildings, architecturally compatible, and inclusive of adequate setbacks, parking, and green space.  
   
Thank you for your time and consideration.  
   
Sincerely, 
Residents of San Mateo Heights  
   
Kathy Weingand  
   
  
   
  
   
 
Shawn Carter  
   
  
   
  
   
 
Paige DeRadt and Ankit Singh  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
Ray Parres  
   
  
   
  
   
 
John Junkerman   
   
  
   
 
Camella Mumm

--- page 239 ---
4
  
   
 
David and Suzanne Dreyer  
   
  
   
  
   
 
Julia Jun

--- page 240 ---
1
Holeva Finau
From:
James Lloyd 
Sent:
Tuesday, March 24, 2026 12:40 PM
To:
Planning Commission
Cc:
City Attorney's Office; Clerk; Community Development Distribution; City Mgr; Joanna 
Winter
Subject:
public comment re item 1 for tonight's Planning Commission hearing
Attachments:
San Mateo - 715 N. San Mateo Drive - HAA.pdf
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission,  
 
The California Housing Defense Fund (“CalHDF”) submits the attached public comment re item 1 for 
tonight's Planning Commission hearing, the proposed 181-unit housing development project at 715 N. 
San Mateo Drive, which includes 19 very low-income units. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
James M. Lloyd 
Director of Planning and Investigations 
California Housing Defense Fund

--- page 241 ---
Mar 24, 2026
 
City of San Mateo 
330 W 20th Ave 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
By Email: PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org  
 
CC: CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org, clerk@cityofsanmateo.org, 
communitydevelopment@cityofsanmateo.org, citymanager@cityofsanmateo.org; 
jwinter@cityofsanmateo.org  
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission,  
 
The California Housing Defense Fund (“CalHDF”) submits this letter to remind the City of its 
obligation to abide by all relevant state laws when evaluating the proposed 181-unit housing 
development project at 715 N. San Mateo Drive, which includes 19 very low-income units. 
These laws include the Housing Accountability Act (“HAA”), the Density Bonus Law (“DBL”), 
and AB 130. 
 
The HAA provides the project legal protections. It requires approval of zoning and general 
plan compliant housing development projects unless findings can be made regarding 
specific, objective, written health and safety hazards. (Gov. Code, § 65589.5, subds. (d), (j).) The 
HAA also bars cities from imposing conditions on the approval of such projects that would 
reduce the project’s density (id. at subd. (j)) or render the project infeasible (id. at subd. (d)), 
unless again, such written findings are made. As a development with at least two-thirds of 
its area devoted to residential uses, the project falls within the HAA’s ambit, and it complies 
with local zoning code and the City’s general plan. Increased density, concessions, and 
waivers that a project is entitled to under the DBL (Gov. Code, § 65915) do not render the 
project noncompliant with the zoning code or general plan, for purposes of the HAA (Gov. 
Code, § 65589.5, subd. (j)(3)). The HAA’s protections therefore apply, and the City may not 
reject the project except based on health and safety standards, as outlined above. 
Furthermore, if the City rejects the project or impairs its feasibility, it must conduct “a 
thorough analysis of the economic, social, and environmental effects of the action.” (Id. at 
subd. (b).)

--- page 242 ---
CalHDF also writes to emphasize that the DBL offers the proposed development certain 
protections. The City must respect these protections. In addition to granting the increase in 
residential units allowed by the DBL, the City must not deny the project the proposed waivers 
and concessions with respect to height, floor area ratio (FAR), setbacks/yards, landscape 
buffers, blank walls, open space, and yard dimensions. If the City wishes to deny requested 
waivers, Government Code section 65915, subdivision (e)(1) requires findings that the 
waivers would have a specific, adverse impact upon health or safety, and for which there is 
no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific adverse impact. If the City 
wishes to deny requested concessions, Government Code section 65915, subdivision (d)(1) 
requires findings that the concessions would not result in identifiable and actual cost 
reductions, that the concessions would have a specific, adverse impact on public health or 
safety, or that the concessions are contrary to state or federal law. The City, if it makes any 
such findings, bears the burden of proof. (Gov. Code, § 65915, subd. (d)(4).) Of note, the DBL 
specifically allows for a reduction in required accessory parking in addition to the allowable 
waivers and concessions. (Id. at subd. (p).) Additionally, the California Court of Appeal has 
ruled that when an applicant has requested one or more waivers and/or concessions 
pursuant to the DBL, the City “may not apply any development standard that would 
physically preclude construction of that project as designed, even if the building includes 
‘amenities’ beyond the bare minimum of building components.” (Bankers Hill 150 v. City of 
San Diego (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 755, 775.) 
 
Furthermore, the project is eligible for a statutory exemption from CEQA pursuant to AB 130 
(Pub. Res. Code, § 21080.66). Caselaw from the California Court of Appeal affirms that local 
governments err, and may be sued, when they improperly refuse to grant a project a CEQA 
exemption or streamlined CEQA review to which it is entitled. (Hilltop Group, Inc. v. County of 
San Diego (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 890, 911.) 
 
As you are well aware, California remains in the throes of a statewide crisis-level housing 
shortage. New housing such as this is a public benefit: by providing affordable housing, it 
will mitigate the state’s homelessness crisis; it will increase the city’s tax base; it will bring 
new customers to local businesses; and it will reduce displacement of existing residents by 
reducing competition for existing housing. It will also help cut down on 
transportation-related greenhouse gas emissions by providing housing in denser, more 
urban areas, as opposed to farther-flung regions in the state (and out of state). While no one 
project will solve the statewide housing crisis, the proposed development is a step in the 
right direction. CalHDF urges the City to approve it, consistent with its obligations under 
state law. 
 
CalHDF is a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation whose mission includes advocating for 
increased access to housing for Californians at all income levels, including low-income 
households. You may learn more about CalHDF at www.calhdf.org. 
 
 
2 of 3

--- page 243 ---
Sincerely,

Dylan Casey
CalHDF Executive Director

James M. Lloyd
CalHDF Director of Planning and Investigations

3 of 3


--- page 244 ---
1
Holeva Finau
From:
Joanna Winter
Sent:
Tuesday, March 24, 2026 4:35 PM
To:
Zachary Dahl; Prasanna Rasiah; Greg Powell; Steven Lizzarago; Holeva Finau
Subject:
FW: PA 2025-031
Forwarding comment received 
 
 
Joanna Winter (she/her) 
Planning Manager | Community Development Dept. 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403 
650-522-7211 | jwinter@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
From: Steve Carlson 
  
Sent: Tuesday, March 24, 2026 4:01 PM 
To: Joanna Winter <jwinter@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: PA 2025-031 
 
Ms. Winter: 
 
Thank you for placing Attachment #7 Transportation Study on the Staff Report.  am submitting a few 
comments regarding the proposed project with this email. 
 
Respectfully, 
 
Steve Carlson 
To: San Mateo Planning Commission 
From: Steve Carlson  
 
Re: PA 2025-031 
PROJECT NOT RIPE FOR REVIEW 
Due to the incompleteness and inadequacy of the project description and the incompleteness of 
the Notice, and the 73-page Transportation Study referenced in the City Staff Report made 
available on-line mid-day on Monday March 22, 2026. 
Staff Report does not include sufficient analysis of Transportation Study nor several other long 
term and project related issues of importance to neighborhood residents including concerns 
voiced at other projects, and voiced at the applicant’s Neighborhood Meeting conducted on

--- page 245 ---
2
February 26, 2025 – over one year ago. Building brutalist design, 75-foot height, massive bulk, 
large scale details, lack of setbacks and landscaping, lack of on-site parking, impact to on-street 
parking, generation of noise, odors, off-site glare, and construction impacts.  
Several studies associated with project need to be completed prior to any public hearing 
decisions-makers can make an informed design on the appropriateness of the design and the life 
safety and economic harms caused to the area residents. 
On-street Parking Study, Wind Alteration, Shading Study, Noise Study, Off-Site Lighting and 
Glare Studies Soils and Geotech, and a Phase I Environmental Assessment. The applicant and 
City Staff have had ample time upwards of one year to conduct these studies and has not 
significantly modified the site plan nor the building design. 
The meeting needs to be continued. 
ISSUES 
NOTICE 
Incomplete description and identification of required entitlements. 
DESCRIPTION 
Incomplete Key details left out. Off-site improvements 750 linear feet and soil nailing 
permanent use of public right-of-way, and on-street garbage bins loading zone and truck 
loading Removal of 4 tree qualifying as major vegetation. Bicycle parking for 208 bicycles. 
Grading of 53,000 square feet and excavation of 21,000 cubic yards. Elimination of unknown 
number of on-street parking spaces.   
  
  
ENTITLEMENTS 
All of the required entitlements are not identified. 
SITE PLAN ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW  
VESTING TENTATIVE PARCEL MAP  
No description of purpose of the map. 
SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANNING APPROVAL 
The purpose of the ADPA, removal of 4 trees constituting major vegetation is absent.

--- page 246 ---
3
SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANNING APPROVAL 
Grading of over 53,000 SF and Soil Excavation/Off-haul of over 21,000 cubic yards.   
TRANSPORTATION STUDY – Attachment #7 – The 73 page report was made available on 
March 23, 2026 and only after public comment that the attachment was missing from the Staff 
Report.   
The public nor the Planning Commission can reasonably be expected understand the traffic 
impacts without reading the report. Reliance on a public presentation by the City’s 
Transportation consultant nor the Staff Reports two paragraph summary adequately conveys the 
details of the study – e.g. what was included, what trip distributions were assumed, what data 
bases were utilized, what intersection were evaluated, were building operations included (e.g. 
garbage pickup, taxi and delivery service, unit turnover, visitation, business use).  
LIFE SAFETY HAZARDS 
Construction, Grading and Excavation Impacts – Fugitive dust, odors noise, parking, traffic and 
circulation impacts lasting weeks. Sensitive receptors including children, nearby schools, 
transitional housing, day care, CDBG related service and senior assisted living Auto related 
uses. 
Excavation - Adverse harms imposed on abutting residences. Forced financial burden 
associated with protecting their own properties from excavation (e.g. legal representatives 
insurance costs, bonding and Geotech consultants, and shoring (sheet piling?)). 
Villa Terrace Garage Entry – Creates permanent Pedestrian/Vehicle conflicts at garage 
entry/public sidewalk leading to potential accidents. The pedestrian/vehicle conflict created by 
the building design by the lack of an adequate sight-line has not been addressed. 
Phase I Environmental Assessment – Specifically required as a Condition of Approval by 
CEQA, but not included. Given the age and past use of existing structures and buildings likely 
contain toxic and hazardous materials. Given the immediate adjacency of residential properties 
identification and removal is important for the public safety. Ideally, this study would have been 
completed so that the decision-makers and the public were informed prior to a decisional 
meeting. 
NOISE ODORS AND OFF-SITE LIGHTING GLARE AND NIGHTTIME AMBIENT 
LIGHTING LEVELS 
The Villa Terrace garage entry will create permanent off-site glare on single family dwellings 
opposite the entry. 
Operation of the west facing open recreation areas will generate noise odors and off-site glare. 
All uses in the E2 zone district are required by the SMMC Title 27 to be enclosed.

--- page 247 ---
4
The nighttime use of the building may significantly increase the nighttime ambient lighting 
levels on neighboring residential properties adversely affecting occupancy and landscaping. 
WIND   
Building height and slab design, with limited setbacks may block prevailing west winds 
resulting in channeling and altering winds, accelerating ground level wind speeds adversely 
affecting neighboring residential properties and potentially the sidewalk areas.  
PRIVACY 
VIDEO RECORDING CAMERAS- Video recording of persons walking, cycling and driving 
will have images recorded by an unknown vendor and final image disposition. Can acts to deter 
anyone using project streets. Vendor, Length of storage, sale of image information. 
ADJACENT RESIDENTIAL AREAS - West facing dwelling units and open recreation areas 
and observation deck lounge have unobstructed views of neighboring properties thereby 
eliminating what little privacy residents possess. 
DESIGN  
QUALITY OF FIT – Building height, bulk, non-existent setbacks, it emphasis on verticality, 
brutish design, large scale details, single entry, lack of unified single-entry garage and 
pedestrian entry, self-contained gated community and pedestal design with open recreation 
pools fronting on public streets is incompatible with open landscaped small scale 1 to 2 story 
residences neighborhood. Existing suburban residential neighborhood is intended to encourage 
neighborliness and foster calm. The proposed monumental building does not reflect any of the 
established pattern or qualities of access to light air and tranquility. The building does not 
increase opportunities for neighborliness and engagement with area residents except within the 
building- an essential hallmark of suburban community design. 
The building creates more isolation through limited access gated pedestrian entry on North San 
Mateo Drive facing the commercial areas and the separate single garage enty/exit on Villa 
Terrace.   
Concentration of vehicle traffic on Villa Terrace and on-street truck and garbage loading. 
Potential significant reduction and adverse impact to existing supply of essential street parking. 
Spreading parking impacts to the area on adjacent streets. 
Increase in traffic and noise will not increase the areas attractiveness and interest, but will 
increase nuisances and congestion and conflicts.    
ECONOMIC HARM

--- page 248 ---
5
EXCAVATION, SHADING AND WIND – The proposed building and immediate 
juxtaposition to abutting properties subject the owners and residents to permanent harm.  To 
protect their property from the proposed excavation, owners are required to shore their property 
and improvements and protect the excavated property from harm.  Owners may need to hire a 
Geoteh engineer, a contractor legal counsel and may experience insurance issues. 
The Shading caused by the building will likely permanently increase energy costs during the 
period between the Fall and Spring Equinox. This will likely be exacerbated by rising energy 
costs. The shading will adversely affect landscape planting and use of outdoor area resulting in 
further costs. 
Increases in ground level wind speeds may contribute to increased energy costs by affecting 
ground level temperature and evaporation. Outdoor use areas may be adversely affected in 
terms of activity and landscape planting. Increase wind speeds can adversely affect door and 
window operation.

--- page 249 ---
1
Holeva Finau
From:
Max Mautner 
Sent:
Wednesday, March 25, 2026 9:24 PM
To:
Planning Commission
Cc:
Greg Powell
Subject:
Thank You – Approval of PA-2025-031 – 715/723 N San Mateo Drive
Follow Up Flag:
Follow up
Flag Status:
Flagged
Dear Planning Commissioners, 
 
Thank you for unanimously approving the multi-family residential project at 715/723 N San Mateo Drive 
(PA-2025-031) on March 24. 
I live three blocks away on Highland Avenue and want my support on the record.  
 
This project is exactly the kind of infill density San Mateo needs on a transit, walking & biking accessible 
corridor: 181 units including 19 for very-low income households. 
 
Today, it is a vacant surface parking lot that has blighted my neighborhood for years--but I hope that a 
few years from now it will have foot-traffic and vibrancy, especially with its lower parking ratio:

--- page 250 ---
2
 
I hope to see more decisions like this one. 
 
I also want to validate my neighbors who spoke at public comment: curb parking congestion will occur 
when this project is fully leased. 
 
While a review of the city's curb parking program is outside the planning commission's purview, I urge 
you to push council to act.  
 
My neighborhood would benefit from a residential parking permit program, and with continued infill 
development citywide it will become an unavoidable political priority that is best addressed sooner 
rather than later. 
 
Yours truly, 
Max Mautner

--- page 251 ---
715/723 N San Mateo Drive
Six-story Multi-Family Residential Project 
PA-2025-031
Planning Commission Public Hearing
March 24, 2026
Greg Powell, M-Group Consulting Planner
On the behalf of the 
Community Development Department

--- page 252 ---
PRESENTATION OVERVIEW
• PROJECT BACKGROUND
• Project History
• Location
• Project Description
• Entitlements
• CODE & POLICY REVIEW
• General Plan, Zoning Code & Local Plans
• State Law
• Affordable Housing
• Design Review
• Impact Fees
• Environmental Review
• PUBLIC NOTICE
• STAFF RECOMMENDATION

--- page 253 ---
PROJECT BACKGROUND
• Pre-Application
• SB 330 Preliminary Application filed on November 
14, 2024
• Neighborhood Informational Meeting held on 
February 26, 2025
• Formal Planning Application
• Filed on April 15, 2025
• City review of project for completeness and 
consistency: April 2025 to January 2026
• Deemed Complete January 12, 2026
Project History
Location
Project Description
Entitlements
Project Background

--- page 254 ---
‘\

Burlingame™

ee Park

-_



--- page 255 ---
5
Looking West along N. San Mateo Drive
Looking Northwest @Villa Terrace & N. San Mateo Drive
Block 21 
Looking Southwest @State Street & N. San Mateo Drive
Looking Northeast @247 Villa Terrace
Site

--- page 256 ---
6
Looking Southeast along N. San Mateo Drive @Villa Terrace 
Looking North Along N. San Mateo Drive @State Street
Looking East along N. San Mateo Drive
Vicinity
Looking Northeast along N. San Mateo Drive

--- page 257 ---
PROJECT BACKGROUND
Project History
Location
Project Description
Entitlements
Project Site &
Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040 Study Areas

--- page 258 ---
PROJECT BACKGROUND
• Approx. 258,000 SF Multi-family Residential building
• 181 dwellings
• 19 dwellings to be reserved for very-low-income households (BMR)
• 6 stories / 75’-11” 
• 180 covered parking stalls 
• 131 stalls below grade and 49 on the ground floor
• Access via a new driveway and curb cut to Villa Terrace
• Residential amenities –
• Pool, fitness room & amenity deck on 2nd  floor, common room & 
amenity deck/BBQ area on 6th floor
Project History
Location
Project Description
Entitlements

--- page 259 ---
PROJECT BACKGROUND
181 Dwellings (19 below market rate + 162 market rate)
Project History
Location
Project Description
Entitlements
Total
Market Rate
Very-Low Income
Below Market Rate
Unit Type
9
8
1
Studio
37
33
4
Urban 1-bed
79
71
8
1-bed
52
46
6
2-bed
4
4
0
3-bed
181
162
19
Total Units
Dwelling Mix: BMR and Market-Rate

--- page 260 ---
North San Mateo Drive
Villa Terrace
State Street
Garage Access

--- page 261 ---
PROJECT BACKGROUND
• Site Plan & Architectural Review (SPAR)
• New multifamily residential building. 
• Requires Planning Commission approval (building 
within 6-story height limit set by the San Mateo 
General Plan 2040 Land Use Designation of 
Residential Medium II).
• Site Development Permit Application (SDPA)
• Removal of Major Vegetation and Protected Trees. 
• Vesting Tentative Parcel Map (VTM)
• The Project would merge four parcels into one 
parcel. 
• Per SMMC section 26.48.060, the Planning 
Commission is the review authority.
Project History
Location
Project Description
Entitlements
Required Actions

--- page 262 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
General Plan Land Use: Residential Medium II
General Plan, Zoning Code & 
Local Plans
State Law
Affordable Housing
Design Review
Impact Fees
Environmental Review
Maximum
Proposed
6
6
Height – Stories
121 Dwellings
(99 units/acre)
181 Dwellings
(148 units/acre)
Residential Density 
(DU/acre)

--- page 263 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
General Plan, Zoning Code & 
Local Plans
State Law
Affordable Housing
Design Review
Impact Fees
Environmental Review
Max/Min
C3-2     E2-1.5
Proposed
1.5
2.0
3.9
Floor Area Ratio (FAR)
7’-6”
7’-6”
N/A
N/A
N/A
25’
0’
0’
2’
Buffers - Unobstructed Yard
-Front Yard (North San Mateo Drive)
-Side Yard (Villa Terrace)
-Rear Yard (abutting the R3 district)
38’
38’
N/A
N/A
0’
2
Buffers - Landscape
-Side (Villa Terrace) 
-Rear Yard (abutting the R3 district)
3,253 sf
N/A
0’
Open Space (at-grade)
0
180
Parking
196 
12
196
12
Bicycle Parking 
-Long Term
-Short Term
1
1
Loading
Zoning: C3-2 & E2-1.5

--- page 264 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
• State Density Bonus Law (Gov’t Code section 65915)
• Density Bonus - 50% Density Increase 
• Up to 3 Concessions
• Unlimited Waivers
• Proposed Project
• 15% of base density (19 Units) for Very Low Income
• 50% Density Increase (60 Units)
• No Concessions requested
• Waivers from Development Standards
• Increased floor area ratio (FAR) 
• Reduced setbacks/yards, landscape buffers, & 
open space
• 1 Objective Design Standard
General Plan and Zoning Code & 
Local Plans
State Law
Affordable Housing
Design Review
Impact Fees
Environmental Review
State Density Bonus & the Project

--- page 265 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
Density Bonus Waivers
General Plan and Zoning Code & 
Local Plans
State Law
Affordable Housing
Design Review
Impact Fees
Environmental Review
C3-2
E2-1.5
SMMC Standard
27.48.060(c)
27.34.050(b)
Floor Area Ratio (FAR)
27.48.090
N/A
Buffers - Unobstructed Yard
-North San Mateo Drive & Villa 
Terrace
N/A
27.34.060, 
27.30.060(a) & 
27.22.080(c)
Buffers - Unobstructed Yard
- Abutting the R3 district)
27.48.100
N/A
Buffers - Landscape
-Villa Terrace 
-Abutting the R3 district)
27.48.065
N/A
Parcel Coverage-Open 
Space 
Section
ODS Standard
4.1.1
Blank Walls

--- page 266 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
General Plan and Zoning Code & 
Local Plans
State Law
Affordable Housing
Design Review
Impact Fees
Environmental Review
• Housing Accountability Act (HAA)
• Limits a local agency’s ability to deny, reduce the 
density of, or render housing development projects 
infeasible if objective standards are met
• Housing Crisis Act (Senate Bill 330)
• Project vested – freezes development standards 
and fee structure
• Assembly Bill 130
• New California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
exemption for housing development projects 
• Expedited review process
• Assembly Bill 2097
• Prohibits parking minimums for qualifying projects 
within one-half mile from major public transit stop
State Housing Laws

--- page 267 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
• Projects with 11 or more rental units, must provide 
at least:
• 15% of the units for Lower-Income Households; or
• 10% of the units for Very Low-Income Households
• This project satisfies local BMR requirements by 
providing:
• 15% of the units for Very Low-Income Households.
• The units proposed at the Very Low-Income level 
must also meet local requirements for unit size, 
type, and design. 
General Plan and Zoning Code & 
Local Plans
State Law
Affordable Housing
Design Review
Impact Fees
Environmental Review
San Mateo Inclusionary Housing Program

--- page 268 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
General Plan and Zoning Code & 
Local Plans
State Law
Affordable Housing
Design Review
Impact Fees
Environmental Review

--- page 269 ---
met |

133

LT an ame |
mga a

z

coo mm a arjnan All :

cee YAM ey HE WE HI

ne a emefoceiece of HH LH Hl
Bau of

CITY OF

: A a



--- page 270 ---
Or

‘\

()

te
, | om ii
EEG] GEE Bea ®

CITY OF

HW
H)
H)
il



--- page 271 ---
LL
O
>
2s
O

=. e

I Sese 1



--- page 272 ---
I I ] .
FARRER
EH FH EH Eh
Saree =a

T 7 T T T
SHE HE 688 BI i:
es

SHB =

| FERRE

HH H EYRE

CaP eeies
Piro oi

eo eee
| eye |

| soos

Zz

5

Bess) =2) 22) =|

‘¢

LL
O
>
2s
O



--- page 273 ---
_ _ ~ ee 4
; Sh

te a

= ito am
y a 2

i Poe, i =r it eer AT i Wed glen bai! le Tea ge
‘i Cr so so rere Toe = mee ia: hi pan = o> TT ee seo Pir

casi uy ee ik eee Be iphila ald eS | oe Sie: a | esi an eter me ws ene pita as at
RESTS ‘3 i ?
i * i
‘

CITY OF



--- page 274 ---
Looking Northwest @Villa Terrace & N. San Mateo Drive

--- page 275 ---
yt
Me |

I hl alll ne aul

wl

wil
ill



--- page 276 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO



--- page 277 ---
4

2

ee

CITY OF SAN MATEO



--- page 278 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO



--- page 279 ---
Sr ITE
MH

TENN Ny
<= mun

CITY OF SAN MATEO



--- page 280 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
General Plan and Zoning Code & 
Local Plans
State Law
Affordable Housing
Design Review
Impact Fees
Environmental Review
Materials

--- page 281 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
General Plan and Zoning Code & 
Local Plans
State Law
Affordable Housing
Design Review
Impact Fees
Environmental Review
Estimate
Fee
$1.26 million 
Wastewater Capacity Charge
$506,100
Transportation Improvement Fee
$3.57 million
Park In-Lieu/Impact Fee 
1.19% of building valuation
Art in Public Places Fee
$8,400
Tree Replacement & Landscape In-
Lieu Fee
$601,800
Childcare Development Fee
$4.94 per square foot
School Impact Fees
Development Fees

--- page 282 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
• Assembly Bill 130
• Effective date: July 1, 2025
• Requires expedited project review & decision 
timeline
• Tribal Consultation requirements 
• Project Exempt from CEQA pursuant to Public 
Resources Code section 21080.66
General Plan and Zoning Code & 
Local Plans
State Law
Affordable Housing
Design Review
Impact Fees
Environmental Review
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)

--- page 283 ---
PUBLIC NOTICE
• Neighborhood Meeting: February 26, 2025
• 40 attendees
• Comments related to parking adequacy, traffic and construction impacts, and the size 
of the building 
• Public Noticing: 10 days in advance of hearing (March 14, 2026)
• Published in the San Mateo Daily Journal 
• Mailed to property owners, residential tenants, and business tenants within 1,000 
feet
• Published to the City’s “Notify Me” email list
• Posted in 3 Public Facilities
• Posted On-site – all project frontages

--- page 284 ---
RECOMMENDED MODIFICATIONS TO 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
Conditions 23, 24 & 92 – “COMPREHENSIVE FEE SCHEDULE”:
Comprehensive Fee Schedule in effect at the time of building permit submittal
Condition 59 – STREETLIGHTS PHOTOMETRICS:
(B) Include a design for lighting all public streets, intersections, sidewalks, pedestrian paths, and
bicycle facilities located in the public roadway right-of-way adjacent to the project site to meet the
lighting levels per the photometric analysis. The analysis shall be based on existing lighting across the
street and any new lighting to be installed fronting the project property.

--- page 285 ---
RECOMMENDED MODIFICATIONS TO 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
Condition 60 – PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
(A) SIGNAGE AND STRIPING – Any existing painted curb or pavement markings that were not
removed during the project’s street restoration and are no longer required shall be removed by
grinding if thermoplastic, sand blasting if in paint.
(C) SIDEWALK – The applicant shall replace all sidewalk fronting the project site as shown on the
approved plan set with A.5. Sidewalk Standards – Residential Type C New Development from the
City’s Pedestrian Master Plan.
(D) CURB RAMPS – The applicant shall construct curb ramp(s) in accordance with Caltrans Standard
Plan A88A or other ADA compliant configurations with special approval from Public Works, at N San
Mateo Dr & State St and N San Mateo Dr & Villa Terrace. The actual ramp “Case” shall be identified
on the plans and shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee or designee.

--- page 286 ---
RECOMMENDED MODIFICATIONS TO 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
Condition 60 – PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
(I) & (J) Replaced with:
STORM WATER CONNECTION – The applicant shall connect to the City storm system using three
connection points at most, where tying directly into the City Storm Main, a wye connection shall be
used in accordance with City Standard Drawings. The applicant shall replace existing catch basin at
the proposed bioretention along Villa Terrace to include overflow drain inlet per approved plans and
in accordance with City Standard Details.
(K) STREETLIGHTING IMPROVEMENTS –
2) Implement associated streetlight infrastructure improvements beyond the project frontage or the
roadway centerline if such improvements are necessary to provide a functioning lighting system for
the project frontage.

--- page 287 ---
RECOMMENDED MODIFICATIONS TO 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
Condition 106 – SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS:
Exterior security lighting in compliance with the Building Security Code “Exterior Security Lighting”
(SMMC section 23.54.060) shall be provided and maintained at all times that the use permitted by this
planning application occupies the premises. Site lighting shall comply with the requirement of an average
illuminance of 1 foot-candle, a minimum illuminance of 0.3 foot-candle, and a uniformity ratio not to
exceed 4:1 average to minimum. Light sources shall be capable of producing a “bright white” light with a
color temperature between 3000K and 4000K and a color rendering index (CRI) of at least 65 unless
otherwise approved. This lighting standard is applicable to all parking lots, driveways, circulation areas,
aisles, passageways, recesses, and grounds contiguous to all buildings. The lighting system shall be so
designed as to limit light spill beyond property lines and to shield the light source from view from off site.

--- page 288 ---
RECOMMENDED MODIFICATIONS TO 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
Condition 108 – PHOTOMETRIC PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT:
The building permit plans for the superstructure shall include a photometric plan showing the installation
of lighting fixtures and lighting levels to be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police or their
designee. The photometric plan shall include point-by-point lighting levels in foot-candles for the entire
plot and ten feet beyond the project property lines. The point-by-point photometric plan shall provide
lighting levels on a grid not to exceed five feet by five feet across the entire site. Each point shall report
the illuminance to the nearest 0.1 foot-candles. Photometric calculations including maximum foot-
candles, average foot-candles, minimum foot-candles, average to minimum uniformity, and maximum to
minimum uniformity shall be included on the plan submitted. Select specifications for fixtures selected
shall be provided on the photometric plan sufficient to ensure compliance with the SITE LIGHTING
STANDARDS.

--- page 289 ---
STAFF RECOMMENDATION
That the Planning Commission adopt a resolution to find that the
Project is exempt from further review under the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and approve Site Plan and
Architectural
Review
(SPAR),
Site
Development
Planning
Application (SDPA), &
Vesting Tentative Parcel Map (VTM) to
permit the construction of a new multifamily residential building
with 181 dwellings and associated site improvements at 715 N. San
Mateo Drive, based on the Findings for Approval and subject to the
Recommended Conditions of Approval.

--- page 290 ---
Thank You
Greg Powell, M-Group Consulting Planner, with:
Joanna Winter, Planning Manager & 
Steven Lizzarago, Assistant Planner

--- page 291 ---
1
715 N SAN MATEO DR, SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING   |   MARCH 2026
715 N SAN MATEO DR
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
MARCH 24TH, 2026

--- page 292 ---
PROMETHEUS - SAN MATEO
2
715 N SAN MATEO DR, SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING   |   MARCH 2026
METROPOLITAN
338 S FREMONT ST
BRICKLINE
20 N ELLSWORTH AVE
668 E 3RD AVENUE
668 E 3RD AVE
BESPOKE
401-445 S B ST
B STREET SOUTH
425 S ELLSWORTH AVE
1ST AND B
57 S B ST

--- page 293 ---
2040 GENERAL PLAN
/010  2 34! "#"5
PROJECT SITE
715 N SAN MATEO DR
3
715 N SAN MATEO DR, SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING   |   MARCH 2026
•	 Residential uses per 2040 General Plan
•	 Residential Medium II

--- page 294 ---
SITE CONTEXT
EL CAMINO REAL
N SAN MATEO DR
HWY 101
3RD AVE
E 4TH AVE
E POPLAR AVE
PENINSULA AVE
4
715 N SAN MATEO DR, SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING   |   MARCH 2026
•	 Walking distance to commercial 
business districts in Downtown 
San Mateo and Burlingame
•	 Adjacent to bicycle path network
•	 Direct access to major 
transportation routes
Project Site
Caltrain
Caltrain Station
Commercial Business Districts
Prometheus Properties
1/2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain Station

--- page 295 ---
ARCHITECTURAL PROPOSAL
5
715 N SAN MATEO DR, SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING   |   MARCH 2026
VILLA TERRACE
N SAN MATEO DR
STATE ST

--- page 296 ---
ARCHITECTURAL PROPOSAL
6
715 N SAN MATEO DR, SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING   |   MARCH 2026

--- page 297 ---
ARCHITECTURAL PROPOSAL
7
715 N SAN MATEO DR, SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING   |   MARCH 2026
San Mateo’s Multifamily Objective Design 
Standards:
•	 Maintain and enhance San Mateo’s charm through the 
built environment and ensure new development fits 
contextually into surrounding neighborhoods [2.1.C] 
•	 Ensure that pedestrian movement and experiences are 
considered foremost in the massing, placement, and 
design of new development [2.1.D]
Project Overview:
•	 6-story, 181 unit multifamily building
•	 Internal parking garage

--- page 298 ---
ARCHITECTURAL PROPOSAL
8
715 N SAN MATEO DR, SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING   |   MARCH 2026
Design Alignment with City Guidelines:
4.1.2 Articulation Details
•	 2 of 6 facade articulation details are required for mid-
rise buildings   [4.1.2]:
•	 The following 2 details are incorporated into the 
design:
A. Architectural projections such as roof eaves, 
overhangs, cornices, pergolas, or awnings
B. Balconies per unit
C. Box or bay windows per unit
D. Window recesses and edges, including mouldings 
and reveals 
E. Projecting or recessed rooms or units for a 
minimum of 30% of the units for a mid and high-
rise development
F. Horizontal mouldings

--- page 299 ---
ARCHITECTURAL PROPOSAL
9
715 N SAN MATEO DR, SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING   |   MARCH 2026
Design Alignment with City Guidelines:
4.1.3 Building Materials & Color
•	 To ensure buildings are not monochromatic the 
following strategies are required to be used [4.1.3]:
•	 All 4 requirements are incorporated into the design:
A. A combination of at least 3 different colors and/
or materials but no more than 6 are to be used on 
each building elevation
B. Each color or material shall constitute at least 
10% of the building facade
C. A change in color/material shall be characterized 
by a minimum 6 inch offset from the adjacent 
building plane, or architectural element such as 
moldings or bandings shall be used to create the 
offset
D. Change of materials shall not end at an inside 
corner

--- page 300 ---
ARCHITECTURAL PROPOSAL
10
715 N SAN MATEO DR, SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING   |   MARCH 2026
Design Alignment with City Guidelines:
4.1.6 Massing Breaks - Mid-Rise Buildings
•	 4 of 9 changes in detailing are required to create 
distinct building segments and add variation to the 
building plane [4.1.6]:
•	 The following 4 elements are incorporated into the 
design: 
i. Change of materials and or colors
ii. Differing window size
iii. Change in window treatments
iv. Inclusion, or change, of cornices
v. Inclusion, or change, of columns or pilasters
vi. Inclusion, or exclusion, of balconies
vii. Inclusion, or change, of horizontal banding  
viii. Wall plane offset a minimum of 18 inches
ix. Change in roof form or heights aligned with the 
building segments

--- page 301 ---
ARCHITECTURAL PROPOSAL
11
715 N SAN MATEO DR, SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING   |   MARCH 2026
Design Alignment with City Guidelines:
4.1.6 Massing Breaks - Mid-Rise Buildings
•	 At the intersection of two primary streets or a primary 
and a secondary street, building corners shall be 
articulated by incorporating 1 of the following [4.1.6]:
•	 At the intersection of N San Mateo Dr and Villa Terrace 
and the intersection of N San Mateo Dr and State St 
the following element is incorporated into the design:
1. A corner cut at the base of the building
2. A tower element which extends beyond the building 
ridge
3. Special treatment of either different exterior 
materials, paint colors, recesses, or projections 
relative to the adjacent units, or combination of 
these features
4. An architectural element such as a cupola, quoin 
treatment, rooftop sculpture, or spire

--- page 302 ---
THANK YOU
12
715 N SAN MATEO DR, SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING   |   MARCH 2026

--- page 303 ---
715 N SAN MATEO DR, SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING   |   MARCH 2026
 
APPENDIX:
A.1 - STREETS AND SIDEWALKS, STREET PARKING
A.2 - DESIGN EVOLUTION OF REAR WALL
A.3 - DESIGN EVOLUTION OF PROJECT
A.4 - PARKING PLAN AND BICYCLE PARKING
A.5 - LANDSCAPE PLAN
A.6 - STREET TREES
A.7 - TRASH MANAGEMENT PLAN
COMPLETE PLANSET

--- page 304 ---
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
ELEV 1
202 SF
FIRE
COMMAND
536 SF
MAIL/PACKAGE
1046 SF
LOBBY
921 SF
COWORKING
816 SF
ND/LEASING
25001 SF
PARKING
ELEV 2
1574 SF
BIKE PARKING
945 SF
TRASH ROOM
175 SF
MUDDY
PAWS
250 SF
POOL EQUIPMENT
1086 SF
MAINTENANCE
656 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C4
668 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
838 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UC
942 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
954 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
773 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
753 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
735 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
741 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1427 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2G
667 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
614 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1237 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2D
66 SF
IDF
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
533 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: SB
ELECTRIC
CORRIDOR
MPOE
1325 SF
ELECTRIC
ELECTRIC
193 SF
RESTROOMS
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
11/03/2025
20241881
BN
12-31-27
C4.0
PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN
 
APPENDIX A.1 - SIDEWALKS AND STREETS
PROPOSED STREETSCAPE
EXISTING STREETSCAPE

--- page 305 ---
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
ELEV 1
202 SF
FIRE
COMMAND
536 SF
MAIL/PACKAGE
1046 SF
LOBBY
921 SF
COWORKING
816 SF
ND/LEASING
25001 SF
PARKING
ELEV 2
1574 SF
BIKE PARKING
945 SF
TRASH ROOM
175 SF
MUDDY
PAWS
250 SF
POOL EQUIPMENT
1086 SF
MAINTENANCE
656 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C4
668 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
838 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UC
942 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
954 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
773 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
753 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
735 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
741 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1427 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2G
667 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
614 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1237 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2D
66 SF
IDF
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
533 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: SB
ELECTRIC
CORRIDOR
MPOE
1325 SF
ELECTRIC
ELECTRIC
193 SF
RESTROOMS
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
03/23/2026
20241881
BN
12-31-27
PC
PARKING COUNT
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
TOTAL NUMBER OF PROPOSED
STREET PARKING SPACES = 11
TOTAL NUMBER OF EXISTING
STREET PARKING SPACES = 10
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
TOTAL NUMBER OF EXISTING
STREET PARKING SPACES = 10

--- page 306 ---
LOW GRADE
0' - 0"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
71' - 9"
10' - 0"
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
16' - 3"
13' - 9"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
11' - 0"
4' - 0"
HIGH POINT
75' - 11 1/2"
75' - 11 1/2" - BUILDING HEIGHT
1
2
3
4
4
7
LOW GRADE
0' - 0"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
71' - 9"
4' - 0"
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
10' - 0"
11' - 0"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
13' - 9"
16' - 3"
HIGH POINT
75' - 11 1/2"
75' - 11 1/2" - BUILDING HEIGHT
1
3
4
4
4
5
8' - 0"
5
6
8' - 0"
7
8
8
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
3/32" = 1'-0"
A 3.00
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
3/32" = 1'-0"
EAST ELEVATION
3/32" = 1'-0"
WEST ELEVATION
ELEVATION NOTES
1
42" FALL PROTECTION GUARDRAIL AT ROOF, TYP.
2
CAST METAL BUILDING SIGNAGE, HT 18", DEPTH 2"
3
42" GUARDRAIL AT UNIT, TYP.
4
STAIR PENTHOUSE
5
8' TALL PRIVACY FENCE ALONG REAR PROPERTY
LINE, STEP FENCE WITH GRADE TO MAINTAIN 8'
HEIGHT
6
RAISED PLANTER @ REAR PL, TYP
7
EXTERIOR LIGHTING, TYP. SEE E 2.00 FOR
EXTERIOR LIGHTING PLANS, SCHEDULE & SPECS
8
3-DIMENSIONAL WALL RELIEF PILASTERS
 
APPENDIX A.2 - DESIGN EVOLUTION OF REAR WALL
REAR WALL DESIGN AT FIRST SUBMITTAL
FINAL EVOLUTION OF REAR WALL DESIGN

--- page 307 ---
LOW GRADE
0' - 0"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
71' - 9"
4' - 0"
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
10' - 0"
11' - 0"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
13' - 9"
16' - 3"
HIGH POINT
75' - 11 1/2"
75' - 11 1/2" - BUILDING HEIGHT
1
3
4
4
4
5
8' - 0"
5
6
8' - 0"
7
8
8
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
3/32" = 1'-0"
A 3.00
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
3/32" = 1'-0"
WEST ELEVATION
ELEVATION NOTES
1
42" FALL PROTECTION GUARDRAIL AT ROOF, TYP.
2
CAST METAL BUILDING SIGNAGE, HT 18", DEPTH 2"
3
42" GUARDRAIL AT UNIT, TYP.
4
STAIR PENTHOUSE
5
8' TALL PRIVACY FENCE ALONG REAR PROPERTY
LINE, STEP FENCE WITH GRADE TO MAINTAIN 8'
HEIGHT
6
RAISED PLANTER @ REAR PL, TYP
7
EXTERIOR LIGHTING, TYP. SEE E 2.00 FOR
EXTERIOR LIGHTING PLANS, SCHEDULE & SPECS
8
3-DIMENSIONAL WALL RELIEF PILASTERS
 
APPENDIX A.2 - DESIGN EVOLUTION OF REAR WALL
AXONOMETRIC DETAIL
FINAL EVOLUTION OF REAR WALL DESIGN
CROSS SECTION
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
N. SAN MATEO DR
UNITS
UNITS
AMENITY
PARKING
COURTYARD
PARKING
10' - 0"
71' - 9"
10' - 3"
15' - 7"
12' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 6"
CORR.
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
1
2
2
8' - 9"
1' - 6"
10' - 3"
16' - 3"
13' - 9"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
3/32" = 1'-0"
TRANSVERSE SECTION 2

--- page 308 ---
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
3/32" = 1'-0"
A 3.00
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
 
APPENDIX A.3 - DESIGN EVOLUTION OF PROJECT
PROJECT DESIGN AT SB330 SUBMITTAL
FINAL PROJECT DESIGN

--- page 309 ---
RAMP UP
827 SF
BOILER
47446 SF
PARKING
STAIR 2
ELEV 1
ELEV 2
STAIR 1
FOR PARKING LAYOUT
REFER TO SHEET PK 2.0B
TO PL
2' - 6"
332' - 0" - OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH @ BASEMENT
TO PL
4' - 6"
TO PL
2' - 9"
TO PL
162' - 4"
22' - 1"
179' - 10"
TO PL
2' - 6"
329' - 4"
TO PL
2' - 6"
TO PL
2' - 0"
40' - 8"
291' - 5"
BFPS AND PUMPS
ELEVATOR LOBBY
TO PL
150' - 0"
28'-1"
19'-6"
18'-7"
22'-10"
28'-5"
25'-2"
22'-1"
127'-5"
177'-10"
TO PL
2' - 0"
SECURITY LIGHTING AND 
SURVEILLANCE CAMERS TO BE 
INSTALLED THROUGOUT 
PARKING GARAGE
18" X 30", TYP
TREE 18 - 6x 
ESTIMATED DBH
TREE 20 - 8x 
ESTIMATED DBH
ø 40"
ø 16"
TREE 18 - 6x 
ESTIMATED DBH
ø 40"
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
4' - 0"
3' - 1"
7' - 0"
118' - 7"
41' - 10"
3' - 1"
128' - 6"
14' - 0"
TO PL
16' - 0"
127' - 5"
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
3/32" = 1'-0"
A 2.0B
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
BASEMENT FLOOR PLAN
3/32" = 1'-0"
BASEMENT FLOOR PLAN (DESIGN REVIEW PLANS)
 
APPENDIX A.4 - PARKING PLAN / BICYCLE PARKING
180 parking spaces total
    49 at Ground Floor
    131 at Basement

--- page 310 ---
RAMP DN
V
V
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
ELEV 1
202 SF
FIRE
COMMAND
533 SF
MAIL/PACKAGE
1105 SF
LOBBY
921 SF
COWORKING
782 SF
ND/LEASING
25002 SF
PARKING
ELEV 2
1574 SF
BIKE PARKING
946 SF
TRASH ROOM
175 SF
MUDDY
PAWS
250 SF
POOL EQUIPMENT
1086 SF
MAINTENANCE
656 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C4
668 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
838 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UC
942 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
954 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
773 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
753 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
735 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
741 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1427 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2G
667 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
614 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1237 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2D
65 SF
IDF
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
N SAN MATEO
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
533 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: SB
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
RESIDENTIAL ENTRY
AUTO ENTRY AND EXIT
334' - 0" - OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH @ N. 1ST FLOOR
0' - 3" TO PL
162' - 10" - OVERALL BUILDING DEPTH @ 1ST FLOOR
2' - 0" TO PL
ELECTRIC
89' - 3"
19' - 11"
82' - 3"
87' - 10"
158' - 0"
4' - 6"
21' - 5"
56' - 7"
9' - 4"
10' - 11"
9' - 4"
41' - 2"
178' - 0"
4' - 0"
3' - 2" TO PL
330' - 11"
0' - 3" TO PL
TO PL
16' - 0"
118' - 7"
12' - 0" TO PL
CORRIDOR
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
196 BIKES
TRANSFORMER
TO PL
2' - 0"
MPOE
TO PL
5' - 0"
DERO BIKE FILE (36)
DERO DECKER (70)
DERO DUPLEX (82)
DERO SWERVE 
RACK (8)
1' - 6 1/2"
1' - 6 1/2"
TREE 18 - 6x 
ESTIMATED DBH
TREE 20 - 8x 
ESTIMATED DBH
DN
1303 SF
ELECTRIC
ELECTRIC
SWITCH GEAR
SWITCH GEAR
15'-6"
10'-0"
30'-0"
1
1
21'-1"
23'-0"
38'-1"
23'-0"
45'-10"
220'-5"
94'-5"
109'-3"
8'-10"
9'-6"
47'-6"
KNOX BOX 
LOCATION
(PV 
OVERRIDE)
7'-0"
48'-1"
68'-6"
19'-0"
13'-0"
11'-10"
13'-0"
7'-9"
18'-5"
36'-9"
2
ELEC METER BANKS 
ON EXT WALLS
9' - 4"
0' - 3"
1' - 6 1/2"
2' - 11"
STOOP, TYP.
6' - 0"  TO PL
TO PL
7"
TO PL
3' - 3"
TO PL
8' - 1"
TO PL
4' - 11"
TO PL
7"
TO PL
4' - 3"
TO PL
2' - 2"
TO PL
3' - 2"
TO PL
2' - 4"
193 SF
RESTROOMS
TO PL
2' - 0"
TOOL LOCKER
4' - 0"
2' - 0"
3/8" / 1'-0"
1/8" / 1'-0"
3/4" / 1'-0"
SECURITY GRILLE
SECURITY LIGHTING AND 
SURVEILLANCE CAMERS TO BE 
INSTALLED THROUGOUT 
PARKING GARAGE
FOR PARKING LAYOUT
REFER TO SHEET PK 2.01
ø 40"
ø 16"
4' - 0"
3' - 2"
7' - 0"
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
R 21' - 8"
R 11' - 8"
DN
32' - 11 1/2"
25' - 2 1/4"
12' - 9"
9' - 7 1/2"
50' - 1"
EXTERIOR ACCESSIBLE ROUTE
PROPERTY LINE
45-DEG VISION TRIANGLE
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 2.01
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
1ST FLOOR PLAN
3/32" = 1'-0"
1ST FLOOR PLAN (DESIGN REVIEW PLANS)
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TYPE BREAKDOWN - 1ST FLOOR
UNIT TYPE
AREA
COUNT
STUDIO
533 SF
1
URBAN 1 BED
5789 SF
8
1 BEDROOM
2551 SF
3
2 BEDROOM
2664 SF
2
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TOTALS
11537 SF
14
PLAN NOTES
1
CAST METAL BUILDING SIGNAGE, HT 18", DEPTH 2"
2
FIRE CONTROL ROOM SIGNAGE
 
180 parking spaces total
    49 at Ground Floor
    131 at Basement

--- page 311 ---
1574 SF
BIKE PARKING
196 BIKES TOTAL
17' - 6"
CLR
5' - 0"
8' - 10"
DERO DUPLEX
6' - 3"
DERO DECKER
6' - 3"
BIKE FILE
4' - 3"
CLR
4' - 7"
DERO SWERVE
6' - 3"
36 BIKES
8 BIKES
70 BIKES
82 BIKES
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
1/4" = 1'-0"
BK 2.00
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
BIKE PARKING INFORMATION
1/4" = 1'-0"
1
BIKE ROOM PLAN
BIKE PARKING REQUIREMENTS
UNIT TYPE
COUNT
LONG TERM PARKING COUNT
SHORT TERM PARKING COUNT
STUDIO
9
9
0.45
URBAN 1 BED
37
37
1.85
1 BEDROOM
79
79
3.95
2 BEDROOM
52
65
5.2
3 BEDROOM
4
6
0.6
TOTALS
181
196
12.05
* BIKE PARKING CALCULATED PER SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE SEC. 27.64.262(f)(2)(A)
BICYCLE PARKING SPECIFICATIONS

--- page 312 ---
1ST LEVEL PARKING
PK 2.01
PROMETHEUS
715 N SAN MATEO DR (FORD)
24-106
CLIENT NAME:
PROJECT NAME:
DATE ISSUED:
©  WATRY DESIGN, INC.  2025
PROJECT NUMBER:
SHEET NAME:
SHEET NUMBER:
02-26-25
Date:
E:
P:
Date:
Date:
A:
JC:
Date:
PLOTTED 02-28-25 15:13  tkim  p:\projects\2024\24106 san mateo ford site\2-wdi\4-prod\1-working\2-cad\24106a21alt2.dwg
RAMP DN
BIKEPARKING
1ST LEVEL PARKING
1/16" = 1'-0"
EVCS-L2
LP-L2-R
L2-R
LP-L2-R
LP-L2-R
EVCS-L2
LP-L2-R
UP
PC
PB
PA
P1
P2
P3
ELEV 1
LOBBY
FIRE COMMAND
MAIL/PACKAGE
64'-0"
32'-0"
0
16'-0"
SCALE: 1/16" = 1'-0"
OPEN
22'-9"
DRIVE AISLE
9'-0"
MIN.
8'-0"
9'-0"
MIN.
6'-6"
24'-0"
DRIVE AISLE
18'-0"
STALL
18'-0"
STALL
18'-0"
STALL
24'-0"
DRIVE AISLE
18'-0"
STALL
24'-0"
DRIVE AISLE
18'-0"
STALL
MAINTENANCE
N
N.   S A N   M A T E O
S T A T E   S T R E E T
V I L L A   T E R R A C E
9'-3"
9'-0" MIN.
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-0' MIN.
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
10'-0"
MIN.
12'-0"
9'-6"
9'-0" MIN.
8'-0"
10'-0"
MIN.
3'-0"
22'-0"
DRIVE AISLE
18'-0"
STALL
9'-6"
9'-0" MIN.
3'-0"
18"
T
T
T
T
PLANNING -  DESIGN REVIEW    SUBMITTAL 1  DATE: 04/11/25
 
PARKING PLAN PRIOR TO CREATION OF TREE WELLS - 186 STALLS

--- page 313 ---
BASEMENT LEVEL PARKING
PK 2.0B
PROMETHEUS
715 N SAN MATEO DR (FORD)
24-106
CLIENT NAME:
PROJECT NAME:
DATE ISSUED:
©  WATRY DESIGN, INC.  2025
PROJECT NUMBER:
SHEET NAME:
SHEET NUMBER:
02-26-25
Date:
E:
P:
Date:
Date:
A:
JC:
Date:
PLOTTED 02-28-25 15:13  tkim  p:\projects\2024\24106 san mateo ford site\2-wdi\4-prod\1-working\2-cad\24106a20alt2.dwg
28'-0"
RAMP UP
64'-0"
32'-0"
0
16'-0"
SCALE: 1/16" = 1'-0"
24'-0"
10'-0"
MIN
10'-0"
MIN.
10'-0"
MIN.
10'-0"
9'-0"
MIN.
8'-6"
9'-0"
22'-9"
DRIVE AISLE
17'-0"
STALL
9'-6"
9'-0" MIN.
9'-6"
9'-0" MIN.
8'-0"
22'-0"
DRIVE AISLE
10'-0"
MIN.
2'-6"
TO PL
17'-0"
STALL
18'-0"
STALL
2'-2"
TO PL
142'-0"
9'-0"
MIN.
9'-0"
MIN.
8'-0"
18'-0"
STALL
18'-0"
STALL
24'-0"
DRIVE AISLE
18'-0"
STALL
18'-0"
STALL
24'-0"
DRIVE AISLE
9'-0"
MIN.
8'-6"
9'-0"
MIN.
18'-0"
STALL
T
T
T
9'-0"
MIN.
T
8'-6"
24'-0"
DRIVE AISLE
8'-6"
18'-0"
STALL
24'-0"
DRIVE AISLE
18'-0"
STALL
BASEMENT LEVEL PARKING
1/16" = 1'-0"
N
T
T
22'-0"
DRIVE AISLE
8'-0"
4'-0"
9'-3"
9'-0" MIN.
9'-3"
9'-0" MIN.
8'-6"
9'-0"
MIN.
8'-0"
8'-0"
3'-0"
24'-0"
DRIVE AISLE
9'-0"
MIN.
8'-6"
8'-6"
9'-3"
9'-0" MIN.
9'-3"
9'-0" MIN.
T
9'-0"
3'-0"
8'-6"
8'-6"
3'-0"
T
3'-0"
PC
PB
PA
P1
P2
P3
48977 SF
PARKING
ELEV 1
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
BOILER
ELEV 2
10'-0"
MIN.
24'-0"
PLANNING - 
DESIGN REVIEW
DATE: 4/11/25
PLANNING -  DESIGN REVIEW    SUBMITTAL 1  DATE: 04/11/25
 
PARKING PLAN PRIOR TO CREATION OF TREE WELLS - 186 STALLS

--- page 314 ---
DN
TREES
SYMBOL
BOTANICAL NAME
COMMON NAME
QTY
CALIPER
WUCOLS
TREES
AFROCARPUS GRACILIOR
AFRICAN FERN PINE
6
24" BOX
MODERATE
ARBUTUS X 'MARINA'
MARINA STRAWBERRY TREE STANDARD
4
24" BOX
LOW
CERCIDIUM X 'DESERT MUSEUM'
DESERT MUSEUM PALO VERDE
2
24" BOX
LOW
CERCIS OCCIDENTALIS
WESTERN REDBUD
1
24" BOX
LOW
CHAMAEROPS HUMILIS
MEDITERRANEAN FAN PALM
1
24" BOX
LOW
CORDYLINE AUSTRALIS
GRASS PALM
2
24" BOX
LOW
CUPRESSUS SEMPERVIRENS 'MONSHEL'
TINY TOWER® ITALIAN CYPRESS
1
24" BOX
LOW
DICKSONIA ANTARCTICA
TASMANIAN TREE FERN
3
24" BOX
LOW
FICUS MICROCARPA
INDIAN LAUREL FIG
1
24" BOX
MODERATE
MAGNOLIA GRANDIFLORA 'LITTLE GEM'
LITTLE GEM DWARF SOUTHERN MAGNOLIA
1
24" BOX
MODERATE
MAGNOLIA VIRGINIANA
SWEETBAY MAGNOLIA
1
24" BOX
LOW
OLEA EUROPAEA 'SWAN HILL'
SWAN HILL FRUITLESS OLIVE
1
24" BOX
LOW
PLANT SCHEDULE : LEVEL 2
SHRUBS, PERENNIALS, & GROUNDCOVERS
SYMBOL
SPECIES
QTY
SIZE
WUCOLS
STORMWATER PLANTING
1,523 SF
CORNUS SERICEA 'KELSEYI' / KELSEY'S DWARF RED TWIG DOGWOOD
5 GAL.
HGH
EQUISETUM HYEMALE / HORSETAIL
1 GAL.
HIGH
IRIS DOUGLASIANA / DOUGLAS IRIS
4" POT
MODERATE
JUNCUS PATENS 'ELK BLUE' / SPREADING RUSH
1 GAL.
LOW
LIRIOPE MUSCARI 'MAJESTIC' / MAJESTIC LILYTURF
4" POT
MODERATE
FULL SUN : SHRUBS, PERENNIALS, & GROUNDCOVERS
1,830 SF
ACACIA COGNATA 'ACCOG01' / COUSIN ITT LITTLE RIVER WATTLE
5 GAL.
LOW
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM / COMMON YARROW
1 GAL.
LOW
ANIGOZANTHOS X 'YELLOW GEM' / YELLOW GEM KANGAROO PAW
1 GAL.
LOW
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS DENSIFLORA 'HOWARD MCMINN' / HOWARD MCMINN VINE HILL MANZANITA
1 GAL.
LOW
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS UVA-URSI / KINNIKINNICK
1 GAL.
LOW
BOUTELOUA GRACILIS 'BLONDE AMBITION' / BLONDE AMBITION BLUE GRAMA
1 GAL.
LOW
CEANOTHUS GLORIOSUS 'ANCHOR BAY' / ANCHOR BAY POINT REYES CEANOTHUS
1 GAL.
LOW
CEANOTHUS GRISEUS HORIZONTALIS 'DIAMOND HEIGHTS' / DIAMOND HEIGHTS CARMEL CREEPER
1 GAL.
LOW
DIANELLA REVOLUTA 'DR5000' / LITTLE REV™ FLAX LILY
1 GAL.
MODERATE
DIETES X 'NOLA ALBA' / KATRINA® AFRICAN IRIS
1 GAL.
LOW
ELEGIA ELEPHANTINA / LARGE CAPE RUSH
1 GAL.
LOW
EUPHORBIA CHARACIAS WULFENII / EVERGREEN SPURGE
1 GAL.
LOW
FESTUCA GLAUCA 'ELIJAH BLUE' / ELIJAH BLUE FESCUE
1 GAL.
LOW
FESTUCA MAIREI / ATLAS FESCUE
1 GAL.
LOW
GREVILLEA LANIGERA / WOOLY GREVILLEA
1 GAL.
LOW
GREVILLEA X 'NOELLII' / NOEL GREVILLEA
1 GAL.
LOW
LANTANA MONTEVIDENSIS / PURPLE TRAILING LANTANA
1 GAL.
LOW
LANTANA X 'NEW GOLD' / NEW GOLD LANTANA
1 GAL.
LOW
LOMANDRA LONGIFOLIA 'LM300' / BREEZE™ MAT RUSH
1 GAL.
LOW
OLEA EUROPAEA 'MONTRA' / LITTLE OLLIE® OLIVE
1 GAL.
LOW
PEROVSKIA ATRIPLICIFOLIA 'LISSLITT' / LACEY BLUE RUSSIAN SAGE
1 GAL.
LOW
SALVIA CHAMAEDRYOIDES / GERMANDER SAGE
1 GAL.
LOW
SALVIA CLEVELANDII 'WINNIFRED GILMAN' / WINNIFRED GILMAN CLEVELAND SAGE
1 GAL.
LOW
SALVIA LEUCANTHA 'SANTA BARBARA' / SANTA BARBARA MEXICAN BUSH SAGE
1 GAL.
LOW
SANTOLINA CHAMAECYPARISSUS / LAVENDER COTTON
1 GAL.
LOW
STRELITZIA REGINAE / BIRD OF PARADISE
5 GAL.
MODERATE
WESTRINGIA FRUTICOSA 'WES06' / LOW HORIZON™ COAST ROSEMARY
1 GAL.
LOW
SHADE : SHRUBS, PERENNIALS, & GROUNDCOVERS
2,820 SF
ASPARAGUS DENSIFLORUS 'MYERS' / MYERS ASPARAGUS FERN
1 GAL.
MODERATE
ASPIDISTRA ELATIOR / CAST IRON PLANT
1 GAL.
MODERATE
BERBERIS EURYBRACTEATA 'SOFT CARESS' / SOFT CARESS MAHONIA
5 GAL.
LOW
CAREX DIVULSA / EUROPEAN GREY SEDGE
1 GAL.
LOW
CHONDROPETALUM ELEPHANTINUM / LARGE CAPE RUSH
1 GAL.
MODERATE
DAPHNE ODORA / WINTER DAPHNE
1 GAL.
MODERATE
DIANELLA CAERULEA 'DCNC0' / BECCA™ FLAX LILY
1 GAL.
MODERATE
DIANELLA TASMANICA 'VARIEGATA' / VARIEGATED FLAX LILY
1 GAL.
MODERATE
LIRIOPE MUSCARI 'MAJESTIC' / MAJESTIC LILYTURF
1 GAL.
MODERATE
PHILODENDRON X 'DANADU' / DANADU CUT-LEAF PHILODENDRON
1 GAL.
MODERATE
PITTOSPORUM TENUIFOLIUM 'SILVER SHEEN' / SILVER SHEEN TAWHIWHI
1 GAL.
MODERATE
PYRROSIA X 'MONBRTS' / JURASSIC™ BRONTOSAURUS TONGUE FERN
1 GAL.
MODERATE
SARCOCOCCA HOOKERIANA HUMILIS / TRAILING SWEETBOX
1 GAL.
LOW
SARCOCOCCA RUSCIFOLIA / FRAGRANT SWEETBOX
5 GAL.
LOW
VIBURNUM AWABUKI 'CHINDO' / CHINDO SWEET VIBURNUM
1 GAL.
MODERATE
WOODWARDIA FIMBRIATA / GIANT CHAIN FERN
1 GAL.
MODERATE
SUCCULENTS
61 SF
AGAVE ATTENUATA / FOXTAIL AGAVE
5 GAL.
LOW
AGAVE BRACTEOSA 'CALAMAR' / CALAMAR SPIDER AGAVE
1 GAL.
LOW
AGAVE VILMORINIANA / OCTOPUS AGAVE
5 GAL.
LOW
ALOE X 'LEO 3711' / SUPER RED® ALOE
1 GAL.
LOW
BULBINE FRUTESCENS 'ORANGE' / ORANGE BULBINE
1 GAL.
LOW
DASYLIRION WHEELERI / GREY DESERT SPOON
5 GAL.
LOW
HESPERALOE PARVIFLORA 'PERPA' / BRAKELIGHTS® RED YUCCA
1 GAL.
LOW
SENECIO TALINOIDES MANDRALISCAE / BLUE CHALK STICKS
1 GAL.
LOW
YUCCA GLORIOSA TRISTIS 'WALBRISTAR' / BRIGHT STAR SOFT LEAF YUCCA
1 GAL.
LOW
YUCCA ROSTRATA / BEAKED YUCCA
5 GAL.
LOW
X MANGAVE X 'NAVAJO PRINCESS' / NAVAJO PRINCESS MANGAVE
1 GAL.
LOW
OTHER
70 SF
VEGETABLE PLANTERS
SPECIES TBD PER OWNER
N/A
N/A
1.
SEE SHEETS L-151A AND L-151B FOR PLANTING NOTES.
NOTES
SYMBOL
SPECIES
QTY
SIZE
WUCOLS
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN: WP/NV
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
11/03/2025
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
CHECKED: JB
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
350 SE Mill Street   Suite 02
Portland, OR 97214
0
SCALE 1"=10'
0
5
30
50FT
0
20
0
10
08-31-26
11-04-25
L-152
PLANTING PLAN
LEVEL 2
 
APPENDIX A.5 - LANDSCAPE PLAN

--- page 315 ---
N SAN MATEO
STREET TREES
Silver Oak (Quercus hypoleucoides)
Expected Height: 35’-60’ 
Expected Width: 20’-40’
TREE ALTERNATES
London Planetree (Platanus acerifolia)
Expected Height: 60’-70’
Expected Width: 60’-70’
Chinese Pistache (Pistacia chinensis ‘Keith Davey’)
Expected Height: 30’-50’ 
Expected Width: 30’-45’
 
APPENDIX A.6 - STREET TREES

--- page 316 ---
N SAN MATEO
STREET TREES
STREETSCAPE STANDARD TREE
Pink Trumpet Tree (Handroanthus heptaphyllus)
Expected Height: 25’-35’ 
Expected Width: 25’-40’

--- page 317 ---
RAMP DN
V
V
V
V
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
ELEV 1
202 SF
FIRE
COMMAND
536 SF
MAIL/PACKAGE
1046 SF
LOBBY
921 SF
COWORKING
816 SF
ND/LEASING
25002 SF
PARKING
ELEV 2
1574 SF
BIKE PARKING
946 SF
TRASH ROOM
175 SF
MUDDY
PAWS
250 SF
POOL EQUIPMENT
1086 SF
MAINTENANCE
656 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C4
668 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
838 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UC
942 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
954 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
773 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
753 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
735 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
741 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1427 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2G
667 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
614 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1237 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2D
66 SF
IDF
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
N SAN MATEO
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
533 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: SB
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
RESIDENTIAL ENTRY
AUTO ENTRY AND EXIT
334' - 0" - OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH @ N. 1ST FLOOR
0' - 3" TO PL
162' - 10" - OVERALL BUILDING DEPTH @ 1ST FLOOR
2' - 0" TO PL
ELECTRIC
89' - 3"
19' - 11"
82' - 3"
158' - 0"
4' - 6"
148' - 10"
178' - 0"
4' - 0"
3' - 2" TO PL
330' - 11"
0' - 3" TO PL
30' - 8"
5' - 9"
23' - 2"
72' - 11"
TO PL
16' - 0"
118' - 7"
12' - 0" TO PL
CORRIDOR
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
196 BIKES
TRANSFORMER
TO PL
2' - 0"
MPOE
TO PL
5' - 0"
DERO BIKE FILE (36)
DERO DECKER (70)
DERO DUPLEX (82)
DERO SWERVE
RACK (8)
1' - 6 1/2"
1' - 6 1/2"
TREE 18 - 6x
ESTIMATED DBH
TREE 20 - 10x
ESTIMATED DBH
DN
1303 SF
ELECTRIC
ELECTRIC
SWITCH GEAR
SWITCH GEAR
15'-6"
10'-0"
30'-0"
1
1
21'-1"
23'-0"
38'-1"
23'-0"
45'-10"
220'-5"
94'-5"
109'-3"
8'-10"
9'-6"
47'-6"
KNOX BOX
LOCATION
(PV
OVERRIDE)
7'-0"
34'-5"
48'-4"
16'-9"
22'-10"
68'-6"
19'-0"
13'-0"
11'-10"
13'-0"
7'-9"
18'-5"
37'-1"
2
ELEC METER BANKS
ON EXT WALLS
21' - 5"
13' - 11"
9' - 4"
0' - 3"
1' - 6 1/2"
2' - 11"
STOOP, TYP.
6' - 0"  TO PL
TO PL
7"
TO PL
3' - 3"
TO PL
8' - 1"
TO PL
4' - 11"
TO PL
7"
TO PL
4' - 3"
TO PL
2' - 2"
TO PL
3' - 2"
TO PL
2' - 4"
193 SF
RESTROOMS
TO PL
2' - 0"
TOOL LOCKER
4' - 0"
2' - 0"
3/8" / 1'-0"
1/8" / 1'-0"
3/4" / 1'-0"
SECURITY GRILLE
SECURITY LIGHTING AND
SURVEILLANCE CAMERS TO BE
INSTALLED THROUGOUT
PARKING GARAGE
FOR PARKING LAYOUT
REFER TO SHEET PK 2.01
ø 40"
ø 16"
4' - 0"
3' - 2"
7' - 0"
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
R 21' - 8"
R 11' - 8"
HOT/COLD
HOSE BIB, SEE NOTE 11
F.D
3CY LOOSE  THRU
WALL
RECYCLE
3CY LOOSE
WASTE
3CY LOOSE
THRU - WALL
WASTE
6'-8"
3'-6"
6'-6"
3'-11"
AIR COMPRESSOR, WALL MOUNTED
SEE NOTE 9
SERVICE OUTLET,
SEE NOTE 9
4'-11"
3'-2"
3'-6"
14'-0" ROLL-UP DOOR
29'-4"
CHUTE MASTER
CONTROL, SEE NOTE 8
120V 15A SERVICE OUTLET. (TYP)
3'-4" WIDE
NFPA
COMPLIANT
EGRESS
DOOR
R
W
UNDEDICATED 120V 15A
SERVICE OUTLET. (TYP)
120V 15A SERVICE
OUTLET. (TYP), SEE NOTE, 10
ODOR CONTROL,
SEE NOTE, 10
3CY LOOSE  THRU
WALL
RECYCLE
3CY LOOSE  THRU
WALL
RECYCLE
3CY LOOSE  THRU
WALL
RECYCLE
3CY LOOSE
THRU - WALL
WASTE
2CY LOOSE
COMPOST
7'-1"
ADA FRONT APPROACH
(2) SELF CLOSING, 18 x 18 SH AUTOMATIC
OPENING DOOR, PER CBC
COMPOST
MT20 22" x 45.5" ELECTRIC
PALLET TRUCK
3'-0" ACCESS
DOOR
8'-3"
12'-2"
10'-3"
24'-4"
ADA FRONT APPROACH
3CY LOOSE
THRU - WALL
WASTE
25'-0"
7'-4"
SHEET NOTES:
TRASH ROUTE / STAGING PLAN. GROUND LEVEL.
1.
STAFF TO MOVE BINS TO TRASH STAGING AREA WITH MT20 22" x 45.5" ELECTRIC PALLET TRUCK.
GENERAL NOTES.
1.
ANY DESIGNS OR SOLUTIONS SHOWN IN DRAWING, EITHER DIRECT OR IMPLIED, ARE HEREBY CLARIFIED AS EXAMPLES AND SHALL
NOT BE CONSIDERED COMPLETE DESIGNS FOR CONSTRUCTION. THESE DRAWINGS ARE INTENDED TO SUPPLEMENT THE SUBMITTAL
PACKAGE FROM ARCHITECT.
2.
ANY PARTIAL INFORMATION, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURATE DESCRIPTIONS OF WORK SHOWN IN DRAWINGS, WHICH ARE NECESSARY
TO PERFORM THE SCOPE OF WORK, SHALL NOT RELIEVE THE CONTRACTOR FROM COMPLETION OF WORK. ALL WORK SHALL BE
PERFORMED TO SATISFY THE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS OF THE CURRENT APPLICABLE BUILDING CODES.
3.
CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD VERIFY ALL DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS PRIOR TO START OF CONSTRUCTION. THE ARCHITECT SHALL
BE PROMPTLY NOTIFIED OF ANY INCONSISTENCIES AND/OR DISCREPANCIES.
PATH OF TRAVEL LEGEND.
STAFF PATH OF TRAVEL FROM RESIDENTIAL TRASH ROOM TO
TRASH STAGING AREA.
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
PK, DU
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
11.07.2025
 3/32" = 1'-0"
TR0.1
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
TRASH ROUTE/STAGING
PLAN 1 LEVEL1
1/16" = 1'-0"
TRASH ROUTE /SERVICE PLAN - LEVEL 1
TRASH COLLECTION ROOM
FL TRUCK SERVICE
HAULER TO  TO PULL/ADJUST BINS FROM STAGING TO
TRUCK FOR SERVICE.
 
APPENDIX A.7 - TRASH MANAGEMENT PLAN

--- page 318 ---
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
G 0.02
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
(N) SITE PLAN OVER
SATELLITE IMAGE
1/64" = 1'-0"
SITE PLAN OF 715 N SAN MATEO DR. OVER SATELLITE IMAGE
N SAN MATEO DR
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
HIGHLAND AVE
NORTH
 
EXCERPTS FROM FULL PLAN SET

--- page 319 ---
RAMP UP
827 SF
BOILER
47446 SF
PARKING
STAIR 2
ELEV 1
ELEV 2
STAIR 1
FOR PARKING LAYOUT
REFER TO SHEET PK 2.0B
TO PL
2' - 6"
332' - 0" - OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH @ BASEMENT
TO PL
4' - 6"
TO PL
2' - 9"
TO PL
162' - 4"
22' - 1"
179' - 10"
TO PL
2' - 6"
329' - 4"
TO PL
2' - 6"
TO PL
2' - 0"
40' - 8"
291' - 5"
BFPS AND PUMPS
ELEVATOR LOBBY
TO PL
150' - 0"
28'-1"
19'-6"
18'-7"
22'-10"
28'-5"
25'-2"
22'-1"
127'-5"
177'-10"
TO PL
2' - 0"
SECURITY LIGHTING AND 
SURVEILLANCE CAMERS TO BE 
INSTALLED THROUGOUT 
PARKING GARAGE
18" X 30", TYP
TREE 18 - 6x 
ESTIMATED DBH
TREE 20 - 8x 
ESTIMATED DBH
ø 40"
ø 16"
TREE 18 - 6x 
ESTIMATED DBH
ø 40"
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
4' - 0"
3' - 1"
7' - 0"
118' - 7"
41' - 10"
3' - 1"
128' - 6"
14' - 0"
TO PL
16' - 0"
127' - 5"
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
3/32" = 1'-0"
A 2.0B
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
BASEMENT FLOOR PLAN
3/32" = 1'-0"
BASEMENT FLOOR PLAN (DESIGN REVIEW PLANS)

--- page 320 ---
RAMP DN
V
V
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
ELEV 1
202 SF
FIRE
COMMAND
533 SF
MAIL/PACKAGE
1105 SF
LOBBY
921 SF
COWORKING
782 SF
ND/LEASING
25002 SF
PARKING
ELEV 2
1574 SF
BIKE PARKING
946 SF
TRASH ROOM
175 SF
MUDDY
PAWS
250 SF
POOL EQUIPMENT
1086 SF
MAINTENANCE
656 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C4
668 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
838 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UC
942 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
954 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
773 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
753 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
735 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
741 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1427 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2G
667 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
614 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1237 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2D
65 SF
IDF
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
N SAN MATEO
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
533 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: SB
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
RESIDENTIAL ENTRY
AUTO ENTRY AND EXIT
334' - 0" - OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH @ N. 1ST FLOOR
0' - 3" TO PL
162' - 10" - OVERALL BUILDING DEPTH @ 1ST FLOOR
2' - 0" TO PL
ELECTRIC
89' - 3"
19' - 11"
82' - 3"
87' - 10"
158' - 0"
4' - 6"
21' - 5"
56' - 7"
9' - 4"
10' - 11"
9' - 4"
41' - 2"
178' - 0"
4' - 0"
3' - 2" TO PL
330' - 11"
0' - 3" TO PL
TO PL
16' - 0"
118' - 7"
12' - 0" TO PL
CORRIDOR
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
196 BIKES
TRANSFORMER
TO PL
2' - 0"
MPOE
TO PL
5' - 0"
DERO BIKE FILE (36)
DERO DECKER (70)
DERO DUPLEX (82)
DERO SWERVE 
RACK (8)
1' - 6 1/2"
1' - 6 1/2"
TREE 18 - 6x 
ESTIMATED DBH
TREE 20 - 8x 
ESTIMATED DBH
DN
1303 SF
ELECTRIC
ELECTRIC
SWITCH GEAR
SWITCH GEAR
15'-6"
10'-0"
30'-0"
1
1
21'-1"
23'-0"
38'-1"
23'-0"
45'-10"
220'-5"
94'-5"
109'-3"
8'-10"
9'-6"
47'-6"
KNOX BOX 
LOCATION
(PV 
OVERRIDE)
7'-0"
48'-1"
68'-6"
19'-0"
13'-0"
11'-10"
13'-0"
7'-9"
18'-5"
36'-9"
2
ELEC METER BANKS 
ON EXT WALLS
9' - 4"
0' - 3"
1' - 6 1/2"
2' - 11"
STOOP, TYP.
6' - 0"  TO PL
TO PL
7"
TO PL
3' - 3"
TO PL
8' - 1"
TO PL
4' - 11"
TO PL
7"
TO PL
4' - 3"
TO PL
2' - 2"
TO PL
3' - 2"
TO PL
2' - 4"
193 SF
RESTROOMS
TO PL
2' - 0"
TOOL LOCKER
4' - 0"
2' - 0"
3/8" / 1'-0"
1/8" / 1'-0"
3/4" / 1'-0"
SECURITY GRILLE
SECURITY LIGHTING AND 
SURVEILLANCE CAMERS TO BE 
INSTALLED THROUGOUT 
PARKING GARAGE
FOR PARKING LAYOUT
REFER TO SHEET PK 2.01
ø 40"
ø 16"
4' - 0"
3' - 2"
7' - 0"
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
R 21' - 8"
R 11' - 8"
DN
32' - 11 1/2"
25' - 2 1/4"
12' - 9"
9' - 7 1/2"
50' - 1"
EXTERIOR ACCESSIBLE ROUTE
PROPERTY LINE
45-DEG VISION TRIANGLE
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 2.01
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
1ST FLOOR PLAN
3/32" = 1'-0"
1ST FLOOR PLAN (DESIGN REVIEW PLANS)
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TYPE BREAKDOWN - 1ST FLOOR
UNIT TYPE
AREA
COUNT
STUDIO
533 SF
1
URBAN 1 BED
5789 SF
8
1 BEDROOM
2551 SF
3
2 BEDROOM
2664 SF
2
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TOTALS
11537 SF
14
PLAN NOTES
1
CAST METAL BUILDING SIGNAGE, HT 18", DEPTH 2"
2
FIRE CONTROL ROOM SIGNAGE

--- page 321 ---
DN
COURTYARD
POOL
SPA
WALKWAY ABOVE
WALKWAY ABOVE
LINE OF BLDG ABOVE
1034 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A2
606 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: S
588 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C1
743 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
857 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
858 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
857 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
708 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C2
692 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
634 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
731 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
1108 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A1
742 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
1983 SF
AMENITY/GYM
1184 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C3
767 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
740 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
757 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
756 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
755 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
877 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
672 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
672 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
CORRIDOR
ELEV 1
26 SF
IDF
1500 SF
3 BEDROOM
TYPE: 3A
977 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C1
965 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C1
703 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1B1
1148 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2B2
1092 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C4
1066 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2B3
690 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
STAIR 2
672 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
101 SF
TRASH RM W/ CHUTE
55 SF
IDF
ELEV 2
STAIR 3
N SAN MATEO
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
OPEN TO BELOW
STAIR 1
337' - 5" - OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH @ 2ND FLOOR
1' - 7" TO PL
0' - 2" TO PL
154' - 10" - OVERALL BUILDING DEPTH @ 2ND FLOOR
10' - 0" TO PL
9' - 8"
25' - 6"
7' - 6"
46' - 7"
20' - 0"
82' - 3"
50' - 1"
57' - 0"
3' - 1"
35' - 10"
31' - 4"
5' - 5"
35' - 0"
30' - 9"
34' - 3"
82' - 3"
10' - 5"
63' - 1"
34' - 11"
9' - 11"
36' - 8"
4' - 8"
18' - 3"
93' - 0" TO PL
36' - 2"
35' - 8"
30' - 0"
9' - 10"
37' - 6"
48' - 0"
98' - 6"
9' - 0"
260' - 2"
74' - 2" TO PL
10' - 0" TO PL
136' - 8"
71' - 10"
37' - 11"
38' - 5"
23' - 2"
10' - 3"
39' - 8"
10' - 0"
TO PL
5' - 9"
10' - 2"
GYM
WC
CANOPY
CANOPY
LINE OF 
BUILDING 
BELOW
8'-11"
9'-8"
64'-10"
29'-1"
7'-0"
24' - 7"
6' - 11"
7'-4"
7'-4"
16' - 3"
10' - 0"
11' - 6"
10' - 0"
11' - 2"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
11' - 2"
41' - 0"
35' - 9"
44' - 8"
39' - 8"
41' - 0"
41' - 4"
36' - 1"
44' - 8"
39' - 8"
BUILDING SEPARATION LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 2.02
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
2ND FLOOR PLAN
3/32" = 1'-0"
2ND FLOOR PLAN (DESIGN REVIEW PLANS)
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TYPE BREAKDOWN - 2ND FLOOR
UNIT TYPE
AREA
COUNT
STUDIO
606 SF
1
URBAN 1 BED
4034 SF
6
1 BEDROOM
11438 SF
15
2 BEDROOM
8575 SF
8
3 BEDROOM
1500 SF
1
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TOTALS
26153 SF
31

--- page 322 ---
1491 SF
3 BEDROOM
TYPE: 3A
977 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C1
965 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C1
699 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1B1
1152 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2B2
1092 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C4
1066 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2B3
1034 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A2
1179 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C3
607 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: S
582 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C1
766 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
743 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
858 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
740 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
758 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
756 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
857 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
858 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
785 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C2
669 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
632 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
733 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
1099 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A1
755 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
876 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
673 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
673 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
675 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
1062 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C2
982 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A3
1101 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2B1
643 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
673 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
742 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
CORRIDOR
29 SF
IDF
ELEV 1
99 SF
TRASH RM W/ CHUTE
55 SF
IDF
ELEV 2
COURTYARD BELOW
N SAN MATEO
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
STAIR 3
EXTERIOR WALKWAY
EXTERIOR WALKWAY
9' - 8"
25' - 6"
7' - 6"
46' - 7"
20' - 0"
82' - 3"
50' - 1"
57' - 0"
3' - 1"
35' - 10"
30' - 0"
9' - 10"
37' - 6"
48' - 0"
98' - 6"
14' - 4"
9' - 10"
47' - 8"
212' - 10"
9' - 0"
41' - 0"
337' - 5" - OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH @ 3RD FLOOR
1' - 7" TO PL
0' - 2" TO PL
154' - 10" - OVERALL BUILDING DEPTH @ 3RD FLOOR
10' - 0" TO PL
31' - 4"
5' - 5"
35' - 0"
30' - 9"
34' - 3"
82' - 3"
10' - 5"
63' - 1"
34' - 11"
9' - 11"
36' - 8"
4' - 8"
18' - 3"
93' - 1" TO PL
29' - 11"
6' - 3"
35' - 8"
260' - 2"
74' - 2" TO PL
10' - 0" TO PL
136' - 8"
TO PL
5' - 9"
23' - 2"
10' - 3"
39' - 8"
10' - 0"
8'-11"
9'-8"
16' - 3"
44' - 8"
39' - 8"
44' - 8"
20' - 6"
20' - 6"
22' - 10"
18' - 0"
17' - 10"
18' - 0"
24' - 10"
19' - 10"
19' - 10"
19' - 10"
BUILDING SEPARATION LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 2.03
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
3RD FLOOR PLAN
3/32" = 1'-0"
3RD FLOOR PLAN (DESIGN REVIEW PLANS)
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TYPE BREAKDOWN - 3RD FLOOR
UNIT TYPE
AREA
COUNT
STUDIO
607 SF
1
URBAN 1 BED
4638 SF
7
1 BEDROOM
11509 SF
15
2 BEDROOM
11709 SF
11
3 BEDROOM
1491 SF
1
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TOTALS
29954 SF
35

--- page 323 ---
COURTYARD BELOW
EXTERIOR WALKWAY
EXTERIOR WALKWAY
750 SF
SKY LOUNGE
85 SF
ADA BA
1164 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C3
766 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
740 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
757 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
755 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
755 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
755 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A1
1061 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C2
982 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2A3
669 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
632 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
733 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
814 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C3
571 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: S
761 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A3
570 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: S
597 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C1
743 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
857 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
858 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
860 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
642 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C2
742 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
982 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C1
961 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2C1
688 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1B1
1045 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2E
588 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: S
581 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: S
986 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2F
31 SF
IDF
ELEV 1
ELEV 2
63 SF
IDF
1240 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2H
N SAN MATEO
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
CORRIDOR
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
STAIR 3
334' - 0" - OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH @ 6TH FLOOR
5' - 0" TO PL
0' - 2" TO PL
154' - 10" - OVERALL BUILDING DEPTH @ 6TH FLOOR
10' - 0" TO PL
46' - 7"
20' - 0"
82' - 3"
50' - 1"
57' - 0"
30' - 6"
10' - 0" TO PL
25' - 6"
6' - 2"
35' - 0"
30' - 9"
11' - 7"
21' - 2"
93' - 1" TO PL
9' - 8"
20' - 4"
37' - 11"
38' - 5"
30' - 0"
9' - 10"
37' - 6"
146' - 6"
14' - 4"
9' - 10"
37' - 10"
9' - 9"
41' - 0"
44' - 8"
2' - 6" TO PL
225' - 0"
TO PL
106' - 10"
5' - 0" TO PL
29' - 8"
47' - 7"
10' - 5"
63' - 1"
34' - 11"
36' - 10"
35' - 5"
189' - 8"
5' - 0" TO PL
131' - 7"
10' - 0" TO PL
111 SF
TRASH RM W/ CHUTE
5' - 7" TO PL
37' - 1"
TO PL
23' - 5"
20' - 0"
44' - 8"
5' - 0"
TO PL
5' - 9"
8'-7"
8'-0"
36'-2"
18'-8"
9'-8"
18' - 8"
11' - 6"
10' - 0"
11' - 2"
30' - 7"
44' - 7"
38' - 6"
29' - 11"
35' - 0"
34' - 11"
BUILDING SEPARATION LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 2.06
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
6TH FLOOR PLAN
3/32" = 1'-0"
6TH FLOOR PLAN (DESIGN REVIEW PLANS)
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TYPE BREAKDOWN - 6TH FLOOR
UNIT TYPE
AREA
COUNT
STUDIO
2310 SF
4
URBAN 1 BED
1301 SF
2
1 BEDROOM
12008 SF
16
2 BEDROOM
9237 SF
9
RESIDENTIAL UNIT TOTALS
24855 SF
31

--- page 324 ---
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
SAN MATEO DRIVE
STATE ST
VILLA TERRACE
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025G 0.03
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
SHADOW STUDIES - OVERALL
1
WINTER SOLSTICE - 9AM
2
WINTER SOLSTICE - 11AM
3
WINTER SOLSTICE - 1PM
4
WINTER SOLSTICE - 3PM
5
WINTER SOLSTICE - 5PM
6
SPRING/FALL EQUINOX - 9AM
7
SPRING/FALL EQUINOX - 11AM
8
SPRING/FALL EQUINOX - 1PM
9
SPRING/FALL EQUINOX - 3PM
10 SPRING/FALL EQUINOX - 5PM
11 SUMMER SOLSTICE - 9AM
12 SUMMER SOLSTICE - 11AM
13 SUMMER SOLSTICE - 1PM
14 SUMMER SOLSTICE - 3PM
15 SUMMER SOLSTICE - 5PM

--- page 325 ---
7
3
1
8
10
8
2
5
2
7
6
3
2
1
3
6
8
8
5
2
6
1
10
STUCCO
1
THIN BRICK CLADDING
2
WOOD APPEARANCE CLADDING
3
4
STUCCO
6
THIN BRICK CLADDING
7
GALVANIZED & PAINTED STEEL 
RAILINGS
8
BIRD-SAFE GLASS 
RAILING/WINDSCREEN
9
5
VINYL RESIDENTIAL WINDOW & 
DOOR SYSTEMS
10
COMMERCIAL GARAGE DOORS
COMMERCIAL STOREFRONT 
SYSTEMS
7
3
5
8
1
6
8
10
4
2
8
6
10
3
1
6
2
9
9
4
1
2
8
5
7
9
3
6
6
7
6
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
G 0.06
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
MATERIAL PALETTE
3/64" = 1'-0"
EAST ELEVATION - MATERIAL PALETTE
3/64" = 1'-0"
EAST ELEVATION - COURTYARD - MATERIAL PALETTE
3/64" = 1'-0"
SOUTH ELEVATION - MATERIAL PALETTE
3/64" = 1'-0"
NORTH ELEVATION - MATERIAL PALETTE
ALL MATERIALS AND FINISHES ARE SUBJECT TO SUBSTITUTION WITH 
SIMILAR DUE TO COST AND AVAILABILITY AT THE TIME OF CONSTRUCTION.

--- page 326 ---
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025G 0.07
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
MATERIAL PALETTE
WOOD APPEARANCE CLADDING
MILLBOARD - SHADOW LINE+ - GOLDEN OAK
3
THIN BRICK CLADDING
H.C. MUDDOX - TULE FOG, WIRE CUT
2
THIN BRICK CLADDING
H.C. MUDDOX - EBONY, WIRE CUT
7
STUCCO
TO MATCH: SHERWIN WILLIAMS - SHOJI WHITE, 
SW 7042 
1
STUCCO
TO MATCH: SHERWIN WILLIAMS -
GAUNTLET GRAY, SW 7019
6
PAINTED STEEL RAILINGS 
TO MATCH: SHERWIN WILLIAMS - TRICORN 
BLACK, SW 6258
5
8
10
ALL MATERIALS AND FINISHES ARE SUBJECT TO SUBSTITUTION WITH 
SIMILAR DUE TO COST AND AVAILABILITY AT THE TIME OF CONSTRUCTION.
RESIDENTIAL WINDOW/DOOR SYSTEMS
VPI QUALITY WINDOWS - BLACK
COMMERCIAL STOREFRONT SYSTEMS
VPI QUALITY WINDOWS - BLACK

--- page 327 ---
CORNICE
METAL AWNING 
CORNICE
OVERHANG 
RECESSED ROOM
5 UNITS
RECESSED ROOM
5 UNITS
RECESSED ROOM
5 UNITS
RECESSED ROOM
5 UNITS
RECESSED ROOM
5 UNITS
RECESSED ROOMS
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOMS
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOMS
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
5 UNITS
RECESSED ROOM
5 UNITS
2' - 0" TYP.
CORNICE
OVERHANG 
N SAN MATEO 
(EAST) FACADE
80 TOTAL UNITS 
48 UNITS WITH 
RECESSED 
ROOM/ROOMS 
60% OF UNITS WITH 
RECESSED 
ROOM/ROOMS
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
CORNICE
OVERHANG
RECESSED ROOM
5 UNITS
RECESSED ROOMS
3 UNITS
RECESSED ROOMS
1 UNIT
STATE ST 
(NORTH) FACADE
18 TOTAL UNITS 
9 UNITS WITH 
RECESSED 
ROOM/ROOM 
50% OF UNITS WITH 
RECESSED 
ROOM/ROOMS
CORNICE
OVERHANG
AWNING   
VILLA TERRACE
(SOUTH) FACADE
13 TOTAL UNITS 
5 UNITS WITH 
RECESSED 
ROOM/ROOMS 
38.5% OF UNITS WITH 
RECESSED 
ROOM/ROOMS
RECESSED ROOMS
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOMS
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
RECESSED ROOM
1 UNIT
4.1.2 ARTICULATION DETAILS
CITY OF SAN MATEO   |   OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS
SUMMARY - % OF UNITS WITH RECESSED ROOMS
N SAN MATEO (EAST) FACADE
60%  /  48 UNITS
VILLA TERRACE (SOUTH) FACADE
38.5%   /  5 UNITS
STATE ST (NORTH) FACADE
50%   /  9 UNITS
LEGEND
A.  ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTSIONS NOTED IN PURPLE 
RECESSED ROOM
UNIT DEMISING WALL
E. RECESSED ROOMS NOTED IN ELEVATION AND TYP. 
FLOOR PLANS:
5' - 2" RECESS TYP.
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
2' - 0"
4' - 8"
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
RECESSED  
KITCHEN/LIVING/DINING
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
4' - 8"
3' - 11"
6' - 0" RECESS TYP.
RECESSED 
LIVING ROOM
RECESSED 
LIVING ROOM
RECESSED 
LIVING ROOM
RECESSED 
LIVING ROOM
RECESSED 
LIVING ROOM
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
RECESSED 
LIVING ROOM
RECESSED 
BEDROOM
RECESSED 
LIVING ROOM
RECESSED 
LIVING ROOM
1' - 9"
RECESSED  
KITCHEN/LIVING/
DINING
RECESSED  
KITCHEN/LIVING/
DINING
METAL AWNING ABOVE
7' - 10"
OVERHANG ABOVE
OVERHANG ABOVE
4' - 10"
4.1.3 BUILDING MATERIALS 
& COLOR
CITY OF SAN MATEO   |   OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS
LEGEND
CREAM STUCCO
GREY STUCCO
CREAM THIN BRICK CLADDING
GREY THIN BRICK CLADDING
WOOD APPEARANCE CLADDING
REVEAL AT MATERIAL 
CHANGE TYP.
BANDING AT 
MATERIAL CHANGE
PLANE CHANGE AT 
MATERIAL CHANGE 
TYP.
CREAM STUCCO 
42% OF EAST FACADE
GREY STUCCO 
17% OF EAST FACADE
WOOD-LOOK SIDING
10% OF EAST FACADE
CREAM BRICK
14% OF EAST FACADE
GREY BRICK
17% OF EAST FACADE
PLANE CHANGE AT 
MATERIAL CHANGE, 
TYP. 
TYP.
3' - 6"
BLACK PAINTED STEEL 
RAILINGS, TYP.
SLATS TO BE AT LEAST 
50% VISUALLY OPEN
BLACK PAINTED STEEL RAILINGS, TYP.
SLATS TO BE AT LEAST 50% VISUALLY OPEN
TYP.
3' - 6"
REVEAL AT MATERIAL 
CHANGE TYP.
BANDING AT 
MATERIAL CHANGE
PLANE CHANGE AT 
MATERIAL CHANGE
CREAM STUCCO 
44% OF NORTH FACADE
GREY STUCCO 
21% OF NORTH FACADE
CREAM BRICK
21% OF NORTH FACADE
GREY BRICK
14% OF NORTH FACADE
PLANE CHANGE AT 
MATERIAL CHANGE 
REVEAL AT MATERIAL 
CHANGE TYP.
BANDING AT 
MATERIAL CHANGE
PLANE CHANGE AT 
MATERIAL CHANGE 
TYP.
CREAM STUCCO 
42% OF SOUTH FACADE
GREY STUCCO 
24% OF SOUTH FACADE
WOOD-LOOK SIDING
10% OF SOUTH FACADE
CREAM BRICK
24% OF SOUTH FACADE
4.1.6 MASSING BREAKS -
MID-RISE BUILDINGS
CITY OF SAN MATEO   |   OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS
LEGEND
3.  SPECIAL TREATMENTS AT BUILDING CORNER NOTED IN 
PURPLE 
N SAN MATEO DR
VILLA TERRACE
MATERIAL 
CHANGE
MATERIAL 
CHANGE
RECESS
BANDING 
DETAIL
BANDING 
DETAIL
RECESSED 
CORNER 
BALCONIES
STATE ST
N SAN MATEO DR
MATERIAL 
CHANGE
RECESS
MATERIAL 
CHANGE
BANDING 
DETAIL
RECESSED 
CORNER 
BALCONIES
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
G 0.08
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
ODS DIAGRAMS
1" = 20'-0"
N SAN MATEO (EAST) ELEVATION - RECESSED ROOMS
1" = 20'-0"
STATE ST (NORTH) ELEVATION - RECESSED ROOMS
1" = 20'-0"
VILLA TERRACE (SOUTH) ELEVATION - RECESSED ROOMS
1" = 20'-0"
TYPICAL FLOOR PLAN - EAST ELEVATION
1" = 20'-0"
1ST FLOOR PLAN - EAST ELEVATION
1" = 30'-0"
N SAN MATEO (EAST) ELEVATION - MATERIAL & COLOR
1" = 30'-0"
STATE ST (NORTH) ELEVATION - MATERIAL & COLOR
1" = 30'-0"
VILLA TERRACE (SOUTH) ELEVATION - MATERIAL AND COLOR
VILLA TERRACE & N SAN MATEO DR - NE AXON
STATE ST & N SAN MATEO DR - NW AXON

--- page 328 ---
4.1.6 MASSING BREAKS -
MID-RISE BUILDINGS
CITY OF SAN MATEO   |   OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS
SUMMARY 
N SAN MATEO (EAST) FACADE
10 MAIN SEGMENTS OVER 337' - 5"
33'- 9" AVERAGE MAIN SEGMENT LENGTH
VILLA TERRACE (SOUTH) FACADE
6 MAIN SEGMENTS OVER 122' - 2"
20'- 4" AVERAGE MAIN SEGMENT LENGTH
STATE ST (NORTH) FACADE
5 MAIN SEGMENTS OVER 136' - 8"
26'- 9" AVERAGE MAIN SEGMENT LENGTH
LEGEND
MAIN BUILDING SEGMENT
BUILDING SUBSEGMENT
*DUE TO THE LENGTH OF EAST FACADE (337' - 5") 
SUBSEGMENTS ARE INTRODUCED TO FURTHER ARTICULATE 
MAIN BUILDING SEGMENTS
SEGMENT C
57' - 0"
VARIATIONS: 
SEGMENT A TO B
MATERIAL CHANGE
EXCLUSION OF BANDING
4'-0" WALL OFFSET 
9'-6" HEIGHT CHANGE
SEGMENT D
50' - 1"
SEGMENT E
82' - 3"
OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH
337' - 5"
SEGMENT G
46' - 9"
SEGMENT F
20' - 0"
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT C TO D
MATERIAL CHANGE
EXCLUSION OF BANDING
1'-2" WALL OFFSET 
9'-6" HEIGHT CHANGE
2' - 0"
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT D TO E
MATERIAL CHANGE
CHANGE TO CORNICE
3'-2" WALL OFFSET 
11'-0" HEIGHT CHANGE
3' - 6"
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT E TO F
MATERIAL CHANGE
EXCLUSION OF CORNICE
5'-1" WALL OFFSET 
3'-6" HEIGHT CHANGE
3' - 6"
2' - 0"
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT F TO G
MATERIAL CHANGE
CHANGE TO CORNICE
5'-1" WALL OFFSET 
2'-0" HEIGHT CHANGE
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT G TO H
MATERIAL CHANGE
EXCLUSION OF CORNICE
3'-11" WALL OFFSET 
0'-6" HEIGHT CHANGE
6"
13' - 0"
11' - 0"
9' - 6"
2' - 0"
9' - 6"
SEGMENT A
35' - 10"
SEGMENT B
3' - 1"
SEGMENT H
7' - 5"
SEGMENT I
25' - 6"
SEGMENT J
9' - 8"
SUBSEGMENT A
9' - 0"
SUBSEGMENT B
9' - 0"
SUBSEGMENT C
7' - 10"
SUBSEGMENT D
9' - 0"
SUBSEGMENT E
9' - 0"
SUBSEGMENT F
9' - 0"
SUBSEGMENT G
9' - 5"
10' - 5"
3' - 1"
35' - 10"
19' - 2"
17' - 7"
9' - 5"
13' - 11"
24' - 9"
14' - 1"
14' - 0"
13' - 2"
20' - 1"
13' - 3"
9' - 8"
25' - 6"
7' - 5"
24' - 0"
VARIATIONS: 
SEGMENT B TO C
MATERIAL CHANGE
CHANGE TO CORNICE
2'-0" WALL OFFSET 
2'-0" HEIGHT CHANGE
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT H TO I
MATERIAL CHANGE
CHANGE TO SIMPLE BAND
1'-9" WALL OFFSET 
13'-0" HEIGHT CHANGE
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT I TO J
MATERIAL CHANGE
INCLUSION OF SIMPLE BAND
1'-2" WALL OFFSET 
3'-6" HEIGHT CHANGE
3' - 6"
PEDESTRIAN 
ENTRANCE
1' - 2"
3' - 2"
1' - 9"
LINE OF WALL AT 6TH FLOOR
4' - 0"
LINE OF WALL AT 6TH FLOOR
5' - 8"
LINE OF WALL AT 6TH FLOOR
6' - 3"
5' - 1"
5' - 1"
5' - 2"
1' - 0"
10' - 5"
4' - 5"
5' - 2"
5' - 2"
5' - 2"
5' - 1"
WALL PLANE OFFSET, 
MAIN SEGMENTS
WALL PLANE OFFSET, 
SUBSEGMENTS
2' - 0"
3' - 11"
1' - 2"
SEGMENT C
35' - 0"
BUILDING SEGMENT D
30' - 9"
BUILDING SEGMENT E
34' - 3"
OVERALL BUILDING WIDTH
136' - 8"
VARIATIONS: 
SEGMENT A TO B
MATERIAL CHANGE
EXCLUSION OF BANDING 
2'-1" WALL OFFSET 
9'-2" HEIGHT CHANGE
9' - 2"
VARIATIONS: 
SEGMENT C TO D
MATERIAL CHANGE
EXCLUSION OF BANDING
2'-10" WALL OFFSET 
10'-6" HEIGHT CHANGE
10' - 6"
VARIATIONS: 
SEGMENT D TO E
MATERIAL CHANGE
CHANGE TO SIMPLE BANDING
2'-10" WALL OFFSET 
1'-0" HEIGHT CHANGE
1' - 0"
SEGMENT A
31' - 4"
SEGMENT B
5' - 5"
SUBSEGMENT A
9' - 0"
31' - 4"
5' - 5"
1' - 5"
24' - 7"
30' - 9"
34' - 3"
VARIATIONS: 
SEGMENT B TO C
MATERIAL CHANGE
INCLUSION OF BANDING 
2'-1" WALL OFFSET 
0'-6" HEIGHT CHANGE
6"
PEDESTRIAN 
ENTRANCE
LINE OF WALL AT 
6TH FLOOR
2' - 1"
2' - 10"
2' - 10"
5' - 7"
LINE OF WALL 
AT 6TH FLOOR
5' - 0"
16' - 8"
5' - 0"
2' - 1"
SEGMENT B
10' - 0"
SEGMENT C
30' - 0"
SEGMENT D
6' - 3"
SEGMENT E
35' - 8"
SUBSEGMENT A
16' - 1"
14' - 11"
40' - 4"
32' - 9"
10' - 0"
30' - 0"
6' - 3" 4' - 8"
BUILDING WIDTH
40' - 4"
BUILDING WIDTH
81' - 10"
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT A TO B
MATERIAL CHANGE
INCLUSION OF SIMPLE BAND
2'-1" WALL OFFSET 
11'-0" HEIGHT CHANGE
SEGMENT A
40' - 4"
11' - 0"
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT B TO C
MATERIAL CHANGE
INCLUSION OF SIMPLE BAND
71'-10" WALL OFFSET 
2'-0" HEIGHT CHANGE
2' - 0"
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT C TO D
MATERIAL CHANGE
EXCLUSION OF SIMPLE BAND
5'-0" WALL OFFSET 
1'-6" HEIGHT CHANGE
1' - 6"
VARIATIONS:
SEGMENT D TO E
MATERIAL CHANGE
INCLUSION OF SIMPLE BAND
8'-5" WALL OFFSET 
7'-6" HEIGHT CHANGE
7' - 6"
PEDESTRIAN 
ENTRANCE
5' - 0"
8' - 5"
1' - 0"
10' - 7"
71' - 10"
73' - 11"
LINE OF WALL AT 
6TH FLOOR
8' - 5"
2' - 1"
326' - 10"
3-DIMENSIONAL 
PILASTERS FOR WALL 
PLANE VARIATION
21' - 5"
127' - 5"
178' - 0"
NOTE: REAR ELEVATION IS NOT A STREET FRONTAGE FACADE 
TRAILING FLORA FOR 
VERTICAL WALL PLANE 
MASSING VARIATION
3-DIMENSIONAL 
PILASTERS FOR WALL 
PLANE VARIATION
TRAILING FLORA FOR 
VERTICAL WALL PLANE 
MASSING VARIATION
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
G 0.09
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
ODS DIAGRAMS
1" = 20'-0"
N SAN MATEO (EAST) ELEVATION - FLAT PLANE VARIATION
1" = 20'-0"
STATE ST (NORTH) ELEVATION - FLAT PLANE VARIATION
1" = 20'-0"
VILLA TERRACE (SOUTH) ELEVATION - FLAT PLANE VARIATION
1" = 20'-0"
WEST (REAR) ELEVATION

--- page 329 ---
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
ELEV 1
202 SF
FIRE
COMMAND
536 SF
MAIL/PACKAGE
1046 SF
LOBBY
921 SF
COWORKING
816 SF
ND/LEASING
25001 SF
PARKING
ELEV 2
1574 SF
BIKE PARKING
945 SF
TRASH ROOM
175 SF
MUDDY
PAWS
250 SF
POOL EQUIPMENT
1086 SF
MAINTENANCE
656 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C4
668 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
838 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UC
942 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
954 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
773 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
753 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
735 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
741 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1427 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2G
667 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
614 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1237 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2D
66 SF
IDF
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
533 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: SB
ELECTRIC
CORRIDOR
MPOE
1325 SF
ELECTRIC
ELECTRIC
193 SF
RESTROOMS
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
11/03/2025
20241881
BN
12-31-27
C4.0
PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN

--- page 330 ---
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
ELEV 1
202 SF
FIRE
COMMAND
536 SF
MAIL/PACKAGE
1046 SF
LOBBY
921 SF
COWORKING
816 SF
ND/LEASING
25001 SF
PARKING
ELEV 2
1574 SF
BIKE PARKING
945 SF
TRASH ROOM
175 SF
MUDDY
PAWS
250 SF
POOL EQUIPMENT
1086 SF
MAINTENANCE
656 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1C4
668 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
838 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UC
942 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
954 SF
1 BEDROOM
TYPE: 1A2
773 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UB
753 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
735 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
741 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1427 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2G
667 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
614 SF
URBAN 1 BED
TYPE: UA
1237 SF
2 BEDROOM
TYPE: 2D
66 SF
IDF
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
533 SF
STUDIO
TYPE: SB
ELECTRIC
CORRIDOR
MPOE
1325 SF
ELECTRIC
ELECTRIC
193 SF
RESTROOMS
PROJECT
NORTH
NORTH
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
11/03/2025
20241881
BN
12-31-27
C6.0
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN

--- page 331 ---
4'-6"
5'-0"
THROUGH-
ZONE
PLANTING/
FURNITURE
ZONE
5' PLANTING
BUILDING FACE
PROPERTY LINE
BIKE LANE
4'-6"
5'-0"
PLANTING/
FURNITURE
ZONE
5' PLANTING
BUILDING FACE
PROPERTY LINE
BIKE LANE
STOOP
THROUGH-
ZONE
10'+ STORM WATER SWALE
5' SIDEWALK
BUILDING FACE
PROPERTY LINE
PLANTING
4'-0"
5'-0"
8' PARALLEL
PARKING
BUILDING
FACE/ENTRANCE
PROPERTY LINE
BIKE LANE
8'-0"
ENTRY- ZONE
FURNISHING
ZONE
THROUGH-
ZONE
CITY
STANDARD
TREE GRATE
4'-6"
5'-0"
THROUGH-
ZONE
PLANTING
ZONE
10' LOADING
BUILDING FACE
PROPERTY LINE
2'-6"
FRONTAGE
ZONE
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN: WP/NV
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
11/03/2025
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
DESIGN REVIEW
CHECKED: JB
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
350 SE Mill Street   Suite 02
Portland, OR 97214
08-31-26
11-04-25
L-301
SITE SECTIONS 1
1/4"=1'-0"
01
SECTION 1
section
1/4"=1'-0"
03
SECTION 3
section
1/4"=1'-0"
02
SECTION 2
section
1/4"=1'-0"
04
SECTION 4
section
1/4"=1'-0"
05
SECTION 5
section

--- page 332 ---
LOW GRADE
0' - 0"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
71' - 9"
10' - 0"
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
16' - 3"
13' - 9"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
11' - 0"
4' - 0"
HIGH POINT
75' - 11 1/2"
75' - 11 1/2" - BUILDING HEIGHT
1
2
3
4
4
7
LOW GRADE
0' - 0"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
71' - 9"
4' - 0"
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
10' - 0"
11' - 0"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
13' - 9"
16' - 3"
HIGH POINT
75' - 11 1/2"
75' - 11 1/2" - BUILDING HEIGHT
1
3
4
4
4
5
8' - 0"
5
6
8' - 0"
7
8
8
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
3/32" = 1'-0"
A 3.00
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
3/32" = 1'-0"
EAST ELEVATION
3/32" = 1'-0"
WEST ELEVATION
ELEVATION NOTES
1
42" FALL PROTECTION GUARDRAIL AT ROOF, TYP.
2
CAST METAL BUILDING SIGNAGE, HT 18", DEPTH 2"
3
42" GUARDRAIL AT UNIT, TYP.
4
STAIR PENTHOUSE
5
8' TALL PRIVACY FENCE ALONG REAR PROPERTY
LINE, STEP FENCE WITH GRADE TO MAINTAIN 8'
HEIGHT
6
RAISED PLANTER @ REAR PL, TYP
7
EXTERIOR LIGHTING, TYP. SEE E 2.00 FOR
EXTERIOR LIGHTING PLANS, SCHEDULE & SPECS
8
3-DIMENSIONAL WALL RELIEF PILASTERS

--- page 333 ---
LOW GRADE
0' - 0"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
N. SAN MATEO DR
10' - 0"
71' - 9"
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
4' - 0"
11' - 0"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
13' - 9"
16' - 3"
HIGH POINT
75' - 11 1/2"
75' - 11 1/2" - BUILDING HEIGHT
1
2
3
4
4
7
LOW GRADE
0' - 0"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
N. SAN MATEO DR
10' - 0"
71' - 9"
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
4' - 0"
11' - 0"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
13' - 9"
16' - 3"
HIGH POINT
75' - 11 1/2"
75' - 11 1/2" - BUILDING HEIGHT
1
3
4
4
7
LOW GRADE
0' - 0"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
10' - 0"
71' - 9"
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
4' - 0"
11' - 0"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
13' - 9"
16' - 3"
HIGH POINT
75' - 11 1/2"
75' - 11 1/2" - BUILDING HEIGHT
1
3
7
SILL BAND
0' - 1 1/2"
0' - 4"
TYPICAL SILL BAND DETAIL 
AT STUCCO WALL
EXTERIOR
INTERIOR
WINDOW FRAME
WALL ASSEMBLY
0' - 3" MIN
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
As indicated
A 3.01
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
3/32" = 1'-0"
SOUTH ELEVATION
3/32" = 1'-0"
NORTH ELEVATION
3/32" = 1'-0"
2ND FLOOR COURTYARD - SOUTH ELEVATION
ELEVATION NOTES
1
42" FALL PROTECTION GUARDRAIL AT ROOF, TYP.
2
CAST METAL BUILDING SIGNAGE, HT 18", DEPTH 2"
3
42" GUARDRAIL AT UNIT, TYP.
4
STAIR PENTHOUSE
5
8' TALL PRIVACY FENCE ALONG REAR PROPERTY
LINE, STEP FENCE WITH GRADE TO MAINTAIN 8'
HEIGHT
6
RAISED PLANTER @ REAR PL, TYP
7
EXTERIOR LIGHTING, TYP. SEE E 2.00 FOR
EXTERIOR LIGHTING PLANS, SCHEDULE & SPECS
8
3-DIMENSIONAL WALL RELIEF PILASTERS

--- page 334 ---
LOW GRADE
0' - 0"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
10' - 0"
73' - 4"
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
4' - 0"
11' - 0"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
13' - 9"
16' - 3"
HIGH POINT
75' - 11 1/2"
75' - 11 1/2" - BUILDING HEIGHT
1
3
4
4
7
LOW GRADE
0' - 0"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
73' - 4"
10' - 0"
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
16' - 3"
13' - 9"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
11' - 0"
4' - 0"
HIGH POINT
75' - 11 1/2"
75' - 11 1/2" - BUILDING HEIGHT
1
4
7
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
3/32" = 1'-0"
A 3.02
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
3/32" = 1'-0"
2ND FLOOR COURTYARD - WEST ELEVATION
3/32" = 1'-0"
2ND FLOOR COURTYARD - EAST ELEVATION
ELEVATION NOTES
1
42" FALL PROTECTION GUARDRAIL AT ROOF, TYP.
2
CAST METAL BUILDING SIGNAGE, HT 18", DEPTH 2"
3
42" GUARDRAIL AT UNIT, TYP.
4
STAIR PENTHOUSE
5
8' TALL PRIVACY FENCE ALONG REAR PROPERTY
LINE, STEP FENCE WITH GRADE TO MAINTAIN 8'
HEIGHT
6
RAISED PLANTER @ REAR PL, TYP
7
EXTERIOR LIGHTING, TYP. SEE E 2.00 FOR
EXTERIOR LIGHTING PLANS, SCHEDULE & SPECS
8
3-DIMENSIONAL WALL RELIEF PILASTERS

--- page 335 ---
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
10' - 0"
71' - 9"
UNITS
PARKING
UTILITY
AMENITY
PARKING
15' - 7"
12' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 6"
CORR.
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
4' - 0"
11' - 0"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
13' - 9"
UTILITY
CORR.
CORR.
1
2
2
1' - 6"
0' - 8"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
13' - 9"
16' - 3"
BASEMENT
-8' - 8"
1ST FLOOR
1' - 6 1/2"
2ND FLOOR
17' - 9 1/2"
3RD FLOOR
31' - 6 1/2"
4TH FLOOR
41' - 9 1/2"
5TH FLOOR
52' - 0 1/2"
6TH FLOOR
62' - 3 1/2"
ROOF
73' - 3 1/2"
TOP OF PARAPET
77' - 3 1/2"
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
10' - 0"
71' - 9"
POOL
UNITS
PARKING
UTILITY
AMENITY
PARKING
PENTHOUSE
83' - 3 1/2"
4' - 0"
11' - 0"
20' - 6"
10' - 3"
13' - 9"
16' - 3"
10' - 3"
11' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
12' - 6"
15' - 7"
2
2
2
1
1' - 6"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
10' - 3"
13' - 9"
16' - 3"
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025
3/32" = 1'-0"
A 3.50
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
LONGITUDINAL SECTIONS
3/32" = 1'-0"
LONGITUDINAL SECTION THROUGH NORTHERN VOLUME
3/32" = 1'-0"
LONGITUDINAL SECTION THROUGH SOUTH VOLUME
SECTION NOTES
1
42" FALL PROTECTION GUARDRAIL AT ROOF, TYP.
2
STAIR PENTHOUSE

--- page 336 ---
N SAN MATEO DR
VILLA TERRACE
STATE ST
N SAN MATEO DR
VILLA TERRACE
DATE
SCALE
DRAWN
w w w . a r c h s f . c o m
t: 415. 318.8634
1898       mission     street
san francisco,  ca   94103
NW, FK, MR, LP
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
11/07/2025A 9.00
715 N SAN MATEO DR
715 N San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, CA 94401
2403
DESIGN REVIEW - REV 2
AXONOMETRIC VIEWS
NE AXON
NW AXON
SE AXON
SW AXON