Oro Valley is leasing controversial Flock Safety drones Skip to main content Skip to main content Register for more free articles. Log in Sign up Back to homepage Subscriber Login Keep reading with a digital access subscription. Subscribe now You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close 91° Sign in Subscribe Now Manage account Logout Manage account e-Newspaper Logout News Sign up for newsletters Local Arizona Business Crime Nation & World Markets & Stocks SaddleBrooke Politics Archives News Tip Arizona Daily Star E-edition E-edition-Tutorial Archives Special Sections Merchandise Circulars Readers' Choice Awards Buyer's Edge Obituaries Share Your Story Recent Obituaries Find an Obituary Opinion Submit a Letter Submit guest opinion Letters to the Editor Opinion & Editorials National Columnists Sports Arizona Wildcats Greg Hansen High Schools Roadrunners Lifestyles Events Calendar Arts & Theatre Food & Cooking Movies & TV Movie Listings Music Comics Games Columns Play Home & Gardening Health Get Healthy Parenting Fashion People Pets Travel Faith Retro Tucson History Travel Outdoors & Rec Community Pages Brand Ave. Studios Join the community News tip Share video Buy & Sell Place an Ad Shop Local Jobs Homes Marketplace I Love A Deal Shopping Customer Service Manage My Account Newsletter Sign-Up Subscribe Contact us Mobile Apps Weather: Live Radar Facebook Twitter Bluesky YouTube Pinterest Instagram © 2026 Lee Enterprises Terms of Service | Privacy Policy Read Today's E-edition Log In $1 for 3 months Subscribe Now Manage account e-Newspaper Logout E-edition News Obituaries Opinion Wildcats Lifestyles Newsletters Comics & Puzzles Buyer's Edge Jobs 91° Clear Share This Facebook Twitter Bluesky WhatsApp SMS Email Oro Valley police leasing controversial Flock Safety drones Share this Facebook Twitter Bluesky WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link ALL ACCESS. NO PAYWALL. Enjoy FREE UNLIMITED ACCESS to local news this 4th of July weekend! From us to you, presented by Tucson Appliance Co. Top Story Spotlight Oro Valley police leasing controversial Flock Safety drones Sarah Lapidus Arizona Republic Jun 29, 2026 Jun 29, 2026 Updated Jun 29, 2026 × Video Player is loading. Play Video Play Unmute Current Time 0:00 / Duration 0:00 Loaded : 0% Stream Type LIVE Seek to live, currently behind live LIVE Remaining Time - 0:00 1x Playback Rate Chapters Chapters Descriptions descriptions off , selected Captions captions settings , opens captions settings dialog captions off , selected Audio Track Picture-in-Picture Fullscreen This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. Text Color White Black Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Opaque Semi-Transparent Background Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Opaque Semi-Transparent Transparent Window Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Transparent Semi-Transparent Opaque Font Size 50% 75% 100% 125% 150% 175% 200% 300% 400% Text Edge Style None Raised Depressed Uniform Dropshadow Font Family Proportional Sans-Serif Monospace Sans-Serif Proportional Serif Monospace Serif Casual Script Small Caps Reset restore all settings to the default values Done Close Modal Dialog End of dialog window. See the A1 covers from the past for this day in history. Prefer us on Google Learn More Facebook Twitter Bluesky WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link The police department in Oro Valley received funds from a border support grant to lease four automated drones, officials say, which will enhance their capabilities to solve crime while keeping officers safer. The Oro Valley Town Council authorized the town’s police to use $145,887 to lease drones to help detain people charged with drug trafficking, human smuggling, illegal immigration and other border-related crimes within the town just north of Tucson. The council voted unanimously on the measure in January. The program is called Drone as First Responder Program, and it’s offered by Flock Safety. “This program is probably the one I’ve been most excited about,” said Lt. Kevin Peterson of the department’s special operations bureau. “I really think it can revolutionize and change the way we respond and make our community safer and our officers safer.” People are also reading… New demand note emerges in the Nancy Guthrie case National Geographic: Arizona town among most charming Why lizards in Arizona do push-ups Former Sam Levitz building sells for $8.6 million Pete Buttigieg cancels visit to Tucson Here's where to see the fireworks, celebrate July 4 in Tucson area Tucson's July 4th fireworks display will switch to drones light show next year Wandering Tucson church building permanent home A Powerball ticket worth $2 million sold at a Tucson QuikTrip Arizona quarterback Noah Fifita shines at Manning Passing Academy Woman dies of crash injuries originally thought not to be life-threatening Man pleads guilty in Nancy Guthrie ransom demand Woman, 66, found dead near Sabino Canyon trail Motorcyclist killed in midtown Tucson crash After Final Four, Arizona 'immediately' had Tommy Lloyd directly reporting to Garimella He noted that while Oro Valley isn’t on the border, it is affected by border-related crimes, such as fentanyl and other narcotics and human smuggling. In response to questions from officials about using these drones for immigration enforcement, Peterson said the department did not originally list immigration in its grant application. What do the drones do? While Oro Valley has had drones since 2017, they require an on-site operator and take time to set up and fly. The Flock Safety drones can operate immediately from anywhere there is internet access. Peterson said the greatest benefit of the automated drones is faster response time. He noted that other agencies with these drones are seeing response times to calls ranging from 90-100 seconds, he said. He also noted that 70% of the time, the drone arrives on the scene before an officer. “The current model that we have now, a drone operator has to respond to the scene, unload the equipment, get a visual observer for a visual line of sight and then launch the drone,” Peterson said, noting how the time it takes to set up creates a gap in being able to contain someone who is dangerous. A drone hovers during a protest against ICE in January outside the State Capitol in Phoenix. At the start of the year the Oro Valley Town Council authorized the town’s police department to use $145,887 to lease drones to help with border-related crimes. Patrick Breen, Arizona Republic, File 2026 He noted other uses for the drones include finding missing people and helping locate fire hotspots with thermal imaging. What is Flock Safety? What do its products do? Flock Safety is a company that produces automated drones, license plate readers and security cameras. Flock’s automated license plate recognition software collects details and the movement of vehicles and stores them on the cloud, an online storage space. Flock uses machine learning to identify a range of details of vehicles, like the make, body type, whether it is missing a plate and other identifiers, like window stickers. Flock provides searchable data and alerts to law enforcement. Oro Valley is one of many police agencies across the state that use Flock Safety cameras to detect license plates, according to Darren Wright, a department spokesperson. Some critics have concerns about Flock cameras' use in immigration raids. While Flock says its license plate readers help deter crime, critics say they differ from other surveillance equipment because they collect personal data. 404 media found Flock safety data had been accessed by immigration officials. Oro Valley maintains it does not use Flock cameras to detect facial recognition, people, gender or race, according to the town’s transparency website. Data from the department’s Flock cameras is retained for 30 days. Wright said the policy for footage retention from drones is the same as footage collected from body cameras and depends on the crime. If the footage is for a serious felony, it would be kept longer, Wright said. In a recent social media post, activist group DeFlock Tucson posted the department’s audit logs obtained through a public records request. It showed Oro Valley police logging one search for “protest.” While the group criticized the department for surveilling protesters, Oro Valley police maintained the search in that Flock camera was mislabeled. The search was for someone who had assaulted a person during a "No Kings" protest, Wright said. Does Oro Valley share its Flock data with immigration officials? Wright said Oro Valley shares its data and footage with regional partners. Each request is considered case by case. “If they're doing it for legitimate law enforcement purposes, then the grant request is probably going to be granted,” he said. Asked if crossing undocumented is a case the department would consider a legitimate reason to access data or footage, Wright said it depends on whether the case was tied to criminal activity. “It's case-by-case basis. It depends on if there's another criminal aspect to it,” he said. What about oversight and privacy measures? Peterson, who is leading the effort to find grants to fund the automated drone program, said the Oro Valley Police Department's policy is not to conduct random surveillance. He defined surveillance as “preplanned operations to watch people in their actions.” Peterson pointed to Flock’s transparency page, which logs the number of searches, other agencies with which Oro Valley has shared its data and more. He said that page also would log data from the drones, including a drone’s flight path, distance traveled and number of minutes in the air. Drones that are used by the department do not record the entire time, police said. “If it’s up in the air and there’s nothing that needs to be recorded by the drone pilot, it’s not going to be recording,” said Zachary Young, a commander with Oro Valley police. “Our policy is very strict. We do not do random surveillance with this platform. That is not the intention of it, in any way, shape or form.” The department’s policy manual prohibits unmanned aerial systems to conduct “random surveillance activities” or to target a person based on race, ethnicity, national origin, sex, sexual orientation and more. The manual also prohibits drones from being weaponized. Subscribe to stay connected to Tucson. A subscription helps you access more of the local stories that keep you connected to the community. Sign up for our Crime & Courts newsletter Get the latest in local public safety news with this weekly email. Sign up! * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy . Related to this story Arizona Daily Star on this date: June 28 See the A1 covers from the past for this day in history. Hiker, 75, dies after being airlifted from trail west of Tucson A 75-year-old woman died after being airlifted from a hiking trail west of Tucson on Tuesday. Tucson care facility staffers charged in patient's death A federal crackdown on healthcare schemes has resulted in charges being leveled against 42 people from Arizona, officials say. New details released in shooting by deputies near Tucson New video and details have been released in the shooting of a man who pointed a gun at Pima County Sheriff's deputies after making a false 911… Nancy Guthrie's Tucson neighbors: Life with streamers 'unbearable' For Star subscribers: Over four months after Nancy Guthrie, the 84-year-old mother of “Today” co-host Savanah Guthrie, disappeared, nearby res… Online listeners seek new tactics as Tucson police go radio silent The Tucson Police Department fully encrypted its radio communications in April, effectively shutting down online scanner feeds used by people … Watch Now: Related Video Video Player is loading. Play Video Play Mute Current Time 0:00 / Duration 0:00 Loaded : 0% Stream Type LIVE Seek to live, currently behind live LIVE Remaining Time - 0:00 1x Playback Rate Chapters Chapters Descriptions descriptions off , selected Captions captions settings , opens captions settings dialog captions off , selected Audio Track Picture-in-Picture Fullscreen This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. Text Color White Black Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Opaque Semi-Transparent Background Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Opaque Semi-Transparent Transparent Window Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Transparent Semi-Transparent Opaque Font Size 50% 75% 100% 125% 150% 175% 200% 300% 400% Text Edge Style None Raised Depressed Uniform Dropshadow Font Family Proportional Sans-Serif Monospace Sans-Serif Proportional Serif Monospace Serif Casual Script Small Caps Reset restore all settings to the default values Done Close Modal Dialog End of dialog window. Arizona Daily Star on this date: July 3 Tucson's Top Stories: July 3 Tucson's Top Stories: July 3 How do Americans feel about the country and vision of the Founders? How do Americans feel about the country and vision of the Founders? Armory Park reopens after extensive renovation Armory Park reopens after extensive renovation × Facebook Twitter Bluesky YouTube Instagram Arizona Daily Star Store This is Tucson Saddlebag Notes Tucson Festival of Books Prefer us on Google Learn More Sites & Partners E-edition Classifieds Events calendar Careers @ Lee Enterprises Careers @ USA Today Co. Online Features Sponsored Blogs Get Healthy Services Advertise with us Register Contact us RSS feeds Newsletters Photo reprints Subscriber services Subscription FAQ Licensing Shopping © Copyright 2026 Arizona Daily Star , PO Box 26887 Tucson, AZ 85726-6887 Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Advertising Terms of Use | Do Not Sell My Info | Cookie Preferences Powered by BLOX Content Management System from bloxdigital.com . Notifications Settings You don't have any notifications. Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device. Topics News Alerts Subscribe Breaking News Subscribe