--- page 1 ---
Flock says its cameras don’t track people.
Its own training videos say otherwise.
Company’s newest devices use AI to follow pedestrians, while protesters are
mapping nearly 90,000 surveillance cameras nationwide.
Flock's own training videos show police using the system to track suspects "from location to location to
location."
By Brendan Keefe
Published: Jun. 15, 2026 at 10:33 AM PDT

News
News
Live
Live
Weather
Weather
Hurricane
Hurricane
Sports
Sports
Suncoast View
Suncoast View
As Seen On 7
As Seen On 7

ADVERTISEMENT
Share


--- page 2 ---
Add Us
On Google
(InvestigateTV) — Flock Safety says its cameras don’t track people.
But the company’s own training videos show police using the system to track suspects “from
location to location to location.”
And some of its cameras are designed to follow people as they walk.
“And they quite literally use AI to zoom in and follow you around whether you’re a person of
interest or not,” said Benn Jordan, a security researcher who found dozens of Flock cameras
streaming openly online.
This is the second report in an ongoing investigation into Flock Safety, a private Atlanta-based
company that operates a network of surveillance cameras used by thousands of police
departments nationwide.
Read: Flock Safety cameras help solve crimes. But who’s watching the watchers?
Tracking the trackers
Inside a coffee shop in Boulder, Colorado, Will Freeman runs the largest police camera tracking
system in the nation.
It’s called DeFlock.
The app shows where Flock cameras are located and which direction they’re pointed.
“How many cameras have you mapped?” our national investigator Brendan Keefe asked.
“88,970 cameras at the moment,” Freeman said.
Freeman said he created the app to show people how invasive the surveillance network has
become.


--- page 3 ---
Flock license plate readers take a time-stamped photo of every vehicle that passes. Police can
search historical travel information for any car for 30 days without a warrant.
“If you were to build a graph of that sheet and plot it to a map, now it’s as if you’ve had a GPS
on your car for an entire month,” Jordan said.
The tracking debate
Josh Thomas, Flock Safety’s chief communications officer, said the company helps solve
700,000 crimes a year.
“Reported crimes in America, yeah,” Thomas said. “So there’s a lot more that probably are being
helped that aren’t being reported. But yes, we have about 700,000 crimes that we are aware of
that are being solved, in part with evidence that’s derived from a Flock Safety device.”
But Thomas disputed the characterization that the system tracks people. Thomas said the
system captures fixed points in time, not continuous tracking.
“Tracking the whole of your movements is very different than knowing that you pass by one
specific camera, 24 specific cameras,” Thomas said. “Those are different things.”
Flock’s own training videos
But Flock’s own webinars describe the system’s ability to track vehicles and people.
“The example of tracking that vehicle from location to location to location,” a Flock webinar
instructor said.
“And you’re able to track your suspect’s movements,” another webinar showed.
In one training video, a police officer described using Flock cameras to follow a suspect across
state lines.


--- page 4 ---
“And we were able to track him all the way over to another state, in Kentucky,” the officer said.
Condor cameras track pedestrians
Flock’s Condor cameras are different from its license plate readers.
The Condor is a pan-tilt-zoom camera that uses artificial intelligence to detect and follow
people.
“You’re saying Flock does not track people, correct?” National investigator Brendan Keefe asked
Thomas.
“Track people? That’s right,” Thomas said. “And the whole of their movements, like you asked,
we’re not tracking people.”
“But what do the Condor cameras do? They literally are designed to track a person, aren’t
they?” Keefe asked.
“Not to track a person, no,” Thomas said.
But when Keefe walked in front of a Condor camera on a public trail, the camera followed his
movements in real time, panning and tilting to keep him in frame.
A Flock training webinar describes the feature.
“To alert you when it sees human movement,” the webinar instructor said. “And it will actually
acquire and track that person as they walk, or people.”
Thomas said the camera has an object detection feature called Guardian Mode.
“There’s an object detection feature that you can set up, it’s called Guardian Mode, that allows
the camera to just know if there’s movement from a person in the screen,” Thomas said. “It is 

--- page 5 ---
not tracking where you’re going to go, where you’re going to leave, or you’re going to start and
stop.”
Jordan said the Condor cameras appeared shortly after Flock said its cameras only record
license plates.
“These started popping up weeks after hearing Flock say, ‘These only record license plates.
They don’t take pictures of people,’” Jordan said.
The Condor is a pan-tilt-zoom camera that uses A.I. to detect and follow people. (InvestigateTV)
Cameras streaming without passwords
Jordan found the same Condor camera streaming openly online with no password required. He
published the video on YouTube along 404 Media.
“At one point, I think we had found over 70 cameras,” Jordan said.
Jordan said he was able to watch people in real time.
“I watched a man leave his house in the morning. I watched a woman jogging alone on a forest
trail in Georgia,” Jordan said.
Jordan was able to read a statement from Flock’s CEO about the company never being hacked
in front of one of the exposed cameras. He downloaded the footage later over the internet,
directly from the camera.
Thomas said the exposure was an accident caused by Verizon.
“This wasn’t the dark web,” Keefe said. “This was openly streaming to anyone who could go on
a specific search engine and scan open ports. Was that an accident?”
“Yes,” Thomas said. “Verizon sent us the wrong SIM cards that had a public IP address. We
have a lot of sensors in the world that don’t have that. Roughly 60-70 devices had a public-
facing IP address. The second we learned about it, we fixed it.”


--- page 6 ---
Verizon did not respond to a request for comment.
Officers arrested for misuse
Police officers nationwide have been arrested for using Flock cameras to stalk former partners
and love interests.
“What if a police officer uses Flock cameras to stalk their ex? What if an abusive partner uses it
to stalk their ex-girlfriend and her new boyfriend? It’s already happened,” Jordan said.
Thomas said misuse is a horrible use of the technology.
“Tools aren’t designed to do that,” Thomas said. “This is why we built an audit log, and we work
with the appropriate democratically elected governing bodies to hold those people
accountable.”
Freeman said abuse is inevitable.
“You have to consider human nature when you implement things like this,” Freeman said. “No
one’s perfect. People are going to abuse it.”
Routing around cameras
Back in the Boulder coffee shop, Freeman demonstrated another feature of DeFlock.
“Direct route, four cameras,” Freeman said, showing a 1.7-mile route. “And that’s just to go 1.7
miles.”
Will Freeman shows how the app DeFlock suggests alternate routes to avoid Flock cameras (InvestigateTV)
DeFlock allows users to plot routes that avoid cameras. The app showed an alternate route that
took nearly three times as long but avoided all cameras.


--- page 7 ---
“Yeah, it goes from five minutes to 14 minutes, but it avoids all the cameras,” Freeman said.
The debate over public safety
Thomas said the technology helps prevent mass killings.
“There’s an epidemic, as we all know, of mass killings in America,” Thomas said. “And if there’s
an opportunity to stop that, I want to be on the side of the people who are fighting to stop those
things, not the people who are fighting to stop the proliferation of technology to stop crime.”
“Actual killers have been caught with this technology,” Keefe said to Freeman. “Would you want
to take that away from the police?”
“Considering everything, I would want to take that away from the police, at least in the current
state that it’s in,” Freeman said.
Freeman said the problem is that the system logs everyone, not just suspects.
“A feature that you can’t turn off is that it’s logging everyone else,” Freeman said. “So if they can
get rid of that ‘logging everyone else’ part, I think it would be a lot better.”
Freeman said he will continue tracking the trackers because no one is watching the watchers.
More than two dozen cities recently cancelled their Flock contracts, including Denver, amid
concerns over who has access to the company’s camera data.


--- page 8 ---
Copyright 2026 Gray Media Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Most Read
ADVERTISEMENT
 Toddler found alive in hospital morgue after being
mistakenly pronounced dead by doctor


--- page 9 ---
 Body cam video shows Florida deputies responding to
alligator attack that killed 31-year-old woman
 One killed, two injured by lightning on Fort Myers Beach
 Veteran shot, killed after argument with woman over
Walmart parking space, authorities say
 WATCH LIVE: Nathan Benderson Park hosts annual
fireworks celebration Friday
 New Hampshire man accused of animal cruelty at SRQ
airport
 Details emerge in Venice shooting; man killed had
forced his way into apartment
 Vehicle crashes into Old Navy storefront in North Port


--- page 10 ---
Latest News
 Extreme heat bears down as America 250 celebrations
ramp up. Trump speaks at Mount Rushmore
 Fireworks or thunderstorms? Here’s your complete 4th
of July breakdown.
 Eight rescued when boat capsizes off Fort Myers Beach
Eight rescued after boat capsizes

 Holiday weekend providing a needed shot in the arm for
local businesses


--- page 11 ---
 WATCH LIVE: Nathan Benderson Park hosts annual
fireworks celebration Friday
Inside the fence: Tampa International Airport opens Airside
D construction site to media

Tampa bomb squad safely destroys explosive device found
in garage


News
Live
Coronavirus
Weather
Suncoast View
Empowering
Voices
Share It!
Livecams
WWSB
1477 10th Street
Sarasota, FL 34236
(941) 552-0777
Public Inspection File
PUBLICFILE@WWSB.TV - 941-552-0777
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
EEO Statement
FCC Applications
Closed Captioning/Audio Description
Advertising
Digital Marketing
Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence.
A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026