Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock
Belmont CA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Tue Aug 11 2026

Overview

Belmont CA PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Belmont CA PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Belmont CA PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

10

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

331,983

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

84

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

776

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Belmont CA PD data.

Atherton CA PD
Brisbane CA PD
Burlingame CA PD
Cal Fire
California Highway Patrol
Colma CA PD
Daly City CA PD
East Palo Alto CA PD
Foster City CA PD
Hillsborough CA PD
Menlo Park CA PD
Pacifica CA PD
Redwood City CA PD
San Bruno CA PD
San Francisco CA PD
San Mateo CA PD
San Mateo County CA SO
South San Francisco CA PD
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Belmont CA PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV
More Info

Belmont Police Department - Automated License Plate Readers (ALPR) Policy

https://www.belmont.gov/home/showpublisheddocument/24502/638725706546683515

Provided by Flock Safety