source: packet.pdf
sha256: 3e5c5ecbfc8ec043f1a9efdd120ddfe3296ed08afd48eaa4815ae6cff128b088
pages: 214
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
May 3, 2021
7:00 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: May 3, 2021 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 884 1252 5584
Passcode: 939721
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CEREMONIAL
1.
High School 4.0 Honors Recognition
2.
San Mateo County Mental Health Month
3.
National Police Week
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
4.
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meeting of April 19, 2021.
5.
Ordinance Adoption – “Protected Trees” Ordinance and Administrative Guidelines Approval
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code to add a new Chapter 13.40 “Protected Trees” to
replace the existing Chapters 13.35 “Street Trees” and Chapter 13.52 “Heritage Trees” and approve the
“Protected Trees Ordinance Administrative Guidelines”.
6.
City Council Guidelines and Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures – Update
Approve the amendments to the City Council Guidelines and to the Boards and Commissioner Rules and
Procedures.
1 of 214

--- page 2 ---
7.
Board and Commissions – Confirm Reappointments, Appoint to Personnel Board, and Establish Annual
Appointment Subcommittees
Appoint the following Appointment Subcommittees: Mayor Rodriguez and Council Member Lee to the Park &
Recreation Commission and Mayor Rodriguez and Deputy Mayor Bonilla to the Community Relations Commission.
At the recommendation of the Personnel Board Subcommittee, appoint Debra Kaiser to a term ending 6-10-2025
and make the following reappointments to their next terms: Library Board - Lester Chen and Lisa Diaz Nash; Park
& Recreation Foundation – Heather Wolnick; Planning Commission – John Ebneter and Ellen Mallory; Senior
Citizen’s Commission – Irene Bluth; and Sustainability & Infrastructure – Susan Rowinski.
8.
Community Development Block Grant 2021-22 Annual Action Plan – Adoption
Adopt the 2021-22 Annual Action Plan for the Community Development Block Grant Program.
9.
Classification Updates – Community Development Department
Adopt a Resolution to approve the revisions to the job specifications for the classifications of Senior Building
Inspector, Building Inspector I-II, Principal Planner and Building Official.
10.
California State Library Services and Technology Act – Budget Appropriation
Adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental budget appropriation in the amount of $9,570 for a grant awarded
by the California State Library to the San Mateo Public Library to support the “Maker Camps!” project.
11.
Contracts with Contingency Component – Update
Receive the report on citywide contracts contingency fund expenditures for the period from July 1, 2015 through
February 28, 2021.
12.
Coyote Point and Poplar Pump Stations Design Services - Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 4 to the agreement with Schaaf & Wheeler for expanded scope and services for the
Coyote Point and Poplar Avenue Pump Stations project, in an amount not to exceed $187,010, bringing the total
agreement amount to $1,318,080; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in
substantially the form presented.
13.
Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act of 2021 – Letter of Support
Approve the letter of support to Representative Jackie Speier for HR 2307: The Energy Innovation and Carbon
Dividend Act of 2021 and authorize the Mayor to sign the letter on behalf of City Council.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
OLD BUSINESS
14.
COVID-19 Update
Receive update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-19, confirm rules and regulations
issued by the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in response to declared emergency, and
confirm the need for a continued local declaration of emergency.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
2 of 214

--- page 3 ---
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and
you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and
provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
3 of 214

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4257-06
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
May 3, 2021 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meetings of April 19, 2021.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Special Meeting Minutes 4/19/21
Att 2 – Regular Meeting Minutes 4/19/21
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
4 of 214

--- page 5 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 04/19/2021
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Diane Papan
Amourence Lee
Joe Goethals
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Monday, April 19, 2021
Remote 5:30 PM
Special Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency.
Roll Call
Remote:    Mayor Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor Bonilla, Council Members: Papan, Lee and Goethals 
CLOSED SESSION 
Following the opportunity for public comment, James Ruigomez commented on the opportunity to use a community 
workforce agreement for this project; the City Council convened into Closed Session to consider:
1.
Conference with Real Property Negotiators (Gov. Code Section 54956.8)
Property:  Public parking lots located at 4th Avenue and Railroad Avenue and at 308 5th Avenue
Agency negotiator: Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager and Sandra Council, Housing Manager
Negotiating parties: Prometheus/Harvest Properties/Alta Housing, MidPen Housing, Mercy Housing, West 
Development Ventures
Under negotiation: Price and terms associated with potential disposition of Property
STUDY SESSION 
2.
City Council Guidelines and Commission Rules and Procedures - Update
City Clerk Patrice Olds provided an overview of proposed changes to the Council Guidelines and the Board and 
Commission Rules and Procedures. Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – There were no speakers. 
Council discussed and directed changes be included on the Board and Commission Recruitment process to include 
more definition around using the eligibility list and provided direction on the wording on the section on continuity 
appointments. 
ADJOURNMENT – The meeting adjourned at 6:50 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                      
                                                           
Eric Rodriguez Mayor                                                   
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
5 of 214

--- page 6 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 04/19/2021
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Diane Papan
Amourence Lee
Joe Goethals
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Monday, April 19, 2021
Remote 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency.
Roll Call
 
Remote:    Mayor Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor Bonilla, Council Members: Papan, Lee, and Goethals
CEREMONIAL
1.
Ramadan Observance
2.
“Mayors for Peace – Free of Nuclear Weapons” – Proclamation
3.
Earth Month – Proclamation
4.
Sergeant Al Baccei, Police Department – Retirement Commendatory Resolution
CONSENT CALENDAR
The following items, 5 through 19 were considered to be routine by the City Council. After the titles of the items were read 
by the City Clerk, the public was invited to comment and there were no speakers. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Goethals, Seconded: Lee
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Lee, Papan and Goethals
Noes: 
None
 
5.
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meeting of March 15, 2021.
6.
Amend Municipal Code Section "Placing Certain Objects in the Public Right of Way" – Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Section 17.08.020 "Placing Certain Objects in the 
Public Right of Way" to allow for public markers and making other necessary minor revisions to the chapter. 
Enactment:  Ordinance No. 2021-11
7.
Proposed Fireworks Amendments – Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to add Chapter 10.20 “Fireworks” to the San Mateo Municipal Code related to enforcement of 
fireworks violations.
Enactment:  Ordinance No. 2021-12
8.
San Mateo Public Library Foundation Operating Lease – Amendment 
6 of 214

--- page 7 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 04/19/2021
Page 2
Approve an amendment to the Commercial Property Lease Agreement and Operating Agreement with the San 
Mateo Public Library Foundation to extend the lease for an additional year through March 31, 2022 for a fee of $12 
per annum; and authorize the City Librarian to execute the amendment. 
9.
Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package 1-C Project Phase 1 – Agreement
Approve an agreement with Esquivel Grading & Paving Inc. for the Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package 1-C 
Project (Phase 1) in the amount of $968,756.60; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $100,000; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change 
orders as allowed by the contract documents and within the amount of the contingency reserve.
10.
Citywide Street Reconstruction Phase 1 Project – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with Interstate Grading & Paving for the Citywide Street 
Reconstruction Phase 1 project to increase the total contract amount by $767,000, for a total of $4,457,533, and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented and issue 
change orders in accordance with the contract documents and up to the contingency amount.
11.
Pavement Management and Smooth Streets Program Management Services – Agreement 
Approve an agreement with Freyer & Laureta, Inc. for program management services for the Smooth Streets and 
Pavement Management programs in an amount not to exceed $200,000; establish a contingency of $20,000; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue 
amendments within the contingency amount.
12.
Pacific Boulevard Force Main Project – Agreement 
Award a contract to JMB Construction for construction of the Pacific Boulevard Force Main in an amount not to 
exceed $1,892,650; establish a contingency fund in an amount of $283,000; and authorize the Public Works 
Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the 
contingency amount.
13.
Private Development and Right-of-Way Support Services Agreement – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 3 to the agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc. for professional consultant services for 
private development and right-of-way support services in the amount of $150,000, for a new agreement total of 
$350,000; extend the term of the agreement to May 2, 2022; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute 
the amendment in substantially the form presented.
14.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Centrifuges – Contract Change Order and Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 1 and Change Order No. 2 to the contract with GEA Mechanical US, Inc. - WESTFALIA 
(GEA) in the amount of $24,000 for a new contract total of $186,136.55 for repair and maintenance of centrifuges 
at the Wastewater Treatment Plant and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment and 
change order in substantially the form presented. 
15.
Central Park Tennis Court Garage Repair – Budget Appropriation and Contract Change Order
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $25,000 of available fund balance from the Parking In-lieu Fund; approve 
Contract Change Order No. 3 to the contract with Newton Construction and Management, Inc. in the amount of 
$539,436.51 for a new contract total of $1,569,633.95; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $30,000; 
and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract change order in substantially the form presented 
and issue change orders in accordance with the contract documents and within the contingency amount.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 36 (2021)
7 of 214

--- page 8 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 04/19/2021
Page 3
16.
Electrical Vehicle Charging Installation – Grant Acceptance
Accept a grant of up to $134,000 from the California Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Project to rebate a portion of 
the costs of electric vehicle charger installation at the Main Street and 2nd and El Camino public parking garages.
17.
Police Department Budgeted Positions – Reallocations
Adopt a Resolution to reallocate one authorized Police Officer position to a Police Sergeant position and reallocate 
one authorized Police Sergeant position to a Police Lieutenant position. 
Enactment: Resolution No. 37 (2021)
18.
COVID-19 Update
Receive update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-19 and confirm rules and regulations 
issued by the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in response to declared emergency.
19.
Caltrain Projects Funding – Letters of Support 
Approve letters of support sent by the Mayor on behalf of the City Council to Congresswoman Speier supporting 
Caltrain's crossing optimization project and grade separation design guidelines project.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Wendy Chou, Roisin McElarney and Joshua Wing spoke in support of supporting HR2307.
OLD BUSINESS
20.
Budget Update and Appropriation and American Rescue Plan Funds Discussion 
Finance Director Rich Lee provided an overview and update of the expected financial impacts on the budget 
for fiscal year 2020-21 and projected impacts for the 2021-22 budget and preliminary considerations for 
disposition of American Rescue Plan funds. Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – Rich Hedges 
asked questions regarding the financial situation.
Motion to Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $1.9 million in available fund balance of the General Fund. Motion 
passed 5-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Goethals
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Lee, Papan and Goethals
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Resolution No. 38 (2021)
NEW BUSINESS
21.
Ordinance Introduction – “Protected Trees” Ordinance and Administrative Guidelines Approval
Managing Arborist Matthew Fried provided an overview of the protected trees ordinance and highlight the 
differences being proposed for the code. Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – Rich Hedges stated 
support for the ordinance. 
Motion to Introduce an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code to add a new Chapter 13.40 “Protected 
Trees” to replace the existing Chapters 13.35 “Street Trees” and Chapter 13.52 “Heritage Trees” and approve the 
“Protected Trees Ordinance Administrative Guidelines.” Motion passed 5-0. 
8 of 214

--- page 9 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 04/19/2021
Page 4
Moved:
Bonilla, Seconded: Papan
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Lee, Papan and Goethals
Noes: 
None
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
The City Manager, City Attorney and Council reported on their various assignments and liaison roles. Council Member 
Bonilla asked to agendize a letter of support for HR2037 with unanimous approval. 
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 8:36 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                      
                                                           
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor                                                   
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
 
9 of 214

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4519-01
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
May 3, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Ordinance Adoption – “Protected Trees” Chapter Addition
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code to add a new Chapter 13.40 “Protected Trees” to replace the 
existing Chapters 13.35 “Street Trees” and Chapter 13.52 “Heritage Trees”.
BACKGROUND:
Ordinance Introduction date: April 19, 2021 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Matthew Fried, Manager Arborist
mfried@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7422
10 of 214

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Repealing Chapter 13.35, “Street Trees” and Chapter 13.52 “Heritage Trees” of Title 13, “Parks and 
Recreation,” and Adopting a New Chapter 13.40, “Protected Trees,” of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
WHEREAS, The City has a street tree ordinance codified at Chapter 13.35 of the Municipal Code; and
WHEREAS, The City has a heritage tree ordinance codified at Chapter 13.52 of the Municipal Code; and
WHEREAS, The City wishes to combine those Chapters into a new Chapter 13.40 addressing all protected 
trees; and
WHEREAS, The City wishes to simplify and update the provisions protecting trees to match current best 
practices;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Chapters 13.35 and 13.52 of the San Mateo Municipal Code are repealed.
Section 2. The table in Section 1.04.050, “Enforcement – Citation Authority,” is amended to:
(a)  replace the references to Chapters 13.35 and 13.52 with references to Chapter 13.40; and
(b) Add Managing Arborist and Director of Parks and Recreation to the list of positions authorized to 
enforce Chapter 13.40.
Section 3. Chapter 13.40 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is adopted to read as follows:
Chapter 13.40
Protected Trees
Article I. General Provisions
13.40.010 Purpose and Intent
This Chapter is adopted because the City has been forested with a variety of healthy and valuable trees 
which must be protected, preserved, and replenished for the health and welfare of residents and in order to 
preserve scenic beauty, maintain property values, prevent erosion, protect against flood hazards and landslides, 
counteract pollutants in the air, maintain climatic balance, decrease wind velocities, and relieve the public costs 
of installing and maintaining stormwater drainage systems. It is the intent of this chapter to establish regulations 
for the protection of trees within the City in order to retain as many trees as possible consistent with these 
purposes and the reasonable economic enjoyment of private property.
11 of 214

--- page 12 ---
13.40.020 Applicability
(a) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all persons or entities, including the City of San Mateo, or 
as specifically regulated under other provisions of the San Mateo Municipal Code. 
(b) Exception for Planning Applications Other Than Single Family Dwelling Design Review Applications. A 
person or entity who has received approval of a planning application which is also subject to the landscape 
regulations contained in Chapter 27.71, need only obtain a site development permit pursuant to Chapter 23.40 
from the Planning Division for the Removal and/or Major Pruning of Protected Trees on the property proposed 
for development. 
13.40.030 Definitions
Terms used in this chapter shall be defined as follows: 
(a) Administrative Guidelines means Director-approved regulations implementing this Chapter.
(b) Best Management Practices means the current edition of the International Society of Arboriculture 
(ISA) “Best Management Practices” publications.
(c) Certified Arborist means an arborist certified by the ISA.
(d) City Arborist means any Certified Arborist designated by the City to perform arborist functions on 
behalf of the City.
(e) City Manager means City Manager or his or her designee.
(f) Commission means the Park and Recreation Commission of the City.
(g) Construction Activity means any construction work associated with or requiring a permit for any new 
building, building addition, building demolition, grading, excavation or paving. This includes the necessary 
related activities which may or may not be shown on site plans, including but not limited to: storing/staging of 
materials, site access, parking, placement of temporary structures, debris disposal, additional excavation and 
landscaping.
(h) Damage means any act inconsistent with Best Management Practices, without prior approval from 
the City Arborist. “Damage” includes, but is not limited to:
(1) Removal of bark greater than 3" across;
(2) Breaking, splitting or dislocation of the main trunk; 
(3) Cutting, ripping, or tearing of roots greater that 2 inches in diameter;
(4) Grade changes or soil compaction beneath the Dripline;
(5) Any act compromising its future health or structural integrity;
12 of 214

--- page 13 ---
(6) Any act detrimental to its overall aesthetics; 
(7) Pruning a tree incrementally within any three-year period for the purpose of staying below 
the 25% threshold, with a cumulative effect that harms the condition or aesthetics of the tree; or
(8) Any act inconsistent with Best Management Practices. 
(i) Director means the Director of Parks and Recreation or his or her designee.
(j) Dripline means the area underneath the tree’s canopy and defined by the outermost spread of the 
tree’s canopy.
(k) Heritage Tree means any of the following:
(1) Any oak (Quercus spp.)  tree with a trunk that has a diameter of ten inches or more (31.4 
inches in circumference) measured at 54 inches above natural grade;
(2) Any other tree with a trunk diameter of fifteen inches (47.1 inches in circumference) or 
more, measured at 54 inches above natural grade. 
(3) Multi-stem trees. Trees with more than one stem (arising at or below 54 inches) shall be 
measured at the smallest diameter point below the main union of all stems unless the union occurs 
below grade, in which case each stem shall be measured as a stand-alone tree.  For oak trees, if one 
stem is ten inches or more in diameter, the tree will constitute one Heritage Tree.  For all other species, 
if one stem is fifteen inches or more in diameter, the tree will constitute one Heritage Tree. 
(4) Any tree or stand of trees designated by resolution of the City Council to be of special 
historical value or of significant community benefit; or
(5) A stand of trees, the nature of which makes each dependent on the others for survival.
(l) Major Pruning means any Pruning of a Street Tree or removal of more than 25% of the crown or 
existing foliage of the Heritage Tree, or any root cutting within a radius of six times the trunk diameter, topping, 
or any other Pruning that has the potential to negatively affect the condition of a tree as determined by the 
Managing Arborist in accordance with the current editions of the American National Standards Institute A-300 
Best Management Practices.
(m) Managing Arborist means a Certified Arborist appointed by the Director to manage the City’s tree 
programs.
(n) Project Arborist means an ISA Certified Arborist designated to evaluate the potential impacts of 
Construction Activity on Protected Trees, write specifications for tree preservation, oversee Construction 
Activity within the Dripline of Protected Trees and other necessary activities as determined by the City Arborist.
(o) Protected Tree means a Heritage Tree, a Street Tree, or a tree designated as protected as part of an 
approved Planning Application that is subject to Chapter 27.71.
13 of 214

--- page 14 ---
(p) Prune means to remove any limb, branch, foliage, or root of a tree.
(q) Removal means:
(1) Cutting to the ground, complete extraction, or killing by spraying, girdling, or any other 
means; or.
(2) Major Pruning not done in conformance with a Major Pruning Permit. 
(r) Replacement Value means the cost to replace a tree as determined by the City Arborist, utilizing the 
most recent edition of the Guide for Plant Appraisal, published by the Council of Tree and Landscape Appraisers.
(s) Street means "Public Right of Way" or all the land which has been dedicated, or condemned, or 
established by use for a public thoroughfare whether paved or unpaved, in whole or in part, except state 
highways and freeways.
(t) Street Tree means any woody perennial plant having a single main axis or stem capable of achieving 
ten feet or more in height, growing along or within public right of way or planted within public right of way or a 
designated planting easement.
(u) Street Tree Master Plan means the document which designates species of trees which may be 
planted on each street by block. 
(v) Tree Protection Plan means a written plan for the preservation of Protected Trees approved by the 
City Arborist in compliance with this Chapter.
(w) Tree Protection Zone (TPZ) means the area surrounding a tree to be protected based upon tree 
species, age, health, soil, and proposed construction. The TPZ shall have a radius measured from the trunk equal 
to ten times the diameter of the trunk measured at 54” above grade or as otherwise specified by a Project 
Arborist and approved by the City Arborist.
Article II. Tree Planting 
13.40.040 Street Tree Planting 
(a) Designation of Street Tree Species. The Director shall designate those tree species existing or 
hereafter planted in the City which are not infested with pests or disease, or hazardous to the public health and 
safety or dangerous to public improvements and utilities as official Street Trees species. 
(b) The Director shall prepare and submit to the Commission for approval and adoption, a 
comprehensive master plan of Street Trees for all Streets of the City where planting areas are available and 
provided for trees. The plan may be revised from time to time and shall be reviewed regularly. In accordance 
with the plan, the Director shall proceed each year to plant or remove and replace trees to the extent that funds 
are made available by the City Council or otherwise exist in the tree planting fund. 
14 of 214

--- page 15 ---
13.40.050 Street Tree Planting Permit Required
No person, other than the Director or his or her authorized representative, shall plant any tree within a 
Street without first procuring a written permit to do so from the Director. The request for such a permit shall 
state the type and quantity of trees to be planted, the location, and such other information as may be required 
by the Director. 
13.40.060 Street Tree Planting Application
In processing an application for a permit, consideration shall be given to the following:
(a) Whether the planting is adaptable to the location proposed;
(b) Whether the planting would involve a hazard to public improvements in the area;
(c) Whether the planting would unduly burden the City in any way with maintenance to prevent 
infestation and/or physical damage to persons or property;
(d) The qualifications of the person or organization proposed to perform the planting and the need for 
experienced personnel considering the type of tree, the location, and adjacent hazards;
(e) The aesthetic result of the proposed planting as well as the benefits to the continued health of the 
planting and plantings in the immediate neighborhood; and
(f) Conformance with the City’s approved Street Tree Master Plan.
Article III. Tree Protection and Preservation
13.40.070 General
(a) Any person who owns, controls, has custody or possession of any real property within the City shall 
use reasonable efforts to maintain and preserve all Protected Trees located thereon in a state of good health, 
structure, and form pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.
(b) The Director shall have the authority to adopt, modify, and implement Administrative Guidelines to 
support this Chapter, except that any changes to the replanting requirements require approval of the Park and 
Recreation Commission.
13.40.080 Discretionary Development Approvals
(a) Any application for discretionary development approval for real property or for any other 
Construction Activity shall be accompanied by a signed statement by the property owner or authorized agent 
which discloses, and shows graphically in the site plans, whether any Protected Trees appear to exist on the 
property or on any property within 30 feet of the proposed Construction Activity and describe on the plans 
associated with the application the location, estimatedtrunk size, and Dripline area.
15 of 214

--- page 16 ---
(b) With regard to any tree required to be identified under section (a) above, any Construction Activity 
performed within a radius measured from the trunk equal to ten times the diameter of the tree trunk measured 
at 54” above grade shall require the preparation and submittal of a Tree Protection Plan for review and approval 
by the City Arborist prior to the issuance of any permit authorizing Construction Activity. The Tree Protection 
Plan shall be prepared by a Certified Arborist and include the following:
(1) The tree location and description (including species, size, condition, and Replacement Value 
if applicable) shown on the land survey or site plans.
(2) Limits of Construction Activity, including but not limited to demolition, grading and drainage, 
site and utility construction, and landscape plan.
(3) Any project-specific tree protection specifications, based on Best Management Practices, in 
addition to the specifications required by the Ordinance.
(4) The Project Arborist’s Tree Protection Plan shall be reproduced on one or more full-size 
sheets of the plan set. The plan set shall also contain a full-size scaled site plan showing the proposed 
work in relation to all Protected Trees, numbered as per the Tree Protection Plan, with accurate 
Driplines, and the location of tree protection measures specified in the Project Arborist’s Tree Protection 
Plan, including but not limited to fencing, trunk wrap, soil protection, areas of excavation by hand, air or 
water. The site plan shall reference the sheet number(s) where the Tree Protection Plan can be found.
(5) Prohibit the following activities within the Tree Protection Zone (TPZ):
(A) Excavation, grading, soil deposit, drainage and leveling unless approved by the City 
Arborist.
(B) Disposal or depositing of oil, gasoline, chemicals, paints, solvents or other materials 
within the TPZ or in drainage channels, swales or areas that may lead to the Dripline.
(C) Soil Compaction from heavy machinery and vehicles, storage of materials, structures, 
paving, etc. 
(D) Trenching or excavation to provide irrigation, utility lines, services, pipe, drainage or 
other improvements below grade.
(E) Storage of any materials or equipment of any kind. 
(F) Parking or driving vehicles or self-propelled equipment.
(G) Alteration of the Dripline so as to increase the encroachment of the construction.
16 of 214

--- page 17 ---
(6) Include provision for the retention of the services of a Project Arborist for periodic 
monitoring of the project site and the health of Protected Trees. The Project Arborist shall be present 
whenever activities occur which will pose a potential threat to the health of the Protected Trees or 
whenever any work needs to be done within the Dripline of such tree.
(7) Include other provisions as deemed necessary by the City Arborist to preserve the Protected 
Trees and ensure compliance with those provisions.
(8) Include all requirements for Construction Activity set forth in (d) below.
(9) Contain the signature of the property owner and building permit applicant.
(c) Tree Protection Plan Review. The Tree Protection Plan shall be reviewed by the City Arborist. If the 
plan is sufficient to prevent harm to Protected Trees from reasonably foreseeable construction activities, it shall 
be approved and related building permits otherwise complete shall issue.  
(d) Construction Activities must adhere to the following requirements :
(1) Utility service and irrigation lines must be located outside of the Dripline or approved TPZ 
when feasible and, if not feasible, provisions must be made in the Tree Protection Plan by the Project 
Arborist to protect the soil within the Dripline from compaction and to protect the trunk and branches 
from injury.
(2) Prior to the commencement of any Construction Activity, all tree protection measures shall 
be properly installed, including but not limited to, tree protection fencing, trunk wrap, and root buffer. A 
six-foot tall chain link fence shall be required. If the fencing cannot be placed at the Dripline or if 
necessary Construction Activity must take place within the Dripline, provisions must be made in the Tree 
Protection Plan by the Project Arborist to protect the soil within the Dripline from compaction and to 
protect the trunk and branches from injury. The Dripline shall not be altered in any way so as to increase 
the encroachment of the construction.
(3) The City Building Official and Managing Arborist must be notified whenever any Damage or 
injury occurs to a Protected Tree during construction so that proper treatment may be administered.
13.40.090 Pruning and Removal of Protected Trees –Permit Required.
(a) Heritage Trees. A permit from the Director is required before Major Pruning or Removal, or causing 
Major Pruning or Removal. 
(b) Street Trees. No person or entity, other than City staff shall Prune or cause to be Pruned, below or 
above the ground, or remove or cause to be removed, any Street Tree without first procuring a permit to do so 
from the Director. 
17 of 214

--- page 18 ---
(c) Emergency Removal of Street Trees. All Street Trees presenting an immediate threat to health and 
safety, including obstructed public right-of-way, may be removed by the City without notice.
(d) Any franchised public utility or representative of the City may Remove or Prune Protected Trees 
which interfere with the safe and efficient operation of the public service for which they are responsible, but 
only to the extent made necessary by such interference. 
13.40.100 Major Pruning or Removal Permit Application 
(a) Major Pruning and Removal for Projects Subject to Chapter 27.71 Planning Application 
Requirements.  Projects for which planning application approval is required pursuant to Chapter 27.71 of the 
Municipal Code must comply with the conditions of approval related to Protected Trees.
(b) All Other Major Pruning and Removal of Protected Trees or Pruning and Removal of Street Trees.  All 
other Protected Tree Major Pruning and Removal projects must be conducted in accordance with an approved 
Major Pruning or Removal Permit as set forth below:
(1) Application. The application for a permit shall be made on forms provided for this purpose 
and shall state, among other things, the number and location of the trees to be Removed or Pruned by 
types and the reason for Removal or Major Pruning of each. The request for a Removal permit may only 
be made by the owner of the property on which the tree is located.  Requests for a Major Pruning 
permit may be made by the owner of a property onto which tree parts extend, after the applicant has 
notified the tree owner of the application. Permits are valid for six months from date of issue. 
Extensions may be authorized by the Director. Major Pruning permit applications shall include Pruning 
specifications prepared by a Certified Arborist in accordance with the most recent ANSI Standards and 
the ISA Best Management Practices publications.
(2) Decision by Managing Arborist. The Managing Arborist shall review each application and 
shall consider and evaluate the following:
(3) In rendering a decision regarding Major Pruning:
(A) Current tree condition as well as potential impact to future tree condition;
(B) Danger to people or property; and
(C) Interference with existing structures or utilities; and
(4) In rendering a decision regarding tree Removal;
(A) Factors listed above;
(B) Necessity to remove the tree or trees in order to allow reasonable economic 
enjoyment of the property; 
(C) Effect of tree Removal on erosion and soil retention;
18 of 214

--- page 19 ---
(D) Effect of tree Removal on neighborhood; and
(E) Number of trees a particular parcel can support in accordance with good forestry 
practices.
(5) In reviewing applications, the Managing Arborist shall give priority to those based on hazard. 
(S)he may refer any application to another department, committee, board or commission of the City for 
a report and recommendation or may require the applicant to supply a Certified Arborist's report.
(6) The cost of all work authorized by the permit shall be borne by the party securing the permit. 
13.40.110 Protected Tree Replacement. 
If a permit is granted for Protected Tree Removal, the applicant shall at his or her election either replace 
the tree in accordance with the Administrative Guidelines or pay an in-lieu fee.  Permits for Removal may 
contain direction on location and species. 
13.40.120 Notification
A decision by the Managing Arborist shall be rendered for each permit application. If a permit is 
approved, it will include conditions for the tree Pruning or Removal. With the exception of trees the Managing 
Arborist determines to be dead or at imminent risk of failure, the Managing Arborist shall give written 
notification of a decision affecting a Heritage Tree to the applicant and abutting property owners and include a 
copy of the City’s appeal provisions. If such real property is occupied by other than the owner, a like copy shall 
also be left with the occupant. The failure of any property owner to receive the notice shall not affect the 
validity of any proceedings taken pursuant to the notice.
13.40.130 Appeal of Permit Decision.
(a) Appeal to Director. With the exception of decisions approving Pruning or Removal of Protected Trees 
determined to be dead or at imminent risk of failure by the Managing Arborist, decisions of the Managing 
Arborist may be appealed to the Director by submitting the City’s appeal form.  Any appellants other than the 
applicant must pay an appeal fee in accordance with the City’s master fee schedule. The appeal must be filed 
with the Director not later than five p.m. of the tenth calendar day after the Managing Arborist’s decision. The 
Director shall review the request and render a decision.
(b) Appeal of Director’s Decision. Any person may appeal the Director’s decision to the Park and 
Recreation Commission by filing an appeal in writing with the Director not later than five p.m. of the tenth 
calendar day after the decision.  Any appellants other than the applicant must pay an appeal fee in accordance 
with the City’s master fee schedule. The Director shall set the matter for review by the Commission at its next 
convenient regular meeting and provide notice by mail of the Commission hearing to the appellant and 
applicant at least five days prior thereto. The Commission hearing shall be de novo.
(c) Appeal of Commission’s Decision. The Commission’s decision may be appealed to the City Council in 
the same manner as to the Commission by filing a written appeal and with the City Clerk not later than five p.m. 
of the tenth calendar day after the final decision.  Any appellants other than the applicant must pay an appeal 
19 of 214

--- page 20 ---
fee in accordance with the City’s master fee schedule.  The City Clerk shall set the matter for hearing before the 
City Council at its next convenient regular meeting which is at least ten days after receipt of the appeal. Notice 
of the hearing shall be given the appellant and the applicant for permit by mail at least five calendar days prior 
to the date of the hearing. The City Council hearing shall be de novo and the decision of the City Council shall be 
final.
Article IV. Violations and Remedies
13.40.140 Violations.
(a) It is unlawful for any person or entity to engage in, or cause, Major Pruning or Removal of a 
Protected Tree in the City without obtaining a permit to do so. This applies to any owner, possessor or manager 
of property who engages in Major Pruning or removes or allows or instructs another to engage in Major Pruning 
or remove a Protected Tree and to any other person, tree removal company or other entity that actually 
removes or participates in the Major Pruning or Removal of the Protected Tree. 
(b) It is unlawful for any person or entity to:
(1) cause Damage to a Protected Tree compromising its health or structural integrity according 
to accepted industry standards;
(2) to cause Damage that is severely detrimental to its overall aesthetics;
(3) to remove fencing or other protective barrier surrounding a Protected Tree that was 
required as a condition of development on the property; 
(4) to violate any provisions of this Chapter or the terms of any permit or Tree Protection Plan 
issued in accordance with this Chapter; or
(5) knowingly or negligently providing false or misleading information in response to any 
disclosure requirements of this Chapter or in application for any permit issued under this Chapter.
(c) Citizen complaints regarding a potential violation must be received by the Managing Arborist within 
one year of the alleged violation.
(d) When a tree has been removed from the site and its diameter is no longer visible, the Managing 
Arborist may rely on a stump measurement and allow use of photographs, neighboring trees, and or any other 
available methods to determine the diameter of the tree that was removed.
13.40.150 Remedies
In all cases where Protected Trees are removed or Damaged unlawfully, the Director may require 
replacement by anyone participating in an unlawful act as follows:
(a) Heritage Tree Removal.  Heritage Trees removed without a valid tree Removal permit shall be 
replaced with one 48” box tree or the equivalent as set forth in the Administrative Guidelines.  Enhanced replant 
20 of 214

--- page 21 ---
conditions may be imposed if the Director determines that the value of the removed tree was greater than that 
of a 48” box tree. In such cases, the Director shall determine the level of replacement, which may not exceed 
the tree’s Replacement Value. In addition to the requirements of this subsection, penalties in accordance with 
this Chapter or other sanctions allowed by law may be imposed for Removal of Heritage Trees without a permit.
(b) Street Tree Removal.  Tree replacement shall be in accordance with the Street Tree Master Plan and 
shall be a maximum of one 48" box tree for each Street Tree removed, as determined in the discretion of the 
Director. Replacement, as determined by the Director, may be in a different location than the location from 
which Removal occurred.
(c) Street Tree Pruning.  In the event Pruning of a Street Tree or other cause results in Damage to the 
tree compromising its health or structural integrity or is severely detrimental to its overall form, the Director 
may require replacement by the person or entity causing the Damage.
(d) If the Street Tree that is removed is a Heritage Tree, the provisions for replacement of Heritage Trees 
shall apply.
(e) Where the Director determines that replacement is not feasible and/or appropriate, the Director 
may:
(1) require that a payment of equal value to the cost of the purchase and installation of the 
replacement tree(s) be made to the City tree planting fund; or 
(2) place other conditions on the permit which are of equal value to the cost of the purchase 
and installation of the replacement tree(s). 
(f) Additional Measures for All Protected Trees.  Any person causing Damage to a Protected Tree shall be 
required to take such steps as may be required by the Director to assure the future vitality of the tree, including 
costs of treatment and/or construction of protective barriers, or if the Director determines that the Damage is 
so great that the tree is no longer reasonably sustainable, replacement of the Damaged tree.
13.40.160 Penalties.
(a) In addition to the replanting requirements described above, if the Director finds that any person has 
violated any provisions of this Chapter, the Director may impose a civil penalty of up to $10,000 per participant 
per tree for such illegal act and the civil penalty amount will be determined based upon the egregiousness of the 
conduct in accordance with Chapter 1.11.
(b) In addition to all other remedies set forth in this code or otherwise provided by law, the following 
remedies shall be available to the City for violation of this Chapter:
(1) Any person or entity violating the provisions of this Chapter may be directed by the Building 
Official or inspector to stop work and to prepare a mitigation plan to correct the violation and mitigate 
the Damage inflicted. Once the violation is corrected and mitigation implemented, the Building Official 
or inspector shall allow construction to resume. The mitigation plan shall be filed and approved by the 
City Arborist, agreed to in writing by the property owner(s) and either implemented or guaranteed by 
21 of 214

--- page 22 ---
the posting of adequate bond or other security. The mitigation plan shall include measures for 
protection of any remaining Protected Trees on the property and shall provide for replacement of each 
tree removed or Damaged on the property or at locations approved by the Director. The replacement 
ratio shall be determined by the Director according to the provisions of this Chapter.
(2) If a violation occurs in the absence of development, or while an application for a building 
permit or discretionary development approval for the lot upon which the tree is located is pending, the 
Building Official may condition the issuance of any building permit or approval upon the completion of a 
study, to be conducted by the City or consultant designated by the City, but in either case at the expense 
of the property owner, for the purpose of providing the City an opportunity to consider and determine 
appropriate mitigation measures for the tree Removal and to insure measures are incorporated into any 
future development approvals for the property for the protection of any remaining Heritage Trees in the 
area.
(3) Administrative Citations may be issued under Chapter 1.10 of the Municipal Code.
(c) Appeal of Penalties or Replacement requirements. Any person required to provide replacement or 
assessed penalties shall have the right to appeal that determination to the City Manager by submitting a written 
appeal to the City Manager within 30 days of the date of the Managing Arborist’s written notice imposing the 
penalty.  The City Manager will hold an administrative hearing within 30 days of receipt of the written appeal 
and will render a written decision within 30 days of the administrative hearing. The decision of the City Manager 
shall be final.
Section 4. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15061(b)(3), this action is not a project subject to CEQA because it is intended to protect 
existing trees and therefore will not significantly impact the environment.
Section 5. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 6. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 7. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective on July 1, 2021.
22 of 214

--- page 23 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4585
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Department
MEETING DATE:
May 03, 2021 
SUBJECT:
City Council Guidelines and Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures – Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the amendments to the City Council Guidelines and to the Boards and Commissioner Rules and Procedures. 
BACKGROUND:
At its April 19, 2021 special meeting, the City Council reviewed proposed amendments to both the City Council Guidelines 
(Guidelines) and the Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures (Procedures) and provided direction on additional 
changes. The specific language amendments are detailed in track changes in Attachment 1 for the Guidelines and in 
Attachment 2 for the Procedures. 
In addition to minor adjustments throughout the Guidelines, there are 10 main areas addressed with this update including 
direction on: 1) adjourning meetings due to a power outage; 2) expanding appeals for tenant relocation hearings; 3) 
establishing parameters on ceremonial items; 4) clarification on the process for Council to request to schedule a future 
agenda item; 5) comprehensive update to the financial matters section; 6) inclusion of social media policies in the 
communication section; 7) guidance on the process for when there is a pressing and urgent need to respond to legislation; 
8) streamlining the annual Council Appointments and Liaison process; 9) guidance on the City Selection Committee 
process; and 10) clarification on the reappointment process for Boards and Commissions and guidance on establishing a 
eligibility list after interviews. 
The Procedures mostly mirror the Guidelines, except the financial section and legislative section are not required in the 
Commission document. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this administrative action. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This policy amendment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - City Council Guidelines
Att 2 - Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures
23 of 214

--- page 24 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
24 of 214

--- page 25 ---
City Council Guidelines 
 
 
Adopted on August 17, 2015 
by Resolution No. 82 (2015) 
Amended by Council action on January 17, 2017,  
Amended by Council action on April 17, 2017, 
Amended by Council action on April 16, 2018, 
Amended by Council action on May 21, 2018, 
Amended by Council action onand  _________2021 
 
 
25 of 214

--- page 26 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
2 
 
City of San Mateo, Council Guidelines 
Table of Contents 
 
1. 
Purpose and Overview ........................................................................................................... 3 
2. 
Authority of the City Council.................................................................................................. 4 
3. 
Duties ..................................................................................................................................... 5 
4. 
Selection of Mayor and Deputy Mayor .................................................................................. 8 
5. 
Council Member Conduct .................................................................................................... 10 
6. 
Meetings .............................................................................................................................. 11 
7. 
Meeting Agendas ................................................................................................................. 16 
8. 
Financial Matters ................................................................................................................. 19 
9. 
Communication .................................................................................................................... 24 
10. Legislative ............................................................................................................................. 29 
11. Council Liaison Roles ............................................................................................................ 32 
12. Boards and Commissions ..................................................................................................... 35 
13. References ....................................................................................................................... 3837 
 
 
 
26 of 214

--- page 27 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
3 
Chapter 1. 
Purpose and Overview  
This handbook provides guidelines for the San Mateo City Council that describe the way the 
Council does its business. It is a compilation of all Council-related rules and procedures that 
have been formally adopted by Council.  
The purpose of these guidelines is to set a standard of professionalism for the conduct of the 
City Council’s business. San Mateo has a long and proud tradition of open government and civil, 
intelligent public discourse. These guidelines are intended to enhance public participation and 
Council debate so that the best possible decisions can be made for San Mateo.  
Revisions to these Guidelines 
These guidelines, which must be approved by the City Council as a body, are subject to review 
and future modification as needed. 
City Council Vision 
The City Council’s vision and strategic goals can be found on the City’s website: 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?nid=167 
 
 
 
27 of 214

--- page 28 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
4 
Chapter 2. 
Authority of the City Council 
1. 
The City Council is the policy and lawmaking body of the City. State and local laws define 
the powers and responsibilities of the City Council. 
2. 
General Authorities and Applicability 
Charter section 2.12 and the San Mateo Municipal Code provide that the City Council shall 
determine its own rules and order of business. When not in conflict with the Charter of 
the City of San Mateo, or the Constitution or laws of the State of California, these City 
Council Guidelines (“Guidelines”) shall be in effect upon adoption by resolution of the 
Council. 
3. 
Revisions to these Rules 
The Council shall review and revise these Guidelines as needed. 
4. 
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order 
To the extent these Guidelines do not address an issue of parliamentary procedure for 
legislative body meetings, Rosenberg’s Rules of Order: Simple Parliamentary Procedures 
for the 21st Century shall apply. 
 
 
28 of 214

--- page 29 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
5 
Chapter 3. 
Duties 
1. 
Duties of the Council 
A. 
Refer to the City of San Mateo Charter for a detailed description of codified duties 
of the City Council. 
B. 
Disaster Responsibilities 
1. 
In the event of a disaster, the City Council holds the following roles: 
a. 
Primarily, to make decisions that will enable the emergency 
operation to continue effectively. 
b. 
To liaison to other governmental agencies that are responding to 
the disaster.  
c. 
To assist in the conveyance of public information. 
2. 
See the “Elected Officials’ Guide to Managing Disasters” from the California 
Office of Emergency Services for a detailed description of the roles and 
responsibilities of Council Members in times of disaster.  
2. 
Duties of Mayor 
A. 
To conduct meetings of the City Council as its chairperson. 
1. 
Ensure that consideration of items on the agenda move along without 
delay. 
2. 
Ensure that petitioners, proponents and opponents are heard but not 
allowed to disrupt the meeting.  
3. 
Ensure that decorum is maintained at the meeting. 
4. 
In presiding over matters where the public has provided testimony and/or 
raised questions, the Mayor should: 
a. 
Restate the question coming before the Council.  
b. 
Direct questions or comments requiring a response to staff for a 
response.  
c. 
Ensure that staff and members of the public direct their comments 
to the chair. 
29 of 214

--- page 30 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
6 
d. 
If necessary, help keep Council Member questions relevant to the 
matter being considered by the Council. 
e. 
If necessary, consider calling for a brief recess if orderly conduct of 
the meeting is being disrupted.  
f. 
Announce the decision of the Council on all subjects. 
5. 
To ensure that each member of the Council is provided an opportunity to 
completely express their views on items of business, the Mayor should: 
a. 
See that Council Members ask to be recognized by the Mayor 
before speaking. 
b. 
Ensure that each Council Member is given the opportunity to fully 
express their views. 
B. 
To represent City Government as its chief elected official at community functions, 
events, meetings, and business outreach and retention visits. 
C. 
On behalf of the City Council, to officially welcome dignitaries, officials, and 
gatherings. 
D. 
To vote on behalf of the Council at regional meetings such as the San Mateo 
County Council of Cities/City Selection Committee; provided that the vote is not 
inconsistent with established policies or previously expressed Council consensus. 
This is expected protocol for any Council Member who represents the City on any 
regional bodies. 
E. 
To correspond on behalf of the Council on subjects, issues, and legislative 
proposals provided that opinions expressed on behalf of the Council or City 
Government are not inconsistent with established policies or previously expressed 
Council consensus.  
F. 
To vote as the City’s “voting delegate” at the League of California Cities Annual 
Conference and other similar meetings. This responsibility may be delegated to 
another Council Member. 
G. 
To review the agendas of meetings of the City Council and participate in their 
preparation as necessary. 
H. 
To recommend Council Members for liaison positions on various boards, 
commissions and agencies. The Mayor’s recommendations shall be discussed and 
confirmed by a majority vote of the Council and are subject to change. 
I. 
To serve as the City’s primary contact for the media. 
30 of 214

--- page 31 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
7 
J. 
Nothing under the Mayor’s duties shall limit any individual Council Member’s 
ability to interact with members of the public. 
3. 
Duties of Deputy Mayor 
In the absence of the mMayor from the City or a Council meeting, the Deputy Mayor shall 
possess all powers of the office of the Mayor,; and be subject to all prescribed duties for 
that office. 
4. 
Duties of Council Members 
A. 
Arrive on time for all Council meetings. 
B. 
Review all meeting materials in preparation for Council meetings. 
C. 
Fulfill the liaison assignments to external agencies, legislators, and the City’s 
boards and commissions. 
 
 
31 of 214

--- page 32 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
8 
Chapter 4. 
Selection of Mayor and Deputy Mayor 
1. 
City Council reorganization, including rotation of the office of Mayor and Deputy Mayor 
occurs annually at the regular meeting in December.  
2. 
The City Council believes that experience as a Council Member will assist those who are 
selected to serve as Mayor or Deputy Mayor, and that it is in the City’s best interest that 
these selections be made in a manner that permits the Mayor and Deputy Mayor to gain 
that experience in cycles of governing and to acclimate themselves to the jobs, tasks, and 
roles prior to assuming their respective offices.  
3. 
It is appropriate to base such succession on rotation, seniority and election results 
according to the following: 
A. 
Each Council Member has a specified position in the rotation sequence. In any 
year, the first person in the sequence is typically selected as Mayor, and the 
second in the sequence as the Deputy Mayor.  
B. 
After serving as Mayor, that Council Member moves to the end of the rotation 
sequence, and the other four Council Members move forward. 
C. 
When a Council Member is newly elected or appointed (as the result of a cancelled 
election), that new Council Member goes into the fourth position in the rotation, 
after all incumbents, but before the current outgoing Mayor.  
D. 
If two or more Council Members are newly elected at the same time, the number 
of votes received in the election determines the position in the sequence, with the 
new Council Member receiving the highest number of votes being the first among 
the new Council Members. 
E. 
If two or more Council Members are newly appointed at the same time, (as the 
result of a cancelled election), the newly appointed Council Members shall draw 
straws to determine their position relative to one another in the rotational 
sequence.  
F. 
If a Council Member is appointed to fill a mid-term vacancy, that Council Member 
will go to the bottom of the rotational list. 
G. 
Incumbent Council Members, when re-elected, do not begin anew at the bottom 
of the list, but rather retain their placement in the rotation. 
H. 
If for any reason (death, resignation, recall, not seeking re-election, etc.) a Council 
Member is removed from the rotation, the remaining Council Members move 
forward in the sequence.  
32 of 214

--- page 33 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
9 
I. 
A Council Member may decline to serve as Mayor or Deputy Mayor. In this case, 
the office would pass to the next Council Member on the list. The Council Member 
who declined may drop back one position in the rotation. 
4. 
When the Council reorganizes, the outgoing Mayor will nominate the Deputy Mayor to 
succeed him/her. The newly appointed Mayor will then nominate the next Council 
Member in the rotational sequence to serve as Deputy Mayor for the coming year. 
5. 
The process described above shall guide the council’s selection of the Mayor and Deputy 
Mayor; however, a majority of the City Council retains the authority to disregard the 
process and select any member of the City Council for these positions. 
6. 
The City Clerk shall keep a list outlining the suggested rotational sequence and update it 
annually. 
 
 
33 of 214

--- page 34 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
10 
Chapter 5. 
Council Member Conduct 
1. 
Members shall: 
A. 
put constituents first at all times; 
B. 
treat each other, staff, and members of the public with dignity, courtesy, and 
respect; 
C. 
maintain confidentiality of all closed session materials and discussion; 
D. 
be attentive to others, limiting interruptions and distractions; 
E. 
encourage diverse viewpoints in debate while being mindful not to prolong 
discourse or block consensus; 
F. 
agree to respectfully disagree; 
G. 
keep comments clear, concise, and on-topic; 
H. 
start and end meetings on time, work from the agenda; 
I. 
present problems in a way that promotes discussion and resolution; and 
2. 
Council Members shall not participate as a volunteer in any of the City’s operating 
departments. 
3. 
Council Members are subject to all the provisions of the City’s Harassment, Discrimination 
and Reasonable Accommodations for Disabilities Policy (#301). 
 
 
34 of 214

--- page 35 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
11 
Chapter 6. 
Meetings 
1. 
All Council decisions must be taken at City Council meetings. Before taking action, the City 
Council may be informed by project applicants, interested members of the public, and 
City staff. 
2. 
No business may be transacted by the Council at a regular or special meeting unless a 
quorum of the membership is present (50% plus one of those currently serving). 
3. 
Council Meeting Dates 
A. 
If at any time any regular meeting of the Council falls on a holiday, the regular 
meeting shall be held on the next business day or the earliest business day within 
a week. 
B. 
Once a year, adopt a schedule of Council meetings for the following year 
identifying any regular meeting dates that need to move due to major holidays. 
C. 
Meeting dates may be amended with the approval of the Council. 
4. 
Types of Meetings 
A. 
Regular Meetings are conducted at City Hall Council Chambers on the first and 
third Monday nights of each month. In July, August, and December, only one 
meeting is held during the month. The meetings begin at 7:00 p.m. It is City policy 
to make every effort to complete and distribute the agenda and related reports by 
the preceding Thursday. For major complex projects and policies, the City will 
make every effort to distribute reports two weeks prior to as early as possible 
before the meeting when the item will be considered. 
B. 
Special Meetings are called at a non-regular meeting date and time. They are 
called by the Mayor or Council with a minimum of 24 hours’ notice, versus 72 
hours’ notice for regular meetings. 
C. 
Study Sessions are special meetings that are held for the purpose of providing 
information to the City Council, particularly on issues that are more complex or 
more time-consuming than matters typically scheduled on a regular City Council 
meeting. At study sessions Council Members may state their individual responses 
and questions to the information provided and may collectively provide direction 
to City staff. No action is taken at the study sessions, but direction may be given. 
D. 
Closed Sessions can be part of either special or regular meetings. The Council 
conducts its business in public to the greatest extent possible. State law recognizes 
that public discussion of certain items could jeopardize the public interest, 
compromise the City’s position, or cost the citizens of San Mateo financially, and, 
35 of 214

--- page 36 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
12 
therefore, generally allows the City Council to hold closed session meetings for the 
consideration of certain personnel matters, labor negotiations, real property 
negotiations, matters of public security, and the discussion of litigation, among 
other things. These rules provide for strict confidentiality of City Council discussion 
as required by State law. The procedures for the conduct of the closed sessions 
shall be the same as those for open session meetings, except that the public, after 
an opportunity for public comment, are excluded. 
E. 
Emergency Meetings are allowed per the Ralph M. Brown Act when an emergency 
situation involving matters upon which prompt action is necessary due to the 
disruption or threatened disruption of the public’s well-being.  
F. 
Adjourned Meetings due to Power Outages 
In the event a quorum of the City Council loses electrical power or suffers an 
internet connection outage not corrected within 15 minutes, the meeting will be 
adjourned to a date certain. Any items noticed as public hearings will be continued 
to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council. Any other agenda 
items the Council has not taken action on will be placed on a future agenda. 
E. 
 
5. 
Voting 
A motion, second, and a majority vote of the Council shall be required for any formal 
action of Council. 
6. 
The Mayor, with the approval of a majority of the Council, can change the order of 
hearing of items on the agenda. 
7. 
Public Participation 
A. 
Members of the public are encouraged and invited to participate in the legislative 
process by submitting written comments before the meeting or speaking in person 
at a meeting. 
B. 
It is the intent of these rules to allow everyone to be heard without fear of jeers or 
cheers that may discourage public participation. For this reason, these rules are 
taken seriously. Disruptive or unruly behavior may result in removal from the 
Council meeting. 
C. 
Time Limits for public comment: 
1. 
Individual Speakers - 3 minutes 
36 of 214

--- page 37 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
13 
2. 
Organized group (in lieu of individual speakers) – up to 15 minutes,  for a 
group presentation, as many speakers are allowed as fit in that time 
allowance 
3. 
The Mayor may, at his/hertheir discretion, limit the amount of time 
allotted to the speaker(s)when needed 
D. 
Members of the public are invited to speak at the lectern microphone to ensure all 
attendees can hear and so that it can be captured on the video recording. 
E. 
Individuals who wish to speak should submit a speaker card to the City Clerk to be 
called up at the appropriate time. 
8. 
Agendized Discussion Items (Public Hearings, New Business, Old Business) 
A. 
Staff / applicant presentation 
B. 
Council questions to applicant and/or staff 
C. 
Open public hearing (or public comment section) for commentstestimony 
D. 
Close public hearing (or public comment section) 
E. 
Response by staff to public questions/concerns, if warranted 
F. 
Council discussion and deliberation 
G. 
Council votes 
9. 
Appeals 
A. 
Appeals are public hearings and will follow the order stated in #87 with the 
following time allocations: 
1. 
Appellant – 15 min 
2. 
Individual Speakers – 3 min 
3. 
Rebuttal – 5 min 
4. 
If the appellant is not the applicant, the applicant shall also have 15 min, 
following the Appellant 
4.5. 
Tenant Relocation Appeals Hearings – both the Landlord and the Tenant 
shall each be given 15 minutes to present, and each shall have 5 minute 
rebuttal 
37 of 214

--- page 38 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
14 
B. 
Appeals from decisions of the City’s Boards and Commissions shall appear on the 
Council agenda for discussion. Council determines whether to affirm the action of 
the commission, refer the matter back to the commission, or reverse the decision.  
C. 
Any person that addressed the Council during one of the fifteen-minute periods 
may not speak again during the public comment period for individual speakers on 
the appeal.  
10. Items Considered after 11:00 p.m. 
At 11:00 pm Council will determine with a majority vote or consensus whether to 
continue with an item or if they will take up any remaining unheard items. 
11. Action Minutes 
A. 
The City Council shall use Action Minutes (action minutes contain very little, if any, 
narrative content) or light summary at the discretion of the City Clerk, to record 
their proceedings. 
B. 
Motions and votes are shown in the record. 
C. 
Media (audio/video) recordings will be used in order to provide a verbatim record 
of meetings as identified in the City’s Records Retention Schedule. 
12. Conflict of Interest 
A. 
The Political Reform Act (PRA), implemented, regulated and enforced by the Fair 
Political Practices Commission (FPPC), controls financial conflicts of interest.  
B. 
The other applicable law is Government Code §1090, which applies only to City 
contracts in which a public official has a financial interest. 
C. 
Whenever it appears to a Council Member they may have a prohibited financial 
interest in any City contract, or an item that may be presented to the City Council, 
the Council Member should consult with the City Attorney at the earliest 
opportunity for advice on whether a disqualifying conflict of interest exists.  
D. 
If the City Attorney is consulted on such a matter, the City Attorney shall provide 
their advice in writing, and shall provide a copy of their opinion to the City Council, 
the City Manager, and the City Clerk. 
E. 
With full consideration of the City Attorney’s advice, it is up to each individual 
Council Member to decide for him/herself whether there is a conflict of interest. 
F. 
A member shall not vote upon any matter on which s/hethey have a conflict of 
interest. 
38 of 214

--- page 39 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
15 
G. 
A member shall openly state the reason for his/hertheir conflict of interest. 
H. 
A member who is disqualified by a conflict of interest shall recuse him/herself 
from the dais and leave the room unless it is during the Consent Calendar. 
 
 
39 of 214

--- page 40 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
16 
Chapter 7. 
Meeting Agendas 
1. 
Agenda Order 
City Council agendas will be prepared by the City Clerk and presented to the City Council 
in the order described below. 
A. 
Opening 
1. 
Pledge of Allegiance 
2. 
Roll Call 
B. 
Ceremonial matters 
The presentation and receipt of ceremonial resolutions and celebrations not 
requiring formal legislative action. In order to ensure the business of the meeting 
can be handled timely, no more than three (3) items will be scheduled under 
ceremonial in any meeting; only one speaker representing the group; and no more 
than three (3) presentation slides may be used.  
C. 
Consent Calendar 
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be 
routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If discussion is 
desired, that item may be removed and considered separately. 
D. 
Public Comment 
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the 
agenda may address the City Council at this time. State law prevents Council from 
taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Comments may be referred to staff 
for follow up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an 
opportunity for additional public comment will be provided later in the agenda, if 
needed. 
E. 
Public Hearing 
Duly noticed hearings as mandated by local, state, or federal law, providing an 
opportunity for public review and comment of a proposed action by the Council. 
F. 
Old Business 
Non-routine items that have been presented before that require further oral 
presentation and/or discussion before action is taken. 
G. 
New Business 
40 of 214

--- page 41 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
17 
Non-routine items requiring an oral presentation and discussion before action is 
taken. 
H. 
Reports and Announcements 
City Manager, City Attorney, and Council Members report on their various 
assignments and liaison roles, and Council Members may make individual requests 
to schedule future items for consideration. A majority vote of Council is required 
to place a request on a future agenda. If a Council Member is going to make a 
request to agendize an item, such as a resolution of support, a copy of the 
proposed resolution should be send no later than the time of the agenda packet 
issuance in order to give the other Council Members adequate time to review and 
determine if it is something they would like to support. 
I. 
Additional Public Comment (if needed) 
J. 
Adjourn 
2. 
Agenda Item Submission 
A. 
Persons who can place matters on the agenda: City Manager or City Attorney 
B. 
Council Member:  
1. 
A Council Member may request an item be considered on a future agenda 
and, upon agreement through a vote of a majority of Council, staff will 
prepare an staff reportagenda report and place the item on a future 
agenda. Before the vote staff will provide information on how much staff 
time is estimated to be required to produce the agenda report. 
2. 
Council Members may make this request verbally during a meeting or may 
submit a written request.  
C. 
Members of the Public  
1. 
A member of the public may request Council action in the following ways: 
a. 
Write a letter to the City Council 
b. 
Speak during the Public Comment period at a City Council meeting 
c. 
Attend annual Council goal setting meeting and provide input 
2. 
Upon agreement of a majority of the City Council, Council will determine 
whether to place on a future agenda an item requested by the public. 
41 of 214

--- page 42 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
18 
 
 
42 of 214

--- page 43 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
19 
Chapter 8. 
Financial Matters 
1. 
Council Member Compensation 
A. 
State law sets the overall level of compensation for City Council Members 
(California Government Code § 36516). 
B. 
Compensation of Council Members is set by Resolution (see the San Mateo City 
Charter, Section 2.03 Compensation). 
C. 
Council Member benefits are established in San Mateo City Charter, Section 2.04 
Benefits and Expenses. 
D. 
A full explanation of Council Member compensation is available on the City’s 
website. 
2. 
City Council Expense Reimbursement Policy 
A. 
Authorized Expenses 
1. 
City funds, equipment, supplies, titles, and staff time must only be used for 
authorized city business. Expenses incurred in connection with the 
following types of activities generally constitute authorized expenses, as 
long as the other requirements of this policy are met: 
a. 
Communicating with representatives of regional, state, and national 
government on matters of interest to the City. 
b. 
Meeting with City staff on matters relating to City business. 
c. 
Attending educational seminars designed to improve officials’ skill 
and information levels. 
d. 
Participating in local, regional, state, and national organizations 
whose activities effect the City’s interests; however, a member of 
the City Council shall not accept an elected or appointed position 
that would require anticipated costs to the City of more than $100 
annually without City Council approval. 
e. 
Recognizing the service to the City (for example, thanking a 
longtime employee with a retirement gift of nominal value). 
f. 
Attending fundraising events for nonprofit entities providing 
services of benefit to the City and /or its residents. 
g. 
Attending City events. 
43 of 214

--- page 44 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
20 
h. 
Implementing a City approved strategy for attracting or retaining 
businesses to the City, which will typically involve at least one staff 
member. 
2. 
All other expenses require prior approval by the City Council. 
3. 
The City will not reimburse the following expenses: 
a. 
The personal portion of any trip. 
b. 
Political contributions or events. 
c. 
Family expenses, including partner’s expenses when accompanying 
official on agency-related business. 
d. 
Entertainment expenses, such as movies, sporting events, or 
cultural events. 
e. 
Non-mileage personal automobile expenses, including repairs, 
citations, insurance or gasoline. 
B. 
Cost Control 
To conserve City resources and keep expenses within community standards for 
public officials, expenditures should adhere to the following guidelines. If expenses 
are incurred that exceed these guidelines, the cost borne or reimbursed by the 
City will be limited to the costs that fall within these guidelines. If no discounted 
airfare is available through these entities, then the most reasonable and 
economical airfare possible.  
1. 
Airfare 
Airfares that are equal to or less than those available through the League of 
California Cities, the California State Association of Counties and the State 
of California are presumed to be the most economical and reasonable for 
purposes of reimbursement under this policy.  If no discounted airfare is 
available through these entities, then the most reasonable and economical 
airfare possible should be utilized. 
2. 
Airport Parking 
Long-term parking must be used for travel exceeding 24 hours. 
3. 
Automobile 
44 of 214

--- page 45 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
21 
Mileage shall be reimbursed at IRS rates presently in effect (see 
www.irs.gov). These rates are designed to compensate the driver for 
gasoline, insurance, maintenance, and other expenses. In addition, drivers 
may be reimbursed for bridge and road tolls. For rental vehicles, only 
receipted fuel expenses will be reimbursed. 
4. 
Car Rental 
Rental rates that are equal or less than those available through the State of 
California’s website 
https://www.dgs.ca.gov/OFAM/Travel/Resources/Page-
Content/Resources-List-Folder/Car-Rental-Resources 
(http://www.catravelsmart.com/default.htm) shall be considered the most 
economical and reasonable for purposes of reimbursement under this 
policy. 
5. 
Conferences/Meetings 
If such lodging is in connection with a conference, lodging expenses must 
not exceed the group rate published by the conference sponsor for the 
meeting in question if such rates are available at the time of booking. If the 
group rate is not available, rates that are equal to or less than the group 
rate at the host hotel are presumed to be reasonable and reimbursable for 
purposes of this policy. 
6. 
Internet 
Officials will be reimbursed for Internet access connection and/or usage 
fees away from home, if Internet access is necessary for City business. 
7. 
Lodging 
Lodging expenses will be reimbursed or paid for when travel on official City 
business reasonably requires an overnight stay.Council members are 
expected to select the most cost-effective and logical lodging available, 
including utilizing the lodging at the conference/training site, if available. If 
there is not specific lodging associated with the official City business, the 
City shall pay for actual lodging expenses up to the United States General 
Services Administration (GSA) maximum rate allowed by location 
(http://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/104877). This maximum applies to 
the room rate only and does not include any taxes or fees. Government 
rates for lodging are often available and should be sought. The City will pay 
only for standard single rooms, including taxes and fees, for individual 
Council members, and any additional nonbusiness expenses incurred will 
be paid by the Council member 
45 of 214

--- page 46 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
22 
8. 
Meals 
Reimbursable meal expenses and associated gratuities will not exceed the 
following rates per person: 
Breakfast: $12 
Lunch: $24 
Dinner: $45 
The City will pay for a Council member’s meals during authorized, required 
travel up to the per diem amount (https://www.gsa.gov/travel/plan-
book/per-diem-rates). If meals are included in the cost of a conference or 
training, the City will not pay for a meal that an employee elects to 
purchase from another source. Unlike lodging, using the per diem 
methodology for meals that is limited to the GSA amount eliminates the 
need for employees to submit receipts. Thus, the Council member only 
needs to report the per diem amounts in the expense report, but not the 
actual receipts. This only applies to meals, as all other travel expenses 
require a receipt to substantiate the purchase.  
When the meal function is an organized event, the official or employee 
shall be reimbursed the amount being charged by the event organizer for 
the meal. The City will not pay for alcohol/personal bar expenses. 
9. 
Taxis/Shuttles 
Taxis or shuttle fares may be reimbursed, including a 15 percent gratuity 
per fare, when the cost of such fares is equal or less than the cost of car 
rentals, gasoline, and parking combined, or when such transportation is 
necessary for time-efficiency. 
10. 
Telephone/Fax/Cellular 
Officials will be reimbursed for actual telephone and fax expenses incurred 
on City business. Telephone bills should identify which calls were made on 
City business. 
11. 
Transportation 
Officials traveling on City business shall use the most economical mode and 
class of transportation reasonably consistent with scheduling needs and 
cargo space requirements, using the most direct, time-efficient route. 
Government and group rates must be used when available. 
C. 
Expense Reports 
46 of 214

--- page 47 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
23 
1. 
Expense reimbursement requests must be submitted on an expense report 
form provided by the City. Reports must document how the expenditure 
met the requirements of this policy. 
2. 
Expense reports must be submitted within 30 days of an expense being 
incurred,; and must be accompanied by receipts documenting each 
expense.  
3. 
Expense reports are a public record. 
D. 
Audits of Expenses 
All expenses are subject to verification that they comply with this policy. 
E. 
Reports on Meetings 
Each official shall briefly give an oral report on any Brown Act meetings they 
attended for which they receive expense reimbursement at their next City Council, 
Board, or Commission meeting. 
F. 
Violation of this Policy 
Under state law, use of public resources or falsifying expense reports in violation 
of this policy may result in any or all of the following: 1) loss of reimbursement 
privileges, 2) a demand for restitution to the City, 3) the agency’s reporting the 
expenses as income to the official to state and federal tax authorities, 4) civil 
penalties of up to $1,000 per day and three times the value of the resources used, 
and 5) prosecution for misuse of public resources. 
 
 
47 of 214

--- page 48 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
24 
Chapter 9. 
Communication 
1. 
All communications are public records.  
All letters, memoranda, and email communications, texts and other social media platform 
writing  involving City Council Members and members of boards, commissions, 
committees, and task forces, the subject of which relate to the conduct of government or 
the performance of any governmental function, with a few exceptions as outlined in the 
Public Records Act, are public records.  
2. 
The Council, in adopting this policy, does not waive attorney-client-privilege or any other 
privilege associated with a closed session authorized under the Ralph M. Brown Act.  
3. 
Ralph M. Brown Act 
Each Council Member should be mindful of all of the requirements of the Brown Act in 
communicating with each other. 
4. 
Mail Processing 
A. 
Members of the City Council may receive mail and other materials through City 
Hall.  
B. 
City Clerk staff open all incoming mail for the Mayor and Council Members, unless 
it is labeled personal and confidential. 
C. 
City Clerk’s Office staff disseminate these materials to individual Council Members. 
City Staff will scan and email correspondence. and provide other materials in the 
Thursday packet delivered to Council Member’s homes/offices. 
D. 
General correspondence addressed to Council Members as a whole may be 
opened and delivered to all Council Members, if appropriate. 
5. 
Correspondence 
A. 
The City Clerk is authorized to receive and take administrative action on all 
correspondence directed to the City Council. The City Clerk may also respond to 
correspondence submitted to the full City Council on non-agenda items or 
authorize a staff member to respond. A courtesy copy is provided to each Council 
Member. 
B. 
Generally, correspondence relating to a specific City Council agenda item shall be 
distributed with the agenda report; correspondence received after the publication 
of agenda packets is to be compiled and distributed to the City Council prior to the 
City Council meeting (known as a Dais packet). This additional correspondence is 
48 of 214

--- page 49 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
25 
appended to the Agenda Report as public comment on the public meeting portal 
and in the records repository permanent record.  
C. 
After the City Council has taken a position on an issue, official correspondence 
should reflect this position. While Council Members who may disagree with a 
position are free to prepare correspondence on such issues as private citizens, City 
letterhead, official City Council title, and staff support should not be utilized. In 
addition, City letterhead and staff support cannot be utilized for personal or 
political purposes. 
D. 
City letterhead, logo, insignia and brand, as well as, staff support, cannot be 
utilized for personal or political purposes. 
6. 
Electronic Communication Record Retention 
A. 
All emails sent and received through the City server are saved for at least two 
years on the City’s network and are subject to the Public Records Act. 
B. 
Communication on social media sites are saved for at least two years. 
C. 
Text messages sent on any City-provided device are saved for at least two years. 
7. 
Social Media Use as a Council Member 
Social media are internet-based platforms that allow for interactive communication and 
engagement with the public. These may include (without limitation): Facebook, Twitter, 
Instagram, YouTube, TikTok, Snapchat, blogs, etc. 
The City’s image as a professional organization is critical to maintaining the respect of the 
public, and members should use discretion when posting or communicating on social 
media. If Council Members choose to maintain and use personal social media accounts to 
conduct City business, they must follow current federal and state regulations, as well as 
Council and City policies. 
A. 
Brown Act:  Social media postings may turn into an interactive dialogue. The 
Brown Act has expanded to provide guidance on elected officials use of media 
platforms that are free of charge and open and accessible to the public.  
1. 
Permitted Uses: You may answer questions, provide information to public 
and solicit information from the public about city business; share a City 
post to your Council Member site; and tag other elected officials in a post. 
2. 
Prohibited Uses: A majority of the members may not use social media to 
discuss agency business and a member may not respond directly to any 
posting by another member regarding agency business including no ‘likes’ 
‘thumbs up’, ‘emojis’ or other symbols. 
49 of 214

--- page 50 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
26 
B. 
First Amendment.  Councilmember social media platforms can become public 
forums subject to First Amendment requirements.  If a social media platform is 1) 
used for City business and 2) has interactive features that are accessible to the 
public without limitation, it is a public forum.  The City’s Social Media Policy 
contains rules for public participation and addresses what will constitute 
unacceptable content.  In general, officials may not block a member of the public 
from their social media sites if those sites have become public forums.  If 
unacceptable content appears on a site that has become a public forum, please 
consult with City staff. 
C. 
Public Records: Members are prohibited from deleting social media posts and 
related comments regarding any City-related matters to avoid violating the 
California Public Records Act. Social media is subject to the City’s record retention 
schedule. 
D. 
Best practices: Officials should be honest and accurate when posting information 
or news, especially when communicating during a crisis or emergency. Any 
mistakes, misstatements and/or factual errors must be corrected quickly upon 
discovery. When possible, news of citywide importance should first be announced 
by the official City-affiliated accounts then can be reshared by Council Members. 
Unless the member has been designated to serve as a spokesperson, members 
should never represent themselves as a spokesperson for the entire Council or 
City. Members should be mindful of recognizing that accomplishments of the City 
or Council are achieved by collective action of the entire body or organization. 
7.8. Written Communications for Council Meetings 
D. 
The deadline for the receipt of written communications for inclusion in the agenda 
packet is up to 45:00 pm the Wednesday before the Council meeting. This is to 
allow for adequate staff review and analysis, and to ensure public access to 
information, all plans, correspondence, and other documents supporting planning 
applications being heard by the City Council.  
E. 
To be included in the addendum Dais packetto the packet, items communication 
may be received up until noon 4:00 pm the day of the scheduled meeting.  
F. 
Materials distributed to Council Members during the meeting shall be available for 
viewing by the public during the meeting if the materials were prepared by the 
City or a Council Member, or at the conclusion of the meeting if prepared by 
another person. 
G. 
If a Council Member receives materials regarding an agenda item, s/hethey shall 
forward it the City Clerk and the City Manager as soon as possible. 
50 of 214

--- page 51 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
27 
H. 
If late correspondence is received, the City Council will determine at the meeting 
whether to continue or refer the item to the appropriate Board and/or 
Commission if significant changes to a project, or significant new information has 
become known. 
8.9. Council Communication to Boards and Commissions 
A. 
Council Members should be mindful not to unduly influence—through their 
attendance—the decision at a Board or Commission meeting so as not to get 
ahead of the process. 
B. 
It is not appropriate for a Council Member to make public comments at a Board or 
Commission meeting. 
9.10. Council - Staff Relations 
A. 
Individual Council Members may make requests of City staff through the City 
Manager or Department Head for limited research and information without the 
formal concurrence of a majority of the member’s colleagues. Requests that will 
require significant staff time may be referred to the full Council and only pursued if 
supported by a majority of the Council. 
B. 
Council Members are encouraged to submit their questions on agenda items to 
the City Manager or Department Head (copying the City Manager) as far in 
advance of the meeting as possible so that Staff can be prepared to respond at the 
Council meeting.  
C. 
Council Members should direct any questions on staff reportagenda reports to the 
City Manager or designee.  
D. 
Clarifications or technical questions will be answered before the meeting 
whenever possible. 
E. 
Questions and all Staff-prepared responses will be forwarded to all Council 
Members. 
10.11. 
Speaking for “the City” 
Similar to written correspondence, when Council Members are requested to speak to 
groups or are asked the City Council’s position on an issue, the response should reflect the 
position of the City Council as a whole. Of course, a member may clarify his/hertheir vote 
on a matter by stating, for example, “While I voted against X, the City Council voted in 
support of it.” When representing the City at meetings or other venues, it is important 
that those in attendance gain an understanding of the City Council’s position rather than 
that of an individual member. 
51 of 214

--- page 52 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
28 
11.12. 
Speaking as an Individual 
On occasion, Council Members may wish to transmit correspondence on an issue upon 
which the City Council has yet to take a position or about an issue for which the City 
Council has no position. In these circumstances, members should clearly indicate in their 
communications that they are not speaking for the City Council as a whole, but for 
themselves as an individual member of the Council. City letterhead and office support 
may be utilized in these circumstances.  
 
 
52 of 214

--- page 53 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
29 
Chapter 10. Legislative 
1. 
Council Legislative Committee 
A. 
It is the policy of the City Council that the Council be involved in the development 
of the City’s position on significant pending federal and state legislation that may 
directly impact the City of San Mateo. 
B. 
The offices of Mayor and Deputy Mayor are the Council’s Legislative Committee. 
C. 
The Legislative Committee shall may meet annually or as needed to draft the City’s 
annual legislative priorities,; and shall meet when necessary to develop 
recommendations for the City’s position on legislative matters.  
D. 
Pending legislation for consideration by the Legislative Committee can be 
submitted to the Committee by a Council Member, City Manager, or by a 
Commission Staff Liaison if a majority of their commission voted in favor of 
submission to the Legislative Committee. 
E. 
The Committee’s recommendations shall be presented to the City Council for its 
consideration; if there is a pressing and urgent need to comment on pending 
legislation and getting approval in a City Council meeting is not practical, the 
Legislative Committee may take immediate action to communicate with legislators 
and copy the entire City Council on the communication and provide a brief report 
of action taken under Reports and Announcements at the next City Council 
meeting. 
F. 
The Council shall direct the Mayor or other City official to communicate the City’s 
position on legislative matters to the appropriate legislative bodies. 
2. 
Ceremonial Matters 
A. 
There are several different types of action the Council may take to provide 
recognition or express appreciation: 
1. 
Certifications of Appreciation or Recognition 
Commendations typically issued to acknowledge the activities of a person 
or organization. These certificates may be issued by any member of the 
Council without formal action. Examples of traditional recipients would 
include departing Board and Commission Members, high school students 
with 4.0 grade point averages, Chamber of Commerce Outstanding 
Businesses Awards, winners of local art or speech contests, etc. 
2. 
Commendatory Resolutions 
53 of 214

--- page 54 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
30 
Typically used to handle matters requiring some type of formal 
memorialization such as the retirement of a long-tenured employee, or 
outgoing Mayor or Council Member.  
3. 
Proclamations 
Public announcements directing attention to a person, organization, or 
event. Proclamations will be issued subject to the policy described below. 
B. 
Preparation of City Proclamations 
1. 
It is the policy of the City Council to issue proclamations for certain events 
or causes, when such a proclamation positively impacts the community and 
conveys an affirmative message to residents. Examples of causes for which 
proclamations are regularly and routinely issued include,; but are not 
limited to:  notable accomplishments by citizens, youth groups, schools, 
local organizations, non-profit groups, and local events that deserve special 
recognition. Discretion should be used in determining whether or not to 
issue a proclamation. Proclamations that are political in nature, are 
controversial, or that likely would not enjoy a high level of community 
interest and support, are discouraged.  
2. 
It will be the policy of the City Council to process requests for 
proclamations in the following manner: 
a. 
The City Clerk will review the request with the Mayor.  
b. 
If the Mayor determines that the proclamation request is consistent 
with the policy stated above, the Mayor will direct the City Clerk to 
prepare the proclamation and the proclamation will be issued. 
c. 
If the Mayor determines the proclamation request is not consistent 
with the policy stated above, the request will be routed to the other 
Council Members to determine if there is interest in issuing the 
proclamation. 
d. 
If a Council Member has interest in issuing the proclamation that 
the Mayor determined was not consistent with this policy, that 
Council Member will sponsor the item and shall be responsible for 
drafting the language to be contained in the proclamation. The 
sponsor Council Member shall provide the draft proclamation 
language to the City Clerk. 
e. 
Upon receipt of the draft proclamation language, the City Clerk will 
place the item for consideration to considering issuing on the 
54 of 214

--- page 55 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
31 
Consent Calendar at the next available meeting. The proclamation 
will be issued upon a majority vote of the Council. Depending on 
the nature and time-sensitivity of the request, the Mayor and 
Deputy Mayor can act without full formal concurrence of the 
Council when the situation warrants. 
 
 
55 of 214

--- page 56 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
32 
Chapter 11. Council Liaison Roles 
1. 
The City Council will collectively review and approve liaison appointments. The 
recommended appointments will, to the best of the Council’s ability, attempt to match 
the requested positions with the needs of the respective body and the experience of the 
Council Member, while also attempting to equitably balance the distribution of 
assignments. 
2. 
It is generally suggested that newly- elected Council Members undertake a limited 
number of assignments during their first year, to allow opportunity to gain familiarity with 
the obligations and expectations of the role. 
3. 
The assignment of City Council liaisons is conducted annually according to the following 
process: 
A. 
Following the reorganization in December, the City Clerk will distribute a memo to 
each Council Member which will include a list of potential liaison assignments.  
B. 
Each Council Member will complete the list in a manner which prioritizes the 
assignments of interest to them,; and will submit their list to the City Clerk in 
December. 
C. 
The ranking process uses the following methodology: 
1. 
Top priority = I really want this (please mark at most only two #1s) 
2. 
This is something I would like to have 
3. 
I’ll take this one for the team 
4. 
I do not want (perhaps the meeting timing does not work for you) 
B. 
 
D. 
The City Clerk will assemble responses into a table and provide to the Mayor. The 
Mayor uses the following additional criteria to make assignments: Continuity 
assignments remain with the assignee unless the member is opting to step down 
from the role (see section 5 below); assignments will be assigned by highest 
priority desired with 1’s first, 2’s second etc.; in case of ties, overall balance and 
then seniority will be taken into account (for example, did the Council Member get 
their other first choice? Does the Council Member have other “plum” continuity 
assignments; Ideally, everyone will get at least one of their top priorities; and you 
do not need to use your top rankings to hold onto continuity assignments. 
E. 
In the event that a liaison has not been identified for each commission, the Mayor 
will divide any remaining liaison positions amongst the Council, attempting to 
equitably balance the distribution of the assignments and associated workload.  
C. 
 
56 of 214

--- page 57 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
33 
D.F. The Mayor, working with the City Manager and City Clerk, will utilize the responses 
to present an Administrative Agenda Report and conduct a discussion at a study 
session in early at the first meeting in January regarding the potential liaison 
appointments. 
E.G. The Mayor and Deputy Mayor have traditionally been assigned to the following 
bodies: 
1. 
City Council Legislative Committee - ordered by Resolution 158 (1981) 
2. 
City Budget and Audit Committee 
3. 
Council of Cities – City Selection Committee (Mayor) 
4. 
Honorary Chair of Sister Cities Association (Mayor) 
4. 
 
F. 
In the event that a liaison has not been identified for each commission, the Mayor 
will divide any remaining liaison positions amongst the Council, attempting to 
equitably balance the distribution of the assignments and associated workload.  
G. 
Based on feedback and direction obtained, the final appointments will be placed 
on the Consent Calendar for confirmation by a majority vote of the Council at the 
next regular meeting following the study session 
H. 
The City Clerk shall maintain a list of all such appointments. The final liaison list will 
be distributed to all Council Members and posted on the City’s website. 
4. 
Liaison to the City’s Boards and Commissions 
A. 
Each of the City’s Boards and Commissions has a Council Member who serves as its 
Council liaison. 
B. 
Council Members should act as an advisor and resource to commissioners and the 
commission’s staff liaison when issues regarding process, procedure, attendance, 
interpersonal or public relations arise.  
C. 
The Council liaison serves on the Appointment Subcommittee for the Commission 
they are assigned to. In the event the Mayor is serving as the commission’s liaison, 
the minimum subcommittee shall consist of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor. 
5. 
Continuity Appointments to External Agencies 
A. 
The City Council has identified certain external appointments for which there is a 
strong need and desire for consistency and continuity in terms of Council 
participation and representation and the Mayor will maintain the current Council 
Member assigned as liaison to that body as much as possible:. The Council will 
have an opportunity at its annual review to see if a supplemental designation is 
needed due to changing conditions or if new bodies have been added to the list.  
57 of 214

--- page 58 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
34 
All continuity appointment should also have an Alternate assigned, so a member 
can be ready to take over the role if needed.  
1. 
San Francisco Airport Community Roundtable 
2. 
City/County Association of Governments 
3. 
Emergency Services Council 
4. 
San Mateo Chamber of Commerce & Downtown San Mateo Association 
5.1. 
City of San Mateo Planning Commission 
B. 
Liaison appointments to these bodies would not annually be re-assigned to 
another Council Member, as this would not provide the desired consistency. If it 
became necessary to re-assign the liaison for one of these bodies as the result of a 
vacancy or other reason, the liaison role would not typically be assigned to a 
newly-elected Council Member. A Council Member with an interest in serving as 
liaison to any of these continuity bodies should confer with the current 
representative, and consider acting as an alternate or “shadowing” the current 
liaison for a time to learn more about the body’s functions and duties.  
C. 
If a Council Member who is assigned as liaison to one of the aforementioned 
bodies anticipates leaving office, every effort should be made to mentor another 
Council Member so that those critical relationships can continue uninterrupted. 
6. 
Council of Cities Appointments 
A. 
In the case of appointments made by the regional Council of Cities - City Selection 
Committee, upon receipt of the City Selection Committee agenda packet listing all 
positions and nominees to be voted on, if time allows, the City Council maywill 
schedule a special meeting prior to the Council of Cities meeting to discuss and 
agree upon preferred appointees. So tthis will allow Tthe Mayor, or his/hertheir 
proxy, willto have clear direction on whom to vote for that reflects the best 
interest of the City. If scheduling a meeting is not practical, the Mayor and Deputy 
Mayor may confer on the vote. In the case of nominations from the floor at the 
City Selection voting meeting, the Mayor, or his/hertheir proxy, will vote their 
conscience based on the feedback previously given by the City Council as a whole. 
In December every year upon the Mayor’s rotation, a standing proxy shall be filled 
out and filed with the City Selection Committee for the year naming who may vote 
in the Mayor’s absence. The Deputy Mayor will be given first priority followed by 
any Council Member who has the most latitude and ability to attend the meetings. 
58 of 214

--- page 59 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
35 
Chapter 12. Boards and Commissions 
1. 
Refer to the San Mateo City Charter Article VI on Boards and Commissions. 
2. 
Council Members should refrain from participation at Board and Commission meetings to 
avoid influencing the outcome of those meetings. 
3. 
Reappointments, Vacancies, and Appointments 
A. 
The City Clerk’s Office manages the Boards and Commissions (hereafter referred 
to as “Commission” for ease of reference) application process. The process begins 
with the Clerk contacting members who are eligible for appointment to a second 
term and finding out their interest in reappointment.  
B. 
The City Clerk then shares the results with each appointment subcommittee and 
receives direction on the need to schedules an agendized appointment 
subcommittee meeting  special Council Meeting for Council to provide direction 
on reappointments. The default is that currently serving Commissioners will each 
be interviewed for reappointment. However, if it is determined that a 
commissioner’s performance is outstanding, or that other factors necessitate 
keeping them in their role, then an automatic reappointment can occur with a 
majority vote or majority consensus of the City Council. Any commission seat 
selected for re-interviews, means the seat will be processed as part of the full 
annual recruitment and the currently sitting commissioner may be interviewed 
along with other applicants.    
C. 
The City Clerk recruits for all open seats utilizing multiple avenues including: 
advertising, the media, website, social media, and networking lists to present 
qualified candidates to the Council for consideration. 
D. 
The interview and selection of candidates is an open process. 
E. 
The City Clerk receives the applications (ideally a minimum of three applications is 
sought for each vacant seat) and arranges for the appropriate sub-committee, in a 
noticed special meeting, to interview applicants and form their recommendation. 
F. 
Commissioners, Board and committee members (hereafter referred to as 
“Commissioners” for ease of reference) serve staggered terms. 
G. 
An “Appointment Subcommittee” may include up to five City Council members. 
The City Council shall appoint the members of the Appointment Subcommittee.  
As a minimum, the Appointment Subcommittee shall include; and a quorum shall 
be established as: 1) the Mayor (or their Council designee) and the Council liaison 
to the Commission. The Department Head affiliated with that Commission shall 
participate as a non-voting member of the Appointment Subcommittee. 
59 of 214

--- page 60 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
36 
H. 
Except when reappointment is recommended, or an established eligibility list is 
used, the Appointment Subcommittee shall conduct candidate interviews and 
make a recommendation for Council approval. Interviews shall be conducted in a 
noticed public meeting with at least a quorum of the Appointment Subcommittee 
present. 
H.I. At the conclusion of an Appointment Subcommittee’s interviews of candidates, 
and the agreement on the recommended candidate, the appointment 
subcommittee may then designate up to two applicants who would be considered 
for listing on the eligibility list for a one-year period. The eligibility list is then 
ranked according to preferred next seating to a Commission vacancy. The list is 
only established with the full agreement of the Appointment Subcommittee. It is 
not a requirement that an eligibility list be established if there are not applicants 
that are deemed qualified. This list may be used for automatic next appointments 
in the event of an unscheduled vacancy, the next person on the eligibility list 
would be submitted as the recommended candidate from the appointment 
subcommittee on the next City Council regular meeting Consent Calendar.  
I.J. 
The full Council will receive the Appointment Subcommittee’s recommendation 
and the full list of candidates and applications for each opening.  
J.K. The Appointment Subcommittee recommendations for new and reappointed 
Commissioners are confirmed by Council under the Consent Calendar at regular 
Council meetings. An staff reportagenda report summarizing the Subcommittee’s 
recommendations and including the full list of candidates and applications 
reviewed for each opening will be provided to the full City Council. Council may 
adopt the recommendations as presented or pull the item for further discussion. 
The City Council can consider for appointment any of the candidates interviewed. 
K.L. A majority vote of Council approves the appointees.  
L.M. Commission recruitment begins annually in the month of March, and completes in 
May, in order to ensure continuity on commissions before terms end June 10th.  
M.N. Unscheduled Vacancies 
1. 
Subject to the Maddy Act (California Government Code § 54970), if an 
unscheduled vacancy occurs on a commission, the Council may either 
appoint from the pool of applicants on file (the eligibility list if there is one 
available) or open up the position to new applications where the above 
process is followed. 
2. 
For such non-routine vacancies, the announcement for new applications is 
made as soon as possible in order to maintain viable memberships on the 
various boards and commissions. 
60 of 214

--- page 61 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
37 
3. 
All appointments occur in an open public meeting. 
N.O. Youth Activities Council (YAC) Selection Process 
The YAC is the only group not appointed directly by the City Council but through 
an application method administered by the Parks and Recreation Department. 
High school students from all of the City’s public high schools, as well as Junipero 
Serra High School and Nueva Upper School, are recruited for potential 
participation starting in the late spring of each year. 
 
 
61 of 214

--- page 62 ---
San Mateo City Council Guidelines 
 Amended Study Session Review 5/21/20184/19/21 
38 
Chapter 13. References 
1. 
San Mateo City Charter, §2.03, 2.04, 2.12, Article VI 
2. 
Ralph M. Brown Act (California Government Code, § 54950 et seq.) 
3. 
California Government Code, § 53234 et seq. 
4. 
San Mateo Municipal Code 
5. 
California Public Records Act (California Government Code, § 6250 et seq.) 
6. 
AB 1234 California Government Code, § 53232.3 
7. 
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order 
8. 
Emergency Guide for Elected Officials 
62 of 214

--- page 63 ---
Boards and Commissions  
Rules and Procedures 
 
 
Adopted on August 17, 2015 
by Resolution No. 82 (2015) 
Amended by Council Action on January 17, 2017,   
Amended by Council Action on April 17, 2017,  
Amended by Council Action on April 16, 2018,  
Amended by Council Action on May 21, 2018, and  
Amended by Council Action on _____, 2021 
 
 
63 of 214

--- page 64 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
2 
City of San Mateo, Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures 
Table of Contents 
 
Chapter 1.  
Purpose and Overview ............................................................................................. 3 
Chapter 2. 
Commission Authority .............................................................................................. 4 
Chapter 3. 
Duties ........................................................................................................................ 7 
Chapter 4. 
Selection of Chair and Vice Chair ........................................................................... 10 
Chapter 5. 
Commissioner Conduct .......................................................................................... 11 
Chapter 6. 
Meetings ................................................................................................................. 12 
Chapter 7. 
Meeting Agendas .................................................................................................... 17 
Chapter 8. 
Financial Matters ............................................................................................ 202019 
Chapter 9. 
Communication .............................................................................................. 252523 
Chapter 10. Boards and Commissions Selection Process .................................................. 292825 
Chapter 11. References ...................................................................................................... 313027 
 
 
 
 
 
 
64 of 214

--- page 65 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
3 
Chapter 1. 
Purpose and Overview  
This manual describes the way the City of San Mateo’s City’s Boards and Commissions do their 
business. It is a compilation of all Board and Commission (hereafter referred to as 
“Commission” for the sake of brevity) rules and procedures that have been formally adopted by 
Council Resolution. These Rules and Procedures supersede individual Commission bylaws.  
These rules are intended to enhance public participation and debate so that the best possible 
decisions can be made for San Mateo. San Mateo has a long and proud tradition of open 
government and civil, intelligent public discourse. These rules, which must be approved by the 
City Council as a body, are subject to review and future modification by the City Council as 
needed. 
Appointed Board and Commission members are expected to understand and comply with these 
Rules and Procedures. Failure to comply with the rules and procedures outlined in this 
document may be cause for removal from the appointed position. 
In most cases, these rules and procedures supersede any existing Board or Commission by-laws. 
 
 
65 of 214

--- page 66 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
4 
Chapter 2. 
Commission Authority 
1. 
Commission Authority, Generally 
A. 
The primary role of City commissions is to increase public input and participation 
in the determination of City policies and some programs.  
B. 
The specific role of a City commission is to review and make recommendations to 
the City Council on matters within its scope of responsibility as defined in the 
Charter or Municipal Code. The commission is basically a citizen’s advisory arm of 
the City Council, although certain commissions may take final actions in certain 
prescribed areas. 
C. 
Most importantly, the commission serves as a vehicle for public input into City 
programs and policies referred to it by the City Council or brought to its attention 
by staff. 
D. 
The commission also serves to reduce the reevaluation of these matters before 
the City Council. 
E. 
On the specific matters referred to it by the City Council, the commission serves as 
the principal reviewing body of the City. 
F. 
Commissions adhere to the City Council’s policies on the programs under their 
scopes of interest. 
G. 
Commissions serve to represent the general interests of the entire City and not 
specific program areas or specific interest groups. 
H. 
Commissions are encouraged to express their views on issues, projects or policies 
brought to them by the City department. 
2. 
Applicability 
The complete scope of responsibilities for each commission is identified either in the 
Charter or in the City’s Municipal Code and will be provided to you by the Departments 
supporting your commission. When not in conflict with the Charter of the City of San 
Mateo, or the Constitution or laws of the State of California, these Commission Rules and 
Procedures (“Rules”) shall be in effect upon adoption by resolution of the Council. 
3. 
Revisions to these Rules 
The Council shall review and revise these Rules as needed. 
66 of 214

--- page 67 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
5 
4. 
Authority of Each Board / Commission 
The authority of the City of San Mateo’s Boards and Commissions are described in the San 
Mateo City Charter Article VI, as well as its Municipal Code Title 2 Administration and 
Personnel in Chapters 2.15, 2.21, 2.24, 2.26, 2.27, 2.28, and 2.29 and 2.57. 
A. 
Library Board: 
The Library Board oversees the Library department’s policies and accepts in the 
name of the City money, personal and real property donated for Library purposes. 
B. 
Personnel Board: 
The Personnel Board hears appeals submitted by any person in the competitive 
service relative to any disciplinary action, dismissal, demotion, charge of 
discrimination, or alleged violation of this chapter, and to certify its findings and 
recommendations as provided in the personnel system rulesThe Personnel Board 
recommends rules and advises the City Manager regarding personnel matters and 
hears appeals from City employees. 
C. 
Community Relations Commission (CRC):  
The CRC addresses a broad spectrum of social issues and related policy and 
provides oversight for Federal grant programs that implement public services, 
housing, and community development programs. It is also the hearing and appeals 
board for Code Enforcement related cases. 
D. 
Park & Recreation Commission: 
The Park and Recreation Commission makes recommendations to the City Council 
on acquisition, development, beautification and maintenance of public parks, 
landscape resources, public recreation facilities, budget, and programs of park and 
recreation activities. 
E. 
Planning Commission: 
The Planning Commission hears requests and makes decisions on land use items as 
well as recommends elements of the General Plan and additions or changes to the 
City’s zoning code. 
F. 
Public Works Commission: 
The Public Works Commission considers the needs of the City for public 
infrastructure and develops policy for construction and maintenance programs to 
recommend to the City Council. 
67 of 214

--- page 68 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
6 
G.F. Senior Citizens Commission: 
The Senior Citizens Commission encourages, fosters, and facilitates programs for 
the enhancement of all matters relating to the social, economic, and personal 
well-being of the senior population. 
H. 
Sustainability Commission: 
The Sustainability Commission evaluates policies, programs and issues related to 
the environment, and the economic and social equity within the City of San Mateo 
and advances their recommendations to the City Council for consideration 
. 
 
G. 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
The Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission was established in 2018, 
consolidating the Public Works Commission and Sustainability Commission into 
one commission. It is the duty of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
to advise on policies and programs related to environmental sustainability, 
transportation and infrastructure. 
I.H. Investment Advisory Committee (IAC): 
The IAC serves as an administrative advisory committee to the City Manager. The 
IAC provides added insight and an independent perspective on the City’s 
investment policies and practices.  
J.I. 
Youth Activity Council (YAC): 
The Youth Activity Council provides experiences and opportunities for the youth 
and young adult population by: providing safe and enjoyable activities; creating 
community through special events; enhancing leadership and decision-making 
skills; providing service learning experiences; practicing civic participation and 
empowering our youth’s voice with our decision makers. 
5. 
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order 
To the extent these Rules do not address an issue of parliamentary procedure for 
legislative body meetings, Rosenberg’s Rules of Order: Simple Parliamentary Procedures 
for the 21st Century shall apply. 
 
 
68 of 214

--- page 69 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
7 
Chapter 3. 
Duties 
1. 
Duties of the Chair 
A. 
All City commissions elect a presiding officer, known as a chairperson for a one-
year period. 
B. 
The Chair sets the tone for the entire meeting. 
C. 
To conduct meetings of the Commission as its chairperson efficiently.: 
1. 
Ensure that consideration of items on the agenda move along without 
delay. 
2. 
Ensure that petitioners, proponents, and opponents are heard but not 
allowed to disrupt the meeting.  
3. 
Ensure that decorum is maintained at the meeting. 
4. 
In presiding over matters where the public has provided testimony and/or 
raised questions, the Chair should: 
a. 
Restate the question coming before the Commission.  
b. 
Direct questions or comments requiring a response to staff for a 
response.  
c. 
Ensure that staff and members of the public direct their comments 
to the chair. 
d. 
If necessary, help keep Commissioner questions relevant to the 
matter being considered by the Commission. 
e. 
If necessary, consider calling for a brief recess if orderly conduct of 
the meeting is being disrupted.  
f. 
Announce the decision of the Commission on all subjects. 
5. 
To ensure that each member of the Commission is provided an opportunity 
to completely express their views on items of business, the Chair should 
see that Commissioners ask to be recognized by the Chair before speaking. 
D. 
To correspond on behalf of the Commission, provided that opinions expressed on 
behalf of the Commission or City Government are consistent with the consensus of 
the Commission.  
69 of 214

--- page 70 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
8 
E. 
Nothing under the Chair’s duties shall limit any individual Commissioner’s ability to 
interact with members of the public. 
2. 
Duties of Vice Chair 
In the absence of the Chair from the Commission meeting, the Vice Chair shall possess all 
powers of the Chair, andChair and be subject to all prescribed duties for that position. 
3. 
Duties of Commissioners 
A. 
Arrive on time for all Commission meetings. 
B. 
Review all meeting materials in preparation for Commission meetings. 
C. 
It is expected that Commissioners will attend all meetings. If a commissioner is 
absent for three consecutive meeting or for 15% of scheduled meetings annually, 
the City Clerk will notify Council who may take action to vacate the seat. The 
Commissioner is expected to notify the Staff Liaison or Staff Admin if they are 
unable to attend a meeting. 
4. 
Duties of Staff Liaison 
A. 
The liaison, an assigned City staff person, has the following responsibilities: 
1. 
Create meeting schedules 
2. 
Prepare meeting agendas and administrative reportAgenda Reports 
3. 
Notify the City Clerk of attendance problems, resignations, and members’ 
change of contact information. 
4. 
Ensure that sufficient research and analysis has been performed by staff to 
allow an informed decision by the Commission. 
5. 
Help facilitate and advise the Chair on meeting management. 
6. 
Ensure that all affected departments have an opportunity for input before 
bringing an item forward for commission consideration. 
B. 
The Staff Liaison, along with the City Clerk, is responsible for ensuring that 
appointed board/commission members are oriented about policies and 
procedures as they relate to the body. 
C. 
All communications addressed to a specific Board or Commission are received by 
the staff liaison or his/hertheir designee and relayed to the appointed body. 
70 of 214

--- page 71 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
9 
5. 
Duties of Administrative Staff 
Each commission also has an administrative staff person (Staff Admin), who works with 
the Staff Liaison, to support the body. His/herTheir responsibilities are to: 
A. 
Provide oversight of agenda preparation and its delivery to the full Commission 
and to the public. 
B. 
Ensure that meeting materials--including a sufficient number of agendas, universal 
speaker slips, and at least one binder of all related reports being presented at that 
meeting–are available for the public to examine at the meeting. 
C. 
Produce the action minutes for each meeting. 
D. 
Provide annually a record of attendance of each commissioner to the City Clerk. 
6. 
Duties of Council Liaison 
A. 
Every year the Mayor will appoint Council Members to serve as liaisons to the 
City’s Boards and Commissions. 
B. 
Council Members act as an advisor and resource to Commissioners and the 
commission’s Staff Liaison when issues regarding process, procedure, 
interpersonal or public relations arise. Commissioners are also welcome to 
approach the Council Liaison for support or if they have any concerns. Council 
Members should refrain from participation at Board and Commission meetings to 
avoid influencing the outcome of those meetings. 
 
 
71 of 214

--- page 72 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
10 
Chapter 4. 
Selection of Chair and Vice Chair 
1. 
Commission reorganization, including rotation of the roles of the Chair and Vice Chair, 
occurs annually at the meeting as close as possible to June 10th of each year. The results 
of the vote should be publicly announced; and the vote recorded in the minutes. 
2. 
Nomination of commissioners to serve as Chair and Vice Chair for the coming year can be 
made by any of the current commissioners in attendance. 
3. 
The Chair and Vice Chair are elected by the majority of the commission for a one-year 
term and hold office until their successors are elected or until their terms as members of 
the commission expire. 
4. 
The normal convention is a rotation from Vice Chair to Chair. Deviation from this normal 
convention should be extremely rare and must be accompanied by stated justification by 
the Commissioner making a nomination that does not conform to the normal convention. 
5. 
The City Council believes that experience as a Commissioner will assist those who are 
selected to serve as Chair or Vice Chair, and that it is in everyone’s best interest that 
candidates have experience in cycles of governing to acclimate themselves to the jobs, 
tasks, and roles of the Commission.  
 
 
72 of 214

--- page 73 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
11 
Chapter 5. 
Commissioner Conduct 
1. 
Members shall: 
A. 
put the community’s interests first at all times by making decisions with the 
interest of the community at-large in mind and avoid representing personal 
interests; 
B. 
treat each other, council members, staff, and members of the public with dignity, 
courtesy, and respect; 
C. 
not interrupt speakers, allow them to finish their presentation before asking 
questions; 
D. 
 not engage in discussion with a member of the public; 
E. 
maintain confidentiality of all closed session materials and discussion; 
F. 
be attentive to others, limiting interruptions and distractions; 
G. 
encourage diverse viewpoints in debate while being mindful not to prolong 
discourse or block consensus; 
H. 
agree to respectfully disagree with colleagues; 
I. 
keep comments clear, concise, and on-topic; 
J. 
start and end meetings on time and work from the agenda; 
K. 
present problems in a way that promotes discussion and resolution;. 
L. 
meet with the Council liaison to the Commission when requested. 
2. 
Commissioners may not be employed by the City, or provide services under a contract 
with the City. Commissioners may not volunteer in the operations arm of the department 
their commission is affiliated with, without Department Head approval. However, 
Commissioners are encouraged to volunteer for city events, put on by any City 
department, or volunteer in any capacity in other City departments. Commissioners 
enhance their presence in the community by volunteering with local non-profits, or 
assisting with community events and serving on special committees. 
3. 
Commissioners are subject to all the provisions of the City’s Harassment and, 
Discrimination and Reasonable Accommodations for Disabilities Policy (#301). 
 
73 of 214

--- page 74 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
12 
Chapter 6. 
Meetings 
1. 
All Commission decisions must be taken at Commission meetings. Before taking action, 
the Commission may be informed by project applicants, interested members of the 
public, and City staff. 
2. 
No business may be transacted by the commission at a regular or special meeting unless a 
quorum of the membership is present (50% plus one of those currently appointed). 
3. 
Commission Meeting Dates 
A. 
If at any time any regular meeting of the Commission falls on a holiday or if it is 
known that a quorum will not be available, the meeting may be rescheduled to the 
earliest convenient time. 
B. 
The Boards and Commissions shall adopt a schedule of quarterly or more frequent 
meetings on an annual basis, which become the regular meeting dates. 
C. 
Regular meeting dates may be amended with the approval of the Commission. 
4. 
Types of Meetings 
A. 
Regular Meetings are those identified in the adopted meeting schedule. Regular 
meetings are agendized and posted at least 72 hours in advance of the meeting, 
and no earlier than 96 hours before the meeting.  
B. 
Special Meetings are called at a non-regular meeting date and time. They are 
called by the Chair or Commission with a minimum of 24 hours’ notice, versus 72 
hours’ notice for regular meetings. 
C. 
Study Sessions are special meetings that are held for the purpose of providing 
information to the Commission, particularly on issues that are more complex or 
more time-consuming than matters typically scheduled on regular Commission 
meetings. At study sessions Commissioners may collectively provide direction to 
City staff. Typically, no action is taken at the study sessions, but direction may be 
given. 
D. 
Closed Sessions at the commission level would be very rare and would only occur 
at the direction of the City Attorney. The procedures for the conduct of the closed 
sessions shall be the same as those for open session meetings, except that the 
public, after allowance for public comment, will be excluded. 
74 of 214

--- page 75 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
13 
E. 
Emergency Meetings are allowed per the Ralph M. Brown Act when an emergency 
situation involving matters upon which prompt action is necessary due to the 
disruption or threatened disruption of the public’s well-being.  
F. 
Adjourned Meetings due to Power Outages 
E. 
In the event a quorum of the body loses electrical power or suffers an 
internet connection outage not corrected within 15 minutes, the meeting will be 
adjourned to a date certain. Any items noticed as public hearings 2will be 
continued to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Commission. Any other 
agenda items the Commission has not taken action on will be placed on a future 
agenda. 
5. 
Voting 
A motion, second, and a majority vote of the Commission shall be required for any formal 
action of Commission. If the meeting is virtual, or any member is teleconferencing in, the 
vote must be taken by roll call vote. 
6. 
The Chair, with the approval of a majority of the Commission, can change the order of 
hearing of items on the agenda. 
7. 
Public Participation 
A. 
All members of the public are encouraged and invited to participate in the 
legislative process of the City’s Boards and Commissions, for example by 
submission of comments before the meeting or speaking in person at the 
scheduled meeting. 
B. 
It is the intent of these rules to allow everyone to be heard without fear of cheers 
or jeers that may discourage public participation. For these reasons, these rules 
are taken seriously. Disruptive or unruly behavior can result in removal from the 
Commission meeting. 
C. 
Time Limits for public comment: 
1. 
Individual Speakers - 3 minutes  
2. 
Organized group (in lieu of individual speakers) – up to 15 minutes for a 
group presentation, as many speakers as fit within the time allowance 
3. 
The Chair may, at his/hertheir discretion, limit the amount of time allotted 
to the speaker when needed. 
75 of 214

--- page 76 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
14 
D. 
Members of the public are invited to speak at the lectern microphone, whenever 
available, to ensure all attendees can hear and so that the recording can be 
captured. 
E. 
Individuals who wish to speak should submit a speaker card to the commission’s 
Staff Admin for in person meetings,.  fFor remote meetings conducted virtually, 
the raise the hand feature is used and managed by the Staff Admin.. 
E.F. Commissioners should be careful to not engage in back and forth questions or 
discussion with public speakers,.  iIf a member of the public raises a question, at 
the end of the public comment period, the Chair should invite staff to respond to 
any questions raised at the end of the public comment period. 
8. 
Agendized Discussion Items (Public Hearings, New Business, Old Business) 
A. 
Staff / applicant presentation 
B. 
Commission questions to applicant and/or staff 
C. 
Open public hearing (or public comment section) for commentstestimony 
D. 
Close public hearing (or public comment section) 
E. 
Response by staff to public questions/concerns, if warranted 
F. 
Commission discussion and deliberation 
G. 
Commission votes 
9. 
Appeals 
A. 
Appeals are public hearings and will follow the order stated above with the 
following time allocations: 
1. 
Appellant – 15 min 
2. 
Individual Speakers – 3 min 
3. 
Rebuttal – 5 min 
4. 
If the appellant is not the applicant, the applicant shall also have 15 minute 
presentation and a 5 minute rebuttal. 
B. 
Any person that addressed the Commission during one of the fifteen-minute 
periods may not speak again during the public comment period for individual 
speakers on the appeal.  
76 of 214

--- page 77 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
15 
10. Items Considered after 11:00 p.m. 
11. At 11 pm the Commission will determine with a majority vote or consensus whether to 
continue with an item or take up any unheard items. 
12. Action Minutes 
A. 
The City Council and all of its Boards and Commissions shall use Action Minutes to 
record the decisions of the body. 
B. 
Action Minutes contain very little, if any, narrative content and do not capture 
details of public comment or Commissioner comments, questions and opinions. 
Staff is responsible for producing the minutes. Commissioners may request 
correction only of factual errors when presented with the draft minutes. No 
supplemental materials may be appended to minutes.  
C. 
Motions and votes are shown in the record, whenever applicable. 
D. 
Media (audio/video) recordings will be used to provide a verbatim record of 
meetings and are kept as identified in the City’s Records Retention Schedule. 
13. Conflict of Interest 
A. 
The Political Reform Act (PRA), implemented and enforced by the Fair Political 
Practices Commission (FPPC), controls financial conflicts of interest.  
B. 
The other applicable law is Government Code §1090, which applies only to City 
contracts in which a public official has a financial interest. 
C. 
Whenever it appears to a Commissioner that they may have a prohibited financial 
interest in any City contract, or an item that may be presented to the Commission, 
the Commissioner should consult with the City Attorney at the earliest opportunity 
for advice on whether a disqualifying conflict of interest exists.  
D. 
If the City Attorney is consulted on such a matter, the City Attorney shall provide 
their advice in writing, and shall provide a copy of their opinion to the 
Commission, the City Council, the City Manager, the affiliated Department Head, 
and the City Clerk.Staff Liaison. 
E. 
A member shall not vote upon or participate in any matter on which s/he hasthey 
have a conflict of interest. 
F. 
A member shall openly state the reason for his/her their conflict of interest. 
77 of 214

--- page 78 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
16 
G. 
A member who is disqualified by a conflict of interest shall recuse him/herself 
themselves from the dais and leave the room unless it is during the Consent 
Calendar. 
14. Conflict of Interest (applies only to Planning Commission) 
A. 
The Political Reform Act (PRA), implemented, regulated and enforced by the Fair 
Political Practices Commission (FPPC), controls financial conflicts of interest.  
B. 
The other applicable law is Government Code §1090, which applies only to City 
contracts in which a public official has a financial interest. 
C. 
Whenever it appears to a Commissioner that they may have a prohibited financial 
interest in any City contract, or an item that may be presented to the Commission, 
the Commissioner should consult with the City Attorney’s Office at the earliest 
opportunity for advice on whether a disqualifying conflict of interest exists.  
D. 
If the City Attorney is consulted on such a matter, the City Attorney shall provide 
their advice in writing, and shall provide a copy of their opinion to the 
Commission, the City Council, the City Manager, the affiliated Department Head, 
and the Staff Liaison. 
D. 
If the City Attorney’s Office is consulted on such a matter, the City Attorney shall 
provide their advice in writing, and shall provide a copy of their opinion to the 
Commission and the Staff Liaison. 
E. 
With full consideration of the City Attorney’s advice, it is up to each individual 
Commissioner to decide for him/herselfthemselves whether there is a conflict of 
interest. 
F. 
A member shall not vote upon any matter on which s/he hasthey have a conflict of 
interest. 
G. 
A member shall openly state the reason for his/her conflict of interest. 
H. 
A member who is disqualified by a conflict of interest shall recuse 
him/herselfthemselves from the dais and leave the room unless it is during the 
Consent Calendar. 
 
 
78 of 214

--- page 79 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
17 
Chapter 7. 
Meeting Agendas 
1. 
Agenda Order 
Commission agendas will be prepared by the Staff Liaison to the commission and 
presented to the Commission in the order described below. 
A. 
Opening 
1. 
Pledge of Allegiance 
2. 
Roll Call 
B. 
Consent Calendar 
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Commission 
to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If discussion is 
desired, that item may be removed and considered separately. 
C. 
Public Comment 
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the 
agenda may address the Commission at this time. State law prevents Commissions 
from taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Comments may be referred 
to staff for follow up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, 
an opportunity for additional public comment will be provided later in the agenda, 
if needed. 
D. 
Public Hearing 
Duly noticed hearings as mandated by local, state, or federal law, providing an 
opportunity for public review and comment of a proposed action by the 
Commission. 
E. 
Old Business 
Non-routine items that have been presented before that require further oral 
presentation and/or discussion before action is taken. 
F. 
New Business 
Non-routine items requiring an oral presentation and discussion before action is 
taken. 
G. 
Reports and Announcements 
79 of 214

--- page 80 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
18 
Commissioners provide an update on any meetings they attended in their 
commissioner role and Commissioners may make individual requests to schedule 
future items for consideration. A majority vote of the Commission is required to 
place a request on a future agenda. If a Commissioner is going to make a request 
to agendize an item.  
H. 
Additional Public Comment (if needed) 
I.H. Adjourn 
2. 
Agenda Item Submission 
A. 
The Staff Liaison coordinates all agenda items for consideration on a given agenda. 
In order to ensure that each item for discussion has been thoroughly analyzed in 
advance, an Administrative ReportAgenda Report shall be prepared.   
1. 
The preparation of Administrative ReportAgenda Reports applies to all 
Boards and Commissions in order to ensure: 
a. 
The Board or Commission has all the information needed to make a 
well-informed decision; and  
b. 
Any action is fully transparent to the public.  
2. 
Administrative ReportAgenda Reports shall be part of the public agenda 
packet issued prior to the meeting. Copies of the agenda, Administrative 
ReportAgenda Reports and supporting materials shall be made available to 
the public at the meeting. 
B. 
A Commissioner may request an item be considered on a future agenda and, upon 
agreement of a a majority vote of the Commission, staff will prepare an 
Administrative ReportAgenda Report and agendize the item for a future meeting. 
Before the vote, staff will provide information, if available, on how much staff time 
would be required to produce the Agenda Report. 
C. 
Members of the Public  
1. 
A member of the public may request Commission action in the following 
ways: 
a. 
Write a letter to the Commission  
b. 
Speak during the Public Comment period at a Board / Commission 
meeting 
80 of 214

--- page 81 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
19 
2. 
The first response is for the staff liaison to address concerns raised directly 
outside the meeting regarding the issue.  
3. 
If a majority of the Commission agrees, the item will be agendized at a 
future meeting. 
 
 
81 of 214

--- page 82 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
20 
Chapter 8. 
Financial Matters 
1. 
All Commissioners serve as volunteers without compensation or a stipend. 
2. 
Commissioner Expense Reimbursement Policy 
It is rare that a Commissioner would need reimbursement, but in the event that s/hethey 
does, the following policy shall apply: 
A. 
Authorized Expenses 
1. 
City funds, equipment, supplies, titles, and staff time must only be used for 
authorized city business.  
2. 
Expenses incurred while attending educational seminars designed to 
improve officials’ skill and information levels are permitted with pre-
approval from the affiliated Department Head. 
3. 
All other expenses require prior approval by the City Council. 
4. 
The City will not reimburse the following expenses: 
a. 
The personal portion of any trip. 
b. 
Political contributions or events. 
c. 
Family expenses, including partner’s expenses when accompanying 
official on agency-related business. 
d. 
Entertainment expenses, such as movies, sporting events, or 
cultural events. 
e. 
Non-mileage personal automobile expenses, including repairs, 
citations, insurance or gasoline. 
B. 
Cost Control 
To conserve City resources and keep expenses within community standards for 
public officials, expenditures should adhere to the following guidelines. If expenses 
are incurred that exceed these guidelines, the cost borne or reimbursed by the 
City will be limited to the costs that fall within these guidelines. 
1. 
Airfare 
82 of 214

--- page 83 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
21 
Airfares that are equal to or less than those available through the League of 
California Cities, the California State Association of Counties and the State 
of California are presumed to be the most economical and reasonable for 
purposes of reimbursement under this policy. If no discounted airfare is 
available through these entities, then the most reasonable and economical 
airfare possible. 
2. 
Airport Parking 
Long-term parking must be used for travel exceeding 24 hours. 
3. 
Automobile 
Mileage shall be reimbursed at IRS rates presently in effect (see 
www.irs.gov). These rates are designed to compensate the driver for 
gasoline, insurance, maintenance, and other expenses. In addition, drivers 
may be reimbursed for bridge and road tolls. For rental vehicles, only 
receipted fuel expenses will be reimbursed. 
4. 
Car Rental 
Rental rates that are equal or less than those available through the State of 
California’s website (http://www.catravelsmart.com/default.htm) 
https://www.dgs.ca.gov/OFAM/Travel/Resources/Page-
Content/Resources-List-Folder/Car-Rental-Resources  shall be considered 
the most economical and reasonable for purposes of reimbursement under 
this policy. 
5. 
Conferences/Meetings 
If such lodging is in connection with a conference, lodging expenses must 
not exceed the group rate published by the conference sponsor for the 
meeting in question if such rates are available at the time of booking. If the 
group rate is not available, rates that are equal to or less than the group 
rate at the host hotel are presumed to be reasonable and reimbursable for 
purposes of this policy. 
6. 
Internet 
Officials will be reimbursed for Internet access connection and/or usage 
fees away from home, if Internet access is necessary for City business. 
7. 
Lodging 
83 of 214

--- page 84 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
22 
Lodging expenses will be reimbursed or paid for when travel on official City 
business reasonably requires an overnight stay. 
Commissioners are expected to select the most cost-effective and logical 
lodging available, including utilizing the lodging at the conference/training 
site, if available. If there is not specific lodging associated with the official 
City business, the City shall pay for actual lodging expenses up to the 
United States General Services Administration (GSA) maximum rate 
allowed by location (http://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/104877). This 
maximum applies to the room rate only and does not include any taxes or 
fees. Government rates for lodging are often available and should be 
sought. The City will pay only for standard single rooms, including taxes 
and fees, for individual Council members, and any additional nonbusiness 
expenses incurred will be paid by the Council member. 
8. 
Meals 
Reimbursable meal expenses and associated gratuities will not exceed the 
following rates per person: 
Breakfast: $12 
Lunch: $24 
Dinner: $45 
The City will pay for a Commissioner’s meals during authorized, required 
travel up to the per diem amount (https://www.gsa.gov/travel/plan-
book/per-diem-rates). If meals are included in the cost of a conference or 
training, the City will not pay for a meal that a Commissioner elects to 
purchase from another source. Unlike lodging, using the per diem 
methodology for meals that is limited to the GSA amount eliminates the 
need for employees to submit receipts. Thus, the Commissioner only needs 
to report the per diem amounts in the expense report, but not the actual 
receipts. This only applies to meals, as all other travel expenses require a 
receipt to substantiate the purchase.  
When the meal function is an organized event, the official or employee 
shall be reimbursed the amount being charged by the event organizer for 
the meal. The City will not pay for alcohol/personal bar expenses. 
9. 
Taxis/Shuttles 
Taxis or shuttle fares may be reimbursed, including a 15 percent gratuity 
per fare, when the cost of such fares is equal or less than the cost of car 
84 of 214

--- page 85 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
23 
rentals, gasoline, and parking combined, or when such transportation is 
necessary for time-efficiency. 
10. 
Telephone/Fax/Cellular 
Officials will be reimbursed for actual telephone and fax expenses incurred 
on City business. Telephone bills should identify which calls were made on 
City business. 
11. 
Transportation 
Officials traveling on City business shall use the most economical mode and 
class of transportation reasonably consistent with scheduling needs and 
cargo space requirements, using the most direct, time-efficient route. 
Government and group rates must be used when available. 
C. 
Expense Reports 
1. 
Expense reimbursement requests must be submitted on an expense report 
form provided by the City. Reports must document how the expenditure 
met the requirements of this policy. 
2. 
Expense reports must be submitted within 30 days of an expense being 
incurred, and must be accompanied by receipts documenting each 
expense.  
3. 
Expense reports are a public record. 
D. 
Audits of Expenses 
All expenses are subject to verification that they comply with this policy. 
E. 
Reports on Meetings 
Each official shall briefly give an oral report on any Brown Act meetings they 
attended for which they receive expense reimbursement at their next City Council, 
Board, or Commission meeting. 
F. 
Violation of this Policy 
Under state law, use of public resources or falsifying expense reports in violation 
of this policy may result in any or all of the following: 1) loss of reimbursement 
privileges, 2) a demand for restitution to the City, 3) the agency’s reporting the 
expenses as income to the official to state and federal tax authorities, 4) civil 
85 of 214

--- page 86 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
24 
penalties of up to $1,000 per day and three times the value of the resources used, 
and 5) prosecution for misuse of public resources. 
 
 
86 of 214

--- page 87 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
25 
Chapter 9. 
Communication 
1. 
All communications are public records.  
All letters, memoranda, and email, texts and other platform writing  communications 
involving members of boards, commissions, committees and task forces, the subject of 
which relate to the conduct of government or the performance of any governmental 
function, with a few exceptions as outlined in the Public Records Act, are public records.  
2. 
The City Council, in adopting this policy, does not waive attorney-client-privilege or any 
other privilege associated with a closed session authorized under the Ralph M. Brown Act.  
3. 
Ralph M. Brown Act 
Each Commissioner should be mindful of all of the requirements of the Brown Act in 
communicating with each other. 
4. 
Correspondence 
A. 
After the Commission has taken a position on an issue, official correspondence 
should reflect this position. While Commissioners who may disagree with a 
position are free to prepare correspondence on such issues as private citizens, City 
letterhead, official Board or Commission title, and staff support should not be 
utilized. 
B. 
City letterhead, logo, insignia and brand, as well as, staff support cannot be 
utilized for personal or political purposes. 
5. 
Electronic Communication Record Retention 
A. 
Commissioners are issued City of San Mateo email addresses, and are required to 
use this email for all commission related communication. The City email may not 
be forwarded to a personal email.  
A.B. All emails sent and received through the City server are saved for at least two 
years on the City’s network and are subject to the Public Records Act. 
C. 
Communication on social media sites are saved for at least two years. 
D. 
Text messages sent on any City-provided device are saved for at least two years. 
6. 
Social Media Use as a Commission Member 
87 of 214

--- page 88 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
26 
Social media are internet-based platforms that allow for interactive communication and 
engagement with the public. These may include (without limitation): Facebook, Twitter, 
Instagram, YouTube, TikTok, Snapchat, blogs, etc. 
The City’s image as a professional organization is critical to maintaining the respect of the 
public, and members should use discretion when posting or communicating on social 
media. If Commission Members choose to maintain and use personal social media 
accounts to conduct City business, they must follow current federal and state regulations, 
as well as Council and City policies. 
A. 
Brown Act:  Social media postings may turn into an interactive dialogue. The 
Brown Act has expanded to provide guidance on elected officials use of media 
platforms that are free of charge and open and accessible to the public. 
1. 
Permitted Uses: You may answer questions, provide information to public 
and solicit information from the public about city business; share a City 
post to your Council Member site; and tag other elected officials in a post. 
2. 
Prohibited Uses: A majority of the members may not use social media to 
discuss agency business and a member may not respond directly to any 
posting by another member regarding agency business including no ‘likes’ 
‘thumbs up’, ‘emojis’ or other symbols. 
B. 
First Amendment.  Commissioners social media platforms can become public 
forums subject to First Amendment requirements.  If a social media platform is 1) 
used for City business and 2) has interactive features that are accessible to the 
public without limitation, it is a public forum.  The City’s Social Media Policy 
contains rules for public participation and addresses what will constitute 
unacceptable content.  In general, officials may not block a member of the public 
from their social media sites if those sites have become public forums.  If 
unacceptable content appears on a site that has become a public forum, please 
consult with City staff. 
C. 
Public Records: Members are prohibited from deleting social media posts and 
related comments regarding any City-related matters to avoid violating the 
California Public Records Act. Social media is subject to the City’s record retention 
schedule. 
D. 
Best practices: Officials should be honest and accurate when posting information 
or news, especially when communicating during a crisis or emergency. Any 
mistakes, misstatements and/or factual errors must be corrected quickly upon 
discovery. When possible, news of citywide importance should first be announced 
by the official City-affiliated accounts then can be reshared by Commissioners. 
Unless the member has been designated to serve as a spokesperson, members 
88 of 214

--- page 89 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
27 
should never represent themselves as a spokesperson for the entire Commission 
or City. Members should be mindful of recognizing that accomplishments of the 
City or Commission are achieved by collective action of the entire body or 
organization. 
B.7.  
6.8. Written Communications for Commission Meetings on Agenda Items 
A. 
The deadline for the receipt of written communications for inclusion in the agenda 
packet is up to 54:00 pm one week before the Commission meeting. This is to 
allow for adequate staff review and analysis, and to ensure public access to 
information, on all plans, correspondence, and other documents supporting 
planning applications being heard by the Commission. Contact the cCommission’s 
Staff Liaison or Staff Admin for specifics. 
B. 
To be included in the addendum to the packet, items may be received up until 
noon 4 pm the day of the scheduled meeting.  
C. 
Materials distributed to Commissioners during the meeting shall be available for 
viewing by the public during the meeting if the materials were prepared by the 
City or a Commissioner, or at the conclusion of the meeting if prepared by another 
person. 
D. 
If a Commissioner receives materials regarding an agenda item, s/hethey shall 
forward it the Staff Liaison as soon as possible. 
7.9. Commission - Staff Relations 
A. 
Commissioners may make requests of City staff through their Department Head 
for limited research and information. Requests that will require significant staff 
time, as determined by the Staff Liaison, may be referred to the full Commission 
and only pursued if supported by a majority of the Commission.  All requests for 
research and information shall be made through the Staff Liaison. 
B. 
Commissioners are encouraged to submit their questions on agenda items to the 
Staff Liaison as far in advance of the meeting as possible so that staff can be 
prepared to respond at the Commission meeting.  
C. 
Clarifications or technical questions will be answered before the meeting 
whenever possible. 
D. 
Questions and all staff-prepared responses will be forwarded to all 
Commissioners. 
89 of 214

--- page 90 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
28 
8.10. Speaking for “the City” 
9. 
Similar to written correspondence, when Commissioners are requested to speak 
to groups or are asked the Commission’s position on an issue, the response should reflect 
the position of the Commission as a whole. Of course, a member may clarify his/hertheir 
vote on a matter by stating, for example, “While I voted against X, the Commission voted 
in support of it.” When representing the City at meetings or other venues, it is important 
that those in attendance gain an understanding of the Commission’s position rather than 
that of an individual member.  Speaking as an Individual 
11. Speaking as an Individual 
 
On occasion, Commissioners may wish to transmit correspondence on an issue upon 
which the Commission has yet to take a position or about an issue for which the 
Commission has no position. In these circumstances, members should clearly indicate in 
their communications that they are not speaking for the Commission or the City as a 
whole, but for themselves as an individual.   
 
 
90 of 214

--- page 91 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
29 
Chapter 10. Boards and Commissions Selection Process 
1. 
Refer to the San Mateo City Charter Article VI on Boards and Commissions. 
2. 
Reappointments, Vacancies and Appointments 
A. 
The City Clerk’s Office manages the Boards and Commissions (hereafter referred 
to as “Commission” for ease of reference) application process. The process begins 
with the Clerk contacting members who are eligible for appointment to a second 
term and finding out their interest in reappointment.   
B. 
The City Clerk then shares the results with each appointment subcommittee and 
receives direction on the need to schedules an appointment subcommittee 
meeting  special Council Meeting for Council to provide direction on 
reappointments. The City Clerk then schedules a special Council Meeting for 
Council to provide direction on reappointments. Reaches out The default is that 
currently serving Commissioners will each be interviewed for reappointment. 
However, if it is determined that a commissioner’s performance is outstanding, or 
that other factors necessitate keeping them in their role, then an automatic 
reappointment can occur with a majority vote or majority consensus of the City 
Council. Any commission seat selected for re-interviews, means the seat will be 
processed as part of the full annual recruitment and the currently sitting 
commissioner may be interviewed along with other applicants.   Commission 
recruitment occurs annually in the months of April and May and is managed by the 
City Clerk’s Office. For these routine vacancies, the announcement is made 
approximately two months prior to the date on which the vacancy is to occur. 
C. 
The City Clerk recruits for all open seats utilizing multiple avenues including: 
advertising, the mediathe websitepage, social media and networking lists to 
present qualified candidates to the Council for consideration. 
D. 
The interview and selection of candidates is an open process. 
E. 
The City Clerk receives the applications (ideally a minimum of three applications is 
sought for each vacant seat) and arranges for the appropriate sub-committee, in a 
noticed special meeting, to interview applicants and form their recommendation. 
F. 
Commissioners, Board and committee members (hereafter referred to as 
“Commissioners” for ease of reference) are appointed by a majority vote of the 
City Council and serve staggered terms. 
G. 
A City Council n Appointment Subcommittee conducts the candidate interviews 
and makes a recommendation for Council approval. The Council will receive the 
full list of candidates and applications for each opening.  
91 of 214

--- page 92 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
30 
H. 
The Appointment Subcommittee recommendations for new and reappointed 
Commissioners are confirmed by Council under the Consent Calendar at regular 
Council meetings. A staff report summarizing the Subcommittees’ 
recommendations will be provided to the full City Council and will include all of 
the applications that were reviewed by each subcommitteethe list of all 
candidates reviewed by the subcommittee. Council may adopt the 
recommendations as presented or pull the item for further discussion. A majority 
vote of Council approves the appointees. 
H.I. The designated Appointment Subcommittee may establish an eligibility list for up 
to two applicants that will remain in effect for one year. 
I.J. 
Unscheduled Vacancies 
1. 
Subject to the Maddy Act (California Government Code § 54970), if an 
unscheduled vacancy occurs on a commission, the Council may either 
appoint from the pool of applicants on file (the eligibility list if there is one 
available) or open up the position to new applications where the above 
process is followed. 
2. 
For such non-routine vacancies, the announcement for new applications is 
made as soon as possible in order to maintain viable memberships on the 
various boards and commissions. 
3. 
All appointments occur in an open public meeting. 
J.K. Youth Activities Council (YAC) Selection Process 
The YAC is the only group not appointed directly by the City Council but through 
an application method administered by Parks and Recreation. High school students 
from all of the City’s public high schools, as well as Junipero Serra High School and 
Nueva Upper School, are recruited for potential participation starting in the late 
spring of each year. 
 
 
92 of 214

--- page 93 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
Amended 5/21/2018
 
Study Session 4-19-21 
31 
Chapter 11. References 
1. 
San Mateo City Charter, §2.03, 2.04, 2.12, Article VI 
2. 
Ralph M. Brown Act (California Government Code, § 54950 et seq.) 
3. 
California Government Code, § 53234 et seq. 
4. 
San Mateo Municipal Code 
5. 
California Public Records Act (California Government Code, § 6250 et seq.) 
6. 
AB 1234 California Government Code, § 53232.3 
7. 
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order 
93 of 214

--- page 94 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4588
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Department
MEETING DATE:
May 03, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Board and Commissions – Confirm Reappointments, Appoint to Personnel Board, and Establish Annual Appointment 
Subcommittees
RECOMMENDATION:
Appoint the following Appointment Subcommittees: Mayor Rodriguez and Council Member Lee to the Park & Recreation 
Commission and Mayor Rodriguez and Deputy Mayor Bonilla to the Community Relations Commission. At the 
recommendation of the Personnel Board Subcommittee, appoint Debra Kaiser to a term ending 6-10-2025 and make the 
following reappointments to their next terms: Library Board - Lester Chen and Lisa Diaz Nash; Park & Recreation 
Foundation – Heather Wolnick; Planning Commission – John Ebneter and Ellen Mallory; Senior Citizen’s Commission – 
Irene Bluth; and Sustainability & Infrastructure – Susan Rowinski. 
BACKGROUND:
Per the City Council Guidelines, the City Council appoints an appointment subcommittee for each board or commission 
body, comprised of the Mayor (or designee) and the Council liaison to that commission. The guidelines also allow the other 
Council Members to participate as a member of the appointment subcommittee. As each meeting is publicly noticed and 
to ensure that the meeting is appropriately agendized, this is the opportunity for Council to add their names as a 
participant to the appointment subcommittee. 
There are two established vacancies in this annual recruitment period, one for Sean Williams' resignation for a full four-
year term on Park & Recreation; and one for the Community Relations Commission vacant seat from Farah Mahesri due to 
her moving out of the area. This is also for a full four-year term. Although the Community Relations Commission 
appointment subcommittee met in January 2021, an explicit eligibility list was not established. 
The Personnel Board Appointment Subcommittee met in January 2021 and did establish an eligibility list and Debra Kaiser 
is indicated as the next in line if a vacancy occurs. An eligibility list, if established, can be used for up to one year after 
creation. Debra has indicated she is interested in accepting the appointment. 
The first step in any annual recruitment is for those eligible for reappointment to indicate their interest in continuing to 
serve. The relevant appointment subcommittees have not indicated a need for interviewing for these reappointments. 
Therefore, the following are being asked to automatically be reappointed: 
Library Board: 
Lester Chen, 2nd term ending on 6-10-25 
Lisa Diaz Nash, a full first four-year term ending on 6-10-25 
94 of 214

--- page 95 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Park and Recreation Commission: 
Heather Wolnick, 2nd term ending on 6-10-25 
Planning Commission: 
John Ebneter, 2nd term ending on 6-10-25 
Ellen Mallory, a full first four-year term ending on 6-10-25 
Senior Citizens Commission: 
Irene Bluth, 2nd term ending on 6-10-25 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission: 
Susan Rowinski, a full first four-year term ending on 6-10-25 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this administrative function.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This appointments is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Boards and Commission List
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
95 of 214

--- page 96 ---
Updated 4/23/2021
Boards, Commissions & Committees List
Term
Date
Appt’d
Term 
Expires
Term
Date
Appt’d
Term 
Expires
COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSION(650) 522-7220
Meeting:  3rd Wednesday, 7:00 p.m. City Hall (Room C)
2
Nicole Fernandez, Chair
12-02-13
06-10-
22
0
Seema Patel
02-16-21
06-10-
22
0
Vacant
10-21-19
06-10-
21
1
Jerold Nugent
06-10-20
06-10-
24
1
Sharrie Overall
06-10-20
06-10-
24
PLANNING COMMISSION
(650) 522-7212
Meeting:  2nd & 4th Tuesdays, 7:00 p.m. Council 
Chambers
1
John Ebneter
06-01-15
06-10-
21
1
Mike Etheridge
02-20-18
06-10-22
1
Ramiro Maldonado, Vice Chair
06-18-18
06-10-
24
0
Ellen Mallory, Chair
06-18-18
06-10-
21
1
Margaret Williams
07-15-19
06-10-
23
LIBRARY BOARD
(650) 522-7802
Meeting:  4th Monday, 5:30 p.m. Main Library Cedar Rm.
1
Lester Chen
05-01-17
06-10-
21
2
Elizabeth De Winter, Vice President
07-20-
15 06-10-23
0
Lisa Diaz Nash, President
09-17-18
06-10-
21
2
Donald Hill
07-20-15
06-10-
22
0
Rod Linhares
02-16-21
06-10-
24
SENIOR CITIZENS COMMISSION
(650) 522-7400
Meeting:  2nd Monday, every other month beginning in 
January
4:00 p.m. San Mateo Senior Center
1
Lillian Barden, Vice Chair
08-19-19
06-10-
23
1
Irene Bluth
02-17-15
06-10-
21
2
Monika Lee, Chair
07-18-16
06-10-
24
1
Ellen Wang
07-20-20
06-10-
24
1
Mary Webb
02-17-15
06-10-
22
PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION(650) 522-7400
Meeting:  1st Wednesday, 7:00 p.m. City Hall (Room C)
0
Lindsey Held
07-20-20
06-10-
23
2
Eric Holm, Chair
10-06-14
06-10-
23
1
J. Christopher Massey
09-21-15
06-10-
22
1
Vacant
02-18-14
06-10-
21
1
Heather Wolnick 
07-17-17
06-10-
21
SUSTAINABILITY & INFRASTRUCTURE(650) 522-7153
COMMISSION
Meeting:  2nd Wednesday, 7:00 p.m. Council Chambers
1
Adam Loraine
07-20-20
06-10-
24
0
Kimi Narita
04-05-19
06-10-
23
1
Rafael Reyes
08-06-18
06-10-
22
1
Clifford S. Robbins
08-06-18
06-10-
22
0
Susan Rowinski, Chair
08-06-18 
06-10-
21
PERSONNEL BOARD
(650) 522-7260
Meeting:  3rd Tuesday, 7:00 p.m. City Hall (Room C)
2
Bryan Hollis
06-03-13
06-10-
21
1
Gayle Murphy, Vice Chair
07-20-15
06-10-
22
1
Vacant
06-19-17
06-10-
21
1
Robert Newsom
08-19-19
06-10-
YOUTH ACTIVITIES COUNCIL (YAC)
(650) 522-7432
Meets twice a month, Coordinator: Brandon Parra
Youth from the following schools represent the voice of 
San Mateo teens:  Aragon – Hillsdale – Serra – San 
Mateo
96 of 214

--- page 97 ---
Updated 4/23/2021
23
1
Tony Villanueva
01-19-21
06-10-
24
MOSQUITO & VECTOR CONTROL DISTRICT
(650) 573-8358
1
Ed Degliantoni
09-21-15
12-31-20
0 = appointed to unscheduled opening, eligible to serve a first full 
term
1 = in first term currently
2 = in second (final) term currently
Board and Commission Members are appointed by the City Council. To apply for future vacancies, or for further 
information, please contact the City Clerk. Members serve a four-year term of office. Qualifications:  Registered Voter of 
the City of San Mateo.
Term
Date
Appt’d
Term 
Expires
MEASURE S OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE(650) 522-7040
Meeting:  3rd Tuesday of the 2nd month of the quarter (February, May, August, November) at 6:00 p.m. City Hall (Room C)
2
Naomi Chin-Fuen Hsu
02/05/18
06/10/24
1
Richard W. Hedges, Vice Chair02/05/18
06/10/22
1
Thomas Morgan
02/05/18
06/10/21
1
Lisa Diaz Nash, Chair 
02/05/18
06/10/22
1
Vince Siminitus 
11/01/18
06/10/23
CIVIC ARTS COMMITTEE 
(650) 522-7164
Meeting:  2nd Monday, every other month beginning in January, 4:00 p.m. City Hall (Room C)
Robert Gooyer
Ramiro Maldonado
Ginger Slonaker
Stephen Tabler, Chair
Dianne Whitaker, Vice Chair
INVESTMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE(650) 522-7100
Meeting:  3rd Thursday of Jan/Apr/Jul/Oct at 3:30 p.m., City Hall (Room C)
Jeff Adams 
Michael Carney 
Chris deLong 
Mark Moroni 
Margaret Taylor, Chair 
97 of 214

--- page 98 ---
Updated 4/23/2021
Board and Commission Members are appointed by the City Council. To apply for future vacancies, or for further 
information, please contact the City Clerk. Members serve a four-year term of office. Qualifications: Registered Voter of 
the City of San Mateo.
/s/ PATRICE M. OLDS, CITY CLERK
98 of 214

--- page 99 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4525
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
May 03, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Community Development Block Grant 2021-22 Annual Action Plan – Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt the 2021-22 Annual Action Plan for the Community Development Block Grant Program.
BACKGROUND:
The Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program provides flexible funding for community development projects 
and programs to assist individuals and families from extremely low- to moderate-income households as defined by the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). San Mateo receives an entitlement grant based on a national 
formula and has participated in this program since 1977.
The City also received an entitlement amount of HOME funds from 1994 to 2015 that was used to assist housing programs 
and projects for very low-income households. HOME is a federal block grant designed exclusively to create affordable 
housing for low-income households through either building, buying, rehabilitating or providing rental assistance to low 
income units. In 2016, the City joined a consortium with the County of San Mateo and South San Francisco to pool our 
HOME funds to provide more efficiency and timeliness in expending those funds. The City still collects loan payments from 
loans made prior to 2015 and must re- program those funds into HOME-eligible projects.
2021-22 Annual Action Plan
The Annual Action Plan outlines the City’s budget for the coming program year with details of the programs and projects 
that will be undertaken to address the needs identified in the 2018 – 2023 Consolidated Plan. The Consolidated Plan is a 5 
year document from which each Annual Action Plan is derived. The purpose of the Consolidated plan is to outline the long 
term needs, priorities, and goals of the City of San Mateo as they relate to housing and urban development, and how the 
funding from HUD federal block grants will be used to address these issues. The CDBG grant is $759,246 for the 2021-22 
program year. The remaining funds for the budget will come from program income and prior year resources. The annual 
plan also includes programs to address affordable housing and other community needs. The major CDBG activities include:
• Administration – a maximum of 20% of the CDBG grant is eligible for administrative costs. The fair housing grant 
of $25,000 is included in the administration budget.
• Community Funding – the cap for public services is 15% of the grant and prior year program income. The 
Community Relations Commission identified non-profit agencies for provision of public services to meet priority 
needs last year, providing agencies with two-year agreements.
• Minor Home Repair – the City will fund three providers for home repair, energy upgrades, and accessibility 
modifications to eligible households.
• Street Improvement Project – the Department of Public Works will manage this project, prioritizing bicycle and 
pedestrian improvements located in the CDBG Priority Target Area consisting of the North Shoreview and North 
Central neighborhoods.
99 of 214

--- page 100 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
On March 17, the Community Relations Commission (CRC) met to review the draft 2021-22 Action Plan. The CRC motioned 
in support of recommending the City Council to adopt the plan.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The following CDBG budget is in the 2021-22 Annual Action Plan, as well as incorporated into the City budget. 
CDBG Expenditures
CDBG
Administration 
              
77,300 
Community Funding 
             
140,000 
Minor Home Repair
             
115,000 
Street Improvement
             
620,000 
TOTAL Expenditures
          
952,300 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This plan is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - 2021-22 Annual Action Plan
STAFF CONTACT
Nicky Vu, Housing Specialist
nvu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7229
100 of 214

--- page 101 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
1
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
CITY OF SAN MATEO
2021-2022
ANNUAL ACTION PLAN
PREPARED BY:
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
NEIGHBORHOOD IMPROVEMENT & HOUSING DIVISION
330 W. 20TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
(650) 522-7220
101 of 214

--- page 102 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
2
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Executive Summary 
AP-05 Executive Summary - 91.200(c), 91.220(b)
1.
Introduction
The Annual Action Plan (Annual Plan) is required of the City of San Mateo by the U.S. Department of 
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) in order for the City to receive federal Community Development 
Block Grant (CDBG) funds. The City's Annual Plan for fiscal year 2021-22 is the fourth year of the multi-
year 2018-22 Consolidated Plan. The Annual Plan outlines needs and develops strategies to address 
priority needs of low- and moderate-income populations in San Mateo.
2.
Summarize the objectives and outcomes identified in the Plan  
This could be a restatement of items or a table listed elsewhere in the plan or a reference to 
another location. It may also contain any essential items from the housing and homeless needs 
assessment, the housing market analysis or the strategic plan.
The City's Consolidated Plan identifies the following needs and has developed goals and activities that 
further HUD's program goals. 
Need: Affordable Housing
Goal: Increase, maintain, and improve the supply of affordable housing for low- and moderate-income 
families and individuals. 
Activities: The City will use CDBG and local funds for development of housing, acquisition and/or 
rehabilitation of housing, minor home repairs, weatherization, and accessibility modifications. 
Additionally, the City will continue to administer its existing below-market rate housing rental and 
ownership units. 
Need: Public Facilities Improvements
Goal: Preserve and improve public facilities that serve a high percentage of low- and moderate-income 
families as well as those with special needs. 
Activities: The City will use CDBG funds, when feasible, to make accessibility modification to public 
facilities and to provide funds for rehabilitation of facilities with urgent needs. 
Need: Public Services
102 of 214

--- page 103 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
3
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Goal: Provide services to improve quality of life for low- and moderate-income families and individuals, 
including those at risk of becoming homeless and special needs populations.
Activities: The City will allocate the 15% of its entitlement and 15% of the previous year's program 
income, as allowed by CDBG regulation, for the Community Funding Program. These funds will be 
granted to non-profit agencies for provision of public services. 
Need: Community Development
Goal: Infrastructure improvements in the CDBG Priority Neighborhood.
Activities: The City will use CDBG funds for capital projects such as replacement of failed streets and 
sidewalks, accessible curb ramps, traffic calming, as well as pedestrian and bikeways improvements. The 
Department of Public Works will manage projects. 
Need: Affirmatively Further Fair Housing
Goal: Address fair housing issues and contributing factors as determined by the Assessment of Fair 
Housing, which was approved by HUD in January 2018.
Activities: The City will allocate funds from administration for provision of fair housing services to be 
granted to a non-profit partner. The City will also work towards the goals from the Assessment of Fair 
Housing. 
 
3.
Evaluation of past performance 
This is an evaluation of past performance that helped lead the grantee to choose its goals or 
projects.
The City recognizes the ongoing needs of the San Mateo community and continues to fund core service 
needs. All of the Community Funding programs have met or exceeded their goals for service, showing an 
ongoing need for the services they are providing the community. The cost of housing continues to be 
extremely high in San Mateo and as a result many of the activities focus on services related to housing.
The City's Minor Home Repair programs have been slower to meet their goals, but all three 
organizations and City staff agree that there is a great need for their services. During the past year, City 
staff contacted agency staff to discuss challenges in providing these services and discuss realistic 
outcomes of program accomplishment and expenditures. The City will again update goals and grant 
amounts for the 2021-22 Program Year and re-evaluate grantees at the end of the year.
103 of 214

--- page 104 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
4
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
One concern from the sub grantees is that the rising costs of doing projects paired with new logistical 
difficulties from the COVID-19 pandemic have made it difficult to find and complete enough home 
repairs to stay on track of meeting goals.
For the 2021-2022 fiscal year the City will allocate an additional $620,000 for Street and Sidewalk 
Reconstruction activities. The project was in the initial planning phase during 2020-21 and will utilize 
combined funding of $1,020,000 to complete pedestrian and bicycle safety improvements in the CDBG 
priority neighborhood. Based on input from both community members, City Council and Public Works 
department, there is demonstrated ongoing need for this type of funding.
4.
Summary of Citizen Participation Process and consultation process 
Summary from citizen participation section of plan.
A Community Needs Assessment meeting was held in October 2020 by the Community Resources 
Commission (CRC), Outreach included notices to both social service providers and resident, inclusion in 
City E-newsletter, and posted on the City website.
5.
Summary of public comments
This could be a brief narrative summary or reference an attached document from the Citizen 
Participation section of the Con Plan.
Public comments were received by the City prior and during a public meeting for the Community 
Resources Commission. The meeting was held virtually on October 21, 2020. Comments from citizen 
stakeholders described their concerns over rising cost of renting, lack of affordable housing, and need 
for more pedestrian infrastructure.
6.
Summary of comments or views not accepted and the reasons for not accepting them
There weren't any community comments or views that were not considered for this year.
7.
Summary
The City's 2021-22 Annual Plan has been developed based on the City's four service priority needs as 
well as the goals set forth in the 2018-22 Consolidated Plan. 
104 of 214

--- page 105 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
5
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
PR-05 Lead & Responsible Agencies - 91.200(b)
1.
Agency/entity responsible for preparing/administering the Consolidated Plan
The following are the agencies/entities responsible for preparing the Consolidated Plan and those responsible for administration of 
each grant program and funding source.
Agency Role
Name
Department/Agency
CDBG Administrator
SAN MATEO
Community Development Department
HOME Administrator
SAN MATEO
Community Development Department
Table 1 – Responsible Agencies
Narrative
Consolidated Plan Public Contact Information
City of San Mateo 
Neighborhood Improvement and Housing Division
330 W. 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
Phone: (650) 522-7223
Email: housing@cityofsanmateo.org
105 of 214

--- page 106 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
6
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
AP-10 Consultation - 91.100, 91.200(b), 91.215(l)
1.
Introduction
The City consulted with many different stakeholders in developing this Annual Action Plan. Meetings 
were held internally with the Department of Public Works regarding prioritizing street reconstruction 
and pedestrian safety projects. Non-profit partners from the area were invited to Community Needs 
Assessment workshops and Community Relations Commission meetings. 
Provide a concise summary of the jurisdiction’s activities to enhance coordination between 
public and assisted housing providers and private and governmental health, mental health 
and service agencies (91.215(l)).
Throughout the Annual Action Plan period, the City will maintain its relationships with organizations that 
serve the public, especially low- and moderate-income residents. Efforts will include:

Working with other entitlement jurisdictions in San Mateo County to coordinate and streamline 
the CDBG process

Working with non-profit social service providers, the County of San Mateo, other entitlement 
jurisdictions, and other stakeholders to coordinate the provision of needed services in the 
community

Providing funds through the community funding program to non-profit service providers 

Working with non-profit organizations, private developers, and the County of San Mateo to 
build and maintain affordable housing

Working with the Continuum of Care, Homeless Outreach Team, and non-profit service 
providers to coordinate homeless services
Describe coordination with the Continuum of Care and efforts to address the needs of 
homeless persons (particularly chronically homeless individuals and families, families with 
children, veterans, and unaccompanied youth) and persons at risk of homelessness.
The Continuum of Care (COC) guides the implementation of the county's housing and service system to 
meet the needs of homeless individuals and families. The City of San Mateo participates in COC 
meetings and monitors decision-making to better understand latest trends in homeless outreach. The 
COC coordinates the following activities:

System planning (identifying gaps, developing strategies to fill gaps, responding to emerging 
best practices, etc.)

Setting funding priorities for Emergency Solutions Grant and COC funds

Assessing system performance and making system redesigns as needed

Coordinating with other planning entities such as the Community Action Agency
106 of 214

--- page 107 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
7
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)

Undertakes a wide range of efforts to meet the needs of homeless individuals and families
Chronically Homeless: COC has created a multi-disciplinary, bilingual, Homeless Outreach Team (HOT) to 
conduct intensive outreach and engagement with unsheltered and chronically homeless individuals and 
families located throughout the County, with specialized HOT teams in the cities of San Mateo, Redwood 
City, South San Francisco, Half Moon Bay, Pacifica, and East Palo Alto.
Families with children: To reduce the number of unsheltered families, the COC has developed a rapid re-
housing program. The San Mateo County Human Services Agency has provided funding for a motel 
voucher program to assist families with children that are waiting to access shelter.
Veterans: Needs include housing and assistance for homeless, employment and education services, and 
improved and increased liaisons with the Veterans Benefits Administration. 
Youth: Currently, HUD COC funds are provided to the San Mateo County Mental Health Association to 
operate its Support and Advocacy for Young Adults in Transition Program, which provides case 
management and housing search/stabilization services to homeless youth. The San Mateo County 
Housing Authority administers the Family Unification Program vouchers. 
Describe consultation with the Continuum(s) of Care that serves the jurisdiction’s area in 
determining how to allocate ESG funds, develop performance standards for and evaluate 
outcomes of projects and activities assisted by ESG funds, and develop funding, policies and 
procedures for the operation and administration of HMIS
The City of San Mateo does not receive Emergency Solutions Grant (ESG) funding, as the San Mateo 
County Department of Housing (DOH) is the sole recipient in the county. However, the City does 
participate in COC meetings as part of its ongoing responsibility in receiving HUD funding. DOH 
coordinates closely with the COC in regard to the County's ESG, COC, and CDBG funding and is 
represented on the COC Steering Committee. DOH has also delegated responsibility for management of 
all ESG funds, plush the portion of the County CDBG funds used for homeless activities, to the COC Lead 
Agency, and the San Mateo County Human Services Agency (HSA). Management responsibilities include 
issuing requests for proposals for ESG funding, awarding contracts, gathering community input, data 
analysis, and contract monitoring. The COC Lead Agency is also the Homeless Management Information 
System (HMIS) Lead Agency and develops the policies and procedures for operation and administration 
of HMIS for ESG funded projects. 
2.
Agencies, groups, organizations and others who participated in the process and 
consultations
107 of 214

--- page 108 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
8
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Table 2 – Agencies, groups, organizations who participated
Agency/Group/Organization
City of San Mateo
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Agency - Managing Flood Prone Areas
Agency - Management of Public Land or Water Resources
Agency - Emergency Management
Other government - Local
Grantee Department
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Infrastructure
1
Briefly describe how the Agency/Group/Organization 
was consulted. What are the anticipated outcomes of 
the consultation or areas for improved coordination?
The Department of Public Works was consulted for prioritization of funds for 
community development projects. Pedestrian safety and street reconstruction 
are priorities in the neighborhood. City Council has asked PW to prioritize 
implementation of its bike master plan. The Public Works department is 
responsible for overseeing public land, water resources, and flood plain area 
management. The Fire Department coordinates the annual review of the City's 
local hazard mitigation plan.
Agency/Group/Organization
LEGAL AID SOCIETY OF SAN MATEO COUNTY
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Services - Housing
Service-Fair Housing
Regional organization
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Housing Need Assessment
2
Briefly describe how the Agency/Group/Organization 
was consulted. What are the anticipated outcomes of 
the consultation or areas for improved coordination?
A representative from the Legal Aid Society of San Mateo spoke at the October 
21, 2020 Community Relations Commission special meeting about the need for 
debt relief and safe parking programs due to the looming end of the eviction 
moratorium and debt cliff. They thanked staff and the City for working with them 
and cited the ongoing need for legal and educational services for residents.
108 of 214

--- page 109 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
9
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Agency/Group/Organization
Ombudsman Services of San Mateo
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Services-Elderly Persons
Service-Fair Housing
Regional organization
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Housing Need Assessment
3
Briefly describe how the Agency/Group/Organization 
was consulted. What are the anticipated outcomes of 
the consultation or areas for improved coordination?
A representative from Ombudsman spoke at the October 21, 2020 Community 
Relations Commission special meeting. The representative reported a need for 
rental assistance for the elderly and provided an update on their program. They 
expressed concerns about the lack of affordable housing for seniors.
Agency/Group/Organization
HIP Housing
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Services - Housing
Regional organization
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Housing Need Assessment
4
Briefly describe how the Agency/Group/Organization 
was consulted. What are the anticipated outcomes of 
the consultation or areas for improved coordination?
A representative from HIP Housing attended the Community Relations 
Commission special meeting on October 21, 2020 to provide input on housing 
needs within the community and to provide updated statistics on home sharing 
in the City of San Mateo. The Home Sharing program matches those in need of 
affordable housing with members of the community that have extra space and 
are willing to share. HIP Housing reported a lack of affordable housing and 
increased difficulties at finding available housing during the corona virus 
pandemic.
109 of 214

--- page 110 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
10
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Agency/Group/Organization
Community Overcoming Relationship Abuse (CORA)
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Services - Housing
Services-Victims of Domestic Violence
Regional organization
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Housing Need Assessment
5
Briefly describe how the Agency/Group/Organization 
was consulted. What are the anticipated outcomes of 
the consultation or areas for improved coordination?
A representative from CORA spoke at the October 21, 2020 Community Relations 
Commission special meeting, thanking the City for previous support. CORA 
provides legal assistance for survivors of domestic violence. CORA reported that 
victims of abuse were returning to their abusive homes with the lack of options 
available during the COVID-19 pandemic, and that more funds to create shelter 
options were needed.
Agency/Group/Organization
Project Sentinel
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Services – Housing
Service-Fair Housing
Regional organization
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Housing Need Assessment
6
Briefly describe how the Agency/Group/Organization 
was consulted. What are the anticipated outcomes of 
the consultation or areas for improved coordination?
A representative from Project Sentinel spoke at the October 21, 2020 
Community Relations Commission special meeting about the increase of more 
reports of abuse and noise complaints during the pandemic. Project Sentinel 
investigates issues of fair housing on behalf of the City of San Mateo.
Agency/Group/Organization
Peninsula Conflict Resolution Center (PCRC)
7
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Community Engagement
110 of 214

--- page 111 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
11
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Other Basic Human Needs
Briefly describe how the Agency/Group/Organization 
was consulted. What are the anticipated outcomes of 
the consultation or areas for improved coordination?
A representative from PCRC attended the October 21, 2020 CRC meeting.  PCRC 
reported difficulty for minorities to access corona virus assistance due to 
unfamiliarity with government programs and language barriers. PCRC provides 
conflict resolution within at-risk community through socially driven solutions.
Agency/Group/Organization
Childcare Coordinating Council of San Mateo County (4Cs)
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Services-Children
Regional organization
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Childcare
8
Briefly describe how the Agency/Group/Organization 
was consulted. What are the anticipated outcomes of 
the consultation or areas for improved coordination?
A representative from 4C attended the October 21, 2020 CRC meeting requested 
that the city consider the critical need for assistance for childcare providers in 
the County that have had to cease operations during the COVID-19 crisis. 4Cs 
reported a need to support childcare providers with rental or business 
assistance. 4Cs provides guidance, support, and advocacy on behalf childcare 
providers throughout the region.
Agency/Group/Organization
Renaissance Entrepreneurship Center
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Services-Employment
Regional organization
9
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Economic Development
111 of 214

--- page 112 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
12
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Briefly describe how the Agency/Group/Organization 
was consulted. What are the anticipated outcomes of 
the consultation or areas for improved coordination?
A representative from the Renaissance Entrepreneurship Center spoke at the 
November 18, 2020 Community Relations Commission special meeting. The 
representative provided an update on their economic development program 
during the COVID-19 pandemic. New programs for business recovery, online 
training, and virtual marketplaces were being explored to adjust to working 
under shelter-in-place regulations.
Identify any Agency Types not consulted and provide rationale for not consulting
Despite outreach to an extensive stakeholder list, the agencies who provide the following services did not provide the City with consultation:

Services - People with HIV/AIDS

Services - Broadband Internet Service Providers

Services - Narrowing the Digital Divide
Despite the lack of response, several of these needs are addressed by grants awarded to public service agencies in the community funding 
program.
Other local/regional/state/federal planning efforts considered when preparing the Plan
Name of Plan
Lead Organization
How do the goals of your Strategic Plan overlap with the goals of each plan?
Continuum of 
Care
San Mateo County 
Human Services 
Agency
The City has identified the core service needs of Basic Human Needs and Preserving or Providing 
Affordable Housing, both of which support homelessness programming.
112 of 214

--- page 113 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
13
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Name of Plan
Lead Organization
How do the goals of your Strategic Plan overlap with the goals of each plan?
Housing 
Element
City of San Mateo
The Housing Element documents the housing needs in San Mateo and includes the programs and 
policies to address its Four Goals: Maintain the quality and character of residential neighborhoods; 
Provide a diversity of housing types, responsive to household size, income and age needs; Ensure 
that all new housing is developed or remodeled in a sustainable manner; Encourage conservation 
improvements and measures to the existing housing stock.
Local Hazard 
Mitigation Plan
City of San Mateo - 
Fire
The plan focuses on the protection of the community from risks associated with disaster. Included 
are goals to protect community, housing stock, and economic resources. This plan overlaps with the 
Consolidated Plan as it identifies social vulnerability of low-income households to disasters.
Table 3 - Other local / regional / federal planning efforts
Narrative
113 of 214

--- page 114 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
14
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
AP-12 Participation - 91.401, 91.105, 91.200(c)
1.
Summary of citizen participation process/Efforts made to broaden citizen participation
Summarize citizen participation process and how it impacted goal-setting
The City of San Mateo followed guidelines specified in its Community Participation Plan, engaging as many stakeholders as possible in setting 
goals and prioritizing the community's needs for the Annual Action Plan. The following actions were taken:

October 2, 2020 – Sent meeting announcement slide to Channel 27 public service channel

October 8, 2020 - Email to non-profit partners, neighborhood associations, and other community stakeholders with event information 
with promotional flyer

October 11, 2020 - Newspaper ad with meeting notification

October 11, 2020- Posted on City Community Needs Assessment webpage

October 19, 2020 - Sent notification via email to the listserv of community members signed up for Community Relations Commission 
events

October 21, 2020 - Special meeting of Community Relations Commission for the Needs Assessment

March 11, 2021 - City Web posting, and email notification of draft Annual Plan

March 11, 2021 - Email to non-profit partners, neighborhood associations, and other community stakeholders with event information, 
sent notification via email to the listserv of community members signed up for Community Relations Commission events

March 12, 2021 - Newspaper Ad

March 17, 2021 Regular meeting of Community Relations Commission, hearing for the draft Annual Plan
114 of 214

--- page 115 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
15
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Citizen Participation Outreach
Sort Order
Mode of Outreach
Target of Outreach
Summary of 
response/attendance
Summary of 
comments received
Summary of comments 
not accepted 
and reasons
URL (If 
applicable)
1
Promotional Flyer
Non-
targeted/broad 
community
October 8, 2020. 
Shared promotional 
flyer in English and 
Spanish via email.
No comments were 
received.
n/a
 
2
Newspaper Ad
Non-
targeted/broad 
community
October 11, 2020. Ad 
posted in Examiner to 
announce the 
Community Needs 
Hearing at the 
Community Relations 
Commission meeting. 
The ad also 
announced a public 
comment period.
No comments 
received.
n/a
 
115 of 214

--- page 116 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
16
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Sort Order
Mode of Outreach
Target of Outreach
Summary of 
response/attendance
Summary of 
comments received
Summary of comments 
not accepted 
and reasons
URL (If 
applicable)
3
Public Meeting
Non-
targeted/broad 
community
October 21, 2020. 
Several members of 
the community, 
representatives from 
local non-profits, and 
other stakeholders 
were in attendance 
for the special 
meeting of the 
Community Relations 
Commission. A 
summary of 
community member 
comments is included 
here, and comments 
from other 
stakeholders is 
included in the 
consultation section 
of the plan.
A community 
member provided 
comments on a 
number of 
infrastructure 
improvements that 
could be made in 
and around their 
neighborhood. 
These included 
street and sidewalk 
improvements, as 
well as additional 
signage and 
pedestrian 
crossings.
n/a
 
116 of 214

--- page 117 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
17
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Sort Order
Mode of Outreach
Target of Outreach
Summary of 
response/attendance
Summary of 
comments received
Summary of comments 
not accepted 
and reasons
URL (If 
applicable)
4
Internet Outreach
Non-
targeted/broad 
community
October 8, 2020; 
October 19, 2020; 
May 11, 2021. Emails 
sent out to the 
Community Relations 
Commission interest 
list announcing the 
special meetings.
No comments 
received.
n/a
5
Newspaper Ad
Non-
targeted/broad 
community
March 12, 2020. Ad 
posted in Examiner to 
announce the Draft 
Action Plan at the 
Community Relations 
Commission meeting. 
The ad also 
announced a public 
comment period.
No comments 
received.
n/a
Table 4 – Citizen Participation Outreach
117 of 214

--- page 118 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
18
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Expected Resources
AP-15 Expected Resources - 91.420(b), 91.220(c)(1,2)
Introduction
Anticipated resources from CDBG include the 2020 entitlement grant of $747,853. Unless waived by HUD, CDBG pre-award costs for FY 2020-
2021 will not exceed 25% of the grant and will be used for the CDBG eligible activities as indicated above. 
Anticipated Resources
Expected Amount Available Year 1
Program
Source 
of 
Funds
Uses of Funds
Annual 
Allocation: 
$
Program 
Income: 
$
Prior Year 
Resources: 
$
Total:
$
Expected 
Amount 
Available 
Remainder 
of ConPlan 
$
Narrative Description
CDBG
public - 
federal
Acquisition
Admin and 
Planning
Economic 
Development
Housing
Public 
Improvements
Public Services
759,246
6,500
219,200
984,946
1,209,142
Annual Allocation includes CDBG 2021 
entitlement of $759,246.
118 of 214

--- page 119 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
19
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Expected Amount Available Year 1
Program
Source 
of 
Funds
Uses of Funds
Annual 
Allocation: 
$
Program 
Income: 
$
Prior Year 
Resources: 
$
Total:
$
Expected 
Amount 
Available 
Remainder 
of ConPlan 
$
Narrative Description
public - 
federal
Housing
Other
17,000
635,000
652,000
0
City is now part of HOME Consortium 
with County of San Mateo and South San 
Francisco for new HOME grant funds. 
However, City still occasionally receives 
program income in the form of loan 
repayments from projects funded with 
HOME funds prior to 2015.
Other
public – 
local
Housing
0
7,658,000
7,658,000
642,000
Local funds from commercial linkage fee, 
and annual 20% of tax increment 
(boomerang funds) and loan repayments 
from former Redevelopment Agency.
Table 5 - Expected Resources – Priority Table
Explain how federal funds will leverage those additional resources (private, state and local funds), including a description of how 
matching requirements will be satisfied
The City receives direct entitlement funds from Federal CDBG Program that are used to address identified needs. The City is also part of the San 
Mateo County HOME Consortium; HOME funds formerly granted directly to the City are now combined with the County of San Mateo and the 
City of South San Francisco in order to use the funds more efficiently. The City also receives HOME loan repayments from projects assisted with 
HOME funds provided prior to joining the consortium in 2015.
The City manages a varied portfolio of housing loans from several programs including Housing Rehabilitation and First Time Homebuyer 
programs as well as developer loans for new construction or acquisition/rehabilitation projects. Program income from this portfolio augments 
the CDBG and HOME funds as well as now defunct programs such as Redevelopment and former CalHOME owner rehab loan program. Loan 
repayments from loans funded with former Redevelopment funds are deposited in the Low Mod Housing Asset Fund to be used for future 
119 of 214

--- page 120 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
20
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
affordable housing programs.  The City also sets aside the equivalent of 20% of the property tax increment attributed to the former 
Redevelopment areas for housing, known as “boomerang funds”. The City collects subordination processing fees and fractional unit fees 
associated with its Below Market Rate Program in its City Housing Fund, which is typically used to assist regional housing initiatives that are 
outside of the San Mateo’s city limits. 
The City Council adopted a commercial linkage fee ordinance which became effective on 11/5/16. New commercial projects with square footage 
in excess of 5,000 square feet pay a fee to mitigate the impact of new jobs on local housing supply.
Starting this year, the City will receive and annual allocation of the State Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PHLA) as provided by the Building 
Homes and Jobs Act to increase the supply of affordable housing.  It is estimated that the City will receive approximately $340,000 for 
2020.  There are a number of new State programs that City will watch and apply for as they become available including Local Early Action 
Planning grants to support planning efforts to increase the supply of housing, as well as the Local Housing Trust Fund Program.  The City also 
tracks and supports legislation that promotes and increases resources for affordable housing.
Section 8 funds are provided to San Mateo residents through the San Mateo County Housing Authority. McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance 
Act funds are managed by the San Mateo County Human Services Agency as part of the Continuum of Care, in which San Mateo participates. The 
County of San Mateo also supports housing projects countywide with its HOME and CDBG funds which often are used to leverage City resources. 
The Housing Endowment and Regional Trust (HEART) of San Mateo County is a public/private partnership whose goal is to raise funds to create 
affordable housing opportunities in San Mateo County. 
Low-Income Housing Tax Credits are offered through the State on a competitive process and with the dissolution of Redevelopment, 
applications for these funds are expected to become even more in demand and competitive. The State also has also set aside a portion of the 
Cap and Trade funds for housing located close to transit in its Affordable Housing Sustainable Communities program. The City will support 
developer applications for tax credits and other State Housing programs as they become available for appropriate and eligible projects.
If appropriate, describe publicly owned land or property located within the jurisdiction that may be used to address the needs 
identified in the plan
As a result of the dissolution of the Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Mateo, a Long Range Property Management Plan has been drafted 
and approved by the State. City chose MidPen Housing for the development of two sites (approx. 2.4 acres total) located in downtown San 
120 of 214

--- page 121 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
21
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Mateo that were owned by the former Redevelopment Agency. The sites will be developed with 225 affordable housing units and a public 
parking garage. The project obtained full planning approvals and an executed Disposition, Development and Loan Agreement in summer of 
2020. Construction is to begin by the end of 2021.
Discussion
121 of 214

--- page 122 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
22
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Annual Goals and Objectives
AP-20 Annual Goals and Objectives - 91.420, 91.220(c)(3)&(e)
Goals Summary Information 
Sort 
Order
Goal Name
Start 
Year
End 
Year
Category
Geographic Area
Needs Addressed
Funding
Goal Outcome Indicator
1
Maintain and 
Preserve Existing 
Housing
2018
2022
Affordable 
Housing
 
Affordable 
Housing
CDBG: 
$115,000
City sources: 
$500,000
Homeowner Housing 
Rehabilitated: 47 Household 
Housing Unit
2
Community Funding
2018
2022
Public Services
 
Public Services
CDBG: 
$140,000
Public service activities other 
than Low/Moderate Income 
Housing Benefit: 4205 
Persons Assisted
Businesses assisted: 40 
Businesses Assisted
3
Street and Sidewalk 
Improvements
2018
2022
Non-Housing 
Community 
Development
CDBG Priority 
Neighborhood
Community 
Development
CDBG: 
$620,000
Public Facility or 
Infrastructure Activities 
other than Low/Moderate 
Income Housing Benefit: 
20000 Persons Assisted
4
AFH Goal: 
Affirmative 
Marketing of 
Housing
2018
2021
Affordable 
Housing
 
AFH Factor: Lack 
of Effective 
Marketing 
Strategies
CDBG: $0
Other: 1 Other
122 of 214

--- page 123 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
23
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Sort 
Order
Goal Name
Start 
Year
End 
Year
Category
Geographic Area
Needs Addressed
Funding
Goal Outcome Indicator
5
AFH Goal: Facilitate 
Streamlined Review 
of Housing
2018
2019
Affordable 
Housing
 
AFH Factor: 
Development 
Approval 
Challenges
AFH Factor: Lack 
of Support for 
Affordable 
Housing
CDBG: $0
Other: 1 Other
6
AFH Goal: Support 
Education of 
Stakeholders
2018
2020
Affordable 
Housing
 
AFH Factor: Lack 
of Support for 
Affordable 
Housing
AFH Factor: 
Resistance to 
Density and 
Growth
CDBG: $0
Other: 1 Other
7
AFH Goal: 
Strengthen Section 8 
Program
2018
2019
Affordable 
Housing
 
Affordable 
Housing
CDBG: $0
Other: 1 Other
8
AFH Goal: Retention 
of Special Needs 
Housing
2018
2020
Affordable 
Housing
 
Affordable 
Housing
CDBG: $0
Other: 1 Other
9
AFH Goal: Support 
Displaced 
Households
2018
2022
Affordable 
Housing
 
Affordable 
Housing
CDBG: $0
Other: 1 Other
123 of 214

--- page 124 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
24
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Sort 
Order
Goal Name
Start 
Year
End 
Year
Category
Geographic Area
Needs Addressed
Funding
Goal Outcome Indicator
10
AFH Goal: 
Reasonable 
Accommodation 
Policy
2018
2022
Affordable 
Housing
 
AFH Factor: Lack 
of Zoning 
Flexibility
CDBG: $0
Other: 1 Other
11
AFH Goal: Dev. of 
Accessory Dwelling 
Units
2018
2022
Affordable 
Housing
 
Affordable 
Housing
CDBG: $0
Other: 1 Other
12
First Time 
Homebuyer
2018
2022
Affordable 
Housing
 
Affordable 
Housing
City sources: 
$300,000
Direct Financial Assistance to 
Homebuyers: 6 Households 
Assisted
13
Affordable Housing
2018
2022
Affordable 
Housing
 
Affordable 
Housing
CDBG: $0
Affordable 
Housing: 
$642,000
City sources: 
$6,858,000
Rental units constructed: 225 
Household Housing Unit
Table 6 – Goals Summary
Goal Descriptions
124 of 214

--- page 125 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
25
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Goal Name
Maintain and Preserve Existing Housing
1
Goal 
Description
Provide funds to preserve, repair, and maintain existing housing stock. Emphasis on repairs that clear health and safety 
issues, retrofits to homes for more sustainability and energy efficiency, and make properties more accessible for 
individuals with special needs. 
This is the fourth year of the 2018 Consolidated Plan, and the outcome below will be a part of the larger goal 
represented in that plan. 
Goal Name
Community Funding
2
Goal 
Description
Provide grants to non-profit organizations for provision of public services to low- and moderate-income families in San 
Mateo.
This is the fourth year of the 2018 Consolidated Plan, and the outcome below will be a part of the larger goal 
represented in that plan. 
Goal Name
Street and Sidewalk Improvements
3
Goal 
Description
Repair deteriorated streets, as well as provide accessibility and public safety improvements to streets and sidewalks for 
pedestrians, bicycles and autos in the CDBG Priority Neighborhood. 
This is the fourth year of the 2018 Consolidated Plan, and the outcome below will be a part of the larger goal 
represented in that plan. 
125 of 214

--- page 126 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
26
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Goal Name
AFH Goal: Affirmative Marketing of Housing
4
Goal 
Description
Ensure affirmative marketing of City assisted affordable housing is targeted to all segments of the community. Develop 
marketing plan with developers of affordable housing projects during final phase of construction. Focus outreach to 
those least likely to apply based on racial make-up of neighborhood. Include Spanish marketing materials and ensure 
bilingual interpretation services are available. 
Contributing factors to be addressed:

Lack of awareness of effective affirmative marketing strategies
Fair housing issues/impediments: 

Disproportionate housing needs

displacement due to rent increases for Spanish speaking and large households

Lack of accessible housing for persons with disabilities

Limited housing for families
Metrics and milestones: 

Develop Marketing Plan with developers of affordable housing projects during final phase of construction

Focus outreach to those least likely to apply based on racial make-up of neighborhood

Include Spanish marketing materials and ensure bilingual interpretation services are available
Timeframe for achievement: 
Marketing Plan for Kiku Crossing Housing project by Summer 2022
126 of 214

--- page 127 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
27
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Goal Name
AFH Goal: Facilitate Streamlined Review of Housing
5
Goal 
Description
Adopt additional development review practices that facilitate housing creation including streamlining reviews. This has 
been addressed by State legislation recently as well and will continue to be part of the conversation around affordable 
housing developments going forward. 
Contributing factors to be addressed:

Challenges with development approval process

Lack of support for affordable housing, creating barriers to approval 
Fair housing issues/impediments: 

Disproportionate housing needs
Metrics and milestones: 

Draft Guidelines for concurrent Planning Building Plan Check pilot program was implemented and not successful 
(2017-18)

New milestones to streamline reviews is to implement electronic plan check to speed up approval 
process.(completed 2020)

Utilize CEQA exemptions for affordable housing when appropriate.
Timeframe for achievement: 
Ongoing
127 of 214

--- page 128 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
28
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Goal Name
AFH Goal: Support Education of Stakeholders
6
Goal 
Description
As part of a regional goal, support and engage in efforts to educate community stakeholders and residents about 
housing gaps and the effects of programs and policies on addressing those gaps. City’s Downtown Specific Plan, along 
with the 2023 Housing Element have been combined with the General Plan Update which makes the project more 
complex and requiring additional outreach.  The City has participated in countrywide Home For All programs to learn 
about best practices from others and has expanded the community outreach efforts, especially targeting those who 
typically do not attend public meetings. 
Contributing factors to be addressed:

Lack of support for housing

Suburban scale communities resistant to added density

Frustration with recent growth implications
Fair housing issues/impediments: 

Lack of support for affordable housing
Metrics and milestones: 

Continue community engagement process for General Plan (including Housing Element) 
update                                                     

Participate in countywide Home For All "Learning Network" to share best practices (completed 2019)
Timeframe for achievement: 
General Plan adoption target is revised to 2023
128 of 214

--- page 129 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
29
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Goal Name
AFH Goal: Strengthen Section 8 Program
7
Goal 
Description
As part of the regional goal, strengthen utilization of the Section 8 program. Explore a multi-family rehabilitation and 
accessibility improvement program to provide an incentive for landlords to remain in the Housing Choice Voucher 
program and those willing to offer naturally occurring affordable rental housing. 
Contributing factors to be addressed:

Loss of affordable housing

Lack of affordable housing supply

High housing costs
Fair housing issues/impediments: 

Disproportionate housing needs

Displacement due to rent increases for Spanish speaking and large households

Lack of accessible housing for persons with disabilities

Limited housing for families
Metrics and milestones: 

Collaborate with County Housing Authority staff to review current practices and potential options.

Explore Section 8 non discrimination policy was resolved by State legislation SB 329 passed October 2019.
Timeframe for achievement: 

Ongoing
129 of 214

--- page 130 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
30
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Goal Name
AFH Goal: Retention of Special Needs Housing
8
Goal 
Description
Assist with the retention of special needs housing that is at risk of expiring affordability requirements. This includes 
outreach and negotiation of developments that are currently reserved for individuals with special needs, as well as 
continuing efforts to assist in new developments. 
Contributing factors to be addressed:

Loss of affordable housing

Displacement of residents

Lack of accessible housing
Fair housing issues/impediments: 

Disproportionate housing needs

Lack of support for special needs housing
Metrics and milestones: 

Outreach and negotiate with Mateo Lodge for affordability extensions for Humboldt House (9 units)(completed 
2021)
Timeframe for achievement: 

Ongoing
130 of 214

--- page 131 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
31
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Goal Name
AFH Goal: Support Displaced Households
9
Goal 
Description
As part of the regional goal, continue funding and support for outreach services for homeowners and renters at risk of 
being displaced and/or facing fair housing challenges. Provide grants to sub-recipients under the administration cap in 
CDBG for provision of fair housing services. 
Contributing factors to be addressed:

Loss of affordable housing

Lack of affordable housing supply

High housing costs
Fair housing issues/impediments: 

Disproportionate housing needs

Displacement due to rent increases for Spanish speaking and large households

Limited housing for families
Metrics and milestones: 

Annual Fair Housing activity goals: investigate 23 cases, provide R & I to 45 individuals, public 
education/outreach to 100 individuals

Annual legal assistance to renters: 125 individuals
Timeframe for achievement: 

Annual Goal completed each year by June 30
131 of 214

--- page 132 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
32
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Goal Name
AFH Goal: Reasonable Accommodation Policy
10
Goal 
Description
Continue implementation of City Reasonable Accommodation Policy to allow for relaxation of City zoning codes on 
residential properties used by persons with disabilities. Review requests for Reasonable Accommodation as they are 
submitted. 
Contributing factors to be addressed:

Lack of flexibility in zoning code
Fair housing issues/impediments: 

Disproportionate housing needs

Lack of accessible housing for persons with disabilities
Metrics and milestones: 

Review requests for Reasonable Accommodations as they are submitted
Timeframe for achievement: 

Ongoing
132 of 214

--- page 133 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
33
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Goal Name
AFH Goal: Dev. of Accessory Dwelling Units
11
Goal 
Description
As part of the regional goal, encourage development of Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU) and Junior Accessory Dwelling 
Units (JADU) to increase lower cost housing in the community. This includes collaboration with 21 Elements in outreach 
and education on the development of ADU/JADU. City revised its ADU ordinance and adopted lower flat fees in 2017, 
2018 and 2019. Further modifications of the ordinance are underway to provide additional streamlining.
Contributing factors to be addressed:

Loss of affordable housing

Lack of affordable housing supply

High housing costs
Fair housing issues/impediments: 

Disproportionate housing needs

Segregation increases

Decline in access to opportunity (depending on ADU locations)
Metrics and milestones: 

Amend City ADU Ordinance to further streamline development of units.
Timeframe for achievement: 

Ongoing
Goal Name
First Time Homebuyer
12
Goal 
Description
Ensure continued affordability for low income homebuyers in the City's First Time Homebuyer program for the purchase 
of resales of price restricted units at Gateway Commons and Meadow Court or other City assisted units citywide.
133 of 214

--- page 134 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
34
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Goal Name
Affordable Housing
13
Goal 
Description
Provide funding for new construction, acquisition and/or rehabilitation of affordable units through City financial 
assistance and the inclusionary Below Market Rate program.
134 of 214

--- page 135 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
AP-35 Projects - 91.420, 91.220(d)
Introduction 
Activities planned for 2020-21 are similar to those from recent years. The City will continue to use CDBG 
administration funds for provision of fair housing activities, public services for grants to non-profit public 
service agencies, and the remainder of CDBG funds for minor home repair programs, community 
development projects, and economic development. 
#
Project Name
1
Community Funding Program
2
Home Energy and Repair Program
3
CDBG Admin
4
Street and Sidewalk Reconstruction
5
Affordable Housing
Table 7 – Project Information
Describe the reasons for allocation priorities and any obstacles to addressing underserved 
needs
The housing, social service, and community development needs of the community are overwhelming 
when compared to funding available from CDBG and other sources. Allocations of funding are made 
with careful consideration of the community's needs and input from the citizen participation process 
and the Community Relations Commission. City staff, along with other jurisdictions and community 
partners, cooperate in order to streamline processes and avoid duplication of services in an effort to 
maximize the available resources. 
The City of San Mateo continues to work with the community to best respond to the ongoing COVID-19 
pandemic.
135 of 214

--- page 136 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
AP-38 Project Summary
Project Summary Information
136 of 214

--- page 137 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
37
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Project Name
Community Funding Program
Target Area
 
Goals Supported
Community Funding
Needs Addressed
Public Services
Funding
CDBG: $140,000
Description
Provide $115,000 in funds to non-profit agencies to provide public 
services for the core service priorities including basic human needs, 
senior services, youth services, and providing affordable housing. 
Provide $25,000 in funds to an agency for provision of an economic 
development program. These funds are part of the community funding 
program, but will come from outside the public service cap.
Target Date
6/30/2022
Estimate the number 
and type of families 
that will benefit from 
the proposed 
activities
Project will only serve low- and moderate-income individuals and 
families, as well as those from presumed benefit groups such as abused 
children, victims of domestic violence, elderly, and homeless. Based on 
reports from prior years, the project will serve approximately 4,205 San 
Mateo residents. The economic development program will serve 40 
businesses. 
1
Location Description
Project will serve the community members citywide. 
137 of 214

--- page 138 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
38
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Planned Activities
Project provides funds to non-profit agency sub-recipients to carry out 
public service programs. Agencies interface with a variety of 
departments within the City including police, housing, and code 
enforcement on a regular basis to further their efforts in the community. 
The City anticipates funding seven sub-recipients evenly with available 
funding. In addition, the City is funding an economic development 
program outside of the public services cap. The awards for this year as 
follows:
CALL Primrose: drop-in food pantry program providing free grocery 
services. Goal is to serve 1,296 individuals. 
CORA: providing survivors of domestic violence and their children with 
legal services. Goal is to serve 67 individuals. 
IEP Collaborative: Serve families that have children with special 
education needs through training and counseling. Goal is to serve 270 
individuals.
Legal Aid Society of San Mateo County: legal services to households in 
danger of eviction and/or living in substandard conditions. Goal is to 
serve 285 clients. 
Life Moves: provide shelter and supportive services to assist homeless 
individuals to return to self- sufficiency at the First Step for Families 
facility which includes 117 beds. Goal is to serve 215 clients
Ombudsman: advocate for the dignity and quality of life of people living 
in licensed long term care facilities. Goal is to serve 1,992 individuals
Rape Trauma Services: services for abused children from infancy through 
17 years of age. Goal is to serve 80 individuals.
Renaissance Entrepreneurship Center: provides customized training for 
English and Spanish speaking business owners to start and grow small 
businesses. Goal is to serve 40 businesses.
Project Name
Home Energy and Repair Program
Target Area
 
Goals Supported
Maintain and Preserve Existing Housing
Needs Addressed
Affordable Housing
Funding
CDBG: $115,000
City sources: $500,000
2
Description
Provides funding to non-profit agencies to provide minor repairs, 
accessibility modifications, and energy efficiency measures to income 
eligible homeowners.
138 of 214

--- page 139 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
39
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Target Date
6/30/2022
Estimate the number 
and type of families 
that will benefit from 
the proposed 
activities
Project will assist 47 households with repairs and energy improvements. 
Location Description
Project will only apply to homes located in the City of San Mateo. 
Planned Activities
Project will provide grants to sub-recipients for programs to complete 
minor rehabilitation, energy improvements, and accessibility 
improvements to low- and moderate-income homeowners. Four grants 
will be provided to three agencies as follows:

Rebuilding Together Peninsula: Safe at Home program provides 
minor home repairs including health and safety measures, 
emergency electrical and plumbing, etc. Goal is to serve 12 
households.

Center for Independence of Individuals with Disabilities: Housing 
Accessibility Modifications program provides accessibility 
measures to homes including grab bars, wheelchair ramps, etc. 
Goal is to serve 14 households. 

El Concilio of San Mateo County: Peninsula Minor Home Repair 
program provides energy efficiency measures including repair of 
leaking windows/doors, water conservation measures, etc. Goal 
is to serve 10 households.

Rebuilding Together Peninsula: National Rebuilding Day provides 
larger scale rehabilitation of homes in conjunction with 
volunteers and many other funding sources. Goal is to serve four 
households. 
Rebuilding Together: Housing Rehabilitation Loan Program uses funds 
from the State of California's CalHome program. RTP will provide 
construction administration for loans up to $60,000 to low-income 
households. Staff projects seven homes will receive funds in Program 
Year 2021. 
Project Name
CDBG Admin
3
Target Area
 
139 of 214

--- page 140 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
40
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Goals Supported
Maintain and Preserve Existing Housing
Community Funding
Street and Sidewalk Improvements
AFH Goal: Affirmative Marketing of Housing
AFH Goal: Facilitate Streamlined Review of Housing
AFH Goal: Support Education of Stakeholders
AFH Goal: Strengthen Section 8 Program
AFH Goal: Retention of Special Needs Housing
AFH Goal: Support Displaced Households
AFH Goal: Reasonable Accommodation Policy
AFH Goal: Dev. of Accessory Dwelling Units
Needs Addressed
Affordable Housing
Public Services
Community Development
Public Facilities Improvements
AFH Factor: Lack of Effective Marketing Strategies
AFH Factor: Development Approval Challenges
AFH Factor: Lack of Support for Affordable Housing
AFH Factor: Resistance to Density and Growth
AFH Factor: Lack of Zoning Flexibility
Funding
CDBG: $77,300
Description
Provide funds for staff and overhead to administer the CDBG grant. The 
City will also provide a $25,000 grant to an agency for provision of Fair 
Housing services to come from admin.
Target Date
6/30/2022
Estimate the number 
and type of families 
that will benefit from 
the proposed 
activities
The fair housing grant will serve approximately 215 households 
Location Description
Project will take place in City of San Mateo. 
Planned Activities
Administrative costs for management of the CDBG program. In addition, 
the City will provide funds for the provision of fair housing activities. 
Project Name
Street and Sidewalk Reconstruction
Target Area
CDBG Priority Neighborhood
Goals Supported
Street and Sidewalk Improvements
4
Needs Addressed
Community Development
140 of 214

--- page 141 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
41
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Funding
CDBG: $620,000
Description
Funding to reconstruct failing streets and sidewalks as well as other 
pedestrian safety improvements.
Target Date
6/30/2022
Estimate the number 
and type of families 
that will benefit from 
the proposed 
activities
Project will be completed in the CDBG Priority Neighborhood, which has 
approximately 20,000 residents
Location Description
Project will be completed in the CDBG Priority Neighborhood. 
Planned Activities
Funds will be used for street safety improvements focusing on bike lane 
improvements within the CDBG Priority Neighborhood.
Project Name
Affordable Housing
Target Area
 
Goals Supported
Affordable Housing
Needs Addressed
Affordable Housing
Funding
Affordable Housing: $642,000
City sources: $6,850,000
Description
Construction of 225 affordable housing units and public parking garage 
on two sites in downtown San Mateo. Housing funds will not be used for 
public parking.
Target Date
12/23/2022
Estimate the number 
and type of families 
that will benefit from 
the proposed 
activities
225 families
Location Description
480 E. 4th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94401 and 400 E. 5th Avenue, San 
Mateo, CA 94401
5
Planned Activities
Construction of new housing
141 of 214

--- page 142 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
42
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
AP-50 Geographic Distribution - 91.420, 91.220(f)
Description of the geographic areas of the entitlement (including areas of low-income and 
minority concentration) where assistance will be directed 
The City of San Mateo provides a number of programs that assist low-income individuals and 
households based and therefore may be located anywhere within the city limits of San Mateo.  In 
addition, the City has identified a CDBG Priority Neighborhood by utilizing the low-income definitions 
provided by HUD.  This area includes census tracts or block groups with at least 51% of the persons 
considered low-income as reported in the Census and includes North Central, North Shoreview and 
South Norfolk neighborhoods.
Geographic Distribution
Target Area
Percentage of Funds
CDBG Priority Neighborhood
51
Table 8 - Geographic Distribution 
Rationale for the priorities for allocating investments geographically 
The CDBG Priority Neighborhood has a number of contributing factors to its designation, especially as 
compared to other neighborhoods in San Mateo:

Lowest median income and high percentage of families below the poverty level

Deteriorating conditions, including high degree of dumping and graffiti

High percentage of overcrowding, including streets/traffic and housing

Older, deteriorating housing stock
Discussion
142 of 214

--- page 143 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
143 of 214

--- page 144 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
AP-75 Barriers to affordable housing -91.420, 91.220(j)
Introduction
The City is committed to using available tools to increase the availability of affordable housing. Current programs include an inclusionary zoning 
ordinance, commercial linkage fee, and the City also works with developers of 100% affordable projects using local funding and land. 
Actions it planned to remove or ameliorate the negative effects of public policies that serve as barriers to affordable housing such 
as land use controls, tax policies affecting land, zoning ordinances, building codes, fees and charges, growth limitations, and 
policies affecting the return on residential investment
Streamlining the approval process for residential developments is a high priority for the City of San Mateo.  A number of efforts are planned this 
program year.

Consistent with 2016 state housing legislation, the City Council adopted a new Accessory Dwelling Unit ordinance in March 2017, which 
allows for one Accessory Dwelling Unit (aka secondary units) as of right within residential zoning districts. The ordinance includes ADU 
size limitation, parking exemptions and requirements, location requirements, and other standards. Although the number of applications 
has increased with these changes, the City continues to look into streamlining the process and will propose additional adjustments to 
the ordinance in Fall 2020 .

The City formed an in-house team to look at streamlining the development review process and will also hire a consultant during this 
program year to assist in redesigned the current processes.

During this program year, the City will finalize a study to evaluate all development fees to measure the impacts on residential 
construction.
Discussion
144 of 214

--- page 145 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
AP-85 Other Actions - 91.420, 91.220(k)
Introduction
Actions planned to address obstacles to meeting underserved needs
The recent booming economy has placed further stress on low wage earning families and the cost of 
housing. The City will use its limited resources to address these needs in accordance with the priorities 
identified by the Community Resources Commission.  Federal funding sources are unpredictable, so the 
City has made financial adjustments and will focus on opportunities to strengthen and/or support the 
businesses of San Mateo that are the providers of jobs, income and security to its residents.  The City 
continues to look for new ways to streamline procedures and collaborate with other community groups 
and has especially focused on volunteerism.  With the CDBG Public Services grants, the City will continue 
to partner with its nonprofit business and service providers to provide direct support and basic needs 
services (food, shelter, clothing, etc.) for residents most in need. The CRC also has prioritized job 
training/small business support, as well as capital improvements in the CDBG Priority Areas.
Through the Community Resources Commission, the remarks received at the community needs 
workshops and hearings were reviewed and summarized in the Citizen Participation section of this 
document. Each year the Community Funding grants are selected as a tool to address the underserved 
needs of the community. The primary obstacle in addressing most community needs is available 
funding.  The Commission has tried to allocate its limited funds in a manner that provides unduplicated 
services and tries to stretch the funding to be cost effective. 
Actions planned to foster and maintain affordable housing
The City works collaboratively with non profit organizations and other jurisdictions for the preservation 
and development of affordable housing.  The County of San Mateo and the cities and towns within itself 
formed a workgroup called 21 Elements to meet quarterly to share best practices on housing policies 
and programs for the adoption of their respective Housing Elements and General Plans.  The group also 
shares in costs of studies, such as the countywide Nexus Study in order to establish Affordable Housing 
and Commercial Linkage Fees (CLF). The City of San Mateo adopted its CLF in 2016 through this group, 
charging new commercial developments to mitigate the impact on housing demand created by 
increasing jobs in the community.
The City has local funding sources that can support the preservation and development of affordable 
housing besides HUD. "Boomerang" funds, property taxes that were set aside for housing in the former 
Redevelopment Areas (RDA) have been pledged for housing. The City also collects loan repayments from 
loans made by the former RDA to assist acquisition, rehab or new construction of affordable housing. 
The City has funds that have been repaid over time from loans made through the State Dept. of Housing 
145 of 214

--- page 146 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
and Community Development's CalHome program. These funds will be made available for a Housing 
Rehabilitation Loan Program available to low-income homeowners in the City to allow them to preserve 
their existing affordability and stay safely in their homes
The City's inclusionary Below Market Rate Program (BMR) requires new market rate housing to set-aside 
15% of the units to be affordable. The program provides both rental and ownership units. Staff manages 
the regulatory agreements of these units and conducts regular monitoring to ensure the affordability is 
maintained.
The City continues to administer its First Time Homebuyer program. The affordability of these units is 
ensured through the resale restrictions and the City’s first right to purchase so the units are sold to new 
eligible buyers. The City budgets funds for additional subsidy, if needed, to ensure the affordability of 
assisted units.
The City also entered into a development agreement for two former RDA sites downtown that will 
include family rental units for households up to 80% AMI and a public parking garage.  Referred to as the 
Kiku Crossing, the project is located at 480 E. Fourth Avenue with access to retail, restaurants and a 
Caltrain station 3 blocks away. The developer and the City decided to utilize the benefits of extra density 
provided by AB1763 which became law in Jan 2020 to revise the project from 164 to 225 units. The 
project received final planning approvals in Aug 2020, and executed the Development, Disposition and 
Loan Agreement. The City has committed $7.5 million in subsidy. Construction is expected to begin at 
the end of 2021
The City updated its ADU program in 2018 and is working with 21 Elements to encourage the production 
of small units incorporated into single family properties. The City will adopt further program revisions in 
2021-22.
Actions planned to reduce lead-based paint hazards
The City will continue to use its adopted procedures and guidelines to evaluate and reduce lead-based 
paint hazards as required for each eligible project performed using CDBG and HOME funding. This will 
apply to assisted acquisition, rehabilitation, the Minor Home Repair and Paint programs, and/or 
rehabilitation projects including Rebuilding Together Peninsula.
Actions planned to reduce the number of poverty-level families
The actions to work toward eliminating poverty in San Mateo include:

Strengthen the economic base in order to create and retain job opportunities in San Mateo:

Provide affordable housing: Complete development of 225 units of affordable housing at the 
146 of 214

--- page 147 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Kiku Crossing project site.

Provide social services to help people reach self-sufficiency through public services grants.
Actions planned to develop institutional structure 
Gaps previously identified in institutional structure included reduction in staffing due to severe budget 
reductions, limiting institutional capacity. This will continue to be a reality for San Mateo and other 
jurisdictions and nonprofit agencies as well.  This requires more careful coordination in services and as 
well as administration of programs.  The Countywide CDBG Cohort group is an example of how staff 
from several cities coordinates public service agreements and monitoring in order to streamline the 
process. During the upcoming year the group will continue to share best practices and identify program 
areas that can be streamlined.
Actions planned to enhance coordination between public and private housing and social 
service agencies
The City will continue to collaborate with public and private housing developers as it manages its 
ongoing BMR program and manages new subsidized housing projects.  In City sponsored affordable 
housing projects, it is expected that services are provided to the occupants such as transportation 
subsidy and information, after school programs, social activities, information and referral to other 
services including health, credit and food and clothing.  The community is fortunate that these agencies 
are very well connected already, and the City assists when it can to strengthen the networks.
Discussion
Housing Preferences and Distribution 
In light of the huge response, usually resulting in hundreds of applications for affordable housing 
projects, San Mateo adopted its Marketing Policies for Affordable Housing to establish a fair and 
effective process to lease rental units, and sell ownership units to new eligible buyers. The policy 
establishes household size priorities for bedroom sizes and a local preference for people who either live 
or work in San Mateo.  The locality preference is a result of the City’s desire to prioritize local funds for 
local residents and to reduce commutes and resulting traffic congestion for those who work in the 
City.  The City has analyzed the racial/ethnic make up of San Mateo using census data and compared it 
to the local region, defined as the County of San Mateo, and found no material differences in 
racial/ethnic percentages, therefore determined that this policy does not have a disparate impact on 
any minority group. This preference does not apply if a particular funding source prohibits a local 
preference.
The City has provided subsidies for a variety of housing types including rental, ownership, transitional 
and supportive housing units in a variety of locations and for a range of income levels, in an effort to 
serve as many households as possible. This is extremely challenging in a city of only nine square miles in 
147 of 214

--- page 148 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
size with one of the highest land and housing costs in the nation.  Despite these challenges, only 26% of 
the subsidized housing in San Mateo is located in the CDBG Priority Neighborhood, which consists of the 
lowest income households and highest percentage of minorities.  This planning plus the local preference 
provides residents opportunities to live in a variety of neighborhoods citywide.  This is further assisted 
by the fact that all private developments, regardless of location, provide inclusionary units which results 
in advancing a variety of housing choices for community members.
148 of 214

--- page 149 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Program Specific Requirements
AP-90 Program Specific Requirements - 91.420, 91.220(l)(1,2,4)
Introduction
Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG) 
Reference 24 CFR 91.220(l)(1) 
Projects planned with all CDBG funds expected to be available during the year are identified in the 
Projects Table. The following identifies program income that is available for use that is included in 
projects to be carried out. 
1. The total amount of program income that will have been received before the start of the next 
program year and that has not yet been reprogrammed
0
2. The amount of proceeds from section 108 loan guarantees that will be used during the year to 
address the priority needs and specific objectives identified in the grantee's strategic plan.
0
3. The amount of surplus funds from urban renewal settlements
0
4. The amount of any grant funds returned to the line of credit for which the planned use has not 
been included in a prior statement or plan
0
5. The amount of income from float-funded activities
0
Total Program Income:
0
Other CDBG Requirements 
1. The amount of urgent need activities
0
2. The estimated percentage of CDBG funds that will be used for activities that 
benefit persons of low and moderate income. Overall Benefit - A consecutive 
period of one, two or three years may be used to determine that a minimum 
overall benefit of 70% of CDBG funds is used to benefit persons of low and 
moderate income. Specify the years covered that include this Annual Action Plan.
100.00%
149 of 214

--- page 150 ---
Annual Action Plan
2021
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 06/30/2018)
Discussion
The City utilizes 100% of its CDBG funds for eligible activities that assist low- and moderate-income 
households through direct services as well as improvements to the CDBG Priority Neighborhoods.
The CDBG grant funds plus annual program income from loan repayments are consistently allocated and 
spent in a timely manner to maximize assistance to the community. However, it is expected that there 
will be delays in delivering services, completing projects, and drawing down funds due to the COVID-19 
pandemic.
The three-year period for calculating CDBG benefit is 2021, 2022, and 2023. 
150 of 214

--- page 151 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4560
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
May 3, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Classification Updates – Community Development Department
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the revisions to the job specifications for the classifications of Senior Building Inspector, 
Building Inspector I-II, Principal Planner and Building Official.
BACKGROUND:
Per San Mateo Municipal Code Section 2.57.030(d), classification updates become effective upon approval by the City 
Council.
The Department recommends updating the job specifications for the classifications of Senior Building Inspector and 
Building Inspector I-II to more accurately reflect the duties performed and supervision received by, and the physical 
abilities required of, the employees in these positions. The updates to the job specification for the classification of 
Principal Planner reflect the supervision received and exercised by the employees in this position. The proposed job 
specification for the classification of Building Official updates the physical abilities requirements, replaces obsolete 
language and requires Building Official certification for the position based on the California Health and Safety Code section 
18949.28.
 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with the revisions to the job specifications for the classifications Senior Building 
Inspector, Building Inspector I-II, Principal Planner and Building Official.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
These classification updates are not subject to CEQA because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
             Exhibit A – Job Specifications
Att 2 – Job Specifications with tracked changes
STAFF CONTACT
Lourdes Coles, Senior Human Resources Analyst
151 of 214

--- page 152 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
lcoles@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7264
152 of 214

--- page 153 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ___ (2021)
CLASSIFICATION UPDATES IN COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
WHEREAS, pursuant to the San Mateo Municipal Code Section 2.57.030(d), approval of revisions to 
job specifications for existing classifications must be approved by City Council Resolution; and
WHEREAS, the proposed changes are as detailed below:
1.
Revise the job specifications for the classifications of Senior Building Inspector, Building 
Inspector I-II, Principal Planner and Building Official.
WHEREAS, the employee associations representing the impacted classifications have reviewed the 
proposed changes and have not brought forth any objections or concerns; 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, RESOLVES that 
the following classification updates are approved:
1.
The revisions to the job specifications for the classifications of Senior Building Inspector, 
Building Inspector I-II, Principal Planner and Building Official attached as Exhibit A.
153 of 214

--- page 154 ---
EXHIBIT A
SENIOR BUILDING INSPECTOR
DEFINITION
Under direction, acts as a technical lead, and performs highly skilled combination and 
specialty inspection work involving the interpretation and enforcement of codes and 
regulations for building and related health and safety areas; performs periodic review of less 
complex plans; performs related work as assigned.
SUPERVISION RECEIVED & EXERCISED
Receives general direction from the Inspection Supervisor or higher level department 
personnel.
May exercise technical and functional supervision over professional and support staff.
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS
This is the advanced journey level in the Building Inspection series. Positions at this level 
are distinguished from other classes within the series by the level of responsibility assumed 
and the complexity of duties assigned. Assignments also involve performing combination 
inspections including the more complex or sensitive inspections and performing periodic 
review of less complex plans.  The incumbent is expected to have a high degree of 
technical expertise and to exercise considerable independence and discretion on 
assignments.
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES - Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following:
Reviews construction documents for residential, commercial and industrial construction; 
ensures compliance with applicable codes and regulations; approves final inspection.
Responds to emergencies when called upon by emergency dispatchers or other departments, 
to assist as technical expert in evaluation of safety. 
Assists in developing and administering the budget, goals, objectives and work programs for 
building inspection.
Reviews and revises policies and procedures; monitors code changes and updates City 
practices as required.
Conducts combination inspections of complex or sensitive construction or remodeling work 
154 of 214

--- page 155 ---
under permit to enforce building, health and safety and City codes to ensure safe application 
and installation practices; makes final inspection to clear permits.
Advises property owners, contractors and others on matters relevant to construction and repair 
methods and materials; interprets codes and regulations and explains inspection programs; 
investigates and resolves complaints and problems.
Makes inspections of existing buildings for hazardous conditions, structural failures or the need 
for maintenance or repair.
Prepares warning letters to negligent owners or contractors, and carries negligent cases through 
prosecution channels in situations of noncompliance.
Performs periodic review of less complex plans.
May provide training to and review the work of less experienced plan check staff. 
Provides public assistance and information over the counter.
Maintains records and files of permits and inspections.
Maintains current knowledge of new construction methods, materials and techniques.
Uses standard office equipment, including a computer, in the course of the work; drives a City 
or personal vehicle to on-site inspections or to attend meetings.
Assists with the coordinating the logistics of times, materials, staff and equipment.
Review work to ensure accuracy and completeness.
Conduct review of complex technical documents for conformance with accuracy, industry 
standards, codes, ordinances, and regulations.
Review field test, sampling, and analysis reports to ensure compliance.
Prepare routine documents, such as work orders, correspondence, memos, emails, and 
distribute them.
Coordinate activities or work with other City departments, public, outside agencies and/or 
groups.
Assists in training, or lead staff members and stakeholders.
Ensure duties are conducted in a safe, efficient manner, including securing the work 
environment.
Interpret city codes, policies, and ordinances.
Perform outreach and draft outreach materials.
155 of 214

--- page 156 ---
Assist in the selection of equipment or supplies.
Respond to emergencies.
Perform other duties as assigned.
QUALIFICATIONS
Knowledge of:
Principles and practices of technical and functional supervision, including work 
planning and instruction.
Principles and methods used in building construction craft areas, including plumbing, 
electrical, mechanical, building construction, foundations, remodeling, and zoning.
Applicable City, state and federal laws, ordinances and codes. 
Appropriate safety and fire prevention methods in construction.
Building construction practices, materials and plans and the methods involved 
in construction and building inspection.
Computer applications related to the work.
Ability to:
Provide technical and functional supervision to assigned staff; effectively train less 
experienced staff.
Perform the most complex duties related to building inspection.
Provide expert technical building inspection assistance.
Review plans and specifications for building related construction and determine 
practicability of plans, compliance with regulations and validity of permits.
Perform thorough and accurate inspections, alteration or repair of buildings, 
construction and enforce a wide range of building, zoning and related codes and 
regulations.
Interpret, apply and explain complex codes, regulations and procedures.
Maintain accurate records and prepare clear and concise reports and documentation. 
Exercise sound independent judgment within established guidelines.
Deal courteously and communicate effectively with a variety of individuals in the 
course of work, including resolving job-related problems with property owners and 
156 of 214

--- page 157 ---
contractors, architects, engineers, realtors and representatives of lending institutions 
and utility companies.
Work cooperatively with all contacted in course of work.
Experience and Training Guidelines:
Any combination of training and experience that would likely provide the required knowledge 
and abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be:
Equivalent to graduation from high school and three years of journey level building 
inspection experience at a level equivalent to the City's class of Building Inspector II. 
Some prior lead experience is highly desirable.
Licenses and Certificates:
Possession of a valid California driver's license. Possession of or ability to obtain a Building 
Inspector certification issued by the International Code Council or other equivalent state, 
national or international association within 12 months of appointment.
ADA Special Requirement:
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment:
Ability to sit, stand, walk, kneel, crouch, squat, stoop, reach, crawl, twist, climb, and lift up to 
50 pounds occasionally and up to 75 pounds rarely; exposure to extreme noise, outdoors, 
confining work space, electrical hazards, vibration, chemicals, dust, toxic waste, mechanical 
hazards, and explosive materials.
ADOPTED CC:
6-20-94
REVISED CC:
   5-20-02, 6-21-04, 6-3-19, 5-3-21
FORMER TITLES:
BARGAINING UNIT:
GENERAL UNIT
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL:
COMPLIANCE AND INSPECTION
FLSA:
NON-EXEMPT
DOT:
NO
PRE APPT MEDICAL:
YES
SAFETY SENSITIVE:
YES
FORM 700:
YES
JOB CODES:
5032
ABOLISHED:
157 of 214

--- page 158 ---
BUILDING INSPECTOR I-II
DEFINITION
To inspect routine and complex structure and building systems at various stages of construction, 
alteration and repair; to investigate and secure compliance with housing, zoning, environmental 
and general land use standards; to assist in the review of building plans and specifications; and to 
do related work as required.
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS
Building Inspector I - This is the entry level in the Building Inspector series.  This class is 
distinguished from the Building Inspector II by the performance of the more routine and 
standardized tasks and duties assigned to positions within the series.  Assignments are performed 
within the procedural framework established by higher level employees.  Since this class is 
typically used as a training class, employees may have only limited or no directly related work 
experience.
Building Inspector II - This is the journey level class within the series.  Employees within this 
class are distinguished from Building Inspector I by the performance of the full range of duties as 
assigned including moderately difficult combination inspections of a variety of residential, 
commercial and industrial buildings; and the most complex inspections of commercial and 
industrial buildings within one inspection discipline such as building, electrical, or plumbing and 
mechanical.  Employees at this level receive only occasional instruction or assistance as new or 
unusual situations arise and are fully aware of the operating procedures and policies of the work 
unit.  Positions in this class are flexibly staffed and are normally filled by advancement from the 
lower class of Building Inspector I, or, when filled from the outside, require prior building 
inspection work experience.
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED
Building Inspector I
Receives immediate supervision from the Inspection Supervisor or higher level department 
personnel.
Building Inspector II
Receives general supervision from the Inspection Supervisor.
May exercise technical and functional supervision over lower level staff.
158 of 214

--- page 159 ---
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES - Depending upon assignment, duties may include, but are not limited 
to, the following:
Make field inspections of industrial, commercial, and residential buildings during various stages 
of construction and remodeling; ensure proper and safe installations of routine and complex 
building systems; ensure building progress conforms to California Building Code, Plumbing and 
Electrical Codes, City codes and ordinances and pertinent provisions of Federal, State and County 
health and environmental ordinances.
Responds to emergencies when called upon by supervisor, or emergency dispatchers, to assist as 
technical expert in evaluation of safety. 
Issue permits for work to be performed.
Assist in the checking of building plans.
Participate in Fire Department and County Health Department inspections as required in one or 
more inspection disciplines such as electrical, plumbing, or mechanical.
Coordinate inspection activities with other City departments to ensure compliance with conditions 
attached to projects by the Development Review Board, the Planning Commission or the City 
Council.
Make field review of plans and specifications.
Conduct inspections with the Code Enforcement office to verify complaints and/or conditions 
violating building and zoning codes; conduct follow up- inspections to check and verify that 
conditions are completed.
Conduct inspections, prepare reports and serve as needed to assist the City Attorney in legal actions 
initiated by the Building Division.
Respond to and resolve citizen inquiries and complaints regarding the City's building inspection 
function.
Retrieve building, assessor's parcels, files and other computerized records from computer database 
as required.
Perform other duties to ensure the smooth operation of the office including answering the phones, 
scheduling inspections, and compiling and filing building plans and other related construction 
documents.
Confer with architects, contractors, builders and the general public in the field and office; explain 
and interpret requirements and restrictions; review reports from special inspection agencies, 
engineers, and architects relating to specific projects.
Maintain detailed records and prepare reports.
Plan, organize, control, integrate and evaluate the operations in the subject area under his/her 
159 of 214

--- page 160 ---
purview. Develop and implement goals and objectives, develop and implement policies.
Monitor compliance, including after violations.
Review work to ensure accuracy and completeness.
Conduct review of complex technical documents for conformance with accuracy, industry 
standards, codes, ordinances, and regulations.
Prepare reports, warning letters, citations, calculations, analysis, grants, diagrams, or technical 
materials for City, City Committees, public vendor, state and federal filings, and advisory reports.
Participate in the development of policies and procedures and make recommendations on programs 
and projects.
Keep informed of industry trends and developments.
Prepare routine documents, such as work orders, correspondence, memos; emails and distributes 
them.
Train or lead staff members or stakeholders.
Ensure duties are conducted in a safe, efficient manner, including securing the work environment.
Interpret city codes, policies, and ordinances.
Perform outreach and draft outreach materials.
Process transactions and issue permits.
Utilize computers and specialized equipment.
Maintain equipment.
Perform other duties as assigned.
QUALIFICATIONS
Building Inspector I
Knowledge of:
Methods of building construction.
Accepted Safety standards.
Research methods and sources of information related to building code enforcement.
Building related codes and ordinances enforceable by the City, including the California 
Building Codes, zoning ordinances, and other environmental codes and energy regulations.
160 of 214

--- page 161 ---
Ability to:
Learn to perform journey-level inspections in a variety of specialty trade areas and to 
perform competent and efficient work as a combination Building Inspector.
Learn to enforce a variety of zoning, general land use and related City codes.
Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing.
Read and interpret building plans, specifications, and building codes.
Advise on standard construction methods and requirements.
Make arithmetical computations rapidly and accurately.
Establish and maintain cooperative working relations with those contacted in the course of  
work.
Enforce necessary regulations with firmness and tact.
Experience and Training Guidelines
Any combination of experience and training that would likely provide the required knowledge 
and abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be:
Experience:
Three years of experience in the building construction field as a journey level plumber, 
electrician, carpenter or related craftsperson.
Training:
Equivalent to completion of the twelfth grade.
License or Certificate
Possession of an appropriate, valid California driver's license. 
Possession of, or ability to obtain, within one year, certification as a Building Inspector issued by 
the ICC (International Code Council) or other equivalent state, national, or international 
association.
Building Inspector II
In addition to the qualifications for Building Inspector I:
Knowledge of:
Principles and techniques of building inspection work.
161 of 214

--- page 162 ---
Ability to:
Apply technical knowledge and follow proper inspection techniques to examine 
workmanship and materials, and detect deviations from plans, regulations, and standard 
construction practices.
Apply City Codes and policies regarding zoning, environmental matters and other 
regulations to field situations.
Work independently without supervision.
Experience and Training Guidelines
Any combination of experience and training that would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be:
Experience:
Two years of responsible experience performing duties comparable to those of a Building
Inspector I for the City of San Mateo.
License or Certificate
Possession of certification as a Building Inspector issued by the ICC (International Code 
Council) or other equivalent state, national, or international association.  Possession of an 
appropriate, valid California drivers' license.
ADA Special Requirement:
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment:
Ability to sit, stand, walk, kneel, crouch, squat, stoop, reach, crawl, twist, climb, and lift up to 50  
pounds occasionally and up to 75 pounds rarely; exposure to extreme noise, outdoors, confining 
work space, electrical hazards, vibration, chemicals, dust, toxic waste, mechanical hazards, and 
explosive materials.
ADOPTED CC: 
4-12-81
REVISED CC: 
9-07-88, 5-20-02, 6-21-04, 5-3-21
FORMER TITLES: 
BARGAINING UNIT:
GENERAL UNIT
FLSA:
NON-EXEMPT
DOT:
NO
PRE APPT MEDICAL:
YES
SAFETY SENSITIVE:
YES
FORM 700:
NO
JOB CODES:
BUILDING INSPECTOR I – 5031, BUILDING INSPECTOR II – 5030, 
BUILDING INSPECTOR II (K RATE) – 5030K
ABOLISHED:
162 of 214

--- page 163 ---
PRINCIPAL PLANNER
DEFINITION
To plan, organize, supervise, and participate in the work of professional, technical and clerical 
planning personnel assigned to either the current or advance planning functions of the Planning 
Division; to act as Zoning Administrator when assigned; to act as Planning Manager in his/her 
absence; and to do related work as required.
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED
Receives direction from the Planning Manager or higher level department personnel in the 
Community Development Department.
May exercise direct supervision over professional, technical and clerical planning personnel.
EXAMPLES OF IMPORTANT AND ESSENTIAL DUTIES - Duties may include, but are 
not limited to, the following:
Supervise and coordinate either the Planning Division’s current or advance planning programs; 
act as Zoning Administrator when assigned; supervise special planning, zoning, and 
environmental studies; and prepare reports and findings.
Direct, coordinate, review, and participate in the work of professional, technical and clerical 
staff in data collection, analysis, plan and policy formulation, and implementation of a wide 
variety of planning, zoning, and environmental review activities.
Supervise, train, and evaluate assigned staff. This includes developing individual planner work 
programs, monitoring progress and preparing performance evaluations.
Implement goals, objectives, policies and priorities; assist in their development; and initiate 
recommendations for changes in codes, plans and policies.
Work with Citizen Advisory Committee, Technical Advisory Committee, Ad-Hoc Committee, 
Homeowners and Business Associations, as may be applicable for specific projects.
Act as liaison and present reports to the Planning Commission, Development Review Board, 
City Council, and various citizen committees as assigned.
Coordinate planning activities with other Department divisions City departments, Development 
Review Board and with applicable public agencies.
163 of 214

--- page 164 ---
Confer with developers regarding development applications and processes; complete 
processing of the most difficult and complex planning applications; and advise staff on 
processing of applications.
Perform the most complex and sensitive planning duties; and serve as staff resource in 
technical areas.
Make zoning interpretations as required. 
Assist in the preparation and administration of the annual budget and plan division work 
program.
Utilize computer applications relating to planning.
QUALIFICATIONS
Knowledge of:
Principles and practices of urban planning
Computer systems and applications.
Research methods.
Federal, State, and local laws relating to planning.
Principles of administration and of personnel and budget management.
Ability to:
Effectively direct the work of assigned staff.
Understand and interpret codes, plans, and policies.
Process the most complex and sensitive planning applications.
Prepare and analyze planning studies and clearly communicate findings of these studies.
Work independently and exercise good judgment.
Communicate effectively in writing and verbally.
Maintain effective working relationships with those contacted in the course of work.
Work extended or irregular hours.
164 of 214

--- page 165 ---
Experience and Training Guidelines
Any combination of experience and training that would likely provide the required knowledge 
and abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be:
Experience:
Six years of professional experience in the field of urban planning, including some 
supervisory experience.
Training:
Equivalent to a Bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with major 
coursework in planning or a related field.
Licenses:
Possession of the appropriate, valid California Driver’s License may be required.
ADA SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment:
Ability to work in a standard office environment with some exposure to the outdoors.
ADOPTED CC: 
8-05-02
REVISED CC: 
5-3-21
FORMER TITLES: 
BARGAINING UNIT:
MANAGEMENT UNIT
FLSA:
EXEMPT
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL:
MANAGEMENT
DOT:
NO
PRE APPT MEDICAL:
NO
SAFETY SENSITIVE:
NO
FORM 700:
YES
JOB CODES:
2132
ABOLISHED: 
165 of 214

--- page 166 ---
BUILDING OFFICIAL
DEFINITION
To organize, direct, plan, supervise, and coordinate the work of the Building Division; to ensure 
compliance with laws and regulations applicable to building construction and maintenance; and 
to do related work as required.
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED
Receives general direction from the Community Development Director.
Exercises direct supervision over professional, technical staff.
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES - Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following:
Direct and participate in the development and implementation of goals, objectives, policies, and 
priorities; implement City and department goals, objectives, policies and priorities.
Plan, organize, control, and evaluate the functions and activities of the Building Division, including 
building and housing inspections, plan checking, and service to the public at counter and phones.
Respond to complaints issued by Attorney General's office by reviewing and ensuring compliance 
to laws and regulations within 90 days.
Establish, improve, supervise and coordinate the public service, plan checking, and building 
inspection procedures of the City. 
Ensure that close coordination is maintained between various City departments and divisions for 
the plan check, inspection, and maintenance functions.
Represent the Building Division at City Council, Planning Commission, other Boards and 
Commissions, and at professional and public meetings as required.
Perform the most difficult field inspections and plan checks and oversee inspections, plan checks 
and decisions made by subordinates.
Interpret and enforce California Building codes, local ordinances, State and local amendments to 
California Building codes and all other laws relating to building and new construction.
Recommend and draft code changes, relating to building and new construction; maintain City 
166 of 214

--- page 167 ---
ordinances in compliance with latest model codes and State regulations.
Maintain a high level of public relations with the development community and City residents.
Utilize computers for word processing, spreadsheets, permit tracking and issuance, and other 
programs.
Prepare and administer the division budget, maintaining appropriate budgetary controls.
Supervise, train, develop and evaluate assigned personnel.
QUALIFICATIONS
Knowledge of:
Principles and practices of organization, administration, personnel and budget management.
Principles and practices of the California Building, Plumbing, Mechanical, and Electrical 
Codes, other uniform codes, State Title 24, laws relating to disabled access, and pertinent 
State and City codes and ordinances and regulations.
Principles of structural design, plan checking, building inspection, architectural plan review, 
energy standards, and disabled access or Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
Computer applications in building.
Relationship of Building Division to other City divisions and departments.
Ability to:
Organize, direct, and coordinate the activities of a division in a manner conducive to full 
performance and high morale.
Analyze, interpret and check complex plans, specifications, calculations, laws, and 
regulations.
Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing.
Plan, organize, direct, establish, and maintain cooperative relations with City staff, and 
public and private organizations.
Supervise, train, and evaluate assigned personnel.
Experience and Training Guidelines
Any combination of experience and training that would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be:
Experience:
167 of 214

--- page 168 ---
Four years of increasingly responsible experience of a supervisory and administrative nature 
in the design, construction, and inspection of public, commercial, industrial, or residential 
buildings.
Training:
Equivalent to a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university with major course 
work in structural, mechanical, or civil engineering, architecture, or a related field.
License or Certificate
Possession of a Building Official Certificate issued by the International Code Council or other 
equivalent state, national, or international association is required within 12 months of 
appointment.
Certificate of registration as an Architect or Engineer in the State of California is desirable.
ADA Special Requirements:
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment:
Ability to work in a standard office environment with frequent ability to sit, stand, walk, kneel, 
crouch, squat, stoop, reach, crawl, twist and climb; occasional exposure to cold, heat, extreme 
noise, outdoors, confining work space, electrical hazards, vibration, chemicals, dust, mechanical 
hazards, explosive materials, and ability to drive.
ADOPTED CC: 
4-12-81
REVISED CC: 
12-16-85, 6-07-93, 5-20-02, 6-21-04, 5-3-21
FORMER TITLES: 
BARGAINING UNIT:
MANAGEMENT UNIT
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL:
MANAGEMENT
FLSA:
EXEMPT
DOT:
NO
PRE APPT MEDICAL:
YES
SAFETY SENSITIVE:
YES
FORM 700:
YES
JOB CODES:
2090
ABOLISHED: 
168 of 214

--- page 169 ---
SENIOR BUILDING INSPECTOR 
 
 
 
 
DEFINITION 
 
Under direction, acts as a technical lead, and performs highly skilled combination and 
specialty inspection work involving the interpretation and enforcement of codes and 
regulations for building and related health and safety areas; performs periodic review of less 
complex plans; performs related work as assigned. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED & EXERCISED 
 
Receives general direction from the Inspection Supervisor Building Official or higher level 
department personnel. 
 
May exercise technical and functional supervision over professional and support staff. 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
 
This is the advanced journey level in the Building Inspection series. Positions at this level 
are distinguished from other classes within the series by the level of responsibility assumed 
and the complexity of duties assigned. Assignments also involve performing combination 
inspections including the more complex or sensitive inspections and performing periodic 
review of less complex plans.  The incumbent is expected to have a high degree of 
technical expertise and to exercise considerable independence and discretion on 
assignments. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES - Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 
 
Reviews construction documents for residential, commercial and industrial construction; 
ensures compliance with applicable codes and regulations; approves final inspection. 
 
Responds to emergencies when called upon by emergency dispatchers or other departments, 
to assist as technical expert in evaluation of safety.  
 
Assists in developing and administering the budget, goals, objectives and work programs for 
building inspection. 
 
Reviews and revises policies and procedures; monitors code changes and updates City 
practices as required. 
 
Conducts combination inspections of complex or sensitive construction or remodeling work 
169 of 214

--- page 170 ---
under permit to enforce building, health and safety and City codes to ensure safe application 
and installation practices; makes final inspection to clear permits. 
 
Advises property owners, contractors and others on matters relevant to construction and repair 
methods and materials; interprets codes and regulations and explains inspection programs; 
investigates and resolves complaints and problems. 
 
Makes inspections of existing buildings for hazardous conditions, structural failures or the need 
for maintenance or repair. 
 
Prepares warning letters to negligent owners or contractors, and carries negligent cases through 
prosecution channels in situations of noncompliance. 
 
Performs periodic review of less complex plans. 
 
May provide training to and review the work of less experienced plan check staff.  
Provides public assistance and information over the counter. 
Maintains records and files of permits and inspections. 
 
Maintains current knowledge of new construction methods, materials and techniques. 
 
Uses standard office equipment, including a computer, in the course of the work; drives a City 
or personal vehicle to on-site inspections or to attend meetings. 
 
Assists with the coordinating the logistics of times, materials, staff and equipment. 
 
Review work to ensure accuracy and completeness. 
 
Conduct review of complex technical documents for conformance with accuracy, industry 
standards, codes, ordinances, and regulations. 
 
Review field test, sampling, and analysis reports to ensure compliance. 
 
Prepare routine documents, such as work orders, correspondence, memos, emails, and 
distribute them. 
 
Coordinate activities or work with other City departments, public, outside agencies and/or 
groups. 
 
Assists in training, or lead staff members and stakeholders. 
 
Ensure duties are conducted in a safe, efficient manner, including securing the work 
environment. 
 
Interpret city codes, policies, and ordinances. 
 
Perform outreach and draft outreach materials. 
170 of 214

--- page 171 ---
Assist in the selection of equipment or supplies. 
Respond to emergencies. 
 
Perform other duties as assigned. 
 
QUALIFICATIONS 
 
Knowledge of: 
 
Principles and practices of technical and functional supervision, including work 
planning and instruction. 
 
Principles and methods used in building construction craft areas, including plumbing, 
electrical, mechanical, building construction, foundations, remodeling, and zoning. 
 
Applicable City, state and federal laws, ordinances and codes. 
Appropriate safety and fire prevention methods in construction. 
Building construction practices, materials and plans and the methods involved 
in construction and building inspection. 
 
Computer applications related to the work. 
 
 
Ability to: 
 
Provide technical and functional supervision to assigned staff; effectively train less 
experienced staff. 
 
Perform the most complex duties related to building inspection. 
 
Provide expert technical building inspection assistance. 
 
Review plans and specifications for building related construction and determine 
practicability of plans, compliance with regulations and validity of permits. 
 
Perform thorough and accurate inspections, alteration or repair of buildings, 
construction and enforce a wide range of building, zoning and related codes and 
regulations. 
 
Interpret, apply and explain complex codes, regulations and procedures. 
 
Maintain accurate records and prepare clear and concise reports and documentation. 
Exercise sound independent judgment within established guidelines. 
Deal courteously and communicate effectively with a variety of individuals in the 
course of work, including resolving job-related problems with property owners and 
171 of 214

--- page 172 ---
contractors, architects, engineers, realtors and representatives of lending institutions 
and utility companies. 
 
Work cooperatively with all contacted in course of work. 
 
Experience and Training Guidelines: 
 
Any combination of training and experience that would likely provide the required knowledge 
and abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be: 
 
Equivalent to graduation from high school and three years of journey level building 
inspection experience at a level equivalent to the City's class of Building Inspector II. 
Some prior lead experience is highly desirable. 
 
Licenses and Certificates: 
 
Possession of a valid California driver's license. Possession of or ability to obtain a Building 
Inspector certification issued by the International Code Council or other equivalent state, 
national or international association within 12 months of appointment. 
 
ADA Special Requirement: 
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment: 
 
Ability to sit, stand, walk, kneel, crouch, squat, stoop, reach, crawl, twist, climb, and lift up to 
75 50 pounds occasionally and up to 75 pounds rarely; exposure to extreme noise, outdoors, 
confining work space, electrical hazards, vibration, chemicals, dust, toxic waste, mechanical 
hazards, and explosive materials. 
 
ADOPTED CC: 
6-20-94 
REVISED CC:  
 
   5-20-02, 6-21-04, 6-3-19 
FORMER TITLES: 
BARGAINING UNIT: 
GENERAL UNIT 
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL: 
COMPLIANCE AND INSPECTION 
FLSA: 
NON-EXEMPT 
DOT: 
NO 
PRE APPT MEDICAL: 
YES 
SAFETY SENSITIVE: 
YES 
FORM 700: 
YES 
JOB CODES: 
5032 
ABOLISHED: 
 
 
172 of 214

--- page 173 ---
BUILDING INSPECTOR I-II 
 
 
 
 
 
DEFINITION 
 
To inspect routine and complex structure and building systems at various stages of construction, 
alteration and repair; to investigate and secure compliance with housing, zoning, environmental 
and general land use standards; to assist in the review of building plans and specifications; and to 
do related work as required. 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
 
Building Inspector I - This is the entry level in the Building Inspector series.  This class is 
distinguished from the Building Inspector II by the performance of the more routine and 
standardized tasks and duties assigned to positions within the series.  Assignments are performed 
within the procedural framework established by higher level employees.  Since this class is 
typically used as a training class, employees may have only limited or no directly related work 
experience. 
 
Building Inspector II - This is the journey level class within the series.  Employees within this 
class are distinguished from Building Inspector I by the performance of the full range of duties as 
assigned including moderately difficult combination inspections of a variety of residential, 
commercial and industrial buildings; and the most complex inspections of commercial and 
industrial buildings within one inspection discipline such as building, electrical, or plumbing and 
mechanical.  Employees at this level receive only occasional instruction or assistance as new or 
unusual situations arise and are fully aware of the operating procedures and policies of the work 
unit.  Positions in this class are flexibly staffed and are normally filled by advancement from the 
lower class of Building Inspector I, or, when filled from the outside, require prior building 
inspection work experience. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
 
Building Inspector I 
 
 
Receives immediate supervision from the Senior Building InspectorInspection Supervisor 
or higher level department personnel. 
 
Building Inspector II 
 
 
Receives general supervision from the Senior Building InspectorInspection Supervisor. 
 
 
May exercise technical and functional supervision over lower level staff. 
173 of 214

--- page 174 ---
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES - Depending upon assignment, duties may include, but are not limited 
to, the following: 
 
Make field inspections of industrial, commercial, and residential buildings during various stages 
of construction and remodeling; ensure proper and safe installations of routine and complex 
building systems; ensure building progress conforms to Uniform California Building Code, 
Plumbing and Electrical Codes, City codes and ordinances and pertinent provisions of Federal, 
State and County health and environmental ordinances. 
 
Responds to emergencies when called upon by supervisor, or emergency dispatchers, to assist as 
technical expert in evaluation of safety.  
 
Issue permits for work to be performed. 
 
Assist in the checking of building plans. 
 
Participate in Fire Department and County Health Department inspections as required in one or 
more inspection disciplines such as electrical, plumbing, or mechanical. 
 
Coordinate inspection activities with other City departments to ensure compliance with conditions 
attached to projects by the Development Review Board, the Planning Commission or the City 
Council. 
 
Make field review of plans and specifications. 
 
Conduct inspections with the Code Enforcement office to verify complaints and/or conditions 
violating building and zoning codes; conduct follow-up inspections to check and verify that 
conditions are completed. 
 
Conduct inspections, prepare reports and serve as needed to assist the City Attorney in legal actions 
initiated by the Building Division. 
 
Respond to and resolve citizen inquiries and complaints regarding the City's building inspection 
function. 
 
Retrieve building, assessor's parcels, files and other computerized records from computer database 
as required. 
 
Perform other duties to ensure the smooth operation of the office including answering the phones, 
scheduling inspections, and compiling and filing building plans and other related construction 
documents. 
 
Confer with architects, contractors, builders and the general public in the field and office; explain 
and interpret requirements and restrictions; review reports from special inspection agencies, 
engineers, and architects relating to specific projects. 
 
Maintain detailed records and prepare reports. 
 
Plan, organize, control, integrate and evaluate the operations in the subject area under his/her 
174 of 214

--- page 175 ---
purview. Develop and implement goals and objectives, develop and implement policies. 
 
Monitor compliance, including after violations. 
 
Review work to ensure accuracy and completeness. 
 
Conduct review of complex technical documents for conformance with accuracy, industry 
standards, codes, ordinances, and regulations. 
 
Prepare reports, warning letters, citations, calculations, analysis, grants, diagrams, or technical 
materials for City, City Committees, public vendor, state and federal filings, and advisory reports. 
 
Participate in the development of policies and procedures and make recommendations on programs 
and projects. 
 
Keep informed of industry trends and developments. 
 
Prepare routine documents, such as work orders, correspondence, memos; emails and distributes 
them. 
 
Train or lead staff members or stakeholders. 
 
Ensure duties are conducted in a safe, efficient manner, including securing the work environment. 
 
Interpret city codes, policies, and ordinances. 
 
Perform outreach and draft outreach materials. 
 
Process transactions and issue permits. 
 
Utilize computers and specialized equipment. 
 
Maintain equipment. 
 
Perform other duties as assigned. 
 
QUALIFICATIONS 
 
Building Inspector I 
 
 
Knowledge of: 
 
 Methods of building construction. 
 
 Accepted Safety standards. 
 
 Research methods and sources of information related to building code enforcement. 
Building related codes and ordinances enforceable by the City, including the Uniform 
California Building Codes, zoning ordinances, and other environmental codes and energy 
175 of 214

--- page 176 ---
regulations. 
 
 Ability to: 
 
Learn to perform journey-level inspections in a variety of specialty trade areas and to 
perform competent and efficient work as a combination Building Inspector. 
 
 
Learn to enforce a variety of zoning, general land use and related City codes. 
 
 
Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing. 
 
 
Read and interpret building plans, specifications, and building codes. 
 
 
Advise on standard construction methods and requirements. 
 
 
Make arithmetical computations rapidly and accurately. 
 
 
Establish and maintain cooperative working relations with those contacted in the course of   
 
work. 
 
 
Enforce necessary regulations with firmness and tact. 
 
Experience and Training Guidelines 
 
Any combination of experience and training that would likely provide the required knowledge  
and abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be: 
 
 
Experience: 
 
Three years of experience in the building construction field as a journey level plumber, 
electrician, carpenter or related craftsperson. 
 
 
Training: 
 
 
Equivalent to completion of the twelfth grade. 
 
License or Certificate 
 
Possession of an appropriate, valid California driver's license.  
 
Possession of, or ability to obtain, within one year, certification as a Building Inspector issued by 
the ICC (International Code Council) or other equivalent state, national, or international 
association. 
 
Building Inspector II 
 
 
In addition to the qualifications for Building Inspector I: 
 
 
 
Knowledge of: 
176 of 214

--- page 177 ---
Principles and techniques of building inspection work. 
 
 
 
Ability to: 
 
 
 
Apply technical knowledge and follow proper inspection techniques to examine 
workmanship and materials, and detect deviations from plans, regulations, and standard 
construction practices. 
 
 
 
Apply City Codes and policies regarding zoning, environmental matters and other 
regulations to field situations. 
 
 
 
Work independently without supervision. 
 
Experience and Training Guidelines 
 
Any combination of experience and training that would likely provide the required knowledge and 
 
 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be: 
 
 
Experience: 
 
 
Two years of responsible experience performing duties comparable to those of a Building 
 
Inspector I for the City of San Mateo. 
 
License or Certificate 
 
Possession of certification as a Building Inspector issued by the ICC (International Code 
Council) or other equivalent state, national, or international association.  Possession of an 
appropriate, valid California drivers' license. 
 
ADA Special Requirement: 
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment: 
 
 
Ability to sit, stand, walk, kneel, crouch, squat, stoop, reach, crawl, twist, climb, and lift up to 75 
50  pounds occasionally and up to 75 pounds rarely; exposure to extreme noise, outdoors, confining 
work space, electrical hazards, vibration, chemicals, dust, toxic waste, mechanical hazards, and 
explosive materials. 
 
ADOPTED CC:  
 
4-12-81 
REVISED CC:  
 
9-07-88, 5-20-02, 6-21-04 
FORMER TITLES:  
BARGAINING UNIT: 
GENERAL UNIT 
FLSA:  
 
 
NON-EXEMPT 
DOT:  
 
 
NO 
PRE APPT MEDICAL: 
 
YES 
SAFETY SENSITIVE: 
 
YES 
FORM 700:  
 
NO 
JOB CODES: 
 
BUILDING INSPECTOR I – 5031, BUILDING INSPECTOR II – 5030, 
BUILDING INTSPECTOR II (K RATE) – 5030K 
ABOLISHED: 
177 of 214

--- page 178 ---
PRINCIPAL PLANNER 
 
 
 
 
 
DEFINITION 
 
To plan, organize, supervise, and participate in the work of professional, technical and clerical 
planning personnel assigned to either the current or advance planning functions of the Planning 
Division; to act as Zoning Administrator when assigned; to act as Chief of PlanningPlanning 
Manager in his/her absence; and to do related work as required. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
 
Receives direction from the Chief of PlanningPlanning Manager or higher level department 
personnel in the Community Development Department. 
 
Exercises May exercise direct supervision over professional, technical and clerical planning 
personnel. 
 
EXAMPLES OF IMPORTANT AND ESSENTIAL DUTIES - Duties may include, but are 
not limited to, the following: 
 
Supervise and coordinate either the Planning Division’s current or advance planning programs; 
act as Zoning Administrator when assigned; supervise special planning, zoning, and 
environmental studies; and prepare reports and findings. 
 
Direct, coordinate, review, and participate in the work of professional, technical and clerical 
staff in data collection, analysis, plan and policy formulation, and implementation of a wide 
variety of planning, zoning, and environmental review activities. 
 
Supervise, train, and evaluate assigned staff. This includes developing individual planner work 
programs, monitoring progress and preparing performance evaluations. 
 
Implement goals, objectives, policies and priorities; assist in their development; and initiate 
recommendations for changes in codes, plans and policies. 
 
Work with Citizen Advisory Committee, Technical Advisory Committee, Ad-Hoc Committee, 
Homeowners and Business Associations, as may be applicable for specific projects. 
 
Act as liaison and present reports to the Planning Commission, Development Review Board, 
City Council, and various citizen committees as assigned. 
 
178 of 214

--- page 179 ---
Coordinate planning activities with other Department divisions City departments, Development 
Review Board and with applicable public agencies. 
 
Confer with developers regarding development applications and processes; complete 
processing of the most difficult and complex planning applications; and advise staff on 
processing of applications. 
 
Perform the most complex and sensitive planning duties; and serve as staff resource in 
technical areas. 
 
Make zoning interpretations as required.  
 
Assist in the preparation and administration of the annual budget and plan division work 
program. 
 
Utilize computer applications relating to planning. 
 
 
QUALIFICATIONS 
 
 
Knowledge of: 
 
 
Principles and practices of urban planning 
 
 
Computer systems and applications. 
 
 
Research methods. 
 
 
Federal, State, and local laws relating to planning. 
 
 
Principles of administration and of personnel and budget management. 
 
 
Ability to: 
 
 
Effectively direct the work of assigned staff. 
 
Understand and interpret codes, plans, and policies. 
 
 
Process the most complex and sensitive planning applications. 
 
 
Prepare and analyze planning studies and clearly communicate findings of these studies. 
 
Work independently and exercise good judgment. 
 
Communicate effectively in writing and verbally. 
 
Maintain effective working relationships with those contacted in the course of work. 
 
Work extended or irregular hours. 
179 of 214

--- page 180 ---
Experience and Training Guidelines 
 
Any combination of experience and training that would likely provide the required knowledge  
and abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be: 
 
 
Experience: 
 
 
 
Six years of professional experience in the field of urban planning, including some  
supervisory experience. 
 
 
Training: 
 
 
Equivalent to a Bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with major  
 
coursework in planning or a related field. 
 
 
Licenses: 
 
 
Possession of the appropriate, valid California Driver’s License may be required. 
 
 
ADA SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS: 
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment: 
 
Ability to work in a standard office environment with some exposure to the outdoors. 
 
ADOPTED CC:  
 
8-05-02 
REVISED CC:  
 
FORMER TITLES:  
BARGAINING UNIT: 
 
MANAGEMENT UNIT 
FLSA:  
 
 
EXEMPT 
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL: 
MANAGEMENT 
DOT:  
 
 
NO 
PRE APPT MEDICAL: 
 
NO 
SAFETY SENSITIVE: 
 
NO 
FORM 700:  
 
YES 
JOB CODES: 
 
2132 
ABOLISHED:  
 
 
 
180 of 214

--- page 181 ---
BUILDING OFFICIAL 
 
 
 
 
DEFINITION 
 
To organize, direct, plan, supervise, and coordinate the work of the Building Division; to ensure 
compliance with laws and regulations applicable to building construction and maintenance; and 
to do related work as required. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
 
Receives general direction from the Community Development Director. 
 
Exercises direct supervision over professional, technical staff. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES - Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 
 
Direct and participate in the development and implementation of goals, objectives, policies, and 
priorities; implement City and department goals, objectives, policies and priorities. 
 
Plan, organize, control, and evaluate the functions and activities of the Building Division, including 
building and housing inspections, plan checking, and service to the public at counter and phones. 
 
Respond to complaints issued by Attorney General's office by reviewing and ensuring compliance 
to laws and regulations within 90 days. 
 
Establish, improve, supervise and coordinate the public service, plan checking, and building 
inspection procedures of the City.  
 
Ensure that close coordination is maintained between various City departments and divisions for 
the plan check, inspection, and maintenance functions. 
 
Represent the Building Division at City Council, Planning Commission, other Boards and 
Commissions, and at professional and public meetings as required. 
 
Perform the most difficult field inspections and plan checks and oversee inspections, plan checks 
and decisions made by subordinates. 
 
Interpret and enforce Uniform California Building codes, local ordinances, State and local 
amendments to Uniform California Building codes and all other laws relating to building and new 
construction. 
 
Recommend and draft code changes, relating to building and new construction; maintain City 
181 of 214

--- page 182 ---
ordinances in compliance with latest model codes and State regulations. 
Maintain a high level of public relations with the development community and City residents. 
 
Utilize computers for word processing, spreadsheets, permit tracking and issuance, and other 
programs. 
 
Prepare and administer the division budget, maintaining appropriate budgetary controls. 
 
Supervise, train, develop and evaluate assigned personnel. 
 
QUALIFICATIONS 
 
 
Knowledge of: 
 
 
Principles and practices of organization, administration, personnel and budget management. 
 
Principles and practices of the Uniform California Building, Plumbing, Mechanical, and 
Electrical Codes, other uniform codes, State Title 24, laws relating to disabled access, and 
pertinent State and City codes and ordinances and regulations. 
 
Principles of structural design, plan checking, building inspection, architectural plan review, 
energy standards, and handicapped disabled access or Americans with Disabilities Act 
(ADA). 
 
 
Computer applications in building. 
 
 
Relationship of Building Division to other City divisions and departments. 
 
 
Ability to: 
 
Organize, direct, and coordinate the activities of a division in a manner conducive to full 
performance and high morale. 
 
Analyze, interpret and check complex plans, specifications, calculations, laws, and 
regulations. 
 
 
Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing. 
 
Plan, organize, direct, establish, and maintain cooperative relations with City staff, and 
public and private organizations. 
 
 
Supervise, train, and evaluate assigned personnel. 
 
Experience and Training Guidelines 
 
Any combination of experience and training that would likely provide the required knowledge and  
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be: 
 
 
182 of 214

--- page 183 ---
Experience: 
 
 
Four years of increasingly responsible experience of a supervisory and administrative nature  
 
in the design, construction, and inspection of public, commercial, industrial, or residential  
 
buildings. 
 
 
Training:  
 
 
Equivalent to a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university with major course  
 
work in structural, mechanical, or civil engineering, architecture, or a related field. 
 
License or Certificate 
 
Possession of a Building Official Certificate issued by the Conference of American Building 
OfficialsInternational Code Council or other equivalent state, national, or international 
association is required within 12 months of appointment. 
 
and a cCertificate of registration as an Architect or Engineer in the State of California is desirable. 
 
ADA Special Requirements: 
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment: 
 
Ability to work in a standard office environment with some frequent ability to sit, stand, walk, 
kneel, crouch, squat, stoop, reach, crawl, twist and climb; some occasional exposure to cold, heat, 
extreme noise, outdoors, confining work space, electrical hazards, vibration, chemicals, dust, 
mechanical hazards, and explosive materials, and ability to drive. 
 
 
ADOPTED CC:  
 
 
4-12-81 
REVISED CC:  
 
12-16-85, 6-07-93, 5-20-02, 6-21-04 
FORMER TITLES:  
BARGAINING UNIT: 
 
MANAGEMENT UNIT 
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL: 
MANAGEMENT 
FLSA:  
 
 
EXEMPT 
DOT:  
 
 
NO 
PRE APPT MEDICAL: 
 
YES 
SAFETY SENSITIVE: 
 
YES 
FORM 700:  
 
YES 
JOB CODES: 
 
2090 
ABOLISHED:  
 
183 of 214

--- page 184 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4579
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Library Department
MEETING DATE:
May 03, 2021 
SUBJECT:
California State Library Services and Technology Act – Budget Appropriation
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental budget appropriation in the amount of $9,570 for a grant awarded by the 
California State Library to the San Mateo Public Library to support the “Maker Camps!” project. 
BACKGROUND:
Library Services and Technology Act (LSTA) grants are federally funded by the Institute of Museum and Library Services and 
are awarded by the State Library to eligible California libraries. The State Library distributes the funding into various grant 
opportunities designed to improve the quality and reach of library programs or services. In January of 2021, the State 
Library opened a grant opportunity specifically targeting Virtual Youth Programming with grant opportunities up to 
$12,000. The San Mateo Public Library's grant application resulted in an award of $9,570, which will be used to provide 
innovative virtual programming with an emphasis on STEM for K-12 youth this summer, June-August 2021. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Once appropriated, the donated funds will augment the library’s General Fund expense accounts for Children’s and 
Literacy services. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This budget adjustment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve 
any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution 
STAFF CONTACT
Marcia Mendonca, Senior Management Analyst
mmendonca@cityofsanmateo.org
6505227805
James Moore, City Librarian
jmoore@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7802
184 of 214

--- page 185 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021)
AUTHORIZING A SUPPLEMENTAL BUDGET APPROPRIATION OF $9,570 IN GRANT FUNDS FROM THE 
CALIFORNIA STATE LIBRARY AND TECHNOLOGY ACT 
(FISCAL YEAR 2020-21 BUDGET)
WHEREAS, in January 2021, the State Library opened a grant opportunity specifically targeting Virtual 
Youth Programming with grant opportunities up to $12,000; and
WHEREAS, the San Mateo Public Library's grant application resulted in an award of $9,570, which will be 
used to provide innovative virtual programming with an emphasis on STEM for K-12 youth this summer, June-
August 2021; and
WHEREAS, a supplemental budget appropriation in the amount $9,570 of the grant award to the 2020-
2021 Fiscal Year budget is required to finance these efforts; 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
A supplemental budget appropriation to the 2020-2021 Fiscal Year Budget is authorized as follows:

$9,570 to augment the Library department General Fund account #10-6621-10-5594 
185 of 214

--- page 186 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4484
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
May 3, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Contracts with Contingency Component – Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive the report on citywide contracts contingency fund expenditures for the period from July 1, 2015 through February 
28, 2021.
BACKGROUND:
When presenting contracts to the City Council for award, staff typically requests approval of additional contingency funds 
and authorization to approve additional work or issue change orders up to the contingency amount. The contingency 
amount is typically 10% of the total contract. This approach provides flexibility and efficiency in that projects may continue 
without having to return to the City Council for approval of change orders. The current report shows all active contracts 
citywide with contingencies greater than $25,000 awarded from July 1, 2015 through February 28, 2021. This report also 
includes an attachment that shows completed projects with contingencies from this same period. 
These updates are provided approximately three times annually at a City Council meeting in January, May and September.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Since this is an update on previously awarded contracts, there is no budget impact. Sufficient funds have been allocated to 
each of the contracts including the contingency amounts.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Active Projects
Att 2 – Completed Projects 
STAFF CONTACT
Angela Romanini, Management Analyst I
aromanini@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7340 
186 of 214

--- page 187 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works 
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7309
187 of 214

--- page 188 ---
STATUS OF ONGOING CONTRACTS WITH CONTINGENCY FUNDS from 7/1/15 through 02/28/2021
This summary does not include projects with contingencies under $25,000. Negative or no-cost change orders do not typically impact the contingency fund.
Most Recent 
CC Date 
Project #
Contractor/ Vendor
Description
 Amount Approved 
by Council 
 Contingency 
Budget 
 1st CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 2nd CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 3rd CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 4th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 5th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
6-9th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency
 Total 
Contingency 
used 
% of 
Contingency 
Used
 Remaining 
Contingency 
Approximate 
Completion %
and Notes
12/7/2020
561625
Consolidated CM
Fire Station 25 Construction Management
 $                 852,672  $            119,000  $            29,000 
 $                  -  $                       -  $          29,000 
24%
 $            90,000 
 78% Complete 
11/16/2020
N/A
Unison Solutions
Unison BioGas Conditioning System (BioCNG100) 
maintenance
 $                 304,804  $              30,000 
 $                     - 
0%
 $            30,000 
67% Complete
11/16/2020
469981
 CH2M/Jacobs 
Clean Water Program (CWP) Program Management  $           14,330,000  $        1,880,000 
 $                     - 
0%
 $      1,880,000 
34% complete
11/2/2020
46f012
Newton Construction
Central Park Tennis Garage Repair
 $              1,030,197  $            100,000  $              2,463 
 $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $            2,463 
2%
 $            97,538 
10% Complete
11/2/2020
46S005
Woodard & Curran 
Basin 4 Collection System Improvements 
Professional Services - Design
 $              2,215,258  $            145,000  $            27,643  $            43,224  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $          70,867 
49%
 $            74,133 
25% complete
11/2/2020
46T003
HDR Engineering, Inc.
WWTP  Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow 
Management Upgrade and Expansion - Engineering 
Services during Construction
 $           13,143,427  $        2,244,000 
 $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $                     - 
0%
 $      2,244,000 
7% complete
9/21/2020
46T003
Sundt Construction, Inc.
WWTP Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather 
Management Upgrade and Expansion - GMP3
 $         379,880,747  $      13,900,000  $                     -    $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $                     - 
0%
 $    13,900,000 
8% complete
9/8/2020
467001-
46000-006
McKim Corporation
Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package 1-B
 $              1,318,597  $            130,000  $              1,265 
 $            1,265 
1%
 $          128,735 
 50% complete 
9/8/2020
46S091
EPS, Inc
El Camino Real Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation 
Project
 $              1,795,328  $            200,000 
 $                     - 
0%
 $          200,000 
 15% complete 
8/17/2020
467770
Interstate Grading & Paving
Citywide Street Reconstruction Phase 1
 $              3,690,533  $            370,000 
 $                     - 
0%
 $          370,000 
 75% Complete 
8/17/2020
46F012
Newton Construction, Inc. 
Central Park Tennis Court Garage Repair
 $                 747,832  $              75,000 
 $                     - 
0%
 $            75,000 
 0% Complete 
8/17/2020
N/A
Waterworks Industries, Inc.
Marina Lagoon Vegetation & Water Quality 
Management
 $                 677,500  $              93,000 
 $                     - 
0%
 $            93,000  25% complete (year 1 of 
3) 
7/20/2020
469916
Enterprise Automation
WWTP Supervisory Control & Data Acquisition 
System Merger Project and Collections System
 $                 787,480  $              80,000  $                       -  $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $                     - 
0%
 $            80,000 
 36% complete 
7/20/2020
46T003
Sundt Construction, Inc.
WWTP Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather 
Management Upgrade and Expansion - GMP2
 $           17,888,551  $        1,655,000  $    172,502.00  $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $        172,502 
10%
 $      1,482,498 
40% complete
7/20/2020
46T003
Sundt Construction, Inc.
WWTP Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather 
Management Upgrade and Expansion - GMP1
 $           33,364,015  $        1,725,000  $            18,326 
 $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $          18,326 
1%
 $      1,706,674 
 98% Complete 
7/20/2020
467770
Wilsey Ham
Professional Design Services for Street 
Reconstruction Phase 1
 $                 556,709  $              50,000  $            32,131  $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $          32,131 
64%
 $            17,869 
 95% Complete 
6/29/2020
46F007
Pride Industries One, Inc.
City Hall Restrooms Remodel
 $                 292,419  $              25,000  $                       -  $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $                     - 
0%
 $            25,000 
 40% Complete 
5/18/2020
46S003
Stantec
Basin 2 & 3 Collection System 
Improvements/Design Services 
 $           15,600,841  $            322,000  $                       -  $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $                     - 
0%
 $          322,000 
95% complete
5/4/2020
468202
Anderson Pacific Engineering 
Construction, Inc. 
North Shoreview Flood Improvements-Construction 
Contract
 $           23,927,600  $        2,390,000  $            75,512 
$218,551 
 $          16,640 
 $ 
 $                  -  $                       -  $        310,703 
13%
 $      2,079,297 
40% Complete
5/4/2020
46S003
Anderson Pacific Engineering 
Construction, Inc. 
UFES-Construction Contract
 $           59,777,330  $        4,500,000  $              3,645  $                       -  $                   -    $                    -    $                -    $                     -    $            3,645 
0%
 $      4,496,355 
24% complete
5/4/2020
46S003/46T
003
Terraphase Engineering, Inc. 
CWP WWTP Upgrade and Expansion and UFES 
Projects
 $                 588,330  $              50,000 
 $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $                     - 
0%
 $            50,000 
29% complete
3/2/2020
610041
Edgeworth Integration, LLC.
Citywide Building Access Control System
 $                 590,542  $            103,000  $            35,035  $            11,850  $            3,192  $           18,000  $         2,657  $            10,286  $          81,020 
79%
 $            21,980 
 99% complete 
3/2/2020
469988
Schaaf & Wheeler
East San Mateo Sanitary Sewer Lift Station 
Rehabilitation Project - Amendment - Services 
During Construction
 $              1,190,760  $              45,000  $                       -  $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $                     - 
0%
 $            45,000 
 99% Complete 
2/3/2020
N/A
Waterworks Industries, Inc.
Marina Lagoon Vegetation & Water Quality 
Management
 $                 935,656  $              93,000 
 $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $                     - 
0%
 $            93,000 
 33.3% Complete 
1/21/2020
461009
Park Engineering, Inc. 
Downtown Parking Technology Project
 $                 248,667  $              25,000  $                       -  $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $                     - 
0%
 $            25,000 
 85% Complete 
1/6/2020
467007
RK Engineering, Inc.
N San Mateo Dr Sustainable Street Project
 $              3,006,775  $            300,000  $              2,346  $              6,260  $            1,211  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $            9,816 
3%
 $          290,184 
 80% Complete 
11/18/2019
467771
Wilsey Ham
Street Reconstruction Phase II Engineering Services  $                 599,623  $              60,000  $            22,570  $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $          22,570 
38%
 $            37,430 
 25% Complete 
11/18/2019
N/A
Serco, Inc.
Parking Enforcement Services
 $              3,754,440  $            375,444  $                       -  $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $                     - 
0%
 $          375,444 
 42% Complete 
11/4/2019
467001
WRECO, Inc.
Street Rehabilitation Package 1-C
 $                 268,600  $              60,000  $            27,968  $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $          27,968 
47%
 $            32,032 
 95% Complete 
188 of 214

--- page 189 ---
STATUS OF ONGOING CONTRACTS WITH CONTINGENCY FUNDS from 7/1/15 through 02/28/2021
This summary does not include projects with contingencies under $25,000. Negative or no-cost change orders do not typically impact the contingency fund.
Most Recent 
CC Date 
Project #
Contractor/ Vendor
Description
 Amount Approved 
by Council 
 Contingency 
Budget 
 1st CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 2nd CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 3rd CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 4th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 5th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
6-9th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency
 Total 
Contingency 
used 
% of 
Contingency 
Used
 Remaining 
Contingency 
Approximate 
Completion %
and Notes
10/21/2019
460039
Sausal Corporation
Fire Station 25
 $              6,140,000  $            673,000  $            15,394  $              3,812  $            4,152  $           22,071  $       51,962  $            65,443  $        162,835 
24%
 $          510,165 
 90% Complete 
10/7/2019
46S003
Anvil Builders, Inc.
Basin 2 & 3 Collection System Improvements/Dale 
Ave Pump Station Upgrade
 $           20,142,000  $        2,000,000  $            34,336  $          143,161  $        413,992  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $        591,489 
30%
 $      1,408,511 
 55% Complete 
10/7/2019
461009
IPS Group, Inc.
San Mateo Downtown Parking Technology Project  $              1,459,405  $            218,911  $            24,390  $          190,998  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $        215,388 
98%
 $              3,523 
 85% Complete 
9/16/2019
469031
Disability Access Consultants, 
Inc.
Americans with Disabilities Act Self-Evaluation & 
Transition Plan
 $                 282,925  $              26,000  $            20,000  $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $          20,000 
77%
 $              6,000 
 90% Complete 
9/16/2019
N/A
Koffler Electrical Mechanical 
Apparatus Repair, Inc.
Marina Lagoon Pump Overhaul
 $                 466,400  $              46,640  $                       -  $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $                     - 
0%
 $            46,640 
 50% Complete (1 
pump/year for 3 years) 
9/3/2019
460037
BKF Engineers
El Camino @ RTE 92 Landscaping Improvements
 $                 327,520  $              30,000  $                       -  $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $                     - 
0%
 $            30,000 
 7% Complete 
7/15/2019
610027
RRM Design Group
Central Park Design Development Services
 $                 347,460  $              45,000  $                       -  $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $                     - 
0%
 $            45,000 
 33% Complete 
5/20/2019
46T003
Kutzmann & Associates, Inc
WWTP Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather 
Management Upgrade and Expansion - Building 
Plan Review & Inspection
  $930,000  $            100,000  $                       -  $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $                     - 
0%
 $          100,000 
 15% complete 
5/20/2019
460040
 Tennyson Electric, Inc.
Baywood High-Voltage Streetlight Conversion
 $              1,335,920  $            135,000  $            33,480  $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $          33,480 
25%
 $          101,520 
 75% complete 
5/6/2019
46T003
Sundt Construction, Inc.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Nutrient Removal and 
Wet Weather Flow Management Upgrade and 
Expansion - Preconstruction Services
$2,535,044  $            202,427  $            63,925  $                       -  $                   -    $                    -    $                -    $                     -    $          63,925 
32%
 $          138,502 
98% complete
4/1/2019
310008
PlaceWorks Inc.
General Plan Update
 $              1,863,851  $            130,470  $            21,176  $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $          21,176 
16%
 $          109,294 
35% Complete
3/4/2019
46T009
Stantec
WWTP IAP II - Design & Engineering Services
 $              1,393,930  $              87,000  $                       -  $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $                     - 
0%
 $            87,000 
 98% complete 
1/22/2019
46T003
HDR Engineering, Inc.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Nutrient Removal and 
Wet Weather Flow Management Upgrade and 
Expansion - Design 
 $           27,516,647  $        2,575,823  $          162,940  $      1,440,882  $        168,001  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $    1,771,823 
69%
 $          804,000 
98% Complete
1/7/2019
46T009
Myers and Sons
WWTP IAP II Construction
 $              6,474,979  $            634,000  $            73,582 
 $                  -  $                       -  $          73,582 
12%
 $          560,418 
98% complete
12/3/2018
468202
Schaaf & Wheeler
Coyote Point and Poplar Avenue Pump Stations 
Design 
 $              1,131,070  $              50,000 
 $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $                     - 
0%
 $            50,000 
75% Complete
(contingency added with 
Am. 3 approved by CC 
12/3/2018)
8/20/2018
460064
PG&E
Sustainable Solutions Turnkey Program
 $              3,202,948  $            197,052  $            59,162  $            25,264 
 $                  -  $                       -  $          84,426 
43%
 $          112,626 
80% Complete
5/21/2018
462250
Biggs Cardoza Associates
Bermuda Bridge Replacement - Design
 $                 435,000  $              45,000  $                       -  $                       -  $                     -  $                      -  $                  -  $                       -  $                     - 
0%
 $            45,000 
65% Complete
189 of 214

--- page 190 ---
Most Recent 
CC Date 
Project #
 Description 
 Amount 
Approved by 
Council 
 Contingency 
Budget 
 1st CCO 
impacting 
Contingency 
 2nd CCO 
impacting 
Contingency 
 3rd CCO 
impacting 
Contingency 
 4th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 5th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 6th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingecy 
 7th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 Total 
Contingency 
used 
% of 
Contingency 
Used
 Unused 
Contingency 
Remarks
10/21/2019
469981
Clean Water 
Program (CWP) 
Program 
Management
 $      17,600,000  $        900,000  $          65,372  $          31,992  $          46,152  $          11,868  $            6,779  $          51,480  $          25,971  $        239,614 
27%
 $        660,386 
9/3/2019
469988
East San Mateo 
Sanitary Sewer Lift 
Station 
Rehabilitation - 
Construction
 $        3,286,404  $        350,000  $        161,625  $          38,444  $    41,534.00  $                   -    $                   -    $                   -   
 $        241,603 
69%
 $        108,397 
6/3/2019
46S091
 Basin D Sanitary 
Sewer 
Rehabilitation - 
Construction
 $        3,853,172  $        400,000  $          92,132  $            1,800  $            7,900  $          40,948  $          54,750  $          34,407  $          74,573  $        306,510 
77%
 $          93,490 
6/15/2020
467001
Citywide Slurry 
Seal Package 1-A
 $        1,060,035  $        123,000 
 $ 
 $                     -  $                     -  $                     -  $                     - 
 $                     - 
0%
 $        123,000 
1/21/2020
461214
2018-19 
Community 
Development 
Grand Street 
Rehab Project
 $           821,473  $          82,000 
 $ 
 $                     -  $                     -  $                     -  $                     - 
 $                     - 
0%
 $          82,000 
10/21/2019
46f004
Police Department 
Substation & 
Sleeping Quarters
 $           534,305  $          54,000  $          33,047  $            9,859  $            5,229  $                     -  $                     - 
 $          48,135 
89%
 $            5,865 
8/19/2019
46S093
Basin A Sanitary 
Sewer Cleaning & 
Video Inspection
 $           481,930  $          50,000  $            5,625  $                     -  $                     -  $                     -  $                     - 
 $            5,625 
11%
 $          44,375 
7/15/2019
469933
2018-19 Sanitary 
Sewer Root 
Foaming
$399,003 
 $          40,000 
 $                     -  $                     -  $                     -  $                     - 
 $                     - 
0%
 $          40,000 
7/15/2019
610023
King Park Sythentic 
Turf Construction
$2,016,135 
 $          80,000 
 $                     -  $                     -  $                     -  $                     - 
 $                     - 
0%
 $          80,000 
7/15/2019
610023
King Park Synthetic 
Turf Design and 
Management
 $           481,068 
$71,000 
 $            3,250  $          15,300  $            2,735  $            7,100  $                     - 
 $          28,385 
40%
 $          42,615 
7/15/2019
467002
2018-19 Street 
Rehabilitation 
Phase II Project
 $        2,217,590  $        220,000 
$64,120 
 $          33,173  $                (79)  $                     -  $                     - 
 $          97,214 
44%
 $        122,786 
7/15/2019
467002
2018-2019 Street 
Rehabilitation 
Phase I Project
 $        1,683,857  $        165,000 
$24,676 
 $          46,608  $          89,417  $      (333,457)
($172,756)
0%
 $        337,756 
COMPLETED CONTRACTS WITH CONTINGENCY FUNDS from 7/1/15 through 02/28/2021
This summary does not include projects with contingencies under $25,000. Negative or no-cost change orders do not impact the contingency fund.
190 of 214

--- page 191 ---
Most Recent 
CC Date 
Project #
 Description 
 Amount 
Approved by 
Council 
 Contingency 
Budget 
 1st CCO 
impacting 
Contingency 
 2nd CCO 
impacting 
Contingency 
 3rd CCO 
impacting 
Contingency 
 4th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 5th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 6th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingecy 
 7th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 Total 
Contingency 
used 
% of 
Contingency 
Used
 Unused 
Contingency 
Remarks
6/17/2019
none
Summer Children’s 
and Youth Theater 
Program
 $           120,000  $          25,000  $                     -  $                     -  $                     -  $                     -  $                     - 
0%
 $          25,000 
6/17/2019
467774
Rand Street 
Reconstruction
 $        1,126,763  $        100,000  $          44,891  $            5,830  $          74,563  $        (23,384)
 $        101,900 
102%
 $          (1,900)
 Balance 
approved by 
CC on 1/19/21 
6/17/2019
46S091
Basin C Sanitary 
Sewer 
Rehabilitation - 
Construction
 $        3,217,480  $        350,000  $          85,000  $            9,520  $          68,254  $        144,400  $      (305,045)
 $            2,129 
1%
 $        347,871 
5/6/2019
46S002
Basin 1B Collection 
System 
Improvements - 
Construction
  $ 4,626,145 
 $        700,000  $          15,000  $          17,195  $        128,011  $          12,250  $          95,126 
 $        267,582 
38%
 $        432,418 
5/6/2019
467774
Rochester and 
Ottawa Street 
Reconstruction
 $        2,693,440  $        230,000  $          10,505  $            5,895  $          (7,331)  $        209,785  $        (23,242)
 $        195,612 
85%
 $          34,388 
4/15/2019
469030
CNG Vehicle 
Maintenance 
Facility 
Design/Build
 $           277,183  $          25,000  $            1,866  $                     -  $                     -  $                     -  $                     - 
 $            1,866 
7%
 $          23,134 
9/17/2018
463231
2017-18 Sidewalk 
Repair Project
 $           468,609  $          47,000  $            5,733  $          12,550  $          19,329  $            4,920  $        (71,701)
 $        (29,170)
0%
 $          76,170 
9/17/2018
46s001
Basin 1A Collection 
System 
Improvements 
Construction
$6,335,080 
 $        640,000  $            2,612  $            1,927  $          15,000  $      (411,850)
 $      (392,311)
0%
 $    1,032,311 
9/17/2018
46S001 
Basin 1A Collection 
System 
Improvements 
Design
$1,188,982 
 $        105,000 
 $                     -  $                     -  $                     - 
 $                     - 
0%
 $        105,000 
8/20/2018
NA
Peninsula Music 
Together Classes
 $           130,000  $          25,000  $                     -  $                     -  $                     -  $                     -  $                     - 
 $                     - 
0%
 $          25,000 
8/20/2018
467002
 2018-19 Slurry 
Seal Basin B 
 $        1,263,110  $        125,000  $            9,976  $    49,366.00 
 $          59,342 
47%
 $          65,658 
8/20/2018
460046
 Main Street 
Garage Repairs 
 $           209,900  $          50,000  $                     -  $                     -  $                     - 
 $                     - 
0%
 $          50,000 
8/20/2018
461001
 2nd & ECR Garage 
Stair 
Improvements 
 $           321,100  $          50,000  $                     -  $                     -  $                     - 
 $                     - 
0%
 $          50,000 
8/20/2018
467003, 
462249
E. Hillsdale Blvd 
Street 
Rehabilitation
 $        1,609,536  $        165,000  $            5,755  $            8,268  $          10,000  $          37,956  $          61,978 
 $        123,956 
75%
 $          41,044 
8/20/2018
(none)
Tennis Instruction  $           200,000  $          25,000  $                     -  $                     -  $                     -  $                     -  $                     - 
 $                     - 
0%
 $          25,000 
191 of 214

--- page 192 ---
Most Recent 
CC Date 
Project #
 Description 
 Amount 
Approved by 
Council 
 Contingency 
Budget 
 1st CCO 
impacting 
Contingency 
 2nd CCO 
impacting 
Contingency 
 3rd CCO 
impacting 
Contingency 
 4th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 5th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 6th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingecy 
 7th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 Total 
Contingency 
used 
% of 
Contingency 
Used
 Unused 
Contingency 
Remarks
7/16/2018
467774
 East Poplar Ave 
Reconstruction 
Project 
 $           678,280  $          70,000  $          17,784  $    23,294.00  $    17,454.00  $       1,778.70 
 $          60,311 
86%
 $            9,689 
6/18/2018
(none)
 Summer Theater 
Program 
 $           140,000  $          25,000  $                     -  $                   -    $                   -   
 $                     - 
0%
 $          25,000 
5/7/2018
461106
 Poplar Ave Pump 
Station Trash 
Capture 
 $           457,500  $          46,000  $                     -  $                   -    $                   -   
 $                     - 
0%
 $          46,000 
4/16/2018
467004
 2016-2018 Street 
Rehab Phase I 
 $        1,084,674  $        100,000  $                     -  $                   -    $                   -   
 $                     - 
0%
 $        100,000 
4/16/2018
46s092
 42nd Ave Pump 
Station Rehap 
 $        1,283,369  $        130,000  $          98,738  $                   -    $                   -   
 $          98,738 
76%
 $          31,262 
3/19/2018
467774
E. 39th Avenue 
Street 
Reconstruction
 $           691,866  $          70,000  $          58,567  $            4,615  $       9,521.00 
 $          72,703 
104%
 $          (2,703)
Balance 
approved by 
CC on 1/7/19
2/20/2018
460036
Downtown 
Twinkle Light 
Installation
 $           525,981  $          39,100  $          27,720  $                   -    $                   -   
 $          27,720 
71%
 $          11,380 
2/20/2018
(none)
2019 Sycamore 
Tree Pruning
 $           280,320  $          35,000  $                     -  $                     -  $                     - 
 $                     - 
0%
 $          35,000 
1/16/2018
461214
2017 Community 
Development 
Block Grant Street 
Rehab
 $           645,640  $          65,000  $          (3,318)  $                   -    $                   -   
 $          (3,318)
0%
 $          68,318 
1/16/2018
465155
Bay to Transit Trail 
Phase I
 $           290,400  $          27,000  $                     -  $                   -    $                   -   
 $                     - 
0%
 $          27,000 
11/20/2017
460040
Los Prados High 
Voltage Streetlight 
Conversion
 $        1,077,708  $        110,000  $                     -  $                   -    $                   -   
 $                     - 
0%
 $        110,000 
10/16/2017
46s091 
(formerly 
469913)
Basin B Sanitary 
Sewer 
Rehabilitation 
Project 
 $        1,377,553  $        126,600  $          78,200  $                   -    $                   -   
 $          78,200 
62%
 $          48,400 
10/2/2017
465161 (plus 
funds from 
467004)
Citywide Crosswalk 
Improvement 
Project
 $           399,411  $          40,000  $                     -  $                   -    $                   -   
 $                     - 
0%
 $          40,000 
8/21/2017
467003
2016 Citywide 
Slurry Seal
 $           764,120  $          75,000  $        (77,513)  $                   -    $                   -   
 $        (77,513)
0%
 $        152,513 
8/21/2017
467004
E 3rd Ave Street 
Rehabilitation
 $        1,265,454  $        186,517  $                     -  $                   -    $                   -   
 $                     - 
0%
 $        186,517 
8/21/2017
467004
2016 Street 
Reconstruction - 
Various Locations
 $        1,988,274  $        200,000  $                     -  $                   -    $                   -   
 $                     - 
0%
 $        200,000 
192 of 214

--- page 193 ---
Most Recent 
CC Date 
Project #
 Description 
 Amount 
Approved by 
Council 
 Contingency 
Budget 
 1st CCO 
impacting 
Contingency 
 2nd CCO 
impacting 
Contingency 
 3rd CCO 
impacting 
Contingency 
 4th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 5th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 6th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingecy 
 7th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 Total 
Contingency 
used 
% of 
Contingency 
Used
 Unused 
Contingency 
Remarks
8/21/2017
46T009
WWTP IAP II 
Design
 $           876,000  $          87,000  $                     -  $                   -    $                   -   
 $                     - 
0%
 $          87,000 
6/5/2017
465164
Safe Routes to 
School 
Construction
 $        1,848,234  $        185,000  $          14,894  $            5,737  $    17,848.00 
 $          38,479 
21%
 $        146,521 
4/17/2017
469942
Dale Avenue Pump 
Station Wet Well 
Rehab
 $        1,299,500  $        130,000  $          29,101  $          75,939  $   (89,899.00)
 $          15,141 
12%
 $        114,859 
3/20/2017
463231
2016 Sidewalk 
Repair Program
 $           494,150  $          49,000  $                   -    $                   -    $                   -   
 $                     - 
0%
 $          49,000 
1/3/2017
610015, 
610017, 
610030, 
610008
Laurie Meadows 
Park Play Area 
Renovation Project
 $           912,425  $        105,667  $          73,348  $                   -    $                   -   
 $          73,348 
69%
 $          32,319 
10/3/2016
467774-46000-
7713
30th Avenue 
Street 
Reconstruction 
Project 
 $           919,193  $          90,000  $        (20,258)  $    32,971.00  $                   -   
 $          12,713 
14%
 $          77,287 
9/19/2016
46S093-4600-
9040-46320
2016 C Basin 
Sanitary Sewer 
Cleaning and Video 
Inspection
 $           369,841  $          36,990  $                     -  $                   -    $                   -   
 $                     - 
0%
 $          36,990 
9/6/2016
467004
Pavement 
Rehabilitation at 
Various Locations 
 $        1,187,247  $        118,000  $        (64,389)  $                   -    $                   -   
 $        (64,389)
0%
 $        182,389 
7/18/2016
465150 
(Contingency: 
467004)
North Central 
Pedestrian 
Infrastructure 
Improvements 
Construction 
Contract 
 $        1,238,396  $        125,000  $        (10,919)  $          85,196  $          28,247  $        (11,186)
 $          91,338 
73%
 $          33,662 
6/6/2016
466602
Poplar Corridor 
Safety 
Improvement 
Project 
Construction and 
Contract 
 $        1,356,740  $        135,000  $          27,700  $          28,655  $          78,562 
 $        134,917 
100%
 $                  83 
5/16/2016
461212
2016 Community 
Development 
Block Grant Curb 
Ramp and 
Sidewalk 
Installations - 
Contract Award
 $           337,821  $          35,000  $        (13,148)  $                   -    $                   -   
 $        (13,148)
0%
 $          48,148 
193 of 214

--- page 194 ---
Most Recent 
CC Date 
Project #
 Description 
 Amount 
Approved by 
Council 
 Contingency 
Budget 
 1st CCO 
impacting 
Contingency 
 2nd CCO 
impacting 
Contingency 
 3rd CCO 
impacting 
Contingency 
 4th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 5th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 6th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingecy 
 7th CCO 
Impacting 
Contingency 
 Total 
Contingency 
used 
% of 
Contingency 
Used
 Unused 
Contingency 
Remarks
5/16/2016
465157
Hillsdale/US-101 
Bicycle/Pedestrian 
Bridge Project - 
Amendment No. 1
 $           865,385  $          80,000  $                     -  $                   -    $                   -   
 $                     - 
0%
 $          80,000 
4/18/2016
46T003
WWTP Secondary 
Facilities 
Conceptual 
Planning
 $           110,264 
50,000
$          
 $                     -  $                     -  $                     - 
 $                     - 
0%
 $          50,000 
Contingency is 
included in PO 
(total of 
$1,150,264)
4/18/2016
463005
Citywide 
Streetlight Led 
Conversion Phase 
II - Contract Award
 $        1,589,627  $        158,963  $        (44,813)  $                     -  $                   -   
 $        (44,813)
0%
 $        203,776 
4/4/2016
467004
2014-2015 Street 
Rehabilitation 
Phase II 
Construction and 
Contract
 $        2,246,849  $        250,000  $        201,252  $          20,200  $                   -   
 $        221,452 
10%
 $          28,548 
4/4/2016
467004
2014-2015 Street 
Rehabilitation 
Phase II  
Construction 
Inspection 
Contract
 $           158,900  $    25,000.00  $  19,208.75 *  $                     -  $                     - 
 $                     - 
0%
 $          25,000 
 *CCO to 
correct 
unrelated 
billing error; 
no impact on 
contingency 
3/7/2016
46T002 
 Wastewater 
Treatment Plant 
Immediate Action 
Project (IAP) 
Package I 
 $      16,276,000  $    1,700,000  $        315,226  $          10,401  $        152,386  $          87,135 
 $        565,148 
3%
 $    1,134,852 
8/17/2015
610017, 
610030 
Beresford Park 
Play Area 
Renovations 
project - multiple 
specific contracts 
for Project Base 
Bid and Alternate 
No. 2 work
 $        2,175,100  $        174,008  $          43,251  $          15,130  $          31,837  $          29,236 
 $        119,454 
5%
 $          54,554 
7/20/2015
467774
Norton Ave and 
various street 
recontruction
 $        1,496,109  $        150,000  $        (89,733)  $                   -    $                   -   
 $        (89,733)
0%
 $        239,733 
7/20/2015
469948
Wastewater 
Treatment Plant 
Control System 
Upgrade
 $        1,365,419  $        150,000  $                     -  $                   -    $                   -   
 $                     - 
0%
 $        150,000 
Total:
7,072,586
$     
194 of 214

--- page 195 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4477
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
May 3, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Coyote Point and Poplar Pump Stations Design Services - Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 4 to the agreement with Schaaf & Wheeler for expanded scope and services for the Coyote Point 
and Poplar Avenue Pump Stations project, in an amount not to exceed $187,010, bringing the total agreement amount to 
$1,318,080; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The North Shoreview Levee (Project) is intended to remove the North Shoreview and portions of the North Central 
neighborhoods from tidal and residual interior Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA) shown on the effective Federal 
Emergency Management Agency Flood Insurance Rate Map. Schaaf & Wheeler was retained in August 2014 to provide 
engineering design services for the Coyote Point Pump Station and Poplar Pump Station projects and improvements to the 
Project.    
The Project is currently under construction and is generally proceeding as planned.  However, the Project has encountered 
unexpected site soil conditions that required the redesign of some micropile foundations.  The changes in micropile design 
in conjunction with slower micropile production rates resulted in additional design review and inspection time to ensure 
foundation performance specifications were achieved.  The additional scope of services is detailed in Attachment 1.  
Amendment No. 4 increases the contract amount by $187,010 to cover the above additional tasks and updates the 
consultant rate schedule to the current year.  A contingency of $50,000 was approved concurrently with Amendment No. 3 
and has been retained to address potential future additional scope of services that may be needed during the remainder 
of the construction phase. These and previous amendments are summarized in the table below.  
Amendment
Tasks
Amount
Original Agreement
Design, environmental documentation, permitting, & bid support
$546,300
Amendment No. 1
Surveying services for permanent easement acquisition 
$7,800
Amendment No. 2
Permitting services for regulatory agencies’ permit requirements; structural 
design services to increase capacity of pump station foundations; surveying 
services for temporary construction easement within Burlingame
$60,000
Amendment No. 3
Engineering support services for bidding and construction; additional 
coordination and permitting services with regulatory agencies and PG&E
$516,970
Amendment No. 4
Additional structural and geotechnical support services for construction
$187,010
Total Agreement Amount
$1,318,080
Remaining Contingency
$50,000
Total Authorized Amount
$1,368,080
195 of 214

--- page 196 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
This amendment will be funded from Project #468202, North Shoreview Flood Improvements.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Under section 15074 of the CEQA Guidelines, the City adopted a negative declaration for this project on October 19, 2015.  
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment
STAFF CONTACT
Jimmy Vo, Senior Engineer
jvo@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7319
196 of 214

--- page 197 ---
AMENDMENT NO. 4 TO THE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND SCHAAF & WHEELER 
CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS FOR THE 
COYOTE POINT PUMP STATION AND POPLAR AVENUE PUMP STATION 
DESIGN SERVICES 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State 
of California, and Schaaf & Wheeler Consulting Civil Engineers. (“Consultant”), entered 
into an Agreement for Engineering Services (“Agreement”) on August 13, 2014; and 
 
WHEREAS, City and Consultant amended the Agreement on January 21, 2016, 
January 24, 2017, and December 16, 2018. 
 
 
WHEREAS, City and Consultant wish to amend the Agreement to extend the 
term, increase compensation, and add scope. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 
 
 
1. 
Section 1 - Scope of Project of the Agreement is amended to reference 
"Exhibits A, A1, A2, A3, and A4." Exhibit A4 to the Agreement is attached and 
incorporated by reference. 
 
2. 
Section 8 - Payment of the Agreement is amended to change the fee from 
"$1,131,070" to "$1,318,080." 
 
 
3. 
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect. 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
SCHAAF & WHEELER CONSULTING 
CIVIL ENGINEERS 
 
 
______________________________ 
___________________________________ 
Azalea Mitch   
 
 
 
Charles D. Anderson 
Interim Public Works Director 
 
President 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:  ____________________ 
 
Date:  ____________________ 
197 of 214

--- page 198 ---
Exhibit A4
Amendment No. 4 to August 13, 2014 Agreement
Approval Date
Description
Total
8/13/2014
S&W Contract
546,300.00
$                                   
1/21/2016
Amendment 1
7,800.00
$                                       
1/24/2017
Amendment 2
60,000.00
$                                     
12/16/2018
Amendment 3
516,970.00
$                                   
Amendment 4
 $                                   187,010.00 
SUBTOTAL
1,318,080.00
$                               
12/16/2018
Contingency
 $                                     50,000.00 
TOTAL
1,368,080.00
$                               
S&W Contract - Cost Summary
198 of 214

--- page 199 ---
Description
Total Amt
Cornerstone
1/22/2021 For micropile observation services for the remaining 242 
micropiles to be installed.  
As of January, 21, 2021, a total of 172 micropiles have 
already been installed.  This work has exceeded approved 
budget, so requested budget increase covers budget overage 
and remaining work.  
174,000.00
$  
Biggs Cardosa
12/22/2020 Additional fee to complete construction support services. 
BCA spent several hours reponding to RFIs from contractor, 
having conference calls, and redesigning microsamples, 
including new steel casings, to accommodate unexpected soil 
issues at construction site that affected performance of 
micropiles.  This reduced available budget to response to 
customary RFIs and to review submittals.  
2,000.00
$       
12/22/2020 Additional structural engineering services that consists of 
designing and detailing a new reinforced concrete trash 
capture box since the trash capture became cast-in-place 
rather than precast during construction due to overhead 
electrical wires. 
6,570.00
$       
12/22/2020 Additional structural engineering services for redesigning the 
micropiles under the wet well structure at the Coyote Point 
Pump Station since location and quantity of micropiles 
changed during construction.
4,440.00
$       
TOTAL
187,010.00
$  
174,000.00
$  
13,010.00
$    
Amendment No. 4 Cost Summary
199 of 214

--- page 200 ---
Date: January 22, 2021 
Project No.: 187-25-2 
  
Prepared For: Mr. Charles Anderson, P.E. 
SCHAAF & WHEELER 
1171 Homestead Road, Suite 255 
Santa Clara, California 
  
Re: Change Order Request 
Geotechnical Micropile Observation Services 
Coyote Point and Poplar Storm Water Pump Stations 
Airport Boulevard and Poplar Avenue 
San Mateo, California 
 
As discussed with you, we have exceeded our approved budget and installation of the 
micropiles requiring our observation services remain to be completed.  The following describes 
our current budget status, understanding of the remaining scope, and presents our estimated 
cost for completing the work.  This document is an addendum to our existing agreement to work 
together dated October 5, 2020. 
 
Current Project and Approved Budget Status 
 
  
As discussed, the installation of the micropile for the improvements at the Coyote Point and 
Poplar storm water pump stations is ongoing.  To date, we have performed 62 site visits 
resulting in a total of approximately 612 hours for micropile observation services.  As of January 
21, 2021, a total of 172 micropiles have been installed (92 at Coyote Point and 79 at Poplar) 
with a total of 242 micropiles remaining to be installed (143 at Coyote Point and 99 at Poplar) 
per the current plans. 
 
Additionally, we exceeded our approved budget presented in our cost proposal referenced 
above on December 30, 2020. 
 
Remaining Construction Level of Effort Estimate 
 
 
We estimated the micropile contractor’s average production rate (lineal feet of micropile 
installed per day) based on the amount of micropiles installed to date.  We used this rate, the 
project schedule and plans, and our understanding of the remaining scope to prepare this 
estimate of the remaining number of field and office hours required.  All site earthwork is 
assumed to occur within normal working hours Monday through Friday.  The following table 
presents our estimated schedule of field and office for our additional geotechnical engineering 
construction services.   
 
200 of 214

--- page 201 ---
Project No. 187-25-2 
Page  2 
January 22, 2021 
 
Please note that our estimate does not include time for services performed due to problems or 
delays that may be encountered during construction and includes part-time and full-time 
observation and testing. 
 
 
 
Remaining Construction Tasks 
 
 
Personnel 
 
No. of Site 
Visits 
Estimated 
Hours per 
Visit 
Estimated 
Total 
Hours 
COYOTE POINT 
 
 
 
 
Meeting/Consultation 
Principal Eng. 
1 
2 
2 
Micropile Installation Observation 
Staff Eng. 
40 
9.5 
380 
Micropile Testing Observation 
Staff Eng. 
3 
4 
12 
POPLAR 
 
 
 
 
Meeting/Consultation 
Principal Eng. 
1 
2 
2 
Micropile Installation Observation 
Staff Eng. 
30 
9.5 
285 
Micropile Testing Observation 
Staff Eng. 
4 
4 
16 
TOTAL 
 
79 
 
697 
 
 
Office Tasks – Coyote Point and Poplar 
 
Personnel 
 
Hours 
Review field reports; project management; micropile installation 
and testing oversight, correspondence with design and 
construction teams and applicable agencies; consultation; and 
preparation of completion letter, if needed. 
Principal Eng. 
 
30 
 
 
Budget Status and Fees 
 
 
To date, we are approximately $27,700 over our approved budget of $87,240 which was 
exceeded on December 30, 2020.  The estimated cost to provide observation services for the 
remaining micropile installation and testing for both sites from the date of this proposal is 
$147,000.  Therefore, we request a budget increase of $174,000 for our additional services 
(including our current budget overage), raising our total budget to $261,240 to complete the 
project. 
 
Authorization 
 
 
Please acknowledge your receipt of and agreement with the additional scope of services and 
cost contained in this letter by signing it and returning one signed original to us.   
 
 
 
201 of 214

--- page 202 ---
Project No. 187-25-2 
Page  3 
January 22, 2021 
 
Should you have any questions regarding this proposal, or if we may be of further service, 
please contact us at your convenience. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Cornerstone Earth Group, Inc. 
 
 
 
Nicholas S. Devlin, P.E. 75613 
Principal Engineer 
 
NSD:ea 
Copies: Addressee (email) 
Schaaf and Wheeler 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name  
 
 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please Print Name and Title 
202 of 214

--- page 203 ---
M:\2014\215\100 Project Control\112 Contract\ASR#4\Coyote & Poplar PS - Proposal for Additional Fee to Complete 
Construction Support Services_ASR#4_BCA_12-22-20.docx
December 22, 2020
Schaaf & Wheeler
1171 Homestead Road, Suite 255
Santa Clara, CA 95050
Attention:
Mr. Chuck Anderson
Subject:
Coyote Point Pump Station Rehabilitation
Additional Service Request No. 4 – Coyote & Poplar Pump Stations
Dear Chuck:
Biggs Cardosa Associates, Inc. (BCA) is pleased to submit the following proposal to Schaaf & 
Wheeler (S&W) for an additional fee to complete construction support services.  In general, 
BCA spent several hours responding to RFI’s from the Contractor, having conference calls, and 
redesigning micropiles, including new steel casings, to accommodate unexpected soil issues at 
the site that affected the performance of the micropiles.  This reduced our available budget to 
respond to customary RFI’s and to review submittals.  The additional fee we are requesting is to 
respond to future RFI’s that may arise between now and the completion of construction.
Biggs Cardosa Associates, Inc. proposes to provide the additional scope of services outlined in 
this proposal for a time and materials fee including expenses as follows:
•
$2,000 Direct Labor
Please sign below and return to our office to authorize work to continue on this project.  Should 
you have any questions, please do not hesitate to call.
Sincerely,
BIGGS CARDOSA
ASSOCIATES, INC.
AGREED TO BY:________________________________
           Schaaf & Wheeler
            
                   
Anthony P. Notaro
DATE:_________________________________________
Associate
Anthony P Notaro
203 of 214

--- page 204 ---
M:\2014\215\100 Project Control\112 Contract\ASR#2\Coyote PS - Proposal for Design of Trash Capture 
Box_ASR#2_BCA_12-22-20.docx
December 22, 2020
Schaaf & Wheeler
1171 Homestead Road, Suite 255
Santa Clara, CA 95050
Attention:
Mr. Chuck Anderson
Subject:
Coyote Point Pump Station Rehabilitation
Additional Service Request No. 2 – Coyote Pump Station
Dear Chuck:
Biggs Cardosa Associates, Inc. (BCA) is pleased to submit the following proposal to Schaaf & 
Wheeler (S&W) to provide additional structural engineering services on the subject project 
located in San Mateo, California.  In general, the structural work will consist of designing and 
detailing a new reinforced concrete trash capture box.  Previously, the trash capture box 
consisted of a precast concrete box designed and detailed by the Contractor, but now the box will 
consist of a cast-in-place reinforced concrete box.
Biggs Cardosa Associates, Inc. proposes to provide the following scope of services to design and 
detail the new reinforced concrete trash capture box at Coyote PS:
Task 1.

Review trash capture box shop drawings provided by BIOCLEAN for all required 
dimensions.

Coordinate dimensions and any other design issues with S&W.

Design thickness and reinforcement for trash capture box walls and top slab.

Assemble and provide, signed and stamped, structural calculations to S&W for the design 
of the trash capture box.

Assemble and provide, signed and stamped, structural drawings in AUTOCAD format to 
S&W for the trash capture box.
Deliverables:

One (1) electronic set of deliverables noted above in PDF file format
ADDITIONAL SERVICES:
Although the CONSULTANT has tried to be comprehensive in developing this scope of work, 
there may be unforeseen issues, which will necessitate additional services beyond the scope of 
204 of 214

--- page 205 ---
M:\2014\215\100 Project Control\112 Contract\ASR#2\Coyote PS - Proposal for Design of Trash Capture 
Box_ASR#2_BCA_12-22-20.docx
work described herein.  Specific items described in the engineering services may require 
additional investigations, calculations, plans, or measures than what was scoped in this proposal. 
It is recommended that the CLIENT include some budget in the contract to account for 
unexpected additional services.
ASSUMPTIONS:
1.
Structural scope of services is limited to the structural elements and tasks outlined above. 
Design of additional elements or additional submittals can be provided as extra work.
2.
Documents will be submitted electronically in PDF format.
Biggs Cardosa Associates, Inc. proposes to provide the additional scope of services outlined in 
this proposal for a time and materials fee including expenses as follows:

$6,570 Direct Labor
Please sign below and return to our office to authorize work to continue on this project.  Should 
you have any questions, please do not hesitate to call.
Sincerely,
BIGGS CARDOSA
ASSOCIATES, INC.
AGREED TO BY:________________________________
 
           Schaaf & Wheeler
            
                   
 
Anthony P. Notaro
DATE:_________________________________________
Associate
205 of 214

--- page 206 ---
1
COYOTE PUMP STATION
SAN MATEO, CA - DESIGN FEE ESTIMATE - ASR#2
 
 
File:
Coyote PS - Fee Breakdown for Design of Trash Capture Box_ASR#2_BCA_12-22-20.xls
12/22/20
Biggs Cardosa Associates
PRINC
ASSOC
ENG
SENIOR
DRAF-
 
MGR
 ENG
TER
ADMIN
TOTAL
TOTAL
ASR#2
$300
$224
$195
$175
$140
$100
HOURS
BUDGET
Task 1 Design of Trash Capture Box
Structural Drawings
0
0
12
0
13.5
0
25.5
$4,230
Structural Calculations
0
0
12
0
0
0
12
$2,340
Reimbursables
$0
SUB. TOTAL HOURS:
0
0
24
0
13.5
0
37.5
SUB. TOTAL COSTS:
$0
$0
$4,680
$0
$1,890
$0
 
$6,570
REIMBURSABLE COSTS:
$0
TOTAL BCA (ASR#2) COSTS:
$6,570
 
206 of 214

--- page 207 ---
M:\2014\215\100 Project Control\112 Contract\ASR#3\Coyote PS - Proposal for Redesign of Wet Well 
Micropiles_ASR#3_BCA_12-22-20.docx
December 22, 2020
Schaaf & Wheeler
1171 Homestead Road, Suite 255
Santa Clara, CA 95050
Attention:
Mr. Chuck Anderson
Subject:
Coyote Point Pump Station Rehabilitation
Additional Service Request No. 3 – Coyote Pump Station
Dear Chuck:
Biggs Cardosa Associates, Inc. (BCA) is pleased to submit the following proposal to Schaaf & 
Wheeler (S&W) to provide additional structural engineering services on the subject project 
located in San Mateo, California.  In general, the structural work will consist of redesigning the 
micropiles under the wet well structure at the Coyote PS.  The location and quantity of 
micropiles, under the wet well mat slab, changed during construction from the approved 
structural plans for the project.
Biggs Cardosa Associates, Inc. proposes to provide the following scope of services to redesign 
the micropiles under the wet well of the Coyote PS:

Review final location and number of micropiles under the wet well of the Coyote PS 
provided by the Contractor.

Update SAFE model for the new number and location of the micropiles under the wet 
well mat slab of the Coyote PS.

Obtain updated micropile demand axial forces.

Check if previous capacity of the micropiles provided in approved structural plans for the 
wet well mat slab is still sufficient for the updated demand axial forces of the micropiles.

Obtain updated demand moments and shear forces in the mat slab of the Coyote PS.

Check if flexural reinforcement for the mat slab shown in the approved structural plans is 
till sufficient.

Check if punching shear for mat slab is still acceptable.

Assemble and provide, signed and stamped, structural calculations to S&W documenting 
work performed by BCA to check new number and location of micropiles.
Deliverables:

One (1) electronic set of deliverables noted above in PDF file format
207 of 214

--- page 208 ---
M:\2014\215\100 Project Control\112 Contract\ASR#3\Coyote PS - Proposal for Redesign of Wet Well 
Micropiles_ASR#3_BCA_12-22-20.docx
ADDITIONAL SERVICES:
Although the CONSULTANT has tried to be comprehensive in developing this scope of work, 
there may be unforeseen issues, which will necessitate additional services beyond the scope of 
work described herein.  Specific items described in the engineering services may require 
additional investigations, calculations, plans, or measures than what was scoped in this proposal. 
It is recommended that the CLIENT include some budget in the contract to account for 
unexpected additional services.
ASSUMPTIONS:
1.
Structural scope of services is limited to the structural elements and tasks outlined above. 
Design of additional elements or additional submittals can be provided as extra work.
2.
Documents will be submitted electronically in PDF format.
Biggs Cardosa Associates, Inc. proposes to provide the additional scope of services outlined in 
this proposal for a time and materials fee including expenses as follows:

$4,440 Direct Labor
Please sign below and return to our office to authorize work to continue on this project.  Should 
you have any questions, please do not hesitate to call.
Sincerely,
BIGGS CARDOSA
ASSOCIATES, INC.
AGREED TO BY:________________________________
 
           Schaaf & Wheeler
            
                   
 
Anthony P. Notaro
DATE:_________________________________________
Associate
208 of 214

--- page 209 ---
1
COYOTE PUMP STATION
SAN MATEO, CA - DESIGN FEE ESTIMATE - ASR#3
 
 
File:
Coyote PS - Fee Breakdown for Redesign of Wet Well Micropiles_ASR#3_BCA_12-22-20.xls
12/22/20
Biggs Cardosa Associates
PRINC
ASSOC
ENG
SENIOR
DRAF-
 
MGR
 ENG
TER
ADMIN
TOTAL
TOTAL
ASR#3
$300
$224
$195
$175
$140
$100
HOURS
BUDGET
Task 1 Check Wet Wel Micropiles
Structural Drawings
0
0
12
12
0
0
24
$4,440
Structural Calculations
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
$0
Reimbursables
.
$0
SUB. TOTAL HOURS:
0
0
12
12
0
0
24
SUB. TOTAL COSTS:
$0
$0
$2,340
$2,100
$0
$0
 
$4,440
REIMBURSABLE COSTS:
$0
TOTAL BCA (ASR#3) COSTS:
$4,440
 
209 of 214

--- page 210 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4581
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
May 03, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act of 2021 – Letter of Support
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the letter of support to Representative Jackie Speier for HR 2307: The Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act 
of 2021 and authorize the Mayor to sign the letter on behalf of City Council.
BACKGROUND:
At its April 19, 2021 City Council regular meeting, Council Member Rick Bonilla, under Reports and Announcements, 
requested that a letter of support be brought forward for Council consideration at the next meeting with regard to HR 
2307: The Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act of 2021. 
In 2018, the Sustainability Commission was approached by the Citizens Climate Lobby (CCL), an international grassroots 
environmental group that trains and supports volunteers to build relationships with their elected representatives in order 
to influence climate policy. The CCL supports putting a price on carbon emissions by enacting a market-based, revenue 
neutral carbon emissions fee. The Sustainability Commission requested the Legislative Committee for City Council to 
consider adoption of a resolution calling upon Congress to take action on a carbon fee and dividend. In November 2018, 
the City Council adopted a resolution in support of the carbon fee and dividend.
In October 2019, the City Council approved a letter of support to Rep. Jackie Speier for HR 763 (Deutch): The Energy 
Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act of 2019, which contained elements of the resolution the City adopted in 2018. HR 763 
did not pass in the 116th Congress, but Rep. Deutch has now reintroduced the bill as HR 2307: The Energy Innovation and 
Carbon Dividend Act of 2021. A letter of support to Rep. Jackie Speier reaffirms the City’s support of the carbon fee and 
dividend approach and commitment to our climate goals.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no fiscal impact for taking this action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in the 
environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Letter of Support
210 of 214

--- page 211 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7007
211 of 214

--- page 212 ---
April 21, 2021
The Honorable Jackie Speier
U.S. House of Representatives
2465 Rayburn House Office Building
Washington, D.C.  20515
Dear Representative Speier,
I am writing to express the City of San Mateo’s support for H.R. 2307 (Deutch), the Energy Innovation and Carbon 
Dividend Act of 2021.  This bipartisan legislation would impose a fee on products that contribute to climate change, 
such as crude oil, gasoline and other products with carbon content. The City supported the passage of H.R. 763: The 
Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act of 2019 that did not pass in the 116th Congress. Rep. Deutch has now 
reintroduced the bill as H.R. 2307: The Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act of 2021 and this letter reaffirms 
the City’s support of this important climate legislation.
Addressing the negative environmental, public health, and economic impacts of climate change has been a critical 
priority of our City Council. The state of California has been a tremendous leader in mitigating the impacts of climate 
change by supporting legislation that would reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote renewable technologies. 
In alignment with the State’s leadership on climate issues, the City of San Mateo adopted an updated Climate Action 
Plan in 2020 and adopted a local green building amendment that required all new nonresidential construction install 
solar in 2019. In addition to state and local efforts we know that federal action is necessary to adequately address the 
global causes and impacts of climate change.
H.R. 2307 is consistent with the City of San Mateo’s Climate Action Plan, which includes goals to achieve deep 
greenhouse gas emissions reductions by 2030 and 2050 in order to ensure a safe, healthy planet for our residents. 
Thank you for your consideration of this important matter.
Sincerely,
Eric Rodriguez
Mayor
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
    
OFFICE OF THE COUNCIL MEMBER
    
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403-1338
                                                     www.cityofsanmateo.org  
(650) 522-7040
212 of 214

--- page 213 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4590
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
May 03, 2021 
SUBJECT:
COVID-19 Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-19, confirm rules and regulations issued by 
the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in response to declared emergency, and confirm the need 
for a continued local declaration of emergency. 
BACKGROUND:
On March 4, 2020, the Governor proclaimed a state of emergency in response to the outbreak of respiratory illness due to 
a novel coronavirus now referred to as COVID-19. As a consequence of this proclamation the City Manager, acting as the 
City’s Director of Emergency Services, was authorized to make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably 
related to the protection of life and property as affected by such emergency. 
The City Council declared a local health emergency on March 16, 2020. In addition to positioning the City for potential 
mutual aid and cost recovery opportunities, the emergency proclamation also provides the City Manager broader 
authority to be able to expeditiously address issues related to the emergency. With that said, actions taken by the City 
Manager outside of the general authority of the duties provided for in the City Charter are subject to confirmation by 
Council as soon as practicable. 
State and local emergency proclamations are still in effect, and currently the State is under the “Blueprint for a Safer 
Economy” framework for determining restrictions on businesses and activities. San Mateo County has been in the orange 
tier (moderate COVID-19 transmission) since March 17th. In the orange tier, some indoor business operations are open 
with modifications, including capacity restrictions.
The continued risk of COVID-19 transmission necessitates the continued exercise of extraordinary emergency powers to 
respond to the impacts of this public health crisis. Staff requests that the City Council explicitly confirm the need for 
continuing the declared local emergency. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for receiving this informational report.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
213 of 214

--- page 214 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Drew Corbett, City Manager
dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7002
214 of 214