--- page 1 ---
Date:
Fri, 30 Jul 2021 6:40:09 PM (UTC)
Sent:
Fri, 30 Jul 2021 6:39:21 PM (UTC)
Subject: Better real-time alerts + product enhancements
From:
Flock Safety Product Team <noreply@flocksafety.com >
To:
Phaymany Syvongxay <psyvongxay@cityofsanmateo.org >;
Hot List alerts without a plate, a playbook for catalytic 
converter theft, Axon Fleet 3 integration updates, and more!
Email not displaying correctly?
View it in your browser.
July 2021
Product Release Digest
This monthly update will keep you informed about all the latest product 
improvements and releases to ensure you get the most out of your agency’s 
partnership with Flock Safety. 
No license plate number? No problem.
Now, you can use Saved Search with our
Vehicle Fingerprint ™ technology for Hot
List alerts.
Automate real-time notifications for
suspect vehicles with Saved Search. Alert
officers when vehicles with a specific

--- page 2 ---
build, make, color, and other unique
features (i.e., bumper stickers, bike racks,
etc.) pass a Flock Safety camera within a
particular timeframe. Even without a plate
number, you can still receive the latest
insights on suspect vehicles without
repeating your search query.
Log in for a click-by-click walkthrough >>
Teamwork makes the dream work.
Consolidate footage from Flock Safety’s
Falcon ™ fixed cameras and Axon’s Fleet
3 mobile ALPR in one platform.
We recently announced an update to our
integration with Axon that allows you to
search footage from your network of Flock
Safety Falcon™ fixed ALPR cameras and
Axon Fleet 3 mobile ALPR cameras in
Flock Safety’s Lookup tool. Maximize your
ALPR coverage with a combination of
Axon Fleet 3 camera systems for patrol
cars and Flock Safety fixed cameras for
neighborhoods and perimeters while
managing evidence in one pane of view.
Learn more about the integration here >>

--- page 3 ---
Educational Webinar | Stop Catalytic
 Converter Theft
Get the playbook for defeating catalytic
converter theft in your city.
On Thursday, July 29th, Sgt. Kevin Cox
led an educational webinar on defeating
catalytic converter theft with Flock Safety.
During his tenure with the Grand Prairie
Police Department, he and his colleagues
wrote the playbook for stifling catalytic
converter theft with ALPR and used the
evidence and data collected in the
process to enact meaningful policy
change.
Get the recording and playbook for
defeating catalytic converter theft in your
city>>
How Redlands Police Approaches
Data-Driven Law Enforcement
Redlands PD has a long history of
innovation — this mid-sized agency was
the first in the country to equip its officers
with smartphones in the early 2000s. Chief

--- page 4 ---
Chris Catren and Assistant Chief Travis
Martinez share how they use GPS
Trackers, LPR cameras, and data to solve
crime in an objective, ethical manner.
Watch our interview with Redlands Police
Department >>
Did you know that Flock Safety can help
generate positive press for your agency?
Reach out to media@flocksafety.com  to
learn more.
Flock Safety, 1170 Howell Mill Rd NW, Suite 210, Atlanta, Georgia 30318, United States
 
unsubscribe from all emails   update subscription preferences