Woodland City Council approves contract extension with Flock Safety – Daily Democrat Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 85°F Friday, July 3rd 2026 e-Edition Home Page World Cup 2026 News Local News Business News Alerts Crime and Public Safety Courts Agriculture Marijuana Education Health Housing Transportation California News Sports Sports Local Sports High School Sports Athlete of the Week UC Davis Aggies Oakland Athletics Raiders San Francisco 49ers San Francisco Giants San Jose Sharks Golden State Warriors Lifestyle Lifestyle Pets of the Week Entertainment Home & Garden Movies Restaurants Food and Drink Comics Puzzles Events Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Opinion Opinion Columnists Editorials Letters to the Editor Branded Content Paid Content by Brandpoint Advertising Advertise with us A&E Source Local Guide Jobs Real Estate Today’s Ads Special Sections Advertising Articles Public Notices 2025 Best of Magazine Subscribe Log In Logout Sign up for email newsletters Sign Up Woodland City Council approves contract… Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Print (Opens in new window) Print Subscribe Log In Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Sign up for email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Loading... Search 85°F Friday, July 3rd 2026 e-Edition Latest Headlines World Cup 2026 News Sports Lifestyle Obituaries Opinion Advertise e-Edition A&E Source 2025 Best of Magazine Trending: World Cup 2026 Woodland Christian girls basketball team wins 19th straight game after non-league clash against Rodriguez Woodland Joint Unified School District hosts tour for parent leaders, highlighting ‘badly needed’ improvements Davis Musical Theatre Company holding auditions for Young Performers’ Theatre, main stage | Center Stage Yolo County blood drives, Woodland rebates and utility assistance available | Just Business Latest Headlines Woodland City Council approves contract extension with Flock Safety Council unanimously approves contract, raising concerns from community Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Print (Opens in new window) Print An automated license plate reader at the intersection of County Road 98 and Gibson Road is one of 26 license plate-reading systems in the city of Woodland provided by Flock Safety. (Carlos Guerrero/Daily Democrat) By Taylor Heeden | theeden@dailydemocrat.com PUBLISHED: February 6, 2026 at 7:30 AM PST Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... Earlier this week, the Woodland City Council unanimously approved a contract extension with Flock Safety, a company that provides automated license plate reader (ALPR) cameras to police and private communities, despite concerns raised by some members of the public. The Woodland Police Department has used the Flock Safety system for more than 6 years, according to the memo included in the agenda items for Tuesday night’s council meeting. Flock Safety has come under scrutiny nationwide after a state audit in Illinois found that the company was facilitating access for U.S. Customs and Border Protection, in violation of Illinois law. In California, Attorney General Rob Bonta recently sued the city of El Cajon for using Flock to illegally share information across state lines. This has led many municipalities across the Golden State to terminate their contracts with Flock, including Santa Cruz, Los Altos, and Mountain View, citing concerns about the company’s approach to privacy and its use of collected data. The two-year contract extension would cost the city $300,000. Although such extensions typically pass with blanket approval on the consent agenda, it was pulled aside so the council could discuss privacy concerns, particularly for the local immigrant community. “We don’t want our data to be misused and target our community,” said Mayor Pro Tempore Mayra Vega. Woodland Police Department Chief Ryan Kinnan answered questions from the council about who has access to Woodland’s 26-camera license plate-reading system. He said that at the Woodland Police Department, Flock is used only for criminal investigations, and state agencies can access it with permission. “We do not provide ICE any information,” said Chief Kinnan. “Our network is limited to us, in-house. The way it works under state law, we are allowed to share with police agencies in California. What we are not allowed to do is share with agencies outside of California.” He noted there is an active audit into Flock and who can access their information. Multiple residents signed up to speak for public comment, including Jolene Gendrick, who urged the council to vote no on extending the contract. “This is an overstep, in my opinion, of people’s rights,” Gendrick said. After over an hour of discussion and public comment, the council voted unanimously to grant the extension. A contributing factor in Tuesday’s vote was connected to a contractual agreement the city made with its four cannabis dispensaries — rather than using on-site security, dispensaries could instead utilize the Flock cameras and law enforcement as additional surveillance. Each dispensary would pay the city $20,000 per year, increasing the municipality’s revenue by $160,000 over two years. The contract extension during Tuesday’s meeting transferred the funds paid by those dispensaries to the general fund. From there, the money would then be allocated to the police department’s annual budget. More information on the contract is available on the city of Woodland’s website at https://woodlandca.portal.civicclerk.com/event/2414/files/report/5905. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Print (Opens in new window) Print Most Popular Most Popular Free home air purifiers available through Yolo-Solano Air District Free home air purifiers available through Yolo-Solano Air District Mike Grier confident new deals make Sharks better despite “some risk” Mike Grier confident new deals make Sharks better despite “some risk” Column: Enjoy the Fourth of July by being mindful of history Column: Enjoy the Fourth of July by being mindful of history Yolo Land Trust urges for protected funding for farmland conservation Yolo Land Trust urges for protected funding for farmland conservation Yolo County supervisors appoint Melinda Aiello as DA Yolo County supervisors appoint Melinda Aiello as DA Court filing reveals President Trump spoke to Live Nation CEO before antitrust case was settled Court filing reveals President Trump spoke to Live Nation CEO before antitrust case was settled Magnitude 5.6 earthquake rattles Mendocino County Magnitude 5.6 earthquake rattles Mendocino County Yolo County responds to grand jury report on Esparto explosion Yolo County responds to grand jury report on Esparto explosion More in News Leticia Castillo: Sacramento passed a failed budget, and now they’re raising your gas prices again Jon Coupal: Another green mandate that could cost you more Davis Musical Theater Company’s ‘RENT’ review Dan Walters: Newsom and California legislators claim the budget is balanced. They need a reality check 2026 February 6 Subscribe e-Edition Sign Up For Newsletters Contact Us Announcement Forms Work With Us Special Sections Customer Service Digital Subscription FAQ Accessibility Privacy Policy Sitemap Advertise With Us MediaNews Group Advertising Today’s Ads Public Notices Local Guide North Valley Jobs Real Estate Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright 2026 Daily Democrat. All rights reserved. The use of any content on this website for the purpose of training artificial intelligence systems, algorithms, machine learning models, text and data mining, or similar use is strictly prohibited without explicit written consent. Close