Transparency Portal
Visit Flock
San Diego CA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Thu Jul 16 2026

OVERVIEW

The San Diego Police Department uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. San Diego Police utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, San Diego Police utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

POLICIES

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by San Diego CA PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

The following uses of ALPRs shall be expressly prohibited:

- To invade the privacy of individuals or observe areas where a reasonable expectation of
privacy exists.
- To be used in a discriminatory manner and to target protected individual characteristics, including race, color, ethnicity, religion, national origin, age, disability, gender (to include gender identity and gender expression), lifestyle, sexual orientation, or similar personal characteristics, in accordance with Department Policy 9.33.
- To harass, intimidate, or discriminate against any individual or group.
- To violate any Constitutional rights, federal, state, or local laws (e.g., California Values Act, FACE Act, etc.)
- To be utilized for any personal purpose.
- To investigate parking violations and conduct traffic enforcement.
- To indiscriminately view video without investigative or administrative need.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
USAGE

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

External organizations with access - None

Organizations granted access to San Diego CA PD data.

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

3,981,760

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

14,131

Number of Owned Cameras

500

Access to external organizations

None
ADDITIONAL INFO

SDPD Automated License Plate Recognition (ALPR) Documentation

www.sandiego.gov/police/technology/ALPR

Provided by Flock Safety