Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock
San Diego CA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Mon Aug 31 2026

Overview

The San Diego Police Department uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. San Diego Police utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, San Diego Police utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

3,987,460

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

3,583

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

14,804

External organizations with access - None

Organizations granted access to San Diego CA PD data.

San Diego CA PD is not sharing data with any partner networks.
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

The Department recognizes the importance of balancing public safety benefits with privacy and accountability. Accordingly, the operation of and access to ALPR data shall be for legitimate law enforcement purposes only.

Legitimate law enforcement purposes include, but are not limited to:

• Locating vehicles that are stolen, wanted, under investigation, or associated with suspects, witnesses, or victims of a violent crime.

• Enhancing coordinated responses to critical incidents and public threats (e.g., active shooter, terrorism events).

Safeguarding community members by locating at-risk missing persons, including through Amber, Silver, and Feather Alerts.

The Department will not integrate additional technologies, including facial recognition or gunshot detection, into ALPRs.

When the ALPR system alerts a user that a vehicle is wanted, stolen, or of interest to law enforcement, the user must:

(1) Visually confirm that the ALPR system read the plate properly and that the state of origin is consistent with the alert.

(2) Confirm the alert status of the license plate information via the National Crime Information Center database. Access the database through a secure device (e.g., vehicle laptop, cellular phone, desktop computer, etc.) or request the check through dispatch.


Data is owned by San Diego CA PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

The following uses of ALPRs shall be expressly prohibited:

• To invade the privacy of individuals or observe areas where a reasonable expectation of privacy exists.
• To be used in a discriminatory manner and to target protected individual characteristics, including race, color, ethnicity, religion, national origin, age, disability, gender (to include gender identity and gender expression), lifestyle, sexual orientation, or similar personal characteristics, in accordance with Department Policy 9.33.
• To harass, intimidate, or discriminate against any individual or group.
• To violate any Constitutional rights, federal, state, or local laws (e.g., SB 34, California Values Act, AB 1242, etc.)
• To be utilized for any personal purpose.
• To investigate parking violations or conduct traffic enforcement.
• To view ALPR images or data without investigative or administrative need.


Access Policy

The San Diego Police Department shall designate in writing the personnel authorized to have access to the system, and the designation shall ensure that their access to and use of the images and data complies with federal, state, and local laws, including the TRUST Ordinance, as well as applicable Department procedures.

Personnel using ALPR technology shall be specifically trained in its operation and authorized by the Chief of Police or their designee. Authorized users include personnel listed in Department Procedure 1.51. The Department may grant access to supervisory staff of authorized users (i.e., sergeants, lieutenants, and captains) to ensure users comply with the Use Policy and Department Procedure.

Recorded data and images may be reviewed in accordance with the following criteria:

• By a Department employee conducting an official investigation.
• By members of the City Attorney’s Office or Risk Management in connection with pending litigation.
• Pursuant to lawful process or by court personnel otherwise authorized to view evidence in a related case.
• As part of Department-approved training.

Authorized users under investigation for misconduct or criminal actions related to ALPR shall have their access revoked for the duration of the investigation and shall not have access restored until they have been cleared of wrongdoing.


Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human-verified prior to action.
More Info

SDPD Automated License Plate Recognition (ALPR) Documentation

www.sandiego.gov/police/technology/ALPR

Number of Owned Cameras

500

Access to external organizations

None

Provided by Flock Safety