source: packet.pdf
sha256: 53d24b19d5c2e207fa1a8438f8f78c9c5c38414bae9962b76df139f994321fa6
pages: 5
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
January 3, 2023
6:00 PM
Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Adam Loraine
Rob Newsom Jr.
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: January 3, 2023
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 845 2874 9446      Passcode: 238162
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
 
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the consideration of these items. Following the meeting a report of action
from Closed Session will be provided if required.
1.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9) Name of Case: Karolyn Franklin v. City of
San Mateo., San Mateo Superior Court Case No.: 22-CIV00807
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
2.
City Council Goal Setting - Process Revisions
Review the current City Council goal setting process and provide feedback on the proposed revisions to the
Strategic Plan process.
CEQA: This City Council strategic plan meeting is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
1 of 5

--- page 2 ---
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 5

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 22-7038
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
January 03, 2023 
SUBJECT:
City Council Goal Setting - Process Revisions
RECOMMENDATION:
Review the current City Council goal setting process and provide feedback on the proposed revisions to the Strategic Plan 
process. 
BACKGROUND:
The City Council goal-setting process includes a three-step deliberation resulting in the adoption of a Strategic Plan that 
identifies City Council priorities and allows for multi-year resource planning. The Blue Sky workshop, scheduled for 
February 11, 2023, represents the first step of the process.  At the workshop, the City Council will review the current 
Strategic Plan (available on the City’s website) and recommend items for addition and removal. 
Following the workshop, staff develops a proposed workplan for each recommended objective in the Strategic Plan and 
identifies the resource requirements for review at a regular City Council meeting. At this meeting, the City Council takes 
public comment on the proposed Strategic Plan and recommends revisions based on the public comment and resource 
requirements. The final Strategic Plan is then brought back to the City Council to approve as a consent calendar item in 
April and is used to develop the City’s Business Plan.  In the past few years, staff has also brought forward a mid-cycle 
review of the Strategic Plan in the early fall to highlight progress on each objective and to identify any new items that have 
come up since the plan was adopted.
Since the City adopted this new process in 2018, the number of objectives included in the Strategic Plan has increased 
each year from roughly 30 to the current total of 55. Included with these objectives are lower priority items that are 
intended to be completed in future years as well as items that are part of City’s general operations. To streamline the 
process and better highlight City Council priorities, staff is recommending the following changes to the structure of the 
plan:
•
Removing Priority Levels - Since staff does not actively work on priorities that do not have an “A” priority level, 
staff recommends removing priority levels from the Strategic Plan and no longer tracking items to be worked on in 
future years. 
•
Eliminating Operational Priorities - A significant number of the priorities included in the current Strategic Plan are 
embedded into the City’s day-to-day operations. An example of this is Priority #23, “Leverage technology in 
support of safe and secure neighborhoods” which refers to the use of technology in the operations of the Police 
Department. Staff recommends that the Strategic Plan focus on special initiatives and not include operational 
items. 
3 of 5

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
Reorganizing Objectives – The current Strategic Plan is organized into Council Focus Areas and Strategic Initiative 
categories. This structure has not played any role in the City Council deliberation process. Staff instead 
recommends recategorizing priorities based on the length of time it will take to complete a priority, such as 
immediate term items (completion within the fiscal year), medium term (completion within 2-5 years), and long-
term initiatives. Organizing items based on the length of time required to complete them will assist with weighing 
resource requirements across items.
Proposed Blue Sky Meeting Process
In order to facilitate the discussion at the Blue Sky Workshop, staff will evaluate the list of current objectives and assign 
them into 3 categories:
1.
Objectives Recommended for Removal – Staff will recommend objectives for removal that have either been 
completed or are already embedded in the City’s operations.
2.
Objectives Recommended to Remain – Staff will identify objectives that are strongly recommended to remain due 
to them either being legal mandates or items where a significant amount of resources have been dedicated to 
date and stopping work would result in the loss of that resource investment. Examples of these objectives include 
the completion of the General Plan Update and the Clean Water Program.
3.
All Other Priorities – The remaining priorities will all be in this final group. This group includes some priorities 
where initial work has begun as well as other priorities that have not yet been initiated.  City Council guidance will 
be requested for which of these priorities the Council may wish to remove from the Strategic Plan. 
In addition to evaluating the current year’s Strategic Plan, the City Council will have the opportunity, per the usual process, 
to bring forward new objectives for consideration to be included in the updated Strategic Plan. Agreement from at least 
two other Council members is required for the item to be added to the list.  Staff is requesting these items be submitted in 
advance of the meeting date in order to provide a preliminary evaluation of the resource requirements prior to the Blue 
Sky Workshop. This will better inform the conversation by allowing the City Council to make trade-offs based on the 
resource requirements. 
New objectives recommended by City Councilmembers should be focused on new initiatives or policies. The objective 
should focus on the issue and staff will identify a proposed work plan to address it. For example, priority # 53 regarding the 
elimination of the unfunded pension liabilities is a high-level policy issue and staff has provided recommended actions to 
address the objective. 
Important Dates:
Below are important dates to help prepare the City Council for the start of the Goal Setting Process. 
•
City Council Priorities Proposal – Due January 18, 2023
•
Agenda Packet for Blue Sky Workshop – Published on February 3, 2023
•
Blue Sky Workshop – February 11, 2023
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this agenda item. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This City Council strategic plan meeting is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative 
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
4 of 5

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
No Attachments
STAFF CONTACT
Denise Garcia, Management Analyst II
dgarcia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7003
5 of 5