source: packet.pdf
sha256: 5e25b7047d0d2f528077b86945369138482f25b14fb275ca1b8849baa5c0116b
pages: 509
ocr_pages: 26
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
April 18, 2022
7:00 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rick Bonilla, Mayor
Diane Papan, Deputy Mayor
Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Eric Rodriguez
REVISED AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNMENT CODE 54943(b)(3) / AB361 (2021) –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: Monday, April 18, 2022 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 856 8600 8274
Passcode: 566861
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CEREMONIAL
1.
Ramadan Observance
2.
Andrew A. Cresci – Commendatory Resolution
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
3.
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meeting of April 4, 2022.
4.
Ordinance Adoption – Sign Code Amendments
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Title 25, “Signs” by updating definitions, revising
regulations for signs in the public right of way, clarifying the permissible number and dimensions of signs, and
making other miscellaneous changes.
5.
Remote Teleconferenced City Council and Commission Meetings – Reauthorization
Adopt a Resolution to reauthorize remote teleconferenced City Council and Board and Commission meetings for
30 days, through May 18, 2022, as allowed by Assembly Bill 361 amending the Brown Act, based upon the
Governor’s emergency proclamation and findings that meeting in person would present imminent risks to the
health or safety of attendees.
1 of 509

--- page 2 ---
6.
US 101/State Route 92 Area Improvement and Multimodal Project – Letter of Support
Authorize Mayor Bonilla to send a letter of support on behalf of the City of San Mateo to Congresswoman Speier
for the San Mateo County Transportation Authority's request for Community Project Funding.
7.
On-Call Traffic Engineering Data Collection Services – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with Innovative Data Acquisitions, LLC dba IDAX Data Solutions for
on-call traffic engineering data collection services in the amount of $110,000 for a new agreement total of an
amount not to exceed $200,000, extend the term of the agreement, authorize the Public Works Director to
execute term extension amendments within the agreement amount, and authorize the Public Works Director to
execute Amendment No. 1 in substantially the form approved.
8.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Immediate Action Projects, Package II – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 5 to the agreement with Stantec Consulting Services, Inc., to provide professional
design services and engineering services during construction for Immediate Action Projects Package II in the
amount of $88,673.46, revising the total agreement amount not to exceed $1,562,403.46, extend the term
through September 15, 2022, and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially
the form presented.
9.
Rodder Truck and Vac-Con Truck – Purchase Contracts
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and approve a contract with National Auto
Fleet Group for the purchase of one Rodder Truck from Nixon-Egli Equipment Company for $271,665.51 and one
Vac-Con Combination Sewer and Storm Drain Cleaner from Vac-Con Inc. for $588,981.10, for a total purchase
amount of $860,646.61, and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the purchase contracts in
substantially the form presented.
10.
Program for Arterial System Synchronization Fiscal Year 2021-22 Cycle – Funding Agreement
Approve a Joint Funding Agreement with Metropolitan Transportation Commission for the Program for Arterial
System Synchronization Fiscal Year 2021-22 Cycle, approve matching funds from the City in the amount of $7,747,
and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the Agreement in substantially the form approved.
11.
Central Park Seasonal Ice Rink – Agreement
Approve a five-year zero cost / zero revenue license agreement with On Ice LLC to operate a seasonal ice rink in
Central Park and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the agreement in substantially the
form presented.
12.
San Mateo Public Library Foundation Operating Lease – Amendment
Approve an amendment to the Property Lease and Operating Agreement with the San Mateo Public Library
Foundation to extend the lease for an additional year commencing retroactively to April 1, 2022 through March
31, 2023, and authorize the City Librarian to execute the amendment.
13.
San Mateo City Employees' Association Memorandum of Understanding – Amendment
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the San Mateo City Employees'
Association for salary increases and a term through June 22, 2024.
14.
General Fund Unassigned Fund Balance – Commitment Approval
Adopt a Resolution to authorize the commitment of $5,500,000 of General Fund unassigned fund balance for
negotiated increases to employee compensation and $4,500,000 for capital improvement projects.
2 of 509

--- page 3 ---
15.
Mack E. Mickelson Arthritis and Rehabilitation Center Therapy Pool – Resolution in Support
Adopt a Resolution to call upon Sutter Health to reopen the Mack E. Mickelson Arthritis and Rehabilitation Center
Therapy Pool located at the Mills Health Center in San Mateo for community use.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
OLD BUSINESS
16.
General Plan Update – Selection of the Preferred Land Use and Circulation Scenario
Approve a preferred land use and circulation scenario and direct staff to finalize the land use and circulation maps
that will go into the draft General Plan Update.
PUBLIC HEARING
City Council action on the following public hearing(s) represents a final decision concluding all administrative proceedings. Judicial
review may be had only if a petition is filed with the Court not later than the 90th day following the date the decision is made. Judicial
review of environmental determinations may be subject to a time period for litigation as short as 30 days following the date the
decision is made.
17.
Fiscal Year 2022-23 Comprehensive Fee Schedule – Approval
Adopt a Resolution to approve the revisions to the proposed fiscal year 2022-23 Comprehensive Fee Schedule.
NEW BUSINESS
18.
Ordinance Introduction – Military Equipment Policy
Introduce an Ordinance to establish a Military Equipment Policy in accordance with state law.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and
you will be called on at the appropriate time.
3 of 509

--- page 4 ---
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and
provide your comments.
(continued)
4 of 509

--- page 5 ---
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
5 of 509

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5759-04
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
April 18, 2022 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meetings of April 4, 2022.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Minutes 2022-04-04 Special
Att 2 – Minutes 2022-04-04 Regular
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
6 of 509

--- page 7 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 04/04/2022
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rick Bonilla, Mayor
Diane Papan, Deputy Mayor
Amourence Lee
Joe Goethals
Eric Rodriguez
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
April 4, 2022
Remote 5:30 PM
Special Meeting
CALL TO ORDER - This meeting was held pursuant to authorization from Government Code 54943(b)(3) / AB361 (2021) 
in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to participate virtually due to the Covid-19 health 
emergency.
Roll Call
Remote:
Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Members: Lee, Goethals and Rodriguez
STUDY SESSION 
1.
Sewer Rate Study – Initial Findings
Matt Fabry, Deputy Public Works Director, provided a brief explanation of the sewer rates fund, operating 
programs, and capital improvements; an overview of the Clean Water Program; and the status of capacity 
improvements. A list of future needs was shared regarding operations, maintenance, and capital improvements. 
He then introduced Alex Handlers, Principal and Vice President of Bartle Wells to make the presentation. Mr. 
Handlers explained the background on the rates and preliminary funding and displayed a survey of single family 
residential monthly sewer charges which showed sewer charges to be in the middle range. He pointed out the City 
has been successful in getting a large amount of the Clean Water Program financed with low interest rate loans 
creating savings for the City and rate payers. He stated the past rate increases have put the City in a good position.
Council Members asked questions of the presenters.
Public Comment – there were no speakers.
Council agreed that the Wastewater Treatment Plant requires increased maintenance staff to operate the new 
plant; inflationary level rate increases for 2023 would be necessary through the Prop 218 noticing process; and 
Council supports a multi-year rate setting. Council thanked staff for the excellent presentation and expressed 
great appreciation for the hard work put in to ensure that the City and rate payers will reap the benefit of great 
savings.
2.
Diversity Equity and Inclusion Task Force – Updates 
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager, made the presentation which included the background on the formation 
of the Diversity Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Task Force that was part of the 2021-22 City Council Strategic Plan. Staff 
reached out to 20 various organizations in the community. Three meetings have been held thus far with 14 
community organizations currently participating on the task force. Members of the task force expressed the need 
for more direction from the City in order to become a viable entity that can develop actionable recommendations 
and bring about change. Staff is suggesting a consultant be hired with an anticipated cost of $50K to help facilitate 
the development of a DEI Strategic Plan framework which would provide direction to the task force. If this concept 
is approved, the task force will return to Council for final review and approval of this newly developed strategic 
plan. Council Members asked questions.
Public Comment – Lisa Taner commented she was glad to hear we can still add members and voiced concerns 
about more geographic representation citywide on the task force. 
7 of 509

--- page 8 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 04/04/2022
Page 2
Council comments included pursuing outreach to San Mateo Homeowners United Association which may be 
helpful in getting participation from the underrepresented neighborhoods that do not have well developed 
neighborhood associations; City Services graduates and CERT program participants could be a good source for 
additional participants; the size of the task force can be problematic if it gets too large but there was interest in 
considering adding individuals rather than organizations; and the Boys and Girls Club could be an organization to 
reach out to as it is located on the east side of San Mateo.
CLOSED SESSION 
Following the opportunity for public comment, there were no speakers, the City Council convened into Closed Session at 
6:38 p.m. to consider:
3.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Anticipated Litigation
Initiation of litigation pursuant to paragraph (4) of subdivision (d) of Section 54956.9: One case
Reconvened into open session at 7:00 p.m. City Attorney Prasanna Rasiah reported that City Council unanimously 
approved the initiation of litigation and particulars will be disclosed upon inquiry after the action has been formerly 
commenced pursuant to State law.
ADJOURNMENT – The meeting adjourned at 7:01 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Rick Bonilla, Mayor                                                   
Joan Diskin, Deputy City Clerk
8 of 509

--- page 9 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 04/04/2022
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rick Bonilla, Mayor
Diane Papan, Deputy Mayor
Amourence Lee
Joe Goethals
Eric Rodriguez
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
April 4, 2022
Remote 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER - This meeting was held pursuant to authorization from Government Code 54943(b)(3) / AB361 (2021) 
in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to participate virtually due to the Covid-19 health 
emergency.
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Remote: Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Members: Lee, Goethals and Rodriguez
CEREMONIAL
1.
National Poetry Month – Aileen Cassinetto accepted the proclamation
2.
National Public Safety Telecommunicators Week – Police Chief Barberini; Marie Silva, Police Technical Services 
Administrator
3.
Fair Housing Month
 - Carole Conn, Executive Director of Project Sentinel
CONSENT CALENDAR
The following items, 4 through 7 and 9 through 21 were considered to be routine by the City Council. Items 8 and 22 were 
removed to be considered separately. After the titles of the items were read by the City Clerk, the public was invited to 
comment and there were no speakers. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Goethals, Seconded: Rodriguez
Ayes: 
Bonilla, Papan, Lee, Goethals and Rodriguez
Noes: 
None
4.
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meeting of March 21, 2022. 
5.
Ordinance Adoption – Disposable Food Service Ware Code Amendment
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 5.89 "Disposable Food Service 
Ware" to align with the new State laws.
Enactment:  Ordinance No. 2022-03
6.
Remote Teleconferenced City Council and Commission Meetings – Reauthorization
Adopt a Resolution to reauthorize remote teleconferenced City Council and Board and Commission 
meetings for 30 days, through May 4, 2022, as allowed by Assembly Bill 361 amending the Brown Act, 
based upon the Governor’s emergency proclamation and findings that meeting in person would present 
imminent risks to the health or safety of attendees.
9 of 509

--- page 10 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 04/04/2022
Page 2
Enactment:  Resolution No. 36 (2022)
7.
Delaware Street Relief Sewer and Underground Flow Equalization System – Interagency Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the Service Agreement with the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board 
for the Delaware Street Relief Sewer and Underground Flow Equalization System projects in the 
estimated amount of $11,210, for a total agreement estimate of $144,258.96; and authorize the Mayor 
to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented.
9.
Wastewater Treatment Plant SCADA Monitoring and Upgrade – Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure for an agreement with Technology 
Management Professionals dba TMPros to monitor, upgrade, and maintain the Supervisory Control and 
Data Acquisition (SCADA) system at the Wastewater Treatment Plant in the amount of $27,400 and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 37 (2022)
10.
Downtown San Mateo Grade Separations Project – Grant Funding
Adopt a Resolution to authorize an application for the Rebuilding American Infrastructure with 
Sustainability and Equity Grant Program to fund the development of a project study report, preliminary 
engineering plans, and environmental planning documents to assess the Downtown San Mateo Grade 
Separations Project.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 38 (2022)
11.
City-wide Operations Management System – Purchase Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure for a three-year renewal of a 
purchasing agreement with Cartegraph Systems, LLC for software subscription, cloud hosting, and 
technical support in the amount of $354,760, and authorize the Director of Information Technology to 
execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 39 (2022)
12.
Service Employees International Union Local 521 Maintenance Unit – Memorandum of Understanding 
Amendment
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the Service Employees 
International Union (SEIU) Local 521 Maintenance Unit for salary increases and a term through June 22, 
2024.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 40 (2022)
13.
San Mateo Police Sergeants’ Association – Memorandum of Understanding Amendment
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the San Mateo Police Sergeants’ 
Association for a term through June 22, 2024.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 41 (2022)
14.
Local Agency Investment Fund – Investment Authorization
Adopt a Resolution to authorize investment of monies in the Local Agency Investment Fund.
10 of 509

--- page 11 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 04/04/2022
Page 3
Enactment:  Resolution No. 42 (2022)
15.
Fiscal Year 2020-21 Single Audit – Acceptance
Formally accept the single audit for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021.
16.
School Crossing Guards 2022-23 – Agreement
Approve an agreement with the San Mateo-Foster City School District for school crossing guards in the 
amount of $78,000 and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
presented.
17.
330 Villa Terrace – Property Owner Appeal of Relocation Benefits
Adopt a Statement of Decision denying the appeal and upholding the notice to pay relocation benefits 
to a tenant who resides at 330 Villa Terrace.
18.
Congressionally Directed Spending Project Request – Letters of Support
Authorize letters of support signed by Mayor Bonilla to be submitted to Senator Feinstein, Senator 
Padilla, and Congresswoman Speier for Congressionally Directed Spending projects in San Mateo.
19.
US 101/State Route 92 Area Improvement and Multimodal Project – Letters of Support
Authorize Mayor Bonilla to send letters of support on behalf of the City of San Mateo to Secretary of 
Transportation Pete Buttigieg, Senator Feinstein, and Senator Padilla for the San Mateo County 
Transportation Authority's requests for grant funding and Congressionally Directed Spending.
20.
Board and Commission Appointment Subcommittee – Senior Citizens Commission
Appoint Mayor Rick Bonilla and Council Member Joe Goethals to the Senior Citizens Commission 
Appointment Subcommittee.
21.
City Council Strategic Plan – Adoption
Adopt the City Council Strategic Plan for fiscal year 2022-23.
END OF CONSENT CALENDAR
REMOVED FROM CONSENT CALENDAR
8.
Dale Avenue Pumping Station Upgrade – Contingency Increase
Item 8 was pulled by staff, no action was taken, and the item will return to Council at a future meeting.
22.
Water Conservation Month and “Wyland Mayor’s Challenge for Water Conservation” – Resolution
Council Member Papan pulled Item 22 to highlight the importance of water conservation due to the 
ongoing drought issues. She pointed out the City has lots of tools and programs to guide citizens on how 
to improve efforts on conserving water. Mayor Bonilla read the resolution.
Motion to Adopt a Resolution to proclaim the month of April as “Water Conservation Month” and to 
support citywide participation of the “Wyland Mayor’s Challenge for Water Conservation”. Motion 
passed 5-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Rodriguez
Ayes: 
Bonilla, Papan, Lee, Goethals and Rodriguez
Noes: 
None
11 of 509

--- page 12 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 04/04/2022
Page 4
Enactment:  Resolution No. 43 (2022)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Public Comment – Laurie Watanuki – concerned about the traffic impacts to the neighborhood during construction of the 
Downtown Grade Separations Project; Carol Steinfeld – happy to see the “Wyland Mayor’s Challenge for Water 
Conservation be adopted since all residents need to do more to support water conservation; Lindsay Raike – requested 
Council pass a resolution to support the reopening of the Mack E. Mickelson Arthritis and Rehabilitation Center Therapy 
Pool; Raayan Mohteshemi – voiced concern about the therapy pool closure and suggested the City review innovative 
grade separation design options found in places like Montreal; Nicole Goehring – representing a construction grade 
association - cautioned the City to look into the Federal Code of Regulations if a project labor agreement is put into place 
as it could affect federal funding as it did in Berkeley.
NEW BUSINESS
23.
Ordinance Introduction – Sign Code Amendments
Gabrielle Whelan, Assistant City Attorney, gave an overview of the amendments which included updating 
definitions regarding signs leaning against vehicles in the public right-of-way, signage for multi-tenant buildings 
and chapter revisions addressing prohibited signs to include signs in the public right-of-way. Council had no 
questions.
Public Comment – there were no speakers.
Motion to Introduce an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Title 25, “Signs” by updating definitions, 
revising regulations for signs in the public right of way, clarifying the permissible number and dimensions of signs, 
and making other miscellaneous changes. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Rodriguez
Ayes: 
Bonilla, Papan, Lee, Goethals and Rodriguez
Noes: 
None
24.
Clean Water Program Costs – State Revolving Loan Approval
Rick Lee, Finance Director, gave the presentation and shared a timeline of the Clean Water Program; went over 
the estimated sources and uses of the funds as well as the debt service and coverage; and explained the 
agreement structure of the State Revolving Fund Loan. Council had no questions.
Public Comment – there were no speakers.
Motion to Adopt a Resolution to approve documents and actions relating to a San Mateo-Foster City Public 
Financing Authority State Revolving Fund Loan. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Goethals, Seconded: Rodriguez
Ayes: 
Bonilla, Papan, Lee, Goethals and Rodriguez
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Resolution No. 44 (2022)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members reported on their various assignments and liaison roles.  Council 
Member Goethals asked the council to explore passing a resolution to support the reopening of the Mickelson pool. All 
council members are interested in bringing this forward.  Council Member Lee would like to have a ceremonial item 
12 of 509

--- page 13 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 04/04/2022
Page 5
acknowledging the holy month of Ramadan. Mayor Rick Bonilla requested support for a One Shoreline presentation. 
Council members agreed. Council Member Diane Papan said she will inform the Council when the presentation is 
available. Council Members expressed their condolences on the passing of Andy Cresci, husband to past Council Member 
Maureen Freschet. 
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned at 9:40 p.m. following a moment of silence in honor of Andy Cresci who 
passed away peacefully on March 28th, his 82nd birthday. 
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Rick Bonilla, Mayor                                                   
Joan Diskin, Deputy City Clerk
13 of 509

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5932-01
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Prasanna W. Rasiah, City Attorney
PREPARED BY:
City Attorney's Office
MEETING DATE:
April 18, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Ordinance Adoption – Sign Code Amendments
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Title 25, “Signs” by updating definitions, revising regulations for 
signs in the public right of way, clarifying the permissible number and dimensions of signs, and making other miscellaneous 
changes.
BACKGROUND:
Ordinance Introduction date: April 4, 2022
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Ordinance  
STAFF CONTACT
Prasanna W. Rasiah, City Attorney
prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7020
Gabrielle Whelan, Assistant City Attorney
gwhelan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7023
14 of 509

--- page 15 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 25, “SIGNS,” OF THE SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE
WHEREAS, The City’s sign ordinance is codified in Title 25 of the San Mateo Municipal Code; and
WHEREAS, The City wishes to clarify several definitions; and 
WHEREAS, The City wishes to clarify the activities that can occur in the public right-of-way.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 25.02.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
25.02.030 DEFINITIONS.
(a) Awning Sign. A sign attached to, painted upon, appearing upon, incorporated in, or supported by an 
awning or hood.
(b) Banner. A sign, including pennants and flags, which uses cloth, paper, plastic or other non-rigid 
material as the sign surface.
(c) Business. Professions, trades, occupations, and all and every kind of calling (including nonprofit 
organizations) carried on for profit, livelihood, or fund-raising.
(d) Construction Sign. A sign displayed on the site of a construction development project, during the 
time of actual construction.
(e) Electric Face Sign. A sign containing an electrical system, but not including signs illuminated by an 
exterior light source.
(f) Exterior Light Source.  A light source which illuminates a sign but is not a component of the sign itself. 
(g) Face Sign. A sign painted on a wall or structure, or constructed as an integral unit or as individual 
words, letters, or figures, and located approximately parallel with (not more than 18 inches away from) the face 
of a building or structure.
(h) Flashing Sign. An illuminated sign on which the electrical light is not maintained stationary or 
constant in intensity and color at all times.
(i) Freestanding Sign. A sign which is self-supporting in a fixed location and not attached to or projecting 
over any building.
(j) High Rise Building. Any building which is more than fifty feet in height as measured from average 
grade.
15 of 509

--- page 16 ---
(k) Illuminated Sign. A sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs, or outline illuminated by 
electric lights or luminous tubes on, within, or attached to the sign, or by an unattached light source.
(l) Internally Illuminated Sign. The illumination of a sign by a light source that is fully incorporated into 
the sign itself.
(m) Internal Reverse Illumination. The illumination of individual letters, numbers or graphics by the use 
of internal, reverse illumination, where the light source is not directly visible.
(n) Logo. A graphic representation or symbol of a company name, trademark, or abbreviation of the 
name of the business occupying the building or property.
(o) Marquee Sign. A sign attached to or supported by a marquee. A marquee means a permanent 
roofed structure attached to and supported by a building.
(p) Mural. A large picture painted or affixed directly on a wall or ceiling. A mural is not considered a sign 
as defined by this Title.
(q) Non-Conforming Sign. A sign which does not conform to each and every applicable provision of this 
Title but was:
(1) Lawfully in existence and complied with all Municipal Code and other laws at the time of its 
erection and in use in the City prior to and at the time the provisions of this Title with which it does not 
conform became effective; or
(2) Lawfully in existence and in use on property outside the City at the time of annexation of 
such property to the City.
(r) Nonresidential Use. A church; community service building, including but not limited to, libraries, 
parks, playgrounds and community centers; public and private educational facilities; day care centers when 
located in a public or quasi-public structure such as a school, recreation center, church, temple or similar facility; 
philanthropic uses; and public utility facilities. Except as to uses specifically included in this section, 
nonresidential use does not include commercial uses.
(s) Off-Site Advertising Sign. A sign which directs attention to activity including a business, commodity, 
real property, service, or attraction or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered elsewhere than upon the 
premises where the sign is located.
(t) Permanent Sign. A sign located on a structure for more than 90 days.
(u) Portable Sign. A portable sign capable of standing without support or attachment.
(v) Private Property.  Property other than Public Property or Public Right-of-Way.
16 of 509

--- page 17 ---
(w) Projecting Sign. A sign which projects more than eighteen inches from the building face, and is 
supported by a wall, so that the sign face is perpendicular to the building face or wall, but does not exceed the 
height of the roof or parapet.
(x) Public Property. Property owned by the City, but excluding Public Right of Way.
(y) Public Right-of-Way. That area or those areas dedicated to public use for public street purposes 
including, but not limited to, roadways, parkways, alleys, and sidewalks.
(z) Roof Sign. A sign which exceeds the height of the top of the building parapet, plate line of a pitched 
roof or top of a mansard roof, or projects more than 18 inches from a mansard roof.
(aa) Shopping Center. A cluster of retail and general commercial uses which share common parking 
facilities.
(1) Community shopping center. "Community shopping center" means a shopping center 
between 20,000 and 100,000 square feet of gross floor area, capable of supporting two or more retail or 
commercial businesses.
(2) Regional shopping center. "Regional shopping center" means a shopping center generally 
totaling more than 100,000 square feet of gross floor area, including one or more anchor department 
stores.
(bb) Sign. Any structure, display, device, balloon or graphic placed on any land, building or structure, 
which is used to communicate any message, or which advertises or promotes any business, product, activity, 
person or interest. Signs include, but are not limited to, any writing, pictorial representation, logo, symbol, 
banner, or any other figure of similar character of whatever material which is used to identify, announce, direct 
attention to, advertise or communicate, which is not inside a building. The term "placed" shall include 
constructing, erecting, posting, painting, printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking, carving, stringing, or 
otherwise fastening, affixing, or making visible in any manner whatsoever. Notwithstanding the general scope of 
the foregoing, the following shall not be deemed to be signs for the purposes of this Title:
(1) Automatic Teller Machines;
(2) Architectural features that do not perform a communicative function;
(3) Foundation and cornerstones;
(4) Grave markers;
(5) Inflatable gymnasium devices;
(6) Newsracks;
(7) License plates, license plate frames, and messages painted on street legal and operable 
vehicles; or
17 of 509

--- page 18 ---
(8) Vending machines and product dispensing devices which do not display commercial 
messages unrelated to the goods or services provided by the machine or device.
(cc) Sign Area. The area in square feet within the smallest rectangle enclosing the total exterior surface 
of a sign or one face of a "double faced sign". Sign area for a multi-faced sign that has an angle between sides of 
the sign that exceeds 30 degrees shall be counted for all sides. Where the lettered or illustrated material of a 
sign consists of individual letters or if the message surface consists of noncontiguous segments or has an 
irregularly shaped perimeter, then the area of the sign shall be all of the area encompassed within a single 
continuous rectilinear-perimeter of not more than six straight lines, including any color, material or graphic 
which is integrated therein which differentiates the message from the background.
(dd) Street Frontage. The side of a building abutting a street or parking lot on the same zoning plot, and 
that is measured by calculating either the width of the building or the width of the parcel, whichever is greater.
(1) Primary Street Frontage. The street upon which a business's main entrance is located or 
upon which its address is located. In the case of multiple businesses on a zoning plot, there can only be 
one primary street frontage.
(2) Secondary Street Frontage. A street frontage other than the primary street frontage.
18 of 509

--- page 19 ---
(ee) Temporary Sign. A sign to be displayed only for a limited time as specified by this Chapter.  A 
temporary sign includes a temporary banner.  
(ff) Window Sign. A sign on the window or in the interior of a building within no less than 1 foot of a 
window.
(gg) Zoning Plot. A plot of land consisting of one or more lots or parcels on which an improvement has 
been, or can be, authorized by this Title. A division of airspace for condominiums or stock for a cooperative shall 
not establish individual zoning plots for each divided space.
Section 2. The title of Chapter 25.04 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
Chapter 25.04
SIGNS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY AND IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
Section 3. Section 25.04.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
25.04.010 FINDINGS.
In enacting this Chapter, the City Council finds:
(a) If carefully regulated, the placement of signs on city sidewalks by private individuals can provide a 
useful outlet for the expression of ideas and the communication of information related to beneficial commercial 
activity, including, but not limited to, the advertisement of real estate open house events.
(b) It is the desire of the City Council to enact standards that would allow for the regulated use of city 
sidewalks for these communication purposes.
(c) In enacting these regulations it is not the intention of the City Council to regulate the content of 
messages on signs to be placed on city sidewalks, but, instead, it is the City Council's intention to enact 
reasonable time, place and manner restrictions aimed at insuring the safety of those using the public sidewalks 
and those driving on adjacent streets, and to achieve the City's aesthetic interests by reducing visual clutter that 
would result from the unregulated posting of signs on sidewalks.
Section 4. Section 25.04.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
25.04.020 RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO SIGNS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY AND IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, it is unlawful for any person other than a City 
representative to place a sign on public property or in the public right-of-way where such sign fails to comply 
with any of the restrictions stated in this section.
(b) Restrictions Applicable to Signs.
(1) No sign shall exceed thirty-six inches in height.
19 of 509

--- page 20 ---
(2) No sign shall exceed six square feet in area.
(3) All signs shall be constructed or anchored to prevent movement of the sign by the wind, 
except that an anchoring shall not be permanent and shall not damage the property on which the sign is 
placed.
(c) Restrictions Applicable to the Placement of Signs.
(1) No sign shall be placed during hours of darkness.
(2) No sign shall be placed within the median of any public street.
(3) No sign shall be attached to, or leaned against, any street furniture, utility facility (including 
poles and boxes), street light, building, fence, or any other sign.
(4) No sign shall be placed within 50 feet of any other sign placed under the provisions of this 
chapter, except that as many as 4 signs may be placed on sidewalks within 50 feet of the intersection of 
public streets on each corner of such intersections.
(5) No sign shall be placed in such a manner as to reduce the unobstructed path of travel on any 
sidewalk to less than 36 inches, and if the existing unobstructed path of travel of a sidewalk is 36 inches 
or less, no sign shall be placed on that sidewalk.
(6) No sign shall be placed within a curb cut or ramp installed to provide improved access to a 
sidewalk to the disabled.
(7) No sign shall be placed upon any public right-of-way other than a public sidewalk, except 
that signs may be placed in unimproved right-of-way with the consent of the owner of the adjoining 
property.
(8) No sign shall be placed upon public right-of-way within the areas bounded by Baldwin 
Avenue to the north, Railroad Avenue to the east, Fifth Avenue to the south, and El Camino Real to the 
west.
(d) No person shall display a sign that would otherwise be in violation of any of the standards provided 
in subsections (b) and (c) by placing the sign upon, or leaning the sign against, a vehicle parked within the public 
right-of-way. This prohibition shall not apply to signs placed within the interior of a vehicle, signs that are 
painted on a vehicle, or to signs that are affixed to a vehicle in such a manner that the vehicle may be driven 
with the sign attached.
Section 5. Section 25.04.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
25.04.030 EXEMPTIONS.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Chapter, the following signs are permitted:
20 of 509

--- page 21 ---
(a) Signs being held by one or more persons on public property.
(b) Traffic safety signs placed on public property by private persons as directed by a public official as part 
of the authorization to perform work on public property or in the public right-of-way, or in connection with an 
event taking place on public or private property.
(c) Signs placed by a public officer or employee acting in their official capacity, including such signs as 
traffic signs, public transit signs, public restroom signs, public parking signs, warning signs, or signs identifying 
the location of emergency centers, public facilities or places of public interest.
(d) Banners placed on street light poles subject to the following limitations and requirements:
(1) Banners may only be placed on street light poles within commercial areas designated by City 
Council resolution;
(2) Only banners that announce an activity or event of community-wide interest, or 
commemorate a community institution located in the City of San Mateo may be placed on street light 
poles;
(3) No banner shall be placed on a street light pole for more than 90 days within a calendar year, 
except that banners announcing an event or activity, or commemorating a community institution that 
are placed by a public agency (such as a local, state or federal agency or special district) and at least 
partially sponsored by the City may be placed on a street light pole for up to 180 days within a calendar 
year;
(4) No banner placed on a street light pole shall exceed 25 square feet in area;
(5) At least 75% of the display area of banners placed on street light poles shall contain artwork 
or text describing the community activity or event, or the institution being commemorated, and no 
more than 25% of the display area may be used to depict the name or logo of the sponsoring entity, or 
entities;
(6) Banners and attachments placed on street light poles must obtain approval from the Director 
of Public Works to ensure the banners will remain safely affixed to the street light poles and will not 
present a threat to the safety of those making use of nearby streets and sidewalks;
(7) No banner or attachment shall be placed on a street light pole before an encroachment 
permit is issued under San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.08; and
(8) Banners must be removed no later than the last date of the authorized display period.
Section 6. Section 25.06.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
21 of 509

--- page 22 ---
25.06.010 PERMIT REQUIRED.
Unless exempt, all signs require a sign permit issued by the City. Unless otherwise provided in this Title, 
no person shall install, erect, display, alter, move or replace any nonexempt sign without first obtaining a sign 
permit issued by the City in accordance with this Title. Signs requiring permits such as a building or electrical 
permit under the uniform construction codes shall obtain those permits prior to being erected; application for a 
building or other uniform construction code permit shall be filed concurrently with the sign application.
Section 7. Section 25.06.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
25.06.050 SIGNS ALLOWED.
Except as otherwise provided in this Title, only the following signs are allowed on private property.
(a) Temporary Banners. Temporary banners may be maintained for a period of 30 consecutive days. The 
use of banners shall not exceed a total of 90 days per calendar year per business. One banner per street 
frontage, per zoning plot, shall be permitted with a maximum size of 50 square feet each. No banner shall 
exceed the height of the business's building parapet, plate line of a pitched roof, or top of a mansard roof. 
Temporary banners are allowed in addition to the number and size of permanent signs allowed for the zoning 
plot.
(b) Permanent Signs. The following types of permanent signs are permitted:
(1) Signs Approved as Part of Planned Signing District. A Planned Signing District shall be 
reviewed by the Zoning Administrator under Chapter 27.08 and shall be subject to appeal to the 
Planning Commission pursuant to Section 27.08.090. The Planned Signing District must conform to the 
following standards:
(A) Be consistent with the applicable restrictions for the zoning district, type of use and 
zoning plot size.
(B) Each sign shall be designed to be compatible with the architectural style of the main 
building on the zoning plot and with the predominant visual elements of the building, such as 
construction materials, color, or other design detail. Each sign located on a zoning plot with 
more than one building shall be designed to be compatible with the predominant visual 
elements common or similar to such buildings or the buildings occupied by the anchor tenants 
or principal uses such as construction materials, color, or other design detail. Signs located on 
commercial sites but in a predominantly residential area shall take into consideration the 
architectural style in the residential area.
(2) Freestanding Signs Over Eight Feet in Height. Freestanding signs over eight feet in height 
shall be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator under Chapter 27.08 and shall be subject to appeal to the 
Planning Commission pursuant to Section 27.08.090. The freestanding sign shall be subject to the 
following standards:
22 of 509

--- page 23 ---
(A) The applicable restrictions are based upon the zoning district, type of use and zoning 
plot size. Any freestanding sign over eight feet in height shall be consistent with these 
regulations.
(B) Each sign shall be designed to be compatible with the architectural style of the main 
building on the zoning plot and with the predominant visual elements of the building, such as 
construction materials, color, or other design detail. Each sign located on a zoning plot with 
more than one building shall be designed to be compatible with the predominant visual 
elements common or similar to such buildings or the buildings occupied by the anchor tenants 
or principal uses such as construction materials, color, or other design detail. Signs located on 
commercial sites but in a predominantly residential area shall take into consideration the 
architectural style in the residential area.
(C) The height must be in scale with the surrounding neighborhood.
(3) Signs on High Rise Buildings. High rise buildings within Commercial (C), Executive Office (E) 
and Transportation Oriented Development (TOD) zoning districts may have face signs located 40 feet 
above ground level. These signs are subject to the following restrictions:
(A) Only open block letter signs shall be permitted. Such signs shall be an integral part of 
the design of the building; and
(B) No method of illumination shall be permitted that either exposes the lighting tubes 
or bulbs. Signs must use internal reverse illumination, with low intensity lighting with tubing or 
bulbs concealed behind or within translucent or opaque letters, logos or similar signage. 
However, 20 percent of the sign area may be internally illuminated with a direct light source; 
and
(C) The total area and number of all signs, including any signs above 40 feet, shall not 
exceed the maximum area and number permitted in the zoning district in which the building is 
located; however, they can be located on any side of the building and are not limited to the 
primary, secondary street frontage or parking frontage.
(4) Freeway Oriented Signs. On zoning plots which are immediately adjacent to the freeway 
right-of-way, signs may be erected facing towards the freeway. A freeway sign is allowed in addition to 
signs authorized for the zoning district of the zoning plot. The additional sign area allowed for a freeway 
sign may not be combined with the sign area square footage otherwise allowed for the zoning plot in 
order to exceed the allowed square feet per sign on street frontages or to create larger signs. In 
addition, the sign area authorized for the zoning district of the zoning plot may not be used to create 
additional or larger freeway signs. Such signage shall be subject to the following restrictions:
(A) Maximum letter height of four feet and a maximum length of 50 feet.
(B) Maximum size of 150 square feet total.
(C) Maximum number of three signs is permitted.
23 of 509

--- page 24 ---
(D) Face signs if placed on the building wall.
(5) Motor Vehicle Fuel Service Stations. Motor vehicle fuel service stations shall be permitted to 
exceed the number of signs otherwise authorized by this Chapter in order to erect those signs 
designated in Business and Professions Code Section 13400 et seq., for motor vehicle fuel prices and 
services.
(6) Signs permitted in the applicable zoning district in accordance with Section 25.06.070.
Section 8. Section 25.06.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
25.06.060 SIGNS ALLOWED WITHOUT PERMIT (EXEMPT SIGNS).
(a) Exempt Signs. The following signs are exempt from the permit and fee requirements of this Title, but 
are subject to the other restrictions set forth in this Title. Signs allowed by this Section shall not be counted 
against the signage allowed in Section 25.06.070, but may not be added to that signage to create a larger sign.
(1) Sign Size per Zoning District. Signs up to 10 square feet in R1 and R2 districts and 16 square 
feet in all other districts. No sign may be larger than six square feet, except as allowed under flags and 
pennants below.
(2) Window Signs. In addition to signs authorized by Section 25.06.070, each residential unit, 
nonresidential use or individual business may have the window signs listed below. The square footage 
may not be combined with that allowed for other residential units, nonresidential use or businesses to 
exceed the allowed square feet per residential unit, nonresidential use or per business or to create 
larger signs. Window signs shall not cover more than 25% of the window area of any window within a 
building.
(A) Signs up to four square feet in size.
(B) Ground floor retail businesses may have 50 square feet of window signs per street 
frontage.
(3) Address Signs. In addition to signs authorized by Section 25.06.070, each building, unit, or 
property with an address may place a sign not to exceed one square foot limited to the street address 
for the building, unit, or property.
(4) Parking Lots and Garages. Signs in parking lots and garages that direct vehicle traffic or state 
parking limitations.
(5) Flags and Pennants. Two flags or any number of pennants totaling 30 square feet in addition 
to the square footage allowed by Section 25.06.070.
(6) Law. Signs required by law. The sign area of signs permitted under this subsection shall not 
be counted against any sign area limit provided for in this Title.
24 of 509

--- page 25 ---
(7) Construction Signs. 
(A) The following construction signs are allowed on a zoning plot:
(i) For zoning plots less than one acre in size, one sign is allowed per street 
frontage with a total maximum area of 32 square feet.
(ii) For zoning plots one acre in size or more, one sign is allowed per lot frontage 
with a total maximum area of 64 square feet.
(B) Limitations. Construction signs on each zoning plot are subject to the following 
limitations:
(i) Maximum Height. Eight feet in height, measured at grade, sidewalk or street, 
whichever is lower.
(ii) Permissible Display Time. Beginning with the grant of a building permit and 
ending with the earlier of notice of completion or certificate of occupancy for the 
subject development, or their functional equivalent.
(iii) Private Property. If attached to a fence surrounding the zoning plot, the sign 
should be located on private property and not encroach into the public right-of-way.
(iv) Abandoned Construction Signs. Construction signs that remain following 
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall be deemed abandoned and may be 
abated by the City as a public nuisance.
(8) Change in Sign Copy. Changes in sign copy to an existing permitted and legally erected sign 
without any accompanying change in square footage, height, and sign structure are exempt from the 
permit and fee requirements of this title, provided that the change in sign copy complies with this Title.
(9) Legal Nonconforming Signs. Any on-premises advertising display, as that term is defined in 
Business and Professions Code Section 5490 et seq., which lawfully exists on the effective date of the 
ordinance codified in this Title, but which is not authorized by this Title, is a legal nonconforming sign, 
and may continue as an exception to this Title, and to any zoning provisions of this Code. However, a 
legal nonconforming sign shall be removed or brought into conformance with the provisions of this Title 
if such sign meets any of the criteria set forth in Business and Professions Code Section 5497. For the 
purposes of applying Business and Professions Code Section 5497, an advertising display shall be 
considered "abandoned" if it has not displayed any message (either commercial or noncommercial) for a 
period of 90 consecutive days.
(b) Limitations. Exempt signs on each zoning plot are subject to the following limitations:
(1) Freestanding signs shall not exceed the maximum height of six feet above grade or the 
adjacent street or sidewalk whichever is lower.
25 of 509

--- page 26 ---
(2) Individual signs shall not exceed six square feet, except as allowed for flags and pennants.
(3) In a Residential Zoning District, signs shall be limited to face, pennants, flags, window and 
freestanding signs.
(4) Signs may not be internally illuminated.
Section 9. Section 25.06.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
25.06.070 ZONING REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO SIGNS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
(a) Residential Districts (R1-A, R1-B, R1-C, R2, R3, R4, R5, R4-D, R5-D and R6-D). 
(1) For single-family residential uses and multiple-family residential uses on zoning plots of less 
than 10,000 square feet, no signs other than those designated in this Title are authorized.
(2) For nonresidential uses, as defined in Section 25.02.030, and multiple family residential uses 
on zoning plots of 10,000 square feet or larger, the restrictions set forth in Table 25.06-2, Sign 
Restrictions in Residential (R) Districts for Multiple-Family Residential Uses and Nonresidential Uses 
(Special Uses and Mixed Uses) on Zoning Plots 10,000 Square Feet or Larger, shall apply.
(3) For commercial uses, the restrictions set forth in Table 25.06-3, Sign Restrictions in 
Commercial Districts, shall apply.
Table 25.06-1: Sign Restrictions in Residential (R) Districts for Residential Uses on Zoning Plots less than 
10,000 Square Feet (R1-A, R1-B, R1-C, R2, R3, R4, R5, R4-D, R5-D, R6-D)
Total Sign Area Permitted
Signs up to 10 sq. ft. in R1 and R2 districts and 16 sq. 
ft. in all other districts. No sign may be larger than 6 
sq. ft., except as allowed as flags and pennants.
Number of Signs Permitted
No restrictions other than those set forth in this 
Chapter.
Types of Signs Permitted
Face
No neon
Freestanding
No neon; plus maximum height limit of 8 ft
Projecting
No internal neon
No sign, regardless of type, shall be located above 40 feet above grade, except as provided for high-rise 
buildings in Section 25.06.050.
26 of 509

--- page 27 ---
Table 25.06-2: Sign Restrictions in Residential (R) Districts for Multiple-Family Residential Uses and 
Nonresidential Uses (Special Uses and Mixed Uses) on Zoning Plots 10,000 Square Feet or Larger (R1-A, R1-B, 
R1-C, R2, R3, R4, R5, R4-D, R5-D, R6-D)
Zoning Plot Size
10K-15K sq. ft.
15K-30K sq. ft.
30K-50K sq. ft.
50K sq. ft. and 
Above
Total Sign Area 
Permitted (10 sq. 
ft. minimum for all 
plot sizes)
0.5 sq. ft. per lineal 
ft. of street 
frontage; maximum 
20 sq. ft.
0.5 sq. ft. per lineal 
ft. of street 
frontage; maximum 
25 sq. ft.
0.5 sq. ft. per lineal 
ft. of street 
frontage; maximum 
50 sq. ft.
0.5 sq. ft. per lineal 
ft. of street 
frontage; maximum 
100 sq. ft.
Number of Signs
Three signs, none 
exceeding 10 sq. ft.; 
one may be 
freestanding.
Three signs, none 
exceeding 15 sq. ft.; 
one may be 
freestanding.
Four signs, none 
exceeding 25 sq. ft.; 
one may be 
freestanding.
Four signs, none 
exceeding 40 sq. ft.; 
two may be 
freestanding.
Types of Signs 
Permitted
Face
No neon
Freestanding
No neon; plus maximum height limit of 8 ft.
Projecting
No neon
No sign, regardless of type, shall be located above 40 feet above grade, except as provided for high-rise 
buildings in Section 25.06.050.
(b) Regulations in all Commercial (C) Districts (C1, C2, C3, C4 and CBD Support). (Except CBD-Required 
Retail Frontage Area). The following restrictions shall apply in all commercial districts, except Central Business 
District (CBD)-Required Retail Frontage Area. Community or Regional shopping centers have other restrictions 
even though they are located in a commercial district:
(1) For commercial uses, the restrictions set forth in Table 25.06-3, Sign Restrictions in 
Commercial Districts, shall apply.
(2) For single-family residential uses and multiple-family residential uses on zoning plots of less 
than 10,000 square feet, the restrictions set forth in Table 25.06-1, Residential (R) Districts for 
Residential Uses on Zoning Plots less than 10,000 Square Feet, shall apply.
(3) For nonresidential uses, as defined in Section 25.02.030, and multiple-family residential uses 
on zoning plots of 10,000 square feet or larger, the restrictions set forth in Table 25.06-2, Sign 
Restrictions in Residential (R) Districts for Multiple-Family Residential Uses and Nonresidential Uses 
(Special Uses and Mixed Uses) on Zoning Plots 10,000 Square Feet or Larger, shall apply.
(4) Existing Community and Regional Shopping Centers. All businesses or other allowed uses 
within existing community shopping centers that do not have an approved planned sign district shall be 
limited to a maximum of 25 square feet of individual sign area.
27 of 509

--- page 28 ---
(5) New Community and Regional Shopping Centers. All new community and regional shopping 
centers, and existing community and regional shopping centers undergoing substantial exterior 
remodeling pursuant to a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) under Title 27, shall require review 
and approval of a Planned Signing District concurrent with SPAR review. All signs shall conform to the 
provisions of the Planned Signing District.
(6) Multiple Tenants. Where a building contains more than one tenant, the following 
regulations shall apply:
(A) Sign Area. Shall be calculated per the restrictions set forth in Tables 25.06-3, 25.06-4 
and 25.06-5, whichever is applicable. The total area of signs shall not exceed that required for 
the zoning plot. When a building contains more than one tenant and has more than one street 
frontage, for the purposes of calculating maximum square footage, the primary street frontage 
for all the tenants shall be the street upon which the building's main entrance is located, 
irrespective of the location or address of each individual tenant's main address.
(B) Number of Signs. Shall be based on the number of ground floor tenants within the 
building (that have a street frontage). One sign per each ground floor tenant with street 
frontage shall be allowed. These signs may be used to advertise any tenant in the building. In 
addition, one freestanding sign for the entire building may be permitted.
(C) Location of Signs. Except as provided in subdivision (E), signs for all tenants must be 
located on the ground level.
(D) Multiple Tenant Buildings.  Multiple tenant buildings can opt to conform to the 
restrictions for single tenant buildings set forth in Tables 25.06-3, 25.06-4 and 25.06-5, 
whichever is applicable.
(E) High Rise Buildings with Multiple Tenants. High rise buildings with multiple tenants 
may have one face sign not to exceed 150 square feet in sign area in addition to the sign area 
and number of signs allowed in subsections (b)(6)(A) and (b)(6)(B). High rise building face signs 
are subject to the requirements set forth in Section 25.06.050(b)(3).
Table 25.06-3: Sign Restrictions in Commercial (C) Districts (C1, C2, C3, C4 and CBD Support) (Except CBD-
Required Retail Frontage Area)
Total Sign Area 
Permitted
Primary Street Frontage: 1.5 sq. ft./1 lineal foot of 
street frontage (allowable minimum of 50 sq. ft. 
regardless of primary street frontage size, and up to 
maximum of 300 sq. ft)
Secondary Street 
Frontage: 1.0 sq. ft./1 
lineal foot of street 
frontage; maximum 100 
sq. ft., minimum 25 sq. ft.
Number of Signs 
Permitted
2 signs per street frontage per business. Only 1 sign per street frontage may be 
either a freestanding or projecting sign. For multi-tenant buildings see Section 
25.06.070(b)(6).
28 of 509

--- page 29 ---
Types of Permitted Signs
Maximum Size
Minimum and/or 
Maximum Height
Additional Requirements
Awning
No specified limit other 
than the total sign area 
and number of permitted 
signs as specified above.
No specified limit other 
than the total sign area 
and number of permitted 
signs as specified above.
None other than the total 
sign area and number of 
permitted signs as 
specified above.
Face
No specified limit other 
than the total sign area 
and number of permitted 
signs as specified above.
Shall be at least 10 ft. 
above the ground or 
sidewalk if sign projects 
more than 6 inches from 
building.
Shall not extend above 
the building roof line or 
parapet line.
None other than the total 
sign area and number of 
permitted signs as 
specified above.
Freestanding
For lots up to 50 ft. in 
width, maximum size of 
40 sq. ft.
For lots over 50 ft. in 
width, an additional 0.35 
sq. ft./1 ft. of frontage 
permitted up to a 
maximum size of 75 sq. 
ft.
For lots up to 50 ft. in 
width, maximum height 
to top of sign of 15 ft.
For lots over 50 ft. in 
width, an additional 0.1 
ft. of height/1 ft. of 
frontage permitted up to 
a maximum height to top 
of sign of 25 ft.
Signs over 8 ft. in height 
require approval by the 
Planning Commission.
The area below the sign 
shall be landscaped and 
enclosed by a 4-inch high 
curb.
Where area below the 
sign copy is not generally 
solid from the ground to 
the lower edge of the 
display area, a minimum 
height of 10 ft. to bottom 
of sign shall be provided.
Marquee
No specified limit other 
than the total sign area 
and number of permitted 
signs as specified above.
Shall be at least 10 ft. 
above the ground or 
sidewalk.
Shall not extend above 
the building roof line or 
parapet line.
Shall not be more than 4 
ft. in vertical dimension.
Shall be approximately 
parallel with face of 
marquee.
Shall not project more 
than 6 inches beyond 
face of marquee nor be 
within 2 ft. of 
29 of 509

--- page 30 ---
perpendicular projection 
of curb line.
Projecting
No specified limit other 
than the total sign area 
and number of permitted 
signs as specified above.
Shall be at least 10 ft. 
above the ground or 
sidewalk.
Shall not extend above 
the building roof line or 
parapet line.
Shall not project more 
than 4 ft. from the face 
of building.
Shall not project within 2 
ft. of curb line.
No sign, regardless of type, shall be located above 40 ft. above grade, except as provided for high-rise 
buildings in Section 25.06.050.
(c) Sign Regulations in the Central Business District (CBD)-Required Retail Frontage Area. 
(1) For commercial uses, the restrictions set forth in Table 25.06-4, Sign Restrictions in the 
Central Business District (CBD)-Required Retail Frontage Area, shall apply.
(2) For single-family residential uses and multiple-family residential uses on zoning plots of less 
than 10,000 square feet, the restrictions set forth in Table 25.06-1, Residential (R) Districts for 
Residential Uses on Zoning Plots less than 10,000 Square Feet, shall apply.
(3) For nonresidential uses, as defined in Section 25.02.030, and multiple-family residential uses 
on zoning plots of 10,000 square feet or larger, the restrictions set forth in Table 25.06-2, Sign 
Restrictions in Residential (R) Districts for Multiple-Family Residential Uses and Nonresidential Uses 
(Special Uses and Mixed Uses) on Zoning Plots 10,000 Square Feet or Larger, shall apply.
(4) Multiple Tenants. Where a building contains more than one tenant and individual signs are 
desired, the provisions of Section 25.06.070(b)(6) shall apply.
Table 25.06-4: Sign Restrictions in the Central Business District (CBD)-Required Retail Frontage Area
Total Sign Area 
Permitted
Primary Street Frontage: 1 sq. ft./1 lineal foot of 
street frontage (allowable minimum of 35 sq. ft. 
regardless of primary street frontage size, and up to a 
maximum of 100 sq. ft.)
Secondary Street 
Frontage: 0.5 sq. ft./1 
lineal foot of street 
frontage; maximum 50 
sq. ft., minimum 25 sq. ft.
Number of Signs 
Permitted
2 signs per street frontage for a single tenant building. Only 1 sign per street 
frontage may be a projecting sign. For multi-tenant buildings see Section 
25.06.070(b)(6).
Types of Permitted Signs
Maximum Size
Minimum and/or 
Maximum Height
Additional Requirements
Awning
No specified limit other 
than the total sign area 
No specified limit other 
than the total sign area 
No specified limit other 
than the total sign area 
30 of 509

--- page 31 ---
and number of permitted 
signs as specified above.
and number of permitted 
signs as specified above.
and number of permitted 
signs as specified above.
Face
No specified limit other 
than the total sign area 
and number of permitted 
signs as specified above.
Maximum height of 20 ft.
Shall not extend above 
the building roof line or 
parapet line.
Illuminated or electric 
face signs shall be at 
least 8 ft. above the 
sidewalk or ground.
Illuminated face signs 
shall not project more 
than 12 inches from 
building face.
Un-illuminated face signs 
shall not project more 
than 6 inches from 
building face.
Marquee
No specified limit other 
than the total sign area 
and number of permitted 
signs as specified above.
Shall be at least 10 ft. 
above the ground or 
sidewalk.
Shall not extend above 
the building roof line or 
parapet line.
Shall not be more than 4 
ft. in vertical dimension.
Shall be approximately 
parallel with face of 
marquee.
Shall not project more 
than 6 inches beyond 
face of marquee nor 
within 2 ft. of curb line.
Projecting
No specified limit other 
than the total sign area 
and number of permitted 
signs as specified above.
Shall be at least 10 ft. 
above the ground or 
sidewalk.
Shall not extend above 
the building roof line or 
parapet line.
Shall not project more 
than 4 ft. from the face 
of building.
Shall not be more than 2-
ft. thick.
No sign, regardless of type, shall be located above 40 ft. above grade, except as provided for high-rise 
buildings in Section 25.06.050.
(d) Sign Regulations in Executive Office Districts (E1, E2). 
(1) For commercial uses, the restrictions set forth in Table 25.06-5, Sign Restrictions in Executive 
Office Districts, shall apply.
(2) For single-family residential uses and multiple-family residential uses on zoning plots of less 
than 10,000 square feet, the restrictions set forth in Table 25.06-1, Residential (R) Districts for 
Residential Uses on Zoning Plots less than 10,000 Square Feet, shall apply.
31 of 509

--- page 32 ---
(3) For nonresidential uses, as defined in Section 25.02.030, and multiple-family residential uses 
on zoning plots of 10,000 square feet or larger, the restrictions set forth in Table 25.06-2, Sign 
Restrictions in Residential (R) Districts for Multiple-Family Residential Uses and Nonresidential Uses 
(Special Uses and Mixed Uses) on Zoning Plots 10,000 Square Feet or Larger, shall apply.
(4) Multiple Tenants. Where a building contains more than one tenant and individual signs are 
desired, the provisions of Section 25.06.070(b)(6) shall apply.
Table 25.06-5: Sign Restrictions in Executive Office Districts (E1, E2)
All E Districts, except San Mateo Drive Between 
Baldwin & Villa Terrace
E Districts on San Mateo 
Drive Between Baldwin 
& Villa Terrace
Total Sign Area 
Permitted
1.5 sq. ft./1 lineal foot of street frontage (allowable 
minimum of 50 sq. ft. regardless of street frontage 
size, and up to a maximum of 300 sq. ft.)
Maximum of 35 sq. ft.
Number of Signs 
Permitted
2 signs per street frontage per business. Only 1 
freestanding sign per zoning plot. For multi-tenant 
buildings, see Section 25.06.070(b)(6).
One sign per building.
Types of Permitted Signs
Maximum Size
Minimum and/or 
Maximum Height
Additional Requirements
Awning
No specified limit other 
than the total sign area 
and number of permitted 
signs as specified above.
No specified limit other 
than the total sign area 
and number of permitted 
signs as specified above.
No specified limit other 
than the total sign area 
and number of permitted 
signs as specified above.
Face
No specified limit other 
than the total sign area 
and number of permitted 
signs as specified above.
Shall be at least 10 ft. 
above the ground if sign 
projects more than 6 
inches from the building.
Shall not extend above 
the building roof line or 
parapet line.
No specified limit other 
than the total sign area 
and number of permitted 
signs as specified above.
Freestanding
For lots up to 50 ft. in 
width, maximum size of 
40 sq. ft.
For lots over 50 ft. in 
width, an additional 0.35 
sq. ft./1 ft. of frontage 
permitted up to a 
Maximum of 8 ft. in 
height.
The area below 
freestanding signs shall 
be landscaped and 
enclosed by a 6-inch high 
curb.
32 of 509

--- page 33 ---
All E Districts, except San Mateo Drive Between 
Baldwin & Villa Terrace
E Districts on San Mateo 
Drive Between Baldwin 
& Villa Terrace
maximum size of 75 sq. 
ft.
Marquee
No specified limit other 
than the total sign area 
and number of permitted 
signs as specified above.
Shall be at least 10 ft. 
above the ground or 
sidewalk.
Shall not extend above 
the building roof line or 
parapet line.
Shall not be more than 4 
ft. in vertical dimension.
Shall be approximately 
parallel with face of 
marquee.
Shall not project more 
than 6 inches beyond 
face of marquee nor be 
within 2 ft. of curb line.
No sign, regardless of type, shall be located above 40 ft. above grade, except as provided for high-rise 
buildings in Section 25.06.050.
(e) Manufacturing District (M1). 
(1) For commercial uses, the restrictions set forth in Table 25.06-3, Sign Restrictions in 
Commercial Districts, shall apply.
(2) Multiple Tenants. Where a building contains more than one ground floor tenant and 
individual signs are desired, the provisions of Section 25.06.070(b)(6) shall apply.
(f) Sign Regulations in Transportation Oriented Development (TOD), Agricultural (A), Shoreline (S), Open 
Space (OS) and Other Districts and Overlay Districts.
The following restrictions shall apply to all agricultural, shoreline, and other zoning districts not 
specifically designated in this chapter, as well as for any land or zoning plot with no zoning designation:
(1) For commercial uses, the restrictions set forth in Table 25.06-3, Sign Restrictions in 
Commercial Districts, shall apply.
(2) For single-family residential uses and multiple-family residential uses on zoning plots of less 
than 10,000 square feet, the restrictions set forth in Table 25.06-1, Residential (R) Districts for 
Residential Uses on Zoning Plots less than 10,000 Square Feet, shall apply.
(3) For nonresidential uses, as defined in Section 25.02.030, and multiple-family residential uses 
on zoning plots of 10,000 square feet or larger, the restrictions set forth in Table 25.06-2, Sign 
33 of 509

--- page 34 ---
Restrictions in Residential (R) Districts for Multiple-Family Residential Uses and Nonresidential Uses 
(Special Uses and Mixed Uses) on Zoning Plots 10,000 Square Feet or Larger, shall apply.
(4) Multiple Tenants. Where a building contains more than one tenant and individual signs are 
desired, the provisions of Section 25.06.070(b)(6) shall apply.
Section 10. Section 25.08.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
25.08.010 PROHIBITED SIGNS ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY AND PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY.
(a) Prohibited Signs. No person shall install or maintain any of the signs described below. Upon notice by 
the City, any prohibited sign shall be immediately removed by the property owner or person responsible for the 
installation or maintenance of the sign. The following signs are expressly prohibited:
(1) Without Consent of Property Owner. Signs erected or maintained without the written 
consent of the owner of the real property or the person or entity in legal possession of the real 
property;
(2) Banners, except as permitted by Sections 25.04.030 and 25.06.050(a) and there may be 
permanently displayed on each zoning plot 1 flag that is no larger than 6 feet by 4 feet in dimension, and 
there is no limit on the number of flags that may be displayed by public agencies on public property;
(3) Rotating, animated, moving or flashing signs;
(4) Roof Signs;
(5) Off-Site Advertising Signs; except that one six (6) square foot sign containing off-site 
advertising shall be permitted on each zoning plot;
(6) Inflating Devices, including balloons and other lighter than air objects;
(7) Signs not permitted by this Title.
(b) Signs At Prohibited Locations: No person shall install or maintain any of the signs identified below. 
Upon notice by the City, any sign at a prohibited location shall be immediately abated by the property owner or 
person responsible for the installation and/or maintenance of the sign. The following locations are expressly 
prohibited:
(1) Signs at Intersections. No sign shall be erected at or near the intersection of any street or at 
any location where, by reason of the position, shape or color, it may interfere with, obstruct the view of, 
or be confused with any authorized traffic sign or signal device; or which makes use of the words "Stop," 
"Go," "Caution," "Look," "Danger," or any other word, phrase, symbol or character in such a manner as 
to interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic.
(2) Intersection Visibility. No sign shall be erected at or near the intersection of any street so as 
to obstruct free and clear vision, or obstruct visibility within the triangular area of private property 
34 of 509

--- page 35 ---
formed by the extension of intersection curb lines, or pavement edge where no curb exists, and the 
diagonal line connecting the point on each of the two streets at a distance 45 feet back from the 
intersection.
(3) Ingress/Egress. No sign shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent free 
ingress to or egress from any door, window, fire escape or fire equipment.
(c) Illegal Signs—Nuisance. All illegal signs are expressly declared a nuisance. For purposes of this 
section, an illegal sign shall mean:
(1) A sign erected and/or maintained without first complying with all ordinances and 
regulations.
(2) A sign which is a danger to the public or is unsafe.
(3) A prohibited sign as defined by this title.
(d) Enforcement. 
(1) The placement of a sign on public or private property or in the public right-of-way in violation 
of any provision of this Title may be enforced by any method provided by this Code. Each day that the 
violation continues shall be deemed to be a new violation. All violations are declared to be public 
nuisances.
(2) Any sign placed on public property or in the public right-of-way in violation of any provision 
of this Title may be removed and impounded without notice. Impounded signs will be held for at least 
30 days. If possible, the City will make reasonable attempts to notify the owner of an impounded sign 
that the sign has been impounded. If after 10 days’ notice to reclaim the sign, the owner of the sign fails 
to retrieve the sign and pay the City's reasonable costs to impound and store the sign, the sign may be 
disposed of in any manner whatsoever at the City's discretion. The amount of the sign retrieval fee shall 
be established by City Council resolution.
Section 11. Environmental Determination. In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3), adoption of 
these sign ordinance amendments is covered by the “common sense exemption” that CEQA applies only to 
projects which have the potential to cause a significant effect on the environment.  Here, it can be seen with 
certainty that the sign ordinance amendments, which consist of updates to definitions and clarification of what 
activities can occur in the public right-of-way, will not have a significant effect on the environment per 
Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).
Section 12. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 13. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
35 of 509

--- page 36 ---
Section 14. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
36 of 509

--- page 37 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-5410-10
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
April 18, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Remote Teleconferenced City Council and Commission Meetings – Reauthorization 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to reauthorize remote teleconferenced City Council and Board and Commission meetings for 30 days, 
through May 18, 2022, as allowed by Assembly Bill 361 amending the Brown Act, based upon the Governor’s emergency 
proclamation and findings that meeting in person would present imminent risks to the health or safety of attendees. 
BACKGROUND:
At its October 18, 2021, City Council meeting, the Council adopted Resolution No. 100 (2021) authorizing continued 
remote meetings of the Council and its subordinate legislative bodies due to the imminent risk to the health and safety of 
attendees due to possible transmission of COVID-19 and the recent spread of variants. The resolution became effective 
October 18, 2021 through November 17, 2021, or until the City Council adopts a subsequent resolution. AB 361 requires 
confirming the emergency circumstances 30 days after the first teleconference meeting and every 30 days thereafter. At 
the October 18 meeting, the Council accepted staff’s recommendation to pass a resolution at every meeting to ensure 
there is no gap in the effectiveness of authorizing resolutions. The action being requested at this April 18th meeting is to 
adopt a resolution reauthorizing remote teleconferenced Council and Commission meetings per the requirements of 
Assembly Bill 361. 
It was noted in the original resolution that current health orders require masking in all indoor facilities due to health and 
safety concerns. While San Mateo County Health Order No. c19-12 (which required masking in workplaces and public 
settings) was rescinded on February 16, 2022, the Delta and Omicron variants are highly transmissible in indoor settings 
and requires multi-component prevention strategies to reduce their spread. Thus, as of February 16, 2022, the California 
Department of Public Health still requires masking for unvaccinated people (and recommends the practice for all) in indoor 
public settings as well as in state and local government offices that serve the public. Returning to meeting in the Council 
Chambers or smaller conference rooms means being in an enclosed space for meetings that commonly last for one to five 
hours and would seem to create additional exposure for participants to a possible transmission of the virus. This health 
advice is still in place.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for taking this action as all software and hardware needs to meet remotely have already been 
purchased and are in use.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Adoption of this resolution authorizing remote teleconferenced meetings of the City Council and City Boards and 
Commission is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
37 of 509

--- page 38 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
38 of 509

--- page 39 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. __ (2022)
REAUTHORIZING REMOTE TELECONFERENCE MEETINGS OF THE LEGISLATIVE BODIES OF CITY OF SAN MATEO 
EFFECTIVE APRIL 18, 2022 UNTIL THE EARLIER OF MAY 18, 2022 OR SUCH TIME THE CITY COUNCIL ADOPTS A 
SUBSEQUENT RESOLUTION, PURSUANT TO THE BROWN ACT 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo is committed to preserving and nurturing public access and participation in 
meetings of the City Council and its Boards and Commissions; and
 
WHEREAS, all meetings of City of San Mateo’s legislative bodies are open and public, as required by the 
Ralph M. Brown Act (Cal. Gov. Code 54950 – 54963), so that any member of the public may attend, participate, and 
watch the District’s legislative bodies conduct their business; and
 
WHEREAS, the Brown Act, Government Code section 54953(e), makes provisions for remote 
teleconferencing participation in meetings by members of a legislative body, without compliance with the 
requirements of Government Code section 54953(b)(3), subject to the existence of certain conditions; and
 
WHEREAS, a required condition is that a state of emergency is declared by the Governor pursuant to 
Government Code section 8625, proclaiming the existence of conditions of disaster or of extreme peril to the safety 
of persons and property within the state caused by conditions as described in Government Code section 8558; and
 
WHEREAS, a proclamation is made when there is an actual incident, threat of disaster, or extreme peril to 
the safety of persons and property within the jurisdictions that are within the City’s boundaries, caused by natural, 
technological, or human-caused disasters; and
 
WHEREAS, it is further required that state or local officials have imposed or recommended measures to 
promote social distancing, or, the legislative body meeting in person would present imminent risks to the health and 
safety of attendees; and
 
WHEREAS, such conditions now exist in the City, specifically, the Governor has proclaimed a state of 
emergency exists for the state of California due to the conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact 
on the health and safety of its residents; and
 
WHEREAS, the Delta and Omicron variants are highly transmissible in indoor spaces, the California 
Department of Public Health is currently investigating how long vaccine protection lasts, and the Center for Disease 
Control and Prevention recommends avoiding indoor spaces that do not offer fresh air from the outdoors; and  
WHEREAS, in accordance with Assembly Bill 361, the City Council does hereby find that as a result of the 
emergency, meeting in person would present imminent risks to the health or safety of attendees and the Council 
desires to authorize continued remote teleconferenced meetings of its legislative bodies; and
WHEREAS, as a consequence of the local emergency, the City Council does hereby find that the legislative 
bodies of City of San Mateo shall conduct their meetings without compliance with paragraph (3) of subdivision (b) of 
Government Code section 54953, as authorized by subdivision (e) of section 54953, and that such legislative bodies 
39 of 509

--- page 40 ---
Resolution No. __ (2022)
Page 2 of 2
Reauthorizing Remote Teleconference Meetings 
shall comply with the requirements to provide the public with access to the meetings as prescribed in paragraph (2) 
of subdivision (e) of section 54953; and  
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo has taken measures to conduct public meetings via virtual tools that allow 
for members of its legislative bodies and members of the public to join and participate in meetings remotely and 
provide public testimony in the virtual environment and via teleconference; and
WHEREAS, on October 18, 2021, the City Council adopted a resolution authoring remote teleconference 
meetings of San Mateo legislative bodies, effective until the earlier of November 17, 2021 or when the City Council 
adopts a subsequent resolution; and
WHEREAS, this resolution represents a reauthorization of such remote teleconference meetings, pursuant 
to the Brown Act.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, DOES HEREBY FIND AND 
RESOLVE AS FOLLOWS:
1.
Recitals. The Recitals set forth above are true and correct and are incorporated into this Resolution by 
this reference.
2. AB 361 Findings. 
a.
On March 4, 2020, the Governor of the State of California issued a Proclamation of State of 
Emergency, which remains in effect.
b.
Meeting in person would present imminent risk to the health or safety of attendees, because:
(1) The Delta and Omicron variants of the coronavirus are highly transmissible in indoor settings.
(2) The California Department of Public Health is currently investigating how long vaccine 
protection lasts.
(3) The Center for Disease Control and Prevention recommends avoiding indoor spaces that do not 
offer fresh air from the outdoors as much as possible.
3. Remote Teleconference Meetings. The City Manager and legislative bodies of the City of San Mateo are 
hereby authorized and directed to take all actions necessary to carry out the intent and purpose of this 
Resolution including, conducting remote teleconferenced meetings in accordance with Government 
Code section 54953(e) and other applicable provisions of the Brown Act.
4. Effective Date and Term. This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption and shall be 
effective until the earlier of (i) May 18, 2022, or (ii) such time the City Council adopts a subsequent 
resolution in accordance with Government Code section 54953(e)(3) to extend the time during which 
the legislative bodies of the City of San Mateo may continue to teleconference without compliance with 
paragraph (3) of subdivision (b) of section 54953.
40 of 509

--- page 41 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-6049
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
April 18, 2022 
SUBJECT:
US 101/State Route 92 Area Improvement and Multimodal Project – Letter of Support
RECOMMENDATION:
Authorize Mayor Bonilla to send a letter of support on behalf of the City of San Mateo to Congresswoman Speier for the 
San Mateo County Transportation Authority's request for Community Project Funding.
BACKGROUND:
The San Mateo County Transportation Authority (TA) is requesting Community Project Funding to help fund the US 
Highway 101 and State Route 92 (US 101/SR 92) area improvement and multimodal project. This project will realign the US 
101/SR 92 interchange, implement dedicated bicycle facilities and pedestrian access improvements, and construct a transit 
mobility hub. These improvements will ease congestion due to better traffic flow, reduce hazardous vehicle weaving 
incidents, and enhance safety conditions and local connections to and from the highway. The proposed bicycle facilities, 
pedestrian improvements, and transit mobility hub will support commute alternatives and improve local access for all 
modes of transportation. The draft letter of support for the Community Project Funding to Congresswoman Speier is 
included as Attachment 1.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact for submitting this letter of support.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Letter to Congresswoman Speier
STAFF CONTACT
Drew Corbett, City Manager
dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7002
41 of 509

--- page 42 ---
April 18, 2022 
 
 
The Honorable Jackie Speier 
U.S. House of Representatives  
2465 Rayburn House Office Building 
Washington, DC 20515 
 
 
Subject: LETTER OF SUPPORT FOR COMMUNITY PROJECT FUNDING REQUEST FOR US 101/SR 92 AREA 
IMPROVEMENT AND MULTIMODAL PROJECT 
 
 
Dear Representative Speier: 
 
On behalf of the City of San Mateo, I write in support of the San Mateo County Transportation Authority 
(SMCTA) and the City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County (C/CAG)’s Community 
Project Funding Request for the United States Highway 101 and State Route 92 (US 101/SR 92) Area 
Improvement and Multimodal Project (as part of the Fiscal Year 2023 appropriations process). The 
interchange is located in the cities of Foster City and San Mateo in San Mateo County.  
 
The US 101/SR 92 Interchange is an essential connection to the San Francisco Airport, South San 
Francisco biotech industries, Silicon Valley, as well as major East Bay destinations. Under normal 
conditions, over 345,000 vehicles travel through this interchange each day, which is consistently 
identified as the worst interchange in the County in terms of congestion and extended delays.  
 
Throughout the Bay Area, we are seeing a return to pre-pandemic levels of traffic. Heavy traffic volumes 
and inadequate capacity at this interchange can cause traffic to slow to as little as seven miles per hour 
during both the morning and afternoon peak periods. These delays often result in miles of traffic in 
multiple directions as well as significant congestion on our local streets. 
 
Your support will help fund construction related to the realignment of the 101/92 Interchange, 
implementation of dedicated bicycle facilities and pedestrian access improvements in the area, as well 
as a transit mobility hub. The project aims to ease congestion by improving traffic flow, reducing 
hazardous vehicle weaving incidents, and improving safety conditions and local connections to and from 
the highway. The proposed bicycle facilities, pedestrian improvements, and new transit mobility hub will 
support commute alternatives and improve local access for all modes of transportation. The expected 
increase in the use of sustainable modes of travel, namely walking, cycling and use of transit, also help 
to reduce GHG emissions and improve overall quality of life.  
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO  
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR 
 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
                                                     www.cityofsanmateo.org   
(650) 522-7040 
42 of 509

--- page 43 ---
As we all work together to improve our highway system, move more people in fewer vehicles, help 
reduce carbon emissions, and ease congestion, we greatly appreciate SMCTA and C/CAG’s sponsorship 
of this regionally significant project. We hope you will prioritize it for funding as part of the Fiscal Year 
2023 Department of Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill. 
Thank you for your time and consideration. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
Rick Bonilla, Mayor 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43 of 509

--- page 44 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5924
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 18, 2022 
SUBJECT:
On-Call Traffic Engineering Data Collection Services – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with Innovative Data Acquisitions, LLC dba IDAX Data Solutions for on-call 
traffic engineering data collection services in the amount of $110,000 for a new agreement total of an amount not to 
exceed $200,000, extend the term of the agreement, authorize the Public Works Director to execute term extension 
amendments within the agreement amount, and authorize the Public Works Director to execute Amendment No. 1 in 
substantially the form approved.
BACKGROUND:
In October 2019, the City reviewed quotes from two vendors for on-call traffic engineering data collection services and 
selected Innovative Data Acquisitions, LLC dba IDAX Data Solutions (IDAX) as the most qualified to provide the needed 
services. Public Works entered into a three-year agreement with IDAX for services including radar speed surveys, speed 
surveys with pneumatic tubes, average daily traffic counts, and intersection and turning movement counts. The data 
collected is used for various analyses, including traffic signal modifications, pedestrian crosswalk requests, and stop sign 
warrants. 
Since the execution of the initial agreement, staff has used IDAX’s services frequently due to high demand for data 
collection to fulfill numerous project needs and resident requests. The current budget for the agreement is close to being 
expended, and the current agreement term ends in October 2022. The term extension and additional budget are 
estimated to provide for the traffic data collection needs for an additional three years through June 30, 2025.  Staff 
recommends the City Council approve Amendment No. 1 augmenting the agreement by $110,000, increasing the total not-
to-exceed amount from $90,000 to $200,000, and extending the term of the agreement.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Budget for data collection services comes from various sources. There are sufficient funds in the Traffic Engineering and 
Citywide Parking and Transportation operating budgets to fund expected services to be provided. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This amendment to the professional services agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with 
certainty that there is no possibility that the activity may have a significant effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15061(b)(3).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
44 of 509

--- page 45 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Amendment
STAFF CONTACT
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
Bethany Lopez, Senior Traffic Engineer
blopez@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7313
45 of 509

--- page 46 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 2
Rev 7/21
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND INNOVATIVE DATA ACQUISITIONS, LLC dba
IDAX DATA SOLUTIONS FOR
ON-CALL TRAFFIC ENGINEERING DATA COLLECTION SERVICES
($90,000 [Original Amount], $110,000 [added amount)
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
Innovative Data Acquisitions, LLC dba IDAX Data Solutions (“Consultant”), entered into a Professional 
Consultant Services Agreement for On-Call Traffic Engineering Data Collection Services (“Agreement”) 
on October 21, 2019; and
WHEREAS, City and Consultant wish to amend the Agreement to extend the term and increase 
the not to exceed amount for this Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 4, “Term,” of the Agreement is amended to read:
“The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on October 14, 
2019 and be completed on or about June 30, 2025. The term of this Agreement may be
extended by written amendment executed by the Director of Public Works and a duly
authorized representative of Consultant.”
2. 
Section 5, “Payment,” of the Agreement is amended as follows:
Payment shall be made by City only for services rendered and upon submission of a 
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In 
consideration for the full performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees 
to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount not to exceed $200,000, pursuant to the rates 
stated in Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference.
3.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
46 of 509

--- page 47 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 2 of 2
Rev 7/21
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Innovative Data Solutions, LLC dba IDAX Data 
Solutions have executed this Amendment on ___________________.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Azalea Mitch
Public Works Director
Date
Joseph Ciccarelli
Its Authorized Agent
Operations Manager
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus 
an additional corporate officer 
(i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who 
shall sign below.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Linh P. Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Date
47 of 509

--- page 48 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-6042
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 18, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Immediate Action Projects, Package II – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 5 to the agreement with Stantec Consulting Services, Inc., to provide professional design services 
and engineering services during construction for Immediate Action Projects Package II in the amount of $88,673.46, 
revising the total agreement amount not to exceed $1,562,403.46, extend the term through September 15, 2022, and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
The Clean Water Program (CWP) includes significant infrastructure upgrades at the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP). 
The Immediate Action Projects, Package II (IAP-II) includes scope to improve the aging solids handling systems at the 
WWTP. In August 2017, the City executed a professional design services agreement in the amount of $876,000 with 
Stantec Consulting Services, Inc. (Stantec) for IAP-II. Amendment 2 was executed in March 2019, adding $517,930 for 
additional design services and engineering services during construction (ESDC). Amendment 3, executed in May 2021, 
added $79,800 for additional ESDC due to delays in the construction schedule and extended the agreement through 
December 31, 2021. 
The IAP-II project has continued to experience multiple challenges leading to additional construction delays, resulting in an 
extended timeframe during which Stantec's ESDC are necessary. As a result, Amendment 3, executed in December 2021, 
extended the term of Stantec's agreement through March 31, 2022 at no additional cost. Most recently, Amendment 4 
extended the term for an additional month, through April 2022, to allow enough time to bring the proposed Amendment 5 
to the City Council requesting additional ESDC funds and to further extend the term of the Agreement. Amendment 5 
would add $88,673.46 for a new total not-to-exceed cost of $1,562,403.46 and extend the agreement through September 
15, 2022. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Approving Amendment 5 will increase Stantec's not-to-exceed agreement amount by $88,673.46. The overall IAP-II project 
budget includes sufficient remaining unencumbered funds to cover this expense. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The Council adopted the Final Programmatic EIR for the Clean Water Program on June 6, 2016. In addition, under section 
15031 of the CEQA Guidelines, IAP-II is categorically exempt from CEQA review as repairs and maintenance of existing 
facilities and equipment with negligible or no expansion in use.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
48 of 509

--- page 49 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Amendment No. 5
STAFF CONTACT
Matt Fabry, Deputy Director
mfabry@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7309
Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7303
49 of 509

--- page 50 ---
1
AMENDMENT NO. 5 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND
Stantec Consulting Services, Inc. FOR
Immediate Action Projects Package II
($876,000 [Original Amount], $517,930 [Amendment 1], $79,800 [Amendment 2], 
$0 [Amendment 3], $0 [Amendment 4], $88,673.46 [Amendment 5])
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“CITY”), a municipal corporation of the 
State of California, and Stantec Consulting Services, Inc. (“CONSULTANT”), entered 
into an Agreement for Professional Consulting Services (“Agreement”) on August 29, 
2017 for the WWTP Immediate Action Project Package II (“Project”); and
WHEREAS, the Agreement includes CONSULTANT’s design services for a 
sludge cake hopper and cake pumping system to be located at the CITY’s wastewater 
treatment plant; and
WHEREAS, challenges related to the design and/or construction have resulted in 
a non-functional sludge cake hopper and cake pumping system; and
WHEREAS, CITY and CONSULTANT are assessing potential solutions to 
address these challenges; and
WHEREAS, CITY and CONSULTANT agree that CONSULTANT’s services 
are still required for the Project; and
WHEREAS, on March 31, 2022, the parties executed Amendment 4 for a no-cost 
extension of the Agreement until April 30, 2022; and
WHEREAS, the CITY and CONSULTANT desire to further amend the 
Agreement by extending the term through September 15, 2022, and adding $88,673.46 in 
funding for CONSULTANT’s design engineering services required to complete the 
construction of the Project that are unrelated to any alleged errors or deficiencies on 
behalf of either party; and 
WHEREAS, this Amendment is not an admission of responsibility or any waiver 
of claims by the CITY or the CONSULTANT, including but not limited to 
CONSULTANT’s claims for compensation for Task 6 Construction Phase Services 
related to the sludge cake hopper and cake pumping system, which CITY contends are 
not reimbursable because the services were required to correct alleged error or 
deficiencies of CONSULTANT.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 8, “Payment,” of the Agreement, first paragraph is amended to 
read:
50 of 509

--- page 51 ---
2
“Payment shall be made by the CITY only for services rendered and upon 
submission of a payment request upon completion and CITY approval of 
the work performed. In consideration for the full performances of the 
services and any reimbursable expenses set forth in this Agreement, CITY 
agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee based on verified time and materials 
not to exceed $1,562,403.46. Requests for payments shall be itemized and 
correspond to the various items of work described in the Scope of Project, 
inclusive of the current Scope of Services as provided therein, and shall be 
based on the rate and cost schedule previously established.”
2.
Section 7, “Term, Progress and Completion,” of the Agreement, first 
paragraph, is amended to read: 
“The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence and 
be completed by no later than September 15, 2022.”  
3.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Stantec Consulting Services, Inc.
______________________________
___________________________________
Azalea Mitch,
            Kari D. Shively, PE
Public Works Director
Vice President
Date:  ____________________
Date:  ____________________
Approved as to Form:
_____________________________
Linh P. Nguyen, Assistant City Attorney
51 of 509

--- page 52 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5902
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 18, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Rodder Truck and Vac-Con Truck – Purchase Contracts 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and approve a contract with National Auto Fleet Group 
for the purchase of one Rodder Truck from Nixon-Egli Equipment Company for $271,665.51 and one Vac-Con Combination 
Sewer and Storm Drain Cleaner from Vac-Con Inc. for $588,981.10, for a total purchase amount of $860,646.61, and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the purchase contracts in substantially the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
The Public Works Field Maintenance Crew currently utilizes a 2008 Ford F650 Rodder Truck and a 2009 International 7400 
Workstar – Vac-Con Sewer Flusher Truck.  These two sewer vehicles are both between 12-14 years old and at the end of 
their useful life based on years in service, mileage, condition, and cost of maintenance.  Staff recommends replacing these 
two sewer vehicles to ensure reliability.
The 877-TK Rodder truck is the recommended replacement vehicle for the existing 2008 Ford F650 Rodder Truck and the 
Vac-Con Model V311HE/1300LHA-P Combination Sewer and Storm Drain Cleaner is the recommended replacement for the 
existing 2009 International 7400 Workstar – Vac-Con Sewer Flusher truck.  For specialized equipment such as these sewer 
vehicles, there are limited procurement sources available to government agencies and are typically limited to contracts 
with either Sourcewell (formerly NJPA) or State of California Department of General Services (DGS). Both Sourcewell and 
DGS conduct competitive, public bids to select vehicle vendors to achieve competitive pricing; however, staff has had 
difficulty purchasing these types of specialty vehicles through DGS due to vendors’ unwillingness to execute the City’s 
purchasing agreement. Accordingly, staff recommends purchase of the Rodder and Vac-Con vehicles through Sourcewell. 
San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to approve an alternative purchasing 
procedure when it finds doing so is in the best interest of the City.  The purchase of one Rodder Truck from Nixon-Egli 
Company and one Vac-Con Combination Sewer and Storm Drain Cleaner truck from Vac-Con, Inc. is in the best interest of 
the City because they are recommended replacements for existing sewer trucks and the City may rely on bids obtained 
from Sourcewell because it is a government organization that has solicited, received, and reviewed competitive bids for 
the desired sewer trucks through its cooperative purchasing program.  Based on the above, staff recommends the 
purchase of these two required sewer vehicles.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding for the two replacement vehicles is available in the Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
52 of 509

--- page 53 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
 These purchases are not projects subject to CEQA because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All noticing requirements were met. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Rodder Purchase Agreement
Att 3 – Vac-Con Purchase Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Matthew Zucca, Deputy Director
mzucca@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7308
53 of 509

--- page 54 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ 2022
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR THE PURCHASE OF ONE RODDER TRUCK AND 
ONE VAC-CON TRUCK 
WHEREAS, the City Council is being asked to award contracts for the purchase of one (1) Rodder truck in 
the amount of $271,665.51 and one (1) Vac-Con truck in the amount of $588,981.10 to replace two aging sewer 
vehicles; and 
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.030 generally requires competitive bidding for 
contacts of $100,000 or more; and 
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to approve an 
alternative purchasing procedure when it is in the best interest of the City; and
WHEREAS, Sourcewell offers services to make the government procurement process more efficient 
through cooperative purchasing; and
 
WHEREAS, the use of Sourcewell – Contract #101221-VAC offers competitive pricing for the Vac-Con 
Model V311HE/1300LHA-P Combination Sewer and Storm Drain Cleaner from Municipal Maintenance 
Equipment; and
WHEREAS, the one Vac-Con Combination Sewer and Storm Drain Cleaner truck with the specifications 
and capabilities meet the requirements of the City; and
WHEREAS, the use of Sourcewell – Contract #122017-SCA offers competitive pricing for the Sewer 
Equipment 877-TK Rodder from Nixon-EGLI Equipment Co.; and
WHEREAS, the one Sewer Equipment 877-TK Rodder truck with the specifications and capabilities meet 
the requirements of the City; and
WHEREAS, based on these circumstances, staff recommends the purchase of one Vac-Con Combination 
Sewer and Storm Drain Cleaner truck and one Sewer Equipment 877-TK Rodder Truck because it is in the best 
interest of the City without standard competitive bid practice.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that: 
1.
The purchase of two sewer vehicles are not projects subject to CEQA because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
2.
In accordance with Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3), the purchase of the Vac-Con Model 
V311HE/1300LHA-P Combination Sewer and Storm Drain Cleaner truck and Sewer Equipment 877-TK 
Rodder truck based on pricing from Sourcewell are in the City’s best interest for these reasons:
54 of 509

--- page 55 ---
a.
Nixon-EGLI Equipment Company is the company that produces the Sewer Equipment 877-TK 
Rodder truck that meets the City’s requirements;
b.
Vac-Con is the company that manufactures the Vac-Con Model V311HE/1300LHA-P 
Combination Sewer and Storm Drain Cleaner truck that meets the City’s requirements;
c.
The City has obtained competitive prices for the Sewer Equipment 877-TK Rodder truck with 
Sourcewell – Contract #122017-SCA from Nixon-Egli Equipment Company;
d.
The City has obtained competitive prices for the Vac-Con Model V311HE/1300LHA-P with 
Sourcewell- Contract #101221-VAC from Municipal Maintenance Equipment; and
e.
Sourcewell competitively bid the contracts to provide the listed equipment and the bids were 
won by Nixon-EGLI and Municipal Maintenance Equipment for their respective vehicles.
3.
The procedure utilized by staff of obtaining Sourcewell – Contract # 122017-SCA with Nixon-EGLI 
Equipment Co. pricing for one Sewer Equipment 877-TK Rodder truck and Sourcewell Contract #101221-
VAC for Vac-Con Model V311HE/1300LHA-P with Municipal Maintenance Equipment for one Vac-Con 
truck are approved in accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3).
4.
The purchase of one Rodder Truck from Nixon-Egli Equipment Co. in the amount of $271,665.51 and one 
Vac-Con Combination Sewer and Storm Drain Cleaner from Vac-Con Inc. in the amount of $588,981.10 
for a total purchase amount of $860,646.61 is approved.
5.
The Public Works Director is authorized to execute the purchase contracts on behalf of the City.
55 of 509

--- page 56 ---
PURCHASE CONTRACT
FOR THE PURCHASE OF ONE Sewer Equipment Company of America Model 877-TK Truck Mounted PTO Drive 
Continuous Rodder Truck 
FROM NIXON-EGLI EQUIPMENT CO.
This Purchase Contract (“Contract”), made and entered into this day of ___________________, by and 
between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and NIXON-EGLI EQUIPMENT CO. a Corporation (“VENDOR”).
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires to purchase certain Sewer Equipment Company of America Model 877-TK Truck 
Mounted PTO Drive Continuous Rodder truck hereinafter described.
B.
CITY desires to engage VENDOR to provide these Sewer Equipment Company of America Model 877-
TK Truck Mounted PTO Drive Continuous Rodder truck by reason of its qualifications and experience and VENDOR 
has offered to provide the required goods on the terms and in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - PURCHASE
The goods to be purchased from VENDOR under this Contract are described in Exhibit A to this Agreement, 
which is attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - PRICE AND TAXES
All prices shall be as stated in this Contract and are firm and not subject to escalation.  This purchase 
is subject to all California sales tax.  Municipalities are exempt from federal excise and transportation taxes.  Prices 
shall exclude these taxes.  
SECTION 3 - PAYMENT
Unless otherwise agreed in writing, payment terms shall be net thirty (30) days from date of receipt of 
invoice or acceptance of goods, whichever occurs last.  Invoices must cite the purchase order number to prevent 
delay in payment.  All invoices must be mailed to City of San Mateo, Attn:  Accounts Payable, 330 West 20th 
Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403.
SECTION 4 - DELIVERY AND PERFORMANCE
Time is of the essence in the performance of this Contract.  If delivery of goods cannot be made at the 
specified time, VENDOR shall promptly notify the CITY of the earliest possible date for delivery.  Notwithstanding 
such notice, if VENDOR for any reason fails to deliver goods within the time specified or to the CITY’s satisfaction 
the CITY may terminate this Contract or any part thereof without liability except for goods previously provided and 
accepted.  The CITY’s receipt or acceptance of all or part of a non-conforming delivery shall not constitute a waiver 
of any claim, right or remedy the CITY has under this Contract or applicable law. 
56 of 509

--- page 57 ---
SECTION 5 - SHIPMENT AND INSPECTION
VENDOR assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, packing, handling, 
insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products.  No charges for transportation containers, 
packing, etc., will be allowed the vendor unless so specified in this Contract.  All shipments shall be F.O. B 1961 
Pacific Blvd, San Mateo, CA 94403.  Transportation charges shall be shown as a separate item on the invoice.
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped.  The CITY shall have the right 
to inspect any or all of the goods at VENDOR’s place of business or upon receipt by the CITY.  By reason of its 
failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have accepted any defective goods or goods which do 
not conform to the specifications provided or to have waived any of the CITY’s rights or remedies arising by virtue 
of such defects or non-conformance.  VENDOR shall be responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any 
defective goods.  Shipping documents and invoices must cite the Purchase Order number.
SECTION 6 - WARRANTIES
In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise agreed in writing, VENDOR 
warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be new, suitable for use as described, of the grade and quality 
specified, free from all defects in design, material and workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, 
descriptions and specifications furnished; in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and 
regulations, and free of any liens and encumbrances.  These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude VENDOR’s 
standard warranties or other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or obtain.
SECTION 7 - INDEMNITY
VENDOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of VENDOR’s 
performance of this Contract, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole negligence or willful misconduct.  
VENDOR agrees to defend CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.
SECTION 8 - TERMINATION
This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by the CITY at its discretion.  The 
CITY may cancel an order for goods at any time with written notice to VENDOR, stating the extent and effective 
date of termination.  Upon receipt of this written notice, VENDOR shall stop performance under this Contract as 
directed by the CITY.  If the Contract is terminated, VENDOR shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the 
Contract for goods delivered and accepted.
SECTION 9 - REMEDIES
In the event of VENDOR’s breach of this Contract, City may take any or all of the following actions, without 
prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the City by law:  (a) require Vendor to repair or replace such 
goods, and upon VENDOR’s failure or refusal to do so, repair or replace the same at VENDOR’s expense; (b) reject 
any shipment or delivery containing defective or nonconforming goods and return for credit or replacement at 
VENDOR’s option, said return to be made at VENDOR’s cost and risk; (c) cancel any outstanding deliveries and treat 
such breach by VENDOR as VENDOR’s repudiation of this contract.  In the event of the CITY’s breach hereunder, 
VENDOR’s exclusive remedy shall be VENDOR’s recovery of the goods or the purchase price payable for goods 
shipped prior to such breach.
57 of 509

--- page 58 ---
SECTION 10 - COMPLIANCE WITH LAW
VENDOR warrants that it will comply with all federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, rules and regulations 
applicable to its performance under this Contract.  VENDOR shall obtain and maintain throughout the life of the 
Contract all permits or licenses required in connection with the manufacture, sale, and shipment of the products 
ordered under this Contract.  
SECTION 11 - ASSIGNMENT
VENDOR shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or assign any rights or claims under this 
Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent.
SECTION 12 - ARTWORK, DESIGNS, PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS AND TRADEMARKS
VENDOR hereby agrees that the sale, use or incorporation into manufactured products of all machines, 
software, hardware, materials and other devices furnished under this Contract are free and clear of infringement 
of any valid patent, copyright, or trademark.  VENDOR shall hold the CITY harmless from any and all costs and 
expenses, including attorney fees, liability, and loss of any kind growing out of claims, suits or actions alleging such 
infringement, and VENDOR agrees to defend such claims, suits or actions.
SECTION 13 - GOVERNING LAW
This Purchase Order and the contract between the parties evidenced hereby or attached thereto shall be 
deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be construed and governed by the laws of 
that state.
SECTION 14 - VENUE
In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.  
SECTION 15 - WAIVER
The waiver of any term, condition or provision hereof shall not be construed to be a waiver of any other 
such term, condition or provision, nor shall such waiver be deemed a waiver of a subsequent breach of the same 
term, condition or provision.
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in an amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and in total amount not exceeding 
$5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to 
enforce the provisions of this Contract.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in 
the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  
It is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for attorney fees 
arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Contract.
58 of 509

--- page 59 ---
SECTION 17 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Contract, any party may request that it be submitted to mediation.  The 
parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating 
parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either 
the American Arbitration Association, the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-
upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a "blindfolded" process.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the prevailing 
party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith 
attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once commenced by a meeting with the 
mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time 
is extended by the parties.
SECTION 18 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
To CITY:
Matt Zucca, Public Works Deputy 
Director
City of San Mateo
1961 Pacific Blvd.
San Mateo, CA, 94403
To VENDOR:
Nixon-Egli Equipment Co.
Attn:  Evan Haase
800 East Grant Line Road
Tracy, CA 95376
SECTION 19 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and VENDOR and supersedes 
all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and VENDOR.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
59 of 509

--- page 60 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Municipal Maintenance Equipment, Inc. have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
VENDOR
Azalea Mitch
Public Works Director
Its Authorized Agent
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Linh Nguyen, Assistant City Attorney
60 of 509

--- page 61 ---
Exhibit A
 SO. CALIFORNIA: 2044 South Vineyard Avenue, Ontario, CA 91761  (909) 930-1822  FAX (909) 923-2356
 NO. CALIFORNIA: 800 East Grant Line Road, Tracy, CA 95376  (209) 830-8600  FAX (209) 830-8884
January 14th, 2022
City of San Mateo 
1961 Pacific Blvd. 
San Mateo, CA 94403
San Mateo Contract# 2426
Sewer Equipment Contract# 122017-SCA 
Quote# 100434
Attention: Harry Siddall
Reference: Updated Sewer Equipment 877-TK Rodder Quote, 1/14/2022 
Dear Mr. Siddall,
We are pleased to quote you one (1) new Sewer Equipment Company of America Model 877-TK Truck
Mounted PTO Drive Continuous Rodder unit including the following Standard and Optional (Included in Bold) 
features:
Chassis

2023 Freightliner M2 106 Conventional Chassis

Cummins B6.7 250 Horsepower Diesel engine

Allison 3000 RDS Automatic transmission – 6 speed

153” Wheelbase and 87” Cab to Axle

33,000 GVWR; 12,000 lb. front axle, 21,000 lb. rear axle

Fuel Tank - 50 US Gallons – LH Mount – Aluminum

Air ride driver and passenger seats

Dual West Coast style side mirrors - heated

Air conditioning

Gray interior

AM/FM radio

Cab air suspension

Steel wheels-painted

Michelin tires
Rodder:

Gear Driven Rod Drive Roller System with 7000 lbs. of Pull (Automatic Hydraulic Hold Down System)

72” Rod Storage Reel with 1200’ of .393 Rod in Direct Hydraulic Motor Driven Yoke with Spring Loaded 
Torque Arm

Electrical System

Lighted NEMA 4 Control Panel

Hydraulic System, Single Lever Control

Friction Footage Meter

Cumulative Footage Meter

Independent Relief Valves and Gauges for Forward/Reverse

Single Lever Hydraulic Control

Oiler for Rod
61 of 509

--- page 62 ---
 SO. CALIFORNIA: 2044 South Vineyard Avenue, Ontario, CA 91761  (909) 930-1822  FAX (909) 923-2356
 NO. CALIFORNIA: 800 East Grant Line Road, Tracy, CA 95376  (209) 830-8600  FAX (209) 830-8884
Truck:

One Piece Steel Shroud

Heavy Duty Frame

Full Decking

Skirting

Handrail

Three (3) Toolboxes

Mudflaps

Bumper

Rear Back Up Camera System with 7” Color Monitor
Lighting

Compartment Lighting

LED Floodlight

Three (3) LED Strobe Lights, Front Mounted (1), Driver Side (1), & Passenger Side (1)

Two (2) LED Arrow Sticks, Front Mounted (1) & Rear Mounted (1)

Handheld Wireless 12v/110v Rechargeable LED Spotlight with Storage Bracket
Accessories:

25’ Lightweight Hose Guide and Bell with Aluminum Couplings

Single Prong Brace

Snap on Pliers with Cleaners

Two (2) Assembly Wrenches

Paper Operator Manual

USB Operator Manual

Six (6) 18” D.O.T. Safety Cones and Holder
62 of 509

--- page 63 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 8 of 9
Rev 9/17
 SO. CALIFORNIA: 2044 South Vineyard Avenue, Ontario, CA 91761  (909) 930-1822  FAX (909) 923-2356
 NO. CALIFORNIA: 800 East Grant Line Road, Tracy, CA 95376  (209) 830-8600  FAX (209) 830-8884
Sourcewell 877-TK Rodder Price:
$160,298.00
Sourcewell Discount (3%):
($4,808.94)
Sub Total:
$155,489.06
Freightliner Chassis:
$81,300.00
PDI, Training/Start Up, DMV, Etc. :
$9,200.00
Taxable Subtotal:
$245,989.06
9.625% Sales Tax:
$23,676.45
Delivery Freight:
$2,000.00
Sales Price with Tax:
$271,665.51
*The above price(s) are valid for 30 days and are plus all 
applicable tax.
Thank you for the opportunity to quote on your equipment needs. Should you have any further 
questions, please feel free to contact me.
Sincerely,
NIXON-EGLI EQUIPMENT CO.
Evan Haase
Evan Haase
Municipal 
Area 
Manager 
(510) 301-
7715
ehaase@nixonegli.com
63 of 509

--- page 64 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 9 of 9
Rev 9/17
64 of 509

--- page 65 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 1 of 10
Rev 9/17
PURCHASE CONTRACT
FOR THE PURCHASE OF ONE VAC-CON Combination Sewer and Storm Drain Cleaner MOUNTED ON A 
New FREIGHTLINER 114SD 6x4 TRUCK CHASSIS
FROM VAC-CON INC.
This Purchase Contract (“Contract”), made and entered into this day of ___________________, 
by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State 
of California (“CITY”), and VAC-CON, INC. a Corporation (“VENDOR”).
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires to purchase certain Vac-Con Model V311HE/1300LHA-P mounted on a new 
Freightliner 114SD 6x4 truck chassis hereinafter described.
B.
CITY desires to engage VENDOR to provide these Vac-Con Model V311HE/1300LHA-P 
Combination Sewer and Storm Drain Cleaner mounted on a new Freightliner 114SD 6x4 truck chassis 
by reason of its qualifications and experience and VENDOR has offered to provide the required goods 
on the terms and in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - PURCHASE
The goods to be purchased from VENDOR under this Contract are described in Exhibit A to this 
Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - PRICE AND TAXES
All prices shall be as stated in this Contract and are firm and not subject to escalation.  
This purchase is subject to all California sales tax.  Municipalities are exempt from federal excise and 
transportation taxes.  Prices shall exclude these taxes.  
SECTION 3 - PAYMENT
Unless otherwise agreed in writing, payment terms shall be net thirty (30) days from date of 
receipt of invoice or acceptance of goods, whichever occurs last.  Invoices must cite the purchase order 
number to prevent delay in payment.  All invoices must be mailed to City of San Mateo, Attn:  Accounts 
Payable, 330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403.
65 of 509

--- page 66 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 2 of 10
Rev 9/17
SECTION 4 - DELIVERY AND PERFORMANCE
Time is of the essence in the performance of this Contract.  If delivery of goods cannot be made 
at the specified time, VENDOR shall promptly notify the CITY of the earliest possible date for delivery.  
Notwithstanding such notice, if VENDOR for any reason fails to deliver goods within the time specified 
or to the CITY’s satisfaction the CITY may terminate this Contract or any part thereof without liability 
except for goods previously provided and accepted.  The CITY’s receipt or acceptance of all or part of a 
non-conforming delivery shall not constitute a waiver of any claim, right or remedy the CITY has under 
this Contract or applicable law. 
SECTION 5 - SHIPMENT AND INSPECTION
VENDOR assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, packing, 
handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products.  No charges for 
transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the vendor unless so specified in this Contract.  
All shipments shall be F.O. B 1961 Pacific Blvd, San Mateo, CA 94403.  Transportation charges shall be 
shown as a separate item on the invoice.
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped.  The CITY shall 
have the right to inspect any or all of the goods at VENDOR’s place of business or upon receipt by the 
CITY.  By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have accepted any 
defective goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to have waived any of 
the CITY’s rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non-conformance.  VENDOR shall be 
responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any defective goods.  Shipping documents and 
invoices must cite the Purchase Order number.
SECTION 6 - WARRANTIES
In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise agreed in 
writing, VENDOR warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be new, suitable for use as 
described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, material and 
workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and specifications furnished; in 
compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and free of any liens and 
encumbrances.  These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude VENDOR’s standard warranties or 
other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or obtain.
SECTION 7 - INDEMNITY
VENDOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of VENDOR’s performance of this Contract, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  VENDOR agrees to defend CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents against any such claims.
66 of 509

--- page 67 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 3 of 10
Rev 9/17
SECTION 8 - TERMINATION
This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by the CITY at its 
discretion.  The CITY may cancel an order for goods at any time with written notice to VENDOR, stating 
the extent and effective date of termination.  Upon receipt of this written notice, VENDOR shall stop 
performance under this Contract as directed by the CITY.  If the Contract is terminated, VENDOR shall 
be paid in accordance with the terms of the Contract for goods delivered and accepted.
SECTION 9 - REMEDIES
In the event of VENDOR’s breach of this Contract, City may take any or all of the following 
actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the City by law:  (a) require 
Vendor to repair or replace such goods, and upon VENDOR’s failure or refusal to do so, repair or 
replace the same at VENDOR’s expense; (b) reject any shipment or delivery containing defective or 
nonconforming goods and return for credit or replacement at VENDOR’s option, said return to be 
made at VENDOR’s cost and risk; (c) cancel any outstanding deliveries and treat such breach by 
VENDOR as VENDOR’s repudiation of this contract.  In the event of the CITY’s breach hereunder, 
VENDOR’s exclusive remedy shall be VENDOR’s recovery of the goods or the purchase price payable for 
goods shipped prior to such breach.
SECTION 10 - COMPLIANCE WITH LAW
VENDOR warrants that it will comply with all federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, rules 
and regulations applicable to its performance under this Contract.  VENDOR shall obtain and maintain 
throughout the life of the Contract all permits or licenses required in connection with the manufacture, 
sale, and shipment of the products ordered under this Contract.  
SECTION 11 - ASSIGNMENT
VENDOR shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or assign any rights or claims 
under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent.
SECTION 12 - ARTWORK, DESIGNS, PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS AND TRADEMARKS
VENDOR hereby agrees that the sale, use or incorporation into manufactured products of all 
machines, software, hardware, materials and other devices furnished under this Contract are free and 
clear of infringement of any valid patent, copyright, or trademark.  VENDOR shall hold the CITY 
harmless from any and all costs and expenses, including attorney fees, liability, and loss of any kind 
growing out of claims, suits or actions alleging such infringement, and VENDOR agrees to defend such 
claims, suits or actions.
67 of 509

--- page 68 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 4 of 10
Rev 9/17
SECTION 13 - GOVERNING LAW
This Purchase Order and the contract between the parties evidenced hereby or attached 
thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be construed and 
governed by the laws of that state.
SECTION 14 - VENUE
In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.  
SECTION 15 - WAIVER
The waiver of any term, condition or provision hereof shall not be construed to be a waiver of 
any other such term, condition or provision, nor shall such waiver be deemed a waiver of a subsequent 
breach of the same term, condition or provision.
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in an amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and in total amount not 
exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any 
action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Contract.  The above $5000 limit is the total of 
attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of 
the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It is the intent of this provision that neither party 
shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to 
enforce the provisions of this Contract.
SECTION 17 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Contract, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the California State Board 
of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a 
"blindfolded" process.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
68 of 509

--- page 69 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 5 of 10
Rev 9/17
SECTION 18 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Matt Zucca, Public Works Deputy 
Director
City of San Mateo
1961 Pacific Blvd.
San Mateo, CA, 94403
To VENDOR:
Vac-Con, Inc.
Attn:  M.J. Dubois
969 Hall Park Rd.
Green Cove Springs, FL 32043
SECTION 19 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and VENDOR and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and VENDOR.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
69 of 509

--- page 70 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 6 of 10
Rev 9/17
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Municipal Maintenance Equipment, Inc. have 
executed this Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
VENDOR
Azalea Mitch
Public Works Director
Its Authorized Agent
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Linh Nguyen, Assistant City Attorney
70 of 509

--- page 71 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 7 of 10
Rev 9/17
EXHIBIT A
71 of 509

--- page 72 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 8 of 10
Rev 9/17
72 of 509

--- page 73 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 9 of 10
Rev 9/17
73 of 509

--- page 74 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 10 of 10
Rev 9/17
74 of 509

--- page 75 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5940
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 18, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Program for Arterial System Synchronization Fiscal Year 2021-22 Cycle – Funding Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a Joint Funding Agreement with Metropolitan Transportation Commission for the Program for Arterial System 
Synchronization Fiscal Year 2021-22 Cycle, approve matching funds from the City in the amount of $7,747, and authorize 
the Public Works Director to execute the Agreement in substantially the form approved.
BACKGROUND:
The Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) released a Call for Projects for the Program for Arterial System 
Synchronization (PASS) grant in early 2021. The PASS grant will fund consultant services to develop and implement traffic 
signal coordination along corridors in an effort to improve traffic safety, reduce congestion and travel times, and decrease 
vehicle emissions and fuel consumption, thereby improving the roadways for all users. The grant will also pay for the 
procurement of Global Positioning System (GPS) clocks that will enable synchronization of the traffic signals. The traffic 
signal coordination will be implemented along 19th Avenue, Fashion Island Boulevard, Concar Drive, and Delaware Street, 
as shown in Attachment 2, and involves seven (7) City-owned traffic signals and three (3) Caltrans-owned traffic signals. 
The grant was awarded on July 7, 2021 and, as a condition of the grant, MTC requires the City to execute a Joint Funding 
Agreement, which the City received in early 2022. As shown in Table 1, the PASS grant requires a 12.5% City match for 
consultant services and a 50% match for purchasing the GPS clocks. The total cost for consultant services and the GPS 
clocks will be $30,000 and $8,000, respectively. As such, the required matching funds from the City will be $7,747.
Table 1. Project Costs and Matching Fund Requirements
Staff recommends that Council approve the Joint Funding Agreement for the arterial system synchronization.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Joint Funding Agreement in the amount of $38,000 requires matching funds from the City in the amount of $7,747. 
The City’s contribution will be funded out of the Citywide Traffic Signal Retiming Project, which has adequate funds for this 
agreement.
City
MTC
Total Cost
Consultant Services 
(City – 12.5%; MTC – 87.5%)
$3,747
$26,253
$30,000
GPS Clocks
(City – 50%; MTC – 50%)
$4,000
$4,000
$8,000
Total Contributions
$7,747
$30,253
$38,000
75 of 509

--- page 76 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The approval of this Joint Funding Agreement with designated matching funds by the City, and coordination of traffic signal 
timing is categorically exempt from CEQA review as an “existing facility” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, or minor alteration of existing public structures and mechanical equipment involving negligible or no 
expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – PASS FY2021-22 Joint Funding Agreement
Att 2 – Project Area Map
STAFF CONTACT
Mike Kato, Associate Engineer
mkato@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7377
76 of 509

--- page 77 ---
September XX, 2021
Azalea Mitch
Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo
330 W 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
RE: 
PASS FY 21/22 Joint Funding Agreement
Dear Ms. Mitch:
This letter, effective as of August 1, 2021 (“Effective Date”), is the agreement between 
the City of San Mateo (“AGENCY”) and the Metropolitan Transportation Commission 
(“MTC”) for developing and implementing traffic signaling coordination plans for the 
Program for Arterial System Synchronization (PASS) FY 21/22 project, which will be 
jointly funded by MTC and AGENCY (“the Agreement”). AGENCY’s application for 
the FY 21/22 PASS cycle submitted April 16, 2021, is incorporated herein by this 
reference.
1.
It is agreed that with funding under this Agreement, MTC shall engage its 
consultant, DKS Associates (“Consultant”), to perform the project work, 
including but not limited to those specified in Attachment A, Scope of Work, 
attached hereto and incorporated by this reference. 
2.
Consultant’s work will be performed under the direction of Robert Rich, MTC 
Project Manager (herein “MTC Project Manager”).
3.
The effective date of Consultant’s agreement with MTC is August 1, 2021 and 
Consultant’s work is expected to be completed by June 30, 2022.
4.
MTC shall furnish ten (10) GPS clocks that AGENCY shall install and configure at 
the project locations identified in Attachment A, Scope of Work.
5.
MTC will pay Consultant up to thirty thousand dollars ($30,000) as full 
compensation for the satisfactory completion of all services contained in the attached 
scope, as set forth in Attachment B, Project Budget. AGENCY shall forward MTC 
its agreed-upon portion of PASS project cost of seven thousand seven hundred forty-
seven dollars ($7,747).
77 of 509

--- page 78 ---
MTC / City of San Mateo
PASS FY 21/22 Joint Funding Agreement
Page 2
6.
MTC shall invoice AGENCY in the amount of seven thousand seven hundred forty-seven 
dollars ($7,747) billable in lump sum upon the first month after the start of work by 
Consultant. AGENCY shall pay MTC fully upon receipt of an invoice in the amount stated 
above within thirty (30) days of receipt. MTC’s invoice shall be mailed to:
Attention: Michael Kato
Associate Engineer
City of San Mateo
330 W 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
7.
All notices or other communication to either party by the other shall be deemed given when 
made in writing and delivered, mailed, emailed or faxed to such party at their respective 
addresses as follows: 
To MTC:
Attention: Robert Rich
Metropolitan Transportation Commission
375 Beale Street, Suite 800
San Francisco, CA 94105
Email: rrich@bayareametro.gov
To AGENCY :
Attention: Michael Kato
Associate Engineer
City of San Mateo
330 W 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
Email: mkato@cityofsanmateo.org
8.
Performance will begin on the date this Agreement is fully executed and be completed by 
June 30, 2022. 
If you agree, please sign both copies of this letter in the space provided below. Please return one 
copy to us. The other copy is for your records.
Very truly yours,
Therese W. McMillan
Executive Director
78 of 509

--- page 79 ---
MTC / City of San Mateo
PASS FY 21/22 Joint Funding Agreement
Page 3
Accepted and Agreed to: 
Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo
DATE:
79 of 509

--- page 80 ---
MTC / City of San Mateo
PASS FY 21/22 Joint Funding Agreement
Page 4
ATTACHMENT A
SCOPE OF WORK
The services to be performed by Consultant are presented in the following pages excerpted from 
Deliverable 1B (Final Scope, Schedule and Budget) for AGENCY’s FY 21/22 PASS project.
80 of 509

--- page 81 ---
MTC / City of San Mateo
PASS FY 21/22 Joint Funding Agreement
Page 5
81 of 509

--- page 82 ---
MTC / City of San Mateo
PASS FY 21/22 Joint Funding Agreement
Page 6
82 of 509

--- page 83 ---
MTC / City of San Mateo
PASS FY 21/22 Joint Funding Agreement
Page 7
83 of 509

--- page 84 ---
MTC / City of San Mateo
PASS FY 21/22 Joint Funding Agreement
Page 8
84 of 509

--- page 85 ---
MTC / City of San Mateo
PASS FY 21/22 Joint Funding Agreement
Page 9
85 of 509

--- page 86 ---
MTC / City of San Mateo
PASS FY 21/22 Joint Funding Agreement
Page 10
ATTACHMENT A1
PASS Standard Scope of Work
The services to be performed by Consultant shall consist of services requested by the MTC 
Project Manager or a designated representative. At the beginning of each annual project cycle, all 
selected Consultant shall meet with the MTC Project Manager to discuss various aspects of the 
PASS, such as program guidelines, logistics, services, invoices, communication preferences, etc. 
Caltrans staff will also participate in this meeting to discuss their signal timing preferences, if 
applicable. The electronic files of all project deliverables shall be clearly named and dated. The 
project administration guidelines applicable to the particular Cycle of PASS projects shall be 
reviewed and discussed at this meeting. The standard scope of work, schedule and budget for a 
typical PASS project includes, but is not limited to, the following: 
1. Project Kick-off
1.1. Consultant shall coordinate a kick-off meeting with the project sponsors, and MTC 
Project Manager or designated representative. This meeting will help to understand the 
roles and responsibilities of each stakeholder; establish communication channels; discuss 
the deliverable review preferences for each stakeholder; discuss in detail the scope of 
work, schedule, and budget; understand the needs and requirements of all stakeholders; 
gather available data and information; and obtain a thorough understanding of the goals 
of the project. 
1.2. Consultant shall have the opportunity to discuss with the project sponsors and other 
stakeholders their preferences for signal timing, cycle length preferences, status of 
corridor equipment, anticipated construction activities, any helpful “do’s and don’ts, and 
other project related information. 
1.3. Consultant shall prepare the Deliverable 1A: Draft Scope of Work, Schedule and Budget 
report for review by the project sponsors and the MTC Project Manager. This report 
shall include all the details discussed in the kick-off meeting. Consultant shall address all 
of the comments received and submit a revised report to the MTC Project Manager for 
final approval. The approved version will be considered the Deliverable 1B: Final Scope 
of Work, Schedule, and Budget (SSB) for the project.
1.4. Consultant shall revise the SSB if any significant changes are required or requested in 
the approved version during any stage of the project. The revised version shall include 
the nature and details on all of the changes with a revised date and title. Consultant may 
also be asked to perform any additional services described in detail in Task 5: Additional 
Services at any stage of the project. 
Deliverable 1A:
Draft Scope of Work, Schedule, and Budget 
Deliverable 1B:
Final Scope of Work, Schedule, and Budget (SSB)
86 of 509

--- page 87 ---
MTC / City of San Mateo
PASS FY 21/22 Joint Funding Agreement
Page 11
2. Analysis of Existing Conditions
Consultant shall collect and analyze all the data necessary to thoroughly understand existing 
traffic conditions in the project corridors. This stage of the project includes data collection and 
analysis, thorough field observations, input from signal maintenance staff, contractors, vendors, 
etc. regarding any pertinent issues in the project corridors. The purpose of this task is to help the 
project sponsors and other stakeholders understand the current traffic conditions in the project 
corridors, such as traffic patterns, volumes, peak hours, bottlenecks, collision history, hot spots, 
etc.
2.1. Data Collection and field reviews – Consultant shall collect all the data as listed in 
Deliverable 1B: Final Scope of Work, Schedule and Budget (SSB).
2.1.1.
Consultant shall collect existing timing sheets, coordination plans, traffic signal 
as-built drawings, aerial photos and maps, corridor and intersection collision data 
for three years, Synchro and other computer models and data, if available, from 
the project sponsors and other stakeholders.
2.1.2.
Consultant shall conduct peak period turning movement counts at all study 
intersections, including pedestrian and bicycle counts, and seven-day 24-hour 
machine counts (ADT Counts) with vehicle classifications at strategic locations to 
determine periods of coordination. All counts shall be taken during times and 
days that are representative of the times and days for which coordination plans 
shall be developed. No counts shall be taken during the weeks with holidays or 
school breaks, or on the days where the typical traffic patterns are impacted by 
construction activity, major incidents, adverse weather conditions, etc. 
2.1.3.
Consultant shall collect turning movement counts along with bicycle and 
pedestrian counts, using video data collection technologies. MTC prefers this 
method, as the videos help to review any data collection errors, if needed. 
Consultant shall provide access to the raw counts, videos, formatted data, via an 
FTP site or other web-portals approved by all of the stakeholders. Other data 
collection methods shall be considered based on the preference of the project 
sponsor or if video data collection is not feasible. Consultant shall take all the 
steps possible to provide the data to the project sponsors in any or all formats, 
such as PDF, MS Excel and/or Synchro computer models.
2.1.4.
Consultant or their authorized subcontractors’ costs for collecting the turning 
movement counts, with bicycle and pedestrian counts at all project intersections, 
is included in the project budget per intersection. The ADT or the seven-day 24-
hour machine counts are included in the project costs, at the rate of one ADT 
count for every four project signals. Any additional counts have to be approved by 
MTC, and billed at a negotiated rate. 
87 of 509

--- page 88 ---
MTC / City of San Mateo
PASS FY 21/22 Joint Funding Agreement
Page 12
2.1.5.
Consultant shall provide the MTC Project Manager electronic files of all turning 
movement counts, bicycle and pedestrian counts, ADT counts, collision data, all 
developed Synchro models, controller and cabinet photos, and any other project 
related data when requested or at the end of the project, whichever is earliest.
2.1.6.
Consultant shall conduct thorough field reviews at all study intersections and 
street segments to verify lane geometry, speed limits, storage lengths, signal 
phasing, distances between intersections, and crosswalk lengths, even if the 
information is available through other sources, such as aerial photos and speed 
surveys. Consultant shall conduct extensive field reviews at key intersections to 
measure queue lengths and saturation flows for heavy movements with input from 
project sponsors.
2.1.7.
Consultant shall conduct the “before” travel time data, including the number of 
stops, during times and days that are representative of the times and days for 
which coordination plans shall be developed. Consultant shall conduct as many 
runs as possible within the coordination period, but at least a minimum of four 
runs shall be conducted for each direction for each peak period. Consultant shall 
conduct these studies using the floating car method or any method approved by 
the project sponsors.
2.1.8.
Consultant shall verify signal coordination and transit priority capabilities of 
existing equipment and communications infrastructure. Consultant shall take 
digital photos of the controller cabinet and the contents of the controller cabinet, 
at all project locations, unless waived by the project sponsors or MTC. 
2.2. Analysis of Existing Conditions – Consultant shall analyze the data obtained from Task 
2.1 as follows:
2.2.1.
Consultant shall review initial and actuated settings for each study intersection to 
identify opportunities to minimize delay during non-coordination periods and 
enhance pedestrian and bicyclist safety. The analysis shall include, but not be 
limited to, review of minimum and maximum green settings; yellow and red 
times; pedestrian timing; and gap, extension, and reduction settings.
2.2.2.
Consultant shall analyze the intersection and corridor-wide collision data for at 
least three years of available data. This data shall be summarized and evaluated to 
identify any signal timing practices that may help reduce similar potential 
incidents in the future.
2.2.3.
Consultant shall analyze the typical traffic patterns during the peak periods for 
which coordination plans shall be developed. Consultant shall note factors that 
generally affect signal progression including, but not limited to: intersections with 
high pedestrian or bicyclist volumes; over-saturated intersections; uneven lane 
distribution; high volumes of trucks and buses; and presence and location of bus 
stops.
88 of 509

--- page 89 ---
MTC / City of San Mateo
PASS FY 21/22 Joint Funding Agreement
Page 13
2.2.4.
Consultant shall develop models for each peak period project corridors and 
calibrate the model based on travel time and delay studies, and field observations 
of queue lengths and saturation flows for heavy movements at key intersections. 
Consultant shall use the modeling software as per directions from the project 
sponsors.
2.2.5.
Consultant shall summarize the results of the existing conditions analyses in 
Deliverable 2A: Draft Existing Conditions Report for review by the project 
sponsors and MTC Project Manager. At a minimum, the report shall include the 
following: project description; project map showing the intersections and 
services; analysis from the counts; field verification results of the controllers and 
their communication capabilities; factors that are expected to affect progression; 
and model calibration results. 
2.2.6.
Consultant shall meet with the project sponsors to discuss the results of the 
existing conditions analyses and field observations. Consultant shall revise the 
report after addressing the comments received from the project sponsors. 
Consultant shall submit a Response to Comments Report addressing all the 
comments/concerns received from all stakeholders, while submitting the 
Deliverable 2B: Final Existing Conditions Report for approval.
Deliverable 2A:
Draft Existing Conditions Report
Deliverable 2B:
Final Existing Conditions Report, including the Response to 
Comments Report
3. Development of Recommendations
This stage of the project involves the following tasks and deliverables: 
3.1. Consultant shall develop the optimal time-of-day coordination plans after analyzing the 
signal grouping; phasing and phase sequence, including conditional service; cycle 
lengths, splits, offsets; collision diagrams/data and other available data. The Consultant 
shall meet with the project sponsors or submit an interim deliverable to discuss and 
agree on the preliminary signal grouping and cycle lengths. 
3.2. Consultant shall develop recommendations of optimal initial and actuated settings; time-
of-day coordination plans and hours of coordinated operation; and transit signal priority 
plans and hours of operation, if applicable. 
3.3. Consultant shall summarize recommendations in the Deliverable 3A: Draft 
Recommendations Report. The report shall also include a comparison of existing and 
proposed timings, the justifications for the recommended changes, and a description of 
the expected improvements. 
89 of 509

--- page 90 ---
MTC / City of San Mateo
PASS FY 21/22 Joint Funding Agreement
Page 14
3.4. Consultant shall follow the applicable state and federal standards in making these 
recommendations. Any exceptions need to be discussed in detail with the project 
sponsors and the MTC Project Manager.
3.5. Consultant shall meet with the project sponsors to discuss the proposed 
recommendations, justifications and anticipated improvements. Consultant shall revise 
the report after addressing the comments received from the project sponsors. Consultant 
shall submit a Response to Comments Report addressing all the comments/concerns 
received from all stakeholders, while submitting the Deliverable 3B: Revised 
Recommendations Report for approval.
Deliverable 3A:
Draft Recommendations Report 
Deliverable 3B:
Revised Recommendations Report, including the Response to 
Comments Report
4. Implementation and Evaluation
This is the final stage of the project requiring the coordination of all project sponsors and MTC. 
The various tasks involved in this stage include, but are not limited to, the following:
4.1. Consultant shall prepare the appropriate timing sheets in the format requested by the 
project sponsors for review and approval. Consultant shall revise the timing sheets based 
on comments received from the project sponsors.
4.2. Consultant, with the help of project sponsors, shall implement the new timing plans 
remotely or in the field.  Consultant shall use all the resources required to complete this 
task effectively, and any short-comings may impact the Consultant performance during 
the review process.  Consultant shall employ enough staff resources to monitor the 
traffic for the entire duration the new plans are implemented for the first time.  This 
requirement shall be followed any time changes are made to the timing plans during the 
fine-tuning process.  Consultant shall have qualified staff available to immediately 
address any issues or agency concerns that may result from the implementation of the 
new timing plans.
4.3. Consultant, with the help of project sponsors, shall fine-tune the new timing plans to the 
satisfaction of the project sponsors.  Consultant shall fine-tune timings in the field and 
record all changes.  Fine-tuning shall be conducted during times and days that are 
representative of the times and days for which coordination plans were developed.  This 
requires additional field visits to verify and assess any changes made during the fine-
tuning process.
4.4. Consultant shall conduct the “after” travel time and delay studies, including the number 
of stops, during the new coordination periods.  Consultant shall conduct as many runs as 
90 of 509

--- page 91 ---
MTC / City of San Mateo
PASS FY 21/22 Joint Funding Agreement
Page 15
possible within the coordination period, but at least a minimum of four runs shall be 
conducted for each direction for each peak period.  Consultant shall conduct these 
studies using the floating car method or any method approved by the project sponsors.
4.5. Consultant shall calculate measures of effectiveness using the results from the “before” 
and “after” studies. These measures generally include the travel-time savings, emissions 
savings, speed increases, reduction in the number of stops, cost savings from reduced 
emissions and benefit-cost analysis results. The methodology used for these calculations 
shall be provided or approved by the MTC Project Manager.
4.6. Consultant shall submit a Deliverable 4A: Draft Project Report, which shall include the 
following for each PASS project: overview, goals and objectives, corridors and services, 
project map, results from the data collection and analyses, the preliminary 
recommendations, new timings implementation, fine-tuning results, comparison of the 
old and new timings, etc. The report will also include any unique issues that were 
resolved and any qualitative benefits achieved with the project. The qualitative benefits 
will generally include the benefits to pedestrians, benefits to bicyclists, effects on transit, 
traffic safety, etc. 
4.7. Consultant shall revise the report after addressing the comments received from the 
project sponsors and the MTC Project Manager. Consultant shall submit a Response to 
Comments Report addressing all the comments/concerns received from all stakeholders, 
while submitting the Deliverable 4B: Final Project Report for approval.
4.8. Consultant shall assist MTC in producing Fact Sheets for each project by providing the 
required maps, tables, data or text as requested by the MTC Project Manager. 
Task 4:
Preliminary Implementation and Fine-tuning
Deliverable 4A:
Draft Project Report with Benefit-Cost Analysis, including the 
computer models
Deliverable 4B:
Final Project Report with Benefit-Cost Analysis, including the 
computer models and Response to Comments Report
5. Additional Services
In addition to the basic signal coordination plans, the Consultant may also be asked to provide 
additional services related to the PASS projects. These services shall be requested by the project 
sponsor in their application and shall be included in the SSB, contingent upon approval by MTC 
Project Manager. Consultant shall include a detailed description of the scope of the additional 
service, a staffing plan, and level of effort, additional budget, and payment schedule in the SSB. 
If the scope of work and budget for these services cannot be reasonably negotiated, MTC, at its 
sole discretion, can withdraw the project assignment from the Consultant and assign a different 
Consultant to the project. Additional services may be requested at any stage of the project, as 
needed, and shall be included in a revised SSB, if approved by the MTC Project Manager.
91 of 509

--- page 92 ---
MTC / City of San Mateo
PASS FY 21/22 Joint Funding Agreement
Page 16
5.1. Consultant may be asked to develop additional timing plans, such as incident 
management flush plans, transit signal priority plans, traffic responsive timing plans, 
weekend timing plans, school peak timing plans, etc. Such services may include 
additional meetings, additional data collection, field visits, technical analyses, studies, 
fine-tuning, conditional diagrams, etc. 
5.2. Consultants, with the help of the transit agency, may be asked to review the existing 
capabilities or conditions of the transit signal priority of buses serving the project 
corridors. The PASS will also provide help in establishing communication between the 
signals and buses as this step is crucial to implementing new transit signal priority plans.
5.3. Consultant may be asked to work on some pilot tasks/projects to help with the expansion 
of PASS projects and services. These pilot tasks/projects will help MTC understand the 
level of effort, budget, and potential benefits to mobility and air quality that could help 
expand future cycles of the Program. The pilot tasks/projects may include, but not be 
limited to: development of advanced signal timing plans; Systems Engineering analyses; 
and ITS Engineering and Design.
5.4. Consultant may be asked to perform these additional services for any projects retimed in 
the last two years under the PASS. These tasks may also include updating coversheets, 
reformatting timing plans, evaluating the effects of new timing plans, etc. 
5.5. Consultant may be asked to subcontract an electrical contractor or other firms with 
required licenses and expertise to install GPS clocks or other communications equipment 
for certain projects. Consultant may be asked to coordinate the installation of these 
equipment including assisting the local agencies in securing any permits required for the 
project.
5.6. Consultant may be asked to prepare presentation materials and/or make formal 
presentations on the PASS project to various policy boards and commissions. 
5.7. Consultant may be asked to assist in organizing seminars on various topics that 
contribute to improved mobility and emissions reductions. The typical tasks include 
developing seminar outlines, securing speakers, preparing presentation materials, etc. 
6. Reduced Services
Consultant may be requested to not perform some of the services listed above for certain 
projects. If reduced services are requested by the project sponsor or the MTC Project Manager, 
Consultant shall clearly document all relevant details in the SSB. The fee for reduced services 
shall be a percentage of the base fee per intersection, or a negotiated amount, which is 
commensurate with the proportion of services reduced. If these cannot be reasonably negotiated, 
MTC, at its sole discretion, can withdraw the project assignment from the Consultant and assign 
a different Consultant to the project.
92 of 509

--- page 93 ---
MTC / City of San Mateo
PASS FY 21/22 Joint Funding Agreement
Page 17
ATTACHMENT B
PROJECT BUDGET 
The following table provides the estimated project budget, including the match to be provided by 
AGENCY.
#
Deliverable Description
MTC
Share
AGENCY
Share
Total
Cost
1A
Draft Scope of Work, Schedule, and Budget (5%)
$1,313 
$187 
$1,500 
1B
Final Scope of Work, Schedule, and Budget (5%)
$1,313 
$187 
$1,500 
2A
Draft Existing Conditions Report (30%)
$7,875 
$1,125 
$9,000 
2B
Final Existing Conditions Report (10%)
$2,625 
$375 
$3,000 
3A
Draft Recommendations Report (15%)
$3,938 
$562 
$4,500 
3B
Revised Recommendations Report (10%)
$2,625 
$375 
$3,000 
4
Preliminary Implementation and Fine Tuning (15%)
$3,938 
$562 
$4,500 
4A
Draft Project Report with Benefit-Cost Analysis (5%)
$1,313 
$187 
$1,500 
4B
Final Project Report with Benefit-Cost Analysis (5%)
$1,313 
$187 
$1,500 
Total Consultant Services
$26,253 
$3,747 $30,000 
GPS Clocks
$4,000 
$4,000 
$8,000 
Total
$30,253 
$7,747 $38,000 
93 of 509

--- page 94 ---
City of San Mateo - 19th Avenue/Fashion Island Boulevard Corridor Improvements Study
Project Study Area 
LEGEND
Caltrans Intersections
City of San Mateo Intersections
Project Study Area
Figure
1
Paciﬁc Blvd
Texas Way
Ginnever St
Bayshore Fwy
1
2
3
4
10
9
8
7
5
6
Bermuda Dr
S Delaware St
S Grant St
Concar Dr
19th ave
Norfolk St
Marines Island Blvd
S El Camino Real
J. Arthur Younger Fwy
Fiesta Dr
Saratoga Dr
S Deleware St
Kehoe Ave
Fashion Island Blvd
Metro Center Blvd
E Hillsdale Blvd
Shell Blvd
Franklin Pkwy
Kehoe Ave
S Grant St
Norfolk St
101
82
92
92
Fiesta Gardens 
International School
19th Avenue-Fashion Island 
Boulevard is a reliever route
94 of 509

--- page 95 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5865
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
April 18, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Central Park Seasonal Ice Rink – Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a five-year zero cost / zero revenue license agreement with On Ice LLC to operate a seasonal ice rink in Central 
Park and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
For the past six years (absent 2020), On Ice LLC has operated a seasonal ice rink at Central Park. The arrangement has been  
zero cost / zero revenue to the City and generates 20,000-25,000 visits each season.  The ice rink served as the inspiration    
for the Parks and Recreation Department to create Winter Wonderland, a new special event in the park that last year drew 
nearly 2,000 participants.  The ice rink has also generated visitor revenue to the downtown business district, with families 
utilizing many of the restaurants and food establishments.  The ice rink has helped San Mateo stand out from other cities 
on the Peninsula and has brought a new energy to Central Park during the winter season, which generally lacked any 
organized activity. On Ice LLC has been a very collaborative partner with the City and a five-year agreement will provide 
certainty to both the City and the operator, enabling both parties to engage in the long-term planning essential to stage 
this event.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact to the City other than minor staff coordination. On Ice LLC assumes full financial responsibility 
for the operation and is billed for the electrical consumption associated with the rink operation, as well as any other minor 
electrical support that may be required. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This license agreement for a seasonal outdoor ice rink at Central Park is categorically exempt from CEQA, because it is 
minor temporary use of land having negligible or no permanent effects on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15304(e).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – License Agreement 
95 of 509

--- page 96 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Nicholas Tsiorvas, Business Manager
ntsiorvas@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7408
96 of 509

--- page 97 ---
1
LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR ICE RINK OPERATION IN CENTRAL PARK
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into on __________ (the “Effective Date”) by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a California chartered municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State 
of California ("City)," and On Ice LLC, a limited liability company ("Licensee") (individually, a “Party”, and, 
collectively, the “Parties”).
RECITALS:
WHEREAS, the City wishes to continue to license the construction and operation of a seasonal ice rink 
for entertainment and amusement of the public in Central Park; and
WHEREAS, Licensee wishes to operate the seasonal ice rink in Central Park.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of these recitals and the mutual covenants and promises contained 
herein, the receipt and adequacy of which is acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:
1.
LICENSE TO USE PREMISES. The City grants Licensee a license to operate a seasonal ice rink in 
Central Park on the infield of the Fitzgerald baseball field, shown on Exhibit A, attached hereto and 
incorporated by reference, with the specific location and dimensions to be determined by the City, 
by and through its Landscape Resources Manager.
2.
TERM OF LICENSE. Licensee shall have access to the Premises in order to set up, take down, and 
operate the seasonal ice rink for five rink seasons commencing October 25, 2022, and ending 
January 31, 2027.
3.
PERSONNEL. Licensee shall be entirely responsible for the operation of the ice rink and the 
employment of personnel for said purpose. All compensation of such personnel will be paid by 
Licensee. City may review Licensee's personnel on a periodic basis to determine that such 
personnel are operating in a safe, efficient and courteous manner. Any complaints to the City 
regarding reports of unprofessional behavior will be forwarded to the Licensee for investigation 
and necessary corrective action. 
4.
ANNUAL SCHEDULE AND HOURS OF OPERATION. Licensee shall operate the ice rink for a seasonal 
period, generally mid-November through mid-January with the final dates determined annually in 
coordination with the Parks and Landscape Manager and approved by the Parks and Recreation 
Director. The final dates shall be determined no later than August 1st of each year. Licensee may 
access the Premises for set up and take down starting no earlier than October 25th and ending no 
later than January 31st annually.  Licensee shall operate such hours daily as shall best serve the 
convenience of the public. Licensee may adjust the hours of operation within normal park hours to 
accommodate periods of higher use, such as special events, inclement weather, or problems with 
equipment.  Licensee shall keep posted hours during which the ice rink will operate. 
5.
OPERATION. 
5.1.
Operation of ice rink shall always be subject to the approval of the Parks and Recreation Director or 
his or her designee. 
5.2.
Licensee acknowledges that City's primary purpose in entering into this license is to provide for the 
convenience and accommodation of the public. 
5.3.
Licensee agrees to make reasonable efforts to accommodate the needs of persons using and 
97 of 509

--- page 98 ---
2
visiting the Premises. Licensee shall use reasonable diligence to conduct said business so that it 
shall not become a nuisance or interfere unreasonably with the rights of other persons. 
5.4.
Licensee will not seek any reimbursement or other payment from the City for incurring 
maintenance and/or repair costs and expenses related to the ice rink. 
6.
UTILITIES: Licensee will be responsible for all utility charges, except for water. At the end of each 
season, the City will, in good faith, calculate the energy consumption on a pro rata basis and 
invoice Licensee for consumption and any associated work performed to connect machinery. 
Payment is due no later than June 30 of each year following the end of ice rink season. Licensee 
shall not operate in successive years unless prior year invoices have been paid in full. 
7.
PARKING AND ACCESS: Vehicle access into Central Park shall be through the Fifth (5th) Avenue gate 
and shall be limited to vehicles necessary for set up and dismantling. No vehicle may drive past the 
field entrance into other areas of Central Park. Licensee will be allowed the use of one (1) parking 
spot inside Central Park for employee parking. Delivery or work vehicles shall not be kept in Central 
Park for an extended period of time as determined by the Director or his or her designee. Licensee 
shall ensure that emergency vehicles, pedestrians and other authorized vehicles are provided a safe 
path of travel into Central Park. 
8.
AMPLIFIED MUSIC: Amplified music is allowed during the hours of ice rink operation and may not 
exceed the noise levels set forth in the City’s Noise Ordinance codified at Chapter 7.30 of the 
Municipal Code. 
9.
LOSS OF DAMAGE TO PROPERTY OR EQUIPMENT. City shall not be responsible for the loss of or 
damage to, property and/or equipment used in the operation of the ice rink, by reason of fire, theft, 
vandalism or otherwise. Licensee will defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City and its officers, 
agents, employees and volunteers from and against all claims, damages, losses and expenses, 
arising out of loss of or damage to, property and/or equipment used in the operation of the ice rink 
for any reason whatsoever.
10.
INSTALLATION, REMOVAL AND CLEAN UP: Upon completion of each ice rink season, the ice rink 
and associated structures shall be promptly dismantled by no later than 31st January of the ongoing 
season and the Premises shall be restored to their original state and left in a clean and presentable 
condition as determined by the Director of Parks and Recreation or his or her designee. 
11.
SAFETY AND EMERGENCIES. The City shall have the right, but not the obligation, to enter the 
Premises occupied by the Licensee for the purposes of safety, emergency, health, maintenance, or 
any other lawful purpose. The City shall not interfere in the Licensee’s activities generally but 
retains the rights to temporarily restrict or halt the Licensee’s activities if necessary and solely in the 
event of an emergency. 
12.
OTHER PERMITS AND LICENSES: Licensee shall obtain all permits and licenses required by the laws 
of any federal, state, local or other governmental agency that may be required in order for the 
Licensee to operate an ice rink in accordance with this License.
13.
APPLICABLE LAWS. Licensee shall not use or permit the Premises, or any part thereof, to be used in 
whole or in part for any purpose other than as hereinabove set forth. Licensee shall at all times 
obey and comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, including any orders and guidelines 
issued by the San Mateo County Health Department and the City related to COVID-19 (collectively 
referred to as “Applicable Laws”), and further agrees to indemnify and save harmless the City and 
its officers, agents, employees and volunteers from any penalties or charges imposed on the City for 
any violation by Licensee or others under its control or invitees, of any and all Applicable Laws.
98 of 509

--- page 99 ---
3
14.
TAXES: Licensee recognizes and understands that, in the event that the County of San Mateo 
interprets this Agreement to create any real property possessory interests subject to the County’s 
possessory interest tax, Licensee is responsible for payment of those taxes.
15.
DAMAGE TO PREMISES: Any damage to Premises or to adjacent areas caused by Licensee or others 
under its control or invitees shall be immediately reported to the Parks and Landscape Manager or 
his/her designee.  Unless otherwise agreed to, City shall make the repair at Licensee’s expense.
16.
HOLD HARMLESS AND INDEMNITY PROVISION. Licensee agrees to hold harmless and indemnify 
City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and volunteers from and against any and all 
claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of or related to the Licensee’s activities 
pursuant to this License, except for those claims arising out of City's sole negligence or willful 
misconduct. Licensee agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
volunteers, against any such claims.
17.
INSURANCE. Licensee shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified 
in Exhibit A to this Agreement.
18.
DESTRUCTION OF PREMISES: In the event that during the term of this License, the Premises are 
damaged or destroyed by fire or other calamity that prevents the occupancy of the whole or 
substantial portion of the Premises, this License may be terminated at the option of either the City 
or the Licensee, provided that the Premises cannot be restored to a reasonable occupancy level 
within a reasonable time after such destruction or damage. 
19.
USE AND DISPOSAL OF TOXIC OR HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES. Licensee shall only use, store, and 
dispose of toxic or hazardous substances on the Premises in conformance with governing federal 
and state laws and regulations. A copy of all notifications of the presence of such substance on the 
Premises shall be provided to the City before such substances are used or stored on or brought to 
the Premises, and the City shall have the right to order that any such substance be removed from 
the Premises. In addition, Licensee shall not bring any such substance on City property unless it is to 
be used on the Premises.
20.
SUCCESSORS. The terms and conditions of this License shall, subject to the restrictions on 
subleasing and assignment contained in this License, apply to and bind the successors, heirs, and 
assigns to the Licensee.
21.
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT AND ACCESS. Licensee warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and 
shall comply with applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity. Neither Licensee 
nor any of its officers, agents, employees, or contractors shall discriminate in the employment of 
any person because of race, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, 
marital status, sex, sexual orientation, or age, unless based upon a bona fide occupational 
qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. Neither Licensee nor any 
of its officers, agents, employees, or contractors shall discriminate in the use of the Premises by any 
person because of race, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, 
marital status, sex, sexual orientation, or age, and at all times, Licensee shall ensure that the 
Premises conform to the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Federal 
regulations promulgated pursuant to the ADA.
22.
TERMINATION. This License may be terminated on 180 days' written notice by either party to the 
other. In addition, City may terminate this License immediately upon the happening of any of the 
following:
A)
Filing a petition, voluntarily or involuntarily, for the adjudication of Licensee as a bankrupt;
99 of 509

--- page 100 ---
4
B)
Licensee’s breach of any term or condition of this License;
C)
The occurrence of any act by Licensee which operates to deprive Licensee permanently of the 
ability to perform Licensee's obligation; and
D)
Licensee’s abandonment or discontinuance of operations at the Premises.
23.
LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. Under no circumstances shall one party to this agreement be liable to the 
other party for any special, consequential, indirect or incidental damages, including lost profits, 
arising out of or in connection with this agreement or any activities performed in connection with this 
agreement, regardless of whether a claim made by that party is based on contract or tort.
24.
ATTORNEY FEES. Attorney fees in an amount not exceeding $5,000 shall be recoverable as costs by 
the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this License. The above-
mentioned $5,000 limit is the maximum attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, both or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals or 
actions. It is the intent that neither party to this contract shall have to pay the other more than 
$5,000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions, to enforce the provisions of this License. 
25.
ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLEASING. Licensee shall not assign this license, or any portion thereof, nor 
sublet or sub-contract the operation without the prior written consent of the City.
26.
NOTICES. Except as otherwise expressly provided by law, any and all notices or other communications 
required or permitted by this Agreement shall be sent to the parties at the following addresses: 
To CITY:
Business Manager, Parks and Recreation
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94403
 
To Licensee:
On Ice LLC
Pete Mott, Managing Member 
42 El Nido Drive
Napa, CA 94559
27.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
27.1
Nothing herein, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any third person, 
any legal or equitable right, or remedy, nor may any provision hereof be enforced by any 
third party.
27.2
The formation, interpretation and performance of this Agreement shall be governed by 
and interpreted in accordance with California law.  Any action to enforce or interpret this 
Agreement shall be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in County of San Mateo, 
California.
27.3
This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding and agreement of the Parties 
relating to the License and the rights and obligations of the Parties arising under this 
Agreement. The Exhibits to this Agreement are incorporated by reference and made a 
part of this Agreement.  This Agreement supersedes any prior written or oral 
communication between the Parties relating to the License.
100 of 509

--- page 101 ---
5
27.4
The waiver of any breach of a term or condition of this License shall not constitute a 
waiver of any subsequent breach.
27.5
Licensee is responsible for preparing and implementing an emergency and evacuation 
plan for multiple contingencies such as fire, earthquake, accident, etc. It is recommended 
that Licensee maintain an emergency supply kit consisting of a first aid, water, flashlight, 
and other emergency supplies.
27.6
During the term of this Agreement and for an additional period of 2 years thereafter, 
LICENSEE shall maintain accurate records pertaining to the operation of the ice rink.
27.7
It is expressly agreed that the Parties shall be independent contractors and that the 
relationship between the Parties shall not constitute a partnership, joint venture or 
agency. 
27.8
If any provision of this Agreement, or any portion thereof, is found by any court of 
competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable or invalid for any reason, such provision shall 
be severable and shall not, in any way, impair the enforceability of any other provision of 
this License Agreement.
27.9
This Agreement may be amended, in writing, and signed by the Parties.
27.10
This Agreement may be executed in one of more counterparts, which shall together 
constitute one and the same Agreement. 
SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS:
101 of 509

--- page 102 ---
6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and On Ice LLC, a California limited liability corporation  
have executed this Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
On Ice LLC
Sheila Canzian
Director of Parks and Recreation
On Ice LLC
Pete Mott
Managing Member 
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Gabrielle Whelan
Assistant City Attorney
102 of 509

--- page 103 ---
EXHIBIT A

103 of 509


--- page 104 ---
8
EXHIBIT B
Insurance Requirements
Licensee shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract insurance against claims for injuries to 
persons or damages to property which may arise from or in connection with the Licensee’s operation and use of 
the premises. The cost of such insurance shall be borne by the Licensee. 
MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1.
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office Form CG 00 01 covering CGL on an 
“occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, bodily injury and 
personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $2M each occurrence). If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 
04) or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.   
2.
Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limits of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease. 
(for Clubs with employees). 
3.
Property insurance against all risks of loss to any tenant improvements or betterments, at full 
replacement cost with no coinsurance penalty provision.   
4.
Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor has no 
owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than $1,000,000 per accident 
for bodily injury and property damage.
If the Licensee maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City 
requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or higher limits maintained.  Any available insurance 
proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be available to the City.  
Other Insurance Provisions: 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional insureds on the CGL 
policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the Licensee 
including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations. General liability 
coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the Licensee’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO 
Form CG 20 10.) 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Licensee’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance coverage at 
least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers. Any 
104 of 509

--- page 105 ---
9
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess 
of the Licensee’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except with notice to the 
City. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Licensee hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Licensee may 
acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Licensee agrees to obtain 
any endorsement that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies 
regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current A.M. Best’s 
rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City.  
Self-Insured Retentions 
Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. At the option of the City, either: the 
Licensee shall obtain coverage to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions as respects the City, its 
officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or the Licensee shall provide a financial guarantee satisfactory to 
the City guaranteeing payment of losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. 
The policy language shall provide, or be endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be satisfied by 
either the named insured or City. 
Special Risks or Circumstances 
City reserves the right to modify these requirements at any time, including limits, based on the nature of the 
risk, prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other special circumstances.   
Verification of Coverage
Licensee shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of the 
applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and endorsements are to 
be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure to obtain the required 
documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Licensee’s obligation to provide them.  The City 
reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
105 of 509

--- page 106 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number: 12
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5991
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Library Department
MEETING DATE:
April 18, 2022 
SUBJECT:
San Mateo Public Library Foundation Operating Lease – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an amendment to the Property Lease and Operating Agreement with the San Mateo Public Library Foundation to 
extend the lease for an additional year commencing retroactively to April 1, 2022 through March 31, 2023, and authorize 
the City Librarian to execute the amendment.  
BACKGROUND:
The San Mateo Public Library Foundation (SMPLF) leases office space in the Main Library to accommodate Foundation 
employees who perform fund development duties in support of the Library Foundation’s mission. The Commercial 
Property Lease Agreement and Operating Agreement between the City of San Mateo and San Mateo Public Library 
Foundation was signed on December 14, 2007.  Subsequent lease extensions through March 31, 2022 have been approved 
by the City Council.  This Amendment represents a one-year extension of the lease agreement retroactive to April 1, 2022 
through March 31, 2023.
In fiscal year 2021-22, the Library Foundation awarded $200,000 for support of programs and collections. The successful 
2020 and 2021 Author Gala events raised funds to support and expand the Library's outreach program.
BUDGET IMPACT:
In consideration of the financial support the SMPLF fulfills on behalf of the San Mateo Public Library, the rental amount of 
the lease will continue to be set at the nominal rate of $12 per annum. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This lease is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Lease Amendment 
106 of 509

--- page 107 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Marcia Mendonca, Senior Management Analyst
mmendonca@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7805
James Moore, City Librarian
jmoore@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7810
107 of 509

--- page 108 ---
AMENDMENT OF THE COMMERCIAL PROPERTY LEASE
AGREEMENT AND OPERATING AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND
THE SAN MATEO PUBLIC LIBRARY FOUNDATION
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of 
California, and the San Mateo Public Library Foundation, a California non-profit corporation 
(“Foundation”), entered into a Commercial Property Lease Agreement and Operating Agreement 
for space at the San Mateo Main Library (“Lease”) on December 14, 2007;
WHEREAS, the lease was previously extended from December 14, 2008 through March 
31, 2022; and
WHEREAS, the City and Foundation wish to amend the Lease to extend its term for one 
year; 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
Paragraph 1 of the Lease is amended to read:
“The term of this Lease shall be from April 1, 2022 through March 31, 2023, unless terminated 
pursuant to Paragraph 20.”
2.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and 
effect.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
SAN MATEO PUBLIC LIBRARY 
FOUNDATION
_____________________________
______________________________
_____________________________
______________________________
(print name)
(print name)
Date: _____________________
Date: ____________________
Approved as to form:
______________________________
Assistant City Attorney
108 of 509

--- page 109 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5968
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
April 18, 2022 
SUBJECT:
San Mateo City Employees' Association Memorandum of Understanding – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the San Mateo City Employees' Association for 
salary increases and a term through June 22, 2024. 
BACKGROUND:
The San Mateo City Employees' Association (SMCEA) represents approximately 125 employees throughout the City. 
Prior to the pandemic, the City’s General Fund Long-Term Financial Plan assumed annual employee salary increases of two 
percent (2%). Due to the immediate and severe impact to transient occupancy tax and sales tax revenues caused by the 
COVID-19 pandemic, the City chose to tap into the Rainy-Day Reserve to prevent layoffs and conduct concessions 
bargaining. SMCEA was the second bargaining unit to agree to concessions that were equivalent to zero percent (0%) 
salary increase in fiscal year 2022 to support the Fiscal Sustainability Plan. 
This agreement was reached on January 11, 2021 and adopted by City Council on February 1, 2021. The Memorandum of 
Understanding included a contract extension option that included the equivalent of zero percent (0%) salary increase in 
fiscal year 2023 in continued support of the City’s Fiscal Sustainability Plan. 
The Adopted 2021-22 Budget assumed zero percent (0%) salary increases for members of SMCEA. The mid-year budget 
update presented to the City Council on January 18, 2022, projected increased General Fund revenues of $10.7 million and 
decreased expenditures of $2.8 million, providing funds to support salary increases for those bargaining units that agreed 
to concessions. 
Negotiations with SMCEA concluded on March 23, 2022, and the membership subsequently ratified the proposed changes 
to their Memorandum of Understanding. Consistent with the direction provided by the City Council, negotiators for the 
City and the bargaining unit have reached agreement. 
These agreements include: 
Term: The contract will be extended for two additional years, expiring on June 22, 2024.
Salary: The bargaining unit will receive a 4.0% salary increase effective May 1, 2022, and a 4.0% increase effective June 25, 
2023. 
109 of 509

--- page 110 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Retiree Health Savings Account (RHSA): The City’s contribution will return to 1.0% on the pay period beginning June 26, 
2022. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Approval of the compensation resolution results in an increase of $76,935 total compensation for SMCEA members for the 
remainder of the fiscal year. It is projected that there are sufficient budget appropriations in the 2021-22 operating budget 
to absorb the additional cost. Updated salary and benefit amounts for these positions will be incorporated into the 2022-
23 budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
             Exhibit A – Tentative Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Teresa Abrahamsohn, Director of Human Resources
tabrahamsohn@cityofsanmateo.org
650.522.7276
110 of 509

--- page 111 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022) 
 
APPROVING AMENDMENTS TO THE MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE  
CITY OF SAN MATEO AND THE SAN MATEO CITY EMPLOYEES’ ASSOCIATION 
  
 
WHEREAS, the parties have met and conferred, and have tentatively agreed to amend the Memorandum of 
Understanding (MOU) for the San Mateo City Employees’ Association (Unit); and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the amendments are related to salary, term, and other compensation; and  
 
 
WHEREAS, the Unit has ratified the amendments to the MOU (Tentative Agreement); and 
 
 
WHEREAS, no appropriation of additional funds to the Fiscal Year 2021-22 Budget is necessary.  
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
 
1. The Tentative Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity 
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially 
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).) 
 
2. The amendments to the Memorandum of Understanding for the San Mateo City Employees’ 
Association, set forth in the Tentative Agreement attached as Exhibit A, is approved and summarized 
as follows: 
 
Term:  The contract will be extended for two additional years expiring on June 22, 2024. 
Salary:  The bargaining unit will receive a 4.0% salary increase effective May 1, 2022, and a 4.0% 
increase effective June 25, 2023.  
Retiree Health Savings Account (RHSA): The City’s contribution will return to 1.0% on the pay period 
beginning June 26, 2022. 
3. There is no budget impact in the current fiscal year for these recommended changes, as any 
increases can be absorbed within existing operating budgets. Updated salary and benefit amounts 
for these positions will be incorporated into the Fiscal Year 2022-23 budget.  
111 of 509

--- page 112 ---
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT
Between the San Mateo City Employees’ Association and the City of San Mateo
Salary Increase and Reinstatement of RHSA
12.1 Compensation Increases During the Term of this Agreement
12.1.1 Base Salary Adjustments
The Unit will be given a base salary adjustment as outlined below.  The Unit will receive 
the following across the board increases during the term of this agreement:
June 16, 2019
3.0%
January 10, 2021
2.0%
January 9, 2022
1.0%
June 26 May 1, 2022
4.0%
June 25, 2023
4.0%
19.2
Vacation Allowance
Employees shall accrue vacation with pay at the beginning of the following biweekly pay 
period as follows:
YRS OF SERVICE
DAYS 
PER YEAR
BIWEEKLY ACCRUAL
0 through 3rd year
11 days
3.39 biweekly
4th year through 9th year
16 days
4.93 biweekly
10th year
17 days
5.23 biweekly
11th year
18 days
5.54 biweekly
12th year
20 days
6.16 biweekly
13th through 23rd year
22.5 days
6.93 biweekly
24 years and beyond
25 days
7.69 biweekly
The above allowances shall be pro-rated for employees beginning employment or leaving 
employment with the City during a biweekly pay period.
24.11 Retirement Health Savings Account
All employees in the Unit will continue to be enrolled in the RHS Account (RHSA) in 
accordance with the Plan design. The administration costs of maintaining this RHSA will 
be borne by the City. 
For calendar year 2019, separation pay contributions to each employee’s RHSA shall be 
as specified in the side letter of agreement attached to this document and identified as 
Exhibit “D”. 
The Unit may elect to change the above conversion of separation pay arrangement for 
each successive calendar year of this Agreement.  The Unit must notify the City’s Human 

	

Exhibit A
112 of 509

--- page 113 ---
Resources Department in writing no later than November 30th of the change(s) to be 
made for the following calendar year.  In the event notification is not received by the 
deadline, the separation pay arrangement in effect at the time will continue for the 
following calendar year.
During the term of this MOU, employees in this bargaining unit may elect to contribute a 
set amount of salary to the RHSA. The City shall be notified of any such election sixty 
(60) days prior to the effective date. 
Beginning June 16, 2019, the City will contribute one percent (1.0%) of base salary per 
month for each employee into the RHSA plan. Effective July 11, 2021, the City’s 
contribution shall be 0.5%. The City’s contribution shall return to 1.0% on June 26, 2022.
unless extended by the Unit in accordance with Article 43.0 MOU Extension Option.
Beginning June 16, 2019, the City shall contribute two percent (2.0%) of base salary per 
pay period to the Retirement Health Savings accounts of those employees aged 45 or over 
with 15 or more years of City service. Employees who become eligible for this contribution 
during the term of the agreement shall begin receiving contributions in the first full pay 
period following establishing eligibility. The continuation of this provision beyond the 
term of the contract would need to be made by mutual agreement between the parties.
42.0
Termination of Agreement
This Agreement shall terminate as of 11:59 p.m., June 2522, 20222024.
The existing and unmodified rules, regulations, resolutions or ordinances relating to wages, 
hours, and conditions of employment not covered in this Agreement for employees in this 
Unit shall remain unchanged for said period unless such changes are the result of meeting 
and conferring as required by law.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the City Council may increase the benefits 
for the General Unit or may increase the wages of specific classifications in the General 
Unit.
43.0
MOU Extension Option
The Unit has the sole discretion to extend the terms and conditions of this MOU with the 
following provisions:
12.1.1. Base Salary Adjustments
The Unit will receive the following across the board increase:
January 13, 2023
1%
24.11 Retirement Health Savings Account

	

113 of 509

--- page 114 ---
The City’s RHS contribution shall remain at 0.5% through the term of the 
extension (June 24, 2023). The City’s RHS contribution shall return to 
1.0% on June 25, 2023.
42.0
Termination of Agreement
The Agreement shall terminate as of 11:59 p.m., June 24, 2023.
The Unit must notify the City in writing on or before March 15, 2022 that they will be 
exercising their right to extend the MOU under this Article. 
Any term and condition of the May 18, 2019 – May 15, 2021 MOU not identified above shall 
remain in full force and effect through the term of this Agreement.
This Tentative Agreement needs to be fully executed no later than 5:00 pm March 30, 2022 and 
notice of Union ratification needs to be received by the City no later than 5:00 pm April 13,
2022, in order for the above provisions to occur.
Dated:
FOR THE SMCEA
FOR THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
John Noble
Stacey Cue 

	


114 of 509

--- page 115 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-6085
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
April 18, 2022 
SUBJECT:
General Fund Unassigned Fund Balance – Commitment Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to authorize the commitment of $5,500,000 of General Fund unassigned fund balance for negotiated 
increases to employee compensation and $4,500,000 for capital improvement projects.
BACKGROUND:
As presented during the City Council special meeting on April 18, 2022, General Fund total revenues are projected to end 
fiscal year (FY) 2021-22 even more favorably than previously projected during the mid-year budget update in January 
2022. Real property transfer tax (RPTT) revenues, which continue to exceed expectations, are projected to end the year at 
$16.0 million, which is $3.0 million more than previously estimated. Transient occupancy tax (TOT) revenues have 
recovered faster from the pandemic-driven recession than expected, and are projected to end FY 2021-22 at $3.0 million, 
which is a favorable variance of $2.0 million. TOT revenues have been buoyed by an average occupancy rate of nearly 60% 
from July 2021 through February 2022. 
Anchored by the above updated estimates, General Fund total revenues are projected to end FY 2021-22 at $160.2 million, 
while total expenditures are projected to be $146.6 million. If these current estimates come to fruition, the General Fund 
will realize a $13.6 million increase in fund balance. Within the context of the favorable results above, the proposed 
resolution commits $10.0 million of the General Fund unassigned fund balance, $5.5 million of which is for the additional 
cost of negotiated increases in employee compensation and the remaining $4.5 million is to provide support for the City's 
capital improvement plan for 2022-27, including the high-voltage streetlight conversion ($1.6 million), structural 
improvements to the Marina Library ($1.8 million), and pedestrian mall construction ($0.6 million). 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Pursuant to the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) Statement Number 54, there are five different types of 
fund balance classifications, from most constrictive to least constrictive: nonspendable, restricted, committed, assigned, 
and unassigned. Adoption of the proposed resolution will reclassify $10.0 million of General Fund unassigned fund 
balance, the least constrictive category, to committed. In the future, if the Council wishes to uncommit the committed 
fund balance, it would do so via resolution.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This commitment of unassigned fund balance is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity 
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact 
on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
115 of 509

--- page 116 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
116 of 509

--- page 117 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. _____ (2022)
APPROVING THE COMMITMENT OF $5,500,000 OF GENERAL FUND UNASSIGNED FUND BALANCE FOR THE 
COST OF NEGOTIATED CHANGES TO EMPLOYEE SALARIES AND BENEFITS AND $4,500,000 OF GENERAL FUND 
UNASSIGNED FUND BALANCE TO PROVIDE ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
WHEREAS, the City Council received a mid-year budget update for fiscal year (FY) 2021-22 where 
General Fund total revenues are projected to be $160.2 million, while total expenditures are projected to be 
$146.6 million, largely due to additional real property transfer tax revenues and better recovery of the transient 
occupancy tax; and
WHEREAS, the Council may commit unrestricted fund balance for a specific purpose by resolution; and
 
WHEREAS, the City negotiated concessions with its bargaining units as a part of the City’s Fiscal 
Sustainability Plan to provide financial relief to the General Fund in response to the immediate and severe 
financial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; and 
WHEREAS, based on the improved financial condition of the City as reported during the fiscal year 2021-
22 mid-year budget update on January 18, 2022, the City completed negotiations with the bargaining units that 
provided concessions to provide them with compensation increases that will cost the General Fund an additional 
$5,500,000 between FY 2022-23 and 2023-24 in recognition of partnering with the City to address the 
pandemic-driven recession; and
WHEREAS, there is an escalated need for additional funding support for capital improvement projects in 
FY 2022-23 and 2023-24, including $1,625,000 for the high voltage street light conversion project, $1,725,000 
for structural improvements to the Marina Library, and $600,000 for Pedestrian Mall Construction as a part of 
Downtown Phase I improvements, which will come from $4,500,000 in additional support from the General 
Fund. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, RESOLVES that:
1. This action is not a project subject to CEQA because it is a government fiscal activity which does not 
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant impact 
on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
2. A General Fund unassigned fund balance of $5,500,000 is committed for negotiated employee 
compensation increases.
3. A General Fund unassigned fund balance of $4,500,000 is committed for additional funding support 
for capital improvement projects. 
117 of 509

--- page 118 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  15
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-6063
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
April 18, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Mack E. Mickelson Arthritis and Rehabilitation Center Therapy Pool – Resolution in Support  
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to call upon Sutter Health to reopen the Mack E. Mickelson Arthritis and Rehabilitation Center Therapy 
Pool located at the Mills Health Center in San Mateo for community use. 
BACKGROUND:
For 25 years, the Mack E. Mickelson Therapy Pool at the Mills Health Center has been the only fully accessible pool in San 
Mateo County that provides warm water therapy programs and services to children and adults with a wide range of 
mobility, disability and rehabilitation needs.  Sutter Health understandably closed the facility in March 2020 as a result of 
the COVID-19 pandemic; however, in June 2021, Sutter Health announced that the pool would be permanently closed to 
community use.  The closure has left hundreds of vulnerable individuals without access to warm water therapy that they 
had come to rely on for many years.
At its April 4th meeting, the City Council requested that a Resolution calling upon Sutter Health to reopen the Mickelson 
Therapy Pool for community use be drafted for its consideration.    
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for taking this action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct 
or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution 
STAFF CONTACT
Sheila Canzian, Director, Park and Recreation
scanzian@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7404
118 of 509

--- page 119 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022)
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF REOPENING THE MACK E. MICKELSON ARTHRITIS AND REHABILITATION CENTER 
THERAPY POOL FOR COMMUNITY USE AT THE MILLS HEALTH CENTER IN SAN MATEO 
WHEREAS, the Mack E Mickelson Arthritis and Rehabilitation Center Therapy Pool is an Americans with 
Disabilities Act accessible warm water therapy pool operated by Sutter Health and located at the Mills Health 
Center in San Mateo, California ; and
WHEREAS, the Mickelson Therapy Pool was constructed over 25 years ago using charitable 
contributions from residents of San Mateo County to serve as the centerpiece of an arthritis and rehabilitation 
center by Mills Peninsula; and
WHEREAS, for the past 25 years the Mickelson Therapy Pool has been used by thousands of children 
and adults of San Mateo County who suffer from a broad range of health issues, including permanent 
disabilities, debilitating injuries, autoimmune disorders and as well as those requiring rehabilitation from 
surgeries, strokes and other mobility impairments, such as arthritis; and
WHEREAS, the Mickelson Therapy Pool is the only pool of its kind in San Mateo County, providing full 
access for the disabled and maintaining a water temperature that can adequately support the needs of those 
suffering from acute and chronic pain; and 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo has been designated an Age Friendly City by AARP and the World 
Health Organization and strives to provide the resources and services necessary to allow older adults to remain 
vibrant and independent in the community; and
WHEREAS, in spite of the critical need for the facility, Sutter Health announced in June 2021 that it was 
permanently closing the Mickelson Therapy Pool to independent use, removing a valuable healthcare facility for 
people needing this resource; and 
WHEREAS, the community has shared with Sutter Health its overwhelming support to re-open the 
Mickelson Therapy Pool and restore the services this facility provides to those suffering from a broad range of 
health issues.      
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES to 
call upon Sutter Health to promptly reopen the Mack E. Mickelson Arthritis and Rehabilitation Center Therapy 
Pool for those community members who have historically relied upon and benefited from the warm water 
therapy it provided so that they may continue to live healthy, vibrant and  independent lives.  
119 of 509

--- page 120 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  16
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 22-5866
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
April 18, 2022 
SUBJECT:
General Plan Update – Selection of the Preferred Land Use and Circulation Scenario 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a preferred land use and circulation scenario and direct staff to finalize the land use and circulation maps that will 
go into the draft General Plan Update.
BACKGROUND:
The City’s General Plan Update (GPU) kicked off in the fall of 2018 and began with a series of visioning workshops and 
community meetings. From April 2019 through January 2022, the General Plan team held a series of meetings and events 
to establish the General Plan study areas, create the range of land use and circulation alternatives, confirm the draft 
alternatives, and receive feedback on the preferred land use and circulation scenario with the community. This City Council 
meeting will be the final step in the land use and circulation alternatives selection process. More information about the 
outreach process, including meeting materials and recordings and public comment letters, is available at 
www.StriveSanMateo.org. 
Overview of Alternatives Process
The land use alternatives explore different possible growth scenarios for how to accommodate future housing, jobs, 
commercial and retail establishments, and parks and open space. The City is proactively planning to meet the 
requirements of State housing law, identify solutions to transportation and housing affordability issues, be prepared for 
the projected population and job growth in the region and locally, and other issues such as improving community health, 
equity, and access to services. This work is guided by the General Plan Vision and Values established at the outset of the 
project (Attachment 1). 
The process to create the land use and circulation alternatives and to ultimately select a preferred land use and circulation 
scenario has taken approximately two years and been shaped by community input at every significant step of the process. 
In general, each step of the alternatives process includes a similar series of meetings: first, community workshop(s) and 
outreach events, then General Plan Subcommittee (GPS) meeting(s), followed by Planning Commission meeting(s), and 
culminating in City Council direction. For additional information about the steps to create the alternatives and ultimately 
select a preferred land use and circulation scenario, please refer to the July 27, 2021 Planning Commission agenda report.
DISCUSSION:
Overview of the Land Use Alternatives
The land use alternatives explore a range of residential growth within the 10 Study Areas based on both response to 
community input and the need to accommodate the City’s Regional Housing Needs Allocation (RHNA) of 7,015 housing 
units for the next housing cycle (2023-2031). In addition, since the General Plan is planning for the next 20 years, the 
120 of 509

--- page 121 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
preferred land use scenario should account for residential growth beyond the current RHNA to cover future housing 
cycles.
The three land use alternatives explore growth of approximately 12,000, 16,000, and 21,000 new residential units. By 
comparison, San Mateo currently has just over 39,000 housing units. All land use alternatives keep job growth constant 
despite varying residential growth, with the assumption that the City would not implement policies to either significantly 
stimulate, nor significantly dampen, job growth. The Alternatives Evaluation Report includes an assessment of future 
jobs/housing balance given these assumptions. Table 1 provides a summary of the three land use alternatives plus an 
estimate for the Planning Commission’s recommended land use alternative.  The land use alternatives are included as 
Attachments 2 and 3.
Table 1 – Summary of Draft Land Use Alternatives
Existing (2019)
Alternative A 
(Net New)
Alternative B 
(Net New)
Alternative C 
(Net New)
Planning Commission 
Recommendation (Net New)
Homes
39,200
+11,810
+16,070
+21,080
+22,160
Population
104,500
+29,500
+40,260
+53,500
+56,304
Jobs
52,800
+15,430
+15,430
+14,990
+15,183
Source: PlaceWorks, 2022
Measure Y and the Land Use Alternatives
Measure Y is a ballot measure that was passed by voters in November 2020. It retained existing height and density limits 
that were adopted pursuant to  Measure P on new development and has a sunset date of 2030. Overall, the Measure Y 
height limit is set at up to 55 feet, with a density limit that allows up to 50 dwelling units per acre.  The height limit allows 
for exceptions in certain locations and under certain circumstances, and State Density Bonus law allows projects to exceed 
both limits when certain percentages of affordable units are provided.  As noted above, some of the land use designations 
in Alternatives B and C include building heights and densities that exceed the limits set by Measure Y.  Any GPU 
components that are inconsistent with Measure Y will require voter approval before they could take effect.     
Overview of the Circulation Alternatives
The circulation alternatives explore different ways people could travel throughout San Mateo, improving bicycle, 
pedestrian, vehicular and transit access to connect residents to regional transportation systems. All the alternatives 
assume pedestrian and bicycle improvements consistent with adopted City planning documents such as the Bicycle Master 
Plan and Pedestrian Master Plan. The circulation alternatives (Attachment 4) are generally described as follows:

Alternative A: A Walkable City. This alternative aims to create walkable communities throughout San Mateo by 
prioritizing pedestrian corridors, pedestrian improvements to challenging intersections, and implementing traffic 
calming and safety improvements near highway on-ramps, and would go beyond the pedestrian improvements 
contained in the Pedestrian Master Plan. 

Alternative B: Prioritizing Regional Connections. This alternative aims to increase and improve transit access to 
and from major connections in San Mateo by adding transit connections east/west from Study Areas 3, 6, and 10 
to the Hillsdale Caltrain station, prioritizing dedicated High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) and bus lanes, and adding 
Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) improvements to El Camino Real. 

Alternative C: Supporting, Walking, Regional Connections, and Emerging Mobility Solutions. This alternative 
combines the local and regional transportation improvements of Alternatives A and B, while using inventive urban 
design, inspired by Barcelona’s “superblocks”, to create a pedestrian focused, car-light space in Downtown. In 
addition, this alternative would explore future transportation technologies, like on-demand rideshare services or 
an autonomous vehicle shuttle. 
Alternatives Evaluation Report
The Alternatives Evaluation Report, which is included as Attachment 5, was prepared to help the community and 
decisionmakers understand the implications of three different approaches to land use and transportation planning for the 
121 of 509

--- page 122 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
next 20 years. The report considered a range of topics including Urban Form, Traffic and Multimodal Network, Community 
Services, Utilities, Environmental Sustainability, Equity and Public Health, Fiscal Sustainability, Market Feasibility and 
Community Benefits.
The Summary of Key Findings identified that potential impacts to water supply, the wastewater system, stormwater 
system, sea level rise, flooding, wildfire hazards, and the ability to secure community benefits would be similar or the same 
under any of the alternatives. All three land use alternatives are estimated to generate more General Fund revenues than 
expenditures under the City’s current cost structure and service levels. The major differences amongst the land use and 
circulation alternatives include:

Circulation Alternative B paired with Land Use Alternative C scored the highest in terms of transit benefit.

Circulation Alternative C paired with Land Use Alternative C had the highest multi-modal benefit. 

Land Use Alternative A would likely not be able to meet future RHNA cycles, would have the highest per capita 
VMT,  would propose the fewest changes to the Downtown historic district, and would have the most positive 
annual net fiscal impact for the City.

Land Use Alternative B would likely be able to fulfill future RHNA cycles, but with a smaller buffer than Alternative 
C would result in the most changes to the Downtown historic district and would have the best feasibility in the 
current market, which favors medium densities (40-99 units/acre).

Land Use Alternative C would likely be able to fulfill future RHNA cycles within the horizon of this General Plan; 
would have the lowest per capita VMT; would produce the most affordable housing, but could also expose the 
most new residents to diesel particulate matter; would have the lowest net annual fiscal surplus; and would have 
lower feasibility in the current market due to the higher cost of construction for taller buildings.
Environmental Justice
Environmental justice is defined in California law as the fair treatment of people of all races, cultures, and incomes with 
respect to the development, adoption, implementation, and enforcement of environmental laws, regulations, and policies. 
Environmental justice issues often emerge from structural or geographic inequities that negatively affect low-income areas 
that are disproportionately affected by environmental pollution and other hazards that can lead to negative health effects, 
exposure, or environmental degradation. Neighborhoods that are disporportionately impacted by pollution and 
contamination often face an ongoing lack of representation and participation in the city’s decision-making process, despite 
direct impacts on their neighborhood.  Throughout California, inequities exist in neighborhoods with higher percentages of 
racial or ethnic minority households and lower-income households when those residents bear a disproportionate burden 
of the region’s environmental hazards and corollary health conditions.
In response to these conditions, in 2017, California’s legislature adopted Senate Bill (SB) 1000, which added a new 
requirement for local jurisdictions that include “disadvantaged communities” to address environmental justice as a 
required topic in the General Plan. In addition, the State developed and is maintaining various tools to help identify 
“disadvantaged communities” as defined under SB 1000. One prominent tool is Cal EnviroScreen, which was developed by 
the California Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment on behalf of the California Environmental Protection 
Agency to help identify communities disproportionately burdened by multiple sources of pollution and with population 
characteristics that make them more sensitive to pollution. Updates to the data and methodology used in CalEnviroScreen 
in summer 2021, finalized in fall 2021, identified new “disadvantaged neighborhoods” in San Mateo that were not 
identified earlier in the General Plan Update process, specifically the Census tract that includes the North Central 
neighborhood. 
Given that there is an SB 1000 disadvantaged neighborhood in the City, by law, the San Mateo General Plan Update will be 
required to identify objectives and policies: 

To reduce the unique or compounded health risks in disadvantaged communities, including reducing pollution 
exposure, improving air quality, and by promoting public facilities, food access, safe and sanitary homes, and 
physical activity.
122 of 509

--- page 123 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

To promote civic engagement in the public decision-making process.

That prioritize improvements and programs that address the needs of disadvantaged communities.
In summer 2022, the City will implement an outreach program targeted to the San Mateo neighborhoods identified as 
disadvantaged communities. The primary outreach goal will be to hear the impacted communities’ ideas about how to 
prioritize and improve the most pressing issues facing these residents, in order to develop effective environmental justice 
policies and actions for the updated General Plan.
Jobs-Housing Balance
Throughout the General Plan Update, the San Mateo community has been interested in how the land use changes and 
anticipated future growth would affect the city’s jobs-housing balance. Although this topic is often described as “jobs-
housing” balance, comparing the number of jobs to the number of residents is a more direct comparison of individuals, 
rather than comparing people to homes. The jobs-employed residents ratio is calculated by dividing the number of jobs in 
the community by the number of employed residents in the same area. A high number of jobs relative to residents 
typically indicates that workers are commuting into the community. A low number of jobs and high number of residents 
typically indicates that workers are commuting out of the community for work. Theoretically, an ideal jobs-to-employed 
residents ratio for a city like San Mateo would be 1.0. However, the ratio of jobs to employed residents indicates a 
numerical match, not a qualitative match in job type vs. resident skills and abilities. Even with an ideal jobs-to-employed 
residents ratio of 1.0, due to personal choices about where to live and work, many residents will continue to commute 
outside of San Mateo while workers that do not reside in San Mateo will continue to commute in. The Alternatives 
Evaluation compared existing conditions as of the baseline year of 2018 plus net new employees and new population 
projected through 2040 under each alternative.  

Alternative A would result in more jobs than employed residents, with a ratio of 1.18. 

Alternative B result in slightly more jobs than employed residents, with a ratio of 1.05. 

Alternative C would result in slightly fewer jobs than employed residents, with a ratio of 0.95.   
Water Supply
This section presents additional detail about the water supply analysis of the land use alternatives evaluation. The City’s 
water purveyor is California Water Service (Cal Water), a privately owned water utility company. In all of the alternatives, 
based on the projections in Cal Water’s Urban Water Management Plan (UWMP), Cal Water would not have sufficient 
supply to meet the projected demand. This is primarily because all alternatives contemplate population increases that 
exceed the 2040 population projection used for Cal Water’s UWMP.  Cal Water has indicated that they calibrate water 
supply closely to demand so as not to put ratepayers in the position of paying for supplies years or decades before they 
are actually needed. The next update of the UWMP, which will happen in 2025, will be created with reference to the 
projected development allowed under San Mateo’s updated General Plan 2040. The preferred scenario and updated 
General Plan will be an important input for Cal Water into ongoing future supply planning efforts along with other future 
conservation measures that could result in decreased water demand. 
Environmental Sustainability
The Alternatives Evaluation Report also analyzed how hazards associated with climate change could affect the land use 
alternatives. In San Mateo, there are three primary climate-related hazards that could affect the physical environment: sea 
level rise (and associated saltwater intrusion) in the northern and eastern portions of the city, flooding along the eastern 
shoreline and along Marina Lagoon, and wildfire in the western and southern portions of the city. The eastern side of the 
city, including portions of Study Areas 2, 3, 7, 8, 9, and 10, could be subject to sea level rise impacts depending on the rate 
of sea level rise that occurs over this century. In addition, portions of these same study areas are within the FEMA 100-
year flood zone and could be susceptible to flooding risks. Since sea level rise and flooding impacts would be localized to 
the first floor of a structure, all alternatives would be similarly affected by these impacts. 
To proactively address the potential impacts of sea level rise, the City of San Mateo is  working with regional, state, and 
federal partners. For example, the City participated in San Mateo County’s 2018 Sea Level Rise Vulnerability Assessment 
123 of 509

--- page 124 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Report; collaborated with the City/County Association of Government’s process to form the new Flood and Sea Level Rise 
Resiliency Agency/OneShoreline; created a new assessment district to fund necessary flood protection improvements; is in 
the process of completing the North Shoreview Levee and Pump Station Improvement project to provide flood protection 
to North Shoreview residents; and designed the upgrade and expansion of the wastewater treatment plant to provide 
protection from the 100-year base flood and 3.4 feet of sea level rise. The City is also engaged through the BayCAN 
collaborative, a Bay Area-wide collaborative network of local governments and organizations focused on responding 
effectively and equitably to the impacts of climate change.
Areas in San Mateo that are at risk of wildfire are located west of Alameda De Las Pulgas. Study Area 6 is located within 
the Wildland Urban Interface, a zone that includes dense housing and vegetation that can burn in a wildfire. However, 
there are no study areas that are within a Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone as currently mapped by CAL Fire. Land Use 
Alternative C would add the most housing units and Land Use Alternative A would result in the fewest new housing units in 
Study Area 6. 
Alternatives Process Community Input
Beginning in March 2021, and ongoing through the April 2022 City Council meeting, the City’s community engagement 
process is providing a range of forums, events and surveys, both in-person and virtual.  These outreach efforts, for both 
the General Plan and Housing Element, have included the hosting of 15 virtual workshops and three online surveys. In 
addition, the General Plan team has focused targeted outreach to the City’s harder-to-reach demographics, including a 
Spanish language workshop hosted on February 24, 2022, and conducting three pop-ups in the North Central and 
Shoreview neighborhoods. A summary of the community engagement and public input on the land use and circulation 
alternatives and preferred scenarios is included in Attachment 6. Workshop materials and meeting recordings can be 
found at: www.strivesanmateo.org/workshops-pop-up-events/. 
Following the publication of the Alternatives Evaluation Report at the beginning of the year, an online survey to collect 
resident and stakeholder input on the preferred scenario was launched on Friday, January 21, 2022 and closed on March 7, 
2022. In total, the City collected 404 individual responses. The online survey settings limited participants to one response 
per user. The Communuty Engagement Summary in Attachment 6 includes a summary report of responses received from 
the online survey. In addition, over 65 public comment letters from residents and property owners were submitted to the 
General Plan Subcommitte and Planning Commission. Those comment letters, along with all written public comments 
submitted during the GPU process, can be found at: www.strivesanmateo.org/documents/publiccomments/. 
As part of the public input that staff has received, there have been a number of individual land use designation requests 
from property owners for specific parcels around the City.  A summary of these requests, along with their current land use 
designation, is included as Attachment 7.  Many of these requests were considered by the General Plan Subcommittee and 
the Planning Commission and generally the requests were received favorably (see discussions below).
2022 Community Opinion Survey
The City of San Mateo also conducted a statistically reliable survey about a range of topics including land use and housing 
in the beginning of 2022. The survey sample size included 775 San Mateo adult residents and was administered
in English and Spanish between January 21 and February 2, 2022. The complete 2022 Community Opinion Survey Report is 
included in Attachment 8.  A summary of the main factual findings from the land use and housing questions included:

Approximately two-thirds of residents indicated that there is currently too little housing that is affordable for 
middle-income (67%) and low-income families (64%) in the City of San Mateo.

When asked to prioritize among a list of factors the City could consider as it plans for additional housing units as 
required by State law, ensuring adequate water supplies (98% at least somewhat important) was viewed as the 
most important factor, followed by preserving open space and creating new park lands (97%), minimizing vehicle 
trips and traffic congestion (95%), creating pedestrian-friendly areas that encourage people to walk rather than 
drive (94%), and minimizing pollution and greenhouse gas emissions (93%).
124 of 509

--- page 125 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

When compared to the other items tested, respondents indicated that keeping building heights low (68%) and 
minimizing the number of new units added to single-family neighborhoods (68%) were the least important when 
planning for future housing in the City.

When presented with the opportunity to reserve more land for parks, recreation areas, and community amenities 
and minimize change to existing neighborhoods, 63% of San Mateo residents indicated they would support 
concentrating new housing in higher-density buildings downtown and near transit up to 12 stories. A higher 
percentage (68%) indicated they would support buildings up to eight stories.
General Plan Subcommittee Meetings
The General Plan Subcommittee (GPS) held two public meetings on February 17, 2022 and March 3, 2022 to consider the 
results of the Alternatives Evaluation Report and the community input on the preferred circulation and land use scenario. 
Although the GPS was not asked to come to consensus, there was agreement on many topics.
Most GPS members preferred Circulation Alternative C as the most thorough response to San Mateo’s current and future 
transportation needs. Individual GPS members also supported Circulation Alternative A because focusing on pedestrian 
improvements is responsive to what residents prefer and is more likely to be achieved with future financing than the other 
two circulation alternatives. Those GPS members who expressed support for Circulation Alternative B cited the need for 
improved bus transit to meet the needs of service workers. Subcommittee members emphasized the importance of 
improving first and last mile connections to transit under any preferred circulation scenario. 
The GPS reviewed the draft land use alternatives by study area. Each Subcommittee member expressed their individual 
feedback about the preferred scenario in each study area. In most study areas, Subcommittee members preferred either 
Land Use Alternative B or C, or a combination of these two land use alternatives. The matrix below summarizes the 
preference for each alternative by study area.
 
Table 2 – GPS Member Preferences on the Land Use Alternatives
Study Area
Alt A
Alt B
Alt C
Other
1 – El Camino Real North
6
1 – B & A
1 – El Camino Real Central
3
1
3 – B & C
1 – El Camino Real South
1
5
1 – B & C
2 – Bel Mateo/Mollie Stone’s 
1
6
 
3 – Rail Corridor 
2
5
 
4 – Downtown 
4
2- B & C, 1 – A & C
5 – Peninsula Avenue 
1
3
3 – B & C
6 – Campus Drive 
1
2
4
 
7 – North Shoreview and Shoreview 
1
1 – C & A, 5 – mix
8 – Parkside Plaza 
3
3
1 - mix
9 – Hillsdale/Norfolk 
2
4
1 – C & B
10 – Bridgepointe 
n/a
n/a
n/a
 
The Subcommittee also stressed the importance of objective design standards to create beautiful spaces, allowing a mix of 
uses to provide for future flexibility, and considering air quality impacts to potential residential uses located along US 101 
or SR 92.
Planning Commission Meeting
On March 22, 2022, the Planning Commission held a public meeting to review the draft circulation and land use 
alternatives. The Planning Commission made a recommendation for the preferred circulation scenario and a 
recommendation for the preferred land use scenario by study area. In most cases, the recommendation was made 
unanimously (4-0 vote), except for Study Areas 3, 6, and 7 where the recommendation passed with a 3-1 vote. 
For the preferred circulation scenario, the Planning Commission recommended that the General Plan include Circulation 
125 of 509

--- page 126 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Alternative C and prioritize the implementation of the pedestrian improvements from that alternative, highlighting the 
need to prioritize pedestrian/bicycle crossings over US 101 and SR 92.  As part of this motion, the Planning Commission 
recommended the City create a Specific Plan for the North Central neighborhood in the context of SB 1000. 
For the preferred land use scenario, the Planning Commission primarily recommended a combination of Land Use 
Alternatives B and C by study area, except for Study Area 7, where they recommended Land Use Alternative A.  For the 
majority of their recommendations, the Planning Commission recommended targeted changes as noted in the table 
below. 
Table 3 – Planning Commission Recommendations on the Land Use Alternatives
Study Area
Alt A
Alt B
Alt C
Notes
1 – ECR North
X
Change the Commercial Neighborhood at East Poplar Ave to Mixed-Use Medium
Incorporate the Mixed-Use High at El Cerrito Ave/Tilton Ave from Land Use 
Alternative C
Change 7 De Sabla Rd site from Residential Medium to Residential High
1 – ECR Central
X
Change the Mixed-Use Medium west of El Camino Real to Mixed-Use High
Change 1700 El Camino Real site from Office High to Mixed-Use High
1 – ECR South
X
Change Residential Low along 37th Ave to Mixed-Use Low
2 – Bel Mateo/ 
Mollie Stone’s
X
Change Olympic Village site (42nd) from Residential Low to Residential Medium
Change sites south of 43rd Ave from Mixed-Use Medium to Mixed-Use Low
3 – Rail Corridor 
X
Designate Concar Passage and State Park Green as Mixed-Use Medium to reflect 
pending projects
Change the area west of the Hayward Park Caltrain station from Mixed-Use High 
to Mixed-Use Medium
Change the Safeway site from Mixed-Use Medium to Mixed-Use High
Change the Commercial Service along Palm Ave to Mixed-Use Medium
Reflect the requested designations from the Bohannon Group’s comment letter 
on the Hillsdale Mall sites
4 – Downtown 
X
Change the Residential Low on 3rd and 4th Ave east of Delaware St to Residential 
Medium
Change the Residential High along B St south of 5th Ave to Mixed-Use High
Support the preparation of an updated Downtown Specific Plan in the future 
5 – Peninsula 
Avenue 
X
Change the Residential Medium along Peninsula Ave east of Woodside Way to 
Mixed-Use Low
Change the Residential Medium along North San Mateo Dr between E Santa 
Inez Ave and Tilton Ave to Residential High
6 – Campus Drive 
X
Change 2600 Campus Dr site from Residential Low to Residential Medium
7 – North Shoreview 
and Shoreview 
X
Change the Commercial Service south of 3rd Ave to Mixed-Use Medium
Change the Mixed-Use Low south of 3rd Avenue to Mixed-Use High
8 – Parkside Plaza 
X
Change the PS Business Park sites from Residential Medium to Mixed-Use High 
to reflect the property owner request
Change 1900 S Norfolk St site from Mixed-Use Medium to Commercial Service
9 - Hillsdale/Norfolk
X
No modifications recommended
10 – Bridgepointe
X
Do not allow residential uses directly adjacent to SR-92
An updated land use alternative, by study area, that reflects the recommendation made by the Planning Commission has 
been prepared and is included as Attachment 9.
City Council Direction and Next Steps
Based on the results of the Alternatives Evaluation, the community input collected over the past year, the feedback from 
the General Plan Subcommittee and the recommendation from the Planning Commission, staff is seeking City Council’s 
direction on the preferred land use and circulation scenario that will go into the General Plan Update. For land use and 
circulation topics that are not directly related to the maps, such as allowed uses or circulation policies, Council can provide 
direction to staff and it will be addressed when the GPU goals, policies and actions are drafted as part of the next phase.  
126 of 509

--- page 127 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Staff is also seeking direction on the property owner requests contained in Attachment 7 and if they should be incorprated 
into the preferred land use scenario.  
Following the Council’s direction on the preferred land use and circulations scenario, the General Plan team will update 
and finalize the Draft Circulation Map and Draft Land Use Map.  To confirm that the draft maps reflect the Council’s 
direction, they will be brought back to Council for confirmation in July.  This meeting will be the final step in the Preferred 
Scenario phase of the General Plan Update.
The next phase of the project includes preparation of the goals, policies and actions that go into each Element of the 
General Plan.  The draft goals, policies and actions will be published this summer and presented to the public as part of the 
next round of community engagement.  Community workshops and General Plan Subcommittee meetings will be held 
over the summer, with meetings before the Planning Commission and City Council in the fall. Preparation of the Draft 
Environmental Impact Report (DEIR) to analyze potential environmental impacts from the General Plan Update will be 
happening concurrently with this phase. Publication of the Draft General Plan is targeted for the first half of 2023.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are no direct budgetary impacts to taking this action. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Once the City Council selects the preferred land use and circulation scenarios, preparation of the DEIR for the General Plan 
Update will commence.  Publication of the DEIR for public review is anticipated in the first half 2023 and will be finished 
prior to any formal decisions on the updated General Plan. The DEIR will have a 45-day public comment period once it is 
published. 
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
All comments submitted on this topic are available online at www.strivesanmateo.org/documents/publiccomments.  This 
link includes all comments that have been submitted since the beginning of the GPU effort in September 2018. 
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – General Plan Vision Statement
Att 2 – Land Use Alternatives Citywide
Att 3 – Land Use Alternatives by Study Area
Att 4 – Circulation Alternatives
Att 5 – Alternatives Evaluation Report
Att 6 – Summary of Community Outreach and Public Input  
Att 7 – Summary of Property Owner Land Use Requests 
Att 8 – 2022 Community Opinion Survey Summary Report
Att 9 – Planning Commission Recommended Land Use Alternative by Study Area 
Att 10 – Public Comments: www.strivesanmateo.org/documents/publiccomments
STAFF CONTACT
City of San Mateo 
PlaceWorks
Zachary Dahl, AICP, Deputy Director 
Joanna Jansen, AICP, LEED AP, Principal
(650) 522-7207 
generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org
127 of 509

--- page 128 ---
Our Vision: 
San Mateo is a vibrant, livable, diverse, and healthy community that respects the quality of 
its neighborhoods, fosters a flourishing economy, is committed to equity, and is a leader in 
environmental sustainability. 
Diversity 
We embrace 
diversity and 
respect the 
experiences, 
contributions, 
and aspirations 
of people of all 
ages, abilities, 
incomes, and 
backgrounds. 
We celebrate 
arts and 
culture. 
Balance 
We seek to 
balance  
well-designed 
development 
and thoughtful 
preservation 
with a full 
spectrum 
of choices 
for housing 
and effective 
transportation. 
Inclusivity
We strive 
to include 
everyone in 
community life 
and decisions 
for a shared, 
sustainable 
future.
Prosperity
We cultivate 
a diverse 
and thriving 
economy with 
different types 
of homes, jobs, 
recreation, 
lifelong learning 
opportunities, 
and services 
for both current 
and future 
generations.
Resiliency
We are leaders 
in sustainability, 
making San 
Mateo strong 
and resilient by 
acting boldly 
to adapt to 
a changing 
world. 
Our Values: 
Vision  
	&Values
San Mateo General Plan Update 
www.strivesanmateo.org
128 of 509

--- page 129 ---
I2
I2
I2
I2
I2
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
HILLSBOROUGH
FOSTER CITY
BELMONT
BURLINGAME
PENINSULA GOLF
AND COUNTRY
CLUB (UNINC)
Monte Diablo Ave
Alameda De Las Pulgas
Ke
hoe Ave
41st Ave
28th Ave
N
A
m
ph
let
t
Blvd
S N
orfolk S
t
W
39th Ave
Tilton Ave
El Ca
mino Real
W
Hills
d
al
e
B
lv
d
E
2
8t
h
Ave
E
d
i
n
bur
g
h
St
r
A
ve
16th Ave
S Delaware St
W
o
o
d
b
r
i
dge
C
ir
N E
l Camino Real
Saratog
a
D
r
Palm Av
e
S B St
P
ark
w
o
o
d Dr
C
l
ark
D
r
30t
h Av
e
31st
Ave
Monterey St
S
G
ra
n
t
S
t
Birch St
L
os
P
r
a
d
o
s
Ye
w
St
E Poplar Ave
Lodi
A
ve
Branson Dr
N
San Mateo Dr
S Amphlett Blvd
S
h
oa
l
Dr
Polhemu
s Rd
Mariners Island Blvd
Q
u
eens Ln
J Hart Clinton Dr
C
a
m
pus D
r
V
a
n Buren St
Hacienda St
2n
d
Ave
W
3
r
d
Av
e
C
r
e
s
c
e
n
t A
v
e
E 3rd Ave
D
e
Anza Blv
d
B
orel A
v
e
Sunnybrae Blvd
Eisenhower St
La Selva St
Humboldt St
43rd Ave
H
ar
va
rd
R
d
Dolores St
Cli
p
p
e
r
S
t
Laurel Ave
Fat
h
o
m
Dr
W
20t
h Ave
Norton St
Dale
Ave
Oregon Ave
Flores St
7th Ave
S Claremont St
Bucknell D
r
Maple St
San Miguel
Way
E 39th Ave
Virginia
A
v
e
Casanova Dr
E
40th Ave
L
i
v
e
Oa
k
Dr
Newbridge A
v
e
37t
h
A
ve
23rd Av
e
York Ave
C
l
e
arview W
ay
S Fremont St
Baldw
in Av
e
W
5
t
h
Ave
I
sabelle Ave
Fern
w
o
o
d
S
t
N Idaho St
Donner St
27th Ave
W 38th Ave
Edison St
Pacific
Bl
v
d
P
al
o
s
V
erd
e
s
Dr
K
i
m
berl
y
W
a
y
Huron A
v
e
Peninsula Ave
W
o
lf
e
D
r
R
o
b
er
t
a
Dr
S Quebec St
1st
A
v
e
N
Ellsworth Ave
Annapolis Dr
Kent St
Hamlet S
t
Ottawa St
En
s
e
n
a
d
a Ave
Sh
o
re
v
iew Ave
N Kingston St
17th Ave
Footh
i
ll D
r
Mason Ln
R
o
yal A
v
e
E
c
h
o Ave
O
cean View Ave
Laurie Meadows Dr
W
o
o
dland
D
r
L
o
s
Al
t
o
s
D
r
Nevada Ave
E Hillsdal
e
Ct
S Humboldt St
S Eldorado St
E
Hillsdale Blvd
Glendo
ra Dr
Fairfax
A
v
e
29th Ave
N Delaware St
Rolling Hills Ave
tal Ave
Woodberry Ave
N Claremont St
Hig
hl
a
n
d
Ave
W 40th Ave
Pico Ave
Sunset Ter
H
u
r
l
i
ngh
a
m
Av
e
M
a
r
i
n
a
Ct
C
r
e
s
tw
o
o
d
Dr
Avila Rd
C
o
lu
m
b
ia Dr
V
i
lla Ter
11th Ave
13th Ave
15th Ave
S Bays
hore Blvd
S Railroad A
v
e
Ram
o
na St
N Fremont St
N Grant St
Cobb St
Laurelwood Dr
Shafter St
Castilian Way
Meadow View Pl
Oak St
19th
Av
e
W 25th Ave
Georgetow
n
Ave
Poinset
tia Av
e
Madison Ave
N Rochester St
Verdun
A
v
e
Oneill Dr
Alhambra Rd
Guildford Ave
Fallon Ave
Brid
ge
pointe Pkw
y
Fa
irmont Dr
V
i
e
w
ridge
D
r
C
o
untry
s
ide Dr
Ch
e
r
ry
wood
Dr
S Norfolk St
S Delaware St
W
H
illsda
le Blv
d
San
Fran
cisco
Bay
£
¤
101
£
¤
101
·|}þ
 92 
·|}þ
 82 
·|}þ
 82 
!
10
!
2
!
9
!
6
!
8
!
3
!
4
!
5
!
7
!
1
·|}þ
 92 
El Camino Real
£
¤
101
N Norfolk St
S Idaho St
Alameda De Las Pulgas
N Humbolt St
E Poplar Ave
3rd Ave
Alame
d
a De
L
as Pulga
s
Fas
h
ion
I
sl
and
B
lvd
W Hill
s
dale
B
lv
d
Parrot
Dr
Ba
yr
id
ge
Way
New Brunswick Dr
Ascension Dr
Burlingame
San
Mateo
Hayward Park
Hillsdale
(Future)
Belmont
Source data: City of San Mateo, 2019; San Mateo County, 2018; Esri, 2019; PlaceWorks, 2019.
LAND USE ALTERNATIVES - ALTERNATIVE A
I2 Caltrain Station
P
Privately Owned Public Open Space
Caltrain
Study Areas
San Mateo City Limit
Sphere of Influence
Historic Districts
1,000 Foot Radius Around Caltrain
½ Mile Radius Around Caltrain
0
0.5
0.25
Miles
Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
Office Low (1-3 stories)
Office Medium (4-7 stories)
Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Parks/ Open Space
Public Facilities
Quasi-Public
Transportation Corridor
Utilities
Land Use Change Areas
129 of 509

--- page 130 ---
I2
I2
I2
I2
I2
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
HILLSBOROUGH
FOSTER CITY
BELMONT
BURLINGAME
PENINSULA GOLF
AND COUNTRY
CLUB (UNINC)
Monte Diablo Ave
Alameda De Las Pulgas
Ke
hoe Ave
41st Ave
28th Ave
N
A
m
ph
let
t
Blvd
S N
orfolk S
t
W
39th Ave
Tilton Ave
El Ca
mino Real
W
Hills
d
al
e
B
lv
d
E
2
8t
h
Ave
E
d
i
n
bur
g
h
St
r
A
ve
16th Ave
S Delaware St
W
o
o
d
b
r
i
dge
C
ir
N E
l Camino Real
Saratog
a
D
r
Palm Av
e
S B St
P
ark
w
o
o
d Dr
C
l
ark
D
r
30t
h Av
e
31st
Ave
Monterey St
S
G
ra
n
t
S
t
Birch St
L
os
P
r
a
d
o
s
Ye
w
St
E Poplar Ave
Lodi
A
ve
Branson Dr
N
San Mateo Dr
S Amphlett Blvd
S
h
oa
l
Dr
Polhemu
s Rd
Mariners Island Blvd
Q
u
eens Ln
J Hart Clinton Dr
C
a
m
pus D
r
V
a
n Buren St
Hacienda St
2n
d
Ave
W
3
r
d
Av
e
C
r
e
s
c
e
n
t A
v
e
E 3rd Ave
D
e
Anza Blv
d
B
orel A
v
e
Sunnybrae Blvd
Eisenhower St
La Selva St
Humboldt St
43rd Ave
H
ar
va
rd
R
d
Dolores St
Cli
p
p
e
r
S
t
Laurel Ave
Fat
h
o
m
Dr
W
20t
h Ave
Norton St
Dale
Ave
Oregon Ave
Flores St
7th Ave
S Claremont St
Bucknell D
r
Maple St
San Miguel
Way
E 39th Ave
Virginia
A
v
e
Casanova Dr
E
40th Ave
L
i
v
e
Oa
k
Dr
Newbridge A
v
e
37t
h
A
ve
23rd Av
e
York Ave
C
l
e
arview W
ay
S Fremont St
Baldw
in Av
e
W
5
t
h
Ave
I
sabelle Ave
Fern
w
o
o
d
S
t
N Idaho St
Donner St
27th Ave
W 38th Ave
Edison St
Pacific
Bl
v
d
P
al
o
s
V
erd
e
s
Dr
K
i
m
berl
y
W
a
y
Huron A
v
e
Peninsula Ave
W
o
lf
e
D
r
R
o
b
er
t
a
Dr
S Quebec St
1st
A
v
e
N
Ellsworth Ave
Annapolis Dr
Kent St
Hamlet S
t
Ottawa St
En
s
e
n
a
d
a Ave
Sh
o
re
v
iew Ave
N Kingston St
17th Ave
Footh
i
ll D
r
Mason Ln
R
o
yal A
v
e
E
c
h
o Ave
O
cean View Ave
Laurie Meadows Dr
W
o
o
dland
D
r
L
o
s
Al
t
o
s
D
r
Nevada Ave
E Hillsdal
e
Ct
S Humboldt St
S Eldorado St
E
Hillsdale Blvd
Glendo
ra Dr
Fairfax
A
v
e
29th Ave
N Delaware St
Rolling Hills Ave
tal Ave
Woodberry Ave
N Claremont St
Hig
hl
a
n
d
Ave
W 40th Ave
Pico Ave
Sunset Ter
H
u
r
l
i
ngh
a
m
Av
e
M
a
r
i
n
a
Ct
C
r
e
s
tw
o
o
d
Dr
Avila Rd
C
o
lu
m
b
ia Dr
V
i
lla Ter
11th Ave
13th Ave
15th Ave
S Bays
hore Blvd
S Railroad A
v
e
Ram
o
na St
N Fremont St
N Grant St
Cobb St
Laurelwood Dr
Shafter St
Castilian Way
Meadow View Pl
Oak St
19th
Av
e
W 25th Ave
Georgetow
n
Ave
Poinset
tia Av
e
Madison Ave
N Rochester St
Verdun
A
v
e
Oneill Dr
Alhambra Rd
Guildford Ave
Fallon Ave
Brid
ge
pointe Pkw
y
Fa
irmont Dr
V
i
e
w
ridge
D
r
C
o
untry
s
ide Dr
Ch
e
r
ry
wood
Dr
S Norfolk St
S Delaware St
W
H
illsda
le Blv
d
San
Fran
cisco
Bay
£
¤
101
£
¤
101
·|}þ
 92 
·|}þ
 82 
·|}þ
 82 
!
10
!
2
!
9
!
6
!
8
!
3
!
4
!
5
!
7
!
1
·|}þ
 92 
El Camino Real
£
¤
101
N Norfolk St
S Idaho St
Alameda De Las Pulgas
N Humbolt St
E Poplar Ave
3rd Ave
Alame
d
a De
L
as Pulga
s
Fas
h
ion
I
sl
and
B
lvd
W Hill
s
dale
B
lv
d
Parrot
Dr
Ba
yr
id
ge
Way
New Brunswick Dr
Ascension Dr
Burlingame
San
Mateo
Hayward Park
Hillsdale
(Future)
Belmont
Source data: City of San Mateo, 2019; San Mateo County, 2018; Esri, 2019; PlaceWorks, 2019.
LAND USE ALTERNATIVES - ALTERNATIVE B
I2 Caltrain Station
P
Privately Owned Public Open Space
Caltrain
Study Areas
San Mateo City Limit
Sphere of Influence
Historic Districts
1,000 Foot Radius Around Caltrain
½ Mile Radius Around Caltrain
0
0.5
0.25
Miles
Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
Office Low (1-3 stories)
Office Medium (4-7 stories)
Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Parks/ Open Space
Public Facilities
Quasi-Public
Transportation Corridor
Utilities
Land Use Change Areas
130 of 509

--- page 131 ---
I2
I2
I2
I2
I2
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
HILLSBOROUGH
FOSTER CITY
BELMONT
BURLINGAME
PENINSULA GOLF
AND COUNTRY
CLUB (UNINC)
Monte Diablo Ave
Alameda De Las Pulgas
Ke
hoe Ave
41st Ave
28th Ave
N
A
m
ph
let
t
Blvd
S N
orfolk S
t
W
39th Ave
Tilton Ave
El Ca
mino Real
W
Hills
d
al
e
B
lv
d
E
2
8t
h
Ave
E
d
i
n
bur
g
h
St
r
A
ve
16th Ave
S Delaware St
W
o
o
d
b
r
i
dge
C
ir
N E
l Camino Real
Saratog
a
D
r
Palm Av
e
S B St
P
ark
w
o
o
d Dr
C
l
ark
D
r
30t
h Av
e
31st
Ave
Monterey St
S
G
ra
n
t
S
t
Birch St
L
os
P
r
a
d
o
s
Ye
w
St
E Poplar Ave
Lodi
A
ve
Branson Dr
N
San Mateo Dr
S Amphlett Blvd
S
h
oa
l
Dr
Polhemu
s Rd
Mariners Island Blvd
Q
u
eens Ln
J Hart Clinton Dr
C
a
m
pus D
r
V
a
n Buren St
Hacienda St
2n
d
Ave
W
3
r
d
Av
e
C
r
e
s
c
e
n
t A
v
e
E 3rd Ave
D
e
Anza Blv
d
B
orel A
v
e
Sunnybrae Blvd
Eisenhower St
La Selva St
Humboldt St
43rd Ave
H
ar
va
rd
R
d
Dolores St
Cli
p
p
e
r
S
t
Laurel Ave
Fat
h
o
m
Dr
W
20t
h Ave
Norton St
Dale
Ave
Oregon Ave
Flores St
7th Ave
S Claremont St
Bucknell D
r
Maple St
San Miguel
Way
E 39th Ave
Virginia
A
v
e
Casanova Dr
E
40th Ave
L
i
v
e
Oa
k
Dr
Newbridge A
v
e
37t
h
A
ve
23rd Av
e
York Ave
C
l
e
arview W
ay
S Fremont St
Baldw
in Av
e
W
5
t
h
Ave
I
sabelle Ave
Fern
w
o
o
d
S
t
N Idaho St
Donner St
27th Ave
W 38th Ave
Edison St
Pacific
Bl
v
d
P
al
o
s
V
erd
e
s
Dr
K
i
m
berl
y
W
a
y
Huron A
v
e
Peninsula Ave
W
o
lf
e
D
r
R
o
b
er
t
a
Dr
S Quebec St
1st
A
v
e
N
Ellsworth Ave
Annapolis Dr
Kent St
Hamlet S
t
Ottawa St
En
s
e
n
a
d
a Ave
Sh
o
re
v
iew Ave
N Kingston St
17th Ave
Footh
i
ll D
r
Mason Ln
R
o
yal A
v
e
E
c
h
o Ave
O
cean View Ave
Laurie Meadows Dr
W
o
o
dland
D
r
L
o
s
Al
t
o
s
D
r
Nevada Ave
E Hillsdal
e
Ct
S Humboldt St
S Eldorado St
E
Hillsdale Blvd
Glendo
ra Dr
Fairfax
A
v
e
29th Ave
N Delaware St
Rolling Hills Ave
tal Ave
Woodberry Ave
N Claremont St
Hig
hl
a
n
d
Ave
W 40th Ave
Pico Ave
Sunset Ter
H
u
r
l
i
ngh
a
m
Av
e
M
a
r
i
n
a
Ct
C
r
e
s
tw
o
o
d
Dr
Avila Rd
C
o
lu
m
b
ia Dr
V
i
lla Ter
11th Ave
13th Ave
15th Ave
S Bays
hore Blvd
S Railroad A
v
e
Ram
o
na St
N Fremont St
N Grant St
Cobb St
Laurelwood Dr
Shafter St
Castilian Way
Meadow View Pl
Oak St
19th
Av
e
W 25th Ave
Georgetow
n
Ave
Poinset
tia Av
e
Madison Ave
N Rochester St
Verdun
A
v
e
Oneill Dr
Alhambra Rd
Guildford Ave
Fallon Ave
Brid
ge
pointe Pkw
y
Fa
irmont Dr
V
i
e
w
ridge
D
r
C
o
untry
s
ide Dr
Ch
e
r
ry
wood
Dr
S Norfolk St
S Delaware St
W
H
illsda
le Blv
d
San
Fran
cisco
Bay
£
¤
101
£
¤
101
·|}þ
 92 
·|}þ
 82 
·|}þ
 82 
!
10
!
2
!
9
!
6
!
8
!
3
!
4
!
5
!
7
!
1
·|}þ
 92 
El Camino Real
£
¤
101
N Norfolk St
S Idaho St
Alameda De Las Pulgas
N Humbolt St
E Poplar Ave
3rd Ave
Alame
d
a De
L
as Pulga
s
Fas
h
ion
I
sl
and
B
lvd
W Hill
s
dale
B
lv
d
Parrot
Dr
Ba
yr
id
ge
Way
New Brunswick Dr
Ascension Dr
Burlingame
San
Mateo
Hayward Park
Hillsdale
(Future)
Belmont
Source data: City of San Mateo, 2019; San Mateo County, 2018; Esri, 2019; PlaceWorks, 2019.
LAND USE ALTERNATIVES - ALTERNATIVE C
I2 Caltrain Station
P
Privately Owned Public Open Space
Caltrain
Study Areas
San Mateo City Limit
Sphere of Influence
Historic Districts
1,000 Foot Radius Around Caltrain
½ Mile Radius Around Caltrain
0
0.5
0.25
Miles
Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
Office Low (1-3 stories)
Office Medium (4-7 stories)
Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Parks/ Open Space
Public Facilities
Quasi-Public
Transportation Corridor
Utilities
Land Use Change Areas
131 of 509

--- page 132 ---
Alternative A

[ | Study Areas

i.._? San Mateo City Limit

(=) sphere of Influence

iJ a4 Historic Districts

®) Privately Owned Public Open Space
* Property Owner Requests

Bo Caltrain Station

‘@) @) 0.25

Alternative B

— Caltrain
'_,. * 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain

I. .} ¥2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain

Housing Element - Adequate Sites

Hititi Pipeline Projects

Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
(HE Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HE Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)

Miles

Alternative C

|) Commercial Service (1-3 stories)

(HE Commercial Regional (3+ stories)

HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
[HN Office Low (1-3 stories)

ME Office Medium (4-7 stories)

HEM Office High (8+ stories)

[| Research and Development (3+ stories)
GE Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)

|| Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
[NN Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
GM Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
HN Parks/ Open Space

[Public Facilities

HE Quasi-Public

HEE Transportation Corridor

|) Utilities

wieys Area 1-N


--- page 133 ---
Alternative A

C3 Study Areas

{_.? San Mateo City Limit

(3 Sphere of Influence
i, J ua Historic Districts

®) Privately Owned Public Open Space
* Property Owner Requests

B Caltrain Station

‘@) 0

Alternative B

GZ

OX
io

OK

Y

Om

— Caltrain

1. 2 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain
I _1 ¥2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain
Housing Element - Adequate Sites

titi: Pipeline Projects

Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
(HE Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HE Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)

0.5
Miles

Alternative C

[| Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
[Commercial Regional (3+ stories)

HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
[MN Office Low (1-3 stories)

ME Office Medium (4-7 stories)

HEME Office High (8+ stories)

[| Research and Development (3+ stories)
(EE Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)

|_| Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
[NN Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HE Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
HM Parks/ Open Space

[NN Public Facilities

HE Quasi-Public

HEE Transportation Corridor

[7] Utilities

siugdy Area 1-C


--- page 134 ---
Alternative A Alternative B Alternative C

C3 study Areas — Caltrain |) Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
i. San Mateo City Limit 1." 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain [EE Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
(2) sphere of Influence I _1 ¥2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
1, , es Historic Districts Housing Element - Adequate Sites [HN Office Low (1-3 stories)
@®) Privately Owned Public Open Space PHD Pipeline Projects ME Office Medium (4-7 stories)

Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac) HEM Office High (8+ stories)

ke Property Owner Requests
* erty 4 (HN Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac) [7 Research and Development (3+ stories)

[1] Caltrain station HE Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac) J Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)

) 0.25 0.5
Miles

|_| Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
[NN Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
HN Parks/ Open Space

[NN Public Facilities

HE Quasi-Public

HEE Transportation Corridor

[) Utilities

inlay Area 1-S


--- page 135 ---
Alternative A Alternative B Alternative C

aDr
Curtiss'St

Curtiss St

LT TT]

Orinda) Dr

‘Orind

L
_—

i
|
al
eS
S|
—_.

George Ave——

C3 study Areas — Caltrain {| Commercial Service (1-3 stories) |_| Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
i. San Mateo City Limit 1" 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain (EE Commercial Regional (3+ stories) [7] Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
(=) sphere of Influence I _1 ¥2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories) MM Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
1, , en Historic Districts Housing Element - Adequate Sites [HN Office Low (1-3 stories) HM Parks/ Open Space

@®) Privately Owned Public Open Space IHD Pipeline Projects ME Office Medium (4-7 stories) (MN Public Facilities

F |) Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac) HE Office High (8+ stories) HE Quasi-Public

¥%& Property Owner Requests — ; ; ; ; ;

ian (NN Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac) [7 Research and Development (3+ stories) HE Transportation Corridor

| Caltrain Station HE Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac) (EE Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories) [) Utilities

0 0.25 0.5
® Miles 35 atey Area 2



--- page 136 ---
Alternative A

Ke
> OS VORA RS
DSK Opewdis a

Ce study Areas
a

L.._! San Mateo City Limit

(=) Sphere of Influence

t, . 1 Historic Districts

@®) Privately Owned Public Open Space
* Property Owner Requests

Ba Caltrain Station

0 0.25 0.5

eS Miles

Alternative B

We AMAAEN Sie
Kay EG

ves
ou Bk
— Caltrain
1" 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain
I _1 ¥ Mile Radius Around Caltrain
Housing Element - Adequate Sites
HHH Pipeline Projects
Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
(HE Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)

HE Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)

Xs XS A
She Saale
OW: HG

AWK 4
> $ Ne BEN aS SZ
oy STIS Rs A

Alternative C

|) Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
(Commercial Regional (3+ stories)

HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
[HN Office Low (1-3 stories)

ME Office Medium (4-7 stories)

HEM Office High (8+ stories)

[| Research and Development (3+ stories)
GE Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)

|_| Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
[NS Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
[MN Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
HN Parks/ Open Space

[NH Public Facilities

HE Quasi-Public

HEE Transportation Corridor

[) Utilities

36 abedy Area 3


--- page 137 ---
Alternative B Alternative C

Alternative A

Gl

PF

IS

LZ

OX
GY
Ca

U5

9 to 39 du/ac)

7 stories, 40

3 stories,

Mixed-Use Low (1-

=

3 stories)

_ Commercial Service (1-

[HE Commercial Regional (3+ stories)

— =

— Caltrain

CJ study Areas

99 du/ac)

[NN Mixed-Use Medium (4

HE Mixed

000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain

r

1

San Mateo City Limit

=
H
'

L.-—

100 to 200 du/ac)

-Use High (8+ stories,

2 stories)

HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-

a o

Y2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain

Io
VJ] Housing Element

(3 Sphere of Influence

HN Parks/ Open Space
[NE Public Facilities

EE Quasi-

3 stories)

ffice Low (1

- Adequate Sites

Historic Districts

eel

7 stories)

ffice High (8+ stories)

ffice Medium (4

| te

iI! Pipeline Projects
Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)

[ Residential Medium (4

®) Privately Owned Public Open Space

Public

Mo

* Property Owner Requests

HEE Transportation Corridor

[7] Utilities

{7} Research and Development (3+ stories)

40-99 du/ac)

/ stories,

[EE Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)

100 to 200 du/ac)

HE Residential High (8+ stories,

Caltrain Station

0.5

0.25

137 a tey Area 4

Miles

‘@) 0


--- page 138 ---
ROG YO Sa
G

Alternative B Alternative C

Alternative A

\77

ey
aN

SZ

A

ISS

S<

}

TER
UNO
NS

SS

da

TA

_ Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)

| | Commercial Service (1-3 stories)

— Caltrain

C3 Study Areas

[NN Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)

EE Commercial Regional (3+ stories)

1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain
Y2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain

San Mateo City Limit

=
H
'

L..—

HN Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)

HN Parks/ Open Space
[NE Public Facilities

2 stories)

HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-

[HN Office Low (1-3 stories)

(2) sphere of Influence

Adequate Sites

Historic Districts

eel

Housing Element

[Office Medium (4-7 stories)

=I! Pipeline Projects

[] Residential Low (1

®) Privately Owned Public Open Space

HE Quasi-Public

HEME Office High (8+ stories)

9 to 39 du/ac)

3 stories,

* Property Owner Requests

HEE Transportation Corridor

|) Utilities

____| Research and Development (3+ stories)

40-99 du/ac)

/ stories,

(Residential Medium (4

3s ateydy Area 5

GE Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)

100 to 200 du/ac)

Miles

HE Residential High (8+ stories,

0.25 0.5

Caltrain Station

® :


--- page 139 ---
Alternative A

[ | Study Areas

i.._? San Mateo City Limit

(=) sphere of Influence

i, on Historic Districts

@®) Privately Owned Public Open Space
*« Property Owner Requests

{ia | Caltrain Station

‘@) @) 0.25

Alternative B

— Caltrain
'_. * 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain

I. .} ¥%2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain

Housing Element - Adequate Sites

Hit! Pipeline Projects

| 7 Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)

(HN Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)

HE Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
0.5

Miles

Alternative C

EY i)
(Way ~
O>-2

Count

Commercial Service (1-3 stories)

(EE Commercial Regional (3+ stories)

HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
[EE Office Low (1-3 stories)

[Office Medium (4-7 stories)

HEME Office High (8+ stories)

[) Research and Development (3+ stories)
[EE Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)

| | Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
[PN Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
HM Parks/ Open Space

[NN Public Facilities

HE Quasi-Public

HE Transportation Corridor

[) Utilities

139 ately Area 6


--- page 140 ---
Alternative C

Alternative B

as)

es

o$ 3s

g, st

Sto

zs as

ass

mo? 2

£8

an Va

7 Oo W

wn

290

BN
.
an + DB (e)
om + =
4 Eo Y Ss
Y2izs 8

a
azoand §
JS2e2irticB VS
ggzggarzae
Xa DD Ora CG yg
sbouwsy7,weia FL
ooolei ge? se
ZEZRERB SSE
=2zaaqaaor sa
=~
an wn
3} oe
5 5
: Bo
Yy ren,) n 5

Vs

3 PANS 5s 2c ~ >So
CAI mer a? 5 G a
x¢ CA oh 8.222
SKA CANO ave ws 3
OOP \\ : SC S>e5 2 nes 8
- =
S \ veg Gn60 B
A < scaoere Oo
S : oRvOR EZVTE
oe . oeeusfes
2S © se aHose
Oo 0 OC oe f
oOooOoT37FZ TDS
££ &€weo9eo 8 8
EEtEeELv ee
6 Oo OE EE G
OO0OO0O0O ke F&F

100 to 200 du/ac)

1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain
Y2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain

Housing Element - Adequate Sites

(HE Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)

Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
HE Residential High (8+ stories,

40 ately Area 7

Alternative A

as eS INS

(2) Sphere of Influence

=
ta wt Historic Districts

C3 study Areas
i...

Ls]

8
fe)
— &
“4 &
SEDO = 5
NSS \ io 2
Wo [S} a
wes . _
ity!
%)
vu
n=
fo)
vo
oO
@
a
179)
o
fay Ww
oF N
2 vo [e)
5 a
me} ra
<
Fy e ¢€ 5s
9 = s 4%
oO wn
o o =
= - G&G G6 O
© a s
< => o #
© c pas o
Wn a a UO


--- page 141 ---
Alternative A Alternative B Alternative C

Slips Eye HT irralk Ave

LLL DASA Fee LLL Ly
Ea bnedtad pe SQW Shag) pi EastlarrisonrAve
‘gS | 11 = SHU Pa LST] 7

eNve

connie SN

)

19th Ave

i

Hivani Sta,

TT
xas:Wa'
Hreet
in;Wa
i,

|

}ExaS}

MH

#577

Sassi vetetrsinln Tyee Omi a
wn w
= =
C3 study Areas — Caltrain |) Commercial Service (1-3 stories) ____| Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
i... San Mateo City Limit _ . 2 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain [Commercial Regional (3+ stories) [9] Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
(2) Sphere of Influence I _1 ¥2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories) GM Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
1, . es Historic Districts Housing Element - Adequate Sites [HN Office Low (1-3 stories) MM Parks/ Open Space
®) Privately Owned Public Open Space : Pipeline Projects I Office Medium (4-7 stories) (NN Public Facilities
Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac) HEM Office High (8+ stories) GH Quasi-Public
* Property Owner Requests ; ; . ; : ; . .
— (HN Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac) Research and Development (3+ stories) HM Transportation Corridor
EI cattrain station HEI Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac) [EEN Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories) [NT Utilities

0 0.25 0.5


--- page 142 ---
Alternative A Alternative B

| a | Study Areas

i.._} San Mateo City Limit
(=) sphere of Influence
t, . wa Historic Districts

®) Privately Owned Public Open Space

— Caltrain
1" 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain

I. .} ¥2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain

Housing Element - Adequate Sites

Hiitt Pipeline Projects

Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
(HE Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HE Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)

) 0.25 0.5
Miles

* Property Owner Requests
a Caltrain Station

Alternative C

AYO OD

{| Commercial Service (1-3 stories)

(EE Commercial Regional (3+ stories)

HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
[NN Office Low (1-3 stories)

ME Office Medium (4-7 stories)

HEM Office High (8+ stories)

[| Research and Development (3+ stories)
GE Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)

x
aX.
WAC 'S
)

Saye
We

SG OS
: COA&CAG
5 Wie SN

|_| Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
[NE Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
[MN Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
HN Parks/ Open Space

[NH Public Facilities

HE Quasi-Public

HEE Transportation Corridor

[) Utilities

a2 atedy Area 9


--- page 143 ---
Alternative A

tare al
es
sl
aS a,
WO Ws
JF
WN \B\

Shoal:Dr

[ | Study Areas

i... San Mateo City Limit

(EC) sphere of Influence

i, on Historic Districts

@®) Privately Owned Public Open Space
* Property Owner Requests

B Caltrain Station

‘@) @) 0.25

Alternative B

ners |sland Biv

Se

— Caltrain
1" 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain

I. .} ¥%2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain

Housing Element - Adequate Sites

Hitiii Pipeline Projects

|) Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
(HN Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HE Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)

0.5
Miles

Alternative C

| Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
(Commercial Regional (3+ stories)

HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
[NN Office Low (1-3 stories)

ME Office Medium (4-7 stories)

HEME Office High (8+ stories)

7) Research and Development (3+ stories)

(EE Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)

AOs
TW 8g)

Shoal DF ae me

|_| Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
[PP Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
ME Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
HN Parks/ Open Space

[NN Public Facilities

HE Quasi-Public

HEE Transportation Corridor

|) Utilities

usduesy Area 10


--- page 144 ---
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
I2
I2
I2
I2
I2
HILLSBOROUGH
FOSTER CITY
BELMONT
BURLINGAME
PENINSULA GOLF
AND COUNTRY
CLUB (UNINC)
Monte Diablo Ave
Alameda De Las Pulgas
Ke
hoe Ave
41st Ave
28th Ave
p
h
l
e
tt
Blvd
S N
orfol
k St
W
39th Ave
Tilton Ave
El Ca
mino Real
W
Hill
s
da
le
Bl
vd
E
28t
h
Ave
E
d
inburgh
St
W
P
o
p
l
a
r
A
ve
16th Ave
S Delaware St
W
o
o
d
b
r
i
dge
C
ir
N E
l Camino Real
Sarato
ga
D
r
Palm Av
e
S B St
P
a
r
kwood
C
l
ark
D
r
30th
Av
e
31st
Ave
Monterey St
S
Gr
a
nt
St
Birch St
Los
P
r
a
d
o
s
Yew
St
E Poplar Ave
Lodi
Av
e
Branson Dr
h
Blv
d
N
San Mateo Dr
S Amphlett Blvd
Sh
oal
Dr
Polhe
mus
Rd
Mariners Island Blvd
Q
u
ee
ns Ln
J Hart Clinton Dr
C
a
m
p
u
s Dr
V
a
n
Buren St
Hacienda St
2n
d
Ave
W
3
r
d
A
v
e
C
re
s
c
e
n
t
A
v
e
E 3rd Ave
D
e
Anza Blv
d
B
o
r
el
A
v
e
Sunnybrae Blvd
Eisenhower St
La Selva St
N Humboldt St
43rd Ave
H
ar
va
rd
R
d
Dolores St
Cli
p
p
e
r
St
Laurel Ave
Fa
t
h
o
m
Dr
W
20th
Ave
Norton St
Dale
Ave
Oregon Ave
Flores St
7th Ave
S Claremont St
Bucknell
D
r
Maple St
San Miguel
Way
E 39th Ave
Virginia
A
v
e
Casanova Dr
E
40th Ave
E
dg
e
w
o
o
d
R
d
L
i
v
e
O
a
k
Dr
Newbridge A
v
e
37
th
A
v
e
23rd A
ve
York Ave
C
l
e
arview W
ay
S Fremont St
Baldw
i
n Ave
W
5
th
Ave
Is
abelle
Ave
Fer
n
w
o
o
d
St
N Idaho St
Donner St
27th Ave
W 38th Ave
Edison St
Pacific
Bl
v
d
P
a
l
o
s
V
erd
es
Dr
Kim
b
er
ly
W
a
y
Huron
A
v
e
Peninsula Ave
W
ol
fe
Dr
R
o
be
rt
a
Dr
S Quebec St
1st
A
v
e
N
Ellsworth Ave
Annapolis Dr
Kent St
Hamlet St
Ottawa St
E
n
s
e
n
a
d
a Ave
Sho
r
e
vi
e
w
Ave
N Kingston St
17th Ave
Fo
o
t
h
i
l
l
D
r
Mason Ln
R
o
y
al
A
v
e
E
c
h
o
Ave
O
cean View Ave
Laurie Meadows Dr
W
o
o
d
l
a
n
d
D
r
L
o
s
A
l
t
o
s
Dr
Nevada Ave
E Hill
s
d
al
e
Ct
S Humboldt St
S Eldorado St
E
Hillsdale Blvd
Glend
ora
D
r
Fairfax
A
ve
29th Ave
N Delaware St
Rolling Hills Ave
Occidental Ave
Woodberry Ave
N Claremont St
Hig
hl
a
n
d
Ave
W 40th Ave
Pico Ave
Sunset Ter
H
u
r
li
ng
h
am
Av
e
M
a
r
i
n
a
Ct
C
r
est
wo
o
d
Dr
Avila Rd
Col
u
m
bi
a
Dr
V
i
lla
Ter
11th Ave
13th Ave
15th Ave
S Bays
hore Blvd
S Railroad A
v
e
Ram
on
a St
N Fremont St
N Grant St
Cobb St
Laurelwood Dr
Shafter St
Castilian Way
Meadow View Pl
Oak St
19th
Ave
W 25th Ave
Geor
g
e
t
o
w
n
Ave
Poinsettia
Ave
Madison Ave
N Rochester St
Verdun
A
v
e
Oneill Dr
Alhambra Rd
Guildford Ave
Fallon Ave
Bri
d
ge
po
in
te Pkwy
Fa
irmont Dr
V
i
e
w
r
i
d
g
e
Dr
C
o
untrysid
e Dr
Ch
e
r
ry
wood
Dr
S Norfolk St
S Delaware St
W    
Hil
lsd
ale
 Bl
vd
San 
Fra
nci
sco
 Ba
y
£
¤
101
£
¤
101
·|}þ
 92 
·|}þ
 82 
·|}þ
 82 
!
10
!
2
!
9
!
6
!
8
!
3
!
4
!
5
!
7
!
1
·|}þ
 92 
El Camino Real
£
¤
101
N Norfolk St
S Idaho St
Alameda De Las Pulgas
N Humbolt St
E Poplar Ave
3rd Ave
Ala
me
da
 D
e L
as P
ulgas
Fa
s
h
ion
 Isl
an
d Blv
d
W H
ill
s
da
le
 B
lv
d
Par
ro
t D
r
B
a
y
ri
dg
e
 
Way
Lex
in
g
to
n 
A
v
e
New B
Ascension Dr
Burlingame
San Mateo
Hayward Park
Hillsdale
(Future)
Belmont
Alternative A: Prioritizing a Walkable City 
This alternative aims to create walkable communities 
throughout San Mateo by prioritizing pedestrian 
corridors, pedestrian improvements to challenging 
intersections, and implementing traffic calming and 
safety improvements near highway onramps. This 
alternative envisions a two-block pedestrian-only street 
downtown. All the alternatives assume pedestrian and 
bicycle improvements consistent with existing City 
planning documents.
Alternative A: Circulation
Crossing Improvements
!
Current Caltrain At-Grade Crossings
!
Proposed Pedestrian Crossing 
Improvements
!
Proposed Peninsula Interchange 
Project 
Line Improvements
2012 Proposed Pedestrian Priority Network
Transit Improvements
El Camino Real Bikeway and Public Realm Improvements
ExisƟng Bikeways
ExisƟng Shared Bike and Ped Path
Pedestrian-Only Space
Proposed Bikeways
Proposed Shared Bike and Ped Path
Missing Sidewalks
ExisƟng Pedestrian Mall 
(Street Closure)
Sphere of Inﬂuence
Study Area
I2
Caltrain StaƟon
 Map Legend
Source data: 
City of San Mateo, 2019; 
San Mateo County, 2018; Esri, 
2019; PlaceWorks, 2019; 
Nelson Nygaard, 2020.
0
Scale (Miles)
.5
144 of 509

--- page 145 ---
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
I2
I2
I2
I2
I2
HILLSBOROUGH
FOSTER CITY
BELMONT
BURLINGAME
PENINSULA GOLF
AND COUNTRY
CLUB (UNINC)
Monte Diablo Ave
Alameda De Las Pulgas
Ke
hoe Ave
41st Ave
28th Ave
p
h
l
e
tt
Blvd
S N
orfol
k St
W
39th Ave
Tilton Ave
El Ca
mino Real
W
Hill
s
da
le
Bl
vd
E
28t
h
Ave
E
d
inburgh
St
W
P
o
p
l
a
r
A
ve
16th Ave
S Delaware St
W
o
o
d
b
r
i
dge
C
ir
N E
l Camino Real
Sarato
ga
D
r
Palm Av
e
S B St
P
a
r
kwood
C
l
ark
D
r
30th
Av
e
31st
Ave
Monterey St
S
Gr
a
nt
St
Birch St
Los
P
r
a
d
o
s
Yew
St
E Poplar Ave
Lodi
Av
e
Branson Dr
h
Blv
d
N
San Mateo Dr
S Amphlett Blvd
Sh
oal
Dr
Polhe
mus
Rd
Mariners Island Blvd
Q
u
ee
ns Ln
J Hart Clinton Dr
C
a
m
p
u
s Dr
V
a
n
Buren St
Hacienda St
2n
d
Ave
W
3
r
d
A
v
e
C
re
s
c
e
n
t
A
v
e
E 3rd Ave
D
e
Anza Blv
d
B
o
r
el
A
v
e
Sunnybrae Blvd
Eisenhower St
La Selva St
N Humboldt St
43rd Ave
H
ar
va
rd
R
d
Dolores St
Cli
p
p
e
r
St
Laurel Ave
Fa
t
h
o
m
Dr
W
20th
Ave
Norton St
Dale
Ave
Oregon Ave
Flores St
7th Ave
S Claremont St
Bucknell
D
r
Maple St
San Miguel
Way
E 39th Ave
Virginia
A
v
e
Casanova Dr
E
40th Ave
E
dg
e
w
o
o
d
R
d
L
i
v
e
O
a
k
Dr
Newbridge A
v
e
37
th
A
v
e
23rd A
ve
York Ave
C
l
e
arview W
ay
S Fremont St
Baldw
i
n Ave
W
5
th
Ave
Is
abelle
Ave
Fer
n
w
o
o
d
St
N Idaho St
Donner St
27th Ave
W 38th Ave
Edison St
Pacific
Bl
v
d
P
a
l
o
s
V
erd
es
Dr
Kim
b
er
ly
W
a
y
Huron
A
v
e
Peninsula Ave
W
ol
fe
Dr
R
o
be
rt
a
Dr
S Quebec St
1st
A
v
e
N
Ellsworth Ave
Annapolis Dr
Kent St
Hamlet St
Ottawa St
E
n
s
e
n
a
d
a Ave
Sho
r
e
vi
e
w
Ave
N Kingston St
17th Ave
Fo
o
t
h
i
l
l
D
r
Mason Ln
R
o
y
al
A
v
e
E
c
h
o
Ave
O
cean View Ave
Laurie Meadows Dr
W
o
o
d
l
a
n
d
D
r
L
o
s
A
l
t
o
s
Dr
Nevada Ave
E Hill
s
d
al
e
Ct
S Humboldt St
S Eldorado St
E
Hillsdale Blvd
Glend
ora
D
r
Fairfax
A
ve
29th Ave
N Delaware St
Rolling Hills Ave
Occidental Ave
Woodberry Ave
N Claremont St
Hig
hl
a
n
d
Ave
W 40th Ave
Pico Ave
Sunset Ter
H
u
r
li
ng
h
am
Av
e
M
a
r
i
n
a
Ct
C
r
est
wo
o
d
Dr
Avila Rd
Col
u
m
bi
a
Dr
V
i
lla
Ter
11th Ave
13th Ave
15th Ave
S Bays
hore Blvd
S Railroad A
v
e
Ram
on
a St
N Fremont St
N Grant St
Cobb St
Laurelwood Dr
Shafter St
Castilian Way
Meadow View Pl
Oak St
19th
Ave
W 25th Ave
Geor
g
e
t
o
w
n
Ave
Poinsettia
Ave
Madison Ave
N Rochester St
Verdun
A
v
e
Oneill Dr
Alhambra Rd
Guildford Ave
Fallon Ave
Bri
d
ge
po
in
te Pkwy
Fa
irmont Dr
V
i
e
w
r
i
d
g
e
Dr
C
o
untrysid
e Dr
Ch
e
r
ry
wood
Dr
S Norfolk St
S Delaware St
W    
Hil
lsd
ale
 Bl
vd
San 
Fra
nci
sco
 Ba
y
£
¤
101
£
¤
101
·|}þ
 92 
·|}þ
 82 
·|}þ
 82 
!
10
!
2
!
9
!
6
!
8
!
3
!
4
!
5
!
7
!
1
·|}þ
 92 
El Camino Real
£
¤
101
N Norfolk St
S Idaho St
Alameda De Las Pulgas
N Humbolt St
E Poplar Ave
3rd Ave
Ala
me
da
 D
e L
as P
ulgas
Fa
s
h
ion
 Isl
an
d Blv
d
W H
ill
s
da
le
 B
lv
d
Par
ro
t D
r
B
a
y
ri
dg
e
 
Way
Lex
in
g
to
n 
A
v
e
New B
Ascension Dr
Burlingame
San Mateo
Hayward Park
Hillsdale
(Future)
Belmont
Alternative B: Prioritizing Regional Connections
This alternative aims to increase and improve transit 
access to and from major connections in San Mateo by 
adding transit connections from Study Areas 3, 6, and 
10 to the Hillsdale Caltrain station, prioritizing dedicated 
HOV and bus lanes, and adding BRT improvements to 
El Camino Real. All the alternatives assume pedestrian 
and bicycle improvements consistent with existing City 
planning documents.
0
Scale (Miles)
.5
Alternative B: Circulation
Crossing Improvements
!
Current Caltrain At-Grade Crossings
!
Proposed Pedestrian Crossing 
Improvements
!
Proposed Peninsula Interchange 
Project 
Line Improvements
Sphere of Inﬂuence
Study Area
2012 Proposed Pedestrian Priority Network
Transit Improvements
El Camino Real BRT Improvements
ExisƟng Bikeways
ExisƟng Shared Bike and Ped Path
Missing Sidewalks
Proposed Bikeways
Proposed Shared Bike and Ped Path
I2
Caltrain StaƟon
ExisƟng Pedestrian Mall 
(Street Closure)
 Map Legend
Source data: 
City of San Mateo, 2019; 
San Mateo County, 2018; Esri, 
2019; PlaceWorks, 2019; 
Nelson Nygaard, 2020.
145 of 509

--- page 146 ---
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
I2
I2
I2
I2
I2
HILLSBOROUGH
FOSTER CITY
BELMONT
BURLINGAME
PENINSULA GOLF
AND COUNTRY
CLUB (UNINC)
Monte Diablo Ave
Alameda De Las Pulgas
Ke
hoe Ave
41st Ave
28th Ave
p
h
l
e
tt
Blvd
S N
orfol
k St
W
39th Ave
Tilton Ave
El Ca
mino Real
W
Hill
s
da
le
Bl
vd
E
28t
h
Ave
E
d
inburgh
St
W
P
o
p
l
a
r
A
ve
16th Ave
S Delaware St
W
o
o
d
b
r
i
dge
C
ir
N E
l Camino Real
Sarato
ga
D
r
Palm Av
e
S B St
P
a
r
kwood
C
l
ark
D
r
30th
Av
e
31st
Ave
Monterey St
S
Gr
a
nt
St
Birch St
Los
P
r
a
d
o
s
Yew
St
E Poplar Ave
Lodi
Av
e
Branson Dr
h
Blv
d
N
San Mateo Dr
S Amphlett Blvd
Sh
oal
Dr
Polhe
mus
Rd
Mariners Island Blvd
Q
u
ee
ns Ln
J Hart Clinton Dr
C
a
m
p
u
s Dr
V
a
n
Buren St
Hacienda St
2n
d
Ave
W
3
r
d
A
v
e
C
re
s
c
e
n
t
A
v
e
E 3rd Ave
D
e
Anza Blv
d
B
o
r
el
A
v
e
Sunnybrae Blvd
Eisenhower St
La Selva St
N Humboldt St
43rd Ave
H
ar
va
rd
R
d
Dolores St
Cli
p
p
e
r
St
Laurel Ave
Fa
t
h
o
m
Dr
W
20th
Ave
Norton St
Dale
Ave
Oregon Ave
Flores St
7th Ave
S Claremont St
Bucknell
D
r
Maple St
San Miguel
Way
E 39th Ave
Virginia
A
v
e
Casanova Dr
E
40th Ave
E
dg
e
w
o
o
d
R
d
L
i
v
e
O
a
k
Dr
Newbridge A
v
e
37
th
A
v
e
23rd A
ve
York Ave
C
l
e
arview W
ay
S Fremont St
Baldw
i
n Ave
W
5
th
Ave
Is
abelle
Ave
Fer
n
w
o
o
d
St
N Idaho St
Donner St
27th Ave
W 38th Ave
Edison St
Pacific
Bl
v
d
P
a
l
o
s
V
erd
es
Dr
Kim
b
er
ly
W
a
y
Huron
A
v
e
Peninsula Ave
W
ol
fe
Dr
R
o
be
rt
a
Dr
S Quebec St
1st
A
v
e
N
Ellsworth Ave
Annapolis Dr
Kent St
Hamlet St
Ottawa St
E
n
s
e
n
a
d
a Ave
Sho
r
e
vi
e
w
Ave
N Kingston St
17th Ave
Fo
o
t
h
i
l
l
D
r
Mason Ln
R
o
y
al
A
v
e
E
c
h
o
Ave
O
cean View Ave
Laurie Meadows Dr
W
o
o
d
l
a
n
d
D
r
L
o
s
A
l
t
o
s
Dr
Nevada Ave
E Hill
s
d
al
e
Ct
S Humboldt St
S Eldorado St
E
Hillsdale Blvd
Glend
ora
D
r
Fairfax
A
ve
29th Ave
N Delaware St
Rolling Hills Ave
Occidental Ave
Woodberry Ave
N Claremont St
Hig
hl
a
n
d
Ave
W 40th Ave
Pico Ave
Sunset Ter
H
u
r
li
ng
h
am
Av
e
M
a
r
i
n
a
Ct
C
r
est
wo
o
d
Dr
Avila Rd
Col
u
m
bi
a
Dr
V
i
lla
Ter
11th Ave
13th Ave
15th Ave
S Bays
hore Blvd
S Railroad A
v
e
Ram
on
a St
N Fremont St
N Grant St
Cobb St
Laurelwood Dr
Shafter St
Castilian Way
Meadow View Pl
Oak St
19th
Ave
W 25th Ave
Geor
g
e
t
o
w
n
Ave
Poinsettia
Ave
Madison Ave
N Rochester St
Verdun
A
v
e
Oneill Dr
Alhambra Rd
Guildford Ave
Fallon Ave
Bri
d
ge
po
in
te Pkwy
Fa
irmont Dr
V
i
e
w
r
i
d
g
e
Dr
C
o
untrysid
e Dr
Ch
e
r
ry
wood
Dr
S Norfolk St
S Delaware St
W    
Hil
lsd
ale
 Bl
vd
San 
Fra
nci
sco
 Ba
y
£
¤
101
£
¤
101
·|}þ
 92 
·|}þ
 82 
·|}þ
 82 
!
10
!
2
!
9
!
6
!
8
!
3
!
4
!
5
!
7
!
1
·|}þ
 92 
El Camino Real
£
¤
101
N Norfolk St
S Idaho St
Alameda De Las Pulgas
N Humbolt St
E Poplar Ave
3rd Ave
Ala
me
da
 D
e L
as P
ulgas
Fa
s
h
ion
 Isl
an
d Blv
d
W H
ill
s
da
le
 B
lv
d
Par
ro
t D
r
B
a
y
ri
dg
e
 
Way
Lex
in
g
to
n 
A
v
e
New B
Ascension Dr
Burlingame
San Mateo
Hayward Park
Hillsdale
(Future)
Belmont
Alternative C: Supporting Walking,  
Regional Connections and Emerging Mobility Solutions
This alternative combines the local and regional 
transportation improvements of Alternatives A and B, 
while using inventive urban design downtown, inspired 
by Barcelona’s “superblocks” that allow vehicle access, 
while diverting cut-through vehicles to create a pedestrian-
focused, car-light space downtown. In addition, this 
alternative would explore an automated micromobility 
circulator (such as an AV shuttle) within City limits. All the 
alternatives assume pedestrian and bicycle improvements 
consistent with existing City planning documents.
0
Scale (Miles)
.5
Alternative C: Circulation
Crossing Improvements
!
Current Caltrain At-Grade Crossings
!
Proposed Pedestrian Crossing 
Improvements
!
Proposed Peninsula Interchange 
Project 
Line Improvements
Sphere of Inﬂuence
Study Area
2012 Proposed Pedestrian Priority Network
Transit Improvements
ExisƟng Pedestrian Mall 
(Street Closure)
El Camino Real Bikeway, Public Realm & BRT Improvements
ExisƟng Bikeways
ExisƟng Shared Bike and Ped Path
Pedestrian Improvements, Diverted Traﬃc
Proposed Bikeways
Proposed Shared Bike and Ped Path
Missing Sidewalks
I2
Caltrain StaƟon
 Map Legend
Source data: 
City of San Mateo, 2019; 
San Mateo County, 2018; Esri, 
2019; PlaceWorks, 2019; 
Nelson Nygaard, 2020.
146 of 509

--- page 147 ---
Land Use and 
Circulation Alternatives Evaluation
for the City of San Mateo | January 14, 2022 – Public Review Draft
147 of 509

--- page 148 ---
148 of 509

--- page 149 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
i 
 
Table of Contents 
 
1. 
Introduction ........................................................ 1 
1.1 
REPORT ORGANIZATION .............................................. 1 
1.2 
WHAT IS A GENERAL PLAN? ......................................... 2 
1.3 
ALTERNATIVES PROCESS ............................................... 2 
1.4 
COVID-19 PANDEMIC  .................................................. 5 
1.5 
SENATE BILL 9 .............................................................. 5 
2. 
Description of Alternatives .................................. 6 
2.1 
LAND USE ALTERNATIVES ............................................. 6 
2.2 
CIRCULATION ALTERNATIVES ..................................... 34 
3. 
Summary of Key Findings ................................. 38 
3.1 
KEY FINDINGS............................................................. 38 
3.2 
BUILDING YOUR PREFERRED SCENARIO .................... 46 
4. 
Project Context ................................................. 52 
4.1 
GENERAL PLAN VISION AND VALUES ......................... 52 
4.2 
PIPELINE PROJECTS .................................................... 52 
4.3 
AREA PLANS, MASTER PLANS, AND SPECIFIC PLANS.. 53 
4.4 
THE HOUSING ELEMENT ............................................ 54 
4.5 
OTHER CITYWIDE REGULATIONS AND PROJECTS ....... 58 
4.6 
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW REQUIREMENTS .................. 59 
5. 
Alternatives Evaluation ...................................... 60 
5.1 
URBAN FORM ............................................................. 60 
5.2 
TRAFFIC AND MULTIMODAL CIRCULATION ................ 67 
5.3 
COMMUNITY SERVICES .............................................. 75 
5.4 
UTILITIES .................................................................... 84 
5.5 
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY ............................ 91 
5.6 
EQUITY AND PUBLIC HEALTH ..................................... 96 
5.7 
FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY ............................................ 110 
5.8 
MARKET FEASIBILITY ................................................ 113 
5.9 
COMMUNITY BENEFITS ............................................ 116 
6. 
Next Steps ...................................................... 119 
 
Tables 
TABLE 1 
PROJECTED BUILDOUT CITYWIDE ................................ 6 
TABLE 2 
PROJECTED BUILDOUT BY STUDY AREA ..................... 17 
TABLE 3 
STUDY AREA DESCRIPTIONS  ...................................... 19 
TABLE 4 
LAND USE ALTERNATIVES ANALYSIS SUMMARY  
MATRIX ....................................................................... 40 
TABLE 5 
SUMMARY OF MULTIMODAL ANALYSIS OF 
CIRCULATION ALTERNATIVES ..................................... 45 
TABLE 6 
APPROVED PROJECTS BY STUDY AREA ....................... 53 
TABLE 7 
JOBS TO EMPLOYED RESIDENTS RATIO ...................... 63 
TABLE 8 
PEDESTRIAN NETWORK EVALUATION ........................ 69 
TABLE 9 
BICYCLE NETWORK EVALUATION ............................... 70 
TABLE 10 
TRANSIT NETWORK EVALUATION ............................... 71 
TABLE 11 
2040 RESIDENTIAL VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED (VMT) –  
VMT PER CAPITA ........................................................ 72 
149 of 509

--- page 150 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
ii 
TABLE 12 
2040 EMPLOYMENT VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED (VMT) 
– VMT PER JOB ........................................................... 73 
TABLE 13 
2040 VEHICLE HOURS TRAVELED (VHT) ..................... 73 
TABLE 14 
2040 AVERAGE SPEEDS .............................................. 74 
TABLE 15 
2040 VEHICLE HOURS OF DELAY (VHD) ..................... 74 
TABLE 16 
2021-2022 ENROLLMENT AND CAPACITY FOR 
SCHOOLS IN SAN MATEO ........................................... 77 
TABLE 17 
NEW STUDENTS UNDER EACH ALTERNATIVE  ............ 79 
TABLE 18 
PROJECTED POPULATION COMPARISON  
(2020 CAL WATER UWMP VS. ALTERNATIVES) ........... 85 
TABLE 19 
WATER USAGE – CAL WATER - NORMAL YEAR 
PROJECTED DEMAND & SUPPLY ................................. 85 
TABLE 20 
WATER USAGE – CAL WATER - DRY YEAR PROJECTED 
DEMAND & SUPPLY .................................................... 86 
TABLE 21 
PROJECTED POPULATION COMPARISON  
(2020 EMID UWMP VS. ALTERNATIVES (AREA 10)) .... 87 
TABLE 22 
WATER USAGE – EMID - PROJECTED DEMAND 
COMPARISON  ........................................................... 87 
TABLE 23 
SEWER CAPACITY – JOINT POWERS AGREEMENT ...... 88 
TABLE 24 
SEWER USAGE - PROJECTED DEMAND BASED ON USE 
COEFFICIENTS  ........................................................... 88 
TABLE 25 
SEWER USAGE – PROJECTED EFFLUENT FLOWS - ....... 89 
TABLE 26 
URBAN DISPLACEMENT TYPOLOGIES ......................... 98 
TABLE 27 
INCLUSIONARY UNITS UNDER EACH ALTERNATIVE .. 101 
TABLE 28 
FISCAL IMPACT SUMMARY OF GENERAL PLAN 
ALTERNATIVES  ......................................................... 111 
TABLE 29 
NEAR-TERM DEVELOPMENT FEASIBILITY ................. 113 
 
Figures 
FIGURE 1. 
STUDY AREA BOUNDARIES ........................................... 4 
FIGURE 2. 
LAND USE ALTERNATIVE A ............................................ 7 
FIGURE 3. 
LAND USE ALTERNATIVE B ............................................ 8 
FIGURE 4. 
LAND USE ALTERNATIVE C ............................................ 9 
FIGURE 5. 
PLACE TYPE MENU ..................................................... 10 
FIGURE 6. 
STUDY AREA 1-NORTH ............................................... 22 
FIGURE 7. 
STUDY AREA 1-CENTRAL ............................................ 23 
FIGURE 8. 
STUDY AREA 1-SOUTH ............................................... 24 
FIGURE 9. 
STUDY AREA 2  ........................................................... 25 
FIGURE 10. 
STUDY AREA 3  ........................................................... 26 
FIGURE 11. 
STUDY AREA 4  ........................................................... 27 
FIGURE 12. 
STUDY AREA 5  ........................................................... 28 
FIGURE 13. 
STUDY AREA 6  ........................................................... 29 
FIGURE 14. 
STUDY AREA 7  ........................................................... 30 
FIGURE 15. 
STUDY AREA 8  ........................................................... 31 
FIGURE 16. 
STUDY AREA 9  ........................................................... 32 
FIGURE 17. 
STUDY AREA 10 .......................................................... 33 
FIGURE 18. 
CIRCULATION ALTERNATIVE A: PRIORITIZING A 
WALKABLE CITY .......................................................... 35 
FIGURE 19. 
CIRCULATION ALTERNATIVE B: PRIORITIZING 
REGIONAL CONNECTIONS .......................................... 36 
FIGURE 20. 
CIRCULATION ALTERNATIVE C: SUPPORTING WALKING, 
REGIONAL CONNECTIONS AND EMERGING  
MOBILITY SOLUTIONS ................................................ 37 
FIGURE 21. 
WHERE PEOPLE LIVE VS. WORK ................................. 63 
FIGURE 22. 
HISTORIC RESOURCES ................................................ 65 
FIGURE 23. 
SCHOOLS .................................................................... 78 
 
 
150 of 509

--- page 151 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
iii 
FIGURE 24. 
PARKS AND PARK WALKABILITY  ................................. 81 
FIGURE 25. 
COMBINED HAZARDS ................................................. 93 
FIGURE 26. 
GENTRIFICATION AND DISPLACEMENT  
TYPOLOGIES IN SAN MATEO ...................................... 99 
FIGURE 27. 
BICYCLE COLLISIONS ................................................ 103 
FIGURE 28. 
PEDESTRIAN COLLISIONS ......................................... 104 
FIGURE 29. 
CALENVIROSCREEN COMBINED SCORES.................. 106 
FIGURE 30. 
TRAFFIC DENSITY AND POLLUTANT EXPOSURE........ 107 
FIGURE 31. 
GROUNDWATER THREATS ........................................ 109 
 
 
 
151 of 509

--- page 152 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
iv 
 
This page intentionally left blank. 
 
 
152 of 509

--- page 153 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
1 
 
1. Introduction 
San Mateo is undertaking a major public planning effort, called Strive 
San Mateo General Plan 2040, to help guide how the City will look, feel, 
and change over the next 20 years. As part of the General Plan visioning 
process, the community expressed that San Mateo should be: “a 
vibrant, livable, diverse, and healthy community that respects the quality 
of its neighborhoods, fosters a flourishing economy, is committed to 
equity, and is a leader in environmental sustainability.”  
To achieve the General Plan vision, the City has analyzed three land use 
and transportation alternatives for 10 Study Areas throughout San 
Mateo that were developed through an extensive public process. Each 
land use alternative shows a vision for the different types and ranges of 
development that should occur in each Study Area over the next 20 
years. The circulation alternatives guide how people could travel 
throughout San Mateo using bicycles, cars, transit, or by walking.  
This Alternatives Workbook is intended to help you understand the 
implications of the three different approaches to land use and 
transportation planning represented by each of the alternatives, 
including both positive and negative impacts, so that you can 
participate in developing a Preferred Scenario that will be a combination 
of the individual preferred scenarios for each Study Area in the City.   
 
1.1 
REPORT ORGANIZATION 
This Alternatives Workbook will give readers the information necessary 
to provide meaningful input into choosing the Preferred Scenario for 
each Study Area that best reflects how they wish San Mateo to grow 
and change over the next 20 years. The workbook evaluates the land 
use and transportation alternatives for each Study Area on a wide variety 
of criteria, which are intended to help community members and 
decision-makers understand the impacts and benefits of each 
alternative.  
This Alternatives Workbook is organized into the following chapters: 
1. The Introduction chapter describes the organization of the 
workbook, purpose of the General Plan, and outlines the alternatives 
process. 
2. The Description of Alternatives chapter explains the place type 
menu that was used for each alternative, provides the projected 
buildout for the City, presents the proposed land use alternative 
maps by Study Area, and shows the circulation alternatives.  
3. The Summary of Key Findings chapter provides a very high-level 
snapshot of the key findings for each alternative, based on the more 
detailed evaluation in Chapter 5, and provides information on how 
to build your Preferred Scenario.   
4. The Project Context chapter lists the vision and values of the General 
Plan, provides a table of projects that are approved or in the 
development review process in all Study Areas, describes the 
relationship of the General Plan to the Housing Element and 
Measure Y, cites other Citywide plans and regulations in San Mateo 
that will affect future development.  
5. The Alternatives Evaluation chapter provides a detailed comparison 
of each alternative for selected topics, including urban form, traffic 
and 
multimodal 
circulation, 
utilities, 
community 
services, 
environmental sustainability, equity and public health, city fiscal 
sustainability, and market viability.  
153 of 509

--- page 154 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
2 
6. The Next Steps section details the process to select the preferred 
scenario and upcoming General Plan tasks. 
7. The Appendices includes a detailed description of the buildout 
methodology used for the alternatives evaluation. 
1.2 
WHAT IS A GENERAL PLAN? 
San Mateo is updating its General Plan, which is the plan that expresses 
the community’s vision for how the City will look, feel, and change over 
the next 20 years. Every City in California is required to have a General 
Plan that covers the entire city. State law says that General Plans must 
address many different topics that affect our daily lives, such as 
housing, transportation, natural resources, public safety, and equity. 
– 
Where housing, businesses, industry, open space, schools, 
civic buildings, and other land uses will be located, and what 
density or intensity of use is allowed. 
– 
Where roads, truck routes, bicycle routes, walking trails, and 
public utilities and facilities will go, and ensures that the City’s 
infrastructure can serve the future development that is allowed 
in the General Plan. 
– 
Current and future housing needs for people at all income levels, 
and housing policies and programs to preserve affordable 
housing and build new affordable and market-rate housing to 
meet those needs. 
– 
How to protect our natural resources, such as water, air, trees, 
and hillsides, and how to preserve and improve open spaces, 
including open space for recreation, for habitat, or for public 
health and safety. 
– 
Ways to protect residents from harmful or disruptive levels of 
noise, and to keep the community safe from natural and human-
caused hazards, such as earthquakes, landslides, floods, and 
wildfires, including increased risks from climate change. 
– 
Improving the safety and quality of life for residents of 
neighborhoods that face a combination of both higher-than-
average pollution exposure and social and economic 
challenges such as low incomes, language barriers, or housing 
instability. 
The General Plan will include policies that determine what can and 
cannot be built in the City, including new homes, new businesses, new 
parks, and improvements to our streets and sidewalks, and how this 
development will be served.  
1.3 
ALTERNATIVES PROCESS 
The alternatives presented in this workbook consider different locations 
and intensities of development that could occur over the next 20 years 
for each of the 10 Study Areas. They were created to test the pros, cons, 
and different possible outcomes of a range of possible futures for San 
Mateo.  
Here’s how the alternatives were created:  
1. Choose Study Areas. San Mateo community members provided 
input at workshops, meetings, and online to identify areas of the City 
that have the greatest potential to experience and to accommodate 
land use changes over the next 20 years. Study Areas include areas 
near transit; areas where current buildings are aging, vacant, or not 
maintained; or areas where property owners have expressed 
interest in considering redevelopment of the property. Ten Study 
Areas were identified as part of this process, as shown in Figure 1, 
Study Area Boundaries. The ten Study Areas are the locations where 
the most growth is projected to occur; however, changes could still 
occur outside of these areas. The General Plan will allow for 
continued growth outside of the Study Areas based on existing 
densities, regulations, and state law.  
154 of 509

--- page 155 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
3 
2. Create a Range of Alternatives for each Study Area. Three draft land 
use and circulation alternatives were created for each Study Area to 
consider different locations and intensities of development that 
could occur over the next 20 years. The range of three alternatives 
was vetted through a process of community meetings and input 
from the General Plan Subcommittee, Planning Commission, and 
City Council.  
3. Evaluate and Compare Alternatives. This report evaluates and 
compares the alternatives to help facilitate selecting a Preferred 
Scenario.  
4. Choose a Preferred Scenario for Further Study. Using this 
alternatives evaluation as a tool, the City will solicit community input 
on their preferences for the city’s future growth and development. 
The Preferred Scenario will be developed through a robust public 
engagement process. The Preferred Scenario will be created by 
mixing and matching various features of each alternative. The City 
Council will provide final direction on the Preferred Scenario.  
5. Refine the Preferred Scenario. The Preferred Scenario will become 
the basis for the land use and circulation maps in the Draft General 
Plan and will undergo extensive additional analysis in the Draft 
Environmental Impact Report. The Environmental Impact Report, or 
EIR, is required under the California Environmental Quality Act 
(CEQA) to identify and mitigate any potential environmental effects 
of adopting the updated General Plan. In addition to growth within 
the Study Areas, the General Plan will anticipate and allow for 
continued growth outside of the Study Areas based on existing 
regulations. 
6. Continued Participation. After the Preferred Scenario is selected, the 
public will continue to play an important role. The City will ask the 
community for input on the Draft General Plan and the Draft 
Environmental Impact Report. Public participation at these key steps 
is vital to shaping a plan that represents the values and vision of the 
community. 
 
155 of 509

--- page 156 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
4 
Figure 1. 
Study Area Boundaries 
 
156 of 509

--- page 157 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
5 
1.4 
COVID-19 PANDEMIC  
City staff and the General Plan consultant team, including economists 
from Economic & Planning Systems (EPS), reexamined the land use 
alternatives in early 2021 to consider whether changes are needed to 
reflect effects of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The team concluded 
that, by the year 2040, the effects of the current pandemic will not be 
discernable from other social and economic changes. Current 
economic predictions are that residential demand will continue to 
increase even though some parts of the Bay Area may be experiencing 
a temporary dip in the rental market.  
Although the COVID-19 pandemic could result in a longer-term trend of 
more people working from home, there will continue to be a strong office 
market demand as employers see value in face-to-face work. In 
addition, other types of work, such as research and development in a 
lab environment, cannot feasibly happen from home. The decline of 
traditional “brick and mortar” retail is likely to be accelerated by online 
shopping habits built during the pandemic, but retail is not a significant 
proportion of the jobs or development foreseen in the land use 
alternatives. The pandemic also impacted the hospitality industry, 
especially hotels, during 2020, although demand has recovered over 
2021 and is expected to continue to increase towards pre-pandemic 
levels over the next few years.  
Overall, the range of possible futures contemplated in the draft land use 
alternatives remain a valid and feasible range of outcomes to analyze 
for housing and work over the next 20 years, taking COVID-19 into 
account. 
1.5 
SENATE BILL 9 
In addition to growth within the Study Areas under an updated General 
Plan land use map, the General Plan will anticipate and allow for 
continued growth outside of the Study Areas based on existing 
regulations. Those regulations include both local and State laws.  
On September 16, 2021, the State passed Senate Bill 9 (SB 9), intended 
to help address California’s housing shortage. SB 9 allows homeowners 
in single-family residential zones to subdivide parcels of 2,400 square 
feet or more into two parcels and/or build a duplex on each parcel 
without a discretionary review process or a public hearing. This new law, 
which went into effect on January 1, 2022, will make it easier for 
homeowners to build up to four units on properties with a single-family 
residential zoning designation. Areas that are within very high fire hazard 
zones, historic districts, or affected by other environmental constraints 
are limited in their ability to subdivide or add units.   
The alternatives presented in this workbook do not propose a change 
to properties zoned R-1 (One-Family Residential) within the city, whether 
or not they are in a Study Area. However, under SB 9, single-family 
zoned properties could still accommodate future growth by building a 
duplex and/or or by splitting the lot into two separate lots that would 
allow two units each.  
 
 
157 of 509

--- page 158 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
6 
 
 
2. Description of Alternatives 
2.1 
LAND USE ALTERNATIVES 
The draft land use alternatives are shown on Figures 2 through 4 and 
are generally described as follows: 
– 
Alternative A generally has the least change in designations 
and the lowest residential growth.  
– 
Alternative B has the second-highest residential growth and 
spreads growth and midrange heights more evenly across all 
ten Study Areas. Outlying Study Areas like 6 and 2 become mini-
villages that incorporate a mix of offices, homes, shopping, 
dining, and services within the study area.  
– 
Alternative C has the highest residential growth and 
concentrates growth, change, tallest heights, and density near 
transit in Study Areas 3 and 4. 
LAND USE PLACE TYPES 
Figure 5 presents the land use categories that were used in the creation 
of the alternatives. The Place Types Menu presents simplified land use 
categories to streamline the amount of information presented in a more 
accessible format. Once the Council decides upon the preferred land 
use scenario, the General Plan team will revisit these land use 
categories to add additional detail about the allowed uses.  
The Place Types Menu describes the density range permitted by each 
land use designation and the type of use that would be permitted based 
on the land use category. Most land use categories in the alternatives 
are similar to the existing General Plan land use designations, however 
there are a few differences. The biggest change is that Residential High 
and Mixed-Use High categories permit greater heights and densities 
than currently allowed under the voter approved initiative Measure Y. 
The current General Plan 2030 designation of Residential High most 
closely matches the Residential Medium category used for these 
alternatives. 
The photographs in Figure 5 are not intended to represent 
recommended architectural design styles, only their general scale and 
character. 
PROJECTED BUILDOUT 
Table 1 shows the existing number of homes, population, and jobs in 
San Mateo as of 2018 and for each alternative. As shown in the table, 
the alternatives are exploring 11,810, 16,070, and 21,080 new residential 
units. By comparison, in 2019, which is used as the baseline 
comparison year for this evaluation, San Mateo had just over 39,000 
homes.  
Although the City is largely “built out,” California law requires cities to 
plan for housing to accommodate a range of households and income 
levels. While the above projections are estimates, the City of San Mateo 
can reasonably assume we will continue to grow, and that we will need 
to zone for that growth in order to meet our legal obligations to the State. 
The General Plan Update provides an opportunity to set the foundation 
for future growth that is logical, orderly, and achieves the community’s 
vision of San Mateo as a place that is “vibrant, livable, diverse, and 
healthy.” 
Table 1 
Projected Buildout Citywide 
 
Existing 
(2019) 
Alternative A  
(Net New) 
Alternative B 
(Net New) 
Alternative C 
(Net New) 
Homes 
39,200 
+11,810 
+16,070 
+21,080 
Population 
104,500 
+29,500 
+40,260 
+53,500 
Jobs 
52,800 
+15,430 
+15,430 
+14,990 
Source: PlaceWorks, 2021. Numbers are rounded to the nearest 10.  
158 of 509

--- page 159 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
7 
Figure 2. 
Land Use Alternative A 
 
 
159 of 509

--- page 160 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
8 
Figure 3. 
Land Use Alternative B 
 
 
160 of 509

--- page 161 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
9 
Figure 4. 
Land Use Alternative C 
 
 
161 of 509

--- page 162 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
10 
Figure 5. 
Place Type Menu 
REF 
CATEGORY 
PHOTO/ILLUSTRATION 
RESIDENTIAL 
 
Single Family 
• 
1-2 story, detached homes including “in law” units (also 
known as ADU’s) 
• 
Up to 9 units per acre 
 
 
 
Residential Low 
• 
1-3 story, attached homes including townhomes, duplexes, 
triplexes, and fourplexes 
• 
9 to 39 units per acre 
 
 
 
Residential Medium 
• 
4-7 story buildings including condominiums and 
apartments  
• 
40 to 99 units per acre 
 
 
162 of 509

--- page 163 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
11 
REF 
CATEGORY 
PHOTO/ILLUSTRATION 
 
Residential High 
• 
8+ story buildings including multi-story condominiums and 
apartments. 
• 
100 to 200 units per acre 
 
 
MIXED USE 
 
Mixed-Use Low 
• 
1-3 story buildings with a mix of commercial, office, and/or 
residential integrated within the same site or the same 
building. 
• 
9 to 39 units per acre 
• 
0.25 FAR retail 
• 
1.0 FAR office 
 
 
 
Mixed-Use Medium 
• 
4-7 story buildings with a mix of commercial, office, and/or 
residential integrated within the same site or the same 
building. 
• 
40 to 99 units per acre 
• 
0.25 FAR retail 
• 
3.0 FAR office 
 
 
 
Mixed-Use High 
• 
8+ story buildings with a mix of commercial, office, and/or 
residential integrated within the same site or the same 
building. 
• 
100 to 200 units per acre 
• 
0.25 FAR retail 
• 
5.0 FAR office 
 
 
163 of 509

--- page 164 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
12 
REF 
CATEGORY 
PHOTO/ILLUSTRATION 
COMMERCIAL 
 
Commercial Neighborhood 
• 
1-2 story buildings with small shops, restaurants, salons, 
gyms, or shopping centers that serve the immediate 
neighborhood. 
• 
1.0 FAR 
 
 
 
Commercial Service 
• 
1-3 story buildings with businesses such as automotive 
repair, pet hospitals, or self-storage. 
• 
1.0 FAR 
 
 
 
Commercial Regional  
• 
3+ story buildings with large shopping centers such as 
Hillsdale Mall and Bridgepointe Shopping Center. 
• 
1.0 to 2.5 FAR 
 
 
164 of 509

--- page 165 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
13 
REF 
CATEGORY 
PHOTO/ILLUSTRATION 
OFFICE 
 
Office Low 
• 
1-3 story buildings with medical or professional offices. 
• 
1.0 FAR 
 
 
 
Office Medium 
• 
4-7 story buildings with medical or professional offices. 
• 
3.0 FAR 
 
 
 
Office High 
• 
8+ story buildings with medical or professional offices. 
• 
5.0 FAR 
 
 
165 of 509

--- page 166 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
14 
REF 
CATEGORY 
PHOTO/ILLUSTRATION 
INDUSTRIAL 
 
Traditional Light Industrial  
– 
1-2 story buildings with light manufacturing, warehousing, 
and distribution facilities. 
– 
1.0 FAR  
 
 
 
Research and Development  
– 
3+ story buildings with professional office uses and 
manufacturing, laboratories, makers’ spaces, and assembly 
processes to support the development of new products. 
– 
1.0 to 2.0 FAR  
 
 
166 of 509

--- page 167 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
15 
REF 
CATEGORY 
PHOTO/ILLUSTRATION 
PARKS AND OPEN SPACE 
 
Parklet – small park or gathering space. 
 
 
 
Community Park – a larger park of 1 to several acres that 
includes recreational or community amenities. 
 
 
 
Privately-Owned Public Open Space - publicly accessible but 
privately maintained plazas and courtyards integrated within 
private development. 
 
 
 
Civic Gathering Space – a plaza, amphitheater, or town 
square that can accommodate community events. 
 
 
167 of 509

--- page 168 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
16 
REF 
CATEGORY 
PHOTO/ILLUSTRATION 
MULTI-MODAL CIRCULATION IMPROVEMENTS 
Pedestrian Supportive Improvements – such as sidewalks, pedestrian 
cut-throughs, pedestrian bridges, bulb-outs/curb extensions, street 
lighting, and street trees. 
 
 
Bicycle Supportive Improvements – such as sharrows, bike lanes, 
separated bike paths, bike bridges, signage, bike racks, bike repair 
stations, etc. Community members have already provided input 
during the Bicycle Master Plan update process, refer to the Proposed 
Bicycle Network map. 
 
 
Transit Supportive Improvements – the City can partner with transit 
providers such as Caltrain and SamTrans on transit stop 
improvements such as covered bus shelters, lighting, benches, 
signage, bicycle storage lockers, pedestrian underpass, dedicated 
areas for buses, dedicated areas for drop-off/pick-up, commuter 
parking, etc.  
 
 
Circulation and Safety Improvements – improvements that address 
circulation on multiple levels such as grade separations, directional 
signage, dedicated areas for bike share facilities, etc.  
 
 
168 of 509

--- page 169 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
17 
REF 
CATEGORY 
PHOTO/ILLUSTRATION 
Emerging Transportation Technologies – This includes scooter- and 
bike-share, autonomous vehicles, shared use vehicles, etc. 
 
 
The land use alternatives explore a range of residential growth within 
10 Study Areas. The projected total number of homes, population, and 
jobs for each Study Area are shown in Table 2. Study Area 3 would 
result in the highest number of new homes and population for all 
alternatives, primarily due to its location since many of the sites within 
this Study Area are located a half-mile from a transit service. For 
Alternative A and B, Study Area 5 would result in the lowest number of 
new homes and population, while Study Area 9 would result in the 
lowest number of homes and population under Alternative C. All 
alternatives keep job growth constant despite varying residential 
growth, with the assumption that the City would not implement policies 
to either significantly stimulate, nor significantly dampen, job growth. 
Although this alternatives evaluation makes an assumption about the 
amount of change that could occur within each Study Area, it is 
ultimately up to property owners to decide whether or when to redevelop 
their properties. 
 
Table 2 
Projected Buildout by Study Area 
 
 
Existing 
(2019) 
Alternative A  
(Net New) 
Alternative 
B (Net 
New) 
Alternative 
C (Net 
New) 
1 
Homes 
830 
+290 
+1,370 
+920 
Population 
1,720 
+751 
+3,548 
+2,383 
Jobs 
1,010 
+1,220 
+320 
+880 
2 
Homes 
290 
+500 
+700 
+600 
Population 
590 
+1,295 
+1,813 
+1,554 
Jobs 
700 
-70 
-200 
-100 
3 
Homes 
2,090 
+5,000 
+5,160 
+7,210 
Population 
4,860 
+12,950 
+13,364 
+18,674 
Jobs 
13,440 
+2,010 
+2,460 
+3,200 
4 
Homes 
3,560 
+1,000 
+2,000 
+5,150 
Population 
4,780 
+2,590 
+5,180 
+13,339 
Jobs 
8,440 
+820 
+370 
+1,530 
169 of 509

--- page 170 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
18 
 
 
Existing 
(2019) 
Alternative A  
(Net New) 
Alternative 
B (Net 
New) 
Alternative 
C (Net 
New) 
5 
Homes 
1,130 
+90 
+200 
+300 
Population 
2,550 
+233 
+518 
+777 
Jobs 
850 
+40 
+90 
+40 
6 
Homes 
130 
+320 
+500 
+700 
Population 
250 
+829 
+1,295 
+1,813 
Jobs 
610 
+880 
+1,240 
0 
7 
Homes 
610 
+100 
+390 
+1,140 
Population 
2,030 
+259 
+1,010 
+2,953 
Jobs 
1,410 
-190 
-270 
-230 
8 
Homes 
20 
+1,200 
+2,000 
+1,710 
Population 
60 
+3,108 
+5,180 
+4,429 
Jobs 
5,300 
+3,250 
+2,330 
+2,310 
9 
Homes 
170 
+160 
+350 
+200 
Population 
470 
+414 
+907 
+518 
Jobs 
740 
+600 
+590 
+520 
10 
Homes 
440 
+1,900 
+1,900 
+1,900 
Population 
890 
+4,921 
+4,921 
+4,921 
Jobs 
7,210 
+6,870 
+8,500 
+6,840 
 
LAND USE ALTERNATIVE MAPS BY STUDY AREA 
The draft land use alternatives anticipate that housing and job growth 
would mainly occur within the 10 Study Areas, as explained previously. 
However, growth is still anticipated throughout the City, including the 
single-family zoned properties, which will be able to accommodate 
future growth under SB 9 by building a duplex or splitting a lot, or by 
adding an Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) (aka granny flat or in-law unit) 
or Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit (JADU).  
Table 3 describes changes specific to each of the Study Areas and 
Figures 6 through 17 show the draft land use alternatives by study area.  
170 of 509

--- page 171 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
19 
Table 3 
Study Area Descriptions  
Study Area 
Location 
Alternative A 
Alternative B 
Alternative C 
1 - El Camino 
Real NORTH 
Located on El Camino Real 
between Peninsula Ave and 
Baldwin Ave 
Includes various apartment 
buildings, the Sterling Court 
assisted living facility, and 
Saint Joseph Parish.    
Majority of parcels would be 
designated as Residential 
Medium. A few parcels would be 
Mixed-Use Medium 
Most net new residential units than 
Alt. C 
Majority of parcels would be 
designated as Residential 
Medium. Includes two 
Commercial Neighborhood 
parcels 
Most net new residential units 
Majority of parcels would be 
designated as Residential Medium. 
A few parcels would be Mixed-Use 
High 
Least net new residential units  
1 - El Camino 
Real 
CENTRAL 
Located on El Camino Real 
between Notre Dame Ave 
and Bovet Rd  
This Study Area includes 
various restaurants, Charles 
Schwab, and St. Matthew 
Catholic Church.  
Most properties along El Camino 
Real would be designated for 
mixed use at varying densities  
Would result in a decrease of 
residential units  
Would allow a mix of uses, 
including Mixed-Use Medium and 
Residential High 
Most net new residential units 
Most properties along El Camino 
Real would be designated as 
Mixed-Use Medium  
Most net new residential units than 
Alt. A 
1 - El Camino 
Real SOUTH 
Located on El Camino Real 
between 36th and 40th Ave 
This Study Area includes a 
variety of commercial 
buildings, such as AutoZone, 
Mancini’s Sleepworld, and 
Kelly-Moore Paints 
West side would be mostly 
Commercial Neighborhood 
Would result in the lowest 
decrease of residential units 
compared to Alt. C 
West side would be mostly Mixed-
Use Low 
Would result in the lowest 
decrease of residential units  
West side would be Mixed-Use Low 
and Commercial Neighborhood 
Would result in the most decrease 
of residential units 
2 - Bel Mateo/ 
Mollie Stone 
Area 
Located between 39th Ave 
and North Rd 
Includes the Bel Mateo Bowl 
and Mollie Stone Market  
Would designate the area 
primarily as residential and 
commercial 
Bel Mateo Bowl would be 
designated as Residential Low 
and Mollie Stone Market as 
Residential Medium  
Least net new residential units 
Would designate the area as 
primarily residential and mixed 
use  
Bel Mateo Bowl would be 
designated as Residential Low 
and Mollie Stone Market as 
Residential Medium  
Most net new residential units 
Would allows a mix of uses, 
including Mixed-Use Medium, 
Commercial Neighborhood, and 
Residential Low 
Bel Mateo Bowl would be 
designated as Residential Low and 
Mollie Stone Market as Mixed-Use 
Medium 
Most net new residential units than 
Alt. A 
171 of 509

--- page 172 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
20 
Study Area 
Location 
Alternative A 
Alternative B 
Alternative C 
3 - Rail 
Corridor Area 
Located between 16th Ave 
and 36th Ave  
This Study Area includes 
Hillsdale Caltrain stations and 
Hayward Park, events center, 
Bay Meadows, and Hillsdale 
shopping center 
Borel Square Shopping Center 
would be Mixed-Use Medium  
Hillsdale Shopping Center would 
be designated as Commercial 
Regional and Mixed-Use Medium 
Least net new residential units, 
population, and jobs 
Borel Square Shopping Center 
would be Residential Medium  
Hillsdale Shopping Center would 
be designated the same as Alt. A 
More net new residential units, 
population, and jobs than Alt. A 
Borel Square Shopping Center 
would be Mixed-Use 
Hillsdale Shopping Center would 
be designated as Mixed-Use 
Medium and Mixed-Use High 
Most net new residential units, 
population, and jobs than Alt. A 
and B 
4 – Downtown 
Located between Tilton Ave 
and 9th Ave 
This Study Area includes San 
Mateo Central Park, San 
Mateo Public library, and a 
variety of commercial and 
residential uses 
Would reflect the current General 
Plan and would be closest to the 
City’s Downtown Specific Plan 
Built Form Alternative 1, which did 
not make changes to allowed 
heights or FARs. 
Least net new residential units 
than Alt. B and C. Would allow 
more jobs than Alt. B 
Would designate most of the 
Downtown core as Mixed-Use 
Medium and would be closest to 
Downtown Specific Plan Built 
Form Alternative 2, which kept 
most heights the same but 
increased density and FAR.  
More net new residential units 
than Alt. A. Would result in less 
jobs compared to Alt. A and C  
Would designate most of the 
Downtown core as Mixed-Use High 
(except the Historic District) and 
would be closest to Downtown 
Specific Plan Built Form Alternative 
3, which increased heights near 
transit and lower heights in 
transition to residential areas. 
Most net new residential units and 
more jobs than Alt. A and B 
5 - Peninsula 
Ave. Area 
Located between Peninsula 
Ave and Tilton Ave  
Includes office and 
commercial uses along San 
Mateo Drive and Safeway on 
Peninsula Ave 
Would allow a mix of uses, 
including Residential Low, 
Residential Medium, Office High, 
and Commercial Neighborhood  
Would allow the same number of 
jobs as Alt. C 
Would designate most of the area 
as Residential Medium and 
Mixed-Use Medium   
Would allow the most net new 
jobs 
Would allow for the most net new 
housing, designating the parcels 
along San Mateo Drive that are 
closest to Downtown as Residential 
High or Mixed-Use High 
Would result in the most net new 
residential units 
6 - Campus 
Dr. Area 
Located along State Route 92 
Includes Laurelwood 
Shopping Center and office 
buildings on Campus Dr 
Would represent the least change 
to the existing office uses 
Would allow more jobs than Alt. C    
Would designate most of the area 
for residential and mixed use and 
maintain an office area 
Would allow the most net new 
jobs  
Would change the office uses 
along Campus Dr to residential and 
maintain the commercial 
designation at the Laurelwood 
Shopping Center 
Would result in the most net new 
residential units 
172 of 509

--- page 173 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
21 
Study Area 
Location 
Alternative A 
Alternative B 
Alternative C 
7 - North 
Shoreview and 
Shoreview 
Area 
Located along Bayshore 
Blvd, between Poplar Ave 
and south of Cary Ave 
This Study Area includes 
Market Fiesta and North 
Peninsula Veterinary hospital 
Would allow a mix of uses and 
designates most of the east side 
of Bayshore Boulevard as 
Commercial Service 
Least net new residential units 
than Alt. B and C 
Would allow a mix of uses, but a 
majority of the area would be 
reserved for Residential Medium 
and Residential High uses 
Would result in more net new 
residential units than Alt. A 
Would allow a mix of uses, 
including, Commercial Service, 
Residential Medium and 
Residential High uses 
Would result in the most net new 
residential units 
8 - Parkside 
Plaza Area 
Located near the State Route 
92 and Highway 101 
interchange 
This Study Area includes 
Parkside Plaza, San Mateo 
Marriott and the Crossroads 
office park  
San Mateo Marriott would be 
designated as Residential Low. 
Parkside Plaza would be Mixed-
Use Low. The fish market parcel 
would be designated as Mixed-
Use Medium 
Would allow the most net new 
jobs 
San Mateo Marriott would be 
designated as Residential 
Medium. Parkside Plaza would be 
Residential Medium. The fish 
market parcel would be 
designated as Mixed-Use 
Medium 
Would allow the most net new 
residential uses 
San Mateo Marriott would be 
designated as Residential Low. 
Parkside Plaza would be Mixed-
Use Medium. The fish market 
parcel would be designated as 
Mixed-Use Medium 
More net new residential units than 
Alt. A 
9 - Hillsdale/ 
Norfolk Area 
Located near the Highway 
101 and Hillsdale Blvd 
Interchange 
Includes Kaiser, Hillsdale Inn 
and Marina Plaza Shopping 
Center 
Would allow a mix of uses and 
maintain the commercial 
designation at the Marina Plaza 
Shopping Center 
Would allow the most net new 
jobs 
Would add the most net new 
residential units by 
accommodating most of the new 
residential units at the Marina 
Plaza Shopping Center which 
would have a Mixed-Use Medium 
designation 
Would allow a mix of uses and 
maintain the commercial 
designation at the Marina Plaza 
Shopping Center 
More net new residential units than 
Alt. A 
10 - 
Bridgepointe 
Located on Mariners Island 
Blvd  
This Study Area includes 
Bridgepoint Shopping Center 
and surrounding offices, 
commercial and residential 
buildings 
Would allow a mix of uses and 
would designate the Bridgepoint 
Shopping Center as Mixed Use 
High 
Would result in the same number 
of residential units as Alt B and C 
Would allow a mix of uses and 
would designate the Bridgepoint 
Shopping Center as Mixed Use 
High  
Would allow the most net new 
jobs 
Would allow a mix of uses and 
would designate the Bridgepoint 
Shopping Center as Mixed Use 
High 
Would result in the same number of 
residential units as Alt A and B 
Source: PlaceWorks, 2021 
 
 
173 of 509

--- page 174 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
22 
Figure 6. 
Study Area 1-North 
 
 
174 of 509

--- page 175 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
23 
Figure 7. 
Study Area 1-Central 
 
 
175 of 509

--- page 176 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
24 
Figure 8. 
Study Area 1-South 
 
 
176 of 509

--- page 177 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
25 
Figure 9. 
Study Area 2 
 
 
177 of 509

--- page 178 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
26 
Figure 10. 
Study Area 3 
 
 
178 of 509

--- page 179 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
27 
Figure 11. 
Study Area 4 
 
 
179 of 509

--- page 180 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
28 
Figure 12. 
Study Area 5 
 
 
180 of 509

--- page 181 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
29 
Figure 13. 
Study Area 6 
 
 
181 of 509

--- page 182 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
30 
Figure 14. 
Study Area 7 
 
 
182 of 509

--- page 183 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
31 
Figure 15. 
Study Area 8 
 
 
183 of 509

--- page 184 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
32 
Figure 16. 
Study Area 9 
 
 
184 of 509

--- page 185 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
33 
Figure 17. 
Study Area 10 
 
 
185 of 509

--- page 186 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
34 
2.2 
CIRCULATION ALTERNATIVES 
The draft circulation alternatives are shown on Figures 18 through 20 
and are generally described as follows: 
– 
Circulation Alternative A. This alternative aims to create 
walkable communities throughout San Mateo by prioritizing 
pedestrian corridors, pedestrian improvements to challenging 
intersections, and implementing traffic calming and safety 
improvements near highway onramps. This alternative includes 
the closure of B Street to vehicles between 1st Avenue and 3rd 
Avenue Downtown, and creating a pedestrian mall, a project 
approved in September 2021. All the alternatives assume 
pedestrian and bicycle improvements consistent with existing 
City planning documents.  
– 
Circulation Alternative B. This alternative aims to increase and 
improve transit access to and from major connections in San 
Mateo by adding transit connections from Study Areas 3, 6, and 
10 to the Hillsdale Caltrain station, prioritizing dedicated HOV 
and bus lanes, and adding Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) 
improvements to El Camino Real. All the alternatives assume 
pedestrian and bicycle improvements consistent with existing 
City planning documents, including the Downtown pedestrian 
mall on B Street between 1st Avenue and 3rd Avenue. 
– 
Circulation Alternative C. This alternative combines the local 
and regional transportation improvements of Alternatives A and 
B. It adds innovative urban design downtown, inspired by 
Barcelona’s “superblocks,” that allows vehicle access at the 
periphery and limits cut-through vehicles to create a pedestrian 
focused, car-light spaces downtown. In addition, this alternative 
would explore concepts such as an automated micro-transit 
circulator (such as an Autonomous Vehicle shuttle) or a locally 
focused rideshare program (similar to the Via-Cupertino Shuttle) 
within City limits. All the alternatives assume pedestrian and 
bicycle improvements consistent with existing City planning 
documents, including the Downtown pedestrian mall on B Street 
between 1st Avenue and 3rd Avenue.  
Many roadways in San Mateo are lined with existing buildings, utilities, 
and private property, and widening most existing roadways could be 
difficult and/or cost prohibitive. Therefore, under any alternative, it would 
be most likely for future changes to take place within the existing public 
right-of-way. In some cases, depending on the specific location, 
projects such as adding a bicycle lane, creating a dedicated bus lane, 
or widening a sidewalk may affect existing roadway features such as 
on-street parking, a turn lane, or a vehicle travel lane. 
 
186 of 509

--- page 187 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
35 
Figure 18. 
Circulation Alternative A: Prioritizing a Walkable City 
 
 
187 of 509

--- page 188 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
36 
Figure 19. 
Circulation Alternative B: Prioritizing Regional Connections 
 
 
188 of 509

--- page 189 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
37 
Figure 20. 
Circulation Alternative C: Supporting Walking, Regional Connections and Emerging Mobility Solutions 
 
 
189 of 509

--- page 190 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
38 
 
3. Summary of Key Findings 
3.1 
KEY FINDINGS 
To help sort through the information offered about each topic, this 
chapter summarizes the performance of each alternative relative to the 
topics analyzed in Chapter 5 Alternatives Evaluation, focusing on those 
topics where the alternative performs exceptionally well or poorly. Table 
5 also provides a complete summary of the differences among the land 
use alternatives. 
The findings of this report are meant to help the reader decide which 
elements of each of the alternatives should be combined to create the 
preferred land use and circulation alternatives. There are no value 
judgements placed on the findings because everyone differs on what 
outcomes could be considered positive or negative. For example, some 
individuals might consider maintaining an appropriate jobs-housing 
balance a top priority while others may place less importance on this 
issue. The goal of this report is to present sufficient information to let 
you draw your own conclusions.  
– 
Land Use Alternative A 
– 
This alternative would result in the least amount of 
residential growth and have lower densities and heights.  
– 
Due to the lower densities, this alternative would likely not 
be able to meet future RHNA cycles beyond 2031 and 
would result in fewer residents within close proximity to 
transit and less publicly accessible open space.  
– 
Since there are fewer residents near transit, the City’s per 
capita VMT (including both residents and workers) would 
increase under Alternative A. However, total VMT would be 
lowest under Alternative A because it has the lowest total 
amount of new residents and job growth. 
– 
All alternatives have the potential to impact historic 
resources, but Alternative A would propose the fewest 
changes to the Downtown historic district. 
– 
Although police, fire, schools, parks, and library services 
would be impacted under all alternatives, Alternative A 
would necessitate the least expansion of these services 
because it results in the lowest population growth.   
– 
In terms of equity and environmental justice, this alternative 
would add fewer residents within proximity to diesel 
particulate matter exposure but would also provide fewer 
affordable housing units. 
– 
Alternative A would generate the most positive annual net 
fiscal impact for the City, producing 13 percent more net 
revenue ($980,000) than Alternative B and 56 percent more 
net revenue ($2.9 million) than Alternative C. Although 
Alternative A generates the lowest revenues, it also results 
in the lowest cost for public services.   
– 
In terms of market feasibility, the land use types and 
densities would be feasible under Alternative A, although 
the development community would prioritize medium 
density development projects (4 to 7 stories) over the low-
density projects allowed under Alternative A. 
 
 
190 of 509

--- page 191 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
39 
– 
Land Use Alternative B 
– 
Alternative B would most likely be able to fulfill future State-
mandated housing targets, but would have a smaller 
housing buffer compared to Alternative C.  
– 
Alternative B could result in the most changes to the 
Downtown historic district. 
– 
The current market climate favors medium densities (4 to 7 
stories) because the construction costs and parking 
requirements enable the project to pencil out. Alternative B 
includes the most medium density land use designations 
and would have the highest market feasibility. 
– 
Land Use Alternative C 
– 
Alternative C would generate the greatest residential growth 
and have the highest heights and densities.  
– 
Since Alternative C has the greatest residential growth, it 
would most likely be able to fulfill future State-mandated 
housing targets including a sufficient housing site surplus 
as preferred by the State Housing and Community 
Development Department. 
– 
Higher densities around San Mateo’s Caltrain stations and 
high frequency bus stops, would likely increase transit 
ridership, resulting in the lowest per capita VMT of the three 
alternatives. However, total VMT is highest under Alternative 
C because it has the highest increase in both residents and 
workers.  
– 
All alternatives would impact public services and schools 
and generate more water demand than Cal Water’s 
currently planned available supply, but Alternative C would 
produce the greatest demand for expansion of both public 
services and water supply. However, Alternative C could 
also generate the most publicly accessible private open 
space. 
– 
Alternative C could generate the most affordable housing, 
but could also expose the most new residents to diesel 
particulate matter from trucks, buses, and trains on major 
nearby arterial roads and highways, including Highway 101, 
Highway 92, and El Camino Real, as well as the Caltrain rail 
corridor. 
– 
Land Use Alternative C would have a positive net fiscal 
impact on the City, generating $5.2 million net annual in 
funding after accounting for the City’s annual expenditures. 
All three land use alternatives would result in a net annual 
fiscal surplus, but Alternative C would produce the lowest 
net annual fiscal surplus since it has the highest cost for 
providing additional public service needs to accommodate 
the population growth. 
– 
The high construction costs associated with buildings over 
eight stories and  subterranean parking make Alternative C 
have lower market feasibility given current market 
conditions, although the market is likely to change over the 
life of the General Plan. 
– 
Topics with Similar Outcomes Among Alternatives 
– 
Understanding the different pros, cons, and tradeoffs of 
each alternative is valuable to inform decision-making 
about the preferred scenario. For some important topics, 
this evaluation concluded that the outcomes would likely be 
similar among the three land use alternatives.  
191 of 509

--- page 192 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
40 
– 
As shown in Table 4, for six of the 28 topics, the analysis 
concluded that there would not be a meaningful difference 
among the three land use alternatives. Potential impacts to 
the wastewater system, stormwater system, sea level rise, 
flooding, and wildfire hazards and the ability to secure 
community benefits would be the same under all 
alternatives. 
– 
These outcomes are similar among the land use 
alternatives because they are not dependent on specific 
land use changes. These topics will be influenced more 
strongly or effectively by the policies and actions in the 
updated General Plan, as well as by other local, regional, or 
State actions and regulations.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4 
Land Use Alternatives Analysis Summary Matrix 
Components 
Land Use Alternative A 
Land Use Alternative B 
Land Use Alternative C 
Urban Form 
Height and Density 
Has the least high density designations. 
Has more high density-designations than 
Alternative A, but less than Alternative C. 
Has the most high density designations. 
Ability to meet Future 
RHNA 
Would provide the least assurance of meeting 
future RHNA cycles and buffers. 
Would likely accommodate future RHNA 
cycles, but would have a smaller buffer 
compared to Alternative C. 
Would provide the most assurance of 
meeting future RHNA cycles plus buffers. 
Job-Housing 
Balance 
Would have slightly more employed residents 
than local jobs. 
Would have an even number of employed 
residents and local jobs. 
Would have an even number of employed 
residents and local jobs. 
Historic Resources 
Has fewest changes within the Downtown 
historic district. 
Has the most changes within the Downtown 
historic district.  
Has fewer changes to the Downtown historic 
district than Alternative B, but more changes 
than Alternative A. 
Traffic  
Vehicle Miles 
Traveled (VMT) 
Would result in least total VMT, but highest 
per capita VMT. 
Would result in less total VMT compared to 
Alternative C, but more compared to 
Alternative A. Would result in less per capita 
VMT than Alternative A, but more than 
Alternative C. 
Would result in most total VMT, but lowest per 
capita VMT. 
192 of 509

--- page 193 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
41 
Components 
Land Use Alternative A 
Land Use Alternative B 
Land Use Alternative C 
Mode Shift 
Would result in the least amount of future 
residents traveling by bus, bicycle and 
walking. 
Would have similar mode shifts as Alternative 
C and would result in more future residents 
traveling by bus, bicycle, and walking 
compared to Alternative A. 
Would have similar mode shifts to Alternative 
C and would result in more future residents 
traveling by bus, bicycle, and walking 
compared to Alternative A. 
Vehicle-Hours 
Traveled (VHT) 
Would result in the lowest total hours in traffic, 
but the highest number of hours in traffic per 
capita. 
Alternatives B and C would result in the 
highest total hours in traffic. Alternative B 
would have a slightly lower per capita hours in 
traffic than Land Use Alternative A and higher 
per capital hours in traffic than Alternative C. 
Alternatives B and C would result in the 
highest total hours in traffic. Alternative C 
would have the fewest hours in traffic per 
capita. 
Average Speed 
Would have the highest average speeds. 
Would have similar average speeds as 
Alternative C and lower average speeds than 
Alternative A. 
Would have similar average speeds as 
Alternative B and lower average speeds than 
Alternative A. 
Vehicle-Hours of 
Delay (VHD) 
Would have the lowest total hours of vehicle 
delay. 
Would have the highest total hours of vehicle 
delay. 
Would have more total hours of vehicle delay 
than Alternative A and fewer total hours of 
vehicle delay than Alternative B. 
Utilities 
Water 
Would create more water demand than 
current projected supply, but would create 
less demand compared to Alternatives B and 
C. 
Would create more water demand than 
current projected supply, but would create 
less demand than Alternative C. 
Would result in the most water demand 
compared to Alternatives A and B and would 
result in the greatest need for additional future 
water supplies. 
Wastewater Service 
Wastewater Treatment Plant will have 
sufficient capacity to handle projected flows, 
but the use of capacity would have to be 
negotiated with other members of the Joint 
Powers Authority.  
Wastewater Treatment Plant will have 
sufficient capacity to handle projected flows, 
but the use of capacity would have to be 
negotiated with other members of the Joint 
Powers Authority. 
Wastewater Treatment Plant will have 
sufficient capacity to handle projected flows, 
but the use of capacity would have to be 
negotiated with other members of the Joint 
Powers Authority. 
Stormwater Service 
All alternatives would have an equal impact to 
the stormwater system. 
All alternatives would have an equal impact to 
the stormwater system. 
All alternatives would have an equal impact to 
the stormwater system. 
Community Services 
Police 
Would create the least demand for additional 
police services.  
Would create more demand for additional 
police services compared to Alternative A, but 
less demand compared to Alternative C. 
Would create the most demand for additional 
police services. 
Fire 
Would create the least demand for additional 
fire services.  
Would create more demand for additional fire 
services compared to Alternative A, but less 
demand compared to Alternative C. 
Would create the most demand for additional 
fire services. 
193 of 509

--- page 194 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
42 
Components 
Land Use Alternative A 
Land Use Alternative B 
Land Use Alternative C 
Emergency Access 
Would have the fewest number of new homes 
in Study Areas 7, 8, and 9, which are currently 
difficult to access or pass through. 
Would result in the most net new number of 
homes in Study Areas 8 and 9, which has 
difficult access 
Would result in the most net new number of 
homes in Study Area 7, which has difficult 
access 
Public Schools 
Existing schools would be able to 
accommodate the additional new students 
under Alternative A. Would also generate the 
fewest new students.  
Existing schools would be able to 
accommodate the additional new students 
under Alternative B. Would generate less 
students than Alternative C and more 
students than Alternative A.  
Alternative C would exceed existing school 
capacity, and would also generate the most 
new students. 
Parks and Recreation 
All alternatives would further exacerbate the 
existing park land deficiency. Alternative A 
would generate the fewest new residents and 
would have the least demand for new parks 
compared to Alternatives B and C. 
All alternatives would further exacerbate the 
existing park land deficiency. Alternative B 
would generate more park demand than 
Alternative A, but less park demand 
compared to Alternative C. 
All alternatives would further exacerbate the 
existing park land deficiency. Alternative C 
would generate the most new residents and 
would result in the greatest demand for new 
parks. 
Publicly Accessible 
Privately-Owned 
Open Space 
Has the potential to provide the lowest 
amount of publicly accessible open space. 
Has more potential to provide more publicly 
accessible open space than Alternative A, but 
less compared to Alternative C. 
Has the potential to provide the most publicly 
accessible open space. 
Library 
Would generate the least demand for 
additional library services. 
Would generate more demand for library 
services compared to Alternative A, but less 
demand compared to Alternative C. 
Would generate the most demand for 
additional library services. 
Environmental Sustainability 
Sea Level Rise 
All alternatives would have an e qual impact 
from sea level rise. 
All alternatives would have an equal impact 
from sea level rise. 
All alternatives would have an equal impact 
from sea level rise. 
Flooding 
All alternatives would have an equal impact 
from flooding. 
All alternatives would have an equal impact 
from flooding. 
All alternatives would have an equal impact 
from flooding. 
Wildfire Risk 
Study Area 6 is located within the Wildland 
Urban Interface for wildfire risk.  
 Study Area 6 is located within the Wildland 
Urban Interface for wildfire risk. 
 Study Area 6 is located within the Wildland 
Urban Interface for wildfire risk. 
Equity and Public Health 
Housing 
Vulnerability/ 
Displacement 
Would result in the least physical 
displacement through redevelopment. 
Displacement as a result of rising housing 
costs unknown. Includes the least amount of 
new housing, including less affordable 
housing. 
Displacement as a result of rising housing 
costs unknown. Would provide more new 
housing, including affordable housing, than 
Alternative A, but less than Alternative C. 
Displacement as a result of rising housing 
costs unknown. Would provide the most new 
housing, including affordable housing. 
194 of 509

--- page 195 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
43 
Components 
Land Use Alternative A 
Land Use Alternative B 
Land Use Alternative C 
Collision Reduction  
All alternatives could present the opportunity 
to improve traffic and safety conditions in the 
study areas. 
All alternatives could present the opportunity 
to improve traffic and safety conditions in the 
study areas. 
All alternatives could present the opportunity 
to improve traffic and safety conditions in the 
study areas. 
Traffic Density and 
Diesel Particulate 
Matter 
Would add the fewest residents near diesel 
particulate matter exposure areas. 
Would add more residents near diesel 
particulate matter exposure areas than 
Alternative A, but less than Alternative C. 
Would add the most residents near diesel 
particulate matter exposure areas. 
Groundwater Threats 
Following regulations and appropriate 
construction practices will reduce the risk 
from groundwater threats under all 
alternatives.  
Following regulations and appropriate 
construction practices will reduce the risk 
from groundwater threats under all 
alternatives. 
Following regulations and appropriate 
construction practices will reduce the risk 
from groundwater threats under all 
alternatives. 
Access to Parks and 
Open Space 
Alternative A adds the fewest new residents to 
study areas with the least walkable park 
access. It also adds the fewest new residents 
in study areas with good park access. 
Alternative B would add the greatest number 
of new residents to Study Areas 1-N, 1-S, and 
2 that have the least walkable park access, 
but would add the most residents in 1-C with 
high park access. 
 Alternative C would add the greatest number 
of new residents to Study Area 6, which has 
low walkable park access, but would add the 
most residents to Study Areas 3 and 4 that 
have high park access. 
Market Feasibility 
Fiscal Sustainability 
Generates the least revenue ($32.9 million), 
but would have the lowest costs to provide 
additional public service and infrastructure. 
($24.8 million).. The annual net fiscal surplus 
at General Plan buildout is estimated to be 
$8.1 million 
Would generate more revenue ($40.3 million) 
than Alternative A, but less than Alternative C. 
Would cost more to provide additional public 
services and infrastructure ($33.1 million) than 
Alternative A, but less than Alternative C. The 
annual net fiscal surplus at General Plan 
buildout is estimated to be $7.1 million.  
Generates the most revenue ($48.6 million), 
but would also have the highest costs to 
provide for additional public services and 
infrastructure. ($43.4 million). The annual net 
fiscal surplus at General Plan buildout is 
estimated to be $5.2 million.. 
Financial Feasibility 
Generally financially feasible.  
Offers the greatest potential for near-term 
development feasibility due to the current 
feasibility of most midrange-height 
developments. 
  Could become more financially feasible if 
there are above ground parking solutions for 
high density development and/or changes in 
real estate economics over time. 
Community Benefits 
Community Benefits 
All alternatives have the potential to capture 
community benefits. 
All alternatives have the potential to capture 
community benefits. 
All alternatives have the potential to capture 
community benefits. 
195 of 509

--- page 196 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
44 
CIRCULATION ALTERNATIVES SUMMARY 
This section highlights the primary differences between the circulation 
alternatives. Since land use and the performance of the circulation 
network are directly related, the circulation alternatives were reviewed in 
relation to the land use alternatives where feasible. Table 5 summarizes 
the of the analysis of the circulation alternatives in relation to the land 
use alternatives. Each analysis was worth three points and each mode 
had between four and six individual analyses that were combined to get 
a score for each mode. The pedestrian evaluation did not include land 
use changes because the analysis did not look at access but instead 
completing the sidewalk network, potential changes to Downtown and 
tree coverage. The highest scoring alternative is Land Use Alternative C 
with Circulation Alternative C. The lowest scoring is Circulation 
Alternative B with Land Use Alternatives A and B. For a more detailed 
description of this analysis, please refer to the Multimodal Network 
section in Section 5.2.  
It is important to understand that transit projects and roadway projects 
on the state highways system envisioned in the alternatives will require 
partnership and coordination with neighboring jurisdictions, transit 
operators, and Caltrans to implement and cannot be completed by the 
City of San Mateo alone. 
– 
Circulation Alternative A 
– 
This alternative would result in the second highest amount 
of pedestrian improvements and would perform the same 
under all land use alternatives 
– 
Circulation Alternatives A and C include more bicycle 
improvements than Circulation Alternative B.  
– 
Circulation Alternative A performed the lowest in terms of 
transit because it does not include east-west transit 
connections. 
– 
Bicycle and transit improvements under Circulation 
Alternative A performed slightly higher when matched with 
Land Use Alternative C because these improvements 
would benefit more residents. 
– 
Circulation Alternative B 
– 
Circulation Alternative B includes the fewest number of 
pedestrian improvements. 
– 
All circulation alternatives include good bicycle network 
coverage, but because Circulation Alternative B does not 
include bicycle improvements along El Camino Real it 
scored the lowest in this category. 
– 
Circulation Alternatives B and C would have the highest 
transit benefit and both circulation alternatives would 
perform slightly better under Land Use Alternative C. 
– 
Pedestrian and bicycle improvements included under 
Circulation Alternative B performed the same when 
considered in context of the three land use alternatives. 
However, the transit improvements performed slightly 
higher under Land Use Alternative C because it would 
benefit a higher number of people. 
– 
Circulation Alternative C 
– 
Circulation Alternative C would have the highest multi-
modal benefit because it anticipates the most pedestrian, 
bicycle, and transit improvements.  
– 
The public realm improvements and Downtown superblock 
included in Circulation Alternative C would result in the most 
pedestrian 
benefits 
amongst 
the 
three 
circulation 
alternatives and would perform the same under all land use 
alternatives. 
196 of 509

--- page 197 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
45 
– 
The 
bicycle 
improvements 
included 
in 
Circulation 
Alternative C would perform the same under all land use 
alternatives. 
– 
Circulation Alternative C implemented with Land Use 
Alternative C would have the most circulation benefits. 
 
 
 
 
Table 5 
Summary of Multimodal Analysis of Circulation Alternatives 
Circulation  Alternatives 
evaluation by Mode (best 
scores bolded) 
Circulation Alternative A 
Walkability 
Circulation Alternative B 
Transit Connections 
Circulation Alternative C 
Hybrid 
Land Use  ¹ 
A 
Land Use  
B 
Land Use  
C 
Land Use  
A 
` Land Use  
B 
Land Use  
C 
Land Use  
A 
Land Use  
B 
Land Use  
C 
Pedestrian Evaluation 
13/18 
7/18 
16/18 
Bicycle Evaluation 
15/18 
15/18 
15/18 
13/18 
13/18 
13/18 
15/18 
15/18 
15/18 
Transit Evaluation 
6/12 
6/12 
7/12 
8/12 
8/12 
9/12 
8/12 
8/12 
9/12 
Total Multimodal Score² 
34/48 
34/48 
35/48 
28/48 
28/48 
29/48 
39/48 
39/48 
40/48 
¹ Land Use Alternative 
² Points assigned based on comparative evaluation, description of methodology in the Traffic and Multimodal Circulation section. 
197 of 509

--- page 198 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
46 
3.2 
BUILDING YOUR PREFERRED SCENARIO 
When reviewing the results of the alternatives evaluation, you may want 
to think about the topics and outcomes that are most important to you 
to help define your preferred land use and circulation scenario. 
Components and ideas from the land use and circulation alternatives 
can be mixed and matched by land use designation or circulation 
improvement to create your ideal preferred land use and circulation 
scenarios. 
Use this space to jot down your ideas about the land use and circulation 
alternatives and the components you want the preferred scenarios to 
embody.  
1 – El Camino Real 
 
2 - Bel Mateo/ Mollie Stone Area 
 
 
Land Use Alternative A:  
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative B: 
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative C: 
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative A:  
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative B: 
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative C: 
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
198 of 509

--- page 199 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
47 
3 - Rail Corridor Area 
 
4 - Downtown  
 
Land Use Alternative A:  
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative B: 
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative C: 
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative A:  
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative B: 
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative C: 
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
199 of 509

--- page 200 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
48 
5 - Peninsula Ave. Area 
 
6 - Campus Dr. Area  
 
Land Use Alternative A:  
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative B: 
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative C: 
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative A:  
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative B: 
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative C: 
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
200 of 509

--- page 201 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
49 
7 - North Shoreview and Shoreview Area 
 
8 - Parkside Plaza Area  
 
Land Use Alternative A:  
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative B: 
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative C: 
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative A:  
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative B: 
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative C: 
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
201 of 509

--- page 202 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
50 
9 - Hillsdale/ Norfolk Area 
 
10 – Bridgepointe 
 
 
 
Land Use Alternative A:  
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative B: 
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative C: 
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative A:  
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative B: 
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
Land Use Alternative C: 
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ 
202 of 509

--- page 203 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
51 
Circulation 
Alternatives 
Notes 
A 
_____________________________________________________  
_____________________________________________________  
_____________________________________________________  
_____________________________________________________  
_____________________________________________________  
_____________________________________________________  
B 
_____________________________________________________  
_____________________________________________________  
_____________________________________________________  
_____________________________________________________  
_____________________________________________________  
_____________________________________________________  
C 
_____________________________________________________  
_____________________________________________________  
_____________________________________________________  
_____________________________________________________  
_____________________________________________________  
_____________________________________________________  
 
203 of 509

--- page 204 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
52 
 
4. Project Context 
4.1 
GENERAL PLAN VISION AND VALUES 
For six months from fall of 2018 through spring 2019, hundreds of San 
Mateo residents provided input on the General Plan Vision Statement. 
In April 2019, the City Council discussed and finalized the General Plan 
Vision Statement: 
OUR VISION:  
San Mateo is a vibrant, livable, diverse, and healthy community that 
respects the quality of its neighborhoods, fosters a flourishing economy, 
is committed to equity, and is a leader in environmental sustainability.  
OUR VALUES: 
Diversity: 
We 
embrace 
diversity 
and 
respect 
the 
experiences, contributions, and aspirations of people of all 
ages, abilities, incomes, and backgrounds. We celebrate 
arts and culture. 
Balance: We seek to balance well-designed development 
and thoughtful preservation with a full spectrum of choices 
for housing and effective transportation. 
Inclusivity: We strive to include everyone in community life 
and decisions for a shared, sustainable future. 
Prosperity: We cultivate a diverse and thriving economy with 
different types of homes, jobs, recreation, lifelong learning 
opportunities, and services for both current and future 
generations. 
Resiliency: We are leaders in sustainability, making San 
Mateo strong and resilient by acting boldly to adapt to a 
changing world. 
4.2 
PIPELINE PROJECTS 
There are a number of projects currently underway in the City. Table 6 
shows the approved projects by Study Area. Approved projects are 
concentrated in the Downtown area, rail corridor area, and the Campus 
Drive area. This table includes projects that have been approved and 
are eligible to start construction. It does not include projects that are 
currently under review but not yet approved, or projects that are 
currently under construction. There are also a number of projects under 
construction in the city, including Station Park Green (599 units), “One 
90” on Waters Park Drive (190 units), 1650 S. Delaware Street (73 units) 
and the redevelopment of Trag’s Market at 303 Baldwin Avenue (64 
units).  
– 
Study Area 3 (Rail Corridor Area) includes a major development 
project called Concar Passage, which is located on the Concar 
Shopping Center site. The site is approximately 14.5 acres in 
size. The Concar Passage project includes construction of 961 
multifamily dwelling units and approximately 40,000 square feet 
of commercial and retail space. The project also includes 73 
affordable housing units, associated parking and 3 acres of 
community open space. This project was approved by the City 
Council on August 17, 2020. However, due to existing leases for 
shopping center tenants, construction is not anticipated to start 
until 2023 or 2024.   
– 
Study Area 4 (Downtown) includes the Kiku Crossing project at 
480 E. 4th Avenue, which consists of a new 7-story residential 
building with 225 affordable rental units on two City-owned sites 
that are approximately 2.4 acres in size. Construction is 
anticipated to begin in the first half of 2022. 
– 
The Peninsula Heights project in the Study Area 6 on Campus 
Drive was approved by the Planning Commission on December 
8, 2020, and consists of 290 new residential units on two parcels 
approximately 15.5 acres in size. Construction is anticipated to 
begin in the first quarter of 2022. 
204 of 509

--- page 205 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
53 
There are currently no approved but unbuilt projects in Study Areas 1, 
2, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10; however, the City is currently reviewing development 
proposals for new projects in most of these Study Areas.  
For the most up-to-date information on development projects in San 
Mateo, visit the City’s website: 
www.cityofsanmateo.org/whatshappening. 
Table 6 
Approved Projects by Study Area  
Study 
Area 
Project name 
Land Use  
New Units 
3 
Hillsdale Terraces 
Mixed Use/ 
Parking Garage 
68 
21 Lodato 
Residential 
3 
Bay Meadows II SPAR #1 STA 1 
& 5 Modification 
Office 
- 
Bay Meadows MU 2 
Office 
- 
Bay Meadows MU 3 
Office/Residential 
67 
Bay Meadows Res 6 
Residential 
54 
Concar Passage 
Mixed Use  
961 
1919 O’Farrell 
Mixed Use 
49 
4 
210 South Fremont Street 
Residential  
15 
Essex at Central Park 
Mixed Use 
80 
180 E. Third Avenue 
Commercial/Office 
- 
480 E. 4th Ave (Kiku Crossing) 
Affordable Housing/ 
Parking 
225 
6 
Peninsula Heights (Campus 
Drive) 
Residential 
290 
Source: City of San Mateo, 2021 
4.3 
AREA PLANS, MASTER PLANS, AND 
SPECIFIC PLANS 
The following approved specific plans, master plans and area plans 
guide the development and growth in the city:  
– 
Bay Meadows Specific Plan. The Bay Meadows Specific Plan 
covers the 75-acre area of the former Bay Meadows Racetrack. 
Phase I of the Specific Plan has been constructed and included 
734 residential units, 300,000 square feet of retail, 900,000 
square feet of office/commercial, and a 310-room hotel with a 
restaurant. Phase II of the Specific Plan, which includes 1,048 
residential units, 68 of which are affordable units, 1.2 million 
square feet of office space, 67,000 square feet of retail and 
restaurant space, a 450-student private high school, Nueva 
School, and three public parks, is in the process of being 
constructed.  
– 
Hillsdale Station Area Plan. The Hillsdale Station Area Plan, 
adopted on April 18, 2011, is the guiding document for the 
Hillsdale Station Area that sets forth the regulatory framework, 
goals, and policies to transform the area surrounding the 
Hillsdale Caltrain Station into a sustainable, pedestrian-oriented, 
transit hub. 
– 
El Camino Real Master Plan. The City of San Mateo’s El Camino 
Real Committee (ECRC) developed a vision for the future of El 
Camino Real south, from State Route (SR) 92 to the Belmont city 
border. The El Camino Real Master Plan provides greater depth 
into streetscape plans, design guidelines, and implementation 
strategies than the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit Oriented 
Development Plan. 
– 
Mariner’s Island Specific Plan. The Mariner’s Island Specific 
Plan established land use and policy regulation for the 263 net 
acres of land located between Marina Lagoon and San 
Mateo/Foster City City Limits. It was mostly developed in the 
1970’s and 1980’s to include retail, offices, and residences. The 
205 of 509

--- page 206 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
54 
Plan included the following major development projects: the 
Century Centre, San Mateo Centre, and other Class A offices; 
The Edgewater Isle condominiums project; and the Fashion 
Island Shopping Center. 
– 
Shoreline Specific Plan. The Shoreline Specific Plan, adopted in 
1971 and revised in 1990, covers a total of 885 acres and plans 
for 511 acres of park and recreation, the expansion of the 
wastewater treatment plant, water-oriented commercial uses, 
passive open space, storm drainage facilities, and bicycle and 
pedestrian paths. The five subareas of the Plan include 
Shoreland, Seal Point, Seal Cove, Marina Lagoon, and San 
Mateo Creek. 
– 
Detroit Drive Specific Plan. The Detroit Drive Specific Plan, 
adopted in 1984 and amended in 1990, established 
development criteria for industrial and manufacturing use of a 
7.25-acre site bounded by J. Hart Clinton Drive, the realigned 
Detroit Drive, the Dale Avenue Entrance to the Wastewater 
Treatment Plant, and the South Shoreview residential 
subdivision. 
– 
Downtown Area Plan. The Downtown Area Plan, adopted by the 
City Council in 2003 then revised on May 19, 2009, covers about 
70 blocks traditionally known as Downtown, plus the area known 
as the Gateway and portions of adjacent neighborhoods. This 
plan pertains to new Downtown development and focuses on 
preserving existing Downtown resources, enhancing its vitality 
and activity, all while maintaining a sense of place. 
4.4 
THE HOUSING ELEMENT 
The Housing Element is a required section of the General Plan that 
provides policies and programs to ensure that San Mateo can 
accommodate housing for all members of the community at all income 
levels. The Housing Element must include a variety of statistics on 
housing needs, constraints to development, and policies and programs 
to implement a variety of housing-related land use actions, and a 
detailed inventory of “opportunity sites” on which future housing may be 
built. The Housing Element is the only element of the General Plan that 
is subject to State requirements for content and which must be 
approved (“certified”) by the State Housing and Community 
Development Department (HCD). Having a certified Housing Element is 
a prerequisite for many State grants and funding programs.  
Although the Housing Element is legally a part of the General Plan, the 
two projects are on parallel but separate tracks in order to ensure that 
the Housing Element meets State imposed deadlines for adoption by 
the beginning of 2023. The General Plan team is working closely with 
the Housing Element team to ensure that these two important efforts are 
integrated. The Housing Element will evaluate specific sites citywide and 
establish programs and policies to address fair housing conditions 
citywide. 
The City itself is not responsible for building housing, but it must 
demonstrate in the Housing Element that it has policies and programs 
in place to support housing construction for all income levels, as well as 
available land with appropriate zoning and densities to accommodate 
new housing. The City of San Mateo supports efforts to provide 
affordable housing in the city and has a department that is dedicated to 
providing financial assistance for the construction and rehabilitation of 
rental housing, minor home repair programs, and home ownership 
programs. The following is a list of housing resources and programs 
available at the City:    
– 
Minor Home Repairs. The City provides grants to non-profit 
service agencies for provision of Minor Home Repairs to income 
qualified homeowners. The program offers home repairs to 
improve health and safety, housing accessibility modifications, 
and energy efficiency retrofit measures to income qualified 
individuals. 
206 of 509

--- page 207 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
55 
– 
Home Rehabilitation Loan. The City offers up to a maximum of 
$60,000 for housing rehabilitation assistance to low-income 
homeowners in the form of deferred payment loans. 
– 
Code Enforcement. The City enforces State and local codes to 
improve residential areas through abatement, administrative 
citations and fees, civil penalties, and civil litigation to bring 
about compliance. It also provides tenant relocation assistance 
in the event tenants are displaced due to code enforcement 
actions. 
– 
Public Funding of Low/Moderate Income Housing. The City 
coordinates federal Community Development Block Grant 
(CDBG) and HOME Investment Partnerships (HOME) Program 
funds, Low/Moderate Income Housing funds from the former 
Redevelopment Agency, Commercial Linkage Fees, the State 
Permanent Local Housing Allocation, and CalHome funds to 
address the construction, acquisition, and rehabilitation of 
housing units affordable to very low, low and moderate income 
households. 
Since 2013, the City has provided three City owned sites for 
affordable housing resulting in the development of 400 units. 
The City’s First Time Homebuyer program provides down 
payment assistance to units at three locations in addition to the 
below-market rate ownership units located in market rate 
developments.  The City keeps a master waitlist for interested 
buyers of these restricted units. The City also has over 1,670 
restricted affordable units (300 ownership and 1,370 rental) 
citywide. In 2021, another 388 affordable units are approved or 
under construction. 
– 
Private Development of Affordable Housing. The City 
increased the minimum inclusionary requirement from 10 to 15 
percent for its Below Market Rate program in February 2020.  
Many developers also take advantage of the State Density 
Bonus provisions that often results in more affordability than the 
City base requirements. The City also adopted a Commercial 
Linkage Fee ordinance in 2016. All non-housing projects with 
net new construction of 5,000 square feet or greater are required 
to pay the commercial linkage fee, which is used to provide 
affordable housing units. 
– 
ADUs/JADUs. Consistent with 2016 State housing legislation, 
the City Council adopted a new ADU/JADU ordinance in March 
2017. The City is working on another revision of the ADU/JADU 
Ordinance to be consistent with current State law and to further 
streamline production, with adoption anticipated in the first 
quarter of 2022.  
– 
Senior Project Location. The City continues to promote the 
development of senior housing through its use of the Senior 
Citizen Overlay District, which reduces parking requirements for 
senior developments and by allowing senior projects within 
multifamily and commercially zoned properties.  
– 
Mixed Use. Construction of mixed use buildings that include 
housing units are permitted in all commercial zoning districts, 
except Service Commercial, either by zoning or a Special Use 
Permit. 
– 
Persons Experiencing Homelessness. The City provides 
continuous representation and participation in the County 
Continuum of Care, which focuses on programs for prevention 
of homelessness and services to homeless families and 
individuals.  There is also a permanent supportive housing 
project, called Vendome, that provides 16 units for the most 
chronic formerly homeless individuals. First Step for Families 
also provides 39 emergency and transitional shelter units for 
families with children.  
 
 
207 of 509

--- page 208 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
56 
The Zoning Code was amended in 2009 to allow emergency 
shelters in C-2 and C-3 zoning districts as a permitted use. The 
City also supports home sharing through funding Human 
Investment Project Housing, a local non-profit whose main 
service is matching home seekers with those offering space for 
home sharing to prevent homelessness. 
– 
Energy and Water Efficiency. The City joined 5 Property 
Assessed Clean Energy programs to provide financing options 
to homeowners to perform energy upgrades to their homes. 
– 
Special Need Groups. The City provides financial assistance 
to nonprofit organizations that provide housing, rental 
assistance and/or housing related services to a variety of special 
needs populations. The City also adopted a Reasonable 
Accommodation ordinance on June 16, 2014, which allows 
reasonable accommodation requests from the City’s Zoning 
Code.  
– 
Open Choice. The City contracts with Project Sentinel to 
provide Fair Housing services, monitoring and investigation. All 
housing related projects or services funded by the City include 
affirmative marketing guidelines and are monitored on a regular 
basis. 
– 
Transit-Oriented Development. The San Mateo Rail Corridor 
Plan Transit-Oriented Development Plan, and a subsequent 
ordinance, was adopted by the City Council in 2005. This 
document and the subsequent specific plan and design 
guidelines regulate development in the rezoned Transit Oriented 
Development properties. 
REGIONAL HOUSING NEEDS ALLOCATION  
The Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG) – the regional 
planning agency for the Bay Area - assigns State-mandated Regional 
Housing Needs Allocation (RHNA) units to each jurisdiction. The 
methodology used to allocate units is the same for all jurisdictions within 
the nine-county Bay Area. ABAG must distribute the Bay Area’s regional 
housing need of 441,176 housing units to all of the cities, towns, and 
counties in the Bay Area. San Mateo’s RHNA for the current Housing 
Element is expected to be approximately 7,015 units, distributed among 
four income categories that range from very low income to above 
moderate income.  
This means the City of San Mateo must ensure that there is enough land 
zoned at appropriate densities to accommodate 7,015 new units, plus 
a buffer which is described further herein. In comparison to this current 
RHNA, which is the “6th cycle,” San Mateo’s previous 5th Cycle 
allocation in 2014 was 3,100 units. The draft allocations throughout the 
Bay Area are high in part because the region’s bulk allocation from the 
State of California is more than double the last Housing Element Cycle’s 
allocation to the region, which was about 189,000 units.  
Although the RHNA allocation is not a direct requirement to build units, 
the State legislature has enacted increasingly stringent requirements on 
localities to ensure they are doing everything possible for housing to be 
built and to remove common barriers to housing construction. This 
includes demonstrating in an opportunity sites inventory that the 
allocation can be met, plus providing a buffer of at least 15 to 30 percent. 
A buffer is necessary to ensure that if some of the sites listed in the 
Housing Element are developed without housing, are developed with 
less than the full amount of housing projected in the Housing Element, 
or are not developed at the income levels identified in the Housing 
Element, there is sufficient remaining capacity to ensure an ongoing 
supply of sites for the full RHNA during the eight years of the Housing 
Element Cycle at every income level. HCD recommends a buffer of at 
least 15 to 30 percent, but many jurisdictions anticipate providing a 
buffer of up to 50 percent. The City’s previous Housing Element 
208 of 509

--- page 209 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
57 
included a RHNA allocation of 3,100 units along with a “buffer” of 1,623 
units (about 52 percent of the allocation) – that is, the Housing Element 
identified enough land zoned at appropriate densities to accommodate 
a total of 4,723 units.  
It is important to note that, while the State requires the City of San Mateo 
to plan for the RHNA housing units, it does not mean that the City is 
required to build these housing units.  
Please visit https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/HousingElement2023 to 
learn more about the City’s Housing Element. 
AFFIRMATIVELY FURTHERING FAIR HOUSING 
Assembly Bill 686 requires cities and counties to administer its 
programs and activities relating to housing in a manner to affirmatively 
further fair housing and not take any action that is inconsistent with this 
obligation. This means taking actions to overcome patterns of 
segregation, address disparities in housing needs and access to 
opportunity, and foster inclusive communities. Housing Elements must 
now, among other things, include an assessment of fair housing 
practices, examine the relationship of available sites to areas of high 
opportunity, and include actions to affirmatively further fair housing. 
Potential programs that may be included in the Housing Element which 
affirmatively further fair housing include assisting with rehabilitation and 
repair of housing for low-income households and expanding services to 
underserved communities. The Housing Element is also intended to 
affirmatively further fair housing by ensuring that San Mateo can 
accommodate housing for all members of the community at all income 
levels.  
HOUSING ELEMENT SITES 
State law requires that the Housing Element contain a site-by-site 
inventory of land suitable for development of all housing types, including 
multifamily. The identified land must have access to appropriate 
services and infrastructure, such as water, wastewater, and roads. 
These are called opportunity sites. As has been the case for the last 
three Housing Elements, staff has conducted a City-wide review of 
parcels that are either vacant or underutilized to discern if these sites 
are appropriate for development. These sites may or may not eventually 
be developed for housing, as the choice is, and always will be, at the 
owner’s decision.  
The constraints facing the City with respect to developing the 
opportunity sites inventory are significant, in part because there is very 
little vacant land available for development.  As a consequence, the City 
must analyze sites with existing uses that may be redeveloped. Further, 
Measure Y imposes height and density limits that limit the amount of 
development that can be built on any site in San Mateo through 2030.  
All of these factors will present challenges in developing an acceptable 
opportunity sites inventory for the current and future RHNA Cycles solely 
within the 10 Study Areas. 
Some additional factors considered in the development of the site 
inventory include: 
1. Whether a site has an underperforming use on it; 
2. Whether other sites in the area have seen recent redevelopment to 
housing; 
3. Whether the site has sufficient infrastructure available to it; 
4. Whether the site’s topography makes it suitable for housing 
development; and, 
5. Whether the site is of a sufficient size to be developed for housing. 
 
 
209 of 509

--- page 210 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
58 
Except for Study Area 1-North, all other Study Areas have several sites 
that have been identified as suitable land for development of all housing 
types, including multifamily. All identified opportunity sites are 
designated Residential Medium or Residential High, Mixed Use 
Medium, or Mixed Use High in all three alternatives to maintain 
consistency with the Housing Element process. The inventory of 
opportunity sites will be finalized when the Housing Element is adopted.  
4.5 
OTHER CITYWIDE REGULATIONS AND 
PROJECTS 
In addition to the General Plan, the City has other documents and 
projects that guide land use, transportation, and sustainability. The 
following lists includes a several of the key documents and projects: 
– 
Zoning Code. The City’s Zoning Code implements the land use 
goals and policies established in the General Plan. It regulates 
land uses, building heights, setbacks, provision of open space, 
and other factors that relate to development on individual 
properties. 
– 
Future Complete Streets Plan. The City was awarded a 
California 
Department 
of 
Transportation 
Sustainable 
Communities Grant for the development of a Complete Streets 
Plan. This effort, which will be initiated in 2022, will create an 
actionable transportation plan rooted in safety for all modes, 
resulting in policies, goals, and prioritized projects that are 
focused on improving mobility, equity, connectivity, and 
sustainability.  
– 
Climate Action Plan. The City’s 2020 Climate Action Plan 
provides a comprehensive list of community-wide actions that 
will help reduce GHG emissions from buildings, vehicles, and 
other sources. 
– 
Green Infrastructure Plan. This plan guides the siting, 
implementation, tracking, and reporting of green infrastructure 
projects, which use plants and soils to mimic natural watershed 
processes, capture stormwater, increase groundwater infiltration 
and create healthier environments on City-owned land.  
– 
Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan. The City’s pedestrian master 
plan provides a broad vision, strategies, and actions for 
improving the pedestrian environment in San Mateo. It studied 
pedestrian travel in the City, analyzed collision data, and 
developed recommendations to improve pedestrian access.   
– 
Bicycle Master Plan. This plan guides the future development 
of bicycle facilities and programs in the City. This plan will enable 
San Mateo residents and visitors with the opportunity to utilize 
various bicycle network roadways and parking facilities for work 
or recreation. 
– 
US 101/Peninsula Avenue Interchange Project. This project 
includes the relocation of the U.S. Hwy 101 southbound on- and 
off-ramps from East Poplar Avenue to Peninsula Avenue in order 
to create a single, full-access interchange at Peninsula Avenue 
and Airport Boulevard to improve safety and traffic operations. 
The project is currently undergoing an environmental review 
process.   
– 
25th Avenue Grade Separation Project. This project was 
completed in September 2021. It raised the train tracks, slightly 
lowered the road (grade separated) at E. 25th Avenue, and 
created new east-west street connections at 28th and 31st 
Avenues between S. Delaware Street and El Camino Real. 
 
 
210 of 509

--- page 211 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
59 
– 
Multijurisdictional Local Hazard Mitigation Plan. A Draft 2021 
Multijurisdictional Local Hazard Mitigation Plan was recently 
released. This Plan was written with a partnership of 36 local 
governments and special districts in San Mateo County, 
including the City of San Mateo. It identifies natural and human-
caused hazards and helps the City plan ahead to mitigate, 
respond to, and recover from disasters.  
For more information on other planning efforts, please visit the City’s 
website: www.cityofsanmateo.org  
4.6 
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW REQUIREMENTS 
Even after the Preferred Scenario is selected and the updated General 
Plan is adopted, there are many steps a project must go through to 
ensure it meets all applicable City standards and requirements. The 
following is a brief summary of San Mateo’s development review 
process for all projects that require a Planning Application:  
PRE-APPLICATION REVIEW 
– 
Planning staff consultation. Initial discussions with 
planning staff to determine scope of project, application 
requirements, applicable codes and policies, and to 
determine if a pre-application submittal is required. Formal 
Pre-Applications are required for projects consisting of more 
than 20 residential units; 10,000 square feet of new floor 
area; and/or Zoning Reclassifications or General Plan 
Amendments.  
– 
Pre-Application submittal. Plans and materials submitted 
per the submittal requirements in the Pre-Application Guide. 
– 
Internal staff review. Departmental review (Planning, 
Building 
Public 
Works, 
Transportation, 
Parks 
and 
Recreation, Police, Fire) for high-level compliance with 
applicable codes, policies and City requirements 
– 
Neighborhood meeting. In coordination with staff, a 
neighborhood meeting is scheduled and notices are sent 
out.  Applicant leads the meeting and takes meeting 
minutes. 
Staff 
planner 
attends 
and 
answers 
City 
requirements or procedure-related questions. 
– 
Planning Commission Study Session. Following the 
neighborhood meeting, a study session is held before the 
Planning Commission to review the project on a preliminary 
basis to provide input on elements such as site planning, 
building and architectural design, and landscaping. 
FORMAL PLANNING APPLICATION 
– 
Internal staff review. Once an application is submitted, City 
departments 
(Planning, 
Building 
Public 
Works, 
Transportation, Parks and Recreation, Police, Fire) review for 
compliance with applicable codes, policies and City 
requirements; once all comments are addressed the 
application is deemed complete. After being deemed 
complete, Conditions of Approval are prepared. 
– 
Environmental Review. Once an application is deemed 
complete, environmental review completed consistent with 
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), which 
could include an exemption, an Initial Study/Mitigated 
Negative Declaration, or an Environmental Impact Report.   
– 
Final Approval. Depending on the type of project and the 
type of approval being sought, final approval could come 
from the Zoning Administrator, the Planning Commission, or 
the City Council.  
 
 
211 of 509

--- page 212 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
60 
 
5. Alternatives Evaluation 
This chapter includes a detailed evaluation and comparison of the three 
land use and circulation alternatives and their differing potential 
outcomes on:  
– 
Urban Form 
– 
Traffic and Multimodal Circulation 
– 
Community Services 
– 
Utilities 
– 
Environmental Sustainability 
– 
Equity And Public Health 
– 
Fiscal Sustainability  
– 
Market Feasibility  
– 
Community Benefits 
Each section also lists potential Policy Considerations. Future 
development in San Mateo will be influenced by the land uses allowed 
in the General Plan and will also be strongly influenced by the policies 
in the General Plan. The policy considerations offered here will be 
subject to community discussion and debate as the General Plan is 
drafted and reviewed before adoption.  
5.1 
URBAN FORM 
HEIGHT AND DENSITY 
The City of San Mateo’s Zoning Code regulates the height and density 
of buildings citywide. Maximum building height standards are set forth 
on the Building Height Plan of the General Plan. Additionally, the City’s 
Downtown Specific Plan and Bay Meadows Specific Plan define height 
and density standards for the areas encompassed by these specific 
plans.  
San Mateo is largely “built-out,” meaning there are relatively few vacant 
parcels within the city limit. In order to accommodate the State required 
housing numbers (RHNA) and anticipated job growth, some limited 
areas of the city will need to redevelop at a higher intensity. This could 
be achieved through increased densities and/or higher building heights. 
The alternatives are based on community input and consider potential 
land use changes, using the new land use typologies, that reflect a 
range of allowed heights and densities for all types of development. The 
alternatives do not assume or propose any specific buildings or 
development projects, and no decisions have been made about future 
heights on individual parcels.  
In November 2020, San Mateo voters approved Measure Y, which 
extended past voter-approved limits on new residential building heights 
and densities to be no more than 50 dwelling units per acre and 55 feet 
in height with some exceptions, including development within the 
Hillsdale Shopping Center (Study Area 10) and some specific areas of 
Downtown (Study Area 4) where building heights of up to 60 feet and 
75 feet may be allowed, respectively. The range of land use categories 
used in the alternatives would maintain existing height limits in some 
areas, but the land use categories Residential Medium, Residential 
High, Mixed-Use Medium, Mixed-Use High, Office Medium, and Office 
High would allow buildings with six or more stories, which exceed 
Measure Y’s prescribed building height and/or density limits. Residential 
Medium, Office Medium, and Mixed-Use Medium, which allow a range 
of 4 to 7 stories in building height.  Buildings of 4 to 5 stories under these 
“Medium” land use designations would generally be allowed under 
Measure Y, but buildings exceeding 5 stories would not be aligned with 
the measure. 
Among the three alternatives, Alternative C shows the most areas of 
change with the highest intensities (density and building height) 
throughout the study areas, including Mixed-Use Medium along the 
southern end of El Camino Real (Study Area 2), Mixed-Use High uses 
along El Camino Real around the Hillsdale station (Study Area 3), and 
in Downtown (Study Area 4) with Residential High uses along Railroad 
212 of 509

--- page 213 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
61 
Avenue and Mixed-Use High uses between Baldwin Avenue and 5th 
Avenue. Buildings in the Residential High designation could be 8 or 
more stories tall. At the same time, Alternative C also maintains the most 
areas that are in alignment with Measure Y, including the Mixed-Use 
Low uses along Peninsula Avenue and the Residential Low uses in 
Study Areas 4 and 8. Alternative C focuses its highest density uses in 
concentrated nodes throughout the study areas, while Alternatives A 
and B have greater distribution of Medium density uses throughout the 
study areas. 
Overall, Alternative A has the least High-density designations compared 
to Alternatives B and C, and also preserves several areas consistent 
with Measure Y, including Mixed-use Medium in Downtown (Study Area 
4) between Baldwin Avenue and 3rd Avenue and Mixed-Use Low along 
El Camino Real near the Hillsdale station (Study Area 3).  
Alternative B has more High density-designations than Alternative A, but 
less than Alternative C, including Residential High uses along El Camino 
Real between 12th Avenue and 16th Avenue (Study Area 1 Central). In 
contrast, Alternatives A and C propose primarily Mixed-Use Medium in 
this area.  
Most of the study areas are bordered by existing single-family residential 
neighborhoods with homes typically 1 to 2 stories high. Since Mixed-
Use, Residential, and Office uses at Medium and High densities would 
potentially be 4 to 7 stories (Medium) and more than 8 stories tall (High), 
new development at these proposed heights would affect the visual 
character of neighborhoods adjacent to these higher density nodes and 
could cast shadows during certain parts of the day onto nearby single-
family residences. This would occur in all Alternatives, but Alternatives 
B and C have the most Medium and High density designations that abut 
single-family neighborhoods. Alternative C has the greatest amount of 
High density development next to single-family neighborhoods in Study 
Areas 3 and 4, particularly around the Hayward Park and future Hillsdale 
transit stations. In Alternative B, there are areas with High density 
development near single-family residences along El Camino Real in 
Study Area 1 and around the future Hillsdale transit station in Study Area 
3. 
Land use changes proposed within Study Areas 6, 9, and 10 have less 
of an impact on existing single-family residences as these study areas 
are more geographically isolated, adjacent to wider roadways, or are 
buffered from single-family residential neighborhoods by other uses.  
ABILITY TO MEET FUTURE RHNA 
As described in Section 4.4., State law requires every California 
jurisdiction to plan for its “fair share” of the regional housing need for 
households of all income levels. San Mateo’s 6th Cycle RHNA is 7,015 
housing units, distributed among four income categories that range 
from Very Low Income to Above Moderate Income. The City must 
ensure it can accommodate the new housing units that might be built  
for the period from 2023 to 2031.  
Although the RHNA allocation is not a requirement to build units, the 
State legislature has enacted increasingly stringent requirements on 
cities to ensure they are doing everything possible for housing to be built 
and to remove common barriers to housing construction. Working under 
this assumption, all three alternatives have been developed to include 
enough housing sites to fulfill the city’s anticipated RHNA 6th Cycle 
numbers. However, the General Plan extends beyond the 6th Cycle. 
Assuming continued 8-year RHNA cycles, and that the General Plan’s 
expected life cycle is until 2040, the updated General Plan should 
designate sufficient residential land to accommodate the future 7th 
Cycle (January 2031 to January 2039) and early 8th Cycle (January 2039 
to January 2047).  
 
 
213 of 509

--- page 214 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
62 
The scale of future housing allocations is unknown and difficult to 
predict.  If the 7th Cycle RHNA is in the same proportion to the existing 
number of homes as the 6th Cycle RHNA, it would call for 8,000 to 8,500 
new units, for a minimum of about 15,000 new units over the 6th and 7th 
Cycles combined, covering the years 2023 to 2039. This does not 
include any additional “buffer” for the two RHNA cycles, nor additional 
capacity for the 8th Cycle RHNA, which will begin in 2039 before the 
General Plan horizon year of 2040. 
If the City does not designate adequate residential sites to meet the 
future RHNAs as part of the General Plan Update, the next Housing 
Element, eight years from now, will need to revisit the General Plan land 
use map and include a process to identify and change the designations 
on additional sites to accommodate more future housing. The ability for 
each alternative to meet the 6th Cycle RHNA and future cycles are 
described below.  
– 
Alternative A, which anticipates 11,810 units, meets the 6th 
Cycle RHNA plus a buffer and would likely accommodate about 
1,188 units of capacity remaining for future RHNAs beyond 
2031. However, if future RHNAs are similar to the 6th cycle RHNA, 
Alternative A isn’t enough to accommodate the full amount, and 
the City would have to complete a substantial update to the 
Land Use, Circulation, and Housing Elements in order to 
account for future RHNA cycles, including the 7th Cycle, which 
is due for certification in January 2031.  
– 
Alternative B, which anticipates 16,070 units, could likely 
accommodate the City’s 6th and 7th Cycle RHNAs and at least 
a small buffer, and would allow for Land Use and Circulation 
Elements that align more closely with the desired life cycle of 
General Plan 2040, assuming future allocations follow current 
trends.  
– 
Alternative C, which anticipates 21,080 units, would provide the 
most assurance in terms of meeting future RHNA cycles and 
buffers within the Study Areas and corresponding with the 
projected life cycle of General Pan 2040.  
JOBS-HOUSING BALANCE 
Jobs-housing balance is a measure of how well the local economy 
provides jobs for the local labor force. An adequate balance of housing 
and jobs can benefit the city’s economy, environment, and the 
resident’s quality of life. Although this topic is often described as “jobs-
housing” balance, comparing the number of jobs to the number of 
residents is a more direct comparison of individuals, rather than 
comparing people to homes. The jobs-employed residents ratio is 
calculated by dividing the number of jobs in the community by the 
number of employed residents in the same area. It must take into 
account the fact that many residents are children, seniors, students, or 
otherwise not part of the workforce. A high number of jobs relative to 
residents typically indicates that workers are commuting into the 
community. A low number of jobs and high number of residents typically 
indicates that workers are commuting out of the community for work. 
When the number of employed residents is significantly higher than the 
number of jobs in the city, it can lead to increased traffic congestion as 
workers commute either in or out, which in turn creates increased air 
pollutant emissions, increased noise, and increased GHG emissions.  It 
should be noted that the ratio of jobs to employed residents indicates a 
numerical match, not a qualitative match in job type vs. resident skills 
and abilities.  
An ideal jobs-to-employed residents ratio for a city like San Mateo would 
be 1.0, which indicates that there is a job in the community for every 
employed resident. It is important to note, even with an ideal jobs-to-
employed residents ratio of 1.0, that many residents will continue to 
commute outside of San Mateo while workers that do not reside in San 
Mateo will continue to commute in. As shown in Figure 21, “Where 
People Live vs. Work,” as of 2018, approximately 49,000 people that 
worked in San Mateo lived outside of the city and approximately 49,000 
214 of 509

--- page 215 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
63 
San Mateo residents commuted outside of the City for work, and only 
approximately 7,000 both live and work in San Mateo.  Since 2020, the 
Covid pandemic has changed commute patterns in the Bay Area for 
those workers who are able to work remotely. However, comparable US 
Census data to what is displayed in Figure 21 is not yet available for 
2020 or 2021.   
Although the City cannot control whether jobs within San Mateo are filled 
by residents, striving for a jobs-to-employed residents ratio of 1.0 
increases the opportunity for employed residents to find a job in San 
Mateo.  
Table 7 shows the jobs-to-employed residents ratio for the three land 
use alternatives. Based on existing conditions plus net new employees 
and new population projected through 2040 under each alternative:  
– 
Alternative A would result in a slightly higher jobs-employed 
residents balance when compared to the baseline year of 2018 
(this is the most recent year for which reliable data is available; 
in 2020 and 2021 these numbers have been affected by the 
Covid pandemic). This implies that San Mateo would have 
slightly more jobs than employed residents.  
– 
Alternatives B and C would result in a slightly lower jobs-
employed residents balance when compared to the baseline 
year of 2018. However, Alternative B would still result in a jobs-
employed residents ratio over 1.0. Alternative C would result in 
a jobs-employed residents ratio of .95.    
All three alternatives are very close together when considering the total 
number of existing plus net new jobs and employed residents, and 
because this is a numerical ratio rather than an exact match of workers 
to jobs. As describe previously, in- and out-commuting will still continue 
under any alternative even with at an ideal jobs-to-employed residents 
of 1.0.  
Figure 21. 
Where People Live vs. Work 
 
Table 7 
Jobs to Employed Residents Ratio 
  
Existing 
(2018)  
Alternative A 
(Net New + 
Existing) 
Alternative B 
(Net New + 
Existing) 
Alternative C 
(Net New + 
Existing) 
Population 
104,500 
133,998 
144,759 
158,007 
Jobs 
52,800 
68,230 
68,230 
67,790 
Est. Employed 
residents (0.45) 
49,500 
60,300 
65,150 
71,100 
Jobs-to-
Employed 
Residents Ratio 
1.07 
1.13 
1.05 
.95 
Source: PlaceWorks, 2021 
 
 
215 of 509

--- page 216 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
64 
HISTORIC RESOURCES 
The City of San Mateo’s 1989 Historic Building Survey includes 
information regarding a variety of historic resources as well as 
contributors to a historic district. The Historic Building Survey identified 
approximately 200 historically significant structures as shown on Figure 
22. Of the 200 structures, approximately 37 structures were eligible for 
the National Register of Historic Places.1 To establish the historic 
significance of buildings, the Survey utilized the evaluation standards 
adopted by the California State Office of Historic Preservation. The 
Historic Building Survey focused on areas east of El Camino Real 
because this is where the oldest neighborhoods mostly occurred.2 
Since over 30 years have passed since the last Historic Building Survey, 
it is possible that there are new structures that could be considered 
historic per federal and State guidelines.  
Five buildings in the City are listed on the National Register of Historic 
Places: Ernest Coxhead House on the East of Santa Inez, De Sabla 
Teahouse and Tea Garden on De Sabla Avenue, Hotel Saint Matthew 
on Second Avenue, National Bank of San Mateo on B Street, and the 
US Post Office on South Ellsworth Street.3 Thirteen historic resources, 
including Central Park and the Jepson Laurel Tree (the oldest and 
largest known Laurel in California), are listed on the California State 
Register. The City of San Mateo’s 1989 Historic Building Survey includes 
information regarding a variety of historic resources as well as 
contributors to a historic district. The Historic Building Survey identified 
approximately 200 historically significant structures. Of the 200 
 
1 City of San Mateo, Historic Resources Handout, page 1. 
2 San Mateo County Historical Association, City of San Mateo Historic Building Survey, 1989, page 4. 
3 City of San Mateo, Vision 2030 General Plan, pages VI-8. 
4 City of San Mateo, Historic Resources Handout, page 1. 
5 San Mateo County Historical Association, City of San Mateo Historic Building Survey, 1989, page 4. 
6 https://www.nps.gov/tps/standards/treatment-guidelines-2017.pdf 
7 San Mateo County Historical Association, City of San Mateo Historic Building Survey, 1989, page 19. 
8 San Mateo County Historical Association, City of San Mateo Historic Building Survey, 1989, page 20. 
structures, approximately 37 structures are eligible for the National 
Register of Historic Places.4 To establish the historic significance of 
buildings, the Survey utilized the evaluation standards adopted by the 
California State Office of Historic Preservation. The Historic Building 
Survey focused on areas east of El Camino Real.5  
The Historic Building Survey also identified two historic districts, the 
Downtown Historic District and the Glazenwood Historic District. In 
addition to any individual buildings, common areas, or historic sites 
within these Districts, the relationship of buildings to each other, 
setbacks, fence patterns, views, driveways and walkways, and street 
trees and other landscaping together establish the character of the 
District.6 
Historic resources in the Downtown Historic District, which is within 
Study Area 4, are mainly concentrated along East Third Avenue and 
South B Street, though historic structures exist throughout the 
Downtown.7 Historic structures in the Downtown Historic District were 
built before 1900 to the late 1930s.8 The Glazenwood Historic District, 
which is immediately south of Study Area 4 but is not within any of the 
study areas, is a residential area that includes 1920’s Spanish Colonial 
Revival homes.  To support the preservation of these historic resources, 
the City has codified protection of historic buildings in the General Plan 
and Zoning Code.  
 
 
216 of 509

--- page 217 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
65 
Figure 22. 
Historic Resources 
 
 
 
217 of 509

--- page 218 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
66 
Within the Historic District itself, any future change would be regulated 
by federal, State, and local codes that protect identified historic 
resources, although these regulations do not prohibit demolition or 
alteration of historic buildings. Impacts to the Historic District could 
come from change within the district or from development outside of, 
but adjacent to, the district. New construction replacing historic 
buildings could introduce incompatible site design, height and bulk, or 
materials and features adjacent to historic buildings. This could effect 
the integrity of the buildings and the Historic District as resources even 
if the historic buildings themselves are not changed. 
Study Area 4 includes the Downtown Historic District and the highest 
concentration of individual historic buildings in San Mateo. Within Study 
Area 4:  
– 
Alternative A includes least change Downtown. Most of 
Downtown is designated Mixed Use Medium, which is 
consistent with the existing development pattern, therefore least 
likely to stimulate change and likely to have the fewest impacts.  
– 
Alternative B would allow the greatest change inside the 
Historic District. It designates the northern arm of District 
between Baldwin Avenue, 2nd Avenue, Ellsworth Avenue, and B 
Street as Mixed-Use High. The ability to build larger and taller 
buildings as compared to the other two alternatives could 
motivate property owners to go through the difficult, expensive, 
and risky process of proposing to redevelop on or next to an 
historic property. Alternative B would be the most likely to impact 
historic resources within the Downtown Historic District.  
– 
Alternative C designates the entire Historic District Mixed Use 
Medium, so properties within the District would be less likely to 
be directly impacted than under Alternative B. However, 
Alternative C allows Mixed Use High throughout much of 
Downtown, including properties immediately next to the Historic 
District. Alternative C would be most likely to result in 
development incompatible with the existing historic fabric 
surrounding the Downtown Historic District.  
Central Park is a State-listed historic resource also located within Study 
Area 4. The three alternatives are substantially similar in the land use 
designations around Central Park, with the exception of the buildings to 
the north across 5th Avenue. These parcels are designated Mixed Use 
Medium in Alternative A, a mix of Mixed-Use Medium and Mixed-Use 
High in Alt B, and Mixed-Use High in Alternative C. Alternative C would 
represent the greatest likelihood of change to the existing urban fabric 
on the north side of Central Park. However, this change would not be 
likely to threaten the eligibility of Central Park to remain on the California 
State Register.  
The Historic Building Survey identifies scattered historic resources in 
Study Area 5 along San Mateo Drive and North Ellsworth Avenue, 
especially in the southern end of the study area closest to Downtown. 
These are designated Residential Medium in Alternatives A and B and 
a mix of Residential Medium, Residential High, and Mixed-Use High in 
Alternative C. In Study Area 5, Alternative C would be most likely to lead 
to redevelopment on or next to the site of existing historic buildings.  
Farther south in Study Area 3, the Historic Building Survey identifies a 
cluster of historic buildings on the northwest corner of 25th Avenue and 
El Camino Real (Cobani, Wes Liquors, and the Goodwill). These are 
designated as Mixed-Use Low in Alternative A and as Mixed-Use 
Medium in both Alternatives B and C. Because they would allow more 
intensive new development, both Alternatives B and C are more likely 
than A to impact the historic buildings in Study Area 3.  
 
 
218 of 509

--- page 219 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
67 
POLICY CONSIDERATIONS 
The Housing Element currently underway will be required to include a 
variety of policies and programs to demonstrate that the City can 
provide housing for all income levels. In addition, the General Plan 
Update could consider various policies and actions related to urban 
form, historic resources, and jobs-housing balance. Examples include: 
– 
Considering natural topography and the design of new 
development.  
– 
Requirements for preservation or replacement of mature trees 
and robust new landscaping as part of new development.  
– 
Pursuing new sources of funding for historic preservation.  
– 
Creating incentives to preserve historic and cultural resources.  
– 
Creating objective design standards for development within 
historic districts or adjacent to historic structures and/or 
culturally important sites to maintain the historic character of 
these resources. 
– 
Encouraging uses that provide job opportunities for City 
residents. 
5.2 
TRAFFIC AND MULTIMODAL 
CIRCULATION 
MULTIMODAL NETWORK 
ANALYSIS METHODOLOGY 
To provide a comparative analysis of three circulation and three land 
use alternatives, the multimodal analysis used multiple evaluation 
metrics for each mode and summed up the scores to identify 
performance across alternatives. Access to the bicycle and transit 
network, defined as people living or working in locations with access to 
each modal network, was used to compare circulation alternatives with 
land use alternatives (LUA). Access to the pedestrian network cannot 
be analyzed directly since there is no “walkshed” for the pedestrian 
network that can be linked to land use in the same way that exists for 
transit. Therefore, the evaluation of the pedestrian network for each 
Circulation Alternative does not measure a significant distinction 
between LUAs. The pedestrian analysis focuses on evaluating network 
coverage as well as changes to Study Area 4, San Mateo’s Downtown, 
where the Circulation Alternative includes various projects intended to 
benefit the Downtown as a local and regional destination regardless of 
changes to land use.  
In addition, please refer to the discussion of pedestrian and bicycle 
safety as an aspect of equity and public health in Section 5.6. 
1. PEDESTRIAN NETWORK METHODOLOGY 
The Pedestrian Master Plan (2012), specifically its pedestrian greenway 
network, are included in all three alternatives, limiting the amount of 
variation for citywide pedestrian projects in the General Plan Update 
Circulation Alternatives. The future pedestrian network analysis 
depends on the calculation of several metrics to estimate both network 
coverage and quality, using through proxies such as public realm, 
safety, and tree coverage. The following metrics were developed to 
evaluate the pedestrian network: 
– 
Increase in Sidewalk Coverage: Calculated a ‘maximum’ 
possible from existing street lengths and compared to existing 
sidewalks plus alternatives for both study areas and the entire 
city. 
– 
Increase in Public Realm: Measured percent of street length 
within SA 4 (Downtown) receiving traffic calming, place making, 
pedestrianization, and other public realm improvements. 
– 
Safety Improvements: Identified areas with historic pedestrian-
involved injury collisions that have occurred from 2015-2017 and 
overlayed with circulation alternatives. 
219 of 509

--- page 220 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
68 
– 
Increase in Tree Coverage: Estimate of area covered by tree 
shading (10-foot radius of each point in GIS) was combined with 
the greenway corridor network from the Pedestrian Master Plan. 
The output was the same citywide for all alternatives since they 
all include the greenway corridors. Calculated changes in SA 4 
(Downtown) are a result of individual projects in Alternatives A 
and C. 
2. BICYCLE NETWORK METHODOLOGY 
The recently adopted Bicycle Master Plan (2020) provides a 
comprehensive network for San Mateo, limiting the amount of variation 
for bicycle projects in the General Plan Update Circulation Alternatives. 
The future bicycle network evaluation looked at both coverage as well 
as access to bicycle facilities between the different land use changes. 
The following metrics were developed for evaluating the bicycle 
network: 
– 
Increased Bike Facility Coverage: Calculated a ‘maximum’ 
possible bike facility mileage from existing street lengths and 
compared to existing bike facilities of all facility classes plus 
alternatives for the entire city. 
– 
Increased Protected Bike Facility Coverage: Calculated the 
percent of the total bike network that is protected by comparing 
existing total bike network plus future bike network with existing 
protected bike facilities of all classes plus alternatives for the 
entire city. 
– 
Increased Bike Facility Access for Residents: Calculated a 
bike access area by buffering all existing and future bike facilities 
by an 1/8 of a mile. An eighth of a mile was chosen because it 
represents approximately half a block. This was overlayed with 
existing and future population for all land use alternatives to 
estimate the number of residents served by the network.  
– 
Increased Bike Facility Access to jobs: Calculated a bike 
access area by buffering all existing and future bike facilities by 
an 1/8 of a mile. This was overlayed with existing and future 
employment for all land use alternatives to estimate the number 
of jobs served by the network. 
– 
Increased Protected Bike Facility Access for Residents: 
Calculated a protected bike access area by buffering all existing 
and future protected bike facilities by an 1/8 of a mile. This was 
overlayed with existing and future population for all land use 
alternatives to estimate the number of residents served by the 
network. 
– 
Increased Protected Bike Facility Access for Employees: 
Calculated a protected bike access area by buffering all existing 
and future protected bike facilities by an 1/8 of a mile. This was 
overlayed with existing and future employment for all land use 
alternatives to estimate the number of jobs served by the 
network. 
3. TRANSIT NETWORK METHODOLOGY 
Transit service was evaluated based on coverage of the entire network 
as well as the frequent network. The frequent transit network is made up 
of bus lines with 15-minute frequencies or less as well as Caltrain. The 
following metrics were developed for evaluating the transit network: 
– 
Transit Coverage for Residents: Buffered stops in the transit 
network with pre-COVID service and with each circulation 
alternative by ¼ mile to identify existing and future transit service 
coverage. This was overlayed with existing and future population 
for all land use alternatives to estimate the number of residents 
served by the network.  
– 
Transit Coverage to Jobs: Buffered stops in the transit network 
with pre-COVID service and with each circulation alternative by 
¼ mile to identify existing and future transit service coverage. 
This was overlayed with existing and future employment for all 
220 of 509

--- page 221 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
69 
land use alternatives to estimate the number of jobs served by 
the network. 
– 
Frequent Transit Access for Residents: Buffered frequent stops 
(15 minutes or better + Caltrain) in the transit network with pre-
COVID service and with each circulation alternative by 1/4 mile 
to identify existing and future transit service coverage. This was 
overlayed with existing and future population for all land use 
alternatives to estimate the number of residents served by the 
network. 
– 
Frequent Transit Access to Jobs: Buffered frequent stops (15 
minutes or better + Caltrain) in the transit network with pre-
COVID service and with each circulation alternative by 1/4 mile 
to identify existing and future transit service coverage. This was 
overlayed with existing and future employment for all land use 
alternatives to estimate the number of jobs served by the 
network. 
4. PEDESTRIAN NETWORK EVALUATION 
Table 8 presents the comparative analysis of the circulation alternatives 
for the pedestrian network. Each row has a possible high score of three 
(+++) and low score of one (+). Each analysis shows the relative 
difference between each alternative. Where the score is the same, there 
is no significant difference between the alternatives. Alternative C 
scored the highest because the downtown traffic calming, and public 
realm improvement included in the superblock approach would provide 
the most pedestrian benefits. Alternative B scored the lowest since there 
are the fewest pedestrian improvements in that alternative. 
Table 8 
Pedestrian Network Evaluation 
Pedestrian Improvements 
Circulation 
Alternative A 
Circulation 
Alternative B 
Circulation 
Alternative C 
Increase in Sidewalk 
Coverage - Study Areas 
+++ 
+ 
+++ 
Increase in Sidewalk 
Coverage - Citywide 
++ 
+ 
++ 
Safety Improvements 
++ 
+ 
+++ 
Public Realm Improvements - 
Downtown (SA 4) 
++ 
+ 
+++ 
Tree Coverage Increase - 
Citywide 
++ 
++ 
++ 
Tree Coverage Increase - 
Downtown (SA 4) 
+++ 
+ 
+++ 
Pedestrian Score Total 
14/18 
7/18 
16/18 
 
5. BICYCLE EVALUATION 
Table 9 presents the comparative analysis of the circulation alternatives 
for the bicycle network. Each row has a possible high score of three 
(+++) and low score of one (+). Each analysis shows the relative 
difference between each alternative. Where the score is the same, there 
is no significant difference between the alternatives. Alternatives A and 
C scored the highest because they include bicycle and public realm 
improvements on El Camino Real that are not included in Alternative B. 
Given the high level of bicycle coverage, particularly in the study areas 
where most growth is planned, there were no significant distinctions 
between the land use alternatives. 
221 of 509

--- page 222 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
70 
6. TRANSIT EVALUATION 
Table 10 presents the comparative analysis of the circulation 
alternatives for the transit network. Each row has a possible high score 
of three (+++) and low score of one (+). Each analysis shows the 
relative difference between each alternative. Where the score is the 
same, there is no significant difference between the alternatives. 
Alternatives B and C scored the highest because they include increased 
transit coverage from a new east-west 
transit connect or 
microtransit/on-demand shuttle as well as improved transit service on 
El Camino Real. Land Use Alternative C, which places the highest 
numbers of new residents near frequent transit, had a higher percent or 
residents with access to frequent transit than the other land use 
alternatives.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9 
Bicycle Network Evaluation 
Bicycle Improvements 
Circulation Alternative A 
Circulation Alternative B 
Circulation Alternative C 
LU A 
LU B 
LU C 
LU A 
LU B 
LU C 
LU A 
LU B 
LU C 
Bike Facility Coverage 
+++ 
+++ 
+++ 
Protected Bike Facility 
Coverage 
+++ 
++ 
+++ 
Bike Facility Access for 
Residents  
+++ 
+++ 
+++ 
+++ 
+++ 
+++ 
+++ 
+++ 
+++ 
Bike Facility Access to Jobs 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
Protected Bike Facility Access 
for Residents 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
Protected Bike Facility Access 
to Jobs 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
Biking Score Total 
15/18 
14/18 
15/18 
 
 
222 of 509

--- page 223 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
71 
Table 10 
Transit Network Evaluation 
Transit Improvement 
Circulation Alternative A 
Circulation Alternative B 
Circulation Alternative C 
LU A 
LU B 
LU C 
LU A 
LU B 
LU C 
LU A 
LU B 
LU C 
Transit Access for Residents 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
+++ 
++ 
++ 
+++ 
Transit Access to Jobs 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
Frequent Transit Access for 
Residents 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
++ 
Frequent Transit Access to Jobs 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
Transit Score Total 
7/12 
7/12 
7/12 
7/12 
7/12 
8/12 
7/12 
7/12 
8/12 
TRAFFIC ANALYSIS 
METHODOLOGY 
This section describes the analysis of the circulation system in context 
of the proposed land use and circulation alternatives. The General Plan 
team used the countywide traffic model to project how the land use 
alternatives would affect Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT), mode shift, 
Vehicle-Hours Traveled (VHT), average speed, and Vehicle-Hours of 
Delay (VHD). A model allows planners to simulate potential future 
conditions.   The traffic modeling is based off the existing road network 
and proposed and existing bike facilities in the City Bicycle Master Plan 
as well as other proposed transit improvements and pedestrian 
facilities.  
The analysis of these delay based and mode shift metrics pairs each 
land use alternative with Circulation Alternative C. The performance of 
each land use alternative in context of these metrics is then compared 
to each land use alternative and to existing conditions (2019). Therefore, 
all tables in this section identify the Land Use Alternatives A, B or C 
matched with Circulation Alternative C. The General Plan team chose to 
model the land use alternatives against Circulation Alternative C 
because it represents an amalgamation of the proposed circulation 
improvements in all the circulation alternatives.   
VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED (VMT) 
A common indicator used to quantify the amount of motor vehicle use 
is Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT). VMT represents the total number of 
miles driven per day by persons traveling to and from a defined area. 
VMT can include the total VMT for all San Mateo travel, which is a useful 
comparative evaluation metric for the general plan, or it can include VMT 
per person (capita) and VMT per employee that is required for CEQA 
environmental analysis.  
Many factors affect VMT, including the average distance people drive to 
work, school, and shopping, as well as the proportion of trips that are 
made by non-automobile modes. Areas that have a diverse land use 
mix and facilities for non-automobile modes, including transit, walking, 
and biking, tend to generate lower VMT than auto-oriented suburban 
areas where land uses are typically segregated. Further, cities and 
regions where the jobs/housing ratio is balanced generate a lower VMT 
than areas where most residents commute long distances to work. 
From an environmental perspective, development that generates less 
223 of 509

--- page 224 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
72 
per capita VMT reflects less auto usage, and correspondingly, lower fuel 
consumption and production of GHG emissions. 
In California, the use of VMT instead of delay-based metrics (like Level 
of Service (LOS)) to assess transportation-related environmental 
impacts has been adopted as part of updates to California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).[1] As a result, transportation-related 
environmental impacts are now based on the per capita miles of vehicle 
travel associated with a project instead of the project’s effects on local 
traffic congestion. VMT allows for an analysis of a project’s impact to be 
reviewed on a broader regional scale rather than only in the vicinity of 
the proposed project, allowing for a better understanding of the full 
extent of a project’s transportation-related impact. It should be noted 
that SB 743 pertains to CEQA only and local jurisdictions are still 
permitted to use other metrics, such as LOS, to analyze the effects on 
a project on the local transportation network for other planning purposes 
outside the scope of CEQA. Therefore, since travel occurs across cities 
and counties, VMT was evaluated at three levels - citywide, San Mateo 
Countywide, and for the larger Bay Area region. 
As shown in Table 11, although Land Use Alternative A would result in 
the lowest total VMT, this alternative would have the highest citywide per 
capita VMT compared to Alternatives B and C. This is likely because 
Land Use Alternative A has a lower density land use pattern that would 
result in fewer housing units near transit. Conversely, Land Use 
Alternative C would generate the most total VMT, but would have the 
lowest citywide per capita VMT compared to Land Use Alternatives A 
and B. Land Use Alternative C would result in a higher density land use 
pattern that would place more housing near transit, enabling more 
residents the option of commuting by bus or Caltrain. The results also 
indicate the land use alternatives would have lower VMT per capita in 
2040 compared to 2019. Since the land use alternatives would add 
more housing and jobs near transit and would also result in increased 
congestion in 2040, more people would choose to travel by transit, 
walking, and biking due to increased access to these modes and to 
avoid roadway congestion compared to 2019.  
As shown in Table 12, VMT per employee varies less among the land 
use alternatives than the VMT per capita since the number of 2040 
employees is similar among all three land use alternatives. Furthermore, 
as more residents are added in the City of San Mateo, particularly in 
Land Use Alternative C, this would result in lower VMT per employee 
compared to Land Use Alternatives A and B.  This is likely because Land 
Use Alternative C would provide the most new housing units, providing 
the greatest likelihood that San Mateo workers can find a place to live in 
San Mateo, resulting in less net out-commuting and lower commute trip 
lengths. 
Table 11 
2040 Residential Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) –  
VMT per Capita 
Scenario 
City 
County 
Region 
Total 
VMT 
VMT/ 
Capita 
Total  
VMT 
VMT/ 
Capita 
Total  
VMT 
VMT/ 
Capita 
2019 
2,915,599 
16.5 
19,178,787 
15.9 
176,872,069 
15.3 
Alternative 
A 
3,314,113 
14.5 
22,901,378 
15.2 
239,122,502 
16.3 
Alternative 
B 
3,430,467 
14.4 
23,029,242 
15.2 
239,677,063 
16.3 
Alternative 
C 
3,569,586 
14.3 
23,148,970 
15.2 
238,539,410 
16.2 
Note: 2019 County VMT per capita is higher than the regional VMT likely because San 
Mateo County has longer trip lengths compared to the San Francisco Bay Area region 
which includes denser urban areas like Sa n Francisco and Oakland.  As San Mateo 
County increases in density over the next 20 years, the model projects that per capita 
VMT will reduce countywide. 
 
224 of 509

--- page 225 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
73 
Table 12 
2040 Employment Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) – VMT per Job 
Scenario 
City 
County 
Region 
Total VMT 
VMT/Employee 
Total VMT 
VMT/Employee 
Total VMT 
VMT/Employee 
2019 
2,915,599 
16.9 
19,178,787 
18.0 
176,872,069 
17.2 
Alternative A 
3,314,113 
15.5 
22,901,378 
18.1 
239,122,502 
17.3 
Alternative B 
3,430,467 
15.3 
23,029,242 
18.0 
239,677,063 
17.3 
Alternative C 
3,569,586 
15.0 
23,148,970 
17.9 
238,539,410 
17.2 
1 
The purpose of CEQA is to disclose potential environmental impacts of a proposed project and identify ways to avoid or reduce  environmental damage through feasible mitigation 
or project alternatives, based on specific criteria according to an environmental checklist. VMT is one of several transportatio n-related criteria used in CEQA’s environmental checklist. 
 
VEHICLE-HOURS TRAVELED (VHT) 
The General Plan team used the model to estimate vehicle hours of 
travel (VHT) for 2019 and the land use alternatives in 2040. This metric 
is computed for all roadway travel to and from and within San Mateo by 
summing all daily vehicle travel multiplied by travel time and delay for 
four time periods of the day: two peak hours, midday, and night.  Similar 
to how VMT measures the number of vehicle miles or the distance driven 
to and from, and within San Mateo, VHT is a metric that represents the 
total number of vehicle hours driven per day by persons traveling to, 
from and within San Mateo. Also similar to VMT, there are many factors 
that affect VHT, including the amount of travel by automobiles during 
peak commute periods when driving takes longer due to congestion or 
when there is an imbalance of housing and jobs requiring more and 
longer commutes.  Therefore, a VHT measure is another way of 
describing how travel times are affected by changes in land use and 
density. Increasing VHT may also suggest increasing economic activity 
as more people travel to San Mateo to shop, dine, and work. Increased 
VHT could also suggest there is insufficient transit, pedestrian, and 
bicycle infrastructure to enable people to choose not to drive. While total 
VHT may increase with increased housing and jobs, VHT per capita may 
be lower if housing and jobs are located near transit and pedestrian and 
bicycle infrastructure.  
As shown in Table 13, VHT is projected to increase from 2019 to 2040. 
The VHT analysis demonstrates that locating more housing and jobs 
near transit and non-motorized infrastructure, as in Land Use 
Alternatives B and C, could contribute to slower growth in VHT per 
service population (per capita plus employee). While Land Use 
Alternative A would produce the lowest total VHT since it has the lowest 
land use density, it would have the highest citywide VHT per service 
population compared to Land Use Alternatives B and C. On a per 
service population basis, VHT within San Mateo is lowest under Land 
Use Alternative C, which has the highest land use densities. 
Table 13 
2040 Vehicle Hours Traveled (VHT) 
Scenario 
VHT 
Total VHT 
VHT/Service Pop 
Service Population 
2019 
79,137 
0.45 
174,992 
Alternative A 
130,817 
0.59 
222,388 
Alternative B 
135,379 
0.58 
233,335 
Alternative C 
135,143 
0.55 
245,253 
 
 
225 of 509

--- page 226 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
74 
AVERAGE SPEED 
The average speed of the roadway system is a comparative indicator of 
how the road network responds to changing land use density, mode 
shift and traffic congestion. This metric represents the average daily 24-
hour and peak hour speeds on all key roadway segments in San Mateo 
that are represented in the City travel model.    
Table 14 provides average systemwide daily and peak hour speeds for 
all roads in San Mateo. As expected, average daily and peak hour traffic 
speeds decrease between 2019 and 2040 for all land use alternatives 
due to increasing land use densities resulting in more congestion. Land 
Use Alternative A would have the highest average speeds when 
compared to Land Use Alternatives B and C by a small margin. This is 
because Land Use Alternative A would add the fewest new residents. 
However, this trend flattens out with Land Use Alternative C as the 
jobs/housing ratio is more balanced resulting in lower net out-
commuting from San Mateo.  
Table 14 
2040 Average Speeds 
Scenario 
Average Speed (MPH) 
Daily 
AM Peak Hour 
PM Peak Hour 
2019 
34.1 
23.3 
23.1 
Alternative A 
26.4 
10.8 
10.4 
Alternative B 
25.8 
10.2 
10.1 
Alternative C 
25.9 
10.3 
10.0 
 
VEHICLE-HOURS OF DELAY (VHD) 
Similar to VHT, VHD is a systemwide metric that represents the total 
amount of time motorists throughout the city are delayed in traffic or 
waiting at intersections during peak congestion compared to ideal off-
peak travel. VHD is a measure that compares the amount of time a driver 
is delayed during their trip between 2019 and between each 2040 land 
use alternative.  
Usually, VHD increases with added land use creating additional 
congestion. As land uses intensify in the alternatives, congestion and 
delay would be expected to increase from Land Use Alternative A to 
Land Use Alternative C. However, as shown in Table 15, the rate of VHD 
does slow down as the higher density uses in Land Use Alternative C 
creates a better housing/jobs balance, shorter trip lengths, and the 
transportation system provides options for non-auto travel compared to 
Land Use Alternative B.   
VHD per service population is slightly lower under Land Use Alternative 
C than it is under A or B. This is likely because Alternative C locates 
more new homes closer to transit, so trips between home, work, and/or 
services are shorter under Land Use Alternative C. This could also 
reflect that people would be more likely to choose to take transit, walk 
or bike under Land Use Alternative C both because transit is a feasible 
commute option and to avoid local traffic congestion.   
Table 15 
2040 Vehicle Hours of Delay (VHD) 
Scenario 
VHD 
Total VHD 
VHD/ 
Service Pop 
Service  
Population 
2019 
15,633 
0.09 
174,992 
Alternative A 
45,640 
0.21 
222,388 
Alternative B 
48,852 
0.21 
233,335 
Alternative C 
48,012 
0.20 
245,253 
226 of 509

--- page 227 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
75 
POLICY CONSIDERATIONS 
The General Plan Update could consider various policies and actions 
related to circulation and traffic, such as:  
– 
Developing and adopting a Complete Streets Plan to 
accommodate green infrastructure, pedestrians, cyclists, 
drivers, and all users on streets that are safe, comfortable, and 
efficient.  
– 
Collecting appropriate development impact fees to fund 
transportation improvements that help mitigate impacts on the 
circulation network. 
– 
Requiring new and existing developments to 
include 
transportation demand management strategies and trip 
reduction targets and monitoring. 
– 
Establishing 
the 
policy 
framework 
and 
infrastructure 
improvements necessary to support emerging transportation 
technologies. 
– 
Working 
with 
regional 
partners 
to 
identify 
and 
fund 
transportation demand management strategies.  
– 
Requiring new development to make specific types of bicycle, 
pedestrian, and roadway improvement to ensure the safety of all 
users.  
– 
Conducting safety, education, and awareness efforts for 
bicyclists, pedestrians, and drivers. 
– Utilizing data on activity of pedestrians and bicyclists to 
understand where the heaviest use and safety needs are and to 
prioritize improvement projects.  
5.3 
COMMUNITY SERVICES 
How land is developed can influence the efficiency and cost associated 
with providing community services; therefore, it is important to consider 
how the alternatives would impact those services when deciding on a 
Preferred Scenario. For example, the alternatives could create a 
demand for additional police officers, fire fighters, expanded school 
facilities, or new parkland. On the other hand, the city might already 
have sufficient capacity to meet the estimated demand for services 
under all or any of the alternatives. This section describes how the 
alternatives affect the city’s police and fire protection services, public 
schools, parks and recreational facilities, and libraries, based on 
available data from each service provider.  
POLICE 
Police services in the City of San Mateo are provided by the San Mateo 
Police Department (SMPD). SMPD’s mission is to provide safe streets, 
security in schools and in homes, success of the city’s businesses, and 
services to the members of the community. SMPD is also committed to 
diversity and providing excellent public service.  
Overall, the population growth under all alternatives would require a 
corresponding need for additional sworn and professional police staff. 
According to the City’s Police Chief, to serve the population increase in 
all alternatives, SMPD would need to attract and provide space for new 
staff, add space and staff to handle increases in call volume, and 
potentially identify a new substation location within Study Areas 6 and/or 
10, which are the most distant from central San Mateo.  
Under all alternatives, new tall buildings would need to install public 
safety radio and emergency responder radio boosters to ensure 
communication with SMPD.  
Alternative A has the least High density-designated uses compared to 
Alternatives B and C, which means it would have the least impact require 
the fewest changes to current SMPD communication and policing 
services. Alternative C shows the most areas with the highest intensities 
227 of 509

--- page 228 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
76 
(density and building height) including Mixed-Use High uses along El 
Camino Real around the Hillsdale station (Study Area 3) and in 
Downtown (Study Area 4) with Residential High uses along Railroad 
Avenue and Mixed-Use High uses between Baldwin Avenue and 5th 
Avenue. Therefore, Alternative C would pose require the greatest 
potential impact changes to current communication and police services 
due to the number of buildings over 8 stories.  
FIRE 
Fire services in the City of San Mateo are provided by the San Mateo 
Consolidated Fire Department (SMCFD). On January 13, 2019, the fire 
departments of San Mateo, Belmont, and Foster joined together to form 
SMCFD which is a joints powers authority that provides fire services to 
all three cities.  
All new development in San Mateo is required to conform with California 
Building Code standards for fire-resistant building materials, sprinklers, 
and defensible space.   
Under all alternatives, SMCFD would need to provide fire services in 
higher density areas. While new construction is subject to much more 
rigorous fire and life safety requirements than older existing buildings, 
according to the City’s Fire Marshal, high density buildings can also 
increase demand for fire emergency services and put pressure on the 
fire department’s resources. SMCFD would need to add fire staffing in 
areas with higher density uses.  
Alternative A has the least amount of high density-designated uses 
compared to Alternatives B and C, which means it would require the 
fewest changes to SMCFD’s current fire and emergency response 
services. Alternative C has the most areas designated for higher density 
uses and would demand some changes in fire and emergency 
response services when considering the density of the buildings.  
SMCFD would also be responsible for responding to wildfires in San 
Mateo. According to the City’s Fire Marshal, State maps are expected 
to increase the hazard level in certain areas in San Mateo from a high 
hazard wildland fire severity zone to a very high hazard severity zone. 
The wildland fire hazard discussion in Section 5.5 of this evaluation is 
based on the data currently available.  
EMERGENCY ACCESS  
This section describes how the draft alternatives could affect police and 
fire emergency access. 
POLICE ACCESS 
The most accessible Study Areas for SMPD are Study Areas 1, 2, 3, 4, 
and 5 due to existing infrastructure and transportation routes. In Study 
Areas 1 and 2, Alternative B would result in the most net new number of 
homes when compared to Alternative A and C. In Study Area 3, 4, and 
5, Alternative C would result in the most net new number of homes when 
compared to Alternative A and B. 
Study Areas 7, 8, and 9 are currently difficult to access or pass through 
especially during commute conditions but servicing those areas could 
be accomplished with improvements to access routes. In Study Area 7, 
Alternative C would result in the most net new number of homes when 
compared to Alternative A and B. In Study Areas 8 and 9, Alternative B 
would result in the most net new number of homes when compared to 
Alternative A and C.  
Study Areas 6 and 10 are the hardest to access given the limited routes 
of access to those areas from the remainder of the city. Accessing Study 
Area 6 is challenging to access since this area is isolated from close 
mutual aid partners and would require significant infrastructure 
improvements, including upgrades to the radio signals. In Study Area 6, 
Alternative C would result in the most net new number of homes when 
compared to Alternative A and B. In contrast, access to Study Area 10 
is a bit more readily available due to a mutual aid agreement with Foster 
City unless a catastrophic event severs the bridges crossing the lagoon 
228 of 509

--- page 229 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
77 
cutting that portion off from the city. All alternatives in Study Area 10 
would result in the same number of net new homes.  
FIRE ACCESS 
Traffic within higher density corridors could pose a challenge for fire 
access, especially if these areas have on-street parklets that would limit 
fire access to the building. Increased traffic congestion as a result of 
development under the alternatives would lower SMCFD’s response 
time. Areas at the edge of the city with medium and high-density 
development, such as Study Area 10, would make emergency response 
more challenging if there is constrained transportation infrastructure, so 
new development should be required to install traffic preemption 
devices on existing or new traffic signals to improve access for SMCFD 
vehicles.   
CIRCULATION ALTERNATIVE C 
In addition, the idea in Circulation Alternative C of a pedestrian focused, 
car-light space downtown modeled on Barcelona’s “superblocks” 
would require careful planning to maintain emergency access for first 
responders.   
PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
There are 19 public elementary, middle, and high schools in San Mateo. 
These schools are managed by school districts, not by the City. Figure 
23 shows the locations of the schools in San Mateo. There are two 
school districts within the City of San Mateo, the San Mateo-Foster City 
School District (SMFCSD) and the San Mateo Union High School District 
(SMUHSD). Table 16 shows a complete list of schools by its respective 
school district and the current enrollment of each school, as well as its 
remaining capacity.  
Table 16 
2021-2022 Enrollment and Capacity for Schools in 
San Mateo 
 
Capacity 
Enrollment 
Remaining 
Capacity 
San Mateo-Foster City School District 
Baywood Elementary School  
670 
541 
129 
Beresford Elementary School  
300 
253 
47 
College Park Elementary School  
536 
436 
100 
Fiesta Gardens Elementary School  
524 
429 
95 
George Hall Elementary School  
544 
418 
126 
Highlands Elementary School  
592 
428 
164 
Laurel Elementary School  
470 
551 
-81 
Lead Elementary School  
574 
385 
189 
Meadow Heights Elementary School  
358 
282 
76 
San Mateo Park Elementary School  
494 
327 
167 
Sunnybrae Elementary School  
632 
372 
260 
Bayside Academy - Steam | Stem  
720 
830 
-110 
North Shoreview Montessori School  
394 
259 
135 
Parkside Montessori School  
564 
285 
279 
Abbott Middle School  
930 
752 
178 
Borel Middle School  
1170 
981 
189 
San Mateo Union High School District 
San Mateo High School  
1,941 
1,625 
316 
Hillsdale High School  
1,851 
1,610 
241 
Aragon High School  
2,002 
1,750 
252 
Source: San Mateo-Foster City School District, 2021 
229 of 509

--- page 230 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
78 
Figure 23. 
Schools 
230 of 509

--- page 231 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
79 
Table 17 shows the number of net new students for each alternative 
based on the San Mateo-Foster City School District’s and the San 
Mateo Union High School District’s student generation rate. The number 
of new units proposed for all alternatives are primarily multifamily units, 
with some accessory dwelling units (ADUs) in each alternative, so this 
analysis uses the SMFCSD student generation rate of .04 for apartments 
and the SMUHSD student generation rate of 0.04 students for 
apartments and condos. Since both school districts do not have a 
student generation rate for ADUs, we used the same .04 student 
generation rate for ADUs as a conservative estimate.  
The schools within the San Mateo-Foster City School District currently 
have a remaining capacity of 1,943 students. This means the school 
district could accommodate additional students from the new 
population in all alternatives. Although, it is difficult to predict how the 
enrollment capacity will change from year to year. There is an existing 
school in the San Mateo-Foster City School District that is currently 
closed and in need of improvements. Once the school is modernized, it 
could provide space for 510 additional students. The San Mateo-Foster 
City School District is in the process of adding specialized spaces, such 
as multi-purpose rooms and counselor offices. On July 30, 2020, the 
district’s board of trustees adopted the Facilities Master Plan for the 
New Decade which identifies needs across all schools and provides 
direction for future facility work. According to the Director of Facilities 
and Construction, there are approximately $900M+ in identified facility 
improvements needs and the school district currently has $409M in local 
bonds.  
The existing high schools within the San Mateo Union High School 
District currently have an accumulative remaining student capacity of 
809. This means the school district could accommodate additional new 
students from the new population in Alternative A and B, although it is 
difficult to predict how the enrollment capacity will change from year to 
year. The net new students for Alternative C would exceed the remaining 
student capacity of 809. The San Mateo Union High School District 
currently has no plans to build new facilities and there is no lack of 
funding or deficiencies that pertain to any of the existing facilities. To 
accommodate new students generated by the housing development 
under Alternative C, the San Mateo Union High School District would 
need to expand its facilities. This could happen by expanding student 
capacity at existing sites or establishing a new school site. Identifying 
new school sites is challenging because of the low supply and high cost 
of land available for development in the city. However, the San Mateo 
Union High School District will continue to collect school impact fees 
from new housing development, as discussed below. . The school 
impact fees are described further below.  
Table 17 
New Students Under Each Alternative  
  
Alternative A  
(Net New) 
Alternative B 
(Net New) 
Alternative C 
(Net New) 
Net New Homes 
11,810 
16,070 
21,080 
Number of New Students 
SMFCD (0.04 students per 
home) 
472 
643 
843 
Number of New Students 
SMUHSD (0.04 students per 
home) 1 
472 
643 
843 
Source: San Mateo-Foster City School District, Projected Enrollments San Mateo-Foster 
City School District, 2020, PlaceWorks, 2021 
1 SMUHSD’s student generation rate is based on projections for “mainly market-rate” 
apartment units and condos, as defined in the Projected Enrollments San Mateo-Foster 
City School District report.  
As shown by the above graph, Alternative C would result in the highest 
number of new students for both school districts when compared to 
Alternative A and B. Alternative A would result in the fewest new students 
for both school districts when compared to the other two alternatives. 
This is primarily due to the number of housing units estimated for each 
alternative. Alternative C has the most net new housing unit proposed 
while Alternative A has the least.  
231 of 509

--- page 232 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
80 
The San Mateo-Foster City School District and San Mateo Union High 
School District collect school impact fees, also known as developer 
impact fees, which are charged depending on the type of new 
development. These fees are used by each school district to construct 
the facilities that are needed as a result of new development. New 
development within the Study Areas would be required to pay school 
impact fees to the school districts.  
PARKS AND RECREATION 
Park land contributes significantly to quality of life in San Mateo. The City 
currently oversees more than 420 acres of parks and open space, from 
neighborhood mini parks to regional destinations like Seal Point as 
shown on Figure 24. Residents in San Mateo also have access to 
several recreation centers, a boating lagoon, two public swimming 
pools, and an 18-hole golf course. Figure 24 shows the location and 
walkability access of the parks within San Mateo. As shown by the 
figure, most residences within the study areas are within a quarter to 
half-mile walking distance from a park. Access to parks within each 
study area is described in the Access to Parks and Open Space section 
in Section 5.6. In addition to parks, the City’s parks and recreation 
services offers opportunities for people of all ages to participate in 
community activities, including youth and family aquatics, children 
summer camps, adult fitness programs, youth programs for teens, and 
interactive classes for older adults and seniors. The City also hosts 
special 
community 
events 
throughout 
the 
year, 
including 
Eggstravaganza, the Holiday Festival of Dance, National Night Out, and 
the Central Park Music Series. 
Just like police and fire stations and schools, it’s important for cities to 
provide sufficient green space for residents. The current General Plan 
2030 sets a goal of providing six acres of parkland per 1,000 people to 
ensure community members have sufficient parks and open space. In 
addition to the General Plan, the City has developed other park planning 
documents that help support efforts to provide parks and recreational 
facilities in the city. Several of the park planning documents are listed 
below; however, this is not a comprehensive list of all park plans that 
exist in the city:    
– 
Central Park Master Plan 
– 
Recreation Facilities Strategic Plan  
– 
Shoreline Parks Master Plan 
– 
Laurelwood/Sugarloaf Management Plan 
– 
Beresford Park Master Plan
232 of 509

--- page 233 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
81 
Figure 24. 
Parks and Park Walkability  
 
233 of 509

--- page 234 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
82 
As mentioned above, San Mateo currently has a goal of providing six 
acres of park land for every 1,000 residents. Including County-owned 
Coyote Point, the City currently provides 5.35 acres of park land per 
1,000 residents. This acreage will rise slightly when the 1.1-acre Borel 
Park is constructed which will include amenities such as a playground, 
oak glades, and grass lawns. Although the City’s public park lands do 
not currently meet the park land goal, it will be important that future 
development does not further exacerbate the existing deficiency. One 
obstacle to providing additional parkland is the lack of vacant land that 
could accommodate large new park sites in the city.  
According to the Director of the Parks and Recreation Department, there 
is a need to upgrade a number of parks, recreational facilities and aging 
playgrounds throughout the city. There are a few upgrades planned in 
the immediate future for East Hillsdale Park, and future upgrades are 
planned for Sunnybrae Park, Shoreview Park, and King Park. However, 
there is a lack of funding for park improvements which have only been 
funded through park in-lieu fees at this time. The most critical 
infrastructure priority is to ensure that the City’s aging system of 
recreation centers and pools is updated and enhanced to meet the 
goals of safety, accessibility and equity, and meet the diverse 
recreational and programmatic needs of the community.   
The City Council recently reviewed all of the city’s impact fees and 
expressed support for expanding park in-lieu fees to commercial 
development as well as residential with the goal of enhancing revenue. 
Recent residential development has contributed to the City’s park in-lieu 
fees; however, these fees have been used to upgrade existing 
recreational park facilities and are not being used to increase park 
acreage.   
Below is an analysis of how the alternatives would impact parks and 
recreational facilities:   
– 
Since the current park acreage in the city is already deficient, all 
alternatives would further exacerbate the park land deficiency 
since each alternative introduces new population that would 
require additional park land. Therefore, all three land use 
alternatives would need to provide additional publicly owned 
park land.  Alternative A proposes the lowest number of new 
residents; however, the park land deficiency would still worsen 
under this alternative since it introduces new population. 
Alternative C would have the greatest impact on parks since it 
has the highest number of net new people.  
– 
In addition to park land demand, greater population growth 
would require more recreational facilities and expanded 
programs to meet the needs of the residents.  
The City of San Mateo’s Park and Recreation Department recently 
completed an update of the Central Park Master Plan (2018) that 
incorporates retention of the historic characters of Central Park and 
provides opportunities for new additions to improve community 
gathering and recreation spaces. Future development in Study Area 4 
under any alternative should support the goals of the Central Park 
Master Plan to create a pedestrian connection to downtown, increased 
space for flexible community use and events, and a greater emphasis 
on the park’s role as the City’s gathering place. 
PUBLICLY ACCESSIBLE PRIVATELY-OWNED OPEN 
SPACE 
The City of San Mateo’s Zoning Code establishes standards for private 
usable open space and common usable open space within residential 
and commercial areas. In residential areas, common open space are 
areas that can be accessed by all occupants within the residential 
complex; however, these areas are not accessible to the public. 
Common open space in commercial areas is an area that is accessible 
to the public. This area could be a plaza, square, court, or other urban 
234 of 509

--- page 235 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
83 
space which is at least 75 percent open to the sky and free from 
automotive traffic. Private open space areas in residential projects and 
commercial developments are reserved for the use of the dwelling unit 
occupants or employees/guest of the project only. Private open space 
areas are not accessible to the public.  
There are a number of existing open space areas in the City, including 
regional and community parks, neighborhood parks, and small mini 
parks. Developments within the City also provide publicly accessible 
open space areas. The Bay Meadows Phase I development provided 
approximately 4.6 acres of privately owned and maintained park space. 
Bay Meadows Phase II is currently in the process of being developed. 
Phase II of Bay Meadows includes approximately 15 acres of public 
park land and about 3 acres of publicly accessible open space that will 
be within walking distance from the Hillsdale station area, as outlined in 
the Hillsdale Station Area Plan.  
One obstacle to providing additional open space area is the lack of 
vacant land that could accommodate large new open space sites. 
Some of the Study Areas, such as Study Area 10 at Bridgepointe, have 
large parcels that may enable the clustering of buildings, leaving 
substantial room for a new park or new privately-owned open space that 
is accessible to the public. This idea is represented by the green P in 
the following Study Areas in all of the alternatives: Study Area 3, Study 
Area 4, Study Area 6, and Study Area 8.  
For areas like Study Area 4, Downtown, or Study Area 1, along El 
Camino Real, where most parcels are small, the General Plan Update 
will explore potential strategies to generate new privately maintained 
open spaces, parks, plazas, and other recreational facilities. The 
General Plan Update could help encourage incentives for developers to 
build publicly accessible open space areas within their projects. It 
should be noted that SMPD has expressed challenges with providing 
law enforcement service to existing privately-owned public open spaces 
since jurisdiction over these spaces is not always clear.  
Among all alternatives, Alternative A would result in the least demand 
for new publicly accessible open space area since it results in the lowest 
number of net new population. Because it has the lowest amount of new 
residential and mixed-use development, it would also offer fewer 
opportunities for larger projects that are more likely to include new 
publicly accessible open space.  Alternative C results in the highest 
demand for new open space area since it has the highest number of net 
new population; it would also allow more large projects that would be 
more likely to include new publicly accessible open space.  
LIBRARY 
The San Mateo Public Library consists of the Main Library and two 
branches, the Hillsdale Library and Marina Library. The library offers a 
vast collection of books and programs that are available for teens, 
adults, and children in the city. These programs include a writing 
groups, book discussion groups, crafts and makerspace events, music 
concerts, story times, and cultural events. The library also has rotating 
art exhibits at the Main Library and five special collections: 
Biotechnology Learning Center, the California Collection, Franklin 
Templeton Business Resource Center, Funding Information Network, 
and the Leon S. Benson Holocaust Studies Collection. The Main Library 
also incorporates sustainable practices and an energy efficient design.  
The City does not maintain a spatial ratio of square feet of library space 
per number of population as a service target but takes a holistic 
approach to assessing the viability of current or future library locations. 
There are currently no expansion plans for the library, but the San Mateo 
Public Library hopes to replace the Marina Library branch with a new or 
remodeled library in the future once a funding source has been 
identified and to add staffing at all three libraries.  
All alternatives would result in a higher population which means the San 
Mateo Public Library would need to consider if the current library 
locations will provide the sufficient space necessary to serve a higher 
number of residents for all three alternatives.  Among the three 
alternatives, Alternative C results in the highest population amount 
235 of 509

--- page 236 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
84 
adding about 53,507 new residents by 2040. Alternative A has the 
lowest number of new residents at 29,498, in addition to the existing 
population.  Since Alternative C adds the most new people, it would 
have the greatest impact on the San Mateo Public Library when 
compared to Alternative A and B.  
POLICY CONSIDERATIONS 
The General Plan Update should consider the following plans and policy 
directions on community services:  
– 
Planning for fire protection services and evacuation in Study 
Areas 6 and 10 and other areas of the City that are most 
challenging for SMFD to access and/or are subject to increased 
risk from wildfires.  
– 
Providing buffers around new research and development 
facilities to minimize risks of fire or explosion from hazardous 
materials and reduce impacts on adjacent sensitive uses.  
– 
Designing site plans, equipment, and landscaping that enable 
visibility and access for first responders.  
– 
Supporting close communication and collaboration with both 
local school districts on population projections and facilities 
planning, as well as issues such as transportation to and from 
school sites and needed infrastructure upgrades.  
– 
Increasing the number of parks and/or parkland acreage in the 
city and generating new privately maintained, publicly 
accessible open spaces, parks, plazas, and other recreational 
facilities.  
 
92020 Urban Water Management Plan, San Mateo, CA. (2020). California Water Service.  
– 
Upgrading and enhancing the aging system of recreation 
facilities and pools to ensure they meet or exceed safety, 
accessibility and health codes, facilitate the provision of desired 
recreation programs and services while conserving surrounding 
open space.  
– 
Supporting the library’s effort to enhance facilities, promoting 
libraries as welcoming places and resources for everyone, and 
providing resources that will help the library adapt to new 
technologies.  
5.4 
UTILITIES 
This section describes the potential impacts of the three land use 
alternatives to water supply, wastewater services, and stormwater 
services. 
WATER9 
This section analyzes the projected supply and demand for the impacts 
of projected growth of each alternative relating to water services. The 
City of San Mateo has two water providers: Cal Water’s Bayshore District 
covers much of San Carlos and San Mateo, including Study Areas 1 
through 9; and the Estero Municipal Improvement District (EMID) serves 
bayside portions of San Mateo, including Study Area 10, Bridgepointe.  
Cal Water’s current Urban Water Management Plan (UWMP) reflects the 
State’s recent amendment to the Water Quality Control Plan for the Bay-
Delta (Bay-Delta Plan), which decreased the percent of projected future 
flows that will be available for consumption by urban communities. 
Given these limitations, the current UWMP projects to have sufficient 
supplies to meet future demand within the service area that includes 
San Mateo for normal water supply years, but not for multiple dry year 
scenarios.  
236 of 509

--- page 237 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
85 
The UWMP was completed prior to San Mateo’s current General Plan 
Update effort and is based on ABAG’s Projections 2019, which do not 
reflect the current RHNA issued to the City by ABAG. In all of the 
alternatives, based on the projections in Cal Water’s UWMP, Cal Water 
would not have sufficient supply to meet the projected demand. This is 
primarily because all alternatives contemplate population increases that 
exceed the 2040 population projection used for Cal Water’s UWMP. 
Moreover, Cal Water’s population projection covers their service area as 
a whole (most of San Mateo and most of San Carlos) while the 
alternatives only focus in the 10 specific study areas. The alternatives 
do not account for growth outside of the study areas. Table 18 provides 
a summary of the population increase comparison. 
Table 18 
Projected Population Comparison (2020 Cal Water 
UWMP vs. Alternatives) 
Population 
Projection 
Source 
2020 
(Total) 
2025 (Net 
Increase 
From 
2020) 
2030 (Net 
Increase 
From 
2020) 
2035 (Net 
Increase 
From 
2020) 
2040 
(Net 
Increase 
From 
2020) 
2020 Cal 
Water UWMP 
(Entire 
Service 
Area*) 
137,486 
1,656 
4,652 
7,427 
10,316 
Alternative A 
- 
- 
- 
- 
24,577 
Alternative B 
- 
- 
- 
- 
35,338 
Alternative C 
- 
- 
- 
- 
48,586 
* Cal Water’s Service Area includes areas outside the Study Areas, including most of San 
Mateo and San Carlos. Source: California Water Service. 2020 Urban Water Management 
Plan 
In Table 15, average water usage per capita was used to estimate the 
projected Cal Water water usage for Study Areas 1 through 9 under 
each of the alternatives. These numbers were then compared with what 
Cal Water had computed per their projected demand forecasts for their 
service area in the Cal Water 2020 UWMP.  
To estimate the projected demand from the land use alternatives, a 
water consumption per capita number was developed based on the 
amount of water used from Cal Water in 2020 divided by the population 
of the service area. This equates to approximately 34,500 gallons per 
year or 94.5 gallons per day per capita for San Mateo. Note that this 
demand per capita figure does not account for future water 
conservation and efficiency improvements and is therefore likely an 
overestimate. Estimated water conservation savings are added in Table 
19. The increased demand due to the alternative growths was added to 
the baseline 2020 demand value of 14,563 acre-feet (ac-ft). 
Table 19 
Water Usage – Cal Water - Normal Year Projected 
Demand & Supply  
 
Alternative 
Growth 
Projected 
Demand + 
2020 Cal Water 
Demand (ac-ft) 
Cal Water 
Projected 
Supply  
2040 
Normal 
Year  
(ac-ft) 
Difference 
(ac-ft) 
Difference 
Including 
Estimated 
Water 
Conservation 
Savings by 
2040* 
(ac-ft) 
Alternative A 
17,165 
14,977 
(2,188) 
(821) 
Alternative B 
18,304 
14,977 
(3,327) 
(1,870) 
Alternative C 
19,706 
14,977 
(4,729) 
(3,159) 
*Water conservation savings were computed based off of conversion of UWMP total 
savings at 2040 to a savings per capita rate. This per capita rate is then multiplied by 
total population estimated per each alternative scenario. Estimated 2, 749 gallons savings 
per capita per year. 
Source: California Water Service. 2020 Urban Water Management Plan. 
237 of 509

--- page 238 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
86 
In dry years, the deficit between water supply and demand is greater 
than in normal years. Table 20 provides Cal Water projected supply for 
2040 single dry year. Multiple dry years results in an even greater supply 
deficit. 
Table 20 
Water Usage – Cal Water - Dry Year Projected 
Demand & Supply  
 
Alternative 
Growth 
Projected 
Demand + 
2020 Cal 
Water Demand  
(ac-ft) 
Cal Water 
Projected 
Supply 
2040 
Single 
Dry Year 
(ac-ft) 
Difference 
(ac-ft) 
Difference 
Including 
Estimated Water 
Conservation 
Savings by 2040 
(ac-ft)* 
Alternative A 
17,165 
9,676 
(7,489) 
(6,122) 
Alternative B 
18,304 
9,676 
(8,628) 
(7,170) 
Alternative C 
19,706 
9,676 
(10,030) 
(8,460) 
*Assumes same savings per capita used in Table 20 and does not reflect speculative 
water conservation measures that may be imposed under drought conditions. 
Source: California Water Service. 2020 Urban Water Management Plan. 
Although the current projection comparison shows that there is 
insufficient supply, the demand on the water supply per capita should 
decrease over time. According to the Cal Water UWMP, the 
implementation of new laws, ordinances and regulations, for example, 
requiring replacement of older water fixtures with more efficient fixtures, 
should help reduce demand per capita. In addition, recent research into 
regional water supply and capacity for future development has indicated 
that it is theoretically possible to offset water use from future residential 
and job growth by continuing to improve indoor and outdoor water use 
 
10 Laura Feinstein and Anne Thebo, Water for a Growing Bay Area: How the region can grow without increasing water demand, SPUR Regional Strategy, October 2021. Accessed online at 
https://www.spur.org/publications/spur-report/2021-10-21/water-growing-bay-area, October 21,2021.  
11 SFPUC, Alternative Water Supply Program, Quarterly Report, June 2021 , page 5.  
https://www.sfpuc.org/sites/default/files/programs/0_Alt%20Water%20Supply%20Planning%20Quarterly%20Report_June2021_FINAL.pdf, accessed online December 17, 2021. 
efficiency and by focusing on infill development in urbanized areas 
rather than developing raw land elsewhere in the Bay Area.10   
The UWMP is one tool in a larger system of water supply planning. For 
example, SFPUC’s ongoing  Alternative Water Supply Program is 
evaluating new water supply projects that will meet future water supply 
needs by looking beyond the traditional surface water and groundwater 
sources and considers “alternative” water supply options such as 
expanding surface water storage, groundwater banking, transfers, 
purified water (potable reuse), desalination and technological 
innovations and other tools that can increase supply or reduce demand 
in the future.11 Cal Water is also considering a range of possible 
approaches that include requiring net-zero demand increase from new 
development, further regulations on water use, and a suite of other 
demand mitigation measures to help respond to potentially reduced 
supplies due to the State’s adoption of the Bay-Delta Plan.  
Cal Water has indicated that they calibrate water supply closely to 
demand so as not to put ratepayers in the position of paying for supplies 
years or decades before they are actually needed. The next update of 
the UWMP, which will happen in 2025, will be created with reference to 
the projected development allowed under San Mateo’s updated 
General Plan 2040. The preferred scenario and updated General Plan 
will be an important input for Cal Water into ongoing future supply 
planning efforts.  
As the UWMP is updated in future years, this may become more 
apparent as new data is collected. However, based on current data, 
adequate water supply is a significant concern for any of the alternatives 
in Study Areas 1 through 9. Projected deficits are greatest under 
238 of 509

--- page 239 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
87 
Alternative C because this per capita calculation is based on residential 
population, and Alternative C would add the most population.  
A similar analysis was performed for study area number 10 of the 
alternatives based on the 2020 EMID UWMP.  EMID’s entire service area 
includes the entire boundary of Foster City and a small portion of San 
Mateo.  Table 21 shows the comparison between the projected 
population increase in the EMID UWMP and the alternative study. The 
population increase in Study Area 10 under the alternatives would be 
greater than the population increase EMID estimates for the whole 
service area in the 2020 UWMP. 
Table 21 
Projected Population Comparison (2020 EMID UWMP 
vs. Alternatives (Area 10)) 
Population 
Projection 
Source 
2020 
(Total) 
2025  
(Net 
Increase 
From 
2020) 
2030 
(Net 
Increase 
From 
2020) 
2035 
(Net 
Increase 
From 
2020) 
2040 
(Net 
Increase 
From 
2020) 
2010-2015 
EMID (Whole 
Service Area) 
36,516 
416 
1,086 
2,332 
3,591 
Alternative A 
(Area 10) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
4,921 
Alternative B 
(Area 10) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
4,921 
Alternative C 
(Area 10) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
4,921 
Source: Estero Municipal Improvement District. 2020 Urban Water Management Plan. 
Utilizing a similar demand per capita analysis that was used for the Cal 
Water analysis, water use in EMID averages about 118 gallons per 
capita. Table 22 shows the projected demand comparison. The 2020 
EMID demand shown is the water delivered in 2020, 5,882 ac-ft. 
 
Table 22 
Water 
Usage 
– 
EMID 
- 
Projected 
Demand 
Comparison  
 
Alternative 
Growth 
Projected 
Demand + 
2020 EMID 
Demand  
(ac-ft) 
EMID 
Demand 
Projection 
2040 Normal 
Year  
(ac-ft) 
Difference 
(ac-ft) 
Difference 
Including 
Estimated 
Water 
Conservation 
Savings by 
2040 
(ac-ft)* 
Alternative A  
(Area 10) 
6,663 
6,350 
313 
+661 
Alternative B  
(Area 10) 
6,663 
6,350 
313 
+661 
Alternative C 
(Area 10) 
6,663 
6,350 
313 
+661 
*Estimated water savings per capita of 6,383 gallons which includes both passive and 
active conservation per the UWMP. 
Source: Estero Municipal Improvement District. 2020 Urban Water Management Plan. 
The 2020 EMID UWMP demand projections appear to be greater than 
the demand estimate when the alternative growth is added to the 2020 
EMID demands and water conversation is accounted for. This analysis 
does not account for other growth within the EMID service area outside 
of Study Area 10.  
For Study Area 10, when water conservation is accounted for, it appears 
that EMID’s supply projections exceed estimated demand, and there 
would be adequate supply to serve new development under any of the 
three alternatives (which are the same in Study Area 10).    
As part of the future EIR, a more detailed water service analysis will be 
conducted, including consultation with both water agencies, to refine 
demand values and potential conservation measures. 
239 of 509

--- page 240 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
88 
WASTEWATER12,13,14 
The City of San Mateo maintains its own sanitary sewer conveyance 
system. San Mateo’s Wastewater Treatment Plant is jointly owned by 
the City of San Mateo and the City of Foster City/Estero Municipal 
Improvement District (EMID). This section analyzes the existing and 
proposed sanitary sewer demands and capacities for the impacts of 
projected growth of each of the alternatives relating to wastewater 
conveyance and treatment. 
In 1989, the City of San Mateo and EMID entered into a Joint Powers 
Agreement for construction, operation and maintenance of the 
treatment plant. Table 23 provides a summary of capacity limits each 
municipality is able to discharge into the treatment plant. 
Table 23 
Sewer Capacity – Joint Powers Agreement 
Flow 
San Mateo 
(mgd) 
EMID 
(mgd) 
Total 
(mgd) 
Average Dry Weather Flow 
11.4 
4.3 
15.7 
Maximum Day Dry Weather 
16.0 
6.0 
22.0 
Maximum Day Wet Weather 
32.3 
7.0 
39.3 
Peak Hour Dry Weather 
27.37 
12.13 
39.5 
Peak Hour Wet Weather 
47.8 
12.2 
60.0 
Max. Month Dry Weather 
13.0 
4.9 
17.9 
Max. Month Wet Weather 
20.0 
5.6 
25.6 
Mgd = Million gallons per day.  
Source: Joint Powers Agreement “Exhibit A” 
 
12 Sewer System Management Plan, San Mateo, CA. (2015). City of San Mateo.  
13 Integrated Wastewater Master Plan, San Mateo, CA. (2014). City of San Mateo.  
14 Joint Powers Agreement Between City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District for Construction and Operation of the Water Quality Control Plant (1989) 
Future increases in sewer flows will be directly tied to increases in water 
use and water supply. As explained in the prior section, Cal Water has 
not currently identified future water supplies to fully serve the amount of 
development considered in any of the three land use alternatives. If 
future water supplies are constrained, and/or future development is 
required to include extreme water conservation or water reuse, future 
sewage flows will be correspondingly lower.  
The projected increase in sanitary sewer discharge by each of the 
alternatives was computed using sewage coefficients provided in the 
2014 Integrated Wastewater Master Plan (IWMP). Although the IWMP 
was created in 2014, it provided a wastewater flow rate per capita 
projections for 2020 which includes water conservation. A wastewater 
flow rate of 75 gallons per capita per day was utilized in this analysis. 
Table 24 provides an estimate of sewer demand increase for each land 
use alternative. 
Table 24 
Sewer Usage - Projected Demand Based on Use 
Coefficients 
 
Average Dry Weather (ADW) Sewage Generation 
(Net Increase) 
(mgd) 
Alternative A 
2.21 
Alternative B 
3.02 
Alternative C 
4.01 
Table 25 presents average flow data provided by City staff, additional 
flows from the alternatives and current sewage capacities for the 
treatment plant based on the Joint Powers Agreement between the City 
and EMID.  
 
240 of 509

--- page 241 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
89 
Table 25 
Sewer Usage – Projected Effluent Flows -  
 
Total Historical Influent  
Average Dry Weather Flow 
2019-2020* (mgd) 
Projected Alternatives 
Average Dry Weather Flow 
(mgd) 
Total Historical Influent 
Average Dry Weather Flow + 
Alternatives Flow (mgd) 
Allowed Wastewater 
Treatment Plant Average Dry 
Weather Flow 2014**(mgd) 
Alternative A 
10.76 
2.21 
12.97 
11.40 
Alternative B 
3.02 
13.78 
11.40 
Alternative C 
4.01 
14.77 
11.40 
*This includes data provided by City staff and includes flow from City of San Mateo, associated minor parties and excludes City of Foster City/EMID flows.  
**This is the agreed upon capacity for City of San Mateo and associated minor parties as part of the Joint Powers Agreement w ith EMID. 
Source: City of San Mateo 
Based on Table 25, it appears that the allowed average dry weather flow 
for San Mateo under the current Joint Powers Agreement would be 
exceeded by the additional flow from any of the three alternatives. The 
upgraded wastewater treatment plan will have adequate capacity to 
accommodate the projected average dry weather flows under any of the 
alternatives. However, increasing the allowed average dry weather flow 
for the City would require renegotiation of the limits in the Joint Powers 
Agreement with the other parties.  
In addition to the average dry weather flow capacity, the 2014 Integrated 
Wastewater Master Plan noted that wet weather flow in the past has 
exceeded existing capacity and caused backups and sanitary sewer 
overflows during peak wet weather events. 15 As a result, the City of San 
Mateo is currently under a Cease-and-Desist Order to eliminate sewer 
overflows.16 
Construction 
on 
a 
significant 
WWTP 
upgrade, 
modernization, and expansion project began in 2019 and is currently 
 
15 Integrated Wastewater Master Plan, San Mateo, CA. (2014). City of San Mateo.  
16 https://cleanwaterprogramsanmateo.org/wwtp/, accessed October 15, 2021.  
17 https://cleanwaterprogramsanmateo.org/wwtp/, accessed October 15, 2021. 
18 C.3 Regulated Projects Guide (January 2020). San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program 
19 San Mateo County Guidelines For Drainage Review.  San Mateo County 
underway, scheduled for completion in 2024. This project will increase 
the WWTP’s peak wet weather flow capacity to 78 mgd.17 
 The upgrade and expansion to the WWTP that is currently underway will 
significantly increase its capacity to handle peak wet weather flows. 
Renegotiation of the Joint Powers Agreement governing the wastewater 
treatment plant would likely be needed over the next 20 years to 
increase allowance for average dry weather flows to accommodate any 
of the alternatives. 
STORMWATER SERVICES18,19 
The City of San Mateo maintains storm drain systems citywide. The 
system comprises 80 miles of storm drain lines that typically direct flow 
to the nearest creek before reaching San Francisco Bay. This section 
analyzes how the buildout of the alternatives may affect the storm 
drainage systems maintained by the City. 
241 of 509

--- page 242 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
90 
The alternative study areas are in general located in highly developed 
areas of the City. The alternatives would generally be a redevelopment 
of existing parcels, many which contain a significant amount of 
impervious areas and no stormwater treatment measures as the land 
was developed prior to additional rules and regulations were required. 
This means much of the existing parcels likely drain directly into the 
City’s storm drainage system without any required infiltration or 
detention of water. Projects in San Mateo County are subject to federal 
and State requirements to protect water quality, as well as City drainage 
requirements. 
If development projects create and/or replace impervious surface, they 
may be subject to regulations that require developments to incorporate 
stormwater 
treatment 
measures. 
These 
regulations 
require 
developments to incorporate stormwater treatment measures which 
may support holding stormwater on the site and giving it time to sink 
into the ground. This in turn reduces the stormwater runoff amount and 
velocities.  
The City drainage requirements specify that: 
– 
Post-development peak flow (runoff) and velocity must be less 
than or equal to pre-development peak flow and velocity in areas 
where there are no existing down stream storm drain systems. 
– 
In areas where there are existing storm drain systems, those 
systems must be of adequate size to accept the increased 
runoff, or mitigation procedures must be taken. Mitigation 
procedures may include on-site storm drain detention or off-site 
storm drain improvements. 
 
20 City of San Mateo, August 2019, Green Infrastructure Plan 
In general, the stormwater requirements are usually incorporated in the 
conditions of approval for developments. This includes the possible use 
of detention basins, stormwater treatment, improvements to the City 
drainage system that the development may be utilizing or impacting, 
and much more.  
The Green Infrastructure Plan (GIP), a document that includes goals, 
policies and programs to address land use with relation to green 
infrastructure, will also influence the design considerations needed for 
development within the land use alternatives.20 The policies and 
programs in the GIP are intended to  prevent of water pollution, minimize 
stormwater runoff, encourage the use of low-impact design features 
such as bioswales and pervious pavements, require street tree planting 
as a requirement of all new development, and preserve topography and 
minimize impacts to natural resources. 
The stormwater improvements needed for each development project 
are determined on a case-by-case basis because each project may vary 
widely with regard to the amount of stormwater runoff produced and 
allowed mitigations.  
Water quality rules and regulations and City drainage requirements help 
aid in reducing runoff rates and velocities. The stormwater requirements 
outlined in each development’s condition of approval helps ensure that 
the City’s stormwater infrastructure is able to support the specific 
development as individual projects are proposed over time. 
POLICY CONSIDERATIONS  
The General Plan must address infrastructure and there are a number 
of policies in the existing General Plan regarding water and sewer 
service. Policy approaches to addressing water supply and wastewater 
treatment include:   
242 of 509

--- page 243 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
91 
– 
Supporting efforts by Cal Water and EMID to develop 
supplemental water sources. 
– 
Requiring new major multifamily and commercial developments 
to evaluate the sewer capacity and make any improvements 
necessary to convey additional sewage flows from the project.  
– 
Coordinating future planning of the sewer collection and 
Wastewater Treatment Plan with other users, including EMID, the 
Crystal Springs County Sanitation District, the Town of 
Hillsborough, and the City of Belmont.  
5.5 
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 
Environmental sustainability can be measured several ways, one of 
which assesses how sustainable a community is in the face of climate-
related hazards such as sea level rise, flooding, and wildfire. These 
climate-related hazards differ from natural hazards (e.g. earthquakes) in 
that they are caused by human activities that contribute to the changing 
climate. As reported by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
(IPCC), in their Sixth Assessment Report released August 2021, 
“human-induced climate change is already affecting many weather and 
climate extremes in every region across the globe”21 and some impacts 
from climate change are now considered unavoidable, such as sea level 
rise, increasing temperatures, and variable weather patterns. 
California’s Fourth Climate Change Assessment, released in 2018, 
outlines global climate change risks to California, some of which are 
likely realities in the city of San Mateo, either now or in the future. Such 
impacts include, but are not limited to:22 
 
21 IPCC, 2021: Summary for Policymakers. In: Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change [Masson-Delmotte, V., P. Zhai, A. Pirani, S. L. Connors, C. Péan, S. Berger, N. Caud, Y. Chen, L. Goldfarb, M. I. Gomis, M. Huang, K. Leitzell, E. Lonnoy, J.B.R. Matthews, T. 
K. Maycock, T. Waterfield, O. Yelekçi, R. Yu and B. Zhou (eds.)]. Cambridge University Press. In Press. 
22 Bedsworth, Louise, Dan Cayan, Guido Franco, Leah Fisher, Sonya Ziaja. (California Governor’s Office of Planning and Research, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, California Energy 
Commission, California Public Utilities Commission). 2018. Statewide Summary Report. California’s Fourth Climate Change Assessment. Publication number: SUMCCCA4-2018-013. 
– 
Increased property damage/destruction, injury, and loss of life. 
– 
Economic impacts from increased insurance and reconstruction 
costs. 
– 
Higher stress and mental trauma from extreme events, 
economic disruption, and residential displacement. 
– 
Damage to infrastructure systems from climate hazards. 
As shown on Figure 25, there are three primary climate-related hazards 
in San Mateo: sea level rise in the northern and eastern portions of the 
city, flooding along the eastern shoreline and along Marina Lagoon, and 
wildfire in the western and southern portions of the city. Several local 
planning efforts address these hazards, including the Multijurisdictional 
Local Hazard Mitigation Plan (LHMP), the Climate Action Plan (CAP), 
and the General Plan, among others. These documents outline policy 
decisions and directions that will ensure growth in the San Mateo 
community is environmentally sustainable. Development in each of the 
Study Areas will be impacted by climate-related hazards in a different 
way, outlined in further detail below.  
SEA LEVEL RISE  
Sea level rise is attributed to the increase of average ocean 
temperatures and the resulting thermal expansion and the melting of 
snow and ice contributing to the volume of water held in the oceans. 
While many effects of climate change will impact the region, sea level 
rise is one specific impact that has been extensively studied and 
quantified, and its effects mapped. The speed and amount of sea level 
rise will be influenced by the increase in average temperatures and rate 
243 of 509

--- page 244 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
92 
of melting of glacial ice. While there is a degree of uncertainty in 
projections, the actual rate of sea level rise is occurring more quickly 
than many previous projections had estimated.23  
The California Natural Resources Agency, in partnership with the 
California Ocean Protection Council, issued the State of California Sea-
Level Rise Guidance, which states that sea levels in the San Francisco 
Bay Area may rise 22 inches by mid-century and 82 inches by the end 
of the century. Because it is in a low-lying coastal area, San Mateo is 
highly vulnerable to this threat. A sea level rise of 22 inches could 
inundate areas near Seal Point. If the level of San Francisco Bay rises 
82 inches, water is projected to inundate all parts of San Mateo east of 
Highway 101, as well as areas west of Highway 101 including the area 
north of downtown and large sections of the Hayward Park, Bay 
Meadows, and Laurie Meadows neighborhoods.24 
 
23 City of San Mateo, April 2020, 2020 Climate Action Plan, https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/80652/2020-Climate-Action-Plan?bidId=, page 19, accessed on 
September 21, 2021. 
24 City of San Mateo, April 2020, 2020 Climate Action Plan, https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/80652/2020-Climate-Action-Plan?bidId=, page 19, accessed on 
September 21, 2021. 
244 of 509

--- page 245 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
93 
Figure 25. 
Combined Hazards 
 
245 of 509

--- page 246 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
94 
All Study Areas located to the east of Highway 101 are at severe risk of 
inundation by sea level rise at both 18 feet and 55 feet, as illustrated on 
Figure 25. The Study Areas located in these areas are listed below: 
– 
Select portions of Study Area 2, largely east of State Route 82, 
are susceptible to sea level rise under the 18- and 55-foot 
scenarios. All three alternatives include Residential Medium land 
uses, the most of which is anticipated in Alternative B. All three 
alternatives also include Residential Low uses, the least amount 
in 
Alternative 
B. 
Alternative 
A 
includes 
Commercial 
Neighborhood uses while Alternative B includes Mixed-Use Low 
and Alternative C includes Mixed-Use Medium. Alternative B 
would include the most homes and population growth, followed 
by Alternative C then A. Each alternative assumes that the 
amount of jobs declines, the most with Alternative B, followed 
by Alternative C and then A. 
– 
Approximately half of Study Area 3 is susceptible to sea level 
rise under the 18- and 55-foot scenarios. These areas largely lie 
to the east of the railroad tracks. However, this portion of Study 
Area 3 is largely similar in each alternative except for select 
commercial parcels. Therefore, none of the alternatives would 
introduce a significant differing amount of development in an 
area susceptible to sea level rise. The major differences 
between alternatives in the areas susceptible to sea level rise 
are between Alternatives A and B with Alternative C, where 
Alternatives A and B designate several parcels as Mixed-Use 
Medium while these parcels are designated as Mixed-Use Low 
in Alternative C. Therefore, Alternatives A and B anticipate more 
development in areas east of Pacific that are susceptible to sea 
level rise inundation. 
– 
The far eastern portions of Study Area 4 are susceptible to sea 
level rise under the 55-foot scenario. Alternatives A and B would 
designate most of this area as Residential Medium while 
Alternative C would designate that same area as Residential 
Low.  
– 
The entirety of Study Area 7 is susceptible to sea level rise. The 
majority is susceptible to sea level rise under the 18-foot 
scenario while the southern portion is susceptible to only the 55-
foot scenario.  
– 
The entirety of Study Area 8 is susceptible to sea level rise under 
the 18-foot scenario.  
– 
The entirety of Study Area 9 is susceptible to sea level rise under 
the 18-foot scenario.  
– 
The entirety of Study Area 10 is susceptible to sea level rise 
under the 18-foot scenario.  All alternatives anticipate the same 
residential and job growth. 
Although the alternatives anticipate different levels of development, the 
flooding impacts would be the same amongst the alternatives because 
impacts would be localized to the first floor of the structure.  
FLOODING 
Flooding events, and their severity, are predicted to become more 
intense as a result of the changing climate. Forecasts indicate that more 
intense rainfall events will occur more frequently, increasing localized 
flooding events that impact infrastructure, buildings, and people. 
According to California’s Fourth Climate Change Assessment, and as 
restated in the 2020 CAP, the state’s water system is structured and 
operated to balance between water storage for dry months and flood 
protection during rainy months. Although climate change is likely to lead 
to a drier climate overall, risks from regular, more intense rainfall events 
can generate more frequent and/or more severe flooding that upsets 
this managed balance between storage and protection. Additionally, 
246 of 509

--- page 247 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
95 
erosion may increase, and water quality may decrease as a result of 
increased rainfall.25  
As shown on Figure 25, several study areas are located within areas at 
risk of a FEMA 100-year flood, and several are within areas at risk of 
both a FEMA 100-year flood to of sea level rise inundation. The study 
areas located in these susceptible areas of San Mateo are listed below, 
along with the implications for each given development potential under 
the three alternatives.  
– 
Small portions of Study Area 3 are susceptible to flooding as 
reported by FEMA. These areas include south of State Route 92 
and west of the railroad tracks.  
– 
Some portions of Study Area 4 are susceptible to FEMA 100-
year flooding and some areas are susceptible to both FEMA 
100-year flooding and sea level rise. Areas susceptible to only 
the FEMA 100-year floods are located directly north of the San 
Mateo Caltrain Station. Alternatives A and B designate these 
areas as Residential Medium while Alternative C designates this 
area as Residential Low.  
– 
The vast majority of Study Area 7 is located in both a FEMA 100-
year flood zone and an area susceptible to sea level rise. The 
alternatives for Study Area 7 include a mix of densifying land 
uses. Refer to Section 5.5 for more information on land uses that 
may be impacted from flooding in this Study Area. 
– 
Study Area 8 is susceptible to both FEMA 100-year flood zones 
and sea level rise only on the far eastern portion. The alternatives 
in this portion of Study Area 8 are all similar. 
 
25 City of San Mateo, April 2020, 2020 Climate Action Plan, https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/80652/2020-Climate-Action-Plan?bidId=, page 18, accessed on 
September 21, 2021. 
26 City of San Mateo, April 2020, 2020 Climate Action Plan, https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/80652/2020-Climate-Action-Plan?bidId=, page 21, accessed on 
September 21, 2021. 
– 
The southeast portion of Study Area 9 is susceptible to both the 
FEMA 100-year flood zone and sea level rise. All three 
alternatives include office medium land uses and residential low 
in this portion of Study Area 9.  Alternatives A and C also include 
commercial neighborhood. 
– 
A small portion of Study Area 10, on the northwestern border, is 
susceptible to both the FEMA 100-year flood zone and to sea 
level rise. All three alternatives anticipate the same residential 
medium development in this area. 
Although the alternatives anticipate different levels of development, the 
sea level rise impacts would be the same amongst the alternatives 
because impacts would be localized to the first floor of the structure.  
WILDFIRE RISK 
Wildfire risk is based on a combination of factors including rainfall, 
winds, temperature, and vegetation. According to California Fourth 
Climate Change Assessment, higher temperatures, longer dry periods, 
and increased frequency of high velocity winds over a longer fire season 
will directly increase wildfire risk. Indirectly, wildfire risk will also be 
influenced by potential climate-related changes in vegetation and 
ignition potential from lightning. Historically, the annual average area 
burned in San Mateo was 50 acres. According to CalAdapt, under 
higher emissions scenario, this could increase to an average annual 
burn area of 73 acres by 2050 and 133 acres by 2100. The hills behind 
San Mateo are also expected to see an increase in wildfire frequency, 
and fires in this area could cause damage in the community or impact 
local air quality.26  
247 of 509

--- page 248 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
96 
Areas in San Mateo that are at risk of wildfire are located to the west of 
State Route 92. There are no Study Areas located within a Very High Fire 
Hazard Severity Zones as currently mapped by CAL FIRE.27 However, 
Study Area 6 is located within the Wildland Urban Interface28. The 
Interface zone covers places that have dense housing next to vegetation 
that can burn in a wildfire. 
POLICY CONSIDERATIONS 
The City could consider policies and actions in the General Plan Update 
to reduce the impacts of sea level rise, flooding, and wildfire hazards: 
– 
Work with regional partners like the San Mateo County Flood 
and Sea Level Rise Resiliency District, San Francisco Bay 
Conservation and Development Commission (BCDC), and 
BayAdapt to develop coordinated sea level rise adaptation 
measures and programs.  
– 
Seek nature-based sea level rise mitigation and adaptation 
strategies where possible. 
– 
Require sea level rise projections and analyses as part of City 
development and environmental review processes in areas 
subject to sea level rise. Incorporate sea level rise mapping into 
the City’s geographic information system so it can be accessed 
by City staff, applicants, and the community.  
– 
Work with neighborhood associations, realtors, community-
based organizations, and property owners to provide 
information about potential property risks and mitigation options 
for increased flooding due to sea level rise. 
 
27 According to the City’s Fire Marshal, State maps are expected to increase the hazard level in certain areas in San Mateo from a high hazard wildland fire severity zone to a very high hazard 
severity zone. This section is based on the data currently publicly available.  
28 CalFire, 2019, Wildland-Urban Interface, https://mtc.maps.arcgis.com/apps/mapviewer/index.html?layers=d45bf08448354073a26675776f2d09cb, accessed on December 12, 2021. 
– 
Incentivize low impact development in the City in order to reduce 
stormwater runoff that can cause flooding. 
– 
Require all development in and adjacent to designated 
wildlands fire areas to provide access and defensible space in 
accordance with California Codes and local ordinances. 
– 
Maintain the City’s emergency readiness and response 
capabilities, especially regarding hazardous materials spills, 
natural gas pipeline ruptures, fire hazards, wildland fire risk, 
earthquakes, pandemics, and flooding. 
– 
Maintain the City’s Continuity of Operations / Continuity of 
Government Plan to ensure that the City government can 
operate during and after hazard events to provide resources and 
guidance for recovery and reconstruction. 
5.6 
EQUITY AND PUBLIC HEALTH 
Low-income residents, communities of color, indigenous peoples and 
tribal nations, and immigrant communities have disproportionately 
experienced greater environmental burdens and related health 
problems throughout the history of California. This inequity is the result 
of many historical factors: inappropriate zoning and negligent land use 
planning, failure to enforce proper zoning or conduct regular 
inspections, deed restrictions and other discriminatory housing and 
lending practices, limited political and economic power among certain 
demographics, the prioritization of business interests over public health, 
development patterns that tend to concentrate pollution and 
environmental hazards in certain communities, and the placement of 
economic and environmental benefits in more affluent areas. 
248 of 509

--- page 249 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
97 
HOUSING VULNERABILITY AND DISPLACEMENT 
Government policies, exclusionary tactics, and disparate treatments 
have long been key components of the housing system which 
encouraged developmental inequity based on race. Since the 1930s, 
systematic redlining, restrictive covenants in private land sales (i.e., 
prohibiting sale of property to a particular group of people, usually 
people of color), and residential segregation restricted many nonwhite 
groups from accessing socioeconomic opportunity and meaningful fair 
housing choice. Congress enacted the Fair Housing Act of 1968 to limit 
the overt housing discrimination as mentioned previously; however, 
residential segregation has persisted through hidden discriminatory 
practices that reinforce patters of segregation in California. AB 686, 
Affirmatively Further Fair Housing, amends the Government Code to 
alleviate these subtle patterns of discrimination.  
AB 686 amended Housing Element law to affirmatively further fair 
housing (AFFH) by creating additional new requirements that address: 
community outreach, assessment of fair housing, sites inventory, 
identification and prioritization of contributing factors, and goals and 
actions to further fair housing. The Housing Element update, being 
conducted in parallel with the General Plan Update, will be required to 
respond to the requirements of AB 686.  
The Urban Displacement Project (UDP) is a research and action 
initiative of UC Berkeley seeking to understand and describe the nature 
of gentrification, displacement, and exclusion, and to generate 
knowledge on how policy interventions and investment can respond 
and support more equitable development.29 Urban Displacement 
Project researchers have created interactive maps of gentrification and 
displacement potential at the census tract level. Table 26 describes the 
 
29 Berkeley, University of California, accessed October 1st, 2021, “Urban Displacement Landing Page,” urbandisplacement.org.   
30 Berkeley, University of California, accessed October 1st, 2021, “Urban Displacement San Francisco Bay Area gentrification and Displacement,” urbandisplacement.org., 
https://www.urbandisplacement.org/san-francisco/sf-bay-area-gentrification-and-displacement 
31 Zuk, M., Loukaitou-Sideris, A., & Chapple, K. (2019). Safeguarding against Displacement: Stabilizing Transit Neighborhoods. In K. Chapple & A. Loukaitou-Sideris (Ed.), Transit-Oriented 
Displacement or Community Dividends? Understanding the Effects of Smarter Growth on Communities (pp. 243-266). Cambridge: MIT Press 
current methodology and the criteria used identify a census tract as a 
certain type. The map for the City of San Mateo is shown on Figure 26. 
These maps are intended to frame conversations around issues of 
gentrification, displacement, and exclusion and to inform strategies to 
mitigate the negative impacts of housing instability. 30 To read more 
about this methodology, please go to Urban Displacement’s website at 
https://www.urbandisplacement.org/san-francisco/sf-bay-area-
gentrification-and-displacement 
Displacement as a result of gentrification is a concern in neighborhoods 
that are densifying in order to provide efficient, sustainable infill 
development close to transit. Displacement can take many forms. In 
some cases, residents of existing buildings are physically displaced 
when the building is demolished to be replaced with new construction. 
Displacement can also happen generationally, when parents or 
grandparents sell a family home and younger generations cannot afford 
to rent or buy in the same community. Over time, the neighborhood sees 
a less diverse mix of low- and moderate-income households as only 
high-income households can afford housing. Data on the effects of 
upzoning and of increasing housing construction on displacement in 
the Bay Area is inconclusive. Research has found that while “transit-
induced” gentrification is not “pervasive,” it is estimated that “11.5 
percent of transit neighborhoods in the Bay Area… experienced 
residential gentrification between 1990 and 2000 and/or 2000 and 
2013.”31 All three alternatives contemplate some amount of infill 
redevelopment, especially in areas close to transit, so all three 
alternatives would have the potential to increase displacement and to 
replace existing units that are affordable or less expensive with new units 
that would be more expensive.  
249 of 509

--- page 250 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
98 
It is important to note that preventing any physical change at all does 
not by itself prevent displacement. Housing cost is a key factor driving 
displacement.  When no new homes or commercial spaces are 
available, the prices of the finite supply of existing homes and 
commercial spaces increases rapidly, which often puts extreme 
pressure on existing residents and businesses.  
Table 26 
Urban Displacement Typologies 
Modified Types 
Criteria 
Low-income / 
Susceptible to 
Displacement 
 
Low or mixed low-income tract in 2018 
Ongoing 
Displacement of 
Low-income 
Households 
 
Low or mixed low-income tract in 2018 
 
Absolute loss of low-income households, 2000-2018 
At Risk of 
Gentrification 
 
Low-income or mixed low-income tract in 2018 
 
Housing affordable to low or mixed low-income households 
in 2018 
 
Didn’t gentrify 1990-2000 OR 2000-2018 
 
Marginal change in housing costs OR Zillow home or rental 
value increases in the 90th percentile between 2012-2018 
 
Local and nearby increases in rent were greater than the 
regional median between 2012-2018 OR the 2018 rent gaps 
greater than the regional median rent gap 
Early / Ongoing 
Gentrification 
 
Low-income or mixed low-income tract in 2018 
 
Housing affordable to moderate or mixed moderate-income 
households in 2018 
 
Increase or rapid increase in housing costs OR above regional 
median change in Zillow home or rental values between 
2012-2018  
 
Gentrified in 1990-2000 or 2000-2018 
Advanced 
Gentrification 
 
Moderate, mixed moderate, mixed high, or high-income 
tract in 2018 
 
Housing affordable to middle, high, mixed moderate, and 
mixed high-income households in 2018 
 
Marginal change, increase, or rapid increase in housing costs 
 
Gentrified in 1990-2000 or 2000-2018 
Modified Types 
Criteria 
Stable Moderate / 
Mixed Income 
 
Moderate, mixed moderate, mixed high, or high-income 
tract in 2018 
At Risk of Becoming 
Exclusive 
 
Moderate, mixed moderate, mixed high, or high-income 
tract in 2018 
 
Housing affordable to middle, high, mixed moderate, and 
mixed high-income households in 2018 
 
Marginal change or increase in housing costs  
Becoming Exclusive 
 
Moderate, mixed moderate, mixed high, or high-income 
tract in 2018 
 
Housing affordable to middle, high, mixed moderate, and 
mixed high-income households in 2018 
 
Rapid increase in housing costs 
 
Absolute loss of low-income households, 2000-2018 
 
Declining low-income in-migration rate, 2012-2018 
 
Median income higher in 2018 than in 2000 
Stable / Advanced 
Exclusive 
 
High-income tract in 2000 and 2018 
 
Affordable to high or mixed high-income households in 2018 
 
Marginal change, increase, or rapid increase in housing costs 
250 of 509

--- page 251 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
99 
Figure 26. 
Gentrification and Displacement Typologies in San Mateo 
251 of 509

--- page 252 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
100 
To mitigate displacement, proactive and reactive policies and programs 
intended to keep housing costs affordable and to offer residents 
housing security are likely to make a bigger difference than the specific 
amount or type of land use changes allowed by the General Plan. 
Researchers with the Urban Displacement Project have studied the 
effectiveness of anti-displacement policies in four broad categories:32  
– 
Building new affordable housing. The City has many tools in 
place already to support new affordable housing, including 
inclusionary zoning that requires 15 percent of units in new 
multifamily housing construction to be affordable, density 
bonuses allowed for new development that includes a minimum 
number of affordable units, providing City-owned sites for 
construction of affordable housing, and fees on commercial 
development to fund new affordable housing. In 2021, 388 
affordable units are approved or under construction in San 
Mateo.  
– 
Preserving existing units that are affordable, including through 
programs like the ones the City has in place to extend 
affordability covenants of existing affordable units and to 
provide grants and loans to low-income homeowners for 
rehabilitation.    
– 
Stabilizing neighborhoods. The City provides down payment 
assistance through the First Time Homebuyer program; 
enforces City and State codes to improve homes and 
neighborhoods and provides tenant relocation assistance to 
tenants displaced due to code enforcement actions; funds HIP 
(Human Investment Project) Housing, a local non-profit 
matching home seekers with those offering space for home 
sharing; and contracts with Project Sentinel to provide tenant 
counseling, Fair Housing services, monitoring and investigation.  
 
32 Zuk, M., Loukaitou-Sideris, A., & Chapple, K. (2019). Safeguarding against Displacement: Stabilizing Transit Neighborhoods. In K. Chapple & A. Loukaitou-Sideris (Ed.), Transit-Oriented 
Displacement or Community Dividends? Understanding the Effects of Smarter Growth on Communities (pp. 243-266). Cambridge: MIT Press 
– 
Minimizing commercial displacement by helping businesses 
stay open or relocate during construction and by offering 
technical support to attract and retain local businesses as 
redevelopment occurs.  
Overall, Alternative A represents the least change throughout the Study 
Areas. On one hand, the least change may lead to the least physical 
displacement through redevelopment. However, Alternative A will also 
include the least amount of new housing, including less affordable 
housing, as shown in Table 27. Limiting the construction of new housing 
could result in continued increases in rental and for-sale housing prices.  
In general, Alternative B spreads medium-density, medium-height 
development throughout the Study Areas, in contrast to Alternative C 
that concentrates higher densities and heights in central San Mateo 
along El Camino Real and near the Caltrain stations. The footprint of 
development and the location and number of individual sites subject to 
redevelopment, and therefore displacement, could be similar under 
Alternative B as Alternative C; the difference would be that Alternative B 
would place a lower amount of new development on those sites than 
would Alternative C.    
Alternative C allows the greatest amount of new development and new 
housing. While redevelopment would be more intensive in some Study 
Areas than others, all Study Areas would see the greatest amount of 
change and redevelopment under Alternative C. Because of San 
Mateo’s inclusionary housing requirements, the highest amount of new 
affordable housing would be added under Alternative C.  
 
 
252 of 509

--- page 253 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
101 
Table 27 
Inclusionary Units under Each Alternative 
Alternative  
Total 
Housing 
Units  
Minus 
ADUs 
Multifamily 
Housing 
Units  
Affordable Housing Units 
(15% of multifamily 
based on inclusionary 
Requirement) 
A 
+11,810 
1,000 
10,810 
1,622 
B 
+16,070 
1,250 
14,820 
2,223 
C 
+21,080 
1,000 
20,080 
3,012 
The pressures of displacement, gentrification, and exclusion are not 
isolated in the study areas. Future changes within the study areas will 
affect other neighborhoods in San Mateo. During the alternatives 
creation process, community members expressed particular concern 
about potential gentrification and displacement within the North Central 
neighborhood, influenced by development in Study Areas 4, 5, and 7 
which surround it. Because sites in North Central are not considered for 
change under any alternatives, none of the alternatives would directly 
displace residents through redevelopment. Alternative C may have the 
most potential benefit to low-income families in North Central (and other 
San Mateo neighborhoods) since it would provide the greatest amount 
of new affordable housing. However, as with land use changes within 
the Study Areas, it is probable that policies and programs to prevent 
and mitigate displacement will have a stronger effect on outcomes in 
North Central than the differences in land use among the three 
alternatives.  
BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN SAFETY 
Overall outcomes under each alternative for people who walk and ride 
bikes are discussed in section 5.2, Traffic and Multimodal Circulation, 
above. Bicycle and pedestrian safety is also addressed here as an 
equity issue because all San Mateo residents should have safe and 
convenient opportunities to bike and walk for transportation, exercise, 
or pleasure. SB 1000, the 2016 law that requires General Plans to 
address environmental justice, calls for the City to reduce health risks in 
disadvantaged neighborhoods by improving air quality and promoting 
physical activity. For households without access to a car, it is critical to 
be able to bike or walk safely to school, work, shopping, and transit.  
Bicycle and pedestrian collisions in San Mateo between 2015 and 2020 
are shown in Figures 27 and 28 respectively. There was one fatal bicycle 
collision in this period at South Norfolk Street and SR 92. There were 
115 bicycle injury collisions. The most reoccurring bicycle collision 
factors were automobile right of way (15 percent), unsafe speed (15 
percent), wrong side of road (25 percent), improper turning (9 percent), 
and traffic signal and signs (8 percent). Injury collisions were 
concentrated on El Camino Real south of SR 92, in the Downtown core, 
and on Hillsdale Boulevard near US Highway 101.  
From 2015 to 2020 there were eight pedestrian fatalities and a total of 
197 injury collisions. The most frequent collision factor was violation of 
pedestrian right-of-way (65 percent), which means the other party in the 
collision did not yield to a pedestrian or intruded on the pedestrian’s 
space to cause the collision. The fatalities occurred on streets with high 
speeds and vehicle volumes: three on El Camino Real (in Study Area 3), 
three in Study Area 7, two at US Highway 101, and one at Norfolk Street 
(Study Area 7). The map of collision locations reveals high collision 
concentration areas: San Mateo’s Downtown (Study Area 4), the North 
Central part of the City near San Mateo High School, along San Mateo 
Drive (Study Area 5), and along El Camino Real from Downtown San 
Mateo to Hillsdale Boulevard (Study Areas 1 and 3). The concentration 
of pedestrian collisions in Study Area 4 is most likely due to a high rate 
of walking combined with high volumes of auto traffic. These clusters of 
collisions highlight the need for infrastructure improvements in their 
respective areas. The City’s adopted Pedestrian Master Plan, the 
upcoming Complete Streets Plan, and the General Plan Update could 
add further policy guidance to help improve pedestrian safety. 
 
 
253 of 509

--- page 254 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
102 
Many factors affect bicycle and pedestrian safety, including how many 
vehicles there are in an area, street design, street lighting, and speed 
limits. Speed is the single most significant factor that determines the 
severity of a collision. Research into the relationship between land use 
and traffic safety has not demonstrated clear links between specific land 
uses, densities, or heights and traffic safety outcomes. In studies of 
pedestrian safety, some find that increased population density is 
correlated with increased traffic collisions, others find that increased 
population density is correlated with decreased traffic collisions, some 
find mixed results, and some find population density statistically 
insignificant.33 On one hand, adding more development to a study area 
by allowing higher-density development would bring more people to the 
area, increasing the chances for a collision to occur. On the other hand, 
adding mixed-use development, especially near transit, can reduce the 
need to drive, getting more people out of their cars and reducing the 
risk of collision. In areas such as Downtown where biking and walkability 
is prioritized, measures to reduce vehicle speed, reduce conflicts 
between cars, bicycle, and pedestrians. Improving bicycle and 
pedestrian comfort would have a much stronger effect on bicycle and 
pedestrian safety than would the variations in land use designations and 
intensities among the alternatives. There is not sufficient data available 
to support a conclusion that one of the land use alternatives would be 
significantly more likely to improve or to worsen pedestrian and bicycle 
safety, because pedestrian and bicycle safety is more directly affected 
by non-land use factors such as street design, street lighting, and 
vehicle speeds.  
The circulation alternatives provide a more direct connection to 
influencing pedestrian and bicyclist safety. Out of all three circulation 
alternatives, Circulation Alternative C would have the highest multi-
modal benefit because it anticipates the most pedestrian, bicycle, and 
transit improvements. Circulation Alternative A would result in the 
 
33 Erick Guerra, Xiaoxia Dong, and Michelle Kondo. 2019. "Do Denser Neighborhoods Have Safer Streets? Population Density and Traffic Safety in the Philadelphia Region." Journal of Planning 
Education and Research. 
second highest amount of pedestrian improvements when compared to 
the other two circulation alternatives. Circulation Alternatives A and C 
include more bicycle improvements than Circulation Alternative B. All 
circulation alternatives include good bicycle network coverage through 
the adopted Bike Master Plan, and Circulation Alternative A and 
Circulation Alternative C have the potential to improve upon that with a 
future study of an El Camino Real bike lane and other improvements. 
Circulation Alternative B performs the lowest in improvement pedestrian 
safety and connectivity. 
    
 
254 of 509

--- page 255 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
103 
Figure 27. 
Bicycle Collisions 
 
255 of 509

--- page 256 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
104 
Figure 28. 
Pedestrian Collisions 
 
256 of 509

--- page 257 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
105 
POLLUTION BURDEN  
This section references CalEnviroScreen 4.0, California’s primary 
environmental justice screening tool. CalEnviroScreen calculates the 
relationship between exposure to pollution, or “pollution burden,” and 
population characteristics such as poverty, educational attainment, and 
age, to arrive at a combined score for every Census tract in California. 
In general, the higher the score, the more impacted a community is. 
Overall combined scores for Census tracts in San Mateo range from 78 
percent in the North Central neighborhood to 1 in the San Mateo Park, 
Baywood, and Aragon neighborhoods. Figure 29 shows the range of 
combined scores in Census tracts in San Mateo.  
This section will focus on the evaluation of three pollution indicators for 
which some Census tracts in San Mateo have high scores: traffic 
density, diesel particulate matter (PM), and groundwater threats.  
TRAFFIC DENSITY AND DIESEL PARTICULATE MATTER 
While California has strict vehicle-emissions standards, exhaust from 
cars and trucks is the main source of air pollution in much of the state. 
Major roads and highways bring air pollutants and noise into nearby 
neighborhoods. Children who live or go to schools near busy roads 
have higher rates of asthma than children in areas farther from roads.34  
Traffic density percentile scores at or above 75 percent are 
concentrated along Highway 101 and Highway 92, as shown in Figure 
30. Percentile scores above 90 percent are concentrated around the 
101 and 92 interchange and in north San Mateo near the Poplar Creek 
Golf Course. Study Areas 7 and 8 are the most severely affected by 
traffic emissions, but pollutant emissions from traffic affect Study Areas 
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 9.  
One pollutant of concern is Diesel Particulate Matter (DPM), which is in 
the exhaust from trucks, buses, trains, and other equipment with diesel 
 
34 California Office of Environmental Health Hazard, June 11, 2021, accessed September 30, 2021. “Draft CalEnviroScreen 4.0 Traffic Indicator for San Mateo,”oehha.ca.gov., 
https://oehha.ca.gov/calenviroscreen/report/draft-calenviroscreen-40 
engines. DPM contains many harmful chemicals. Study Areas 1, 3, 4, 8, 
and 9 all include Census tracts with scores over 75 percent, meaning 
that exposure to DPM in these Census tracts is higher than 75 percent 
of the Census tracts in California. In particular, the census tract bounded 
by Highway 101, Highway 92, and El Camino Real, which is in Study 
Area 3, has the highest DPM score in San Mateo at 95 percent. Within 
Study Area 3, Alternative A would add the fewest new residents and 
Alternative C would add the most.  
GROUNDWATER THREATS 
Groundwater threats are dangerous substances, often hazardous 
chemicals, that can negatively impact the groundwater of a community. 
These chemicals include gasoline and diesel fuels at gas stations, 
chemicals used in dry cleaning, as well as heavy metals, pesticides, and 
solvents. Even though most of these hazardous chemicals are typically 
stored in containers, and the threat is that leaks from tank can lead to 
soil and groundwater contamination. Leaking tanks can affect drinking 
water and expose people to contaminated soil and air. The level of 
threat in San Mateo indicates that there is potential for leaks to occur 
but is not a measure of contamination that has already happened. 
Contamination that has occurred in the past is captured in a different 
CalEnviroScreen indicator that looks at the number and weight of toxic 
cleanup sites in or near a Census tract. Cleanup site scores in San 
Mateo range from a high of 61 percent in North Central, meaning the 
number and type of cleanup sites is higher than 61 percent of the 
census tracts in California, to a low of 0 in San Mateo Park and Baywood 
Census tracts.  
257 of 509

--- page 258 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
106 
Figure 29. 
CalEnviroScreen Combined Scores 
 
258 of 509

--- page 259 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
107 
Figure 30. 
Traffic Density and Pollutant Exposure 
 
 
259 of 509

--- page 260 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
108 
As shown on Figure 31, Study Areas 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, and 9 include 
Census tracts with percentile scores at or above 90 percent for 
groundwater threats, indicating that the number and type of 
groundwater threats in these areas are higher than approximately 90 
percent of the other Census tracts in California. It is important to 
understand that San Mateo does not use groundwater for drinking 
water. San Mateo’s drinking water is surface water imported from other 
parts of California, and San Mateo’s drinking water is very clean. 
Therefore, there is no risk to human health from drinking potentially 
contaminated groundwater in San Mateo. Instead, human health could 
be at risk if groundwater were to first be contaminated and then exposed 
through excavation or construction of new development. There are a 
number of well-established practices for protecting workers and 
residents from groundwater and groundwater vapor both during 
construction and after a building is occupied, such as vapor barriers.  
Assuming that regulations and best practices for preventing 
groundwater and vapor intrusion are followed, the risks to human health 
from potential groundwater contamination would not differ among the 
alternatives and all alternatives would have similar risks. 
ACCESS TO PARKS AND OPEN SPACE  
Parks and Open Spaces are important natural resources, providing 
approximately 420 acres of parks and open space within the City and 
many miles of paths and trails. Even though San Mateo parks and open 
space are free and accessible, they are not equitably accessible for 
everyone. Park and open space access is an important environmental 
justice issue because proximity to park and open space has been linked 
in increase inactive behaviors, and positive impacts on health outcomes 
such as lower rates of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and obesity.35 
Figure 24, in the previous Public Services section, illustrates park 
access in San Mateo. Areas that are within a ¼ mile walking distance of 
 
35 Maroko, A.R., Maantay, J.A., Sohler, N.L. et al. The complexities of measuring access to parks and physical activity sites in New York City: a quantitative and qualitative approach. Int J Health 
Geogr 8, 34 (2009). https://doi.org/10.1186/1476-072X-8-34 
an existing park are shown in light green, areas between ¼ mile and ½ 
mile are in light gold, and areas beyond ½ mile walking distance to a 
park are in dark gold. Note that Figure 24 focuses on walking distance 
via existing streets. So, for example, although parts of Study Area 8 are 
close to Fiesta Meadows Park or Connie Park, there are no existing 
connections that would allow future residents in Study Area 8 to walk 
less than ½ mile to reach either park. 
As shown in Figure 24, areas at the outskirts of the City and along the 
Highway 101 corridor have to walk the farthest to reach existing parks.  
While parks are an important amenity for both residents and workers in 
San Mateo, this equity analysis focuses on those who live in San Mateo.  
– 
Study Areas 1-C, 3, and 4 near the center of San Mateo have the 
best walkable access to existing parks.  Alternative C would add 
the most new residents in Study Areas 3 and 4; Alternative B 
would add the most new residents in 1-N.  
– 
Although it is on the periphery, the northern edge of Study Area 
10 has good access to Mariners Island Park. All alternatives add 
the same number of residents in Study Area 10.  
– 
About half of Study Areas 5, 7, 8, and 9 are within a ½ mile of a 
park, and the remainder is outside the ½ mile walking distance. 
Alternative C adds the most new residents in Study Areas 5 and 
7, while Alternative B adds the most new residents in Study 
Areas 8 and 9.  
– 
Study Areas 1-N, 1-S, 2, and 6 are almost entirely outside of a 
½-mile walking distance from any existing park.  In these low-
access areas, Alternative B adds the most new residents in 
Study Areas 1-N, 1-S, and 2. Alternative C adds the most new 
residents in Study Area 6.  
260 of 509

--- page 261 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
109 
Figure 31. 
Groundwater Threats 
 
261 of 509

--- page 262 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
110 
– 
Alternative A would add the fewest new residents in Study Areas 
1 through 9 and therefore the fewest new residents in both Study 
Areas with high walkable park access and Study Areas with low 
walkable park access.  
POLICY CONSIDERATIONS 
– 
Maintain City policies that protect against displacement, 
including building new affordable housing units, preserving 
existing affordable units, providing support to tenants and 
landlords, and supporting local businesses. 
– 
Continue to improve the safety of San Mateo streets and 
sidewalks, including through improvements called for in the 
adopted Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan and Bicycle Master 
Plan.  
– 
Consider requirements for health risk assessments, including 
consideration of diesel particulate matter and other air 
pollutants, when a project potentially affects sensitive receptors.  
– 
Requiring the cleanup of contaminated sites when the site is 
developed or redeveloped.  
– 
 When planning for future development in areas that are more 
than ½ mile walking distance from a park, the City should 
consider ways to improve connections to existing parks and 
work with applicants to include publicly accessible private open 
space as part of their projects. 
– 
Explore opportunities for joint use agreements with local School 
Districts to increase access to playgrounds and fields. 
 
36 More detailed interviews with City staff, specifically the Fire Department and the Public Works Department are needed. 
5.7 
FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY 
In the context of the City’s General Plan update, the primary goal of the 
fiscal impact analysis is to quantify the impact of the three alternatives 
on the City’s long-term fiscal health to help formulate policies, growth 
patterns, and public service standards that are fiscally sustainable over 
the General Plan buildout.  
METHODOLOGY 
The fiscal impact analysis is focused on the City’s General Fund budget, 
comparing the costs of providing public services and maintaining public 
facilities with the primary revenue sources available to cover these 
expenditures. The fiscal impact analysis is based on a review of the 
current Fiscal Year 2021/22 budget as well as correspondence with City 
staff.36 As noted, this analysis is designed to inform key planning and 
policy parameters associated with the General Plan Update. The 
information will be used to craft a preferred General Plan alternative that 
is fiscally sustainable over the long-term.  
It is important to stress that this analysis is being provided to compare 
the relative fiscal implications of the three General Plan alternatives and 
not for actual budgeting purposes. Thus, the results will not and should 
not be used as a basis for making actual, department level staffing 
decisions or annual revenue estimates. It should also be noted that the 
fiscal results (annual surpluses or deficits) are simply indicators of fiscal 
performance; they do not mean that the City will automatically have 
surplus revenues or deficits because the City must have a balanced 
budget each year. Persistent shortfalls shown in a fiscal analysis may 
indicate the need to reduce service levels or obtain additional revenues; 
persistent surpluses will provide the City with resources to reduce 
liabilities such as deferred maintenance, improve service levels, or build 
up reserves.  
262 of 509

--- page 263 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
111 
In addition, the findings are based on a set of “baseline” conditions and 
assumptions related to the key factors that affect General Fund costs 
and revenues, such as property assessed value, sales tax levels, state 
and federal budget and tax policy, and other factors. To the degree that 
these conditions change, the fiscal performance of new growth will differ 
from the estimates provided herein. 
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS 
Over time, and assuming full buildout, all three of the General Plan 
alternatives are estimated to generate more General Fund revenues 
than expenditures under the City’s current cost structure and service 
levels. Alternatives A and B reflect the most fiscally advantageous 
outcome for the City’s General Fund while Alternative C is relatively less 
fiscally favorable. These additional annual General Fund net surpluses 
range from $5.2 million to $8.1 million, as illustrated in Table 28, 
representing a 4 to 6 percent increase over the existing budget. Thus, 
implementation of any of the General Plan alternatives may allow the 
City to improve its service levels and standard by varying degrees over 
time.37 
The improved fiscal performance projected to result from the 
implementation of each of the General Plan alternatives stems, in 
varying degrees, from (1) an increasing orientation towards higher-value 
development and (2) economies of scale in the provision of public 
services. Accordingly, for each of the alternatives, the highest revenue 
sources are related to Property Tax. Simply put, newer and larger 
buildings tend to be worth more than older and smaller buildings and, 
therefore, generate more property tax revenue. In terms of department-
level costs, Police and Fire make up the majority of General Fund costs 
(approximately 60 percent of total expenditures), followed by Parks, 
Public Works, and general government functions.  
 
37 The fiscal impact analysis indicates that each alternative will generate net positive fiscal revenue each year at General Plan Buildout. If economic or regulatory conditions change or if 
development does not materialize as planned, the City may need to consider fiscal mitigation strategies. Such strategies could include Community Facilities Districts or other public financing 
mechanisms. 
As noted in the previous Public Services section, most City departments 
indicate the potential need for new public facilities and additional staff 
to serve new development under each alternative. This analysis 
assumes current staffing service standards (i.e., sworn officers per 
resident equivalent) and operating cost ratios are maintained as the 
number of residents and employees increase in response to the growth 
in the service population. However, this analysis does not estimate one-
time capital costs associated with new facilities. 
Table 28 
Fiscal Impact Summary of General Plan Alternatives 
Item 
Annual Fiscal Impact 
Alternative A 
Alternative B 
Alternative C 
General Fund Revenues 
Property Tax - Secured 
$22,140,000 
$26,760,000 
$31,880,000 
Sales Tax – Local 1% 
$2,710,000 
$3,450,000 
$4,300,000 
Sales Tax – 1/4 % Measure S1 
$710,000 
$910,000 
$1,130,000 
Property Transfer Tax 
$2,530,000 
$3,440,000 
$4,510,000 
Business License Tax 
$1,810,000 
$1,810,000 
$1,760,000 
Franchises 
$910,000 
$1,140,000 
$1,410,000 
Recreation Service Charges 
$610,000 
$830,000 
$1,110,000 
Permits, Fees, and Fines 
$1,480,000 
$1,930,000 
$2,460,000 
Total Revenues 
$32,900,000  
$40,270,000  
$48,560,000  
263 of 509

--- page 264 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
112 
Item 
Annual Fiscal Impact 
Alternative A 
Alternative B 
Alternative C 
General Fund Expenditures 
City Attorney 
$80,000 
$100,000 
$130,000 
City Clerk 
$60,000 
$70,000 
$90,000 
City Council 
$20,000 
$30,000 
$40,000 
City Manager 
$170,000 
$220,000 
$280,000 
Community Development 
$260,000 
$330,000 
$430,000 
Finance 
$280,000 
$360,000 
$460,000 
Human Resources 
$160,000 
$210,000 
$270,000 
Information Technology 
$290,000 
$370,000 
$470,000 
Library 
$1,770,000 
$2,420,000 
$3,220,000 
Parks and Recreation 
$4,100,000 
$5,590,000 
$7,430,000 
Police 
$8,750,000 
$11,350,000 
$14,510,000 
Public Works 
$2,780,000 
$3,800,000 
$5.050,000 
San Mateo Consolidated Fire 
Dept. Contribution 
$6,060,000 
$8,280,000 
$11,000,000 
Total Expenditures 
$24,780,000 
$33,130,000 
$43,380,000 
Net Annual Fiscal Impact 
$8,120,000  
$7,140,000  
$5,180,000  
Note: Property Tax in-Lieu of Motor Vehicle License Fee (VLF) is estimated to generate 
between $3.8 million and $5.4 million at General Plan buildout. However, it is not included 
in this analysis due to current concerns regarding the certainty of the revenue source.  
1 Although Measure S Sales Tax revenues are treated separately from the Local 1% Tax, 
they are included in this analysis to facilitate full evaluation General Fund resources 
Analysis by Economic & Planning Systems, Inc. 
The relative performance of various General Plan alternatives is driven 
by a variety of complex factors, the most notable of which is the type 
and amount of development envisioned in each and the resulting 
service populations. Given the current profile of General Fund 
expenditures in the City, nonresidential development performs better 
than residential development because residents and residential uses 
generate higher demand for public services than do businesses and 
their employees. However, high residential real estate values in San 
Mateo result in higher-than-typical property tax-related revenue that 
partially offsets the public service expenditures. Given these and other 
factors, Alternative C is expected to generate the highest revenues as 
well as the highest public service costs. Alternative B generates the 
second highest revenues and the second highest costs. Alternative A 
reflects the lowest population and employment growth and generates 
the lowest revenues and the lowest costs.     
Retail development can generate sales tax revenue, however, for this 
analysis, EPS forecasted the sales tax to the City’s General Fund based 
on demand from population and employment growth rather than new 
retail development. This is a conservative approach in order to ensure 
that the analysis is based on internal growth dynamics rather than an 
assumption that “supply creates demand,” particularly given ongoing 
trends towards online retail. Depending on the performance of regional 
retail developments and each retailer’s ability to capture regional 
demand, there could be positive sales tax revenue associated with each 
alternative that is not estimated in this analysis.  
POLICY CONSIDERATIONS  
The key General Plan related policies and issues that may be informed 
by the Fiscal Impact Analysis include, but are not necessarily limited to, 
the following: 
– 
Public service levels and standards: The level of service 
provided by various departments is often quantified based on 
standards or ratios (i.e., sworn police officers per 1,000 service 
population for police, park acres per 1,000 population, etc.) 
related to either articulated goals or actual conditions. The fiscal 
analysis can be used to highlight the fiscal implications of 
“business as usual” relative to alternative ways of providing 
services.  
264 of 509

--- page 265 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
113 
– 
Tax and fee rates: The General Plan can also articulate various 
goals or standards related to financing mechanisms and 
requirements to ensure fiscal sustainability, promote economic 
development, and other objectives.  
5.8 
MARKET FEASIBILITY 
This financial feasibility analysis provides a planning-level assessment 
of development feasibility for a range of residential, office, and retail 
commercial development prototypes at varying densities. These uses 
will be the essential drivers of the new residential and employment 
capacity supported by the General Plan Update. Table 29 summarizes 
the results of the financial feasibility analysis. 
Mixed-use development, a unique land use category, is a significant 
component of each alternative. However, it allows so much flexibility that 
it is difficult to evaluate a single prototype project that adequately 
represents all of “mixed use”. Rather, the feasibility of mixed-use 
development is better evaluated as “residential” or “office.” For current 
planning purposes, ground-floor retail contained within residential and 
office projects has a negligible effect on financial feasibility. It likely can 
be integrated into mixed-use projects as a revenue-neutral amenity. 
Other types of potential development not considered here include 
public and cultural amenities.  
Solving for residual land value, the financial feasibility analysis offers a 
static perspective on whether revenues from a completed, fully-
occupied project are sufficient to justify development costs. “Residual 
land value,” the key determinant of feasibility, is the difference between 
a project’s value and estimated development costs and represents the 
amount a project developer could pay a landowner for the project site. 
Land acquisition is a critical component of the development process. 
The residual land value must be sufficiently positive that the developer 
can pay to purchase the land. In cases where a current landowner is 
contemplating redevelopment, the residual land value must be sufficient 
to warrant the costs of redevelopment (e.g., buying out existing leases, 
demolition, etc.). 
While land values will fluctuate over time and based on parcel-specific 
circumstances, for purposes of this analysis, feasibility requires a 
threshold residual land value of $5 million per acre or greater. A residual 
per acre land value of between $3 million and $5 million is considered 
potentially feasible, while a residual land value below $3 million per acre 
means the project is not feasible.  
Development cost assumptions vary by prototype based on land use 
type, density, height, parking requirements, etc. Direct construction 
costs are related to construction types based on fire-resistance rating 
requirements codified by the California Building Code. Type V buildings 
are relatively simple, inexpensive, and uncomplicated to evacuate in 
case of fire. They are made of exterior and interior wood construction  
Table 29 
Near-Term Development Feasibility 
Land Use and Density 
Prototype 
Residual Land Value  
(per Acre) 
Feasibility Indicator 
Residential 
Low 
Medium 
High 
 
$3,400,000 
$12,100,000 
$1,300,000 
 
Maybe 
Yes 
Not Now1 
Office 
Low 
Medium 
High 
 
$5,150,000 
$30,400,000 
($42,930,000) 
 
Yes 
Yes 
Not Now 
Commercial 
Neighborhood 
Service 
Regional 
 
$3,180,000 
$5,200,000 
($410,000) 
 
Maybe 
Maybe 
Not Now 
Note: A feasibility indicator of “Yes” occurs with a residual land value of $5 million per 
acre or higher. An indicator of “Maybe” occurs with a residual land value of between $3 
million and $5 million per acre. An indicator of “Not Now” means the residual land value 
is negative or too low to acquire land and/or overcome the redevelopment barrier.  
1 Structured rather than subterranean parking would push the high-density residential 
prototype toward feasibility. 
Analysis by Economics & Planning Systems, Inc. 
265 of 509

--- page 266 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
114 
and can reach 60 feet in height. Type III buildings, typically wooden 
structures situated atop concrete podiums, allow for more height and 
density. They can reach 65 to 85 feet in height. Type I buildings are 
significantly taller and accommodate more occupants than Type III and 
Type V buildings. Therefore, they require more fire-resistant and more 
expensive material than wood. They are made of concrete and steel and 
can exceed 75 feet in height.  
Parking is another important development cost factor, with costs 
ranging from about $5,000 per space for surface parking to $65,000 per 
space for belowground parking. Surface parking is at-grade and paved, 
typical for neighborhood and service commercial retail. Surface parking 
is the least expensive to provide but requires sufficient land to 
accommodate the parking. Parking structures are situated above 
ground, sometimes as stand-alone parking garages and sometimes 
with residential or office uses above. They are generally expensive to 
construct but may make more efficient use of the land than surface 
parking. Subterranean, or belowground, parking is expensive to build 
because it requires site excavation.  
This feasibility analysis reflects that the alternatives will build out over a 
20-year horizon, so it does not consider potential development timing, 
market absorption, or the current regulatory context. For example, 
higher-density development may not be feasible today, both in light of 
current real estate market conditions and Measure Y height and density 
limits, but likely is a longer-term opportunity that will become more 
feasible between now and 2040.  
There are a number of additional analytical caveats that affect financial 
feasibility in this analysis:  
– 
The 10 General Plan Study Areas will require public realm 
investments to achieve their full potential. The development 
costs considered in the analysis include unique costs 
associated with new streets and infrastructure connections, 
though estimates are highly preliminary.  
– 
The analysis focuses on individual prototype projects. The 
timing of revenues and timing of costs for infrastructure are 
beyond the scope of this analysis.  
– 
The analysis does not seek to analyze prototype development 
on any particular site. Unique and challenging redevelopment 
projects such as those contemplated on key sites in San Mateo 
will require strategic execution. To achieve financial feasibility, 
successful redevelopment projects will require expert market 
positioning, branding, promotion, and operations. 
This alternatives evaluation was prepared as the nation and world 
continue to address the coronavirus pandemic, an unprecedented 
public health crisis. Research for this memorandum was completed as 
the Bay Area, generally, appears to be emerging from the worst of it. 
However, given that the length and severity of the coronavirus pandemic 
may still not be fully known, economic implications will depend 
fundamentally on how the crisis unfolds. The current consensus is that 
negative economic impacts are likely to dissipate gradually, although 
the exact pace and timeframe for full economic recovery remain unclear. 
This analysis assumes that the General Plan buildout may take several 
decades. In this time, the recent effects of the coronavirus pandemic, 
which accelerated trends relating to the demand for office and 
commercial uses (e.g., gig economy, remote work, online shopping, 
etc.), likely will be superseded by other social and economic trends that 
are difficult or impossible to predict. 
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS 
Based on current market rents and current development costs, the mix 
of land use and density designations suggest Alternative B offers the 
greatest potential for near-term development feasibility due to the 
current feasibility of most midrange-height developments, followed by 
Alternative C and then Alternative A.  
266 of 509

--- page 267 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
115 
The medium-density residential and low- and medium-density office 
prototypes appear feasible under current market conditions. The low-
density residential and the neighborhood and service retail commercial 
prototypes may be feasible depending on the cost of the land. Currently, 
residual land values for high-density residential and high-density office 
are negative or barely positive, so these development types are 
currently not feasible. However, a less expensive structured parking 
solution rather than costlier subterranean parking would push the high-
density residential prototype toward feasibility.  
– 
For residential developers, medium-density development 
appears feasible, while lower-density development may be 
feasible depending on land costs. High-density residential 
development is not feasible at this time but could be with a more 
cost-effective parking solution (e.g., structured rather than 
subterranean).  
– 
The medium-density residential prototype (four to seven stories) 
maximizes residential real estate feasibility under current market 
conditions. The analysis shows that residential towers (8+ 
stories) likely are currently financially infeasible; however, 
additional height allowances could be desirable in the future, 
should values increase relative to costs. The medium- and high-
density prototypes support nearly identical rental income per 
square foot, but high-density development costs are 
significantly higher as the construction type transitions from Type 
V to Type I. For low-density residential development (defined as 
one to three stories), the residual land value is positive but may 
not be sufficient given current land values.  
– 
Current market conditions support low- and medium-density 
office development but do not yet support high-density office of 
more than eight stories.  
– 
Revenue potential and current development costs support the 
near-term feasibility of low- and medium-density office 
development. In contrast, the rent premium for high-density 
office in San Mateo is insufficient to justify the much higher 
development costs associated with Type I office construction, 
the parking ratio requirement, and the subterranean parking that 
likely would be necessary.  
– 
The neighborhood and service retail commercial development 
prototypes generate positive residual land values under current 
market values, which may support redevelopment of an existing 
property but do not justify land/property acquisition.   
– 
Neighborhood and service retail commercial may be feasible, 
depending on the specific circumstances of the developer. If the 
developer is also the landowner, redevelopment of the site may 
be feasible, but if a developer needs to purchase the land, the 
residual land value may not be enough to incentivize the current 
landowner to sell. Regional retail development faces the 
additional barrier of high structured parking costs. Providing 
parking is expensive in general, and the amount needed for 
large regional shopping centers limits financial feasibility. 
Structured parking comprises 28 percent of total construction 
costs for the Regional commercial prototype, while surface 
parking comprises just 5 percent of total construction costs for 
the neighborhood and service retail commercial prototypes, 
making these prototypes relatively more feasible.  
– 
For those prototypes that face feasibility challenges under 
current market conditions, improving real estate economics will 
require shifts in the relative costs and revenues during the next 
20 years to push these development prototypes towards 
feasibility.  
 
 
267 of 509

--- page 268 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
116 
– 
Historically high development costs are creating feasibility 
challenges for the higher-density office and residential 
prototypes 
under 
current 
market 
conditions 
because 
construction costs have outpaced rent growth and revenue 
potential. While this trend is not new (rent growth has not 
outpaced construction costs for at least the past 10 years38), the 
dynamic worsened during COVID. While construction costs 
(labor and materials) are expected to moderate post COVID, 
creative approaches to reducing costs are needed. More 
specifically, subterranean parking 
significantly increases 
development costs and is not a realistic option in many cases. 
Planning parameters established for higher-density uses should 
contemplate above-ground, cost-effective parking solutions that 
multiple properties can share. Reducing parking requirements 
near transit and taking measures to reduce parking demand are 
alternative options for reducing costs. Lastly, alternative 
construction technologies, such as green construction, could 
maximize resource efficiency and reduce overall costs. 
– 
Overall, Alternative B appears to be more feasible under current 
conditions because it includes more midrange, medium-density 
prototypes across the 10 study areas relative to Alternatives A 
and C.  
– 
However, developing many sites with midrange heights and at 
medium densities in the near term would make it less likely that 
those sites would redevelop with higher-density development 
later on, even if high-density development becomes more 
feasible between now and 2040 due to changes in market 
conditions.  
 
38 Determined using cost trends from the California Construction Cost Index from the California Department of General Services, and CoStar Group. 
5.9 
COMMUNITY BENEFITS 
California cities have a long history of obtaining community benefits 
from real estate development through a variety of mechanisms, 
including fees, conditions of approval, and Development Agreements 
(DAs). Today, throughout California, new community benefits programs 
are establishing defined approaches to ensuring community benefits 
from real estate development projects.  
COMMUNITY BENEFITS DEFINED 
Community Benefits as defined here are contributions to the broader 
community, including but not limited to on-site benefits (e.g., affordable 
housing, day care facilities, community rooms) and off-site benefits 
(e.g., parks, transportation improvements). Projects may seek to deliver 
these community benefits directly. Alternatively, community benefit 
obligations also may be satisfied through monetary contributions to the 
City which accrue to a “Community Fund” to be dispersed as 
appropriate for the provision of community benefits within the City of 
San Mateo. 
Community benefits typically are achieved through an exchange in 
which municipalities offer optional increases in development potential in 
return for public assets (or funds) desired by the community. The 
incentive for the private sector to provide community benefits comes 
from the value that is created when a local jurisdiction entitles increased 
development density or provides other entitlement enhancements that 
increase the economic potential of a project. In order for extraordinary 
community benefits to be viable, entitlement enhancements must be 
above what normally would be allowed (i.e., a “bonus,” amendment, 
variance, or vested rights). The magnitude of the community benefit 
required by the local jurisdiction must be equal to or less than the value 
of the incentive offered, otherwise developers will not seek entitlement 
enhancement. 
268 of 509

--- page 269 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
117 
The current City of San Mateo General Plan provides a high-level 
framework for the provision of community benefits. For multifamily 
residential development, the Plan allows “a range of densities from 9 to 
50 units net per acre, with the higher end of the density range to be used 
only for projects which provide substantial public benefits or amenities.” 
For non-residential uses, a Floor Area Ratio (FAR) range of 0.5 to 3.0 
and height range of 25 to 90 feet is permitted, with the higher ends of 
both ranges “only for projects which provide public benefits or amenities 
substantially greater than code requirements.”39 The Plan also allows 
specific areas of the Downtown and Mariner’s Island densities of up to 
75 units per acre and heights up to 75 feet for projects which provide 
public benefits or amenities substantially greater than code 
requirements. 
 
39 Note that Measure Y limits development heights to 55 feet, with certain exceptions. Exceptions include development within the Hillsdale Shopping Center (Study Area 10) and some specific 
areas of Downtown (Study Area 4) where building heights of up to 60 feet and 75 feet may be allowed, respectively. 
While the General Plan provides this direction concerning projects that 
require community benefits, specific threshold triggers have not been 
established and the City lacks a standardized process for determining 
community benefits requirements.  
THE CONCEPT OF VALUE CAPTURE 
Cities and government agencies create real estate value with 
investments in public facilities and services (e.g., transit and utilities 
upgrades) as well as through changes to zoning code that increase the 
value of land. Typically, when the public sector creates value in these 
ways, landowners enjoy a financial gain in the form of higher land value, 
which is realized when they sell or develop their land. This increase in 
land value is an unearned financial benefit that accrues to the private 
sector, though it is generated (and commonly paid for) by tax-payer 
funded public entities. The term “value capture” reflects the situation in 
which the public sector recovers some of this unearned value created 
for the private sector through public sector activities. 
Zoning modifications and other entitlement enhancements require a 
healthy real estate market with sufficient market value to support the 
incentives. In order for a city to capture value from a density incentive or 
other incentive, there must be market demand to support the real estate 
products (typically higher-density, higher-cost) that are provided for 
through the zoning modification. If the public sector seeks to collect 
more value than is created it is unlikely that project proponents will move 
forward. Since the value of development incentives varies with market 
conditions, development incentives may be very valuable in a strong 
market but of lesser or no value in a weak market. Some community 
benefits programs seek to be highly responsive to changing market 
conditions.  
 
 
Community Benefits
Value Capture 
Land Value Creation 
Government Actions
269 of 509

--- page 270 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
118 
Community benefit requirements should be calculated to reflect the 
value of zoning modifications made available by the public sector. A pro 
forma financial analysis that estimates value creation resulting from 
zoning changes, over and above what zoning allows by right, offers a 
defensible approach to quantifying required community benefit 
contributions. To accurately estimate value creation, the analysis should 
reflect development challenges that may exist (e.g., site constraints, 
infrastructure shortcomings, required mitigations). Also, projects with a 
relatively high land cost may be financially unable to compensate the 
City for the full value increase generated by the desired zoning 
modification. In these circumstances, the City may choose to scale 
community benefits obligations in order to maintain the financial viability 
of the project as proposed. 
The magnitude of the public benefit sought must be equal to or less 
than the value of the incentive or entitlement enhancement offered. In 
order for community benefits programs to work financially, the public 
sector must create value through the provision of increased 
development potential, commonly provided as increased project 
density and/or height. If the public sector seeks to extract more value 
than is created, it is unlikely that project applicants will pursue a zoning 
modification. Since the value of development incentives varies with 
temporal market conditions, development incentives may be valuable in 
a strong market but of lesser value or without value in a weak market. 
Community benefits programs that rely on project-specific financial 
analysis to determine benefits requirements are responsive to changing 
market conditions, but it remains likely that these programs will not be 
used during periods of market weakness. 
As noted above, the type, amount, and value of community benefit that 
the City can extract from private development will vary dramatically 
based on the type of project, specific site conditions, and market 
conditions at the time of development. While Alternatives A and B may 
leave more development potential (i.e., height and density) to negotiate 
community benefits than Alternative C, it is not possible to make an 
accurate prediction of how community benefits will play out under each 
alternative over the 20-year timeframe of the General Plan.  
POLICY CONSIDERATIONS 
In the past, zoning modifications and benefits have been negotiated on 
a project-by-project basis, which has proved to be an opaque and time-
consuming course. The updated General Plan may want to provide 
further direction. 
 
 
 
 
270 of 509

--- page 271 ---
Alternatives Evaluation Report | City of San Mateo   
 
119 
 
6. Next Steps 
The goal of this alternatives evaluation is to help inform community input 
on what characteristics the preferred land use and circulation scenario 
should ultimately include. The results of the alternatives evaluation will 
be shared with the community at two virtual workshops on the morning 
of Saturday, January 22, 2022 and evening of Thursday, January 27, 
2022. This will be the same workshop, held twice to offer convenient 
options for participants. Community input will also be collected through 
an online activity. To register for the workshops or participate in the 
online activity visit www.StriveSanMateo.org.  
Following the community workshops, the General Plan Subcommittee 
will meet virtually in February and March 2022 to review the outcomes 
of the draft alternatives evaluation, receive and review community input 
on the preferred land use and circulation scenario, and provide 
feedback on the preferred land use and circulation scenario.  
Following the General Plan Subcommittee meeting, the Planning 
Commission will review community and General Plan Subcommittee 
feedback and make a recommendation on the preferred land use and 
circulation scenario to the City Council. 
The City Council will review community and General Plan Subcommittee 
input and the Planning Commission recommendation and provide final 
direction on the preferred land use and circulation scenario.  
Once the Council provides direction on the preferred land use and 
circulation scenario, the General Plan team will analyze the potential 
environmental impacts of the preferred scenario. The results of this 
analysis will be shared in the Draft Environmental Impact Report (EIR) 
which will be published in Fall 2023.  
From Summer 2022 through Winter 2023 (prior to the publication of the 
Draft EIR), the General Plan team will work with the community, General 
Plan Subcommittee, Planning Commission, and City Council to develop 
goals, policies, and actions for the range of topics covered by the 
General Plan. These topics include climate change, environmental 
justice, equity, urban design, historic resources, biological and natural 
resources, public services and infrastructure, parks, community health 
and safety, noise, land use, and circulation. The goals, policies, and 
actions will need to be consistent with the preferred land use and 
circulation scenario. 
To follow the progress of the General Plan Update throughout the 
project, or to reach City staff with a question or comment at any time, 
visit:  
www.StriveSanMateo.org 
 
271 of 509

--- page 272 ---
City of San Mateo | Alternatives Evaluation Report 
120 
This page intentionally left blank. 
 
272 of 509

--- page 273 ---
MEMORANDUM
DATE
March 31, 2022
TO
City Council
FROM
Joanna Jansen and Carey Stone, PlaceWorks
SUBJECT
Summary of Community Engagement and Public Input on the Preferred Land Use and 
Circulation Scenario
This memorandum summarizes the community input received on the preferred land use and circulation 
scenario from the recent Preferred Scenario workshop series and online survey, as well as feedback 
received to date on the preferred land use and circulation alternatives from pop-up events and past 
outreach events. These events are listed below. 
Date
Outreach Event
Number of 
Participants
Tuesday, March 3, 2020
Draft Alternatives Open House
29
Thursday, April 17, 2021
Draft Alternatives Virtual Workshop #1
95
Saturday, April 17, 2021
Draft Alternatives Virtual Workshop #2
50
Tuesday, May 18, 2021
Draft Alternatives Virtual Workshop #3
40
Tuesday, April 14, 2021 –
Monday, May 31, 2021
Draft Alternatives Online Survey
507
Sunday, January 22, 2022
Preferred Scenario Virtual Workshop #1
47
Thursday, January 27, 2022
Preferred Scenario Virtual Workshop #2
46
Thursday, February 24, 2022
Spanish-language General Plan Workshop 
5
Thursday, February 24, 2022
Pop-up near Mi Rancho Market
10
Friday, February 25, 2022
Pop-up at Chavez Market
10
Monday, March 7, 2022
Food Distribution Event at Rogell Bayshore
7
Monday, March 7, 2022
College of San Mateo Pop-up
10
Friday, January 21, 2022 –
Tuesday, March 8, 2022
Preferred Scenario Online Survey
404
273 of 509

--- page 274 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 2
About the Workshops, Pop-Ups, and Online Survey
The draft alternatives workshop series occurred in spring of 2021. The goal of the draft alternatives 
workshops and online survey was to confirm we are considering a sufficient range of alternatives before 
the General Plan team conducts an in-depth evaluation to compare the pros, cons, and outcomes of 
each alternative on housing, character, traffic, public services, health and equity, environmental 
sustainability, City’s fiscal health, conformance with applicable state laws, and other topics. Feedback 
that expresses support or dislike for a given alternative from this outreach effort is included in this 
meeting summary. 
After listening to the community’s input and receiving direction from the City Council on the three 
alternative plans for land use and circulation in fall of 2021, the project team completed the alternatives 
evaluation and published the evaluation on January 14, 2022. The alternatives evaluation was presented 
to the community at two virtual workshops . During the workshops, community members were able to 
share ideas on their preferred alternative and raise important issues they believe the General Plan 
should address related to land use and circulation. The feedback received during these workshops is 
included in the summary below. 
An online survey was also available on www.strivesanmateo.org from January 21, 2022 to March 8, 
2022 to allow community members an opportunity to share which land use and circulation alternative 
they prefer. Respondents can provide feedback on the land use alternatives at a citywide level or by 
study area. It also includes questions about the tradeoffs implied by different alternatives to better 
understand the community’s preferences. The settings of the survey restrict the number of responses 
to one per person and track web browser cookies to help ensure that each participant only completes 
the survey once. All feedback received to date from the online survey is summarized below. It is 
important to note that this online survey is not considered statistically significant.  
To help engage Spanish-speaking community members, a virtual workshop was held entirely in Spanish 
on February 24, 2022. The workshop included Zoom polls that asked participants to answer tradeoff 
questions and demographic information. The responses received in the Zoom polls are incorporated 
into the survey analysis below. The project team also prepared a paper survey that was translated into 
Spanish which included the demographic and tradeoff questions from the online survey. The paper 
survey was distributed at four pop-up events in the North Central and Shoreview neighborhoods. The 
Peninsula Conflict Resolution Center also distributed the survey to other community members in San 
Mateo. A total of 27 survey responses were collected as of March 30, 2022. The responses from the 
paper survey are incorporated in the survey analysis below. 
Lastly, this summary includes feedback from recent Housing Element outreach conducted by the City’s 
housing team to ensure we are listening to all the feedback that applies to land use or circulation. This 
summary documents community input whether mentioned by one person or many people. 
Community input submitted directly to the City outside of the workshops and online survey can be 
viewed at: https://strivesanmateo.org/documents/publiccomments/.
274 of 509

--- page 275 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 3
Preferred Scenario Outreach Demographics
A total of 103 participants attended the preferred scenario workshops and 5 participants attended the 
Spanish general plan workshop. During each workshop, the project team asked the following two 
questions to understand who was participating in the process and how to improve communication 
about the project moving forward. Responses received are also listed below. 
Is this your first time joining us for a General Plan event? 
Number of Respondents: 69
51 percent of the workshop participants were new. 
49 percent had participated in a pervious General Plan meeting.
What kind of stakeholder are you? 
Number of Respondents: 69
1%
4%
7%
7%
12%
14%
14%
42%
48%
I am a representative of a homeowners association
I...
I own a business here
I am a representative of another organization/group
I am a renter
I work here
I am a visitor or patronize San Mateo businesses
I am a resident 
I own property here
A total of 495 participants answered voluntary demographic questions as part of the online survey, 
virtual workshops, and pop-up events. The demographic data helps the project team to determine if 
the outreach program is reaching the full range of San Mateo’s demographics. This data indicates that 
the outreach program should be adjusted to increase involvement of renters, younger residents, and 
residents who identify as Asian, Black/African American, Hispanic/Latino, Pacific Islander, and mixed 
race. A summary of the demographics of the outreach participants is presented below. Participants in 
the online survey, virtual workshops and pop-up events were asked about their age, ethnicity, and 
current housing situation. Workshop participants were also asked about their household income and 
length of residents. Participants in the Spanish speaking workshops were asked about length of 
residence only. 
275 of 509

--- page 276 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 4
How long have you lived in San Mateo? 
Number of Respondents: 472
Note: The 11 to 15 years response was inadvertently left out as a response option when the online survey was originally published on 
January 21, 2022. This response was added as a survey choice on January 27, 2022. 
How are you affiliated with San Mateo? 
Number of Respondents: 393
9%
2%
10%
12%
7%
60%
I do not live in San Mateo
Less than 1 year
1 to 5 years
6 to 10 years
11 to 15 years
More than 15 years
62%
28%
5%
3%
2%
I live in San Mateo I live and work in 
San Mateo
Other 
I visit San Mateo 
to shop or dine
I work in San 
Mateo
276 of 509

--- page 277 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 5
Which best describes your current housing situation? 
Number of Respondents: 491
Own my home, 
78%
Pay rent for my 
home, 19%
Live with others, 
and do not own or 
pay rent, 3%
Owner Occupied
 54%
Renter Occupied 
 46%
City of San Mateo, 2019
277 of 509

--- page 278 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 6
What is your age group? 
Number of Respondents: 495
0.2%
11%
29%
30%
30%
0-20 years
20-35 years
35-50 years
50-65 years
65+ years
27%
17%
15%
13%
12%
15%
0-25 years
25-34 years
35-44 years
45-54 years
55-64 years
65+ years
City of San Mateo, 2019
278 of 509

--- page 279 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 7
What is your race or ethnicity? (Check all that apply). 
Number of Respondents: 462
0%
26%
2%
25%
6%
41%
American Indian or Alaska Native
Asian / API, Non-Hispanic
Black or African American
Hispanic or Latinx
Other Race or Multiple
White, Non-Hispanic
City of San Mateo, 2019
1%
1%
1%
11%
11%
12%
68%
Native American
Black/African American
Pacific Islander
Latino/Hispanic
Mixed or other
Asian
White
279 of 509

--- page 280 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 8
Which best describes your household annual income? 
Number of Respondents: 454
2%
6%
10%
10%
6%
33%
33%
Less than $45,000
$45,000-$80,000
$80,000-$115,000
$115,000-$150,000
$150,000-$185,000
Greater than $185,000
Prefer not to say
19%
10%
5%
16%
50%
Less than $50,000
$50,000-$74,999
$75,000-$99,999
$100,000-$149,999
$150,000 or more
City of San Mateo, 2019
280 of 509

--- page 281 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 9
Feedback on Tradeoffs
The preferred scenario online survey asked participants about circulation and land use tradeoffs to 
help understand the community’s priorities and guide decision-making.  As mentioned above, a total 
of 404 online surveys were completed between Friday, January 21, 2022 through Tuesday, March 8, 
2022. The paper survey also asked participants the tradeoff questions listed below and the responses 
received are incorporated into the results. Attendees of the Spanish general plan workshop were 
asked the same tradeoff questions, except a few of the questions were reworded to “top choice” 
instead of “rank” and “pick top three”. The responses received from the Spanish general plan 
workshop are incorporated into the graph when the question was the same as the surveys. Notes are 
added wherever the questions differed.
Rank how you would allocate City budget spending on transportation improvements. 
Number of Respondents: 411
Responses ranked as follows: 
1.
Pedestrian improvements 
2.
Improving bicycle, pedestrian, and vehicle connections to transit 
3.
Improvements to make driving a vehicle easier 
4.
New and improved bicycle lanes and bicycle parking 
5.
Studying future transportation technologies 
Attendees of the Spanish general plan workshop were asked to pick the top transportation 
improvement they would like the City to spend budget on. A total of four attendees responded to the 
question and all four selected pedestrian improvements as their top choice. 
Because there is limited space in the public right of way on City streets, there are 
tradeoffs to the improvements that can be constructed. Knowing this, what top three 
transportation options would you prioritize for each type of street listed below? 
281 of 509

--- page 282 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 10
El Camino Real 
Number of Respondents: 420
7%
37%
37%
46%
46%
54%
60%
Other (please specify)
Preserve or add parking spaces
Add bicycle lanes
Maintain or add vehicle travel lanes
Enhance public transit (i.e. bus rapid transit)
Maintain or add landscaping, lighting, and street 
trees
Add or improve pedestrian sidewalks
Attendees of the Spanish General Plan workshop were asked to pick the top transportation 
improvement they would like to see on El Camino Real. A total of two attendees responded to the 
question. One selected adding or improving pedestrian sidewalks and the other chose maintain or add 
landscaping, lighting, and street trees.  
Other responses submitted by participants: 

No left turns during peak traffic times and only allow left turns where there is a designated 
left turn lane. Do not allow left turns at the intersections of El Cerrito Avenue/El Camino Real 
and Baywood Avenue/Baldwin Avenue/El Camino Real. 

More efficient Iight synchronization to improve traffic flow, especially on El Camino Real. 

Increase frequency of bus service everywhere.

Safer intersections that include crosswalk markings and speed control.

Create more pocket parks at perimeters of large developments instead of just center of these 
large developments. Also prohibit automotive repair businesses from using public parking 
spaces, public alleys and dead end streets to park cars they are fixing.

Add light rail with shuttles that connect to businesses.

Make 3rd and 4th Avenue one way in Downtown.
282 of 509

--- page 283 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 11

Add protected bicycle and scooter lanes.

Slow speeds on residential streets near schools.

Eliminate parking in congested areas, for example between 3rd Avenue and Baldwin.

Provide more places where U turns are permitted South of Highway 92. More protected left 
turn lanes are needed North of Highway 92.

Remove parklets that take up parking spaces.

Add bicycle and pedestrian bridges over El Camino Real, especially at 28th Avenue.

Repave El Camino Real.

Replace Eucalyptus trees with less damaging trees.
Main Corridors (e.g. Hillsdale Boulevard, Alameda De Las Pulgas, Delaware Street) 
Number of Respondents: 417
5%
30%
41%
44%
47%
53%
60%
Other (please specify)
Preserve or add parking spaces
Enhance public transit (i.e. bus rapid transit)
Maintain or add vehicle travel lanes
Add bicycle lanes
Maintain or add landscaping, lighting, and street trees
Add or improve pedestrian sidewalks
Attendees of the Spanish General Plan workshop were asked to pick the top transportation 
improvement they would like to see on main corridors. A total of two attendees responded to the 
question and both selected adding or improving pedestrian sidewalks.  
283 of 509

--- page 284 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 12
Other responses submitted by participants:

Traffic signals in high foot traffic areas (Barneson and Hillsdale High School).

Convert either Sunnybrae or Fiesta Gardens to a K-8 School to reduce the number of cars 
needing to get west of El Camino.

Study how the expected population will impact traffic. 

Connect shuttles with light rail along El Camino Real. 

Provide better avenues to Foster City. 

Make 3rd and 4th Avenues one way in Downtown.

Slow traffic speeds on residential streets near schools.

Increase police presence on the streets. 

Provide alternative modes of transportation for high school students. 

Restore turn lanes at Alameda De Las Pulgas and Parrott Drive. 

Clean the streets. 

Add parklets in front of stores and restaurants.

Add traffic lights on Alameda de Pulgas. Add speed bumps on Hillsdale Boulevard. 

Synchronize lights to improve traffic flow. 
Neighborhood Streets 
Number of Respondents: 419
11%
21%
26%
39%
43%
68%
68%
Other (please specify)
Enhance public transit (i.e. bus rapid transit)
Maintain or add vehicle travel lanes
Add bicycle lanes
Preserve or add parking spaces
Maintain or add landscaping, lighting, and street trees
Add or improve pedestrian sidewalks
284 of 509

--- page 285 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 13
Attendees of the Spanish General Plan workshop were asked to pick the top transportation 
improvement they would like to see on main corridors. A total of two attendees responded to the 
question. One chose add bicycle lanes and the other participant selected maintain or add landscaping, 
lighting, and street trees.   
Other responses submitted by participants: 

Streets are too narrow in north Shoreview. Remove parking from one side of the street.

Many corners do not have ramps which makes it challenging to walk with kids. 

Develop mitigation measures to combat ride sharing and delivery services that have made 
our streets more dangerous through the monetization of public infrastructure.

Add more curb extensions that are dual purpose stormwater capture and safety. 

Add more green bike lanes in high traffic roads. 

Duplicate San Mateo Drive pedestrian improvements in more places.

Convert lighting to motion sensor or bio-friendly lights.

Fix potholes and maintain streets. Improve signage.

Improve public transit connection to major thoroughfares using smaller transit vehicles.

Restrict or eliminate parking on narrow streets and close to turns/intersections.

Require property owners to maintain landscaping that impedes views for vehicles driving.

Add stop signs along Maple Street to slow the speeders.

Provide adequate and updated storm drains to handle winter storms.

Create dedicated pedestrian “green streets” for safe access across the city.

Divert traffic on neighborhood streets with families and young children during the weekends.

All residential streets should have sidewalks. 

Reduce speed limits.

Add traffic calming measures, including speed bumps and stop signs on Norfolk, Kehoe 
Avenue, Delaware Street, and Roberta Drive. Increase police presence and traffic violations.

Add sidewalks at every intersection within one mile of a school or park.

Provide free school buses for students.
285 of 509

--- page 286 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 14
Understanding the Preferred Land Use Scenario should plan for the next two and a half 
(2.5) housing cycles (RHNA) over the next 20 years, which could be 15,000 to 20,000 
units, how should those new housing units be accommodated?  
Number of Respondents: 414
12%
13%
16%
25%
35%
Other (Please specify)
Maintain current height limits, but explore increased 
densities (housing units per acre)
Explore growth beyond the study areas and increases 
to height limits and densities (beyond what’s currently 
allowed under Measure Y)
Focus growth within the study areas by exploring 
increases to height limits and densities (beyond what’s 
currently allowed under Measure Y)
Maintain current height limits and densities, but 
explore growth opportunities beyond the study areas
Other responses submitted by participants: 
Lower priced single family dwellings. Build more affordable housing.
Couple growth to increased public mass transit capacities. 
Stop building because we are overpopulated and overtaxed.
None of these seem reasonable, should redevelop older apartments with 10 units or less into 
more dense buildings. Tie density to lot size versus a blanket zoning designation.
Do not build 10 story buildings next to single family or small apartment units. 
Preserve setbacks for small parks, sidewalks and overshadowing of small homes and apartments. 
286 of 509

--- page 287 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 15
Explore re-zoning some commercial areas as mixed use and/or repurposing office complexes into 
residential or mixed-use instead.
Maintain current height and density limits.
Limit growth, maintain Measure Y and do not add more housing.
Preserve single-family neighborhoods.
Retrofit vacant buildings, old offices and commercial areas for new housing.
Review the validity of the City’s RHNA. 
Where should new multi-family housing be located (select all that apply)? 
Number of Respondents: 409
24%
56%
62%
71%
Spread around throughout the City, including 
single-family neighborhoods
Downtown or near downtown
Aging shopping centers and commercial areas
Near transit and along transit corridors
287 of 509

--- page 288 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 16
What’s the most critical risk from climate change that the General Plan should 
minimize? 
Number of Respondents: 417
28%
25%
52%
9%
Sea level rise
Increased wildfire 
hazard
Prolonged drought
High heat days
Attendees of the preferred scenario workshop series also responded to this question using an 
interactive word online survey on Social Pinpoint.  

Many identified sea level rise and flooding as a major risk. 

Some identified potential wildfires as a threat to the city, although one participant does not 
identify wildfires as a threat to San Mateo. 

Some identified sustainability and water shortage as a major risk the city should help minimize. 

Warming temperatures and lack of tree canopies was a concern. 

Pandemics, not having adequate housing, loss of historic resources, artificial intelligence, 
earthquakes, and high winds were also mentioned as a critical concerns. 
Other comments about climate change risk included: 

Flash flooding during high rain days. 

Traffic, congestion, noise, and air pollution.

All of these are critical risks that are a byproduct of climate change. Increase housing density 
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transit and logistics.

Start planning and funding for desalinization to deal with chronic drought.

Keep the power grid up and running with clean natural gas. 
288 of 509

--- page 289 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 17

Forest management that the governor cut back on. 

All climate risks need to be mitigated, we cannot focus on two only. 

Availability of utilities and waste treatment capacity.

None, the Peninsula will not be affected.

Base the decision on data, not what the public believes. 

Increase capture of water via new reservoirs.

Strive for zero population growth since people cause climate change. 

Climate change does not exist. 

Work towards getting cars off the roads to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 

More dense infill housing can combat climate change and hopefully mitigate sea level rise.

We need to improve biking and walking infrastructure to reduce carbon emissions from transit.

All this planning is taking away our freedoms. 

Concern we are turning our wonderful city into a cesspool like San Francisco. 

Skepticism about whether the city can make a difference in combatting climate change. 

Concern there is not sufficient water for all alternatives. 

Developers should contribute to funding this mitigation for sea level rise, rather than raising 
taxes on residents that live in the city. 

Keep the height of buildings and street size accessible for the fire department. 

Concern the City will go bankrupt.
Preferred Circulation Alternative
Most important circulation issue the General Plan should help the City improve.
This section summarizes the issues that community members raised either in the workshop or in the 
online survey. 
Alternate Modes of Travel
Safer walking and biking options.
Active transportation strategies to enhance pedestrian and bicycle connectivity.
Enable bike access as much as possible, especially east west access. 
Offer choices for people to travel on foot, bike, scooter, train and make these spaces safe. 
Incorporate different modes of travel with Green Streets principles.
Do not provide bike sharrows, install protected biking lanes.
Locate bicycle improvements on streets without loss of street parking.
Better crossings for pedestrians, especially near schools. 
Improve people’s ability to meet their daily needs without a car. 
Support for low and zero carbon transportation alternatives.
Create options for people who live more than 1/2 mile from transit and cannot walk or bike.
New bike paths should connect with transit and rest of the bike network. 
Provide protected walking lanes for pedestrian safety. 
Do not focus improvements in only one area of the city. 
289 of 509

--- page 290 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 18
Less dependance on cars. 
Transit
More frequent and reliable transit service, with service later in the evening.  
There is a need for east to west public transit access. 
Allow residents to share job shuttles or other shared transit.  
Bus-only lanes and more bus frequency, especially on El Camino Real. 
For regional transit to work buses need to run late into the evening. 
Provide transit access to BART and Caltrain stations and adjoining counties. 
Sam Trans needs more convenient routes that cover more of the city.
Educate and promote the use of public transportation and biking aimed at kids. 
Partner with Foster City to build public transportation to FC-Hillsdale that way Foster City 
residents do not have to drive to Caltrain or the Hillsdale Mall.
Accessibility for people who do not live near main corridors, including transit and bicycle paths.
Increase connections to transit. 
More accessible routes to downtown.
Vehicles and Roadways
Vehicle driving, road care and improvements. Add more vehicle lanes. 
Address traffic congestion, in particular along major corridors, near Hillsdale mall and 
Hillsdale/101 entrance and traffic flowing east to west. 
Recognize most people need their cars to shop, travel to work and school. 
Size of the street width that allows driving, parking and bicycle lanes both ways. 
Increased policing of traffic violators.
Synchronized traffic lights that prioritize public transit and bicycles. 
Maintain peak hour travel times in major corridors. 
In north central, traffic congestion makes it impossible to maneuver for all modes of transit.
Maintain flow and speeds of main thoroughfares such as El Camino Real, Delaware Street, 
Hillsdale Boulevard, and on/off ramps for Highway 101, 92, and 280.
Enhance the pedestrian crossings on El Camino Real.
Need grade separation on all train crossings. 
3rd and 4th Avenues should be one-way through Downtown. 
Improve Hillsdale Boulevard heading to Foster City. 
Lower speed limits. 
Parking
Provide sufficient parking, especially in downtown. 
Charge for parking garages in downtown to entice alternative modes of travel to downtown. 
Maintain on-street parking in areas that do not have on-site parking. 
Transform parking spaces into parks. 
Provide ample parking in new developments. 
290 of 509

--- page 291 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 19
Other
Focus on the needs of our senior population. Provide the ability for seniors to use private 
vehicles to access downtown if they are unable to use pedestrian or bike alternatives. 
Keep the East Bay commuters from cutting through the neighborhoods.  
Micro-communities need to be deeply involved in circulation changes to their community. 
Phase development to real transit improvements.
Accessibility accommodations. 
Vision zero to help reduce pedestrian and bicycle accidents. 
Fine cars with loud noise.
Preserve height limits and single family neighborhoods. 
More housing in areas that are near amenities. 
Keep the city clean. 
Good lighting. 
Flood zones. 
Police presence. 
Scooter accessibility. 
Running trails and paths. 
More greenery.
Ideas from the circulation alternatives that should be part of the adopted General Plan. 
Attendees of the preferred scenario workshops were able to share ideas from the circulation 
alternatives they believe should be a part of the General Plan. The responses are summarized below. 
Pedestrian and bicycle only streets and paths.
Better transit connections, especially from the east to west. 
More streets that are closed to cars in downtown.
High frequency bus access on El Camino Real. 
Autonomous vehicles that provide free shuttles to pedestrian only B Street activities. 
Pedestrian-friendly downtown and El Camino Real.
Bike share and e-bike incentive programs.
Address transit access for people that live in the hills of San Mateo. 
Make modal filters standard on side neighborhood streets.
Expand the pedestrian mall on B street one block west between 1st and 2nd avenues.
Support for a hyperloop or self-driving vehicles in lieu of public transit. 
Reduce the number of lanes on El Camino Real and prioritize bike and/or bus lanes. 
Support for on-demand rides, especially for seniors. 
New residents should not be able to own cars. 
Employers should provide shuttles to ease congestion. 
Do not plan for more congestion.
Incorporate traffic calming measures. 
Streets around schools should not be accessible by cars. 
Line transit corridors with trees. 
291 of 509

--- page 292 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 20
Preferred circulation alternative input from the workshops and online surveys.
The support received for each circulation alternative during the draft alternatives range workshops, 
preferred scenario workshops, and preferred scenario online survey is listed below. 
16 workshop participants and 178 online survey respondents prefer Circulation Alternative C. 
6 workshop participants and 159 online survey respondents prefer Circulation Alternative A.
2 workshop participants and 51 online survey respondents prefer Circulation Alternative B.
Key words or sentences used to describe the preferred circulation alternative. 
The preferred scenario online survey asks participants to identify a key word or sentence to describe 
their preferred circulation alternative. The responses submitted are summarized below. 
Enhance all modes of public transit, including bus, BART, Caltrain.
More clean alternatives like walking and bicycling. 
Prioritize road and bridge repair and build new roads when needed. 
Protect the Downtown's character of small and medium sized businesses.
Maintain character of historical housing previously zoned for single family only. 
Encourage higher density to encourage non-automotive transit. 
Make it convenient for people to get out of their cars.
Minimize new traffic but still meet the Fair Share requirements.
Encourage non-vehicle transportation. 
Prioritize bicycle infrastructure.
Support multi-modal transportation. 
Beautify the city. 
Provide a network of multiple circulation modes.
Prioritize vehicle and motorcycle use. 
Support emerging mobility solutions.
More lanes to reduce congestion. 
Build as much as possible. 
Improve regional connections.
Maintain sidewalks.
Reduce traffic flow and congestion. Minimize growth. 
Provide a walkable and bikeable city. Plan a walkable downtown.
Provide strong links to public transit.
Support public transportation. 
Reduce car dependency. 
Enhance safety.
Provide access for all residents.
Add one way streets in Downtown. 
292 of 509

--- page 293 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 21
Changes suggested to the preferred circulation alternative. 
Alternative A
Less cars and parking; add more bike lanes. 
More vehicle lanes. Do not remove parking for bicycle lanes.  
Less development. 
More protected bike lanes and bike treatments at intersections.
Add light rail along El Camino Real with transfer shuttles that connect to BART. 
Expand improvements to all walkable areas of the city. 
Allow scooters on sidewalks. 
No bike lanes on S B Street in the Hayward Park area.
Fix the streets and sidewalks.
Add regional connections to airport, BART and San Francisco Transit Center.
Add more connections for people walking and biking across freeways, train tracks and other 
physical dividers. 
Maintain flow and speeds of main thoroughfares such as El Camino, Delaware, Hillsdale, and 
on/off ramps for 101, 92, 280.
Safe alternatives for elderly.
Keep the connection at Campus Dr and 26th fire access only.
Provide enough parking access for those who want or need to drive downtown.
Alameda de Pulgas should have one car lane and one safe bicycle lane. 
Plan for lateral small autonomous transportation vehicles.
See Netherlands traffic engineering model: reduce the number of times any road user will cross 
path with one another.
Bikeway on El Camino Real, extend pedestrian mall on B street to 5th Avenue, more parklets in 
Downtown, more traffic calming in residential neighborhoods, pedestrian and lighting 
improvements near highway on-ramps.
Restrict commute traffic that cuts through neighborhoods. 
Consider adding bicycle lockers. 
Remove bikeways up Hillsdale Boulevard, 28th Avenue, and Fernwood Street. 
Alternative B
More green spaces. 
Intersection improvements and traffic flow. 
Decrease bike and pedestrian use. 
No closed streets in downtown area. Increase parking and vehicle flow in downtown. 
Encourage easy connections. Increase BART connectivity.
Change selected high-traffic corridors to one-way streets to improve circulation and maximize 
space use with bike lanes and sidewalks.
Bikeways on main vehicle thoroughfares will only impede traffic.
Improvements to sidewalks for better walkability.
Ensure sufficient parking and enable more friendly car traffic for those who need their cars.
293 of 509

--- page 294 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 22
Alternative C
More walkable city areas protected by trees. 
Make it easier for transit, pedestrians, and cyclists to get around safely. Provide more bike lanes, 
sidewalk improvements, and pedestrian paths/bridges. Add bicycle racks. 
Include the area around Hillsdale and expand to the west side of El Camino Real. 
Dramatically increase frequency of bus service.
Mandate electric car charging at all apartment buildings. Add more pedestrian friendly streets in 
downtown. 
Link a bike path with the Canada Road access on Ralston Avenue. 
Add bike lanes on Delaware Street for use by North Central cyclists. 
Take advantage of extra wide streets on Baldwin Avenue and 4th Avenue downtown for multi-
faceted, multi-functional, entertaining, and architecturally interesting pedestrian malls.  
Add free residential permit parking to increase usable space and limit the number of permits per 
household based on capacity. 
Provide more public parking for large work and business vehicles. 
Synchronized traffic lights that prioritize public transit and bicycles. 
All San Mateo train crossings should be underground or improved significantly. 
Need more designated left turn lanes on El Camino.
Align alternative modes of transportation with pick up and drop off at all schools. 
More parking structures. Maintain parking in Downtown. Do not reduce street parking in 
residential areas. 
Need a strong shuttle bus service from Study Area 6 to Hillsdale train station and El Camino Real.
Focus on improving roads and infrastructure, instead of public transit. 
Less bicycle lanes. Do not replace vehicle lanes or sidewalks on main streets with bicycle lanes. 
Better biking to schools.
More traffic calming measures.
One-way streets.
Land Use
Most important land use issue the General Plan should help the City improve. 
Downtown
Would like to see a vibrant downtown. 
Protect the Downtown to preserve the successful mix of small and medium businesses.  
More homes near jobs, transit, amenities and downtown. 
Housing
Add more housing, especially close to jobs and transit. 
Affordability of housing. 20 percent of new housing should be affordable. 
Aim to exceed RHNA for all cycles until 2040. 
Flexible zoning requirements for mixed use developments. 
294 of 509

--- page 295 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 23
Balance new housing while preserving existing housing. 
Address overcrowding and over population. 
Increase mixed use areas throughout the city. 
New affordable housing development should include services for residents and visitors. 
Avoid high density housing that dramatically impacts traffic. 
Quantity of housing should be kept to minimal levels that will still meet any state demands.
Make it feasible for affordable housing developers and private developers to build lower-cost 
housing, especially missing-middle housing.
Single-family neighborhoods should allow multifamily, including in Aragon and San Mateo Park. 
Provide a mix of housing types within single-family neighborhoods. 
Address overcrowding and loss of single-family homes to multi-family. 
Adequate parking should be provided for new housing. 
Maintain single-family neighborhoods as they currently are. 
Protect all single family neighborhoods, including in and adjacent to North Central San Mateo, 
similar to the other side of El Camino Real.
Increase the required percentage of affordable housing.
More mid-level homes that are three to five stories in height. 
Seek State funding as a permanent source of funding for affordable housing.
Workforce housing with three to four bedrooms is needed for families.  
Transit
Need more transit-supportive land uses for SamTrans and Caltrain to increase transit service.
Increase heights and densities around transit stations and main corridors like El Camino Real.
Locate multi-family and mixed use near public transportation and transit areas. 
Improve public transit near housing areas. 
Provide light rail transportation to all shopping centers and malls. 
Add pedestrian and bicycle bridges. 
Amenities
More community gathering areas, open space, recreation facilities and parks. 
Bring culture to San Mateo by adding public art, museums and theaters. 
New housing should be developed in conjunction with amenities, such as transit, parking, open 
space. Do not build the housing first and add the amenities after. 
New multi-family housing needs recreational areas for families. 
Other
Mixed use buildings with retail on the ground floor, and housing above.
Keep heights as is, there are too many tall buildings. 
Measure Y height restrictions must be withdrawn.  
Maintain current heights but increase density.
Increase heights and densities. 
Preservation and lack of open and green space. Require developers to preserve redwood trees. 
Slow and moderate growth. 
295 of 509

--- page 296 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 24
Protection and enhancement of the existing built environment, including neighborhoods, historic 
and cultural resources. Implement adaptive reuse. 
Neighborhood parking structures in lieu of on street parking.
Parking is an issue in neighborhoods because people do not use their garages for cars.
Address unused parking lots and aging shopping centers. 
Concern the City Council is only listening to developers. 
Increase the tree cover in the city. 
Require parking for new developments. 
Jobs housing balance. 
Provide nice outdoor dining areas. 
Availability of water and infrastructure. Consider impacts of increased density to infrastructure, 
roads, schools, water and open space. 
Plant trees and clean up the city. 
Increase seating areas along sidewalks. Add night lights. 
Traffic congestion. Add vehicle lanes and address parking. 
Make use of underutilized commercial areas. 
Fairness and equality for all residents. 
Pedestrian protection when walking from residential to downtown, Hayward park and Hillsdale. 
Expand the study area boundary to consider the areas west of El Camino Real. 
Address parks, open space and landscaping. 
Do not allow people to pitch tents in public areas.  
Address severe climate threats and public health and equity issues. 
Consideration of natural resources and climate change, including droughts. 
There are too many old commercial properties that could be repurposed. 
Slow growth to maintain city integrity. 
Do not add new businesses. 
Add restrictions on accessory dwelling units. 
Ideas from the land use alternatives that should be part of the adopted General Plan. 
Attendees of the preferred scenario workshops were able to share ideas from the land use alternatives 
they believe should be a part of the General Plan. The responses are summarized below. 
Focus on adding jobs and housing near transit. 
Housing diversity throughout the city, not just where transit is currently.  
Reduce size of unused parking lots. 
Increase affordable housing options. 
Support redevelopment of Hillsdale Mall to incorporate housing and supportive uses. 
Allow development to the next increment of density citywide. 
Housing densities need to be increased along Alameda and El Camino Real and within low density 
neighborhoods, including Aragon Beresford and San Mateo Park. 
Support for various housing types distributed throughout the city, including in San Mateo Park, 
Baywood, and Beresford Hillsdale. 
296 of 509

--- page 297 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 25
Create a special Mello-Roos community facilities district that allows higher heights/densities in 
exchange for paying a special tax to fund transportation improvements.
New development should be built at the same time as new services for the community. 
Support for new mid-level housing that is 4 to 7 stories tall.  
Mixed use zones should have a minimum percentage of housing with density bonuses.
Rehabilitating underused shopping centers and commercial buildings.
Consider impacts to schools as a result of new residents.
Keep the height limits as is.
More parks and community space. Parkland needs to be added in the San Mateo Heights.
Reduce or eliminate parking minimums. 
Support developers allocating 15 to 20% of new housing units as affordable housing. 
More pedestrian friendly areas. Walkability is critical moving forward. 
Housing at Bridgepointe is a great idea to slow the closing of retail.
Address services for the community, especially medical services. 
Provide housing for only city and county employees. 
Strike a balance between housing and preservation.
Preferred land use alternative input from the workshops and online survey.
Citywide 
The support received for each land use alternative during the draft alternatives range workshops, 
preferred scenario workshops, and preferred scenario online survey are listed below. 
28 workshop participants and 64 online survey respondents prefer Land Use Alternative C. 
12 workshop participants and 121 online survey respondents prefer Land Use Alternative A.
8 workshop participants and 43 online survey respondents prefer Land Use Alternative B.
Study Area
To allow community member to provide feedback at a study area level, the preferred scenario online 
survey allows participants the ability to choose whether they want to provide feedback at a citywide 
level or by study area. Of the 404 participants that completed the online survey 96 survey participants 
chose to select their preferred land use alternative by study area. The table below lists the number of 
participants that selected each alternative by study area. The land use alternative with the highest 
number of responses for each study area is shaded.
TABLE 1
NUMBER OF SURVEY RESPONDENTS THAT SELECTED EACH STUDY 
AREA 
Study Area
Land Use Alternative 
A
Land Use Alternative 
B
Land Use Alternative 
C
Study Area 1 – 
37
32
27
297 of 509

--- page 298 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 26
TABLE 1
NUMBER OF SURVEY RESPONDENTS THAT SELECTED EACH STUDY 
AREA 
Study Area
Land Use Alternative 
A
Land Use Alternative 
B
Land Use Alternative 
C
El Camino Real NORTH
Study Area 1 – 
El Camino Real CENTRAL
37
32
26
Study Area 1 – 
El Camino Real SOUTH
33
33
28
Study Area 2 – 
Bel Mateo/ Mollie Stone Area
41
19
34
Study Area 3 – 
Rail Corridor Area
38
19
37
Study Area 4 – 
Downtown
38
16
40
Study Area 5 – 
Peninsula Ave. Area
34
39
21
Study Area 6 – 
Campus Dr. Area
34
40
20
Study Area 7 – North 
Shoreview and Shoreview Area
31
19
45
Study Area 8 – 
Parkside Plaza Area
36
44
15
Study Area 9 – 
Hillsdale/ Norfolk Area
33
45
17
Study Area 10 – 
Bridgepointe
27
49
17
Source: PlaceWorks, 2022.
Key works or sentences used to describe the preferred land use alternative. 
The preferred scenario online survey asks participants to identify a key word or sentence to describe 
their preferred land use alternative. The responses submitted are summarized below. 
Well-designed growth with a meaningful number of affordable units. 
More housing and density.
More mixed use. 
Modern.  
Historic preservation. 
Slow or moderate growth. 
Balance and thoughtfulness. 
Responsible and sustainable growth. 
298 of 509

--- page 299 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 27
Pedestrian oriented. 
Protection of single-family neighborhoods. 
Visually attractive and interesting.
Consider impacts to infrastructure, water, fire and police. 
Lowest growth. 
Parks. 
Housing near jobs. 
Quality of life. 
Livable. 
Lower carbon emissions per person. 
Walkable downtown. 
Change office to housing. 
Public transportation.  
Parking and traffic. 
Concentrate dense housing and tall buildings in one area. 
Spread out change. 
Maintain height limits. No tall buildings, especially adjacent to single family residences. 
High density corridors with strong public transit and pedestrian services. No new high rises in 
downtown, density along rail corridor, maintain suburban character of downtown, focus growth 
in study areas: 2,3,6,8, and 10.
Maintain current heights but increase density.
Provide at least 15-20 % affordable units in any development of more than 10 units. 
Density, affordable, rugged (fire safe, flood safe, wind safe, sea level rise safe, of course 
earthquake retrofitted), and shaded by trees.
Equitable growth. Enable the whole city to grow organically by relaxing zoning restriction 
throughout, favoring housing and mixed use over office developments, and not relying on 
housing towers by train stations to solve the problems.
More updates shopping/stores in Shoreview area.
Protect the Downtown's character of small and medium sized businesses.
Multi-family that is built with families and children in mind. 
Retain historic neighborhoods. 
Maintain a community vibe.
Minimize new traffic.
Changes suggested to the preferred land use alternative. 
Land Use Alternative A
Change Office High to Office Medium at Borel in Study Area 1 – Central. 
More Mixed Use Low in Study Area 1 – Central. 
More housing and fewer jobs in Study Area 1 – Central. 
Change some commercial areas to Mixed Use Low in Study Area 1 – South. 
No new homes or less housing in Study Areas 2, 3, and 6.
Residential Medium should not be taller than 5 stories in Study Areas 2, 5, and 9. 
299 of 509

--- page 300 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 28
Add green space if the Hillsdale Mall is removed in Study Area 3.
Change Mixed Use High to Mixed Use Medium on 20th Avenue in Study Area 3.
Do not exceed 7 stories in height or medium densities in Study Area 3. 
Reduce Mixed Use High to Mixed Use Medium in Study Area 3. 
Preserve architectural historic buildings and minimize wind and shadow in Study Area 4. 
Reduce/retain existing heights and densities for Study Area 1 - North and South, 3, 4, 7, 8, and 9.
Fewer MTU/MDU housing for Study Area 1 - North. 
Consider changes along Alameda de las Pulgas since it is a major thoroughfare. 
Add parks and schools. 
Only allow single-family residential development and preserve existing single-family 
neighborhoods. 
Modernize current strip malls. 
Slow growth. 
Do not allow people to pitch tents in public areas. 
Allow duplex and multi-units in single family homes. 
Land Use Alternative B
Allow more housing everywhere. 
Focus on the missing middle housing.
Encourage conversion of underused commercial space to mixed use. 
Include ground level small service businesses and require affordable housing that includes 
parking in Study Area 1 - North.
More density and homes in Study Areas 1 - North and Central, 2, and 9.
Change Mixed Use Low with Mixed Use High in Study Area 1 –South. 
Add more height while still focusing on homes for Study Area 4..
Keep heights as low as possible in Study Area 4 and 6. 
Parks are needed in Study Area 6. Also provide bicycle and pedestrian only paths. Do not remove 
all office uses from this study area. 
Add commercial neighborhood at Norfolk in Study Area 9. 
More pocket parks in dead end streets next to railroad tracks. 
Expand density and height in new construction near transit, downtown, and in new area formerly 
used for alternative use
Avoid underground parking for shopping areas. 
Encourage moderate growth. 
Land Use Alternative C
More native grasses in parklands, expand park lands and open spaces, less concrete jungle look, 
tree lined transit corridors, community gardens and beehives.
Residential low rather than residential medium in Study Area 1 - North.
Commercial areas should be mixed use to allow businesses to have a second or third story where 
people can live in Study Area 1 - North and Central.
Reduce the number of jobs in Study Area 1 - Central.
Expand 41st Avenue and build up in Study Area 1 – South. 
300 of 509

--- page 301 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 29
Add more mixed use in Study Area 2. 
Add more densities and homes in Study Areas 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10. 
Reduce building height and densities in Study Area 5. Designate a park on San Mateo Drive 
adjacent to State Street to provide for public use. Change the Safeway to Mixed Use Medium or 
higher.
Reduce heights in Study Area 6. Consider changing designation to Residential Low. 
Insist that good design and quality building materials prevail.
Further expand boundary into single-family areas. 
Add more housing units and less jobs. 
Encourage moderate growth. 
Raise height limits and eliminate parking requirements. 
Add more mixed-use developments and apartments along El Camino Real.
Spread growth throughout the city. 
Increase density in the 1,000 foot radius north of San Mateo Caltrain station.  
Add a bicycle route on 28th Avenue. 
Feedback from Housing Element Outreach
The City of San Mateo is in the process of updating its Housing Element. As part of the update, the City 
is reaching out to community members to better understand their housing needs. In the fall, City staff 
and their consultant team conducted an intercept survey and received 156 responses. The City also 
had an online survey available from October 11, 2021 to January 16, 2022. The online survey received 
594 responses. Major themes that are related to land use, housing, and circulation are summarized 
below; questions and responses tailored to Housing Element content not relevant to the land use or 
circulation alternatives are not included.  
Housing Element Intercept Survey Results

To manage the production of housing overall, there was notable interest in in redeveloping 
existing properties that have potential for more housing (45%), creating accessory units on 
existing single-family properties (22%), and encouraging mixed-use projects that have both 
commercial and residential uses (21%).  

Construct new housing to address housing affordability. 

Redevelop around Interstate 280. 

More housing means more traffic and less parking. 

High cost of housing is an issue. 

Infrastructure development. 

Stop building. 

Remove height limit. 

Allow taller buildings. 

Include up-scale neighborhoods in zoning changes. 

Commuting to work is difficult due to traffic. 

Address traffic on Hillsdale.  
301 of 509

--- page 302 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 30

Crowded street parking is an issue. 

Address housing for people that are unhoused. 

Improve traffic flow through dense areas. 

More golf courses. 

Build more housing.
Housing Element Online Survey - Preliminary Results 

The top three locations to add more housing are: 
o
New housing should be walkable/bikeable to shops and services (53.8 %).
o
New housing should be concentrated near public transit (53%).
o
New housing should be located where it will have the least impact on traffic (38.4%). 
o
New housing should be spread evenly across all parts of the city (36.9%). 
o
New housing should be located where it will have the least impact on the environment 
overall (32.7%). 
o
New housing should be concentrated close to job centers (22.8%). 
o
New housing should be located near community services and parks (19.9%). 
o
Other (13.7%).

The top three strategies to manage the production of new housing are: 
o
Encourage mixed-use projects (50.9 %). 
o
Redevelop existing properties that have additional potential (49.1%). 
o
Increase the allowable density in areas that are close to transit (46.2%). 
o
Allow taller developments if they include open space (33.1%). 
o
Streamline housing approval process (26.6%). 
o
Create ADU’s on existing single-family properties (23.9%). 
o
Convert single-family homes into duplexes (15.0%). 
o
Other (17.4%). 

The top three housing types that should be prioritized: 
o
Smaller units that are less expensive (52.3%). 
o
Larger units for families and/or multi-generational (36.6%). 
o
Ownership units (35.9%). 
o
Rental units (35.8%). 
o
Preserve existing housing (31%). 
o
Adding units to existing single family properties (22.7%). 
o
Interim/transitional housing for the unhoused (21.8%). 
o
Housing assist for those with special needs (16.4%). 
o
Other (12.4%). 
302 of 509

--- page 303 ---
March 31, 2022| Page 31

The top three ways to address housing affordability: 
o
Incentives for private developers to build more affordable housing (44.3%). 
o
Locate affordable housing near transit and jobs (41.7%). 
o
Streamline residential approval process (29.6%). 
o
Develop programs that help people experiencing homelessness find permanent 
housing (24.3%). 
o
Encourage conversions of single-family units to duplexes in single-family 
neighborhoods (19.1%). 
o
Financial assistance to homeowners to add accessory dwelling units (14.9%). 
o
Other (19.3%).  

The top three ways to ensure housing opportunities are available to all members of the city: 
o
Ensure affordable housing opportunities are created throughout the entire city 
(51.1%). 
o
Improve infrastructure, transit and services in underserved neighborhoods (51.1%). 
o
Target outreach for new affordable housing to underserved groups (37.3%). 

Other comments: 
o
Preserve single family neighborhoods. 
o
Do not build new housing. 
o
Provide infrastructure for new housing. 
o
Allow taller developments. 
o
Need faster transit systems. 
o
Rezone vacant office buildings and other underutilized areas to residential.
o
Stop building  offices.
o
No more ADU’s. 
o
Make it easier to commute around the city. 
o
Ensure adequate parking is provided. 
o
Higher buildings in downtown. 
o
Create greened rooftops, living walls, and streets that can better manage storm water 
runoff and improve climate.
303 of 509

--- page 304 ---
Property Owner Land Use Requests
APN
Address/Location
Requested Land Use
Property Owner
Source
Study Area
Notes
39353010
BOHANAN HILLSDALE
2950 EL CAMINO REAL
Mixed-Use High
Bohanan Development Company Bohannon letter 2/16/22
3
Planning Commission supported this request
39353020
BOHANAN HILLSDALE
60 31st Ave
Mixed-Use High
Bohanan Development Company Bohannon letter 2/16/22
3
Planning Commission supported this request
39353030
BOHANAN HILLSDALE
60 31st Ave
Mixed-Use Medium
Bohanan Development Company Bohannon letter 2/16/22
3
Planning Commission supported this request
39353040
BOHANAN HILLSDALE
60 31st Ave
Mixed-Use Medium
Bohanan Development Company Bohannon letter 2/16/22
3
Planning Commission supported this request
39490170
BOHANAN HILLSDALE
41 HILLSDALE BLVD
Split - Mixed-Use High (east) and 
Medium (west)
Bohanan Development Company Bohannon letter 2/16/22
3
Planning Commission supported this request
39490050
BOHANAN HILLSDALE
61 HILLSDALE BLVD
Mixed-Use Medium
Bohanan Development Company Bohannon letter 2/16/22
3
Planning Commission supported this request
42121080
BOHANAN HILLSDALE
3590 EL CAMINO REAL
Mixed-Use Medium
Bohanan Development Company Bohannon letter 2/16/22
3
Planning Commission supported this request
42121060
BOHANAN HILLSDALE
No address-parking
Mixed-Use Medium
Bohanan Development Company Bohannon letter 2/16/22
3
Planning Commission supported this request
39360140
BOHANAN HILLSDALE
No address-Anna furniture
Mixed-Use High
Bohanan Development Company Bohannon letter 2/16/22
3
Planning Commission supported this request
39360160
BOHANAN HILLSDALE
3025 S. El Camino Real
Mixed-Use High
Bohanan Development Company Bohannon letter 2/16/22
3
Planning Commission supported this request
39360070
BOHANAN HILLSDALE
3111 El Camino Real
Mixed-Use High
Bohanan Development Company Bohannon letter 2/16/22
3
Planning Commission supported this request
32131650
850 Woodside Way
Mixed-Use (office + aff housing)
SAMCAR
Input to staff
5
(e) land use is Exe Office/High Density MF; 
PC recommended Mixed-Use Low
41330070
Park View Terrace
1501-1555 W Hillsdale Blvd
Residential Medium 
Jadallah
Wagner letter 2/28/22
Outside (near 
SA 6)
Existing land use is Low Density Multi-Family
35241240
PS Business Park
1670 S Amphlett
Mixed-Use Medium
PS Business Parks
Bayshore Commons letter 2/15/22
8
Planning Commission recommended Mixed-
Use High
35241250
PS Business Park
1700 S Amphlett
Mixed-Use Medium
PS Business Parks
Bayshore Commons letter 2/15/22
8
Planning Commission recommended Mixed-
Use High
35241260
PS Business Park
1720 S Amphlett
Mixed-Use Medium
PS Business Parks
Bayshore Commons letter 2/15/22
8
Planning Commission recommended Mixed-
Use High
35383200
Fish Market
1863 and 1885 S Norfolk St.
Residential Med. or Mixed-Use Med.
Windy Hill and Property Owner
Windy Hill letter 3/18/22
8
Planning Commission recommended Mixed-
Use Medium 
35243090
Crossroad Property
1825, 1855, and 1875 S Grant St
Allow by-right R&D uses. Increase bulk 
limits, FAR, and lot coverage.
Lesee (Reuben, Junius & Rose 
LLP)
Rubanlaw Catalano letter 3/15/22
8
Planning Commission recommended land 
use is Office High
304 of 509

--- page 305 ---
APN
Address/Location
Requested Land Use
Property Owner
Source
Study Area
Notes
35391090
1900 S Norfolk St
Mixed-Use Medium
Seagate Atrium GP LLC
Seagate Properties letter 4/7/22
8
Planning Commission recommended 
Commercial Service (letter submitted after 
PC meeting)
40102630
477 E Hillsdale Blvd
Residential Medium
477 Hillsdale, LLC
Gamelin letter 3/30/22
9
Currently proposed for a Residential Low 
land use
40102620
477 E Hillsdale Blvd
Residential Medium
477 Hillsdale, LLC
Gamelin letter 3/30/22
9
Currently proposed for a Residential Low 
land use
40102580
341 E Hillsdale Blvd
Residential Medium
477 Hillsdale, LLC
Gamelin letter 3/30/22
9
Currently proposed for a Residential Low 
land use
305 of 509

--- page 306 ---
COMMUNITY OPINION SURVEY
SUMMARY REPORT

PREPARED FOR THE
City oF SAN MaTEo

FEBRUARY 21, 2022

Bev
SDRUENORTH | coca”

aa R E S E A R C H 760.632.9900 www.TN-RESEARCH.COM


--- page 307 ---
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 
307 of 509

--- page 308 ---
Table of Contents
i
City of San Mateo
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
T A B L E  O F  C O N T E N T S
Table of Contents. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i
List of Tables  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iii
List of Figures. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iv
Introduction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Purpose of Study  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Overview of Methodology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Statistical Significance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Organization of Report. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Acknowledgements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Disclaimer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
About True North . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Just the Facts  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Quality of Life. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
City Services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Housing & Land Use . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Mobility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Communications  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Conclusions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Quality of Life . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Overall Quality of Life. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Question 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
What do You Like Most About Living in San Mateo?. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Question 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
What Should Be Changed?  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Question 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
City Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Overall Satisfaction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Question 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Specific Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Question 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Differentiators of Opinion  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
housing & Land Use. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Affordable Housing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Question 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Factors to Prioritize when Planning Housing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Question 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Building Height & Density Trade-offs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Question 9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Question 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Mobility  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Frequency of Mode Use  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Question 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Strategies to Reduce Future Congestion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Question 12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Active Transportation Trade-Offs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Question 13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Communications. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Overall Satisfaction With Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Question 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Topics of Interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Question 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Question 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
308 of 509

--- page 309 ---
Table of Contents
ii
City of San Mateo
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sources of Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Question 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Communication Preferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Question 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Background & Demographics  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Methodology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Questionnaire Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Programming, Pre-Test & Translation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Sample, Recruiting & Data Collection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Margin of Error due to Sampling. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Data Processing & Weighting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Rounding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Questionnaire & Toplines. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
309 of 509

--- page 310 ---
List of Tables
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 iii
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
L I S T  O F  T A B L E S
Table 1
Rating City of San Mateo by Study Year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Table 2
Rating City of San Mateo by Years in San Mateo & Gender (Showing % Excellent
& Good)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Table 3
Rating City of San Mateo by Age (Showing % Excellent & Good) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Table 4
Rating City of San Mateo by Child in Hsld & Adult Over 65 in Hsld (Showing %
Excellent & Good) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Table 5
Rating City of San Mateo by Ethnicity & Home Ownership Status (Showing %
Excellent & Good) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Table 6
Like Most About San Mateo by Study Year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Table 7
Changes to Improve City by Study Year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Table 8
Satisfaction With City Services by Study Year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Table 9
Satisfaction With City Services by Overall Satisfaction With City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Table 10
Amount of Affordable Housing in San Mateo by Years in San Mateo, Adult
Over 65 in Hsld & Survey Language (Showing % Too Little)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Table 11
Amount of Affordable Housing in San Mateo by Age (Showing % Too Little). . . . . . 21
Table 12
Amount of Affordable Housing in San Mateo by Gender, Child in Hsld & Home
Ownership Status (Showing % Too Little) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Table 13
Importance of Issues of City Development by Years in San Mateo & Overall
Satisfaction (Showing % Extremely Important) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Table 14
Importance of Issues of City Development by Age (Showing % Extremely
Important)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Table 15
Importance of Issues of City Development by Child in Hsld, Adult Over 65 in
Hsld & Survey Language (Showing % Extremely Important)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Table 16
Importance of Issues of City Development by Ethnicity & Home Ownership
Status (Showing % Extremely Important) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Table 17
Strategies to Reduce Traffic by Years in San Mateo & Gender (Showing % High
Priority). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Table 18
Strategies to Reduce Traffic by Age (Showing % High Priority) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Table 19
Strategies to Reduce Traffic by Child in Hsld, Adult Over 65 in Hsld & Survey
Language (Showing % High Priority). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Table 20
Strategies to Reduce Traffic by Ethnicity & Home Ownership Status
(Showing % High Priority)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Table 21
Effectiveness of Communication Methods by Study Year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Table 22
Effectiveness of Communication Methods by Age (Showing % Very Effective). . . . . 44
Table 23
Effectiveness of Communication Methods by Ethnicity & Overall Satisfaction
(Showing % Very Effective). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Table 24
Effectiveness of Communication Methods by Child in Hsld, Satisfaction With 
Communication & Survey Language (Showing % Very Effective)45
Table 25
Demographics of Sample by Study Year  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
310 of 509

--- page 311 ---
List of Figures
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 iv
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
L I S T  O F  F I G U R E S
Figure 1
Rating City of San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Figure 2
Like Most About San Mateo. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Figure 3
Changes to Improve City. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Figure 4
Overall Satisfaction by Study Year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Figure 5
Overall Satisfaction by Years in San Mateo, Child in Hsld & Survey Language. . . . . 16
Figure 6
Overall Satisfaction by Age & Gender  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Figure 7
Overall Satisfaction by Ethnicity, Home Ownership Status & Adult Over 65 in
Hsld . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Figure 8
Satisfaction With City Services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Figure 9
Amount of Affordable Housing in San Mateo by Study Year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Figure 10 Importance of Issues of City Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Figure 11 Support Concentrating Future Housing in Higher Density Buildings. . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Figure 12 Support Concentrating Future Housing in Higher Density Buildings up to 8
stories by Years in San Mateo & Age . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Figure 13 Support Concentrating Future Housing in Higher Density Buildings up to 8
Stories by Child in Hsld, Anticipated Years in San Mateo & Adult Over 65
in Hsld . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Figure 14 Support Concentrating Future Housing in Higher Density Buildings up to 8
Stories by Ethnicity, Home Ownership Status & Survey Language. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Figure 15 Frequency of Mode Use Within City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Figure 16 Frequency of Mode Use Within City by Overall, Age & Overall Satisfaction  . . . . . . 30
Figure 17 Frequency of Mode Use Within City by Employment Status & Ethnicity. . . . . . . . . . 30
Figure 18 Strategies to Reduce Traffic  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Figure 19 Support Adding Bike Lanes, Widening Sidewalks in San Mateo. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Figure 20 Support Adding Bike Lanes, Widening Sidewalks in San Mateo by Years in San
Mateo & Age . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Figure 21 Support Adding Bike Lanes, Widening Sidewalks in San Mateo by Child in Hsld
& Anticipated Years in San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Figure 22 Support Adding Bike Lanes, Widening Sidewalks in San Mateo by Ethnicity,
Home Ownership Status & Survey Language . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Figure 23 Support Adding Bike Lanes, Widening Sidewalks in San Mateo by Employment
Status & Work Commute Status. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Figure 24 Support Adding Bike Lanes, Widening Sidewalks in San Mateo by Traveling
Within City at Least 1x Per Week & Adult Over 65 In Hsld . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Figure 25 Satisfaction With Communication by Study Year  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Figure 26 Satisfaction With Communication by Years in San Mateo, Child in Hsld & Adult
Over 65 in Hsld. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Figure 27 Satisfaction With Communication by Age & Gender . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Figure 28 Satisfaction With Communication by Ethnicity, Overall Satisfaction, Home
Ownership Status & Survey Language . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Figure 29 Interested in Receiving More Information About City. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Figure 30 Interested in Receiving More Information About City by Years in San Mateo,
Child in Hsld & Adult Over 65 in Hsld . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Figure 31 Interested in Receiving More Information About City by Age & Gender  . . . . . . . . . 40
Figure 32 Interested in Receiving More Information About City by Ethnicity, Overall
Satisfaction, Home Ownership Status & Survey Language  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Figure 33 Information Topics Desired. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Figure 34 Information Sources by Study Year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Figure 35 Information Sources by Study Year by Overall, Age & Satisfaction With
Communication  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Figure 36 Information Sources by Study Year by Ethnicity, Child in Hsld & Adult Over 65
in Hsld . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
311 of 509

--- page 312 ---
List of Figures
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
v
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Figure 37 Information Sources by Study Year by Years in San Mateo, Overall Satisfaction
& Survey Language . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Figure 38 Effectiveness of Communication Methods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Figure 39 Maximum Margin of Error . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
312 of 509

--- page 313 ---
Introduction
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
1
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I N T R O D U C T I O N
Incorporated in 1894, the City of San Mateo encompasses 15.9 square miles in the San Francisco
Bay Area and is currently home to an estimated 105,661 residents.1 One of only two charter cit-
ies in San Mateo County, the City is governed by a five-member City Council, while the City’s
daily operations are managed by a dedicated team of employees that provide a full suite of ser-
vices to residents and the local business community.
To monitor its progress in meeting residents’ needs, the City engages residents on a daily basis
and receives periodic subjective feedback regarding its performance and policies. Although
these informal feedback mechanisms are a valuable source of information for the City in that
they provide timely and accurate information about the opinions of specific residents, it is
important to recognize that they do not necessarily provide an accurate picture of the commu-
nity as a whole. For the most part, informal feedback mechanisms rely on the resident to initiate
feedback, which creates a self-selection bias. The City receives feedback only from those resi-
dents who are motivated enough to initiate the feedback process. Because these residents tend
to be those who are either very pleased or very displeased with a particular service or policy,
their collective opinions are not necessarily representative of the City’s resident population as a
whole.
PURPOSE OF STUDY   The motivation for the current study was to design and employ a
methodology that would avoid the self-selection bias noted above and thereby provide the City
with a statistically reliable understanding of its residents’ satisfaction, priorities, opinions, and
concerns as they relate to city services, facilities, and policies. Ultimately, the survey results and
analyses presented in this report will provide Council and staff with information that can be used
to make sound, strategic decisions in a variety of areas including service improvements and
enhancements, measuring and tracking internal performance, budgeting, and community out-
reach.
In addition to gathering performance-related feedback, the survey was also designed to help
inform the City’s General Plan update. Like most California cities, the City of San Mateo relies on
its General Plan to guide decisions with respect to land use, development, mobility, sustainabil-
ity, and related policy matters. Although the City Council, staff, and consultants have played an
important role in gathering data and organizing the update process, it was the desire of the City
that the citizens of San Mateo be the true inspiration for the Plan. Accordingly, a portion of the
survey was dedicated to understanding San Mateo residents’ needs and opinions as they relate
to issues that will be addressed in the General Plan, with a focus on mobility and how best to
plan for future housing as required by State law.
To assist in this effort, the City selected True North Research to design the research plan and
conduct the survey. Broadly defined, the survey was designed to:
•
Identify key issues of importance for residents, as well as their perceptions of the quality of 
life in San Mateo;
1. US Census estimate, April 2020.
313 of 509

--- page 314 ---
Introduction
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
2
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
•
Measure residents’ overall satisfaction with the City’s efforts to provide municipal services, 
and their satisfaction with a variety of specific services;
•
Gather opinions on General Plan topics with a focus on mobility and housing;
•
Determine satisfaction with (and perceived effectiveness of) the City’s communication with 
residents; and
•
Collect additional background and demographic data that are relevant to understanding res-
idents’ perceptions, needs, and interests.
OVERVIEW OF METHODOLOGY   A full description of the methodology used for this
study is included later in this report (see Methodology on page 47). In brief, the survey was
administered to a random sample of 775 adults who reside in the City of San Mateo. The survey
followed a mixed-method design that employed multiple recruiting methods (mailed letters,
email, text, and telephone) and multiple data collection methods (telephone and online). Admin-
istered in English and Spanish between January 21 and February 2, 2022, the average interview
lasted 18 minutes.
STATISTICAL SIGNIFICANCE   This is not the first statistically reliable community survey
conducted for the City of San Mateo. A similar study was conducted by True North for the City in
2020, and many of the questions included in the 2022 survey were purposely tracked from the
prior survey. Because there is a natural interest in tracking the City’s performance in meeting the
evolving needs of its residents, where appropriate the results of the current study are compared
with the results of identical questions included in the 2020 survey. In such cases, True North
conducted the appropriate tests of statistical significance to identify changes that likely reflect
actual changes in public opinion between the prior survey (2020) and the current (2022), as
opposed to being due to chance associated with selecting two samples independently and at ran-
dom. Differences between the two studies are identified as statistically significant if we can be
95% confident that the differences reflect an actual change in public opinion between the two
studies. Statistically significant differences within response categories over time are denoted by
the † symbol which appears in the figure next to the appropriate response value for 2022.
ORGANIZATION OF REPORT   This report is designed to meet the needs of readers who
prefer a summary of the findings as well as those who are interested in the details of the results.
For those who seek an overview of the findings, the sections titled Just the Facts and Conclusions
are for you. They provide a summary of the most important factual findings of the survey in bul-
let-point format and a discussion of their implications. For the interested reader, this section is
followed by a more detailed question-by-question discussion of the results from the survey by
topic area (see Table of Contents), as well as a description of the methodology employed for col-
lecting and analyzing the data. And, for the truly ambitious reader, the questionnaire used for
the interviews is contained at the back of this report (see Questionnaire & Toplines on page 50),
and a complete set of crosstabulations for the survey results is contained in Appendix A.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS   True North thanks the City of San Mateo for the opportunity to
conduct the study and for contributing valuable input during the design stage of this study. The
collective experience, insight, and local knowledge provided by city representatives and staff
improved the overall quality of the research presented here.
314 of 509

--- page 315 ---
Introduction
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
3
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
DISCLAIMER   The statements and conclusions in this report are those of the authors
(Dr. Timothy McLarney and Richard Sarles) at True North Research, Inc. and not necessarily those
of the City of San Mateo. Any errors and omissions are the responsibility of the authors.
ABOUT TRUE NORTH   True North is a full-service survey research firm that is dedicated to
providing public agencies with a clear understanding of the values, perceptions, priorities, and
concerns of their residents and customers. Through designing and implementing scientific sur-
veys, focus groups, and one-on-one interviews, as well as expert interpretation of the findings,
True North helps its clients to move with confidence when making strategic decisions in a variety
of areas—such as planning, policy evaluation, performance management, establishing fiscal pri-
orities, passing revenue measures, and developing effective public information campaigns.
During their careers, Dr. McLarney (President) and Mr. Sarles (Principal Researcher) have
designed and conducted over 1,200 survey research studies for public agencies—including more
than 400 studies for California municipalities and special districts.
315 of 509

--- page 316 ---
Just the Facts
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
4
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
J U S T  T H E  F A C T S
The following is an outline of the main factual findings from the survey. For the reader’s conve-
nience, we have organized the findings according to the section titles used in the body of this
report. Thus, to learn more about a particular finding, simply turn to the appropriate report sec-
tion.
QUALITY OF LIFE   
•
San Mateo residents provided the most positive ratings for the overall quality of life in the
City (85% excellent or good), San Mateo as a place to shop and dine (77%), and as a place to
raise a family (68%).
•
Although still rated favorably by over half of respondents, residents provided somewhat
softer ratings for San Mateo as a place to work (62%) and as a place to recreate (59%).
•
Just over one-third of residents provided a favorable rating for San Mateo as a place to retire
(37%), although approximately 13% held no opinion or did not provide a rating. 
•
When asked what they like most about living in the City of San Mateo that city government
should make sure to preserve in the future, residents were most apt to cite parks and recre-
ation facilities and opportunities (24%), followed by shopping and dining opportunities
(16%), proximity to surrounding cities/areas (12%), and the open/green spaces and moun-
tains (12%). Other specific attributes that were mentioned by at least 5% of respondents
included San Mateo’s diversity of business, cultures, and activities (9%), small town atmo-
sphere (8%), low crime rate/public safety (7%), downtown area (7%), and friendly people/
neighbors (6%). 
•
When residents were asked to indicate the one thing city government could change to make
San Mateo a better place to live, now and in the future, providing more affordable housing
was the most common (19%), followed by limiting growth and preserving open space (13%),
improving public safety/more police presence (8%), and improving and maintaining infra-
structure, streets and roads (7%).
CITY SERVICES   
•
Close to three-quarters (74%) of San Mateo residents indicated they were either very (25%) or
somewhat (49%) satisfied with the City’s efforts to provide municipal services. Approxi-
mately 16% were very or somewhat dissatisfied, whereas 10% were unsure or unwilling to
share their opinion. 
•
Residents were asked to rate their satisfaction with 18 specific services provided by the City
of San Mateo. Although the majority of residents surveyed were satisfied with 13 of the 16
services tested, they were most satisfied with the City’s efforts to provide fire protection,
prevention, and emergency medical services (94% very or somewhat satisfied), followed by
maintain public buildings and facilities like City Hall, libraries, and parking garages (91%),
provide parks, sports fields, and recreation facilities (87%), provide paths and trails for walk-
ing, jogging, and running (82%), and provide a variety of recreation programs for all ages
(81%).
•
At the other end of the spectrum, respondents were less satisfied with the City’s efforts to
facilitate the creation of affordable housing (33%), address homelessness (42%), manage
traffic congestion (48%), and maintain local streets and roads (54%).
316 of 509

--- page 317 ---
Just the Facts
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
5
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
HOUSING & LAND USE   
•
Approximately two-thirds of residents indicated that there is currently too little housing that
is affordable for middle-income (67%) and low-income families (64%) in the City of San
Mateo.
•
When asked to prioritize among a list of factors the City could consider as it plans for addi-
tional housing units as required by state law, ensuring adequate water supplies (98% at least
somewhat important) was viewed as the most important factor, followed by preserving open
space and creating new park lands (97%), minimizing vehicle trips and traffic congestion
(95%), creating pedestrian-friendly areas that encourage people to walk rather than drive
(94%), and minimizing pollution and greenhouse gas emissions (93%).
•
When compared to the other items tested, respondents indicated that keeping building
heights low (68%) and minimizing the number of new units added to single-family neighbor-
hoods (68%) were the least important when planning for future housing in the City.
•
When presented with the opportunity to reserve more land for parks, recreation areas, and
community amenities and minimize change to existing neighborhoods, 63% of San Mateo
residents indicated they would support concentrating new housing in higher-density build-
ings downtown and near transit up to 12 stories. A higher percentage (68%) indicated they
would support buildings up to eight stories.
MOBILITY   
•
The vast majority of residents (87%) indicated they use a personal vehicle on a weekly basis
when traveling within the City of San Mateo, while 45% reported that they walk from their
home to a local store or restaurant at least once per week. Less than one-in-five respondents
indicated that they ride a bicycle or scooter (19%), use public transit such as a bus or train
(8%), or use Uber, Lyft, or a taxi (4%) at least once per week when traveling within the City of
San Mateo.
•
Among strategies the City could consider to reduce vehicle trips and mitigate growth-
induced congestion in the future, improving safe routes to school to encourage more kids to
walk and bike to school (84% high or medium priority) and improving sidewalks, crosswalks,
pedestrian safety, signs and infrastructure to encourage more walking (84%) were widely
viewed as the top priorities, followed by improving bus and shuttle services with more
routes and more frequent service within San Mateo and to neighboring areas (71%), provid-
ing financial incentives to encourage greater use of transit use (64%), and expanding the
network of dedicated bike lanes and shared lanes to encourage more bicycling (63%).
•
Sixty-four percent (64%) of respondents indicated they generally support adding bike lanes
and widening sidewalks in San Mateo, even if it requires removing a vehicle lane or parking
spaces in certain locations.
COMMUNICATIONS   
•
Overall, 62% of respondents indicated they were satisfied with the City’s efforts to communi-
cate with residents through newsletters, the Internet, social media, and other means in
2022. The remaining respondents were either dissatisfied with the City’s efforts in this
respect (25%) or unsure of their opinion (13%).
•
Thirty percent (30%) of respondents indicated the were interested in receiving more informa-
tion from the City.
317 of 509

--- page 318 ---
Just the Facts
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
6
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
•
The most commonly mentioned topics of interest were information about the City’s future
commercial and residential development plans (31%), affordable housing (13%), street/road
and infrastructure maintenance (13%), environmental issues (8%), public transportation (7%),
public safety/crime statistics (7%), and recreation programs (7%).
•
When asked to identify the information sources they currently use most often for news,
information, and programming in San Mateo, the most frequently cited sources were the San
Mateo Daily Journal and email notifications from the City, both mentioned by 30% of respon-
dents. These sources were followed by letters, postcards, flyers, or brochures mailed to the
home from the City (24%), Nextdoor (23%), the Internet not including the City’s site (18%),
the City’s website (15%), and friends/family/associates/word of mouth (15%). 
•
Respondents indicated that email was the most effective method for the City to communi-
cate with them (84% very or somewhat effective), followed by postcards, letters, and news-
letters mailed to the home (i.e., direct mail, 78%), social media like Facebook, Twitter, and
Nextdoor (78%), and the City’s website (72%).
•
Townhall meetings (52%), television programs (41%), and advertisements in local papers
(40%) were generally viewed by residents as less effective ways for the City to communicate
with them.
318 of 509

--- page 319 ---
Conclusions
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
7
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
C O N C L U S I O N S
As noted in the Introduction, this study was designed to provide the City of San Mateo with a sta-
tistically reliable understanding of its residents’ satisfaction, opinions, and priorities as they
relate to city services, facilities and policies, as well as topics pertinent to the General Plan
update. Whereas subsequent sections of this report are devoted to conveying the detailed results
of the survey, in this section we attempt to ‘see the forest through the trees’ and note how the
collective results of the survey answer some of the key questions that motivated the research.
How well is the City per-
forming in meeting the 
needs of San Mateo resi-
dents?
The two years leading up to the 2022 Community Opinion Survey were
punctuated by difficult and dramatic events in San Mateo. The coronavi-
rus pandemic that arrived in early 2020 has taken lives, threatened liveli-
hoods, and forced dramatic changes in the way residents live, work,
socialize, and play. Non-essential businesses were shuttered for weeks
or months at a time to curb the spread of COVID-19, and the City’s oper-
ations were also adjusted to protect public health and adhere to State
and County guidelines. Services that could be effectively moved to an
online format were able to continue in that form, whereas other pro-
grams and services were modified, curtailed, or canceled to protect the
safety of the public and City employees. Many city facilities were also
closed periodically to prevent the spread of COVID-19, including City
Hall.
Against this turbulent backdrop, residents’ opinions of their community
and city government remained positive. Approximately three-quarters of
residents (74%) indicated they were satisfied with the City’s overall
efforts to provide municipal services, whereas just 16% were dissatisfied
and the remaining 10% were unsure or did not provide a response. The
percentage of respondents who indicated they were very satisfied with
the City’s overall performance also increased significantly between 2020
and 2022, and satisfaction was widespread across resident subgroups
(see Overall Satisfaction on page 15).
The high level of satisfaction expressed with the City’s performance in
general was also mirrored in residents’ assessments of the City’s perfor-
mance in providing specific services, with the highest satisfaction scores
assigned to the City’s efforts to provide fire protection, prevention, and
emergency medical services, maintain public buildings and facilities like
City Hall, libraries, and parking garages, provide parks, sports fields, and
recreation facilities, provide paths and trails for walking, jogging, and
running, and provide a variety of recreation programs for all ages (see
Specific Services on page 17). 
The City’s performance in providing municipal services has contributed
to a high quality of life for residents. Indeed, the vast majority of resi-
dents surveyed in 2022 (85%) rated the quality of life in the City of San
Mateo as excellent or good, a statistically significant increase of 4% when
319 of 509

--- page 320 ---
Conclusions
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
8
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
compared to 2020. This sentiment was also widespread, with the per-
centage who rated the quality of life as excellent or good exceeding 75%
across every identified resident subgroup (see Overall Quality of Life on
page 10). When asked in an open-ended manner to describe the things
they value most about living in San Mateo that they would like to pre-
serve in the future, parks and recreation facilities and opportunities
topped the list, followed by shopping and dining opportunities, proxim-
ity to surrounding cities/areas, and the open/green spaces and moun-
tains (see What do You Like Most About Living in San Mateo? on page 11).
Where should the City 
focus its efforts in the 
future?
In addition to measuring the City’s current performance, a key goal of
this study is to look forward and identify opportunities to adjust ser-
vices, improve facilities, and/or refine communications strategies to best
meet the community’s evolving needs and expectations. Although resi-
dent satisfaction in San Mateo is generally high (see above), there is
always room for improvement. Below we note some of the areas that
present the best opportunities in this regard.
Considering respondents’ verbatim answers regarding what they feel city
government could do to make San Mateo a better place to live (see What
Should Be Changed? on page 13) and the levels of satisfaction found in
specific service areas (see Specific Services on page 17), the top priorities
are: facilitating the creation of more affordable housing, limiting
growth/preserving open space, addressing homelessness, managing
traffic congestion, maintaining local streets and roads, improving public
safety, and improving city-resident communication.
With the recommendation that the City focus on these areas, it is equally
important to stress that when it comes to improving satisfaction in ser-
vice areas, the appropriate strategy is often a combination of better com-
munication and actual service improvements. It may be, for example,
that many residents are simply not aware of the City’s ongoing infra-
structure improvement efforts, or the limits of what a city can do to
address homelessness. Choosing the appropriate balance of actual ser-
vice improvements and efforts to raise awareness on these matters will
be a key to maintaining and improving the community’s overall satisfac-
tion in the short- and long-term.
What criteria do resi-
dents want the City to 
prioritize when plan-
ning for future housing?
Affordable housing (or lack thereof) has become a hot topic in many
communities, increasing in saliency during the past few years along with
rising rents and home prices. When asked directly, most respondents felt
there was too little affordable housing (of any type) in San Mateo, and
increasing the availability of affordable housing was the most frequently
mentioned change that residents indicated would make San Mateo a bet-
ter place to live, now and in the future.
320 of 509

--- page 321 ---
Conclusions
True North Research, Inc. © 2022
9
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
When asked to rate various criteria the City could consider as it explores
different ways that it could accommodate future housing, factors related
to environmental sustainability tended to rise to the top of the list
among survey respondents. Of the 18 factors tested, ensuring adequate
water supplies was viewed as the most important factor, followed by pre-
serving open space and creating new park lands, minimizing vehicle
trips and traffic congestion, creating pedestrian-friendly areas that
encourage people to walk rather than drive, and minimizing pollution
and greenhouse gas emissions. When compared to the other factors
tested, respondents indicated that keeping building heights low and
minimizing the number of new units added to single-family neighbor-
hoods were the least important when planning for future housing in the
City (see Factors to Prioritize when Planning Housing on page 21).
The desire to preserve land for parks and community spaces was also
evident in residents’ willingness to accept taller, high-density housing up
to 12 stories (64%) or eight stories (68%) downtown and near transit if it
would reserve more land for parks, recreation areas, and community
amenities while also minimizing the impacts of new housing in existing
neighborhoods (see Building Height & Density Trade-offs on page 26).
What actions do resi-
dents prioritize for mini-
mizing vehicle trips and 
congestion in the future?
One of the key challenges when planning for population growth and
future housing is the issue of mobility. Put simply, adding housing and
people to a community will naturally lead to more congestion and
decreased mobility unless improvements are made to the transportation
system to accommodate the additional demand and/or vehicle demand
is mitigated through use of alternative modes. Accordingly, the survey
explored the types of actions and strategies residents would prioritize
for minimizing growth-induced congestion in the future.
Improving safe routes to school to encourage more kids to walk and bike
to school (84% high or medium priority) and improving sidewalks, cross-
walks, pedestrian safety, signs and infrastructure to encourage more
walking (84%) were widely viewed as the top priorities among the actions
tested, followed by improving bus and shuttle services with more routes
and more frequent service within San Mateo and to neighboring areas
(71%), providing financial incentives to encourage greater use of transit
use (64%), and expanding the network of dedicated bike lanes and
shared lanes to encourage more bicycling (63%). It is worth noting, more-
over, that 64% of respondents indicated they generally support adding
bike lanes and widening sidewalks in San Mateo, even if it requires
removing a vehicle lane or parking spaces in certain locations (see Mobil-
ity on page 29).
321 of 509

--- page 322 ---
Quality of Life
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 10
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Q U A L I T Y  O F  L I F E
The opening series of questions in the survey was designed to assess residents’ top of mind per-
ceptions about the quality of life in San Mateo, what they would most like to preserve about the
City, as well as ways to improve the quality of life in San Mateo.
OVERALL QUALITY OF LIFE   At the outset of the interview, respondents were asked to
rate the City of San Mateo on a number of key dimensions—including overall quality of life, as a
place to raise a family, and as a place to work—using a five-point scale of excellent, good, fair,
poor, or very poor. As shown in Figure 1 below, the majority of residents shared favorable opin-
ions of San Mateo on five of the six aspects tested, with the most positive ratings provided for
the overall quality of life in the City (85% excellent or good), San Mateo as a place to shop and
dine (77%), and as a place to raise a family (68%). Although still rated favorably by over half of
respondents, residents provided somewhat softer ratings for San Mateo as a place to work (62%)
and as a place to recreate (59%). Just over one-third of residents provided a favorable rating for
San Mateo as a place to retire (37%), although approximately 13% held no opinion or did not pro-
vide a rating. It is worth noting that the percentage of residents who were unsure or unwilling to
share their opinion ranged from a low of 0% for the overall quality of life to a high of 18% for San
Mateo as a place to work.
Question 2   How would you rate: _____? Would you say it is excellent, good, fair, poor or very
poor?
FIGURE 1  RATING CITY OF SAN MATEO
As shown in Table 1 on the next page, when compared to 2020, the percentage of respondents
in 2022 who offered ratings of excellent or good increased significantly for San Mateo as a place
to retire (+7%), as a place to shop and dine (+6%), as a place to work (+5%), and the overall quality
of life in the City (+4%). Tables 2 through 5, meanwhile, show how the ratings for each dimen-
sion tested in Question 2 varied by length of residence, gender, age, presence of a child in the
home, presence of a senior in the home, ethnicity, and home ownership. For ease of comparison,
the top three ratings within each subgroup are highlighted green.
24.5
26.2
26.1
17.8
18.2
9.9
60.5
51.1
42.0
44.4
41.1
27.2
11.4
18.3
16.8
15.5
28.0
22.6
3
3
3
3
5
1
10
18
18
3
1
3
10
9
13
6
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Overall quality of life in San Mateo
San Mateo as a place to shop and dine
San Mateo as a place to raise a family
San Mateo as a place to work
San Mateo as a place to recreate
San Mateo as a place to retire
% Respondents
Excellent
Good
Fair
Poor
Very poor
Not sure/Prefer not to answer
 
322 of 509

--- page 323 ---
Quality of Life
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 11
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 1  RATING CITY OF SAN MATEO BY STUDY YEAR
† Statistically significant change (p < 0.05) between the 2020 and 2022 studies.
TABLE 2  RATING CITY OF SAN MATEO BY YEARS IN SAN MATEO & GENDER (SHOWING % EXCELLENT & GOOD)
TABLE 3  RATING CITY OF SAN MATEO BY AGE (SHOWING % EXCELLENT & GOOD)
TABLE 4  RATING CITY OF SAN MATEO BY CHILD IN HSLD & ADULT OVER 65 IN HSLD (SHOWING % EXCELLENT & 
GOOD)
TABLE 5  RATING CITY OF SAN MATEO BY ETHNICITY & HOME OWNERSHIP STATUS (SHOWING % EXCELLENT & GOOD)
WHAT DO YOU LIKE MOST ABOUT LIVING IN SAN MATEO?   The next question in
this series asked residents to identify what they like most about living in the City of San Mateo
that city government should make sure to preserve in the future. Question 3 was posed in an
open-ended manner, thereby allowing residents to mention any aspect or attribute that came to
2022
2020
San Mateo as a place to retire
37.0
30.3
+6.7†
San Mateo as a place to shop and dine
77.4
71.6
+5.8†
San Mateo as a place to work
62.2
57.6
+4.6†
Overall quality of life in San Mateo
85.0
80.9
+4.1†
San Mateo as a place to raise a family
68.1
65.1
+3.0
San Mateo as a place to recreate
59.2
56.3
+3.0
Study Year
Change in
Excellent + 
Good
2020 to 2022
Less than 5
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or longer
Male
Female
Overall quality of life in San Mateo
88.8
87.0
88.5
82.0
86.4
85.9
San Mateo as a place to shop and dine
83.6
77.2
85.6
73.0
79.0
77.8
San Mateo as a place to raise a family
63.8
64.7
72.9
69.8
69.4
68.9
San Mateo as a place to work
57.0
63.7
56.6
65.2
62.9
64.6
San Mateo as a place to recreate
59.1
56.5
63.3
59.2
57.2
62.3
San Mateo as a place to retire
28.7
36.8
39.6
40.1
35.2
40.6
Gender (QD2)
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Overall quality of life in San Mateo
88.2
83.6
83.4
86.0
86.0
86.0
San Mateo as a place to shop and dine
86.1
81.8
75.5
77.1
77.8
70.8
San Mateo as a place to raise a family
69.4
62.2
71.8
73.5
69.8
67.5
San Mateo as a place to work
75.9
60.9
54.8
65.9
67.9
59.3
San Mateo as a place to recreate
67.0
54.5
60.7
62.1
62.8
55.2
San Mateo as a place to retire
54.5
30.6
28.1
30.7
32.1
51.7
Age (QD1)
Yes,
under 18
Yes,
under 6
None
Yes
No
Overall quality of life in San Mateo
82.0
76.0
88.6
84.5
87.0
San Mateo as a place to shop and dine
77.2
72.8
78.6
74.3
79.8
San Mateo as a place to raise a family
76.6
75.6
66.3
69.2
69.3
San Mateo as a place to work
68.2
65.6
61.2
58.1
65.5
San Mateo as a place to recreate
58.5
56.5
60.4
56.1
61.2
San Mateo as a place to retire
30.5
24.3
40.7
48.4
32.1
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Adult Over 65
in Hsld (QD5)
Caucasian
/ White
Asian 
American
Latino / 
Hispanic
Mixed or 
other
Own
Rent
Overall quality of life in San Mateo
87.5
89.6
80.3
80.7
85.7
86.1
San Mateo as a place to shop and dine
74.8
80.8
80.1
75.5
75.2
80.8
San Mateo as a place to raise a family
67.4
73.3
67.4
66.1
73.4
64.6
San Mateo as a place to work
59.6
65.4
66.3
53.1
61.0
65.1
San Mateo as a place to recreate
59.4
64.9
56.9
51.2
59.4
59.9
San Mateo as a place to retire
33.1
40.2
42.9
29.6
40.0
33.5
Home Ownership Status 
(QD6)
Ethnicity (QD12)
323 of 509

--- page 324 ---
Quality of Life
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 12
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
mind without being prompted by—or restricted to—a particular list of options. True North later
reviewed the verbatim responses and grouped them into the categories shown in Figure 2.
San Mateo residents were most apt to cite parks and recreation facilities and opportunities (24%)
as what they like most about living in the City of San Mateo and would like to preserve, followed
by shopping and dining opportunities (16%), proximity to surrounding cities/areas (12%), and
the open/green spaces and mountains (12%). Other specific attributes that were mentioned by at
least 5% of respondents included San Mateo’s diversity of business, cultures, and activities (9%),
small town atmosphere (8%), low crime rate/public safety (7%), downtown area (7%), and friendly
people/neighbors (6%). For the interested reader, Table 6 on the next page lists the top five
responses to Question 3 in 2020 and 2022.
Question 3   What do you like most about the City of San Mateo that should be preserved in the
future? 
FIGURE 2  LIKE MOST ABOUT SAN MATEO
23.6
16.0
12.8
12.4
11.7
8.9
8.3
6.6
6.6
4.8
4.4
3.0
2.8
2.7
2.5
2.5
2.4
2.4
2.0
1.8
3.2
6.3
0
5
10
15
20
25
Parks, recreation facilities, opportunities
Shopping, dining opportunities
Not sure / Cannot think of anything specific
Proximity to surrounding cities, areas
Open, green space, mountains
Diversity of businesses, cultures, activities
Small town atmosphere
Low crime, public safety
Downtown area
Friendly people, neighbors
Weather, clean air
Good schools
Clean, well-maintained
Sense of community
Access to bay, ocean
Access to public transportation
Affordable houses
Historical places
Outdoor activities
Less crowded, traffic than other cities
Family friendly
Availability of parking
% Respondents
324 of 509

--- page 325 ---
Quality of Life
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 13
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 6  LIKE MOST ABOUT SAN MATEO BY STUDY YEAR
WHAT SHOULD BE CHANGED?   In an open-ended manner similar to that described for
Question 3, all respondents were also asked to indicate the one thing that city government could
change to make San Mateo a better place to live. True North reviewed the verbatim responses to
Question 4 and grouped them into the categories shown in Figure 3. Among the specific changes
desired, providing more affordable housing was the most common (19%), followed by limiting
growth and preserving open space (13%), improving public safety/more police presence (8%),
and improving and maintaining infrastructure, streets and roads (7%). Approximately 14% could
not think of a desired change (10%) or reported that no changes are needed (4%). Table 7 shows
the top 5 responses to Question 4 in 2020 and 2022.
Question 4   If the city government could change one thing to make San Mateo a better place to
live now and in the future, what change would you like to see? 
FIGURE 3  CHANGES TO IMPROVE CITY
2022
2020
Parks, recreation 
facilities, 
opportunities
Parks, recreation 
facilities, 
opportunities
Shopping, dining 
opportunities
Not sure / Cannot 
think of anything 
specific
Not sure / Cannot 
think of anything 
specific
Shopping, dining 
opportunities
Proximity to 
surrounding cities, 
areas
Small town 
atmosphere
Open, green space, 
mountains
Proximity to 
surrounding cities, 
areas
Study Year
18.8
12.9
10.0
7.5
7.1
6.3
6.0
5.2
5.1
3.7
3.5
3.2
3.2
3.0
3.0
2.6
2.5
2.5
2.3
2.3
2.3
2.2
3.7
3.3
0
5
10
15
20
Provide more affordable housing
Limit growth, preserve open space
Not sure / Cannot think of anything specific
Improve public safety, more police presence
Improve, maintain infrastructure, streets, roads
Provide more shopping, dining opportunities
Reduce traffic congestion
Reduce cost of living
Address parking issues
Reduce taxes, fees
Beautify, clean up City
No changes needed / Everything is fine
Add, improve bike lanes
Improve, add parks, rec facilities
Reduce building permit restrictions
Enforce traffic laws
Improve public transit
Improve economy, jobs
Provide more activities, events for all ages
Improve schools, education
Address homeless issues
Improve City Council, gov process
Improve downtown area
Improve environmental efforts
% Respondents
325 of 509

--- page 326 ---
Quality of Life
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 14
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 7  CHANGES TO IMPROVE CITY BY STUDY YEAR
2022
2020
Provide more 
affordable housing
Provide more 
affordable housing
Limit growth, 
preserve open 
space
Reduce traffic 
congestion
Not sure / Cannot 
think of anything 
specific
Limit growth, 
preserve open 
space
Improve public 
safety, more police 
presence
Improve, maintain 
infrastructure, 
streets, roads
Improve, maintain 
infrastructure, 
streets, roads
Improve parking
Study Year
326 of 509

--- page 327 ---
City Services
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 15
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
C I T Y  S E R V I C E S
After measuring respondents’ perceptions of the quality of life in San Mateo, the survey next
turned to assessing their opinions about the City’s performance in providing various municipal
services.
OVERALL SATISFACTION   The first question in this series asked respondents to indicate
if, overall, they were satisfied or dissatisfied with the job the City of San Mateo is doing to pro-
vide city services. Because this question does not reference a specific program, facility, or service
and requested that the respondent consider the City’s performance in general, the findings of
this question may be regarded as an overall performance rating for the City.
As shown in Figure 4, close to three-quarters (74%) of San Mateo residents indicated they were
either very (25%) or somewhat (49%) satisfied with the City’s efforts to provide municipal ser-
vices. Approximately 16% were very or somewhat dissatisfied, whereas 10% were unsure or
unwilling to share their opinion. When compared to 2020, its worth noting that the percentage
of respondents indicating they were very satisfied with the City’s performance increased signifi-
cantly.
Question 5   Generally speaking, are you satisfied or dissatisfied with the job the City of San
Mateo is doing to provide city services?
FIGURE 4  OVERALL SATISFACTION BY STUDY YEAR
† Statistically significant change (p < 0.05) between the 2020 and 2022 studies.
The next three figures display how residents’ opinions about the City’s overall performance in
providing municipal services varied by years in San Mateo, children in the household, survey lan-
guage, age of the respondent, gender, ethnicity, home ownership status, and presence of an
adult 65 years and older in the household. The most striking pattern in the figures is that the
solid levels of satisfaction exhibited by respondents as a whole (see Figure 4 above) were gener-
ally echoed across resident subgroups, with satisfaction ranging from a low of 62% to a high of
90%.
53.9
12.4
8.4
24.5†
19.2
49.4†
10.6
5.3
5.2
9.5
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
2022
2020
% Respondents
Prefer not to
answer
Not sure 
Very
dissatisfied
Somewhat
dissatisfied
Somewhat
satisfied
Very
satisfied
327 of 509

--- page 328 ---
City Services
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 16
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FIGURE 5  OVERALL SATISFACTION BY YEARS IN SAN MATEO, CHILD IN HSLD & SURVEY LANGUAGE
FIGURE 6  OVERALL SATISFACTION BY AGE & GENDER
FIGURE 7  OVERALL SATISFACTION BY ETHNICITY, HOME OWNERSHIP STATUS & ADULT OVER 65 IN HSLD
22.4
18.5
26.7
24.3
27.8
50.5
52.6
49.7
49.5
48.2
23.7
28.2
23.1
Very
satisfied
25.9
48.4
48.8
49.5
Smwt
satisfied
49.8
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Less than 5
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or longer
Yes, under 18
Yes, under 6
None
English
Spanish
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Survey Language
% Respondents
18.5
24.6
27.8
23.1
52.7
52.4
50.3
48.9
Very
satisfied
52.6
24.8
23.4
18.3
Smwt
satisfied
37.3
56.4
46.2
49.2
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Male
Female
Age (QD1)
Gender (QD2)
% Respondents
20.2
29.9
24.1
25.5
56.3
43.2
48.6
51.1
18.9
32.5
20.1
Very
satisfied
23.3
53.7
45.4
43.3
Smwt
satisfied
52.8
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Caucasian /
White
Asian American Latino / Hispanic
Mixed or other
Own
Rent
Yes
No
Ethnicity (QD12)
Home Ownership Status (QD6)
Adult Over 65 in Hsld (QD5)
% Respondents
328 of 509

--- page 329 ---
City Services
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 17
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
SPECIFIC SERVICES   Whereas Question 5 addressed the City’s overall performance, Ques-
tion 6 asked residents to rate their level of satisfaction with each of the 18 specific service areas
shown in Figure 8. The order in which the service areas were presented was randomized for each
respondent to avoid a systematic position bias, although they have been sorted from high to low
in Figure 8 according to the percentage of respondents who indicated they were satisfied with
the City’s performance in providing the service. For comparison purposes between the services,
only respondents who held an opinion (satisfied or dissatisfied) are included in the figure. Those
who did not have an opinion were removed from this analysis.2
At the top of the list, respondents were most satisfied with the City’s efforts to provide fire pro-
tection, prevention, and emergency medical services (94% very or somewhat satisfied), followed
by maintain public buildings and facilities like City Hall, libraries, and parking garages (91%),
provide parks, sports fields, and recreation facilities (87%), provide paths and trails for walking,
jogging, and running (82%), and provide a variety of recreation programs for all ages (81%). At
the other end of the spectrum, respondents were less satisfied with the City’s efforts to facilitate
the creation of affordable housing (33%), address homelessness (42%), manage traffic conges-
tion (48%), and maintain local streets and roads (54%).
Question 6   For each of the services I read next, I'd like you to tell me how satisfied you are with
the job the city is doing to provide the service. Are you satisfied or dissatisfied with the city's
efforts to: _____, or do you not have an opinion?
FIGURE 8  SATISFACTION WITH CITY SERVICES
2. The percentage who held an opinion for each service is shown to the right of the service label in brackets.
45.3
39.1
39.3
30.2
34.0
29.2
22.0
20.6
21.2
22.7
22.9
16.6
20.4
21.7
14.0
10.3
10.2
9.1
48.6
52.2
47.6
51.5
46.7
48.1
53.3
54.7
54.0
51.6
46.6
49.5
45.3
40.1
40.1
37.5
31.6
23.8
32.2
32.3
28.1
19.9
39.0
24.0
18.8
19.8
16.7
14.2
15.1
13.4
9.4
6.8
4.3
16.5
19.0
20.8
23.7
26.7
4.2
5.0
4
2
2
8.3
6.7
9.7
10.2
25.8
19.3
8.5
8.1
5.0
15.4
14.2
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Provide fire protection, prevention and emergency medical services [85%] 
Maintain public buildings and facilities like City Hall, libraries, parking garages [91%] 
Provide parks, sports fields and recreation facilities [96%] 
Provide paths and trails for walking, jogging, and running [95%] 
Provide a variety of recreation programs for all ages [80%] 
Provide police and crime prevention services [88%] 
Maintain storm drains, sewers and creeks [88%] 
Prepare the city for emergencies and natural disasters [68%] 
Protect the environment [80%] 
Provide special events like community festivals and holiday celebrations [84%] 
Provide bicycle lanes and paths [89%] 
Promote economic development to attract new businesses, good-paying jobs [72%] 
Enforce codes to address issues like abandoned vehicles, non-permitted construction
[75%] 
Cleaning up litter, trash that people dump along streets, sidewalks, in public areas [97%] 
Maintain local streets and roads [96%] 
Manage traffic congestion [93%] 
Address homelessness [78%] 
Facilitate the creation of affordable housing [80%] 
% Respondents Who Provided Opinion
Very satisfied
Somewhat satisfied
Somewhat dissatisfied
Very dissatisfied
329 of 509

--- page 330 ---
City Services
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 18
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Table 8 displays the percentage of respondents who were satisfied with each service by study
year, and the difference between 2020 and 2022. When compared with the 2020 survey, satis-
faction with the City’s efforts to manage traffic congestion increasing significantly (+18%), while
satisfaction with the City’s efforts to provide a variety of recreation programs for all ages (-4%),
police and crime prevention services (-5%), special events like community festivals and holiday
celebrations (-8%), and address homelessness (-9%) decreased significantly.
TABLE 8  SATISFACTION WITH CITY SERVICES BY STUDY YEAR
† Statistically significant change (p < 0.05) between the 2020 and 2022 studies.
DIFFERENTIATORS OF OPINION   For the interested reader, Table 9 on the next page
shows how the level of satisfaction with each specific service tested in Question 6 varied accord-
ing to residents’ overall performance ratings for the City (see Overall Satisfaction on page 15).
The table divides residents who were satisfied with the City’s overall performance into one
group and those dissatisfied into a second group. Also displayed is the difference between the
two groups in terms of the percentage who indicated they were satisfied with the City’s efforts to
provide each service tested in Question 6 (far right column). For convenience, the services are
sorted by that difference, with the greatest differentiators of opinion near the top of the table.
When compared to their counterparts, those who were satisfied with the City’s overall perfor-
mance in providing city services were also more likely to express satisfaction with the City’s
efforts to provide each of the services tested in Question 6. That said, the greatest specific dif-
ferentiators of opinion between satisfied and dissatisfied residents were found with respect to
the City’s efforts to maintain local streets and roads, promote economic development to attract
new businesses and good-paying jobs to the community, maintain storm drains, sewers and
creeks, provide police and crime prevention services, and enforce code violations to address
issues like abandoned vehicles, non-permitted construction, and yards not being properly main-
tained.
At the other end of the spectrum, there was much less difference between the two resident
groups regarding their satisfaction with the City’s efforts to provide fire protection, prevention,
and emergency medical services, and provide paths and trails for walking, jogging, and running.
2022
2020
Manage traffic congestion
47.9
30.3
+17.6†
Enforce codes to address issues like abandoned vehicles, non-permitted construction
65.8
62.0
+3.7
Prepare the city for emergencies and natural disasters
75.3
73.8
+1.4
Promote economic development to attract new businesses, good-paying jobs to community
66.1
65.5
+0.6
Maintain storm drains, sewers and creeks
75.3
75.1
+0.2
Maintain public buildings and facilities like City Hall, libraries, parking garages
91.3
91.5
-0.1
Maintain local streets and roads
54.0
54.3
-0.3
Provide parks, sports fields and recreation facilities
86.9
88.6
-1.7
Provide fire protection, prevention and emergency medical services
93.9
95.9
-1.9
Provide a variety of recreation programs for all ages
80.7
84.6
-3.9†
Provide police and crime prevention services
77.3
82.7
-5.3†
Provide special events like community festivals and holiday celebrations
74.2
82.5
-8.3†
Address homelessness
41.8
51.0
-9.1†
Protect the environment
75.2
N/A
N/A
Provide paths and trails for walking, jogging, and running
81.6
N/A
N/A
Provide bicycle lanes and paths
69.5
N/A
N/A
Cleaning up litter, trash that people dump along streets, sidewalks, in public areas
61.8
N/A
N/A
Facilitate the creation of affordable housing
32.9
N/A
N/A
Study Year
Change in
Satisfaction
2020 to 2022
330 of 509

--- page 331 ---
City Services
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 19
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 9  SATISFACTION WITH CITY SERVICES BY OVERALL SATISFACTION WITH CITY
Very or somewhat 
satisfied
Very or somewhat 
dissatisfied
Maintain local streets and roads
61.0
20.7
40.3
Promote economic development to attract new businesses, good-paying jobs
74.7
35.3
39.4
Maintain storm drains, sewers and creeks
81.9
47.9
34.0
Provide police and crime prevention services
83.8
50.6
33.1
Enforce codes to address issues like abandoned vehicles, non-permitted construction
71.9
39.3
32.6
Cleaning up litter, trash that people dump along streets, sidewalks, in public areas
67.9
36.3
31.7
Manage traffic congestion
53.9
22.5
31.4
Provide a variety of recreation programs for all ages
87.3
56.1
31.2
Provide special events like community festivals and holiday celebrations
81.9
50.8
31.0
Protect the environment
81.3
50.5
30.8
Prepare the city for emergencies and natural disasters
81.8
51.0
30.8
Address homelessness
47.8
20.7
27.1
Maintain public buildings, facilities like City Hall, libraries, parking garages
95.0
71.6
23.4
Provide parks, sports fields and recreation facilities
90.1
71.5
18.6
Provide bicycle lanes and paths
74.3
56.3
18.0
Facilitate the creation of affordable housing
37.0
21.0
16.0
Provide paths and trails for walking, jogging, and running
84.8
69.6
15.1
Provide fire protection, prevention and emergency medical services
96.7
82.2
14.5
City's Overall Performance (Q5)
Difference Between 
Groups For Each 
Service
% Respondents Satisfied With Each 
Service
331 of 509

--- page 332 ---
housing & Land Use
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 20
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
H O U S I N G  &  L A N D  U S E
The General Plan will help shape the nature of San Mateo’s future development and redevelop-
ment—including the size, type, character, and location of new housing projects—as well as the
pace at which these changes occur. To help inform the City’s General Plan update, the survey
included a series of questions related to housing and density, as well as the factors that resi-
dents feel the City should prioritize when planning new housing.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING   The first question in this series simply asked respondents to
indicate whether there is currently too much, about the right amount, or too little affordable
housing in the City of San Mateo for middle-income and low-income families, respectively. Resi-
dents expressed similar opinions for both types of affordable housing, with approximately two-
thirds of residents indicating that there is currently too little housing that is affordable for mid-
dle-income (67%) and low-income families (64%). Approximately three-in-ten residents felt the
amount of affordable housing was about right or were unsure (middle income: 29%, low income:
28%), while just 5% felt there was too much housing that is affordable for middle-income families
and 8% shared the same sentiment for housing that is affordable for low-income families.
Question 7   As I read the following housing types, please tell me whether you feel there is cur-
rently too much, about the right amount, or too little of this type of housing in the City of San
Mateo.
FIGURE 9  AMOUNT OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN SAN MATEO BY STUDY YEAR
† Statistically significant change (p < 0.05) between the 2020 and 2022 studies.
Tables 10-12 on the next page display the percentage of residents who felt there is currently too
little of each affordable housing type in the City by key demographic traits. When compared to
their respective counterparts, younger residents (under 35), renters, and those who had lived in
the City between 10 and 14 years were the most likely to perceive there is not enough affordable
housing for low-income families in San Mateo, while those who completed the survey in Spanish,
renters, those between 35 and 44 years of age, and those who had lived in the City between 10
24.3
28.0
24.8
68.5
7.9
4.0
4.5
6.6
28.7†
71.7
64.1†
66.8†
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
2022
2020
2022
2020
Housing affordable for middle-income
families
Housing affordable for low-income
families
% Respondents
Too little
About right
Too much
332 of 509

--- page 333 ---
housing & Land Use
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 21
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
and 14 years were the most likely to indicate there is not enough affordable housing for middle-
income families.
TABLE 10  AMOUNT OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN SAN MATEO BY YEARS IN SAN MATEO, ADULT OVER 65 IN HSLD & 
SURVEY LANGUAGE (SHOWING % TOO LITTLE)
TABLE 11  AMOUNT OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN SAN MATEO BY AGE (SHOWING % TOO LITTLE)
TABLE 12  AMOUNT OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN SAN MATEO BY GENDER, CHILD IN HSLD & HOME OWNERSHIP STATUS 
(SHOWING % TOO LITTLE)
FACTORS TO PRIORITIZE WHEN PLANNING HOUSING   California State law requires
that all cities plan for additional housing. With a general shortage of housing in California, the
state is requiring that the City of San Mateo plan for thousands of new housing units. After pro-
viding this background information, Question 8 presented respondents with each of the factors
shown in Figure 10 on the next page and asked them how important they feel the item should be
as the City plans for future housing over the next 20 years. To ensure that respondents priori-
tized among the items, they were instructed to keep in mind that not all of the items can be
extremely important.
Although all of the factors tested in Question 8 were viewed as important by at least two-thirds
of respondents, factors that relate to environmental sustainability tended to rise to the top of the
list when it comes to planning future housing. Overall, ensuring adequate water supplies (98% at
least somewhat important) was viewed as the most important factor, followed by preserving
open space and creating new park lands (97%), minimizing vehicle trips and traffic congestion
(95%), creating pedestrian-friendly areas that encourage people to walk rather than drive (94%),
and minimizing pollution and greenhouse gas emissions (93%).
When compared to the other items tested, respondents indicated that keeping building heights
low (68%) and minimizing the number of new units added to single-family neighborhoods (68%)
were the least important when planning for future housing in the City.
Less than 5
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or longer
Yes
No
English
Spanish
Housing affordable for middle-income 
families
68.3
65.1
72.9
64.7
63.5
68.7
65.8
75.8
Housing affordable for low-income 
families
67.3
61.5
72.0
60.7
62.1
65.1
63.5
64.8
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Adult Over 65
in Hsld (QD5)
Survey Language
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Housing affordable for middle-income 
families
60.6
71.5
75.3
63.9
63.5
62.4
Housing affordable for low-income 
families
87.5
72.8
58.3
58.9
53.4
60.3
Age (QD1)
Male
Female
Yes,
under 18
Yes,
under 6
None
Own
Rent
Housing affordable for middle-income 
families
66.6
67.7
67.7
65.5
66.3
59.3
75.1
Housing affordable for low-income 
families
63.0
65.9
57.6
50.3
67.2
51.0
78.1
Gender (QD2)
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Home Ownership Status 
(QD6)
333 of 509

--- page 334 ---
housing & Land Use
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 22
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Question 8   California State law requires that all cities plan for additional housing. With a gen-
eral shortage of housing in California, the state is requiring that the City of San Mateo plan for
thousands of new housing units. There are a variety of factors the City can consider when decid-
ing where new housing may be located and the types of housing that may be built. As I read the
following list of items, I'd like to know how important you feel the item should be as the City
plans for future housing over the next 20 years. Please keep in mind that not all of the items can
be extremely important.
FIGURE 10  IMPORTANCE OF ISSUES OF CITY DEVELOPMENT
Tables 13-16 show the percentage of respondents in each respondent subgroup that identified a
factor as extremely important when the City plans for future housing. For the reader’s conve-
nience, the top five factors in each subgroup are highlighted in green. When considering just
those who indicated a factor was extremely important, three factors were consistently among the
top five across subgroups: ensuring adequate water supplies, creating homes that are affordable
for low- and middle-income residents, and minimizing pollution and greenhouse gas emissions.
62.0
42.9
33.9
40.1
44.0
29.2
28.1
30.8
39.2
45.0
26.2
25.1
22.2
17.3
27.8
12.7
24.2
20.7
30.8
35.3
41.3
35.4
34.5
43.3
37.0
38.5
35.2
28.6
31.9
39.6
30.8
31.2
30.8
33.3
21.4
22.3
4.7
18.5
19.4
18.0
14.3
20.4
26.5
22.1
16.7
17.0
27.5
20.6
32.1
36.5
24.3
35.3
22.8
25.1
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Ensuring adequate water supplies
Preserving open space and creating new park lands
Minimizing vehicle trips and traffic congestion
Creating pedestrian-friendly areas that encourage people to walk rather than drive
Minimizing pollution and greenhouse gas emissions
Producing revenue to pay for police, fire, city services to new housing units
Ensuring sufficient parking spaces
Improving access to transit and increasing transit ridership
Avoiding new development in areas that are at higher risk of natural hazards,
climate change, or sea level rise
Creating homes that are affordable for low- and middle-income residents
Preserving the City’s historic buildings and resources
Having a plan that will meet the State’s requirements for at least the next 20 years
Creating bike lanes and paths
Locating additional shops and restaurants near new housing units
Ensuring that the impacts of growth are not concentrated in disadvantaged areas
Creating commercial zones that will attract high-paying jobs
Minimizing the number of new units added to single-family neighborhoods
Keeping building heights low
% Respondents
Extremely important
Very important
Somewhat important
334 of 509

--- page 335 ---
housing & Land Use
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 23
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 13  IMPORTANCE OF ISSUES OF CITY DEVELOPMENT BY YEARS IN SAN MATEO & OVERALL SATISFACTION 
(SHOWING % EXTREMELY IMPORTANT)
Less than 5
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or longer
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
Ensuring adequate water supplies
55.1
62.0
69.2
63.6
62.8
64.1
Creating homes that are affordable for
low- and middle-income residents
54.5
46.7
44.8
40.4
45.0
42.1
Minimizing pollution and greenhouse gas emissions
49.9
47.5
43.5
40.6
43.6
40.9
Preserving open space and creating new park lands
41.4
42.9
47.7
42.6
42.0
40.6
Creating pedestrian-friendly areas that encourage people 
to walk rather than drive
46.1
43.1
39.9
36.7
42.3
28.5
Avoiding new development in areas that are at higher risk 
of natural hazards, climate change, or sea level rise
42.8
33.7
32.3
40.6
39.0
39.0
Minimizing vehicle trips and traffic congestion
31.0
28.4
26.3
38.3
34.3
35.5
Improving access to transit and increasing transit ridership
37.6
26.8
29.6
29.2
32.4
25.7
Producing revenue necessary to pay for cost of providing 
police, fire, other city services to new housing units
20.6
28.7
35.7
31.7
29.2
33.4
Ensuring sufficient parking spaces
17.8
25.9
30.4
32.7
26.4
39.5
Ensuring that the impacts of growth are not concentrated 
in disadvantaged areas
30.4
25.7
23.6
28.1
27.0
31.6
Preserving the City’s historic buildings and resources
17.4
18.3
21.8
33.3
27.0
26.5
Having a plan that will meet the State’s requirements for 
at least the next 20 years
26.4
27.0
25.0
24.1
25.6
20.7
Minimizing the number of new units added to single-family 
neighborhoods
10.8
16.9
19.2
33.2
23.0
37.5
Creating bike lanes and paths
28.5
23.3
15.8
20.5
22.3
18.1
Keeping building heights low
14.6
12.9
19.6
25.9
18.3
35.3
Locating additional shops and restaurants near new 
housing units
13.9
20.0
17.0
18.0
17.1
16.3
Creating commercial zones that will attract high-paying 
jobs
11.5
12.3
15.6
12.8
13.3
13.7
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Overall Satisfaction (Q5)
335 of 509

--- page 336 ---
housing & Land Use
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 24
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 14  IMPORTANCE OF ISSUES OF CITY DEVELOPMENT BY AGE (SHOWING % EXTREMELY IMPORTANT)
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Ensuring adequate water supplies
46.0
58.1
63.3
67.2
64.5
68.6
Creating homes that are affordable for
low- and middle-income residents
50.2
58.3
42.8
40.4
36.9
42.4
Minimizing pollution and greenhouse gas emissions
49.0
46.3
40.3
42.8
39.8
50.9
Preserving open space and creating new park lands
27.8
39.4
47.8
48.1
48.2
40.0
Creating pedestrian-friendly areas that encourage people 
to walk rather than drive
36.1
49.3
34.9
44.1
42.5
30.7
Avoiding new development in areas that are at higher risk 
of natural hazards, climate change, or sea level rise
41.5
40.9
31.6
35.7
35.5
46.1
Minimizing vehicle trips and traffic congestion
26.9
28.0
36.1
35.7
40.9
35.1
Improving access to transit and increasing transit ridership
26.4
37.5
30.8
30.5
29.6
23.6
Producing revenue necessary to pay for cost of providing 
police, fire, other city services to new housing units
21.0
19.9
30.2
35.2
33.0
36.8
Ensuring sufficient parking spaces
13.9
17.3
27.8
29.2
34.4
40.6
Ensuring that the impacts of growth are not concentrated 
in disadvantaged areas
41.7
32.3
28.4
25.7
20.9
22.6
Preserving the City’s historic buildings and resources
21.7
19.6
19.1
27.5
37.9
32.8
Having a plan that will meet the State’s requirements for 
at least the next 20 years
27.1
22.4
22.7
30.7
20.7
30.3
Minimizing the number of new units added to single-family 
neighborhoods
16.0
12.3
22.7
28.2
34.0
31.5
Creating bike lanes and paths
13.9
21.8
21.4
32.0
24.2
17.2
Keeping building heights low
7.1
11.3
17.5
24.1
28.3
28.9
Locating additional shops and restaurants near new 
housing units
7.8
16.0
18.1
20.8
15.2
22.2
Creating commercial zones that will attract high-paying 
jobs
4.7
11.8
17.0
16.1
8.3
15.1
Age (QD1)
336 of 509

--- page 337 ---
housing & Land Use
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 25
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 15  IMPORTANCE OF ISSUES OF CITY DEVELOPMENT BY CHILD IN HSLD, ADULT OVER 65 IN HSLD & SURVEY 
LANGUAGE (SHOWING % EXTREMELY IMPORTANT)
Yes,
under 18
Yes,
under 6
None
Yes
No
English
Spanish
Ensuring adequate water supplies
69.4
67.5
58.8
64.9
60.8
61.5
69.1
Creating homes that are affordable for
low- and middle-income residents
43.2
39.6
46.9
39.6
48.8
42.9
74.8
Minimizing pollution and greenhouse gas emissions
44.4
39.1
44.6
43.8
45.0
43.0
57.2
Preserving open space and creating new park lands
46.9
44.4
41.5
39.4
43.9
42.9
42.5
Creating pedestrian-friendly areas that encourage people 
to walk rather than drive
39.1
39.0
40.6
31.9
43.4
39.4
49.6
Avoiding new development in areas that are at higher risk 
of natural hazards, climate change, or sea level rise
38.2
34.8
40.3
46.1
37.1
38.5
48.7
Minimizing vehicle trips and traffic congestion
32.2
27.1
33.5
35.5
32.4
33.2
43.6
Improving access to transit and increasing transit ridership
26.5
26.0
32.5
26.4
33.1
29.6
46.8
Producing revenue necessary to pay for cost of providing 
police, fire, other city services to new housing units
34.2
33.1
26.3
34.1
26.3
29.2
28.4
Ensuring sufficient parking spaces
29.4
25.1
27.0
39.2
22.8
28.2
27.0
Ensuring that the impacts of growth are not concentrated 
in disadvantaged areas
28.8
28.7
27.6
25.9
28.5
27.5
31.2
Preserving the City’s historic buildings and resources
25.3
21.0
26.4
30.8
23.5
25.9
31.2
Having a plan that will meet the State’s requirements for 
at least the next 20 years
23.4
19.6
26.1
25.4
25.1
24.3
36.4
Minimizing the number of new units added to single-family 
neighborhoods
28.9
25.7
21.0
29.6
21.0
24.4
21.1
Creating bike lanes and paths
24.1
19.6
21.2
18.4
23.7
22.0
25.3
Keeping building heights low
24.2
22.3
18.4
27.8
16.2
20.4
24.6
Locating additional shops and restaurants near new 
housing units
20.9
18.9
16.4
17.0
18.2
16.4
29.8
Creating commercial zones that will attract high-paying 
jobs
15.2
13.5
11.5
14.3
12.1
11.9
24.8
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Adult Over 65
in Hsld (QD5)
Survey Language
337 of 509

--- page 338 ---
housing & Land Use
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 26
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 16  IMPORTANCE OF ISSUES OF CITY DEVELOPMENT BY ETHNICITY & HOME OWNERSHIP STATUS (SHOWING % 
EXTREMELY IMPORTANT)
BUILDING HEIGHT & DENSITY TRADE-OFFS   Concentrating new housing in taller,
higher-density buildings downtown and near transit would allow more land in the City to be
reserved for parks, recreation areas, and community amenities, and will minimize change to
existing residential neighborhoods. Once apprised of this trade-off, respondents were simply
asked whether they would support or oppose concentrating future housing in higher-density
buildings up to 12 stories. Those who did not support buildings up to 12 stories were subse-
quently asked if they would support buildings up to eight stories. The answers to both questions
are combined in Figure 11 on the next page.
When presented with the opportunity to reserve more land for parks, recreation areas, and com-
munity amenities and minimize change to existing neighborhoods, 63% of San Mateo residents
indicated they would support concentrating new housing in higher-density buildings downtown
and near transit up to 12 stories. A higher percentage (68%) indicated they would support build-
ings up to eight stories. In general, newer residents (less than 10 years), younger residents
(under 35), those who anticipated living in the City 5 to 10 more years, those without a senior in
the home, Caucasians, Asians, and those who completed the survey in English were the most
Caucasian
/ White
Asian 
American
Latino / 
Hispanic
Mixed or 
other
Own
Rent
Ensuring adequate water supplies
61.2
63.1
58.3
69.6
65.3
59.0
Creating homes that are affordable for
low- and middle-income residents
45.3
35.4
53.7
46.8
27.7
64.4
Minimizing pollution and greenhouse gas emissions
44.6
40.0
44.9
49.3
43.6
44.9
Preserving open space and creating new park lands
43.2
44.2
40.2
37.5
49.9
36.4
Creating pedestrian-friendly areas that encourage people 
to walk rather than drive
41.1
40.5
38.3
41.0
40.1
41.0
Avoiding new development in areas that are at higher risk 
of natural hazards, climate change, or sea level rise
38.7
38.5
40.7
42.2
38.8
40.6
Minimizing vehicle trips and traffic congestion
37.9
29.1
28.4
47.8
35.7
31.7
Improving access to transit and increasing transit ridership
33.5
25.2
28.3
42.1
29.9
32.3
Producing revenue necessary to pay for cost of providing 
police, fire, other city services to new housing units
27.8
30.4
26.7
30.4
33.4
25.1
Ensuring sufficient parking spaces
28.3
29.9
23.2
34.8
32.8
23.4
Ensuring that the impacts of growth are not concentrated 
in disadvantaged areas
29.8
18.9
28.8
45.2
22.3
33.1
Preserving the City’s historic buildings and resources
25.9
24.5
28.2
27.1
26.6
25.7
Having a plan that will meet the State’s requirements for 
at least the next 20 years
24.6
26.7
24.7
22.6
24.2
25.2
Minimizing the number of new units added to single-family 
neighborhoods
26.2
22.8
19.0
26.7
32.9
14.8
Creating bike lanes and paths
21.5
18.4
22.1
33.6
21.1
24.1
Keeping building heights low
20.5
20.7
19.0
18.9
28.0
12.8
Locating additional shops and restaurants near new 
housing units
18.9
16.3
17.5
13.3
18.5
16.8
Creating commercial zones that will attract high-paying 
jobs
8.4
14.1
13.5
27.6
15.4
10.5
Ethnicity (QD12)
Home Ownership Status 
(QD6)
338 of 509

--- page 339 ---
housing & Land Use
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 27
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
supportive of concentrating new housing in higher-density buildings up to eight stories down-
town and near transit (see figures 12-14).
Question 9   Concentrating new housing in taller, higher-density buildings downtown and near
transit would allow more land to be reserved for parks, recreation areas, and community ameni-
ties, and will minimize change to existing residential neighborhoods. Knowing this, would you
support or oppose concentrating future housing in higher-density buildings up to 12 stories.
Question 10   Would you support or oppose concentrating future housing in higher-density
buildings up to 8 stories.
FIGURE 11  SUPPORT CONCENTRATING FUTURE HOUSING IN HIGHER DENSITY BUILDINGS
FIGURE 12  SUPPORT CONCENTRATING FUTURE HOUSING IN HIGHER DENSITY BUILDINGS UP TO 8 STORIES BY YEARS IN 
SAN MATEO & AGE
10.8
23.9
17.7
33.3
33.3
30.0
14.0
13.3
21.0
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Up to 12 stories
Up to 8 stories
% Respondents
Prefer not to
answer
Strongly
oppose
Somewhat
oppose
Somewhat
support
Strongly
support
Strongly
support at 12
stories
33.3
34.0
33.6
23.1
27.6
10.6
7.5
9.7
7.4
8.9
27.3
24.6
17.9
29.4
22.2
23.0
32.2
7.7
6.6
19.8
16.4
19.6
9.8
11.2
14.9
11.8
15.3
12.3
8.7
13.3
23.5
6.1
14.9
17.1
16.7
22.2
19.7
24.5
52.1
46.2
31.4
22.0
46.9
7.1
13.3
6.2
10.9
25.2
22.2
19.4
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Less than 5
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or longer
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Age (QD1)
% Respondents 
Prefer not to
answer
Strongly oppose
Somewhat oppose
Somewhat support
Strongly support
Strongly support at
12 stories
339 of 509

--- page 340 ---
housing & Land Use
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 28
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FIGURE 13  SUPPORT CONCENTRATING FUTURE HOUSING IN HIGHER DENSITY BUILDINGS UP TO 8 STORIES BY CHILD IN 
HSLD, ANTICIPATED YEARS IN SAN MATEO & ADULT OVER 65 IN HSLD
FIGURE 14  SUPPORT CONCENTRATING FUTURE HOUSING IN HIGHER DENSITY BUILDINGS UP TO 8 STORIES BY 
ETHNICITY, HOME OWNERSHIP STATUS & SURVEY LANGUAGE
23.4
22.3
39.2
9.1
7.5
12.0
12.0
10.6
25.4
19.7
26.5
25.9
27.6
23.1
14.0
9.6
12.5
16.9
9.3
12.5
15.4
16.1
11.6
20.3
19.7
14.5
16.9
10.5
20.4
22.9
21.0
14.3
31.2
32.1
35.7
33.5
30.3
48.7
11.7
10.6
13.7
11.5
23.0
21.1
24.8
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Yes, under 18
Yes, under 6
None
Less than 5
5 to 10
11 to 15
16 or more
Yes
No
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Anticipated Years in San Mateo (QD8)
Adult Over 65 in Hsld (QD5)
% Respondents 
Prefer not to
answer
Strongly oppose
Somewhat oppose
Somewhat support
Strongly support
Strongly support at
12 stories
33.4
32.1
9.7
11.4
10.6
13.2
18.0
15.0
21.3
24.8
10.2
10.8
14.7
17.2
10.2
13.2
12.3
12.8
20.8
13.9
13.3
19.5
26.8
19.9
14.9
17.6
19.2
30.2
38.1
32.7
28.9
35.7
38.8
8.5
12.4
15.3
7.8
30.4
26.2
27.4
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Caucasian /
White
Asian American
Latino /
Hispanic
Mixed or other
Own
Rent
English
Spanish
Ethnicity (QD12)
Home Ownership Status (QD6)
Survey Language
% Respondents 
Prefer not to
answer
Strongly oppose
Somewhat oppose
Somewhat support
Strongly support
Strongly support at
12 stories
340 of 509

--- page 341 ---
Mobility
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 29
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
M O B I L I T Y
One of the key challenges when planning for population growth and future housing is the issue
of mobility. Put simply, adding housing and people to a community will naturally lead to more
congestion and decreased mobility unless improvements are made to the transportation system
to accommodate the additional demand and/or vehicle demand is mitigated through use of
alternative modes. Accordingly, the survey explored how residents tend to travel within San
Mateo, as well as the types of actions and strategies they would prioritize for minimizing growth-
induced congestion in the future.
FREQUENCY OF MODE USE   The first question in this series asked respondents how
often they use each of the modes listed in Figure 15 when traveling within the City of San Mateo.
As expected, the vast majority of residents (87%) indicated they use a personal vehicle on a
weekly basis when traveling within the City of San Mateo, while 45% reported that they walk from
their home to a local store or restaurant at least once per week. Less than one-in-five respon-
dents indicated that they ride a bicycle or scooter (19%), use public transit such as a bus or train
(8%), or use Uber, Lyft, or a taxi (4%) at least once per week when traveling within the City of San
Mateo. For the interested reader, figures 16 and 17 show how reported frequency of mode use
within the City of San Mateo varied by age, overall satisfaction with the City’s efforts to provide
municipal services, employment status, and ethnicity.
Question 11   When traveling within the City of San Mateo, how often do you: _____?
FIGURE 15  FREQUENCY OF MODE USE WITHIN CITY
29.3
12.3
4.5
3.1
18.6
8.9
12.1
10.8
15.4
15.9
52.2
6.3
3
35.0
7.6
4.8
6.7
8.1
1
9.0
6.1
32.8
15.2
22.1
1 3
49.4
58.2
42
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Use personal vehicle
Walk from home to store,
restaurant
Ride a bicycle, scooter
Use public transit such as bus,
train
Use Uber, Lyft, taxi
% Respondents 
5+ days per wk
1-4 days per wk
2-3 days per mo
1 day per mo
< 1 day per mo
Never
Prefer not to answer
341 of 509

--- page 342 ---
Mobility
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 30
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FIGURE 16  FREQUENCY OF MODE USE WITHIN CITY BY OVERALL, AGE & OVERALL SATISFACTION 
FIGURE 17  FREQUENCY OF MODE USE WITHIN CITY BY EMPLOYMENT STATUS & ETHNICITY
STRATEGIES TO REDUCE FUTURE CONGESTION   The survey next transitioned to
exploring residents’ opinions about different actions the City could take in the future to reduce
the number of vehicle trips people make by driving in a typical day. For each of the actions
shown on the left of Figure 18, respondents were asked if the City should make the action a high
priority, medium priority, or low priority for the City’s future. Respondents were also allowed to
indicate that the City should not take the action. Although presented in a random order for each
respondent, the actions are sorted from high to low in the figure based on the percentage of
respondents that indicated an action is a high or medium priority.
Improving safe routes to school to encourage more kids to walk and bike to school (84% high or
medium priority) and improving sidewalks, crosswalks, pedestrian safety, signs and infrastruc-
ture to encourage more walking (84%) were widely viewed as the top priorities among the actions
tested, followed by improving bus and shuttle services with more routes and more frequent ser-
vice within San Mateo and to neighboring areas (71%), providing financial incentives to encour-
age greater use of transit use (64%), and expanding the network of dedicated bike lanes and
shared lanes to encourage more bicycling (63%).
91
92
88
94
91
92
90
92
90
47
56
44
19
14
29
17
24
17
11
19
24
7
8
14
5
6
4
3
7
9
4
6
7
2
3
1
3
4
4
49
42
48
41
38
57
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Satisfied
Dis-satisfied
Overall
Age (QD1)
Overall Satisfaction (Q5)
% Respondents
Personal vehicle
Walk
Bike, scooter
Public transit
Uber, Lyft, taxi
90
96
90
90
91
89
95
89
97
48
41
44
22
12
11
32
19
16
15
24
29
7
1
4
16
19
5
5
13
7
4
1
3
0
9
3
4
5
8
41
54
43
53
58
66
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Full-time
Part-time
Retired
Between jobs
Other
Caucasian /
White
Asian American
Latino /
Hispanic
Mixed or other
Employment Status (QD9)
Ethnicity (QD12)
% Respondents
Personal vehicle
Walk
Bike, scooter
Public transit
Uber, Lyft, taxi
342 of 509

--- page 343 ---
Mobility
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 31
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Question 12   A growing population will naturally lead to greater traffic congestion in the future
unless improvements are made to the City's transportation system and we find ways to reduce
the number of trips people make by driving in a typical day. As I read the following list of actions
that could be used to help reduce traffic congestion, please indicate whether you think the City
should make it a high priority, a medium priority, or a low priority for the City's future. If you
don't think the City should take the action, just say so. Please keep in mind that not all actions
can be a high priority.
FIGURE 18  STRATEGIES TO REDUCE TRAFFIC
Tables 17-20 show the percentage of respondents within each subgroup that identified an action
as a high priority for the City’s future. To ease comparisons, the three top-rated actions within
each subgroup are highlighted in green. Most respondent subgroups rated the same three
actions as the highest priorities—improving sidewalks, crosswalks, pedestrian safety, signs, and
infrastructure to encourage more walking, improving safe routes to school to encourage more
kids to walk and bike to school, and improving bus and shuttle services with more routes and
more frequent service within San Mateo and to neighboring areas.
52.4
55.7
33.4
27.0
28.0
16.0
14.9
18.6
12.8
31.8
27.9
37.9
36.7
34.7
41.3
34.5
26.0
26.7
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Improve safe routes to school to encourage more kids to walk and bike
to school
Improve sidewalks, crosswalks, pedestrian safety, signs, infrastructure to
encourage more walking
Improve bus, shuttle services with more routes, more frequent service
within San Mateo, to neighboring areas
Provide financial incentives to encourage greater use of transit
Expand the network of dedicated bike lanes and shared lanes to
encourage more bicycling
Increase programs that encourage carpooling, vanpooling, and
ridesharing
Add Bikeshare services with bikes available at kiosks for public use
Make infrastructure improvements needed to support
autonomous/driverless shuttles, vehicles
Create bus-only lanes to improve travel times when using transit
% Respondents
High priority
Medium priority
343 of 509

--- page 344 ---
Mobility
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 32
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 17  STRATEGIES TO REDUCE TRAFFIC BY YEARS IN SAN MATEO & GENDER (SHOWING % HIGH PRIORITY)
TABLE 18  STRATEGIES TO REDUCE TRAFFIC BY AGE (SHOWING % HIGH PRIORITY)
Less than 5
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or longer
Male
Female
Improve sidewalks, crosswalks, pedestrian safety, signs, 
infrastructure to encourage more walking
58.9
55.9
55.2
54.5
52.5
60.7
Improve safe routes to school to encourage more kids to walk 
and bike to school
53.1
51.4
48.2
53.4
49.3
55.9
Improve bus, shuttle services with more routes, more frequent 
service within San Mateo, to neighboring areas
36.2
30.4
29.4
34.0
29.8
39.2
Expand the network of dedicated bike lanes and shared lanes to 
encourage more bicycling
38.7
24.5
26.6
24.7
31.6
25.2
Provide financial incentives to encourage greater use of transit
31.5
27.8
20.4
26.3
28.6
25.9
Make infrastructure improvements needed to support 
autonomous/driverless shuttles, vehicles
19.9
18.1
24.5
17.0
21.6
15.6
Increase programs that encourage carpooling,
vanpooling, and ridesharing
16.5
12.7
10.6
17.9
17.0
16.2
Add Bikeshare services with bikes available at kiosks for public 
use
15.4
11.0
17.3
15.3
15.5
15.1
Create bus-only lanes to improve travel times when using transit
17.7
3.4
9.6
14.0
12.7
13.5
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Gender (QD2)
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Improve sidewalks, crosswalks, pedestrian safety, signs, 
infrastructure to encourage more walking
50.7
49.6
60.0
64.7
53.7
56.9
Improve safe routes to school to encourage more kids to walk 
and bike to school
63.9
51.1
51.8
62.2
46.2
46.4
Improve bus, shuttle services with more routes, more frequent 
service within San Mateo, to neighboring areas
55.2
32.1
28.7
29.5
34.5
32.0
Expand the network of dedicated bike lanes and shared lanes to 
encourage more bicycling
33.2
34.7
23.8
34.1
25.9
20.8
Provide financial incentives to encourage greater use of transit
41.7
33.5
24.7
23.6
22.2
19.4
Make infrastructure improvements needed to support 
autonomous/driverless shuttles, vehicles
19.8
19.3
20.4
16.0
20.4
14.7
Increase programs that encourage carpooling,
vanpooling, and ridesharing
24.1
12.4
13.3
14.1
15.7
21.4
Add Bikeshare services with bikes available at kiosks for public 
use
21.9
16.0
16.8
18.0
11.1
9.3
Create bus-only lanes to improve travel times when using transit
35.4
9.8
10.6
7.3
11.0
13.0
Age (QD1)
344 of 509

--- page 345 ---
Mobility
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 33
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 19  STRATEGIES TO REDUCE TRAFFIC BY CHILD IN HSLD, ADULT OVER 65 IN HSLD & SURVEY LANGUAGE 
(SHOWING % HIGH PRIORITY)
TABLE 20  STRATEGIES TO REDUCE TRAFFIC BY ETHNICITY & HOME OWNERSHIP STATUS (SHOWING % HIGH PRIORITY)
ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION TRADE-OFFS   As with most aspects of planning, improve-
ments in one area may require trade-offs in other areas. Adding bike lanes and widening side-
walks will make it easier to travel around the City without using a car and could help reduce
traffic congestion and greenhouse gas emissions. However, adding bike lanes and widening
sidewalks could also require removing a vehicle lane or parking spaces in certain locations.
Yes,
under 18
Yes,
under 6
None
Yes
No
English
Spanish
Improve sidewalks, crosswalks, pedestrian safety, signs, 
infrastructure to encourage more walking
55.6
55.4
56.6
53.2
57.8
54.7
70.5
Improve safe routes to school to encourage more kids to walk 
and bike to school
60.7
57.7
49.5
48.6
54.6
51.4
67.3
Improve bus, shuttle services with more routes, more frequent 
service within San Mateo, to neighboring areas
28.6
21.3
36.0
35.2
33.0
32.8
42.4
Expand the network of dedicated bike lanes and shared lanes to 
encourage more bicycling
24.9
25.5
29.9
21.8
31.4
27.7
32.3
Provide financial incentives to encourage greater use of transit
20.2
17.5
30.1
21.9
29.5
26.9
28.3
Make infrastructure improvements needed to support 
autonomous/driverless shuttles, vehicles
16.5
18.7
19.1
14.0
20.3
18.7
16.9
Increase programs that encourage carpooling,
vanpooling, and ridesharing
12.1
11.6
17.9
20.5
14.5
16.2
14.2
Add Bikeshare services with bikes available at kiosks for public 
use
17.7
22.4
14.0
12.5
16.6
14.3
23.0
Create bus-only lanes to improve travel times when using transit
11.8
7.1
13.3
13.5
12.3
12.8
12.5
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Adult Over 65
in Hsld (QD5)
Survey Language
Caucasian
/ White
Asian 
American
Latino / 
Hispanic
Mixed or 
other
Own
Rent
Improve sidewalks, crosswalks, pedestrian safety, signs, 
infrastructure to encourage more walking
56.2
50.3
55.8
70.3
55.1
58.3
Improve safe routes to school to encourage more kids to walk 
and bike to school
52.0
48.9
55.7
51.3
53.6
52.6
Improve bus, shuttle services with more routes, more frequent 
service within San Mateo, to neighboring areas
31.6
27.8
39.7
40.4
30.1
37.3
Expand the network of dedicated bike lanes and shared lanes to 
encourage more bicycling
28.4
23.9
30.7
32.2
26.0
31.1
Provide financial incentives to encourage greater use of transit
27.4
18.5
29.3
40.2
20.8
33.1
Make infrastructure improvements needed to support 
autonomous/driverless shuttles, vehicles
13.7
20.4
20.6
39.7
18.1
19.2
Increase programs that encourage carpooling,
vanpooling, and ridesharing
14.9
14.1
17.6
26.0
16.3
15.5
Add Bikeshare services with bikes available at kiosks for public 
use
14.7
9.3
16.9
31.4
13.1
16.8
Create bus-only lanes to improve travel times when using transit
11.4
13.0
13.7
21.4
12.3
13.3
Ethnicity (QD12)
Home Ownership Status 
(QD6)
345 of 509

--- page 346 ---
Mobility
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 34
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
When presented with the aforementioned trade-off, 64% of respondents indicated they generally
support adding bike lanes and widening sidewalks in San Mateo, even if it requires removing a
vehicle lane or parking spaces in certain locations. Approximately one-third of respondents
(34%) opposed adding bike lanes or widening sidewalks if it involved this type of trade-off, while
2% were unsure or preferred to not answer the question (Figure 19).
Question 13   Adding bike lanes and widening sidewalks will make it easier to travel around the
City without using a car and could help reduce traffic congestion and greenhouse gas emissions.
However, adding bike lanes and widening sidewalks could also require removing a vehicle lane or
parking spaces in certain locations. Knowing this, do you generally support or oppose adding
bike lanes and widening sidewalks in San Mateo? 
FIGURE 19  SUPPORT ADDING BIKE LANES, WIDENING SIDEWALKS IN SAN MATEO
Figures 20-24 show how support for adding bike
lanes and widening sidewalks even if it involves
removing a vehicle lane or parking spaces in certain
locations varied across subgroups of San Mateo resi-
dents. Newer residents (less than 5 years), younger
residents (under 25), those not living with a child,
those in ‘other’ employment categories (homemaker/
student), and those who use public transit and/or a
bicycle/scooter to travel within the City on a weekly
basis were the most supportive of adding bike lanes
and widening sidewalks. That said, a majority of
respondents in every subgroup expressed support for
adding bike lanes and widening sidewalks, even if it
involved the stated trade-offs.
FIGURE 20  SUPPORT ADDING BIKE LANES, WIDENING SIDEWALKS IN SAN MATEO BY YEARS IN SAN MATEO & AGE
Prefer not to 
answer
2.0
Strongly 
oppose
17.4
Somewhat 
oppose
16.5
Strongly 
support
29.6
Somewhat 
support
34.5
25.6
33.4
25.1
19.6
36.8
34.8
32.1
36.6
28.3
43.4
21.9
17.4
10.1
17.7
15.6
25.2
20.6
6.9
14.4
12.1
23.9
13.2
16.4
21.1
12.8
20.4
14.5
38.5
42.8
34.5
22.2
24.1
38.7
34.4
32.7
43.1
34.2
14.1
11.5
13.2
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Less than 5
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or longer
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Age (QD1)
% Respondents 
Prefer not to
answer
Strongly oppose
Somewhat oppose
Somewhat support
Strongly support
346 of 509

--- page 347 ---
Mobility
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 35
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FIGURE 21  SUPPORT ADDING BIKE LANES, WIDENING SIDEWALKS IN SAN MATEO BY CHILD IN HSLD & ANTICIPATED 
YEARS IN SAN MATEO
FIGURE 22  SUPPORT ADDING BIKE LANES, WIDENING SIDEWALKS IN SAN MATEO BY ETHNICITY, HOME OWNERSHIP 
STATUS & SURVEY LANGUAGE
FIGURE 23  SUPPORT ADDING BIKE LANES, WIDENING SIDEWALKS IN SAN MATEO BY EMPLOYMENT STATUS & WORK 
COMMUTE STATUS
25.1
37.5
35.9
31.2
15.0
14.9
17.5
19.6
21.6
23.0
14.3
16.8
10.9
15.8
21.1
30.7
30.4
31.9
23.1
26.0
34.8
37.9
36.9
37.1
31.4
19.1
15.1
14.5
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Yes, under 18
Yes, under 6
None
Less than 5
5 to 10
11 to 15
16 or more
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Anticipated Years in San Mateo (QD8)
% Respondents 
Prefer not to
answer
Strongly oppose
Somewhat oppose
Somewhat support
Strongly support
29.0
37.9
34.8
34.9
35.5
20.4
17.2
9.6
14.5
15.8
26.2
14.0
17.3
15.5
29.5
18.1
15.6
17.7
13.0
33.8
35.1
31.3
25.9
30.0
26.5
37.2
34.3
25.8
36.6
17.4
18.3
17.2
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Caucasian /
White
Asian American
Latino /
Hispanic
Mixed or other
Own
Rent
English
Spanish
Ethnicity (QD12)
Home Ownership Status (QD6)
Survey Language
% Respondents 
Prefer not to
answer
Strongly oppose
Somewhat oppose
Somewhat support
Strongly support
22.9
33.4
30.5
30.1
38.6
36.6
19.7
17.4
14.7
16.3
15.6
17.5
10.8
15.8
18.4
11.5
14.3
21.4
14.4
44.7
31.7
25.3
20.9
39.8
38.8
34.5
21.7
37.8
43.5
17.2
13.3
15.6
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Full-time
Part-time
Retired
Between jobs
Other
Working from
home
Commuting
outside home
Mixture of both
Employment Status (QD9)
Work Commute Status (QD10)
% Respondents 
Prefer not to
answer
Strongly oppose
Somewhat oppose
Somewhat support
Strongly support
347 of 509

--- page 348 ---
Mobility
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 36
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FIGURE 24  SUPPORT ADDING BIKE LANES, WIDENING SIDEWALKS IN SAN MATEO BY TRAVELING WITHIN CITY AT LEAST 
1X PER WEEK & ADULT OVER 65 IN HSLD
33.7
32.2
36.8
34.9
14.6
13.2
20.8
14.3
19.3
1.8
25.1
14.0
8.8
18.3
15.7
52.9
28.0
49.8
28.0
39.6
21.1
34.3
31.2
27.9
30.2
15.8
5.6
16.6
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Personal vehicle
Public transit
Uber, Lyft, taxi
Walk
Bike, scooter
Yes
No
Travel Within City at Least 1x Per Week (Q11)
Adult Over 65 in Hsld (QD5)
% Respondents 
Prefer not to
answer
Strongly oppose
Somewhat oppose
Somewhat support
Strongly support
348 of 509

--- page 349 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 37
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
C O M M U N I C A T I O N S
The importance of city communication with residents cannot be over-stated. Much of a city’s suc-
cess is shaped by the quality of information that is exchanged in both directions, from the City
to the community and from the community to the City. This study is just one example of San
Mateo’ efforts to enhance the information flow to the City to better understand the community’s
concerns, perceptions, and needs. Some of San Mateo’ many efforts to communicate with its res-
idents include its newsletters, timely press releases, social media, and its website. In this sec-
tion, we present the results of several communication-related questions.
OVERALL SATISFACTION WITH COMMUNICATION   Question 14 asked San Mateo
residents to report their satisfaction with city-resident communication. Overall, 62% of respon-
dents indicated they were satisfied with the City’s efforts to communicate with residents through
newsletters, the Internet, social media, and other means in 2022. The remaining respondents
were either dissatisfied with the City’s efforts in this respect (25%) or unsure of their opinion
(13%). When compared to 2020, there was a statistically significant decline in resident satisfac-
tion with the City’s communication efforts.
Question 14   Overall, are you satisfied or dissatisfied with the City's efforts to communicate
with residents through newsletters, the Internet, social media, and other means?
FIGURE 25  SATISFACTION WITH COMMUNICATION BY STUDY YEAR
† Statistically significant change (p < 0.05) between the 2020 and 2022 studies.
The next three figures display how satisfaction with the City’s efforts to communicate with resi-
dents varied by length of residence, presence and age(s) of children in the home, presence of an
adult 65 years and older in the household, age of the respondent, gender, ethnicity, satisfaction
with the City’s overall performance in providing services, home ownership status, and survey
language. As is often the case, residents dissatisfied with the City’s overall performance were
also the least satisfied with the City’s communication efforts, whereas those generally satisfied
with the City were the among the most satisfied with city-resident communication.
48.7
14.3
10.2
21.3
18.3
44.1†
16.8
7.9†
5.0
12.5
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
2022
2020
Study Year
% Respondents
Prefer not to
answer
Not sure 
Very dissatisfied
Somewhat
dissatisfied
Somewhat
satisfied
Very satisfied
349 of 509

--- page 350 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 38
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FIGURE 26  SATISFACTION WITH COMMUNICATION BY YEARS IN SAN MATEO, CHILD IN HSLD & ADULT OVER 65 IN 
HSLD
FIGURE 27  SATISFACTION WITH COMMUNICATION BY AGE & GENDER
FIGURE 28  SATISFACTION WITH COMMUNICATION BY ETHNICITY, OVERALL SATISFACTION, HOME OWNERSHIP STATUS & 
SURVEY LANGUAGE
15.7
17.8
20.0
17.7
19.0
46.8
35.8
43.5
50.0
42.0
16.2
21.3
23.9
Very
satisfied
18.2
34.2
48.7
46.8
Smwt
satisfied
42.0
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Less than 5
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or longer
Yes, under 18
Yes, under 6
None
Yes
No
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Adult Over 65 in Hsld (QD5)
% Respondents
18.5
18.9
17.3
20.9
35.2
53.2
40.5
48.3
Very
satisfied
25.2
18.4
16.7
17.2
Smwt
satisfied
56.4
50.2
41.8
35.5
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Male
Female
Age (QD1)
Gender (QD2)
% Respondents
22.2
4.0
17.3
20.3
17.7
27.4
48.5
30.9
48.4
40.0
44.5
38.7
Very
satisfied
16.5
14.7
23.5
19.8
Smwt
satisfied
45.3
29.4
42.0
48.6
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Caucasian /
White
Asian
American
Latino /
Hispanic
Mixed or
other
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
Own
Rent
English
Spanish
Ethnicity (QD12)
Overall Satisfaction (Q5)
Home Ownership Status
(QD6)
Survey Language
% Respondents
350 of 509

--- page 351 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 39
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TOPICS OF INTEREST   All respondents were next asked if there was a particular topic or
issue about which they’d like to receive more information from the City (Question 15) and—if
yes—to describe the topic (Question 16). As shown in figures 29-32, 30% of respondents indi-
cated the were interested in receiving more information from the City, with those expressing dis-
satisfaction with the City’s communication efforts and overall performance in providing
municipal services being the most likely to desire more information from the City.
Question 15   Is there a particular topic or issue that you'd like to receive more information
about from the City?
FIGURE 29  INTERESTED IN RECEIVING MORE INFORMATION ABOUT CITY
FIGURE 30  INTERESTED IN RECEIVING MORE INFORMATION ABOUT CITY BY YEARS IN SAN MATEO, CHILD IN HSLD & 
ADULT OVER 65 IN HSLD
Do not desire 
additional info
62.3
Yes, desire 
additional info
30.2
Prefer not to 
answer
7.6
29.3
31.8
29.9
29.7
29.6
30.6
19.3
35.1
31.3
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Less than 5
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or longer
Yes, under 18
Yes, under 6
None
Yes
No
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Adult Over 65 in Hsld (QD5)
% Respondents Who Interested in 
Receiving More Info About City
351 of 509

--- page 352 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 40
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FIGURE 31  INTERESTED IN RECEIVING MORE INFORMATION ABOUT CITY BY AGE & GENDER
FIGURE 32  INTERESTED IN RECEIVING MORE INFORMATION ABOUT CITY BY ETHNICITY, OVERALL SATISFACTION, HOME 
OWNERSHIP STATUS & SURVEY LANGUAGE
As for the specific topics of interest to those seeking more information from the City (see Figure
33), the most commonly mentioned were information about the City’s future commercial and
residential development plans (31%), affordable housing (13%), street/road and infrastructure
maintenance (13%), environmental issues (8%), public transportation (7%), public safety/crime
statistics (7%), and recreation programs (7%).
30.1
27.9
30.3
30.8
23.2
52.2
16.0
33.3
29.5
34.0
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Male
Female
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
Age (QD1)
Gender (QD2)
Satisfaction With
Communication (Q14)
% Respondents Who Interested in 
Receiving More Info About City
27.0
43.8
32.0
28.2
31.1
17.5
39.2
29.8
31.2
27.4
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Caucasian /
White
Asian
American
Latino /
Hispanic
Mixed or
other
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
Own
Rent
English
Spanish
Ethnicity (QD12)
Overall Satisfaction (Q5)
Home Ownership Status
(QD6)
Survey Language
% Respondents Who Interested in 
Receiving More Info About City
352 of 509

--- page 353 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 41
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Question 16   Please briefly describe the topic.
FIGURE 33  INFORMATION TOPICS DESIRED
SOURCES OF INFORMATION   To help the City identify the most effective means of com-
municating with residents, it is helpful to understand what information sources they currently
rely on for this type of information. Question 17 asked respondents to identify the top three
information sources they typically use to find out about City of San Mateo news, events, and pro-
grams. Because respondents were allowed to provide up to three sources, the percentages
shown in Figure 34 on the next page represent the percentage of residents who mentioned a
particular source and thus sum to more than 100.
The most frequently cited sources for City information in 2022 were the San Mateo Daily Journal
and email notifications from the City, both mentioned by 30% of respondents. These sources
were followed by letters, postcards, flyers, or brochures mailed to the home from the City (24%),
Nextdoor (23%), the Internet not including the City’s site (18%), the City’s website (15%), and
friends/family/associates/word of mouth (15%). When compared to the 2020 survey results, the
percentage who cited the San Mateo Daily Journal, letters, postcards, flyers, or brochures mailed
to the home by the City, and street banners/signs declined significantly, whereas mentions of
the San Francisco Chronicle and television increased significantly. Figures 35-37 present the
information source categories by a number of key demographic traits. For ease of interpretation,
the bars representing city-sponsored sources are displayed in shades of green, and non-city
sources in shades of orange.
30.9
12.9
12.6
8.3
7.1
6.8
6.5
4.3
4.0
3.9
3.8
2.9
2.5
2.4
2.0
1.6
3.1
3.9
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Commercial, residential development, plans
Affordable housing
Streets, roads, infrastructure maintenance 
Environmental issues
Public transportation
Public safety, crime stats
Recreational programs
Traffic issues, updates
Community events
City planning, vision
Parking issues, enforcement
Schools, education
COVID-19 mandates, tests, vaccines
Local economy, businesses
Noise control
Homelessness
Senior assistance
City budgeting, finances
% Respondents Who Desire More Info
353 of 509

--- page 354 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 42
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Question 17   What information sources do you use to find out about City of San Mateo news,
events, and programs?
FIGURE 34  INFORMATION SOURCES BY STUDY YEAR
† Statistically significant change (p < 0.05) between the 2020 and 2022 studies.
FIGURE 35  INFORMATION SOURCES BY STUDY YEAR BY OVERALL, AGE & SATISFACTION WITH COMMUNICATION
29.6
22.9
17.8
15.2
14.5
11.7
4.9
4.3
4.2
4.2
4.0
3.8
3.7
3.1
2.9
2.0
1.7
1.3
0.4
37.1
30.6
31.1
26.2
16.4
15.2
15.7
9.5
10.9
4.5
14.3
2.6
2.7
4.2
2.9
5.9
2.7
6.2
2.0
1.8
1.7
1.6
1.5
0.0
11.4†
12.4†
7.7†
23.7†
30.1†
0
10
20
30
40
San Mateo Daily Journal (daily newspaper)
Email notifications from City
Letters, postcards, flyers or brochures mailed from City
Nextdoor.com
Internet (not City’s site)
City Website
Friends/Family/Associates/word of mouth
San Francisco Chronicle (daily newspaper)
Facebook
Television (general)
Street banners or message signs
Instagram
Twitter
Mercury News (daily newspaper)
Do Not Receive Information about City
HOA or neighborhood association
Other sources
Daily Post (daily newspaper)
Radio
Other newspaper
Other social media site
Not sure
City Council Meetings
Blogs
% Respondents
2022
2020
42
26
29
31
44
53
61
41
48
41
20
48
39
43
30
46
47
39
35
42
40
24
2
27
29
27
25
25
27
20
22
20
20
22
21
20
28
20
24
18
25
14
18
19
17
21
18
17
14
15
10
13
7
15
23
16
13
8
5
9
9
8
8
6
9
4
1
0
2
1
1
2
2
1
1
6
5
10
7
3
4
2
3
8
52
36
45
43
45
34
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
Overall
Age (QD1)
Satisfaction With
Communication (Q14)
% Respondents
Newspapers
City website, emails
Social Media
City newsletters, direct mail
Other sources
Non-City websites
Radio, TV
Street banners, message
signs
City Council Meetings
Not sure / No sources
354 of 509

--- page 355 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 43
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FIGURE 36  INFORMATION SOURCES BY STUDY YEAR BY ETHNICITY, CHILD IN HSLD & ADULT OVER 65 IN HSLD
FIGURE 37  INFORMATION SOURCES BY STUDY YEAR BY YEARS IN SAN MATEO, OVERALL SATISFACTION & SURVEY 
LANGUAGE
COMMUNICATION PREFERENCES   The final substantive question of the survey pre-
sented residents with the methods shown to the left of Figure 38 and asked whether each would
be an effective way for the City to communicate with them. Overall, respondents indicated that
email was the most effective method (84% very or somewhat effective), followed by postcards,
letters, and newsletters mailed to the home (i.e., direct mail, 78%), social media like Facebook,
Twitter, and Nextdoor (78%), and the City’s website (72%). Townhall meetings (52%), television
programs (41%), and advertisements in local papers (40%) were generally viewed by residents as
less effective ways for the City to communicate with them. When compared to 2020, the per-
ceived effectiveness of email declined by a small, but statistically significant 4% (see Table 21).
48
38
36
39
33
22
44
55
35
42
40
42
39
33
45
30
51
51
33
36
40
27
26
13
39
27
31
23
22
25
20
28
17
28
22
25
21
23
21
17
18
19
18
19
12
18
20
17
10
19
20
1
13
17
15
24
10
9
8
6
8
8
10
8
5
9
1
1
2
0
1
0
2
2
1
8
3
6
7
4
8
7
5
6
39
51
39
38
42
44
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
Caucasian /
White
Asian
American
Latino /
Hispanic
Mixed or
other
Yes, under
18
Yes, under 6
None
Yes
No
Ethnicity (QD12)
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Adult Over 65 in Hsld
(QD5)
% Respondents
Newspapers
City website, emails
Social Media
City newsletters, direct mail
Other sources
Non-City websites
Radio, TV
Street banners, message
signs
City Council Meetings
Not sure / No sources
28
32
34
53
42
42
51
42
32
42
50
43
27
43
42
43
39
39
37
39
42
31
30
21
20
25
25
18
25
7
19
16
27
24
22
22
20
23
6
20
20
23
16
17
17
18
18
12
10
11
7
18
15
15
14
13
28
11
7
12
6
8
8
8
8
5
0
0
1
2
1
1
2
1
0
9
3
3
6
5
5
8
5
12
38
39
30
41
40
43
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
Less than 1
1 to 4
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or more
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
English
Spanish
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Overall Satisfaction (Q5)
Survey Language
% Respondents
Newspapers
City website, emails
Social Media
City newsletters, direct mail
Other sources
Non-City websites
Radio, TV
Street banners, message
signs
City Council Meetings
Not sure / No sources
355 of 509

--- page 356 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 44
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Question 18   As I read the following ways that the City of San Mateo can communicate with res-
idents, I'd like to know if you think they would be very effective, somewhat effective, or not an
effective way for the City to communicate with you.
FIGURE 38  EFFECTIVENESS OF COMMUNICATION METHODS
TABLE 21  EFFECTIVENESS OF COMMUNICATION METHODS BY STUDY YEAR
† Statistically significant change (p < 0.05) between the 2020 and 2022 studies.
Tables 22-24 show how the percentage of residents that rated each communication method as
very effective varied depending on their age, ethnicity, satisfaction with the City’s overall efforts
to provide municipal services, presence and age(s) of children in the home, satisfaction with city-
resident communication, and survey language.
TABLE 22  EFFECTIVENESS OF COMMUNICATION METHODS BY AGE (SHOWING % VERY EFFECTIVE)
50.1
38.8
38.0
26.6
10.5
11.4
8.9
33.6
39.3
39.8
45.8
41.3
29.2
31.4
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Email
Postcards, letters and newsletters mailed to your home
Social media like Facebook, Twitter and Next Door
City’s Website
Townhall meetings
Television programs
Advertisements in local papers
% Respondents
Very effective
Somewhat effective
2022
2020
City’s Website
72.4
69.3
+3.1
Townhall meetings
51.9
49.3
+2.6
Television programs
40.7
39.6
+1.1
Social media like Facebook, Twitter and Next Door
77.8
76.8
+1.1
Postcards, letters and newsletters mailed to your home
78.0
78.7
-0.7
Advertisements in local papers
40.3
43.4
-3.1
Email
83.7
87.9
-4.1†
Change in
Very + Smwt
Effective
2020 to 2022
Study Year
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Email
44.6
45.5
54.6
52.5
55.1
51.5
Postcards, letters and newsletters mailed to your home
46.2
37.0
42.7
33.3
42.4
37.1
Social media like Facebook, Twitter and Next Door
62.5
43.0
39.6
41.9
35.4
20.6
City’s Website
33.5
26.7
22.7
33.5
28.1
21.0
Television programs
12.5
6.9
10.5
11.9
12.7
13.2
Townhall meetings
17.7
6.6
10.2
7.9
10.6
12.3
Advertisements in local papers
17.9
6.4
7.1
5.4
9.7
9.2
Age (QD1)
356 of 509

--- page 357 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 45
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 23  EFFECTIVENESS OF COMMUNICATION METHODS BY ETHNICITY & OVERALL SATISFACTION (SHOWING % VERY 
EFFECTIVE)
TABLE 24  EFFECTIVENESS OF COMMUNICATION METHODS BY CHILD IN HSLD, SATISFACTION WITH COMMUNICATION & 
SURVEY LANGUAGE (SHOWING % VERY EFFECTIVE)
Caucasian
/ White
Asian 
American
Latino / 
Hispanic
Mixed or 
other
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
Email
54.4
49.5
46.4
45.6
49.3
49.8
Postcards, letters and newsletters mailed to your home
40.5
30.6
40.3
42.2
40.4
38.5
Social media like Facebook, Twitter and Next Door
38.9
33.4
42.9
30.7
27.1
43.1
City’s Website
24.2
24.0
30.0
30.4
25.3
27.8
Television programs
9.5
14.8
9.2
12.8
14.7
9.1
Townhall meetings
12.3
2.7
11.9
15.0
12.7
9.4
Advertisements in local papers
6.6
7.1
11.9
10.9
11.7
7.5
Ethnicity (QD12)
Overall Satisfaction (Q5)
Yes,
under 18
Yes,
under 6
None
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
English
Spanish
Email
52.8
48.7
48.5
52.3
48.6
50.1
50.8
Postcards, letters and newsletters mailed to your home
39.5
42.7
38.7
41.7
36.6
38.6
41.0
Social media like Facebook, Twitter and Next Door
45.0
43.0
35.4
42.1
35.6
37.9
39.8
City’s Website
25.6
19.5
27.6
30.3
21.7
26.0
34.4
Television programs
10.6
13.0
11.3
11.6
12.8
11.6
9.7
Townhall meetings
7.6
9.4
11.9
10.3
12.3
10.5
10.6
Advertisements in local papers
7.2
6.0
9.3
9.5
8.8
8.7
12.3
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Satisfaction With 
Communication (Q14)
Survey Language
357 of 509

--- page 358 ---
Background & Demographics
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 46
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
B A C K G R O U N D  &  D E M O G R A P H I C S
TABLE 25  DEMOGRAPHICS OF SAMPLE BY STUDY YEAR
Table 25 presents the key demographic information
collected during the survey. In additional to providing
insights into how the results of the survey vary across
demographic subgroups, the information is also used
to ensure that the survey sample matches the profile
of San Mateo’s adult population on key characteristics
based on the latest Census figures.
2022
2020
Total Respondents
775
1,276
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Less than 1
5.7
5.8
1 to 4
16.7
18.5
5 to 9
14.8
12.8
10 to 14
10.8
10.1
15 or more
51.9
52.4
Prefer not to answer
0.1
0.4
Age (QD1)
18 to 24
8.6
9.0
25 to 34
23.4
20.5
35 to 44
17.8
21.0
45 to 54
15.2
16.8
55 to 64
13.7
12.8
65 or older
16.8
15.7
Prefer not to answer
4.3
4.2
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Yes, under 18
28.6
34.3
Yes, under 6
11.8
16.5
None
67.1
60.5
Prefer not to answer
4.4
5.2
Adult Over 65 in Hsld (QD5)
Yes
29.2
32.1
No
66.2
63.0
Prefer not to answer
4.6
4.9
Home Ownership Status (QD6)
Own
49.5
56.7
Rent
45.8
40.1
Prefer not to answer
4.7
3.2
Home Type (QD7)
Single family
51.8
60.1
Townhome
7.5
8.4
Condo
10.9
9.6
Apartment
26.0
18.5
Prefer not to answer
3.9
3.3
Anticipated Years in San Mateo (QD8)
Less than 5
20.5
20.0
5 to 10
29.6
25.2
11 to 15
9.2
10.5
16 or more
32.1
33.7
Prefer not to answer
8.6
10.5
Employment Status (QD9)
Full-time
61.4
63.4
Part-time
5.8
5.3
Student
5.3
5.4
Homemaker
1.1
2.5
Retired
18.0
15.6
Between jobs
3.8
2.2
Prefer not to answer
4.6
5.5
Ethnicity (QD12)
Caucasian / White
39.2
39.8
Asian American
21.6
18.3
Latino / Hispanic
27.4
23.5
Mixed or other
7.3
10.4
Prefer not to answer
4.5
8.0
Gender
Male
47.8
45.2
Female
46.1
50.5
Not listed
0.2
0.6
Prefer not to answer
5.9
3.7
Study Year
358 of 509

--- page 359 ---
Methodology
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 47
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
M E T H O D O L O G Y
The following sections outline the methodology used in the study, as well as the motivation for
using certain techniques.
QUESTIONNAIRE DEVELOPMENT   Dr. McLarney of True North Research worked closely
with the City of San Mateo to develop a questionnaire that covered the topics of interest and
avoided many possible sources of systematic measurement error, including position-order
effects, wording effects, response-category effects, scaling effects, and priming. Several ques-
tions included multiple individual items. Because asking items in a set order can lead to a sys-
tematic position bias in responses, the items were asked in a random order for each respondent.
Some questions asked in this study were presented only to a subset of respondents. For exam-
ple, only respondents who indicated they were interested in additional information from the City
(Question 15) were subsequently asked to briefly describe their topics of interest (Question 16).
The questionnaire included with this report (see Questionnaire & Toplines on page 50) identifies
the skip patterns used during the interview to ensure that each respondent received the appro-
priate questions.
PROGRAMMING, PRE-TEST & TRANSLATION   Prior to fielding the survey, the ques-
tionnaire was CATI (Computer Assisted Telephone Interviewing) programmed to assist interview-
ers when conducting the telephone interviews. The CATI program automatically navigates the
skip patterns, randomizes the appropriate question items, and alerts interviewers to certain
types of keypunching mistakes should they happen during the interview. The survey was also
programmed into a passcode-protected online survey application to allow online participation
for sampled households. The integrity of the questionnaire was pre-tested internally by True
North and by dialing into random homes in the City prior to formally beginning the survey. The
final questionnaire was also professionally translated into Spanish to allow for data collection in
English and Spanish according to the preference of the respondent.
SAMPLE, RECRUITING & DATA COLLECTION   A comprehensive database of house-
holds in the City of San Mateo was utilized for this study, ensuring that all households in San
Mateo had the opportunity to be selected for the survey. After random selection, households
were recruited to participate in the survey using a combination of mailed letters, email invita-
tions, text invitations, and telephone calls to both land lines and mobile lines, as appropriate.
The mail, email, and text invitations contained a unique passcode so that only those invited
could access the secure survey site, and they could complete the survey one-time only. Following
a period of online data collection, True North recruited by telephone to households that had yet
to participate in the online survey in response to the mail, email, and/or text invitations, or for
which only telephone contact information was available.
Telephone interviews averaged 18 minutes in length and were conducted during weekday eve-
nings (5:30PM to 9PM) and on weekends (10AM to 5PM). It is standard practice not to call during
the day on weekdays because most working adults are unavailable and thus calling during those
hours would bias the sample. A total of 775 completed surveys were gathered online and by tele-
phone between January 21 and February 2, 2022.
359 of 509

--- page 360 ---
Methodology
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 48
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
MARGIN OF ERROR DUE TO SAMPLING   The results of the survey can be used to esti-
mate the opinions of all adult residents of the City. Because not every adult resident of the City
participated in the survey, however, the results have what is known as a statistical margin of
error due to sampling. The margin of error refers to the difference between what was found in
the survey of 775 adult residents for a particular question and what would have been found if all
of the estimated 83,578 adult residents3 had been interviewed.
Figure 39 provides a plot of the maximum margin of error in this study. The maximum margin of
error for a dichotomous percentage result occurs when the answers are evenly split such that
50% provide one response and 50% provide the alternative response. For this survey, the maxi-
mum margin of error is ± 3.5% for questions answered by all 775 respondents.
FIGURE 39  MAXIMUM MARGIN OF ERROR
Within this report, figures and tables show how responses to certain questions varied by demo-
graphic characteristics such as length of residence and age of the respondent. Figure 39 is thus
useful for understanding how the maximum margin of error for a percentage estimate will grow
as the number of individuals asked a question (or in a particular subgroup) shrinks. Because the
margin of error grows exponentially as the sample size decreases, the reader should use caution
when generalizing and interpreting the results for small subgroups.
DATA PROCESSING & WEIGHTING   Data processing consisted of checking the data for
errors or inconsistencies, coding and recoding responses, categorizing verbatim responses, and
preparing frequency analyses and cross-tabulations. The final data were weighted to balance the
sample by age and ethnicity according to Census estimates.
3. US Census Bureau estimate, April 2020.
775 Respondents
 ± 3.5%
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
10%
12%
14%
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600
Sample Size (Number of Respondents)
Margin of Error
360 of 509

--- page 361 ---
Methodology
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 49
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ROUNDING    Numbers that end in 0.5 or higher are rounded up to the nearest whole num-
ber, whereas numbers that end in 0.4 or lower are rounded down to the nearest whole number.
These same rounding rules are also applied, when needed, to arrive at numbers that include a
decimal place in constructing figures and tables. Occasionally, these rounding rules lead to small
discrepancies in the first decimal place when comparing tables and charts for a given question.
Due to rounding, some figures and narrative include numbers that add to more than or less than
100%.
361 of 509

--- page 362 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 50
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Q U E S T I O N N A I R E  &  T O P L I N E S
      
 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 1 
City of San Mateo  Community Opinion Survey 
Phone Version  
Final Toplines (n=775) 
February 2022 
Section 1: Introduction to Study 
Hi, may I please speak to: _____. Hi, my name is _____ and Im calling from TNR, an 
independent public opinion research company. Were conducting a survey for the City of San 
Mateo (Muh-TAY-O) about important issues and we would like to get your opinions. 
If needed: This is a survey about important issues in your community. Im NOT trying to sell 
anything and I wont ask for a donation. 
If needed: The survey should take about 12 minutes to complete. 
If needed: If now is not a convenient time, can you let me know a better time so I can call 
back? 
 
Section 2: Quality of Life 
Id like to begin by asking you a few questions about what it is like to live in the City of San 
Mateo. 
Q1 
How long have you lived in the City of San Mateo? 
 
1 
Less than 1 year 
6% 
 
2 
1 to 4 years 
17% 
 
3 
5 to 9 years 
15% 
 
4 
10 to 14 years 
11% 
 
5 
15 years or longer 
52% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
0% 
Q2 
How would you rate: _____? Would you say it is excellent, good, fair, poor or very poor? 
 
Always ask A first, then randomize 
remaining items 
Excellent 
Good 
Fair 
Poor 
Very Poor 
Not sure 
Prefer not to 
answer 
A 
The overall quality of life in the City of San 
Mateo 
24% 
61% 
11% 
3% 
1% 
0% 
0% 
B 
San Mateo as a place to raise a family 
26% 
42% 
17% 
3% 
3% 
7% 
2% 
C 
San Mateo as a place to work 
18% 
44% 
16% 
3% 
1% 
16% 
2% 
D 
San Mateo as a place to retire 
10% 
27% 
23% 
18% 
10% 
12% 
1% 
E 
San Mateo as a place to shop and dine 
26% 
51% 
18% 
3% 
1% 
0% 
0% 
F 
San Mateo as a place to recreate 
18% 
41% 
28% 
5% 
3% 
5% 
1% 
362 of 509

--- page 363 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 51
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 2 
 
Q3 
What do you like most about the City of San Mateo that should be preserved in the 
future? Verbatim responses recorded and later grouped into categories shown below. 
 
Parks, recreation facilities, opportunities 
24% 
 
Shopping, dining opportunities 
16% 
 
Not sure / Cannot think of anything specific 
13% 
 
Proximity to surrounding cities, areas 
12% 
 
Open, green space, mountains 
12% 
 
Diversity of businesses, cultures, activities 
9% 
 
Small town atmosphere 
8% 
 
Low crime, public safety 
7% 
 
Downtown area 
7% 
 
Friendly people, neighbors 
6% 
 
Weather, clean air 
5% 
 
Good schools 
4% 
 
Clean, well-maintained 
3% 
 
Sense of community 
3% 
 
Access to bay, ocean 
3% 
 
Access to public transportation 
3% 
 
Affordable houses 
2% 
 
Historical places 
2% 
 
Outdoor activities 
2% 
 
Less crowded, traffic than other cities 
2% 
 
Family friendly 
2% 
 
Availability of parking 
2% 
Q4 
If the city government could change one thing to make San Mateo a better place to live 
now and in the future, what change would you like to see? Verbatim responses recorded 
and later grouped into categories shown below. 
 
Provide more affordable housing 
19% 
 
Limit growth, preserve open space 
13% 
 
Not sure / Cannot think of anything specific 
10% 
 
Improve public safety, more police presence 
8% 
 
Improve, maintain infrastructure, streets, 
roads 
7% 
 
Provide more shopping, dining 
opportunities 
6% 
 
Reduce traffic congestion 
6% 
 
Reduce cost of living 
5% 
 
Address parking issues 
5% 
363 of 509

--- page 364 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 52
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 3 
 
Reduce taxes, fees 
4% 
 
Beautify, clean up City 
4% 
 
No changes needed / Everything is fine 
4% 
 
Add, improve bike lanes 
3% 
 
Improve, add parks, rec facilities 
3% 
 
Reduce building permit restrictions 
3% 
 
Enforce traffic laws 
3% 
 
Improve public transit 
3% 
 
Improve economy, jobs 
3% 
 
Provide more activities, events for all ages 
3% 
 
Improve schools, education 
2% 
 
Address homeless issues 
2% 
 
Improve City Council, gov process 
2% 
 
Improve downtown area 
2% 
 
Improve environmental efforts 
2% 
 
Section 3: City Services 
Next, I would like to ask a series of questions about services provided by the City of San 
Mateo. 
Q5 
Generally speaking, are you satisfied or dissatisfied with the job the City of San Mateo is 
doing to provide city services? Get answer, then ask: Would that be very 
(satisfied/dissatisfied) or somewhat (satisfied/dissatisfied)?  
 
1 
Very satisfied 
25% 
 
2 
Somewhat satisfied 
49% 
 
3 
Somewhat dissatisfied 
11% 
 
4 
Very dissatisfied 
5% 
 
98 
Not sure 
10% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
1% 
364 of 509

--- page 365 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 53
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 4 
 
Q6 
For each of the services I read next, I’d like you to tell me how satisfied you are with 
the job the city is doing to provide the service. Are you satisfied or dissatisfied with the 
city’s efforts to: _____, or do you not have an opinion? Get answer. If ‘satisfied’ or 
‘dissatisfied’, then ask: Would that be very (satisfied/dissatisfied) or somewhat 
(satisfied/dissatisfied)? 
 
Randomize 
Very 
Satisfied 
Somewhat 
Satisfied 
Somewhat 
Dissatisfied 
Very 
Dissatisfied 
Not sure 
Prefer not to 
answer 
A 
Provide police and crime prevention 
services 
26% 
43% 
13% 
8% 
11% 
1% 
B 
Promote economic development to attract 
new businesses and good-paying jobs to 
the community 
12% 
36% 
17% 
7% 
25% 
3% 
C 
Prepare the city for emergencies and 
natural disasters 
14% 
37% 
13% 
3% 
31% 
1% 
D 
Provide fire protection, prevention and 
emergency medical services 
39% 
41% 
4% 
2% 
14% 
1% 
E 
Manage traffic congestion 
10% 
35% 
30% 
19% 
7% 
0% 
F 
Address homelessness 
8% 
25% 
25% 
20% 
20% 
2% 
G 
Maintain public buildings and facilities like 
City Hall, libraries and parking garages 
36% 
48% 
6% 
2% 
9% 
0% 
H 
Maintain local streets and roads 
13% 
39% 
26% 
19% 
3% 
0% 
I 
Maintain storm drains, sewers and creeks 
19% 
47% 
15% 
7% 
12% 
1% 
J 
Provide parks, sports fields and recreation 
facilities 
38% 
46% 
9% 
4% 
3% 
0% 
K 
Provide a variety of recreation programs for 
all ages 
27% 
37% 
12% 
3% 
19% 
1% 
L 
Provide special events like community 
festivals and holiday celebrations 
19% 
43% 
16% 
6% 
15% 
2% 
M 
Enforce code violations to address issues 
like abandoned vehicles, non-permitted 
construction, and yards not being properly 
maintained 
15% 
34% 
14% 
12% 
23% 
2% 
N 
Protect the environment 
17% 
43% 
13% 
7% 
19% 
1% 
O 
Provide paths and trails for walking, 
jogging, and running 
29% 
49% 
13% 
5% 
4% 
0% 
P 
Provide bicycle lanes and paths 
20% 
41% 
18% 
9% 
9% 
2% 
Q 
Cleaning up litter and trash that people 
dump along streets, sidewalks and in public 
areas 
21% 
39% 
23% 
14% 
3% 
0% 
R 
Facilitate the creation of affordable housing 
7% 
0% 
19% 
23% 
31% 
17% 
 
365 of 509

--- page 366 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 54
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 5 
 
Section 4: Housing & Land Use 
Next, I would like to ask a few questions about the availability of housing in the City of San 
Mateo. 
Q7 
As I read the following housing types, please tell me whether you feel there is currently 
too much, about the right amount, or too little of this type of housing in the City of San 
Mateo. 
 
Randomize 
Too Much 
About 
Right 
Too Little  
Not sure 
Prefer not 
to answer 
A 
Housing that is affordable for middle-
income families 
4% 
20% 
66% 
9% 
0% 
B 
Housing that is affordable for low-income 
families 
8% 
12% 
64% 
16% 
1% 
Q8 
California State law requires that all cities plan for additional housing. With a general 
shortage of housing in California, the state is requiring that the City of San Mateo plan 
for thousands of new housing units. 
 
There are a variety of factors the City can consider when deciding where new housing 
may be located and the types of housing that may be built. As I read the following list of 
items, Id like to know how important you feel the item should be as the City plans for 
future housing over the next 20 years. Please keep in mind that not all of the items can 
be extremely important. 
 
Here is the (first/next) item: ______. Should this City make this an extremely important, 
very important, somewhat important, or not important factor when planning future 
housing? 
 
Randomize 
Extremely 
Important 
Very 
Important 
Somewhat 
Important 
Not 
Important 
Not sure 
Prefer not to 
answer 
A 
Creating homes that are affordable for low- 
and middle-income residents 
45% 
29% 
17% 
8% 
1% 
0% 
B 
Preserving open space and creating new 
park lands 
43% 
35% 
19% 
2% 
1% 
0% 
C 
Minimizing vehicle trips and traffic 
congestion 
34% 
41% 
19% 
4% 
1% 
0% 
D 
Ensuring sufficient parking spaces 
28% 
37% 
26% 
7% 
1% 
0% 
E 
Locating additional shops and restaurants 
near new housing units 
17% 
31% 
37% 
13% 
2% 
0% 
F 
Creating commercial zones that will attract 
high-paying jobs 
13% 
33% 
35% 
16% 
2% 
0% 
G 
Creating pedestrian-friendly areas that 
encourage people to walk rather than drive 
40% 
35% 
18% 
5% 
1% 
0% 
H 
Improving access to transit and increasing 
transit ridership 
31% 
38% 
22% 
7% 
2% 
0% 
I 
Creating bike lanes and paths 
22% 
31% 
32% 
13% 
1% 
1% 
366 of 509

--- page 367 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 55
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 6 
 
J 
Minimizing pollution and greenhouse gas 
emissions 
44% 
34% 
14% 
6% 
1% 
0% 
K 
Preserving the Citys historic buildings and 
resources 
26% 
32% 
28% 
13% 
1% 
0% 
L 
Keeping building heights low 
21% 
22% 
25% 
29% 
3% 
0% 
M 
Ensuring that the impacts of growth are not 
concentrated in disadvantaged areas 
28% 
31% 
24% 
11% 
5% 
1% 
N 
Producing the revenue necessary to pay for 
the cost of providing police, fire, and other 
city services to the new housing units 
29% 
43% 
20% 
4% 
3% 
1% 
O 
Ensuring adequate water supplies 
62% 
31% 
5% 
1% 
2% 
0% 
P 
Having a plan that will meet the States 
requirements for at least the next 20 years 
25% 
40% 
21% 
9% 
5% 
1% 
Q 
Avoiding new development in areas that are 
at higher risk of natural hazards, climate 
change, or sea level rise 
39% 
35% 
17% 
6% 
3% 
0% 
R 
Minimizing the number of new units added 
to single-family neighborhoods 
24% 
21% 
23% 
27% 
5% 
0% 
Q9 
Concentrating new housing in taller, higher-density buildings downtown and near 
transit would allow more land to be reserved for parks, recreation areas, and community 
amenities, and will minimize change to existing residential neighborhoods. Knowing 
this, would you support or oppose concentrating future housing in higher-density 
buildings up to 12 stories. Get answer, then ask: Would that be strongly 
(support/oppose) or somewhat (support/oppose)? 
 
1 
Strongly support 
33% 
Skip to Q11 
 
2 
Somewhat support 
30% 
Ask Q10 
 
3 
Somewhat oppose 
14% 
Ask Q10 
 
4 
Strongly oppose 
21% 
Ask Q10 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
2% 
Ask Q10 
Q10 
Would you support or oppose concentrating future housing in higher-density buildings 
up to 8 stories. Get answer, then ask: Would that be strongly (support/oppose) or 
somewhat (support/oppose)? 
 
1 
Strongly support 
16% 
 
2 
Somewhat support 
36% 
 
3 
Somewhat oppose 
20% 
 
4 
Strongly oppose 
27% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
2% 
 
367 of 509

--- page 368 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 56
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 7 
 
Section 5: Mobility 
Q11 When traveling within the City of San Mateo, how often do you: _____? Read options if 
needed: Five or more days per week, 1 to 4 days per week,. 
 
Read in Order 
5+ days per 
week 
1 to 4 days per 
week 
2 to 3 days per 
month 
1 day per 
month 
Less than 1 
day per month 
Never 
Prefer not to 
answer 
A 
Use a personal vehicle 
52% 
35% 
8% 
1% 
1% 
3% 
0% 
B 
Use public transit such as a bus or train 
3% 
4% 
5% 
7% 
22% 
58% 
1% 
C 
Use Uber, Lyft or taxi 
1% 
3% 
12% 
8% 
33% 
42% 
1% 
D 
Walk from your home to a local store or 
restaurant 
16% 
29% 
19% 
9% 
11% 
15% 
1% 
E 
Ride a bicycle or a scooter 
6% 
12% 
9% 
6% 
15% 
49% 
2% 
Q12 
A growing population will naturally lead to greater traffic congestion in the future 
unless improvements are made to the Citys transportation system and we find ways to 
reduce the number of trips people make by driving in a typical day. 
 
As I read the following list of actions that could be used to help reduce traffic 
congestion, please indicate whether you think the City should make it a high priority, a 
medium priority, or a low priority for the Citys future. If you dont think the City should 
take the action, just say so. Please keep in mind that not all actions can be a high 
priority. 
 
Here is the (first/next) one: _____. Should this be a high, medium, or low priority for the 
Citys future, or should the City not take this action? 
 
Randomize 
High priority 
Medium 
priority 
Low priority 
Not a priority 
Not Sure 
Prefer not to 
answer 
A 
Increase programs that encourage 
carpooling, vanpooling, and ridesharing 
16% 
41% 
24% 
15% 
4% 
0% 
B 
Expand the network of dedicated bike lanes 
and shared lanes to encourage more 
bicycling 
28% 
35% 
21% 
13% 
3% 
0% 
C 
Improve sidewalks, crosswalks, pedestrian 
safety, signs, and infrastructure to encourage 
more walking 
56% 
28% 
11% 
4% 
2% 
0% 
D 
Improve safe routes to school to encourage 
more kids to walk and bike to school 
52% 
32% 
9% 
4% 
3% 
0% 
E 
Add Bikeshare services with bikes available 
at kiosks for public use 
15% 
35% 
28% 
18% 
4% 
0% 
F 
Improve bus and shuttle services with more 
routes and more frequent service within San 
Mateo and to neighboring areas 
33% 
38% 
15% 
8% 
5% 
0% 
G 
Provide financial incentives to encourage 
greater use of transit 
27% 
37% 
21% 
12% 
3% 
0% 
368 of 509

--- page 369 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 57
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 8 
H 
Make infrastructure improvements needed to 
support autonomous/driverless shuttles 
and vehicles 
19% 
26% 
25% 
24% 
6% 
0% 
I 
Create bus-only lanes to improve travel 
times when using transit 
13% 
27% 
26% 
28% 
6% 
1% 
Q13 
Adding bike lanes and widening sidewalks will make it easier to travel around the City 
without using a car and could help reduce traffic congestion and greenhouse gas 
emissions. However, adding bike lanes and widening sidewalks could also require 
removing a vehicle lane or parking spaces in certain locations. 
 
Knowing this, do you generally support or oppose adding bike lanes and widening 
sidewalks in San Mateo? Get answer, then ask: Would that be strongly (support/oppose) 
or somewhat (support/oppose)? 
 
1 
Strongly support 
30% 
 
2 
Somewhat support 
35% 
 
3 
Somewhat oppose 
16% 
 
4 
Strongly oppose 
17% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
2% 
 
Section 6: Communications 
Q14 
Overall, are you satisfied or dissatisfied with the Citys efforts to communicate with 
residents through newsletters, the Internet, social media, and other means? Get answer, 
then ask: Would that be very (satisfied/dissatisfied) or somewhat (satisfied/dissatisfied)? 
 
1 
Very satisfied 
18% 
 
2 
Somewhat satisfied 
44% 
 
3 
Somewhat dissatisfied 
17% 
 
4 
Very dissatisfied 
8% 
 
98 
No Opinion/Not Sure 
13% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
0% 
Q15 Is there a particular topic or issue that youd like to receive more information about 
from the City? 
 
1 
Yes 
30% 
Ask Q16 
 
2 
No 
62% 
Skip to Q17  
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
8% 
Skip to Q17 
369 of 509

--- page 370 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 58
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 9 
 
Q16 Please briefly describe the topic. Verbatim responses recorded and later grouped into 
categories shown below. 
 
Commercial, housing developments, 
density 
31% 
 
Affordable housing 
13% 
 
Streets, roads, infrastructure maintenance  
13% 
 
Environmental issues 
8% 
 
Recreational programs 
7% 
 
Public transportation 
7% 
 
Public safety, crime stats 
7% 
 
Community events 
4% 
 
Schools, education 
4% 
 
Traffic issues, updates 
4% 
 
Parking issues, enforcement 
4% 
 
City planning, vision 
4% 
 
Noise control 
3% 
 
COVID-19 mandates, tests, vaccines 
3% 
 
Local economy, businesses 
3% 
 
City budgeting, finances 
2% 
 
Senior assistance 
2% 
 
Homelessness 
2% 
Q17 What information sources do you use to find out about City of San Mateo news, events, 
and programs? Dont read list. Record up to first 3 responses. 
Newspapers 
 
1 
San Francisco Chronicle (daily 
newspaper) 
12% 
 
2 
Mercury News (daily newspaper) 
4% 
 
3 
San Mateo Daily Journal (daily 
newspaper) 
30% 
 
4 
Daily Post (daily newspaper) 
4% 
 
5 
Other newspaper 
3% 
City Sources 
 
6 
City Website 
15% 
 
7 
Email notifications from City 
30% 
 
8 
Letters, postcards, flyers or brochures 
mailed from City to your home 
24% 
 
9 
Street banners or message signs 
8% 
 
10 
City Council Meetings 
1% 
370 of 509

--- page 371 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 59
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 10 
Internet & Social Media 
 
11 
Internet (not Citys site) 
18% 
 
12 
Facebook 
12% 
 
13 
Twitter 
4% 
 
14 
Instagram 
5% 
 
15 
Other social media site 
2% 
 
16 
Nextdoor.com 
23% 
 
17 
Blogs 
0% 
Other 
 
18 
Television (general) 
11% 
 
19 
Radio 
3% 
 
20 
HOA or neighborhood association 
4% 
 
21 
Friends/Family/Associates/word of 
mouth 
14% 
 
22 
Other 
4% 
 
23 
Do Not Receive Information about City 
4% 
 
98 
Not sure 
2% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
1% 
Q18 
As I read the following ways that the City of San Mateo can communicate with residents, 
Id like to know if you think they would be very effective, somewhat effective, or not an 
effective way for the City to communicate with you. 
 
Randomize 
Very 
Effective 
Somewhat 
Effective 
Not 
Effective 
Not Sure 
Prefer not 
to answer 
A 
Email 
50% 
34% 
11% 
4% 
1% 
B 
Postcards, letters and newsletters mailed to 
your home 
39% 
39% 
18% 
3% 
1% 
C 
Citys Website 
27% 
46% 
19% 
8% 
1% 
D 
Advertisements in local papers 
9% 
31% 
48% 
10% 
1% 
E 
Social media like Facebook, Twitter and 
Next Door 
38% 
40% 
13% 
7% 
1% 
F 
Townhall meetings 
11% 
41% 
36% 
10% 
1% 
G 
Television programs  
11% 
29% 
48% 
10% 
1% 
 
371 of 509

--- page 372 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 60
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 11 
 
Section 7: Background & Demographics 
Thank you so much for your participation. I have just a few background questions for 
statistical purposes. 
D1 
In what year were you born? Year recoded into age groups shown below. 
 
18 to 24 
9% 
 
25 to 34 
23% 
 
35 to 44 
18% 
 
45 to 54 
15% 
 
55 to 64 
14% 
 
65 or older 
17% 
 
Prefer not to answer 
4% 
D2 
What is your gender? 
 
1 
Male 
48% 
 
2 
Female 
46% 
 
3 
Non-binary 
<1% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
6% 
D3 
Do you have one or more children under the age of 18 living in your household? 
 
1 
Yes 
29% 
Ask D4 
 
2 
No 
67% 
Skip to D5 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
4% 
Skip to D5 
D4 
Do you have one or more children under the age of six living in your household? 
 
1 
Yes 
41% 
 
2 
No 
57% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
2% 
D5 
Do you have one or more adults 65 years of age or older in your household? 
 
1 
Yes 
29% 
 
2 
No 
66% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
5% 
372 of 509

--- page 373 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 61
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 12 
 
D6 
Do you own or rent your residence in San Mateo? 
 
1 
Own 
49% 
 
2 
Rent 
46% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
5% 
D7 
Which of the following best describes your current home? 
 
1 
Single family detached home 
52% 
 
2 
Townhome 
7% 
 
3 
Condominium 
11% 
 
4 
Apartment 
26% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
4% 
D8 
How many more years do you anticipate that you will be living in the City of San Mateo? 
 
1 
Less than 5 years 
21% 
 
2 
5 to 10 years 
30% 
 
3 
11 to 15 years 
9% 
 
4 
16 years or more 
32% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
9% 
D9 
Which of the following best describes your employment status? Would you say you are 
employed full-time, part-time, a student, a homemaker, retired, or are you in-between 
jobs right now? 
 
1 
Employed full-time 
61% 
Ask D10 
 
2 
Employed part-time 
6% 
Ask D10 
 
3 
Student 
5% 
Skip to D12 
 
4 
Homemaker 
1% 
Skip to D12 
 
5 
Retired 
18% 
Skip to D12 
 
6 
In-between jobs 
4% 
Skip to D12 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
5% 
Skip to D12 
D10 Are you currently working from home, commuting to a workplace outside of your home, 
or a mixture of both? 
 
1 
Working from home 
31% 
Ask D11 
 
2 
Commuting to a workplace outside 
home 
35% 
Skip to D12 
 
3 
Mixture of both 
34% 
Ask D11 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
1% 
Skip to D12 
373 of 509

--- page 374 ---
Questionnaire & Toplines
True North Research, Inc. © 2022 62
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of San Mateo Community Opinion Survey 
February 2022 
True North Research, Inc. © 2021 
Page 13 
D11 How many days do you primarily work from home in a typical week? 
 
0 
Zero 
1% 
 
1 
One 
4% 
 
2 
Two 
14% 
 
3 
Three 
17% 
 
4 
Four 
15% 
 
5 
Five or more 
47% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
2% 
D12 What ethnic group do you consider yourself a part of or feel closest to? Read list if 
respondent hesitates. 
 
1 
Caucasian/White 
39% 
 
2 
Asian -- Korean, Chinese, Vietnamese, 
Japanese, Filipino or other Asian 
22% 
 
3 
Indian (India) 
2% 
 
4 
Latino/Hispanic/Mexican 
27% 
 
5 
African-American/Black 
2% 
 
6 
Native American Indian or Alaskan 
Native 
<1% 
 
7 
Pacific Islander 
1% 
 
8 
Mixed Heritage 
2% 
 
9 
Other 
1% 
 
99 
Prefer not to answer 
5% 
Those are all of the questions that I have for you. Thanks so much for participating in this 
important survey! This survey was conducted for the City of San Mateo. 
 
Post Interview Items 
S1 
Survey Language 
 
1 
English 
93% 
 
2 
Spanish 
7% 
 
374 of 509

--- page 375 ---
0.2

0.4
Miles

Planning Commission Preferred Scenario

| a | Study Areas
i} San Mateo City Limit
| a | Sphere of Influence

t___* Historic Districts

% Property Owner Requests

@) Privately Owned Public Open Space
1 Caltrain Station

—— Caltrain

~~ * 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain

|___1 ¥2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain

V///, Housing Element - Adequate Sites

mii: Pipeline Projects
__ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
I) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
MN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
Office Low (1-3 stories)
NO Office Medium (4-7 stories)
HE Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
MO Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
|) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
MW Parks/ Open Space
INN) Public Facilities
ME Quasi-Public

QE Transportation Corridor

Utilities
days Area 1-N



--- page 376 ---
®

0.13

0.25
Miles

Planning Commission Preferred Scenario

| a | Study Areas
i} San Mateo City Limit
| a | Sphere of Influence

t___* Historic Districts

% Property Owner Requests
@) Privately Owned Public Open Space
1 Caltrain Station

—— Caltrain

~~ * 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain

|__| ¥2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain

V///., Housing Element - Adequate Sites

mii: Pipeline Projects
__ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
I) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
MN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
Office Low (1-3 stories)
NO Office Medium (4-7 stories)
ME Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
MO Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
|) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
MW Parks/ Open Space
Public Facilities
ME Quasi-Public

QE Transportation Corridor

Utilities
study Area 1-C



--- page 377 ---
®

0.05

0.1
Miles

Planning Commission Preferred Scenario

CJ study Areas

: | San Mateo City Limit

(=) sphere of Influence
% Property Owner Requests

@) Privately Owned Public Open Space
(1 Caltrain Station

—— Caltrain

“~~ _* 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain

|__| ¥2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain

V///., Housing Element - Adequate Sites

mii: Pipeline Projects
__ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
I) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
MN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
Office Low (1-3 stories)
NO Office Medium (4-7 stories)
ME Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
MO Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
|) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
MM Parks/ Open Space
INN) Public Facilities
ME Quasi-Public

QE Transportation Corridor
Utilities

splway Area 1-S


--- page 378 ---
®

0.1

0.2
Miles

Planning Commission Preferred Scenario

| a | Study Areas
i} San Mateo City Limit
| a | Sphere of Influence

t___* Historic Districts

% Property Owner Requests
@) Privately Owned Public Open Space
1 Caltrain Station

—— Caltrain

~~ * 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain

|__| ¥2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain

V///., Housing Element - Adequate Sites

mii: Pipeline Projects
__ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
I) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
WM Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
MN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
Office Low (1-3 stories)
NO Office Medium (4-7 stories)
ME Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
MO Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
|) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
MW Parks/ Open Space
INN) Public Facilities
ME Quasi-Public

QE Transportation Corridor

Utilities
x atkeydy Area 2


--- page 379 ---
0.38

0.75
Miles

Planning Commission Preferred Scenario

CJ study Areas

: | San Mateo City Limit

(=) sphere of Influence
% = Property Owner Requests

@) Privately Owned Public Open Space
(1 Caltrain Station

—— Caltrain

"~~ 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain

|__| ¥2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain

V///., Housing Element - Adequate Sites

mii: Pipeline Projects
__ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
I) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
MN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
Office Low (1-3 stories)
NO Office Medium (4-7 stories)
ME Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
MO Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
' Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
MM Parks/ Open Space
INN) Public Facilities
ME Quasi-Public

QE Transportation Corridor

Utilities
x79 aby Area 3


--- page 380 ---
0.23

7

0.45
Miles

Planning Commission Preferred Scenario

| a | Study Areas
i} San Mateo City Limit
| a | Sphere of Influence

t___* Historic Districts

% Property Owner Requests

@) Privately Owned Public Open Space
1 Caltrain Station

—— Caltrain

"~~ 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain

|__| ¥2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain

V///, Housing Element - Adequate Sites

mii: Pipeline Projects
__ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
I) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
MN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
Office Low (1-3 stories)
NO Office Medium (4-7 stories)
ME Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
MO Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
|) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
MW Parks/ Open Space
Public Facilities
ME Quasi-Public

QE Transportation Corridor

Utilities
380 aby Area 4


--- page 381 ---
0.45

Miles

Planning Commission Preferred Scenario

| a | Study Areas
i} San Mateo City Limit
| a | Sphere of Influence

t___* Historic Districts

% Property Owner Requests

@) Privately Owned Public Open Space
1 Caltrain Station

—— Caltrain

"~~ 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain

|__| ¥2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain

V///, Housing Element - Adequate Sites

mii: Pipeline Projects
__ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
I) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
MN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
Office Low (1-3 stories)
NO Office Medium (4-7 stories)
HE Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
MO Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
|) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
MW Parks/ Open Space
INN) Public Facilities
ME Quasi-Public

QE Transportation Corridor

Utilities
3s1 aby Area 5



--- page 382 ---
®

0.1

0.2
Miles

Planning Commission Preferred Scenario

| a | Study Areas
i} San Mateo City Limit
Sphere of Influence
:___# Historic Districts
% Property Owner Requests
(@) Privately Owned Public Open Space
(1 Caltrain Station
—— Caltrain

"~~ 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain

|___1 ¥2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain

V///, Housing Element - Adequate Sites

mii: Pipeline Projects
__ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
I) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
__ Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
MN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
IN) Office Low (1-3 stories)
NO Office Medium (4-7 stories)
HE Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
MO Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
|) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
MW Parks/ Open Space
Public Facilities
ME Quasi-Public

QE Transportation Corridor

Utilities
382 aby Area 6



--- page 383 ---
0.23

0.45
Miles

Planning Commission Preferred Scenario

| a | Study Areas
i} San Mateo City Limit
| a | Sphere of Influence

t___* Historic Districts

% Property Owner Requests

@) Privately Owned Public Open Space
1 Caltrain Station

—— Caltrain

"~~ 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain

|__| ¥2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain

V///, Housing Element - Adequate Sites

mii: Pipeline Projects
__ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
I) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
MN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
Office Low (1-3 stories)
NO Office Medium (4-7 stories)
ME Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
MO Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
|) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
MW Parks/ Open Space
Public Facilities
ME Quasi-Public

QE Transportation Corridor

Utilities
383 ay Area 7



--- page 384 ---
0.4

Miles

Planning Commission Preferred Scenario

CJ study Areas

: | San Mateo City Limit

(=) sphere of Influence
% Property Owner Requests

@) Privately Owned Public Open Space
(1 Caltrain Station

—— Caltrain

“~~ _* 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain

|__| ¥2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain

V///., Housing Element - Adequate Sites

mii: Pipeline Projects
__ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
I) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
MN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
Office Low (1-3 stories)
NO Office Medium (4-7 stories)
ME Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
MO Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
|) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
MM Parks/ Open Space
INN) Public Facilities
ME Quasi-Public

QE Transportation Corridor

Utilities
38a abeeydy Area 8


--- page 385 ---
®

0.1

0.2
Miles

Planning Commission Preferred Scenario

CJ study Areas

% = Property Owner Requests
@) Privately Owned Public Open Space
1 Caltrain Station

—— Caltrain

on 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain

|__| ¥2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain

V///., Housing Element - Adequate Sites

sii: Pipeline Projects
Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)

I) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)

MM Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)

MN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)

HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)

!) Office Low (1-3 stories)

NO Office Medium (4-7 stories)

ME Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)

MO Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)

' Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)

MM Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)

MW Parks/ Open Space

Public Facilities

ME Quasi-Public

QE Transportation Corridor

Utilities
385 aby Area 9



--- page 386 ---
0.3

Miles

Planning Commission Preferred Scenario

| a | Study Areas
i} San Mateo City Limit
| a | Sphere of Influence

t___* Historic Districts

% Property Owner Requests

@) Privately Owned Public Open Space
1 Caltrain Station

—— Caltrain

"~~ 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain

|__| ¥2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain

V///, Housing Element - Adequate Sites

mii: Pipeline Projects
__ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
I) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
WM Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
MN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HE Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
Office Low (1-3 stories)
Office Medium (4-7 stories)
ME Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
MO Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
|) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
MM Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
MW Parks/ Open Space
Public Facilities
ME Quasi-Public

QE Transportation Corridor

Utilities
3s0deesy Area 10


--- page 387 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  17
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 22-5966
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
April 18, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Fiscal Year 2022-23 Comprehensive Fee Schedule – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the revisions to the proposed fiscal year 2022-23 Comprehensive Fee Schedule.
BACKGROUND:
Section 3.64.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code requires the City Manager to submit the City’s fee schedule to the City 
Council for approval prior to submittal of the annual budget. It is the City's policy and practice to increase fees annually by 
Consumer Price Index, or CPI, for the San Francisco Bay Area. The proposed increases reflect the City's increase in 
materials and maintenance costs incurred in providing services. The City uses the CPI from the previous October, which is 
the most recent data available at the beginning of the review process (CPI for 2022-23 is 3.80% from November 2020 to 
October 2021). Certain fees are adjusted using other formulas including the Construction Cost Index (CCI) which was 9.8% 
this year. Other adjustments to fees are made periodically as deemed necessary to reflect actual staff costs, market 
alignments, or to comply with policy. The proposed fee adjustments are based on the annual CPI increase, a periodic 
adjustment, or are the result of detailed analyses of the cost for providing specific programs/activities. 
Recreation fees and park in-lieu fees were reviewed by the Parks and Recreation Commission at its March 2, 2022 meeting. 
Library fees were reviewed by the Library Board at its January 24, 2022 meeting. All fees will become effective July 1, 2022, 
except where otherwise noted. Sewer service charges are set separately by ordinance and are not part of this fee revision 
process. Tables summarizing the new fees and various fee changes including those in excess of CPI are provided in 
Attachment 4.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The changes to fees, including new fees, for fiscal year 2022-23 are estimated to increase revenues by $4.2 million. These 
revenues will be reflected in the 2022-23 budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Comprehensive Fee Schedule update for fiscal year 2022-23 is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a 
government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially 
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met. In accordance with Government Code sections 66018 and 6062a, notice of 
the fee increases was published twice, beginning 10 days in advance of the public hearing. Prior to the meeting, City staff 
made the data available for the public, indicating the amount of cost, or estimated cost, required to provide the service for 
which the fee or service charge is levied, and the receiving fund of the fee revenue.
387 of 509

--- page 388 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Proposed Comprehensive Fee Schedule FY 2022-23
Att 3 - Proposed Comprehensive Fee Schedule FY 2022-23 (track changes)
Att 4 - Tables Summarizing Changes
STAFF CONTACT
Karley Toffey, Senior Management Analyst
ktoffey@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7106
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
388 of 509

--- page 389 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ___ (2022)
ESTABLISHING A COMPREHENSIVE FEE SCHEDULE FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022-2023
WHEREAS, the City reviews its Comprehensive Fee Schedule on an annual basis; and
WHEREAS, it is the City’s policy and practice to establish service fees sufficient to recover its costs, 
including inflation, based on increases to the Consumer Price Index, and to eliminate or reduce fees that are 
obsolete, no longer applicable to services provided, or succeeded by state or county agencies; and 
WHEREAS, the increase to the Consumer Price Index from November 2020 to October 2021 is 3.80% and 
will be reflected in the fiscal year 2022-2023 budget; and
WHEREAS, fee increases in excess of the 3.80% CPI factor are appropriate, when based on increases in 
the City’s actual costs or market analyses, as follows:

Transportation Improvement Fees

Below Market Rate Housing

Commercial Linkage Fees

Police Outside Detail Rates

Encroachment Permits

Site Development Permits

Final Map-Plan Check/Processing

Repair to City Property

Environmental Compliance Fees

Miscellaneous Public Works Fees

Curb Painting

Some Facility Rental Fees
WHEREAS, in accordance with Government Code section 66016, the Council held a public hearing to 
consider these fee increases on April 18, 2022; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with Government Code section 66019, at least ten days prior to the public 
hearing, the City made data available to the public supporting the need for fee increases.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that:
1.
The approval of a Comprehensive Fee Schedule is not a project subject to CEQA because it is a 
government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which 
may result in a potentially significant impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(4).)
2.
The fees included in the Comprehensive Fee Schedule are approved.
389 of 509

--- page 390 ---
3.
All fees shall become effective July 1, 2022, except where otherwise noted.
390 of 509

--- page 391 ---
Proposed 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule
July 1, 2022 - June 30, 2023
391 of 509

--- page 392 ---
Finance…………………………………………...………………………...……....….5.1
Information Technology………………………………………………………….....…6.1
Effective July 1, 2020, customers using credit/debit cards to pay for services will be charged a service fee payable to 
the City's merchant service provider at the rate of 2.6%+ in addition to the cost of services. The credit card service fee 
will be reflected as a separate transaction on your credit card statement. As an alternative, checks and money orders 
are acceptable by mail or cash, check, e-check and money orders in person at City facilities.
Public Works…………………………………………………………………............10.1
Penalties & Interest……………………………………………………………...…....11.1
Impact, In-lieu, and Linkage Fees…………………………………………....…...…..12.1
CITY OF SAN MATEO
COMPREHENSIVE FEE SCHEDULE
Table of Contents
Parks & Recreation…………………………………………………………….........…8.1
Police……………………………………………………………………….…….....…9.1
Library……………………………………………………………………………........7.1
City Clerk's………………………………………………………………………….....1.1
Community Development
Building…………………...…………..……..…...………………..…....2.1
Code Enforcement………………………………………...………….....3.1
Planning………………...…………..………..…...……………...….…..4.1
392 of 509

--- page 393 ---
UNIT
FEE
I. ELECTION DOCUMENT COPIES
Per Page
$0.10
II. PHOTOCOPIES
Per Page
$0.15
III. OUTSIDE SERVICES
Reproductions not performed by City (maps, photos, etc.).
Per Reproduction
Actual Costs
IV. CERTIFICATIONS
Each
$1.50
V. APPEALS to the City Council of a decision by the Planning 
Commission, Community Relations Commission, or Public 
Works Commission.
Each Appeal
$519.00
VI. INITIATIVE FILING FEE
Each
$200.00
CITY CLERK
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 1.1
393 of 509

--- page 394 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
I.
A.
% of Building Permit Fee
70%
B.
% of Building Permit Fee
75%
C.
% of Building Permit Fee
65%
II.
A.
Valuation
$272.59 
Valuation
$272.59 
(for 1st $500) $12.84 for each add'l $100 or fraction 
thereof
Valuation
$472.51 
(for 1st $2,000) $22.33 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,005.64 
(for 1st $25,000) $28.48 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,744.70 
(for 1st $50,000) $21.94 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$2,883.62 
(for 1st $100,000) $14.16 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$5,088.77 
(for 1st $250,000) $7.75 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$7,100.03 
(for 1st $500,000) $6.96 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$10,710.67 
(for 1st $1,000,000) $3.48 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
BUILDING PLAN REVIEW FEES
$1.00 - $500.00
$2,001.00 - $25,000.00
$50,001.00 - $100,000.00
$100,001.00 - $250,000.00
BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES
$25,001.00 - $50,000.00
SINGLE FAMILY/DUPLEX RESIDENTIAL PLAN 
REVIEW
COMMERCIAL BUILDING PLAN REVIEW
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING PLAN 
REVIEW
SINGLE FAMILY/DUPLEX RESIDENTIAL 
PERMIT AND INSPECTION
$501.00 - $2,000.00
$500,001 to $1,000,000
$250,001.00 - $500,000
$1,000,001 and Over
Page 2.1
394 of 509

--- page 395 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
II.
B.
Valuation
$272.59 
Valuation
$272.59 
(for 1st $500) $12.84 for each add'l $100 or fraction 
thereof
Valuation
$472.51 
(for 1st $2,000) $30.96 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,211.58 
(for 1st $25,000) $25.68 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,877.98 
(for 1st $50,000) $29.65 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$3,416.74 
(for 1st $100,000) $8.87 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$7,100.03 
(for 1st $500,000)  $10.55 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$12,576.58 
(for 1st $1,00,000)  $1.64 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$19,385.93 
(for 1st $5,000,000) $2.60 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$32,859.28 
(for 1st $10,000,000) $1.39 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$54,474.77 
(for 1st $25,000,000) $1.04 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$81,421.47 
(for 1st $50,000,000) $1.04 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$108,368.17 
(for 1st $75,000,000) $0.52 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
$10,000,000.01 - $25,000,000.00
$25,000,000.01 - $50,000,000.00
$50,000,000.01 - $75,000,000.00
$75,000,000.01 and Over
$50,000.01 - $100,000.00
$100,000.01 - $500,000.00
$500,000.01 - $1,000,000.00
$1,000,000.01 - $5,000,000.00
$5,000,000.01 - $10,000,000.00
COMMERCIAL BUILDING PERMIT AND 
INSPECTION
$501.00 - $2,000.00
$2,001.00 - $25,000.00
$1.00 - $500.00
$25,000.01 - $50,000.00
BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES 
(continued)
Page 2.2
395 of 509

--- page 396 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
II.
C.
Valuation
$272.59 
Valuation
$272.59 
(for 1st $500) $12.84 for each add'l $100 or fraction 
thereof
Valuation
$472.51 
(for 1st $2,000) $30.96 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,211.58 
(for 1st $25,000) $25.68 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,877.98 
(for 1st $50,000) $29.65 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$3,416.74 
(for 1st $100,000) $8.87 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$7,100.03 
(for 1st $500,000)  $10.55 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$12,576.58 
(for 1st $1,00,000)  $3.57 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$27,382.73 
(for 1st $5,000,000) $5.16 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$54,184.08 
(for 1st $10,000,000) $1.73 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$81,130.78 
(for 1st $25,000,000) $1.55 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$121,405.48 
(for 1st $50,000,000) $1.04 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$148,352.17 
(for 1st $75,000,000) $0.52 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
NOTE: Valuation shall be determined based upon the International Code Council's most recently published Building Valuation Table with a regional cost 
modifier of 2.93. The project valuation will be inclusive of all trades - Building, Electrical, Mechanical, and Plumbing. The Building Official may adjust 
the plan checking/permit fee for an individual project when costs to the City are not congruent with this fee schedule.
BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES 
(continued)
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 
PERMT AND INSPECTION
$1.00 - $500.00
$501.00 - $2,000.00
$2,001.00 - $25,000.00
$25,000.01 - $50,000.00
$50,000.01 - $100,000.00
$100,000.01 - $500,000.00
$500,000.01 - $1,000,000.00
$1,000,000.01 - $5,000,000.00
$5,000,000.01 - $10,000,000.00
$10,000,000.01 - $25,000,000.00
$25,000,000.01 - $50,000,000.00
$50,000,000.01 - $75,000,000.00
$75,000,000.01 and Over
Page 2.3
396 of 509

--- page 397 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
III.
A.
1.
Commercial and Multi-Residential
0 -10,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
10,001-35,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
35,001-75,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
75,001-120,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
Over 120,000 Square Feet
Per Hour
*See Note Below
2.
Single Family and Duplex Plan Review
0-10,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
B.
Fee
0.34% of Valuation
C.
Hourly Rate
Please refer to Building, Fire and Planning Hourly 
Rate
D.
Fee / Actual Cost
 Actual Cost for all City Departments for additional 
identical and mirror image plan checks where 
applicable codes have not changed. 
E.
a. Park and Recreation Tax on Residential 
Building Permits
 Per $100 Valuation on 
Building Permit App. 
$0.31
a. Consultants for specialized plan checking and
inspection services or to expedite plan checking 
and inspection services
Fee is per Consultant's rate
b. Reimburse cost of staff or consultant time spent
in plan check or inspection services.  Park Plan
Check and Inspection Services on Building 
Permits. Fee to be collected at time of Building 
Permit application. After payment of fees,
Permittee may apply for an exemption for projects 
having no Park Plan Check or Inspection
Requirements.
Building Valuation on Those 
Building Permits Whose 
Valuation is Over $5,000
0.05%
F.
Construction Valuation of 
All Projects
0.59% of valuation
G.
Fee
 13 mills/$1,000 valuation
Residential (Minimum $0.50)
28 mills/$1,000 valuation
Non-Residential. (Minimum $0.50) 
H.
Fee
 $1/$25,000 valuation 
I.
Percentage
0.15% of valuation
J.
All Required Permits
 Minimum of 100% of all building permit fees 
GENERAL PLAN MAINTENANCE FEE
STATE TAX
Strong motion instrumentation and seismic hazard 
mapping (Fee set by State of California).
BUILDING STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION 
SPECIAL REVOLVING FUND
TECHNOLOGY FEE
CONSTRUCTION WITHOUT A PERMIT
Penalty incurred when any construction is performed 
without a permit.
ADDITIONAL REQUIRED PLAN REVIEW & 
BUILDING PERMIT FEES
FIRE PLAN CHECK
*These fees are collected on behalf of the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department. The current fee charged may be higher than those listed. Please see 
the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department's fee schedule for current fees that will be collected by the City of San Mateo on behalf of San Mateo 
Consolidated Fire Department at: smcfire.org/i-want-to
PLANNING SUPPORT FEE (PLAN 
CHECK/INSPECTION)
(Fee covers initial review and 2 resubmittals)  The fee 
will be charged for all projects which require a 
planning application, for new single-family homes and 
duplexes, and for any other permit application that 
requires review by the Planning  Division.
ADDITIONAL PLAN REVIEW FEES FOR 
PROJECTS REVIEWED 4TH REVIEW AND 
BEYOND
PLAN CHECK FEES FOR IDENTICAL AND 
MIRROR IMAGE PLANS
PARKS AND RECREATION FEES
1. Park and Landscape Resources
2. Development Project Review Fee
Page 2.4
397 of 509

--- page 398 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
IV.
A.
Per Hr (Min. 2 Hours)
$266.77 
B.
Per Hr (Min. 1 Hour)
$266.77 
C.
Per Hr
(Min. 1/2 Hour)
$278.18 
D.
Per Reactivation
$166.08 
E.
Per Hour
$230.44 
F.
Each
$608.27 
G.
Each
$856.35 
H.
$205.52 
I.
1. Single Family Dwellings/Duplex's
Each
$508.62 
2. Multi-Family, Mixed Use/Commercial
0-5,000 Sq Ft
Each
$508.62 
Over 5,000 Sq Ft
Each
$908.25 
J.
1. Bathroom or Kitchen Remodels - Per Remodel
Each Combination Permit
$678.85 
K.
Each
$405.86 
L.
Each
$606.19 
M.
Each
$611.38 
N.
Each
$478.52 
O.
Each
$2,671.29 
Each
$1,916.15 
P.
Each
$1,371.72 
CALIFORNIA'S EARTHQUAKE BRACE AND 
BOLT RETROFIT PROGRAM
ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS FOR SFR AND 
DUPLEX
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
Remodel
New Construction
REACTIVIATION FEE FOR EXPIRED PERMITS 
(Use 50% of original permit fee if permit fee is less 
than the reactivation fee)
APPLICATION FOR DEMOLITION OF 
RESIDENTIAL UNITS WHICH HAVE BEEN 
DECLARED A PUBLIC NUISANCE OR WHICH 
ARE BEING DEMOLISHED ON APPROVAL OF 
THE BUILDING OFFICIAL UNDER SECTION 
23.06.100.
APPLICATION FOR ALTERNATE MATERIALS 
AND CODE INTERPRETATIONS
PERMITS FOR SMALL ANIMAL & FOWL
RE-ROOF'S
COMBINATION BUILDING, PLUMBING, 
ELECTRICAL, AND MECHANICAL PERMITS 
FOR MINOR RESIDENTIAL REMODELS:
HARDSHIP WAIVER FOR DISABLED ACCESS 
REQUIREMENTS
WINDOW REPLACEMENTS FOR SINGLE 
FAMILY AND DUPLEX (same location, same size, 5 
maximum)
WINDOW REPLACEMENTS FOR SINGLE 
FAMILY AND DUPLEX (same location, same size, 
more than 5)
MISC. INSPECTIONS AND FEES
Applicable to building, plumbing, electrical and mechanical 
permits.
INSPECTIONS OUTSIDE OF NORMAL BUINESS 
HOURS 
REINSPECTION FEE
PLAN REVIEW REQUIRED BY CHANGES, 
ADDITIONS OR REVISIONS TO APPROVED 
PLANS, OR MORE THAN TWO RECHECKS
Page 2.5
398 of 509

--- page 399 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
IV.
Q.
1. Single Family Dwellings
Each Combination Permit
$450.00 
2. Multi-family Buildings
Up to 15 kW 
Each
$450.00 
16 kW and up
Each
$450.00 
+ $15.00 for each additional kW
3. Commercial Buildings
Up to 50 kW
Each
$1,000.00 
51 kW to 250 kW
Each
$1,000.00 
+ $7.00 for each additional kW up to 250 kW
251 kW and up
Each
$2,400.00 
+ $5.00 for each additional kW over 250 kW
R.
1. Single Family Dwellings
Each Combination Permit
$450.00 
2. Multi-family Buildings
Up to 15 kW 
Each
$450.00 
16 kW and up
Each
$450.00 
+ $15.00 for each additional kW
3. Commercial Buildings
Up to 30 kWth
Each
$1,000.00 
31 kWth to 260 kWth
Each
$1,000.00 
+ $7.00 for each additional kWth up to 260 kWth
261 kWth and up
Each
$2,610.00 
+ $5.00 for each additional kWth over 260 kWth
S.
1. Single Family Dwellings & Duplexes
Each
$201.37 
2. Multi-Family/Commercial (Level I/II)
1-6 Stations
Each
$566.75 
7+ Stations
Each
$1,066.03 
Multi-Family/Commercial (Level III)
1-6 Stations
Each
$925.90 
7+ Stations
Each
$1,381.58 
T.
Each
$454.64 
V.
ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES
A.
RESIDENTIAL ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$272.99 
B.
COMMERCIAL ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$1,175.02 
C.
Sq Ft.
$0.23 
D.
Each
$871.92 
TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS: 
ELECTRICAL WORK ONLY
ELECTRICAL REWIRING FOR SFR AND 
DUPLEX
MISC. INSPECTIONS AND FEES (continued)
Applicable to building, plumbing, electrical and 
mechanical permits.
ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (Fee set by 
State of California AB-1414; sunsets 1/1/2025)
SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEMS (Fee set by State of 
California AB-1414; sunsets 1/1/2025)
ELECTRICAL VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS
Page 2.6
399 of 509

--- page 400 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
VI. MECHANICAL PERMIT FEES
A.
RESIDENTIAL MECHANICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$272.99 
B.
COMMERCIAL MECHANICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$908.25 
C.
Sq Ft.
$0.23 
D.
Each
$375.76 
E.
Each
$781.61 
VII. PLUMBING PERMIT FEES
A.
RESIDENTIAL PLUMBING PERMIT FEE
Each 
$272.99 
B.
COMMERCIAL PLUMBING PERMIT FEE
Each 
$908.25 
C.
Sq Ft.
$0.23 
D.
TANKLESS WATER HEATER
Each 
$478.52 
E.
 Each 
$871.92 
VIII. SIGN PERMIT FEES**
Permit fee determined by Commercial Valuation 
Table
Each 
$205.52 
IX. CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE
Per Sq. Ft. 
A.
Per Dwelling Unit
$4,412.54
Per Dwelling Unit
$3,182.51
B.
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.37
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.63
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.21
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.13
X.
A.
Per Sq. Ft. 
$12.46 
B.
Per Sq. Ft. 
$6.23 
C.
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$31.14 
XI.
 Each 
1.19% of valuation
RETAIL, RESTAURANTS, AND SERVICES
OFFICE, RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT USES, 
AND MEDICAL OFFICES
ART IN PUBLIC PLACE FEE
The fee is applicable to commercial and multi-family 
residential projects exceeding three (3) million dollars in 
building permit valuation.
2. Multi-family
3. Industrial
4. Hotel
COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEE
(City Council adopted September 16, 2016 - effective 
November 16, 2016)
New commercial construction in excess of 5,000 
Exempts public uses such as hospitals, nonprofit and 
government facilities, churches, schools and child care 
centers. Developers who enter written agreements to pay 
area standard wages to all construction workers on the 
project are entitled to a 25% reduction of the fee. 
Additionally, developers may provide construction of 
affordable housing units in lieu of the fee payment.
HVAC INSTALLATIONS (REPLACEMENT AT 
SAME LOCATION FOR SFR AND DUPLEX)
REPIPE FOR WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS FOR 
SFR AND DUPLEX
Residential
1. Single-family
2. Office
1. Retail
Commercial
HVAC INSTALLATIONS (RELOCATIONS AND 
NEW INSTALLATIONS FOR SFR AND DUPLEX)
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS: 
PLUMBING WORK ONLY
All permanent signs
Temporary Banner (30-day)
**PENALTY: When a sign permit is required and a sign is installed prior to obtaining a permit, a double fee shall be charged.
HOTELS
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS: 
MECHANICAL WORK ONLY
Page 2.7
400 of 509

--- page 401 ---
UNIT
I.
1.
First Citation
$100.00
If not Abated, Second Citation
$200.00
If not Abated, Third Citation
$500.00
II.
First Citation
$200.00
If not Abated, Second Citation
$300.00
If not Abated, Third Citation
$500.00
III.
Each Case
Actual Cost *
IV.
Each Appeal
$519.00
V.
Each Inspection
$100.00
ABATEMENT ORDER VIOLATION CORRECTION RE-INSPECTION 
FEE
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
CODE ENFORCEMENT
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
 FEE 
NUISANCE ABATEMENT FEES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE SMMC 
WHICH ARE SUBJECT TO ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION PER 
SMMC 1.10.
Violations of the SMMC Administrative Citation Ordinance which have 
been abated within 10 days of service and verified by the Code 
Enforcement Division have a reduced fee.
NUISANCE ABATEMENT FEES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE SAME 
SMMC SECTION WITHIN 12 MONTHS OF INITIAL CITATION
VIOLATIONS OF THE SMMC REQUIRING 1) ORDER OF 
ABATEMENT, 2) AN INSPECTION OF SEIZURE WARRANT, 3) A 
POSTING OF AN ORDER DESIGNATING THE PROPERTY AS 
UNSAGE TO OCCUPY, 4) THE COMMENCEMENT OF THE CIVIL 
LITIGATION PROCEEDINGS OR 5) SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF 
*Actual Cost includes all costs of abatement, including, but not limited to: code 
enforcement staff, and associated indirect costs, such as labor, equipment, private 
contractor, materials, materials storage, and all other costs reasonable and 
necessary to abate the nuisance.
APPEAL OF A DECISION OR ORDER TO ABATE
Page 3.1
401 of 509

--- page 402 ---
CHARGE TYPE
FEE OR INITIAL DEPOSIT
I.
PLANNING APPLICATIONS
A. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
DECISION (SINGLE FAMILY ONLY OR CERTIFICATE OF 
PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY - ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES)
Initial Deposit
$4,000.00
B. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
DECISION (OTHER THAN SINGLE FAMILY OR PCNs)
Initial Deposit
$6,000.00
C. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- PLANNING COMMISSION
DECISION - IF NO PRE-APPLICATION REQUIRED
Initial Deposit
$10,000.00
D. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- PLANNING COMMISSION
DECISION - IF PRE-APPLICATION REQUIRED
Initial Deposit
$50,000.00
E. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- PLANNING COMMISSION &
CITY COUNCIL DECISION
Initial Deposit
$100,000.00
F.
FENCE EXCEPTION SPAR PLANNING APPLICATION
Initial Deposit
$2,000.00
G. SPECIAL USE PERMIT - DAY CARE FACILITIES
Flat fee
$2,000.00
H. ANNUAL REVIEW OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
Initial Deposit
$4,500.00
I.
DESIGN REVIEW BY CONSULTING ARCHITECT (required for
projects with 6+ units, 10,000+ SF non-residential; or other projects
as determined by City Resolution)
Initial Deposit
$5,000.00
J.
LARGE PROJECT PRE-APPLICATION
Initial Deposit
$25,000.00
K. INFORMATIONAL NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING (PRE-
APPLICATION) PUBLIC NOTICE LIST PREPARATION
Flat Fee
$479.00
L. MODIFICATIONS OF APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATIONS-
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR DECISION
Initial Deposit
$3,000.00
M. MODIFICATIONS OF APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATIONS-
PLANNING COMMISSION DECISION
Initial Deposit
$10,000.00
II.
ENVIRONMENTAL CLEARANCE (CEQA) PROCESSING
A. CATEGORICAL OR STATUTORY EXEMPTION (Excluding
Single Family and PCNs)
Initial Deposit
$500.00
B. INITIAL STUDY/NEGATIVE DECLARATION
Initial Deposit
$5,000.00
C. INITIAL STUDY/EIR
Initial Deposit
$10,000.00
D. MANDATED FEDERAL, STATE OR COUNTY FEES (e.g., Fish
& Game CEQA Fee; Fish & Game Code §711.4; Negative
Declaration; EIR)
As Mandated by State
N/A
III. CITY STAFF TIME
Planning Staff
Hourly Rate
$275.00
All City departments reviewing a planning application.
Hourly Rate
Actual Cost
IV. MONITORING OF REQUIRED MITIGATION MEASURE
Initial Deposit for 
Determined for each project.
V.
INVESTIGATION
FEE for properties with code violations before or after planning 
approval.
Hourly Rate
$275.00
VI. RESEARCH FEE
A. RETRIEVAL OF OFF-SITE PLANNING APPLICATION
Flat Fee
$170.00
B. RESEARCH REQUIRING EXTENSIVE STAFF TIME
Hourly Rate
$275.00
C. POST PLANNING APPLICATION PROJECT CONSULTATION
Hourly Rate
$275.00
VII. APPEALS
A. APPEAL FEE - ALL PLANNING APPLICATIONS
Flat Fee
$519.00
VIII. LANDSCAPE UNIT IN-LIEU FEES
Per Landscape Unit
$336.86
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PLANNING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 4.1
402 of 509

--- page 403 ---
CHARGE TYPE
FEE OR INITIAL DEPOSIT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PLANNING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
IX. SUBORDINATION PROCESSING FEE
Applies to requests to allow City Housing Program loans to 
subordinate to new mortgage lenders in conjunction with refinances.
Per Loan
$250.00
X.
A. In Lieu Fees for Fractional Units
1. Rental
0.1 Housing Unit
$30,788.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$61,577.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$92,365.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$123,153.00
2. Owner
0.1 Housing Unit
$27,354.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$54,708.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$82,062.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$109,416.00
B. In Lieu Fee for Projects Less than 11 Units
1. Rental
5 Unit Project
$153,942.00
6 Unit Project
$184,730.00
7 Unit Project
$215,519.00
8 Unit Project
$246,307.00
9 Unit Project
$277,095.00
10 Unit Project
$307,884.00
2. Owner
5 Unit Project
$136,770.00
6 Unit Project
$164,124.00
7 Unit Project
$191,478.00
8 Unit Project
$218,832.00
9 Unit Project
$246,186.00
10 Unit Project
$273,540.00
XI. POLICIES RE: PLANNING FEES
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
H.
The cost for staff time expended by all city staff pursuant to a planning application shall be billed to the project account at the 
hourly rate in section III.
Under extenuating circumstances, the Community Development Director has the authority to set a deposit amount below the 
amount indicated in the fee schedule.
"Planning applications" include: site plan and architectural review; special use permit; temporary use permit; variance; site 
development permit; subdivision and parcel maps; reclassification; planned development; general plan amendment; specific plan 
amendment; code amendments regarding land use regulation; development agreements, downtown economic development permit;  
planned signing districts and freestanding signs over 8 feet in commercial districts, single family dwelling design review (SFDDR), 
mills act contract, historic building survey amendment,  historic building demolition permit and other planning applications as set 
forth in Chapter 27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
BELOW MARKET RATE HOUSING FEE
A fee in lieu of constructing affordable housing units onsite per Below 
Market Rate program:
If the cost of the staff time spent on the application(s) is less than the amount of the deposit, the balance shall be refunded to the 
applicant.
If at any time before action is taken on an application, more than 70% of the deposit has been expended on the application, the 
applicant shall be required to pay an additional deposit.
No public hearing on a planning application shall be held unless all deposits requested have been fully paid. No application by an 
applicant shall be accepted as complete pursuant to title 27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code if that applicant has failed to pay 
amounts due and payable for another planning application.
The applicant is responsible for paying the costs of staff and consultant time incurred pursuant to any appeal.
The applicant shall pay the actual cost of any consultant services required to process a planning application including the 
environmental (CEQA) clearance processing.
Page 4.2
403 of 509

--- page 404 ---
UNIT
FEE
I. BUSINESS LICENSE LISTING
Each Qtr.
$32.00
II. RETURNED CHECK PROCESSING CHARGE
(Non-sufficient fund checks and other issues)
Each
$25.00
III. STATE MANDATED DISABILITY ACCESS FEE (SB 1186)
On each Business Tax application and renewal
Each
$4.00
IV. NEW BUSINESS - FIRE INSPECTION
Each
See Note Below* 
V. COLLECTION REFERRAL CHARGE
Each
$25.00
FINANCE
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
*This fee is collected on behalf of the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department. Please see the San Mateo Consolidated Fire
Department's fee schedule for current fees that will be collected by the City of San Mateo on behalf of San Mateo Consolidated
Fire Department at: smcfire.org/i-want-to
Page 5.1
404 of 509

--- page 405 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
A. GIS SERVICES
Hour
$91.00
Additional Time (Hourly)
$91.00
B. HARDCOPY PLOTS OF CITY MAPS
Each
$16.75
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
GIS MAPPING / ELECTRONIC DATA FEES
Page 6.1
405 of 509

--- page 406 ---
UNIT
FEE
I. FINES
A. OVERDUE MATERIAL
1. Adult  Materials
Per Day & Per Item
$0.25
2. Juvenile Materials
Per Day & Per Item
$0.15
**No overdue fines for borrowers ages 19 & under
3. Technology Lending Devices
Per Day & Per Item
$1.00
a. Cleaning Fee for Devices
Per Item
$10.00
B. OVERDUE MAXIMUM FINE
1. Adult
Per Item
$8.00
2. Juvenile
Per Item
$4.00
C. LINK + SERVICE
1. Overdue materials
Per Day & Per Item
$1.00
2. Overdue maximum fine
Per Item
$15.00
3. Replacement charges
Per Item
$115.00
II. FEES
A.
Per Item
Price of material
+ processing fee of $5.00
B. COPY CHARGES
1. Photocopy machine
a. Black/white copies
Per Copy
$0.15
2. Computer printer copy
a. Black/white copies
Per Page After 3 Pages
$0.15
b. Microform reader-printer
Per Copy
$0.15
c. Color computer printer copy
Per Copy
$0.30
C. COMMUNITY MEETING ROOMS, MAIN LIBRARY
1. Oak Room and courtyard
a. Non profit/not for profit (business hours)
$195.00 for 1st 4 hours
+ $30 each additional hour
b. Non profit/not for profit (after hours)
Per Hour
$160.00
c. Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$130.00
Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$195.00
d. Non-Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$195.00
Non-Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$255.00
e. San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$195.00
San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$290.00
f. Non San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$290.00
Non San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$385.00
g. Music recitals
Per Use (Up to 3 Hours)
$145.00
h. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
$350.00
2. Laurel and Cedar Rooms
a. Non profit/not for profit (business hours)
$105.00 for 1st 4 hours
+ $20 each additional hour
b. Non profit/not for profit (after hours)
Per Hour
$95.00
c. Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$95.00
Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$195.00
d. Non-Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$130.00
Non-Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$225.00
e. San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$195.00
San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$290.00
f. Non San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$290.00
Non San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$385.00
g. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
$255.00
REPLACEMENT CHARGE FOR EACH ITEM LOST OR 
DAMAGED
LIBRARY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 7.1
406 of 509

--- page 407 ---
UNIT
FEE
LIBRARY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
II. FEES (continued)
3. Library computer training room
a. Non profit/not for profit Use of: 
1 -10 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$150.00 per every 4 hrs
11 - 20 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$190.00 per every 4 hrs
21 – 26 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$245.00 per every 4 hrs
b. Resident or Non-Resident Use of: 
1 -10 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$200.00 per every 4 hrs
11 - 20 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$265.00 per every 4 hrs
21 – 26 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$335.00 per every 4 hrs
c. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
$500.00
d. A/V Technician Use of:
1 - 10 computers
Per Use
$40.00
11 - 20 computers
Per Use
$75.00
21 – 26 computers
Per Use
$115.00
4. Library – Other Areas
a. Other Library areas – fees to be determined on a case-by-case 
basis by City Librarian or designee
Per Hour/Per Area
Up to $385.00
b. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
Up to $500.00
5. Miscellaneous Meeting Room Fees
a. A/V Technician
Per Use
$40.00
A/V Technician – special projects
Per Hour
$60.00
b. Portable Stage rental: 
Single stage (8’x6’x16”)
Per Use
$160.00
Double stage (16’x6’x16”)
Per Use
$225.00
c. Conference Phone rental
Per Use
$40.00
d. Piano tuning (special request)
Each
$200.00
D. COMPUTER FILES STORAGE DEVICES
1. USB flash drive
Each
$15.00
E. MATERIAL RECOVERY FEE
Per Account
$10.00
F. LIBRARY LOGO REUSABLE BAGS
Each
$2.50
G. PASSPORT PROCESSING SERVICES
1. Adult Passport Book & Card
Each
$195.00
2. Adult Passport Book
Each
$165.00
3. Adult Passport Card
Each
$65.00
4. Minor Passport Book & Card
Each
$150.00
5. Minor Passport Book
Each
$135.00
6. Minor Passport Card
Each
$50.00
7. Expedite Fee Per Passport
Each
$60.00
8. Express Service to Processing Center
a. USPS Express Mail (up to 8 oz.)
Per Mailing Unit
Current postal rate
H.
1. One-time use fee per digital file for any medium
a. Personal/non profit use
Each
$20.00
b. For profit/commercial use
Each
$40.00
III. RESEARCH SERVICE
A. OBITUARY SEARCH SERVICE
Each
$20.00
Search for Non-San
Mateo County residents
USE FEES FOR PHOTOGRAPHS FROM DIGITAL ARCHIVES 
Page 7.2
407 of 509

--- page 408 ---









PARKS AND RECREATION
RECREATION COST RECOVERY AND PRICING POLICY*
The following shall serve as the policy guidance for establishing a Recreation Activities Cost Recovery Plan, developing annual activity budgets, and 
establishing fees to be charged for recreation activities. The specific elements of this policy are that:
The Park and Recreation Cost Recovery and Pricing Model shall be used.
In recognition of the wide variety of service values and revenue generating potentials of various activities, specific cost recovery thresholds shall be 
established for each recreation activity area at the most specific programming level that is administratively practical.
The thresholds shall include both minimum and target levels of cost recovery.
Strategies for achieving the minimum and target thresholds shall be established by staff for each activity area. These strategies may include immediate or 
gradual action depending upon the best interests of maintaining a strong program, achieving the target within a reasonable time period and current fiscal 
conditions.
Activity areas unable to meet their minimum threshold after these strategies have been applied shall be reviewed by the Park and Recreation Commission 
for consideration of recommending appropriate action: reduce costs; reduce cost recovery target; eliminate activity.
Activities that have achieved or exceeded their target threshold shall be evaluated to determine if the target can/should be increased.
 The Cost Recovery Plan shall, where appropriate, also include specific other fee considerations (e.g. benchmarking to a specific competitor) that may 
supersede cost recovery target considerations.
Once a Cost Recovery Plan is established, and within that context, staff shall have the authority to set and adjust fees, except that no fee increase shall 
exceed 20% within a 1-year period without the review of the Park and Recreation Commission and approval of the City Council.
As part of the budgetary process, the Park and Recreation Commission shall review the Cost Recovery Plan and the performance of each activity compared 
to the plan and make any recommendations for changes to the plan.
Page 8.1
408 of 509

--- page 409 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
Program Direct Overhead (DOH): Direct supervision of the program, and minor miscellaneous items such as supervisor mileage.
Facility Overhead (FOH): The combination of facility direct costs (the day-to-day costs to keep the building open- receptionist, custodial 
services, custodial products, utilities) and facility direct overhead (primarily facility supervision).
Operating Indirect Overhead (Op IOH): Division level and shared costs, such as departmental management, brochure, printing, 
photocopying, training, accounting support, technology, credit card discount costs, administrative office clerical support, computer, and 
recreation equipment sinking fund charges
Facility Indirect Overhead (Fac IOH): Calculated charges for the Public Works Building Maintenance for on-going maintenance and 
repairs (e.g. plumbing, electrical, mechanical, carpentry, painting).
Recreation Cost Tier Definitions
Direct: The specific “go-away” costs at the course or activity level. These include leaders, instructors and materials or services (e.g. 
transportation) specific to the course or activity.
Page 8.2
409 of 509

--- page 410 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
MINIMUM
Direct
Direct
75% Direct
Direct
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
MINIMUM
Direct
50% of Direct
100% Subsidy
Direct
Direct
Direct
Direct
Direct
Direct
TARGET
Direct +20%
Direct
100% Subsidy
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Direct
Direct
Through DOH
Benchmark fees to mid-point of Peninsula cities.
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
TARGET
Through FOH
Through DOH
Direct
Through DOH
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
Benchmark fees to bottom end of Peninsula cities
Benchmark fees to mid-point of Peninsula cities
Building Blocks
Summer Flex Camps
RECREATION PROGRAMS COST RECOVERY PLAN - TABLE OF TARGETS
Group 1- Highest service value consideration- composed of core youth programs. Typical thresholds ranges: Minimum- From 100% subsidy 
to direct cost recovery. Target- From 100% subsidy through Direct Overhead (DOH).
Recreation Swim
ACTIVITY
Swimming Lessons
King Center Teen Programs
King Center Drop-In
Senior Services Link
Group 2- Composed of core programs for youth and seniors, with service values as higher consideration. Typical thresholds ranges: 
ACTIVITY
Children's Services Center Based 
King Center Children's Programs
Youth Art
Youth Gymnastics
Teen Dances
Senior Center Programs
Senior Center Special Events
Children's Services Special 
Youth Dance/Dance Shows
Page 8.3
410 of 509

--- page 411 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
MINIMUM
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Direct + additional 
required office staffing
Through DOH
67% of food costs
MINIMUM
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
NOTE:
*
Through FOH
Through FOH
Direct
TARGET
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
Adult Fitness
Youth Fitness
Golf Lessons
Ice Skating
Youth Leisure Education
Adults Leisure Education
Full Cost Recovery
Through FOH
Through FOH
Group 4- Composed primarily of specialty activities, with cost recovery considerations of highest consideration among the 4 groups. Typical 
thresholds ranges: Minimum- Through Direct Overhead (DOH). Target- range of from through Facility Overhead (FOH) to full recovery.
ACTIVITY
Through Operating Indirect 
Benchmark fees to less than top of market.
Fees less than top of market.
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
TARGET
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Specialized Aquatics Programs
Adult Swimfit
Tennis
Adult Sports Leagues
Adult Arts and Crafts
Senior Lunch
Beresford Kids Club
Through FOH
Through FOH
RECREATION PROGRAMS COST RECOVERY PLAN - TABLE OF TARGETS (continued)
Group 3- Composed primarily of adult core, and youth additional typical programs, in which both service and cost recovery values are of 
strong consideration. Typical thresholds ranges: Minimum- Through Direct Overhead (DOH). Target- Through Facility Overhead (FOH)
ACTIVITY
Youth Music/Drama
Through FOH
Benchmark fees to San Mateo Foster City School District 
Through FOH
Martial Arts
Through Operating Indirect 
Overhead
Adult Music/Drama
Adult Dance
Youth Sports Camps
Miscellaneous Athletic Activities
Fees established through the Recreation Cost Recovery and Pricing Policy shall be collected at the time of course registration, with certain 
exceptions. Prior to completion of a course, patrons may withdraw from a course and receive a refund. Refunds may be returned immediately 
or left on account with the Recreation Division for two years. After two years, all credits left on account by patrons that have not participated 
in Division activities for two years or more are donated to the Recreation Fee Assistance Program.
Does not include special non-general fund revenues or expenses from grants, trust, etc.
Page 8.4
411 of 509

--- page 412 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
 UNIT 
FEES EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 12/31/22
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/23
I.
FACILITY RENTAL FEES
A.
Beresford
Shelter
Per Use
$200.00
$220.00
Area #1
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Area #2
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Area #3
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Bocce Court Tables
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Central
Entire Area 
Per Use
$425.00
$425.00
Area 1
Per Use
$180.00
$186.00
Area 2
Per Use
$85.00
$88.00
Area 3
Per Use
$85.00
$88.00
Area 4 
Per Use
$85.00
$88.00
Harborview Park
Per Use
$85.00
$88.00
Indian Springs Park
Per Use
$85.00
$88.00
Joinville
Entire facility
Per Use
$205.00
$210.00
Area 1
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Area 2
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Area 3
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
King
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Lakeshore 
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Laurelwood 
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Los Prados 
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Paddock Park
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Parkside Aquatic
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Ryder Park
Area 1
Per Use
$85.00
$88.00
Area 2
Per Use
$85.00
$88.00
Entire Facility 
Per Use
$200.00
$210.00
Shoreview
Per Use
$85.00
$88.00
Alcohol Fee 
Per Use
$50.00
$50.00
Jumper Fee
Per Use
$25.00
$25.00
Picnic Use/Cleanup Deposit 
Beresford Shelter
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
Central Park – entire area 
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
Bayside/Joinville – entire area 
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
Ryder – entire area
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
All other areas
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
B. SPECIAL PARK PERMITS 
Filming for commercial purposes
Hour
$50.00
$50.00
Japanese Garden or Rose Garden
Per Use
$205.00
$205.00
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
Per Hour
$100.00
$100.00
Per Hour
$125.00
$125.00
Per Booking
$30.00
$30.00
Per Use
$28.00
$28.00
Per Use
$150.00
$150.00
Central outdoor stage
Per Use
$50.00
$55.00
Special Event Fee (minimum two hours)
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
Special Event Alcohol Fee
Per Use
$260.00
$260.00
C.
Field Reservations
Priority 1
No fee
No fee
Priority 2
Youth Field Player Fee (Per season)
Per Player
$8.00
$8.00
Weekday and Half Day
Per Use
$8.00
$8.00
Weekend/Holiday Full Day 
Per Use
$15.00
$15.00
Tournament
Per Use/Field
$100.00
$100.00
Tournament Refundable Deposit
Per Use/Field
$260.00
$260.00
Priority 3-4
Youth Field Player Fee (Per season)
Per Player
$20.00
$20.00
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Casanova
Non Resident Extra Hours
ATHLETICS (Priority Levels defined on page 8.13)
Chair Set-up
Per occasion when using rec ctr.
Resident
PICNIC AREAS
Non-Resident
Resident Extra Hours
Non Profit Rate
Page 8.5
412 of 509

--- page 413 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
UNIT
FEES EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 6/30/22
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
7/1/22
I.
FACILITY RENTAL FEES (continued)
Priority 3-4
Weekday and Half Day
Per Use
$20.00
$30.00
Camp or Clinic Fee - Soccer (Grass)
Per Hour
New
$50.00
Camp or Clinic Fee - Soccer (Turf)
Per Hour
New
$60.00
Camp or Clinic Fee - Baseball/Softball (Grass)
Per Hour
New
$40.00
Camp or Clinic Fee - Baseball/Softball (Turf)
Per Hour
New
$50.00
Weekend/Holiday Full Day 
Per Use
$40.00
$50.00
UNIT
FEES EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 12/31/22
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/23
I.
FACILITY RENTAL FEES (continued)
Priority 3-4
Tournament
Per Use
$210.00
$210.00
Tournament Refundable Deposit
Per Use/Field
$260.00
$260.00
Priority 5
Resident Adult Field Reservation (Per season)
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
Priority 6
NR Adult Reservation Field
Per Hour
$32.00
$33.00
Non-Athletic based NP Field Reservation
Per Hour
$15.00
$15.00
Private Tournament
Per Use/Field
$210.00
$215.00
Refundable Deposit
Per Use/Field
$260.00
$265.00
Light Charges
Per Hour
$25.00
$28.00
Fields - Unlocked Soccer Goal Fee 
Per Request
$25.00
$30.00
Field Attendant
Per Hour
Staff Rate
Staff Rate
Tennis Court Rental for Organizations
Per Hour
New
$12.00
Tennis Court Reservation
Per Hour
$9.00
$9.00
Bocce Courts (4 hours or less) 
Per Booking
$11.00
$11.00
Bocce Courts (4+ hours) 
Per Booking
$25.00
$25.00
Outdoor Fitness Fee
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
San Mateo High School Gymnasium Rentals
Gym
Per Hour
$75.00
$100.00
Lobby
Per Hour
$30.00
$30.00
Dance Studio
Per Hour
$35.00
$40.00
Multi-Purpose Room
Per Hour
$35.00
$40.00
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 8.6
413 of 509

--- page 414 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
UNIT
FEES EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 12/31/22
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/23
II.
AQUATICS - (See Classification Categories on page 8.12)
A. CENTER RENTALS - (See pages 8.10 - 8.12)
JOINVILLE
Large Pool (includes Dressing Room)
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$24.00
$25.00
Classification E
$35.00
$36.00
Non-Resident
$43.00
$44.00
Small Pool (includes Dressing Room)
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$12.00
$12.00
Classification E
$18.00
$18.00
Non-Resident
$22.00
$22.00
Multi-Purpose Room
See Community 
Centers Category 4 (pg 
8.11)
See 
Community 
Centers 
Category 4 (pg 
8.11)
Off Season Closure Period
By negotiation - full 
cost recovery
By negotiation -
full cost 
recovery
BIRTHDAY PARTY FEE
Reservation Fee/Deposit
Includes 15 Guests
$95.00
$95.00
Additional Guests
Up to 20 Guests
$6.00
$6.00
KING POOL
Both Pools (includes Dressing Room)
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$20.00
$20.00
Classification E
$30.00
$30.00
Non-Resident
$37.00
$37.00
Off Season Closure Period
BOATHOUSE
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$20.00
$20.00
Classification E
$32.00
$32.00
Non-Resident
$41.00
$41.00
FACILITY PERS. RATES
Custodian
Per Hour
Staff Rate
Staff Rate
Facility Specialist
Per Hour
Staff Rate
Staff Rate
LIFEGUARDS
1st Guard - Senior Guard
Per Hour
Staff Rate
Staff Rate
2nd & each additional Guard
Per Hour
Staff Rate
Staff Rate
MARINA LAGOON
Boating pass (power boats 5 hp and up)
Annual
$450.00
$450.00
Daily
$40.00
$40.00
Boating pass (under 5 hp and sail over 8 ft.)
Annual
$250.00
$250.00
Daily
$25.00
$25.00
III.
MISCELLANEOUS FEES
Volleyball net and standards rental
Per Weekend
$30.00
$30.00
Refundable Deposit
$100.00
$100.00
Custodian 
Per Hour
Staff Rate
Staff Rate
Clay
25 lb Bag
Actual cost
Actual cost
PHOTOCOPY & MAILINGS
Agendas
Year
$6.00
$6.00
Agendas & Minutes
Year
$12.00
$12.00
Photocopies
Per Sheet
$0.15
$0.15
IV.
SCHOOL DISTRICT FEES
A.  
B.  SAN MATEO FOSTER CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT (SMFCSD)
Fees shall be applied to the district and affiliated organizations (eg. PTA, Boosters, Foundation) as follows:
SAN MATEO HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
Unless otherwise specified in an adopted facility use agreement, indoor, swimming pool and athletic facility fees shall be calculated administratively to be comparable to the 
SMUHSD fee schedule as it pertains to City use of similar SMUHSD facilities.
Picnic and special park facility fees, and staffing fees charged to SMUHSD shall be at the rates described in other sections of the fee schedule.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 8.7
414 of 509

--- page 415 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
UNIT
FEES EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 6/30/22
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
7/1/22
V.
GOLF COURSE
A. GENERAL
Weekdays
Per Round
$39.00
$41.00
Weekday Twilight
Per Round
$28.00
$30.00
Weekday Super Twilight
Per Round
$20.00
$22.00
Weekends (Fri., Sat., Sun., Holiday) 
Per Round
$55.00
$57.00
Weekend Twilight
Per Round
$35.00
$37.00
Weekend Super Twilight 
Per Round
$27.00
$29.00
Weekday-back 9
Per Round
$25.00
$25.00
Weekend-back 9
Per Round
$29.00
$29.00
Sr. 10 Play Card
Each
$310.00
$320.00
B. RESIDENT
Weekdays
Per Round
$34.00
$36.00
Weekday Twilight
Per Round
$28.00
$30.00
Weekday Super Twilight
Per Round
$20.00
$22.00
Weekends (Fri., Sat., Sun., Holiday) 
Per Round
$47.00
$49.00
Weekend Twilight
Per Round
$35.00
$37.00
Weekend Super Twilight 
Per Round
$27.00
$29.00
Weekday-back 9
Per Round
$25.00
$25.00
Weekend-back 9
Per Round
$29.00
$29.00
Senior Weekdays
Per Round
$30.00
$31.00
Sr. 10 Play Card
Each
$260.00
$270.00
C. JUNIOR
Jr. Weekdays
Per Round
$15.00
$15.00
Jr. Weekend
Per Round
$18.00
$20.00
D. RESIDENT GOLF I.D. CARD
Per Annual Fee
$20.00
$20.00
E. RANGE BALLS (BUCKET)
Size: Warm-up
$5.00
$5.00
Small
$8.00
$8.00
Medium
$11.00
$11.00
Large
$14.00
$14.00
F. MEMBERSHIP SUBSCRIPTION
Per Month
$29.99
$29.99
UNIT
FEES EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 12/31/22
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/23
VI.
PARK AND LANDSCAPE RESOURCES
A. HERITAGE TREE PERMIT
Per Permit
$100.00
$100.00
Tree Replacement Cost (24" Box Tree)
Per Tree
$740.00
$740.00
Right of Way Tree Removal
Per Hour
Actual cost charged by 
a city designated private 
tree care company
Actual cost 
charged by a 
city designated 
private tree 
care company
B. MEMORIAL BENCH
Per Bench
$2,500.00
$2,500.00
C. TREE REPLACEMENT COST (15 gallon)
Each
$483.00
$483.00
D. TREE REPLACEMENT COST (36 inch box)
Each
$1,480.00
$1,480.00
E. TREE REPLACEMENT COST (48 inch box)
Each
$2,960.00
$2,960.00
F. COMMEMORATIVE TREE
Per Tree
$1,000.00
$1,000.00
G. COMMUNITY GARDENS - Community Garden Plots
Per Square Ft.
$0.28
$0.28
H.
Each
$80.00
$80.00
I. HERITAGE TREE APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL (Applicant Exempt from Fee)
Each
$80.00
$80.00
UNIT
FEES EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 6/30/22
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
7/1/22
J.
Each
New
$100.00
Per Residential Unit Type:
Per unit*
Per Unit*
Single Family
$29,598.00
$29,598.00
Multi-family 2-4 Units
$27,172.00
$27,172.00
Multi-family 5+ Units
$20,476.00
$20,476.00
Mobile Homes
$17,564.00
$17,564.00
L.
 Per $100 Valuation on 
Building Permit App. 
$0.30
$0.30
Single Family
3.05
  
persons per unit
Multi-family 2-4 units
2.80
  
persons per unit
Multi-family 5+ units
2.11
  
persons per unit
Mobile Homes
1.81
  
persons per unit
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
TEMPORARY PARK ACCESS PERMIT
PARK AND RECREATION TAX ON RESIDENTIAL BUILDING PERMITS 1
PARK IN-LIEU FEE / PARK IMPACT FEE FOR RESIDENTIAL PLANNING APPLICATION 
PROJECTS INVOLVING PARCEL MAPS, SUBDIVISION AND OTHER MULTI-FAMILY 
RESIDENTIAL PROJECTS.
Golf Fees - The Parks and Recreation Director may adjust green fee amounts for marketing and promotional 
activities as is necessary to encourage optimum play at the municipal golf courses.
HERITAGE TREE APPEAL TO PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION (Applicant Exempt 
from Fee)
K.
* Fee = Land Dedication Requirement x Median Land Value of $5,155,309 per acre adopted by City Council Resolution, where Land Dedication Requirement = [(Quantity of proposed
dwelling units x population factor per dwelling unit type) less (quantity of existing dwelling units x population factor per dwelling unit type)] x (2 acres/ 1000 population) per Muni 
Code Section 26.64. The population factors per dwelling unit type are as follows:
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 8.8
415 of 509

--- page 416 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
UNIT
FEES EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 12/31/22
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/23
VII.
A.
Fee is per Consultant's 
rate
Fee is per 
Consultant's 
B.
Building Valuation on Those 
Building Permits Whose 
Valuation is Over $5,000
0.05%
0.05%
REIMBURSE COST OF STAFF OR CONSULTANT TIME SPENT IN PLAN CHECK OR 
INSPECTION SERVICES. PARK PLAN CHECK AND INSPECTION SERVICES ON BUILDING 
PERMITS. FEE TO BE COLLECTED AT TIME OF BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATION. AFTER 
PAYMENT OF FEES, PERMITTEE MAY APPLY FOR AN EXEMPTION FOR PROJECTS 
HAVING NO PARK PLAN CHECK OR INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
1These fees are collected by Community Development's Building Division - see page 2.3
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT REVIEW FEE1
CONSULTANTS FOR SPECIALIZED PLAN CHECKING AND INSPECTION SERVICES OR TO 
EXPEDITE PLAN CHECKING AND INSPECTION SERVICES
Page 8.9
416 of 509

--- page 417 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
Flat Per Use B-1*
$40.00
$30.00
$25.00
$15.00
Flat Per Use B-2*
$50.00
Flat Per Use B-3*
$45.00
$35.00
$30.00
$20.00
Room Hourly E-1*
Room Hourly 
NR-1*
$120.00
$145.00
$95.00
$120.00
$75.00
$90.00
$40.00
$50.00
Room Hourly E-2*
Room Hourly 
NR-2*
$170.00
$200.00
$145.00
$170.00
$120.00
$135.00
$70.00
$80.00
Hourly E-2
Hourly
NR-2
N/A
N/A
$95.00
$120.00
$75.00
$90.00
$40.00
$50.00
Hourly E-2
Hourly
NR-2
$50.00
$63.00
Flat Per Use E-2
Flat Per Use 
NR-2
$90.00
$115.00
Room Category
Additional Hourly Charges: Hourly Staff Cost for Rental Officer and / or Custodian if needed.
Room Category
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: Hourly Staff Cost for Rental Officer and / or Custodian if needed.
Additional Hourly Charges: Hourly Staff Cost for Rental Officer and / or Custodian if needed.
B-2 Classification: (Non-profit booking on Sat/Sun beginning after 3 pm or ending after 6pm - fee applies to entire booking)
Room Category
Any Room
Additional Hourly Charges: Hourly Staff Cost for Rental Officer and / or Custodian if needed.
B-3 Classification: (B-1 groups reserving regular weekly or monthly meeting times.)
Room Category
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Birthday* (2-hr rental)
King Gymasium
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: If requesting more than one room, use the following chart for additional fees:
Room Category
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
E-2 & NR-2 Classification: (private, profit & non-resident business uses during non-business hours)
Room Category
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: Hourly Staff Cost for Rental Officer and / or Custodian if needed.
E-1 & NR-1 Classification: (private, profit & non-resident business uses during specifically designated operating hrs.)
Room Category
Category 3
Category 4
Community Center Fee Schedule
B-1 Classification: (Non-profit (including 501©(6)) conducting business activity)
Room Category
Category 1
Category 2
Page 8.10
417 of 509

--- page 418 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
Standing
Theatre
Facility
Room
Category
Beresford
Assembly
1
614
439
Beresford
Social
3
359
256
Beresford
Activity
3
540
385
Beresford
Conference
4
Beresford
Studio
4
333
238
Beresford
Club
4
342
244
Beresford
Assembly
2
Central
Activity A/B
2
265
189
Central
Activity A
4
Central
Stage
4
307
219
Central
Lounge
4
254
181
Central
Activity B
4
City Hall
City Council
2
City Hall
Room C
3
City Hall
Atrium
3
City Hall
Room A
4
211
150
City Hall
Room B
4
City Hall
Cafeteria
4
250
178
King
Assembly
1
125
89
King
Social A/B
2
125
89
King
Studio
4
84
60
King
Social A
4
King
Conference
4
King
Social B
4
Joinville Pool
Multipurpose
4
162
116
170
122
101
72
Sr. Center
Assem/MP
1
158
113
Sr. Center
Activity
3
125
89
Sr. Center
Assem/MP A
4
158
113
Sr. Center
Conference
4
150
107
Note - Capacities are fire safety maximums. Rental capacities may vary and are established by each center consistent with use needs.
50
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
53
34
King
Studio
53
King
Social A
42
City Hall
Cafeteria
Joinville 
Multipurpose
54
Central
Activity B
57
City Hall
Conf Rm 
26
Central
Lounge
Central
Stage
42
Beresford
Studio B
42
Beresford
Club
28
Beresford
Studio A
Studio
83
70
85
City Hall
Conf Rm 
City Hall
Atrium
Beresford
Social
Facility
Room
Banquet
C. FACILITY CATEGORY TABLES
City Hall
Council 
King
Social 
Beresford
Sr. Center
Assem/MP 
A (Back 
Half)
King
Social B
King
Conference
City Hall
Conf Rm 
Central
Activity A
Beresford
Conference
Beresford
Sr. Center
Activity
88
Activity
102
111
114
Activity 
Sr. Center
Assembly
180
Central
Beresford
Assembly
205
King
Assembly
120
Central
Assembly
Page 8.11
418 of 509

--- page 419 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
NR-2: NR use during non-public facility hours.
E-2: E classification use during non-public facility hours.
Non-Resident:
Recreation activities, social, business, or service, meetings, and private groups in which one-half of its current membership are 
not residents of the City of San Mateo or in the case of private groups, such as receptions at parties, the applicant (or business) 
is not a City resident.
NR-1: NR use during specifically designated public facility hours.
Any recreation, social, business, or service activity conducted by any person or group not included within Classifications A or 
B and are residents or businesses of the City of San Mateo, such as parties and receptions.
E-1: E classification use during specifically designated public facility hours.
Classification B-2:
Any activities scheduled during "Prime Time," defined as any booking beginning 3 p.m. or later, or ending 6 p.m. or later on 
Saturdays and Sundays.
Classification B-3:
B-1 groups reserving regular monthly meeting times.
Classification B-4:
Classification B:
Recreation activities and meetings that are organized, promoted, conducted, and sponsored by registered non-profits (IRS 
registered non-profit or established and organized not-for-profit groups with written organization documents, stationary, and/or 
membership lists) serving residents of the City of San Mateo and whose membership is open to the general public.
Classification B-1:
Any activities which are related to the business or mission of the organization.
B-1 groups participating in in-kind volunteer service fee waiver program.
Classification E:
FACILITY PERMIT CLASSIFICATION DEFINITIONS
Classification A:
Public recreation activities that are co-sponsored by or affiliated with the Recreation Department after meeting department 
qualifications and requirements.
Page 8.12
419 of 509

--- page 420 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
Athletics Field Priorities
Priority 1:
Programs and activities conducted or sponsored by the City of San Mateo. This includes the San Mateo Police Activities League 
program(s).
Priority 2:
Priority 5:
A. Adult resident sports groups or teams.
B. Resident private rentals.
Priority 6:
Youth or Adult non-resident groups, teams, or individuals. Nonresident is defined as having an organization address outside of the 
San Mateo City limits and/or having less than 25% residency.
Programs conducted by Elementary Schools (K-8) within the City of San Mateo. Also programs conducted by organizations that 
limit their recruitment and sign-ups to individuals living within the San Mateo City limits and are recreational in nature having a 
"everyone plays; no child is turned away" philosophy. Residency requirement for Priority 2 consideration is a minimum of 90%
Priority 3:
Programs conducted by private high schools within the City of San Mateo. Also, programs conducted by organizations in which 
participants must "tryout" or be selected based on skill level. Organizations may be "select" in that participants may be recruited 
from cities other than San Mateo. Residency requirement for Priority 3 consideration is a minimum of 50%. Residency verification 
may be required.
Priority 4:
Programs conducted by organizations in which participants must "tryout" or be selected based on skill level. Organizations may be 
"select" in that participants may be recruited from cities other than San Mateo. Residency requirement for Priority 4 consideration 
is a minimum of 25% residency. Residency verification may be required.
Page 8.13
420 of 509

--- page 421 ---
UNIT
I.
PERMITS
A. MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT:
1. Establishment Certificate for Non-Practitioner Owners
Base Fee for Processing
$586.00
+ Actual Time Spent x Rate Per
Hour as Appropriate
2. Establishment Certificate for Owner/Practitioners
Verification/Processing/Safety Inspection
Base Fee for Processing
$292.00
+ Actual Time Spent x Rate Per
Hour as Appropriate
B. MASSAGE PRACTITIONER OFF- PREMISE
Verification/Processing
Each
$55.00
C. TANNING SALON
1. Tanning Facility Application Fee
Each
$498.00
2. Tanning Facility Biyearly Renewal Fee
Each Facility
$82.00
D.  TAXI CAB DRIVER Investigation/Processing
New/Renewal
$115.00 1
E. TAXI CAB INSPECTION
$138.00 2
F. ENTERTAINMENT PERMIT
Each
$319.00
G. TOW SERVICE
1. Tow Truck Application Fee
$291.00 1
2. Tow Truck Rotation List
$45.00
3. Tow Truck Licensing Fee
$3.00
H.
Fee/Per Hour
$160.00
II.
COPIES OF REPORTS
A. ACCIDENT REPORTS
Per Page
$0.15
B. CAD REPORTS
Per Page
$0.15
C. ARREST REPORTS
Per Page
$0.15
D. CLEARANCE LETTER
Each
$10.00
E. PUBLIC RECORDS REQUEST
Per Page
$0.15
III.
VIDEO/AUDIO TAPE RECORDS AND PHOTOS
A. VIDEO RECORDINGS
1.
Each
$12.00
B. PHOTOS
Each
$5.00
IV.
Each
$15.00
V.
A.
Per 1/4 Hour
$6.00
B.
Per Page
$0.10
C.
Each
Actual Cost
DVD / CD / Flash drive Recording
FILING OF REPORT OF REPOSSESSION 
(State Law GC 41612)
SUBPOENA DUCES TECUM  
(State Law CEC 1563)
CLERICAL COSTS (Charged on a 1/4 hr basis w/the hrly rate set at $24.00)
STANDARD REPRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS OF A SIZE OF 8 1/2 X 
14 INCHES OR LESS
REPRODUCTION OF OVERSIZE DOCUMENTS, DOCUMENTS 
REQUIRING SPECIAL PROCESSING, POSTAGE, RETRIEVAL/RETURN 
OF RECORDS HELD OFF-SITE
POLICE
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
FEE
Background Investigation/Verification/ Processing/Safety Inspection
PROJECT PLAN CHECKING FEE ON BUILDING PERMITS
Page 9.1
421 of 509

--- page 422 ---
POLICE
UNIT
VI.
FALSE ALARMS
First alarm starting each fiscal year (7/1/21)
One
Free
2nd & over
Each
$108.00
VII.
Each
As determined by the County
VIII. OFFICER RESPONSE
A.
Per Hour
$90.00
B.
Per Hour
$90.00
Per Officer
(one (1) hour min.)
C.
See “SPECIAL COMMUNITY EVENTS PERMIT” Section
D.
Each
$275.00
(per CA Government Code 
68097.2)
IX.
VEHICLE RELEASES
A. IMPOUNDED/STORED VEHICLE
Each
$20.00
X.
One
$111.00
Additional
$72.00
XI.
OUTSIDE DETAIL RATES 3, 4
Police Officer
Per Hour
$108.67
Police Sergeant
Per Hour
$130.39
Community Service Officer
Per Hour
$65.79
Sr. Dispatcher
Per Hour
$85.58
Police Reserve Officer
Per Hour
$81.96
Police Vehicle Abatement Officer
Per Hour
$52.74
Police Officer
Per Hour
$135.84
Police Sergeant
Per Hour
$162.99
Community Service Officer
Per Hour
$82.24
Sr. Dispatcher
Per Hour
$106.97
Police Reserve Officer
Per Hour
$102.45
Police Vehicle Abatement Officer
Per Hour
$65.93
Police Department Footnotes:
1 Plus prevailing State, Federal and County Fees for fingerprinting of applicants that are at the following costs:
DOJ Prevailing Fee
$32.00
FBI Prevailing Fee
$17.00
County Prevailing Fee
$5.00
$54.00
2
3
4
Category B: Fund raising events organized, conducted and sponsored by 
registered non- profit organizations.
Category C: Events sponsored by for-profit business or non-tax-exempt 
i
i
The fee will include up to two re-inspections at no additional cost.  Additional inspections will be billed at 50% of the original cost.
OUTSIDE DETAIL
CIVIL SUBPOENA WITNESS FEE DEPOSIT (Governed by State Law). 
Actual costs will be charged
(excluding vehicles towed exclusively under the authority of VC 22651(c), (g),
(k), (o), (i.)(l), or VC 226.55.5).
Category A: City organized, conducted, sponsored, or co-sponsored events, or 
non- profit sponsored events that benefit city programs.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
FEE
BOOKING FEE (UPON CONVICTION) STATE LAW SECTION 29550.1.
EMERGENCY RESPONSE TO DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE (DUI) 
upon conviction (Gov't Code Section 53150-58)
DISTURBANCE SERVICE FEE
(loud parties, barking dogs, etc.)
STORAGE OF FIREARM 
(Includes safekeeping)
In the event the Police Department must augment staffing of an outside detail with personnel from an allied agency, the outside detail rate charged 
shall be commensurate to the actual rate which is charged by that agency, which may be higher/lower than the rate listed.
The rates charged for Outside Detail may be updated during the Fiscal Year to reflect negotiated salary increases and ensure full cost recovery.
Page 9.2
422 of 509

--- page 423 ---
POLICE
$79.00/ $10.00 w/POC
$47.00/ $10.00 w/POC
$47.00/ $10.00 w/POC
$43.00
$47.00
$43.00
$47.00
$47.00
$47.00
$47.00
$43.00
$47.00
$43.00
$47.00
$47.00
$347.00
$43.00
$347.00
$47.00
$47.00
$58.00
$47.00
$347.00
$149.00
$149.00
$47.00
$47.00
$47.00
$47.00
$47.00
$43.00
$43.00
$43.00
$43.00
$43.00
$43.00
$43.00
$47.00
$43.00
$43.00
$43.00
$43.00
$43.00
Overtime in meter zone/feeding meter
$43.00
$43.00
$43.00
$43.00
$47.00
21113
Parking on public grounds-no permit
22500.1
Fire lane
22500(a)
Parking within an intersection
PARKING PENALTY SCHEDULE
Only one violation per citation
4000(a)
Expired registration (make sure you check the POC box)
5200
License plates failure to display (make sure you check the POC box)
5204
Tabs (make sure you check the POC box)
22500(e)
Blocking any driveway
22500(f)
Parking on a sidewalk
22500(g)
Obstructing traffic by parking near excavation
22500(b)
Parking within a crosswalk
22500(c)
Parking within a safety zone
22500(d)
Parking within 15 ft. of fire station driveway
22500(l)
Blocking wheelchair access to sidewalk
22502(a)
Not within 18” of the curb
22507.8
Handicapped parking
22500(h)
Double parking
22500(i)
Parking within bus zone
22500(k)
Parking upon any bridge
22521
Parking within 7 ½ feet of train tracks
22522
Blocking disabled ramp
22523(a)
Abandoned vehicle- any highway
22514
Blocking fire hydrant
22515(a)
Parked with engine running and/or parking brake not set
22516
Person locked in vehicle
11.32.070
Red, yellow, etc., curb markings
11.32.100
Commercial vehicle on residential street, 10,000 lbs. GVW
11.32.105
Oversized vehicle/trailer parked on residential street
22523(b)
Abandon vehicle-public/private property
11.32.030
Truck parked on City street (may be used for limos, small shuttle buses, and small school buses)
11.32.040
Parked on parkway (Planting strip)
11.40.040(a)
Restricted parking on City street (posted) (No residential parking permit)
11.40.040(b)
Restricted parking on City lot (posted) i.e., City Hall, Rec Centers, Library, etc.
11.40.055
Street sweeping
11.36.010(1)
Parallel parking in angle slot
11.36.020
Angle parking (right front tire not within 18” of curb)
11.40.040(a)
Restricted parking on City street (posted)
11.40.110
Parked on private property w/o consent
11.44.090
Parked in front of a hooded meter
11.44.130
Parking over lines
11.40.060
Curb wheels/set brake on hill
11.40.070
Parking so as to obstruct traffic
11.40.100
Violation of emergency signs posted
11.48.070
Parking in bus zone (curb marked)
17.08.20
Boat or other object parked on public right-of-way
11.44.150
Meter violation
11.44.160
11.44.165
Repeat violations for overtime parking (2nd violation-same day, same place)
11.48.030
Parking in alley
Page 9.3
423 of 509

--- page 424 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
PARKING FEES
A. TEMPORARY NO PARKING METERS (1)
Up to 7 days
Per Day/Per Meter
$12.50
8 – 49 days
Per Wk./Per Meter
$75.00
50 – 98 days
Per Wk./Per Meter
$150.00
99+ days
Per Wk./Per Meter
$300.00
Per Installation
$77.00
B. TEMPORARY "NO PARKING" SIGNS
Each
$3.00
C. DOWNTOWN PARKING FEE PARKING PASSES
2nd and El Camino Real 
Monthly
$65.00
Central Parking
Monthly
$100.00
Tennis Court Garage 
Monthly
$65.00
Main Street Garage 
Monthly
$100.00
Transit Center
Monthly
$65.00
Railroad Avenue between 5th to 9th
Monthly
$40.00
Low-Income Parking Permit
Monthly
$40.00
D. ON-STREET AND OFF-STREET RATES (per SMMC 11.40.010)
($0.50 minimum for credit cards at pay stations)
Time Limit:
Premium On-Street Space 
3 Hours/per Hour
$1.50
Premium Off-Street Facilities 
3 Hours/Per Hour
$1.25
Premium Off-Street Facilities
No Limit
$1.25
(Central Garage – Lots 4, 5, 6), Main Street Garage
Value On-Street Spaces
3 Hours/Per Hour
$1.00
Value Off-Street Facilities 
3 Hours/Per Hour
$0.75
Value Off-Street Facilities
No Limit
$0.75
No Limit
$0.25
E. VALET PARKING PERMIT FEE
Permit Fee 
Per Permit
$478.00
Implementation/Replacement Costs:
Curb Marking
Each Location
$85.00
Signs
Per Sign
$141.00
Meter Pole/Bracket
Per Pole/Bracket
$40.00
F.
Annually Per Space Per Day
$1.00 x # of spaces x # of 
days of operation per 
week x 52 weeks
G. PUBLIC EV CHARGING STATION
Per kW/h
$0.26
USE OF PUBLIC PARKING SPACES FOR VALET STATIONS
PUBLIC WORKS
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
For each time the City installs and removes a meter bag.
(Main Street Garage – Lot 1, Second and ECR Garage – Lot 2, Tennis Court Garage – Lot 3, 5th and B 
Lot – Lot 7, 4th and Railroad Lot – Lot 8, Transit Center – Lot 9, 5th to 9th Ave on S. Railroad Ave), 
Kinko’s Lot – Lot 10, and Worker’s Resource Lot – Lot 11
Page 10.1
424 of 509

--- page 425 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
II.
ENCROACHMENT PERMITS (see Encroachment Permit Notes (II))
A. FLAT FEE ENCROACHMENT PERMITS
1.Residential Driveway / Sidewalk / Curb & Gutter
Each
$723.00
2.
Each
$381.00
3.Temporary Rental Storage Container (i.e. Pods)
Each
$166.00
4.Traffic Control 
Each
$581.00
5.Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining
a. Permit Application Fee
Each
$385.10
b. Parklet Encroachment Permit Fee
Each
$385.10
6.Public Improvements Related to Planning Applications (PA)
Each
$214.00
7.Sewer Lateral
Each
$896.00
8.Time Extension
Each
$40.00
9. Dock Permit
a. New Installation and Repaire or Replacment
Each
$3,167.00
b. Annual Fee
Per Dock
$43.00
10. Parklet 
a. Permit Application Fee
Each
$500.00
Per Public Parking Space 
Used in the Parklet
$250.00
b. Parklet Encroachment Permit Fee
Per Public Parking Space 
Used in the Parklet
$250.00
B. ALL OTHER ENCROACHMENT PERMITS
Construction Cost in Public ROW
$0-$50k
Base
$1,756.86
$50k-$100k
Base
$1,756.86
+Every dollar above $50k
5.00%
$100k-$500k
Base
$4,256.51
+Every dollar above $100k
2.91%
$500k-$1m
Base
$15,893.59
+Every dollar above $500k
2.11%
$1m-$5m
Base
$26,462.63
+Every dollar above $1m
0.27%
$5m +
Base
$37,423.82
+Every dollar above $5m
0.28%
Temporary Encroachment Permit (i.e. dumpsters, scaffolding, soil tests, sewer video inspections, etc.)
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 10.2
425 of 509

--- page 426 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
NOTES:
II.
ENCROACHMENT PERMITS
A. FLAT FEE ENCROACHMENT PERMITS
1. Residential Driveway / Sidewalk / Curb & Gutter
2. Temporary Encroachment Permit (i.e. dumpsters, scaffolding, soil tests, sewer video inspections, etc.)
3. Temporary Rental Storage Container  (i.e. Pods)
4. Traffic Control 
5. Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining
6. Public Improvements Related to Planning Applications (PA)
7. Sewer Lateral
8. Time Extension
9. Dock Permit
a.
New Installation and Repaire or Replacment
b.
Annual Fee
10. Parklet 
B. ALL OTHER ENCROACHMENT PERMITS
In order to obtain an encroachment permit, an Encroachment Permit Application must be filled out by the owner of the property or the contractor performing the work. In 
addition to the required fee and application, all aspects of Chapter 17 of the San Mateo Municipal Code must be adhered to. The applicant must post financial security 
equal to the value of the improvements to secure performance. Labor and materials must also be secured at one-half the value of the improvements. Current standard 
insurance must be on file with the City. Insurance requirements include public liability and property damage insurance, naming the City as an additional insured. Evidence
of insurance may include a certificate and/or endorsement. A portion of the fee will be used to fund the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program (STOPPP) in 
accordance with Chapter 7.39 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. Fees are waived for City projects.
This fee will cover permit processing and inspections for encroachment permits related to driveways, sidewalks, and/or curb and gutters.  Traffic control as part of this
permit is included in the fee and no additional fees are required. The application shall include necessary insurance and security deposit.  Time extension may be 
granted per the fee schedule. 
An encroachment permit, including necessary insurance and security deposits, will be required for the placement of temporary items, including dumpsters, scaffolding,
equipment for soil tests, equipment for sewer video inspections, in the public right-of-way. The application shall include necessary insurance and security deposit. 
Time extension may be granted per the fee schedule. 
An encroachment permit, including general liability insurance, will be required for the placment of temporary storage container or portable on-demand storage in the
public right-of-way.  Approved permit renewals will be charged at a rate of $10 per container per day.
This fee will cover permit processing for  time extensions of certain encroachment permits as noted.  Changes to the scope of work is not covered by this fee.
This fee will cover permit processing and inspections for encroachment permits related the installation, repair or replacement of docks. The application shall 
include necessary insurance and security deposit.
Dock owners shall pay an annual fee to cover the costs of program administration and periodic inspections.
Encroachment permits for work that is not listed under Flat Fee Encroachment Permits, shall pay a fee based on the construction cost of the work in the public right-of-
way.  This fee will cover permit processing and inspections for the encroachment.  Applicants shall submit a construction cost estimate of work within the public right-of-
way with their application, which will be subject to the review and approval by Public Works. The application shall include necessary insurance and security deposit.  For 
utility companies,  they shall be exempt from providing a security deposit, billing will be on a quaterly basis, and current insurance is required to be on file with the City.
An encroachment permit application, including necessary insurance and application fees, will be required for parklet installations in most commercial areas.
Applicant shall pay the renewel fee annually prior to permit expiration.
An encroachment permit, including necessary insurance and security deposits, will be required for traffic control, in the public right-of-way, that is not associated with
another encroachment permt. Time extension may be granted per the fee schedule. 
An encroachment permit appication, including necessary insurance and application fee, will be required for ground floor food service businesses to provide outdoor 
seating and related furnishings in the following areas if the applicant meets certain City standards and conditions of use:  Commercial districts on the sidewalk (with
the exception of along El Camino Real), Pedestrian mall on B Street between 1st and 3rd Avenue on the sidewalk and/or street.  Applicant shall pay the renewel fee 
annually prior to permit expiration.
When work that requires an encroachment permit is done in conjunction with a Planning Applicattion (PA), a processing fee is required.  The Project Account for the
PA will cover the cost for engineering review and inspection services by the City related to the encroachment. The application shall include necessary insurance and 
security deposit. Time extension may be granted per the fee schedule. 
This fee will cover permit processing and inspections for encroachment permits related to sewer laterals.  Traffic control as part of this permit is included in the fee and
no additional fees are required. The application shall include necessary insurance and security deposit. Time extension may be granted per the fee schedule. 
Page 10.3
426 of 509

--- page 427 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
III. STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION CONSTRUCTION PERMITS
A. PERMIT FEE - non-refundable
Each
No Fee
Each
$587.51
Each
$587.51
B. EROSION CONTROL MINIMUM COMPLIANCE
Minimum Deposit
$395.48
NOTES:
III. STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION CONSTRUCTION PERMITS
Type III and IV Projects
(See Stormwater Pollution Prevention Construction Permit Notes for description of types of projects)
PLUS
Type IV Projects
Type IV Projects are large sized projects, 1 acre or greater. Type IV Projects require a General Permit issued by the State Water Resources Control Board in addition to the 
City’s STOPPP Construction Permit. The STOPPP Construction Permit fee is listed above. Type IV projects required a minimum refundable deposit for erosion control plan 
compliance. The minimum deposit is required at plan submittal for additional plan checking and inspection. At the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be required to 
be added to the deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated inspection fees, as determined by the City. Any portion not expended by the City in its engineering review 
and inspection is refundable. Time billed at $130.00 per hour. Expenses not covered by the deposit will be billed monthly. Bills to be paid in accordance with regular City billing 
processes. Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off of conditions. The deposit will be refunded if permittee has complied with the submitted erosion plan and the City 
has not been required to perform work on permitee’s behalf. 
Type III and IV Projects -  Refundable Deposit
(See Stormwater Pollution Prevention Construction Permit Notes)
In order to obtain a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program (STOPPP) Construction permit per the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, an applicant (i.e., property 
owner or contractor performing the work) must  pay the appropriate permit fee. Type I Projects are not required to pay the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program 
Construction Permit fee, but are still required to comply with Construction Best Management Practices (BMP) as outlined in the permit card. Storm drain polluters may be
liable for fines up to $10,000 per day. A permittee under the STOPPP Construction permit is required to adhere to all aspects of Chapter 7.39 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. 
If the work being done involves an encroachment permit, a separate  STOPPP permit is not required since the encroachment permit includes it. 
Type I Projects
Type I Projects are small projects not in the public right-of-way that are generally under 20 cubic yards of soil disturbance (i.e. most residential driveways).  If the work being 
done involves an encroachment permit, a separate STOPPP permit is not required since the encroachment permit includes it. 
Type II Projects
Type II Projects are medium projects generally over 20 cubic yards of soil disturbance, such as installation/removal of swimming pools, demolition/installation of garages, home 
additions, retaining walls, and decks, that do not require a planning application and are reviewed through the building permit process (excluding residential driveways not in the 
public right-of-way). The fee for this type of project is listed above. No deposit is required.
Type III Projects
Type III Projects are medium sized projects over 20 cubic yards of soil disturbance, such as home additions, new single family homes, that require a planning application. The 
fee for a Type III Project is listed above. Type III projects require a minimum refundable deposit for erosion control plan compliance. The minimum deposit is required at plan 
submittal to guarantee to the City that the permitted will comply with the terms and conditions of the permit. At the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be required to 
be added to the deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated inspection fees, as determined by the City. Any portion not expended by the City in its engineering review 
and inspection is refundable. Time billed at $130.00 per hour. Expenses not covered by the deposit will be billed monthly. Bills to be paid in accordance with regular City billing 
processes. Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off of conditions. The deposit will be refunded if permittee has met all requirement in the erosion plan and the City has 
not been required to perform work on permitee’s behalf.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
(See Stormwater Pollution Prevention Construction Permit Notes)
Type I Projects
Type II Projects
Page 10.4
427 of 509

--- page 428 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
IV. SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMITS (See SMMC 23.40)
185 - 1,000 cubic yards
Base
$1,595.00
+ Per 50 c.y. greater than 185
$45.00
1,001 - 10,000 cubic yards
Base
$3,653.00
+ Per 100 c.y. greater than
1,000
$74.00
over 10,000 cubic yards
Base
$9,618.00
+ Per 100 c.y. greater than
10,000
$59.00
V.
FINAL MAP-PLAN CHECK/ PROCESSING
A. PARCEL MAPS
Per Map
$4,431.00
B. FINAL MAPS/CONDO CONVERSTIONS
Per Map
$8,105.00
C. LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT/MERGERS (by deed)
Each
$2,595.00
D. CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE
Each
$1,390.00
E. ABANDONMENT EASEMENT / RIGHT-OF-WAY
Each
$8,140.00
VI. REPAIR TO CITY PROPERTY
A. LABOR
Hour
$182.00
Hour O/T
$205.00
B. CONTRACTOR
Hour
Cost + 5%
C. MATERIAL & EQUIPMENT
Each
Cost + 5%
D. INSPECTION/SURVEY/ ENGINEERING
Hour
$198.00
Equipment rate based on the most recent State "Labor Surcharge and Equipment Rental Rates" book published by 
Caltrans Publications.
A Site Development Permit shall comply with SMMC 23.40.  An application, including required fees, insurance
and deposits are required.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 10.5
428 of 509

--- page 429 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
VII. ENVIRONMENTAL  COMPLIANCE FEES
A. CLASS A WASTE DISCHARGE PERMIT ANNUAL FEE
Each
$687.00
B. CLASS B WASTE DISCHARGE PERMIT ANNUAL FEE
Each
$497.00
C. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMIT ANNUAL FEE
Each
$343.00
D. POLLUTION PREVENTION INSPECTION FEE
Per Hour
$308.00
E. INSPECTION/INVESTIGATION FEE
Per Hour
$154.00
Per Hour OT
$180.00
F. SAMPLING FEE
Per Hour
$154.00
Per Hour OT
$180.00
G. ANALYTICAL SERVICES FEE
Each
Cost
H. HYDRAULIC LOADING CHARGE
Per 100 Cu. Ft.
Basic Sewer Service 
Charge rate
I.
DEFICIENCY RESULTING IN “SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE”
Each
$452.30
J.
FAILURE TO CONDUCT SELF-MONITORING
Per Hour
$136.42
K.
Each
$281.25
L. ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP/ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCE
1.
Labor
Per Hour
$154.00
Per Hour OT
$180.00
2.
Material And Equipment
Each
Cost
3.
Contract Services
Each
Cost
M. APPEAL - of decision to issue permit, levy fees, or finding of noncompliance
$2,182.00
N.
Each Case
$4,069.00
FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH OFFICIAL NOTICE TO CORRECT VIOLATION
VIOLATIONS REQUIRING INSPECTION WARRANT, OR COMMENCEMENT OF CIVIL 
LITIGATION PROCEEDINGS
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 10.6
429 of 509

--- page 430 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
NOTES:
VII. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE FEES
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
H.
I.
J.
K.
L.
M.
N.
Analytical Services Fee. Cost based in service provider cost of service.
Pollution Prevention Inspection Fee. The Director is authorized to conduct all inspection, surveillance, and monitoring procedures necessary to assure compliance with this 
Chapter. The Director may enter without unreasonable delay, during facility hours of operation, any premises of any user in which a potential pollutant discharge source 
exists or in which facility discharge and materials and waste records are kept. Records shall be made available to the Director for inspection and copying. Reasonable 
times for inspection and sampling may include times that are unannounced. (7.38.350, 7.39.140) Cost based on 0.5- hour admin and inspection time per year at standard 
labor rate.
Violations Requiring Inspection Warrant or Commencement of Civil Litigation Proceedings. In the event that the user refuses the Director entry to the premises, 
inspection may be made only upon the issuance of a search warrant by a duly authorized magistrate. In the event that the user refuses entry after the request has been 
made, the Director is hereby empowered to seek assistance from the court in obtaining such entry; Any person who has violated or continues to violate the provisions of 
this Chapter or any order or permit issued hereunder, shall be subject to the imposition of civil penalties pursuant to Chapter 1.11 of this Code. (7.38.350, 7.39.140, 
7.38.410, 7.39.200, 7.38.480, 7.39.290)
Appeal of Decision to Issue Permit, Levy fees, or Finding of Noncompliance. Any person affected by any decision, action or determination, including administrative 
remedies, made in interpreting or implementing the provisions of this Chapter may appeal therefrom to the City of San Mateo Public Works Commission. (7.39.200). Fee 
is refunded if appellant prevails.
Environmental Cleanup/Abatement of Public Nuisance. City may impose a charge upon the user to reimburse the City or District for the cost of cleaning and/or repair of 
City facilities, including mitigation of waste discharge to the storm drainage system; any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this 
Chapter is a threat to the public health, safety and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance., and may be summarily abated and/or restored by the City. The cost of 
such abatement and restoration shall be borne by the owner of the property. (7.38.180, 7.38.470, 7.39.280).
Class B Discharge Permit. A Class B permit shall be issued, at the discretion of the Director, to any user who is not a significant industrial user, yet requires periodic 
inspection and/or monitoring to verify compliance with this Chapter. A Class B permit may be required for discharge of industrial waste from stationary sources, trucked 
wastes, contaminated groundwater, and other industrial wastes approved by the Director for discharge to the sanitary sewer. (7.38.260). Cost based on 1.5 hours admin 
and inspection time per year at standard labor rate.
Class A Discharge Permit. A Class A permit shall be issued to all significant industrial users (SIU). Class A permit holders are regulated in accordance with the 
requirements specified in the pretreatment regulations, 40 CFR Part 403 and 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471, as amended, and this Chapter. (7.38.260) 
Cost based on 4 hours admin and inspection time per year at standard labor rate.
Inspection/Investigation Fee. Applies to inspection and investigation activities not covered in D. or K. Cost based on standard labor rate.
Sampling Fee. The Director shall have the right to establish on any property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling or metering operations. During all 
inspections as provided herein, the official may take any samples deemed necessary to aid in the pursuit of the inquiry or in the recording of activities on the  site. 
(7.38.350, 7.39.140). Cost based standard labor rate.
Failure to Comply with Official Notice to Correct Violation. When an authorized enforcement official finds that a user has violated or is violating this Chapter, or a permit 
or order issued hereunder, the official may serve upon said user a Notice of Violation which enumerates the violations found, and orders compliance by a date certain. 
(7.38.460, 7.39.270); any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter is a threat to the public health, safety and welfare, and 
is declared and deemed a nuisance. (7.38.470, 7.39.280)
Failure to Conduct Self-monitoring. The Director may require that the user conduct a sampling and analysis program of the user’s waste or stormwater discharge of a 
frequency and type required by the Director to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this Chapter. (7.38.360, 7.39.160).
Deficiency Resulting in “Significant Noncompliance”. At least annually, the Director shall provide public notice in the largest local daily newspaper a list of those 
significant industrial users that, during the previous twelve (12) months, were found in significant noncompliance, as defined in the pretreatment regulations and this 
Chapter. (7.38.420). Cost based on administrative time and cost of publication for 3 days in San Mateo County Times.
The following fees are intended to help recover the cost of implementation and enforcement of SMMC Chapter 7.38
Hydraulic Loading Charge. The Director may impose upon the user a hydraulic loading charge for discharge of groundwater or other waters in cases where conventional 
sewer service charges applied by the City or District do not account for said flows or uses. User discharges which exceed 10,000 gallons per batch discharge or users 
undertaking long term discharges of groundwater to the sanitary sewer shall be metered and levied a hydraulic loading charge based upon the basic sewer service charge 
rate. (7.38.260)
Stormwater Management Permit. A property that is required to install, operate, and maintain stormwater treatment facilities, or maintain parking lots, storm drain inlets, or 
other facilities for stormwater pollution prevention as specified in project conditions, shall obtain a Stormwater Management (SWM) permit from the Director of Public 
Works. (7.39.235). Cost based on 2 hours admin and inspection time per year at standard labor rate.
Page 10.7
430 of 509

--- page 431 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
VIII. DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES (subject to annual review)
A. WASTEWATER CAPACITY CHARGE
a.
Per Dwelling Unit
$10,399.72
b.
Per Dwelling Unit
$5,199.34
Per Dwelling Unit
$8,666.26
Per Dwelling Unit
$10,399.72
c.
Per Room/Apartment
$5,199.34
d.
Per Bedroom
$5,199.34
e.
Per Square Foot
$5.20
a.
Per Meter
$10,399.72
Per Meter
$11,139.82
Per Meter
$12,269.16
b.
Per Meter
$17,332.52
Per Meter
$18,565.67
Per Meter
$20,448.60
c.
Per Meter
$34,665.05
Per Meter
$37,132.37
Per Meter
$40,897.20
d.
Per Meter
$55,463.45
Per Meter
$59,410.97
Per Meter
$65,435.52
e.
Per Meter
$103,994.11
Per Meter
$111,396.08
Per Meter
$122,690.56
f.
Per Meter
$173,323.16
Per Meter
$185,659.79
Per Meter
$204,484.96
g.
Per Meter
$346,646.33
Per Meter
$371,320.63
Per Meter
$408,969.92
h.
Per Meter
$554,633.50
Per Meter
$594,112.79
Per Meter
$654,352.09
a.
Per Gallon Per Day
$80.50
b.
Per Pound Per Day
$1,944.71
c.
Per Pound Per Day
$1,753.51
Meter size of 1 inch
i. Class B
ii. Class C
iii. Class D
Meter size of 2 inches
i. Class B
ii. Class C
iii. Class D
Meter size of 6 inches
Flow
Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD)
Suspended Solids (SS)
*Wastewater Class Thresholds
●Class B represents standard strength, a biological oxygen demand of 200 mg/L, and a suspended solids measurement of 200 mg/L 
●Class C represents moderate strength, a biological oxygen demand of 400 mg/L, and a suspended solids measurement of 400 mg/L 
●Class D represents high strength, a biological oxygen demand of 800 mg/L, and a suspended solids measurement of 600 mg/L 
ii. Class C
iii. Class D
3. Industrial
The capacity charge for industrial uses is based on estimated wastewater flow and strength.
Meter size of 8 inches
i. Class B
Meter size of 3 inches
i. Class B
ii. Class C
iii. Class D
Meter size of 4 inches
Meter size of 1 inch and 1/2 inch
i. Class B
i. Class B
ii. Class C
iii. Class D
iii. Class D
ii. Class C
i. Class B
ii. Class C
iii. Class D
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
1. Residential
Class A represents all residential uses, a biological oxygen demand of 200mg/L, and a suspended solids measurement of 
200mg/L
i. Class B
ii. Class C
iii. Class D
Meter size of up to 3/4 inch
Accessory Dwelling Unit
Board or lodging houses
Hotels or motels
2. Commercial/Institutional
The capacity charge for commercial/institutional uses is based on water meter size and wastewater class. *see footnote
below for class explanation*
iii. 3+ bedroom
Single-family
Multi-family
ii. 2 bedroom
i. Studio & 1 bedroom
Page 10.8
431 of 509

--- page 432 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
VIII. DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES (subject to annual review) (continued)
B. TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE
1.
Residential
a. Single-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$6,867.99
b. Multi-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$3,468.58
2.
Commercial and Industrial
a. Retail
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$27,735.48
b. Office
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$8,366.76
c. Industrial
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$4,589.64
d. Hotel
Per Room
$4,367.84
e. Institution
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$3,568.50
C.
Per Space
$57,699.90
IX. NEWSRACK ORDINANCE VIOLATION
A. ABATEMENT FEE
failure to abate violation for Chapter 17.12 of the S.M.M.C.
Per Violation
$69.55
B. APPEAL OF ABATEMENT ORDER FEE
(Fee refunded if appellant prevails).
Per Violation
$134.94
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
CENTRAL PARKING IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT PER SPACE IN-LIEU FEE
Page 10.9
432 of 509

--- page 433 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
X. MISCELLANEOUS FEES
A. PLANS AND SPECS
Per Set
Varies at cost
B. ENGINEERING PHOTOCOPIES - large sizes
24" x 36"
Per Print
Actual Cost
36" x no. of feet
Per Print
Actual Cost
C. PHOTOCOPIES
8.5" x 11"
Per Copy
$0.15
8.5" x 14"
Per Copy
Actual Cost
11" x 17"
Per Copy
Actual Cost
D. HANG BANNER
Per Request
$379.00
+ certificate of insurance
E. STREET LIGHT BANNER
Per Pole/ Per Banner
$95.00
F. CURB PAINTING:
a.
Review
1. Red Tipping
Per Request
$376.00
2. Blue Curb (Disabled)
 Per Request 
$376.00
3. Yellow Curb (Loading Zone)
Per Request
$284.00
4. White Curb (Passenger Loading)
Per Request
$284.00
5. Green Curb (Limited-Time)
Per Request
$284.00
6. Non-Critical Red Zones
Per Request
$183.00
b.
Installation
1. Red Tipping
Per Request
$189.00
2. Blue Curb (Disabled)
 Per Request 
$474.00
3. Yellow Curb (Loading Zone)
Per Request
$284.00
4. White Curb (Passenger Loading)
Per Request
$189.00
5. Green Curb (Limited-Time)
Per Request
$474.00
6. Non-Critical Red Zones
Per Request
$284.00
G.
Each
$905.00
H. WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILTIES PERMIT
1.
Wireless Permits Application Fee
Min Deposit Per Location 
$4,000.00
2.
Master License Agreement Fee
Min Deposit Per New 
Agreement
$1,000.00
Per Hour
$200.00
3.
Per Location Per Year
$270.00
4.
Min Deposit Per Location 
$2,500.00
5.
Per Hour
$200.00
I. SHARED MOBILITY PERMIT APPLICATION FEE
Each
$5,000.00
J.
Each
$1,520.00
Section 6409 Permit
License Fee for City Pole (subject to 3% annual increase)
 
Annual fee for each attachment to a municipality – owned structure in the public right-of-way
Request to place a new facility or substantial modification of an existing facility in the public
ROW. This minimum deposit listed is required at the pre-application phase. The deposit will
cover field visits, engineering review of the existing or proposed facilities, inspections during
construction, the cost of hiring an independent consultant with specialized or expert knowledge
in connection with wireless facilities, including, but not limited to: permit application
completeness and/or accuracy, compliance with RF emissions, gap in services, alternative sites
analysis, inspection during construction, and administrative time to process the permit
application. At the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be required to be added to the
deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated, as determined by the City. Any portion
not expended by the City is refundable. Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off.
(Amendments charged at actual cost per hourly rate)
This fee will cover the development of a Tie-Back Agreement related to tie-backs within the public right-of-
way.
Hourly Rate for City Labor/Services
TIE-BACKS IN THE PUBLIC ROW
Request to modify an existing facility in the public ROW. If modifications are deemed
substantial, applicant shall apply for a Minor or Major Permit. This minimum deposit listed is
required at the pre-application phase and will cover field visits, engineering review of the
existing or proposed facilities, inspections during construction, the cost of hiring an
independent consultant with specialized or expert knowledge in connection with wireless
facilities, including, but not limited to: permit application completeness and/or accuracy,
compliance with RF emissions, gap in services, alternative sites analysis, inspections during
construction, and administrative time to process the permit application. At the time of permit
issuance, additional funds may be required to be added to the deposit if the deposit balance is
less than estimated, as determined by the City. Any portion not expended by the City is
refundable. Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off.
(Note: Nonprofit organizations may contract with a vendor of their choice to install their banners but an
encroachment permit is required.)
ADDRESS ASSIGNMENT FEE to be charged when assignment is not required as a condition of 
construction; charge for non-essential address changes only.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 10.10
433 of 509

--- page 434 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
SPECIAL EVENT APPLICATION FEES
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
SPECIAL EVENT FEES FOR SERVICE
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
UNIT
FEE
I. USE FEES -
PUBLIC STREETS AND RIGHT OF WAYS
Daily Use Fees:
Per Day
$100.00
Per Day
$200.00
Television Series/Movies/Pilot and Feature Films
Per Day
$300.00
CIVIC FACILITIES, PARKS, SPECIAL USE AREAS (for all uses)
Per Hour
$50.00
II. SUPPORT SERVICES FEES
III. DEPOSIT
All businesses shall submit a refundable deposit in the amount of $1,000.00 at the time fees are due and payable to cover any unanticipated support services fees, 
property damage repair, etc.
Videos/Travel/Documentary/Still Photography/Industrial Commercials
Filming fees shall apply to commercial businesses desiring to film on public streets, right of ways or within city owned facilities, including parks, civic facilities and buildings or 
special use areas, such as Poplar Creek Golf Course.  Prior to the granting of a permit, all businesses shall comply with all applicable policies and procedures, including, but not 
limited to, evidence of insurance, permits and licenses, and appropriate hold harmless language.
Any filming use that requires any of the following, shall be billed in accordance with the guidelines outlined within the Special Community Events Permit Fee 
section, Category C designation; i.e. for-profit businesses or non-tax exempt organizations:
Fees for use of City equipment, consumable supplies, preparation of specialized logistic plans, specialized contracted services and on-duty personnel will be billed 
at cost, plus a 25% administrative overhead fee.
Fees for use of overtime personnel shall be calculated at the top step prevailing overtime rate for the classification(s) utilized plus a 25% administrative overhead 
fee.
SPECIAL COMMUNITY EVENTS PERMIT
COMMERCIAL FILMING FEES
FEE CATEGORY
Overtime rates for personnel not regularly on duty who are required to work the event
Fair market value charges for utilization of City equipment and/or vehicles used in support of the event
No Fee-For events open to the general public, sponsored by a non-profit organization that are not for fundraising purposes, where no registration or admission fee is 
charged, no donations or contributions are solicited or where no money exchanges hands.
$100 - For Low Impact events sponsored by a non-profit. A low impact event means any event other than a high impact event.
Regular rates for personnel who may be required to prepare specialized logistic plans in support of the event
Actual costs for consumable supplies, e.g. parking meter signs, garbage bags, etc., used in support of the event
Actual cost for specialized services contracted by the City that are required to support the event
$230 - For High Impact events sponsored by non-profits. A high impact event means a special event meeting two or more of the following criteria: 1) Being held for the 
first time; 2) expected to draw more than 500 participants; 3) held on a recurring basis; 4) requiring the support of 2 or more city departments; 5) following a route with a  
different start and finish; 6) requiring a street closure; or 7) requiring interagency coordination.
$500 – For Low Impact events sponsored by a commercial or for profit business. A low impact event means any event other than a high impact event.
$1,000 – For High Impact events sponsored by a commercial or for profit business. See above for definition of a High Impact event.
Depending on the nature of the special event, applicable fees may include some or all of the following:
Page 10.11
434 of 509

--- page 435 ---
Page 11.1 
Chapter 3.64 
FEES 
Sections: 
3.64.010 
Fees. 
3.64.020 
Penalties & Interest 
3.64.030 
Fees for Code Enforcement 
3.64.010 - FEES.  
Prior to submittal of the annual budget, the City Manager shall submit to the City Council the fees proposed 
for the next fiscal year. The prior year’s fees shall continue if the City Manager does not submit new 
proposed fees. If the proposed fees do not represent a percentage increase exceeding the percentage 
increase for the preceding twelve (12) month period as shown by the San Francisco Bay Area Consumer 
Price Index of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, United States Department of Labor, under the heading All 
Items, or any index substituted by the Department of Labor therefor, the proposed fees shall become 
effective on the following July 1, unless a different date is set forth in the submission, provided however that 
the Council may amend the fees before the effective date. If the proposed fees represent a percentage 
increase exceeding the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index, they must be approved by the 
Council before becoming effective. Notwithstanding the above, the Council may amend any fee at any time. 
(Ord. 1994-12 § 1, 1994; Ord. 1989-8 § 1, 1989; Ord. 1986-26 § 1, 1986). 
3.64.020 - PENALTIES AND INTEREST.  
Any fee imposed by this chapter shall be due and payable within thirty days after the bill is mailed by the 
City. The fees shall be delinquent if not paid within said thirty days. Any person who fails to remit any fee 
within the time required shall pay a penalty of ten percent of the amount due, per month to a maximum of 
three months, plus interest at the rate of 1-1/2 percent per month, or fraction thereof, computed from the 
delinquent date of the fee until and including the date of payment. (Ord. 1989-8 § 1, 1989). 
3.64.030 - FEES FOR CODE ENFORCEMENT. 
(a)
Nuisances. The Council is authorized to adopt fees for administrative costs incurred in the
enforcement of Title 7. No fee shall be charged if a property owner or agent abates the nuisance or
violation within thirty (30) days after first notification of the violation is mailed by the City.
(b)
Other Violations. The City shall be authorized to adopt fees for costs incurred in the enforcement of
Municipal Code violations which result in a requirement for a planning application or building permit, if such
application is made or permit applied for more than thirty days after notification of the violation is mailed.
(Ord. 1990-5 § 4, 1990; Ord. 1989-8 § 1, 1989).
435 of 509

--- page 436 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
A. WASTEWATER CAPACITY CHARGE
1. Residential
Class A represents all residential uses, a biological oxygen demand of 200mg/L, and a suspended solids
measurement of 200mg/L
a.  Single-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$10,399.72
b. Multi-family
i. Studio & 1 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$5,199.34
ii. 2 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$8,666.26
iii. 3+ bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$10,399.72
c. Hotels or motels
Per Room/Apartment
$5,199.34
d. Board or lodging houses
Per Bedroom
$5,199.34
e. Accessory Dwelling Unit
Per Square Foot
$5.20
2. Commercial/Institutional
The capacity charge for commercial/institutional uses is based on water meter size and wastewater class. *see
footnote below for class explanation*
a.  Meter size of up to 3/4 inch
i.  Class B
Per Meter
$10,399.72
ii.  Class C
Per Meter
$11,139.82
iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$12,269.16
b. Meter size of 1 inch
i.  Class B
Per Meter
$17,332.52
ii.  Class C
Per Meter
$18,565.67
iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$20,448.60
c.  Meter size of 1 and 1/2 inch
i.  Class B
Per Meter
$34,665.05
ii.  Class C
Per Meter
$37,132.37
iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$40,897.20
d. Meter size of 2 inches
i.  Class B
Per Meter
$55,463.45
ii.  Class C
Per Meter
$59,410.97
iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$65,435.52
e.  Meter size of 3 inches
i.  Class B
Per Meter
$103,994.11
ii.  Class C
Per Meter
$111,396.08
iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$122,690.56
f.  Meter size of 4 inches
i.  Class B
Per Meter
$173,323.16
ii.  Class C
Per Meter
$185,659.79
iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$204,484.96
g. Meter size of 6 inches
i.  Class B
Per Meter
$346,646.33
ii.  Class C
Per Meter
$371,320.63
iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$408,969.92
h. Meter size of 8 inches
i.  Class B
Per Meter
$554,633.50
ii.  Class C
Per Meter
$594,112.79
iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$654,352.09
3.  Industrial
The capacity charge for industrial uses is based on estimated wastewater flow and strength.
a.  Flow
Per Gallon Per Day
$80.50
b. Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD)
Per Pound Per Day
$1,944.71
c.  Suspended Solids (SS)
Per Pound Per Day
$1,753.51
IMPACT, IN-LIEU, AND LINKAGE FEES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES (subject to annual review)
*Wastewater Class Thresholds
●Class B represents standard strength, a biological oxygen demand of 200 mg/L, and a suspended solids measurement of 200 mg/L 
●Class C represents moderate strength, a biological oxygen demand of 400 mg/L, and a suspended solids measurement of 400 mg/L 
●Class D represents high strength, a biological oxygen demand of 800 mg/L, and a suspended solids measurement of 600 mg/L 
Page 12.1
436 of 509

--- page 437 ---
UNIT
FEE
IMPACT, IN-LIEU, AND LINKAGE FEES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
I.
B. TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE
1. Residential
a.  Single-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$6,867.99
b. Multi-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$3,468.58
2. Commercial and Industrial
a.  Retail
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$27,735.48
b. Office
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$8,366.76
c.  Industrial
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$4,589.64
d. Hotel
Per Room
$4,367.84
e. Institution
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$3,568.50
C.
Per Space
$57,699.90
II.
Each
1.19% of valuation
III.
Per Tree
$740.00
A.
Single Family
$29,598.00
Multi-family 2-4 Units
$27,172.00
Multi-family 5+ Units
$20,476.00
Mobile Homes
$17,564.00
IV. CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE
A. Residential
1. Single-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$4,412.54
2. Multi-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$3,182.51
B. Commercial
1. Retail
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.37
2. Office
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.63
3. Industrial
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.21
4. Hotel
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.13
V. COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEE
(City Council  adopted September 16, 2016 - effective November 16, 2016)
New commercial construction in excess of 5,000 sq. ft.
Exempts public uses such as hospitals, nonprofit and government facilities, churches, schools and child 
care centers. Developers who enter written agreements to pay area standard wages to all construction 
workers on the project are entitled to a 25% reduction of the fee. Additionally, developers may provide 
construction of affordable housing units in lieu of the fee payment.
A. HOTELS
Per Sq. Ft.
$12.46
B. RETAIL, RESTAURANTS, AND SERVICES
Per Sq. Ft.
$6.23
C. OFFICE, RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT USES, AND MEDICAL OFFICES
Per Sq. Ft.
$31.14
VI.
A. In Lieu Fees for Fractional Units
1. Rental
0.1 Housing Unit
$30,788.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$61,577.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$92,365.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$123,153.00
2. Owner
0.1 Housing Unit
$27,354.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$54,708.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$82,062.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$109,416.00
B. In Lieu Fee for Projects Less than 11 Units
1. Rental
5 Unit Project
$153,942.00
6 Unit Project
$184,730.00
7 Unit Project
$215,519.00
8 Unit Project
$246,307.00
9 Unit Project
$277,095.00
10 Unit Project
$307,884.00
2. Owner
5 Unit Project
$136,770.00
6 Unit Project
$164,124.00
7 Unit Project
$191,478.00
8 Unit Project
$218,832.00
9 Unit Project
$246,186.00
10 Unit Project
$273,540.00
CENTRAL PARKING IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT PER SPACE IN-LIEU FEE
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES (subject to annual review) (continued)
PARK AND LANDSCAPE RESOURCES
PARK IN-LIEU FEE / PARK IMPACT FEE FOR RESIDENTIAL PLANNING APPLICATION 
PROJECTS INVOLVING PARCEL MAPS, SUBDIVISION AND OTHER MULTI-FAMILY 
RESIDENTIAL PROJECTS.
Tree Replacement Cost (24" Box Tree)
BELOW MARKET RATE HOUSING FEE
A fee in lieu of constructing affordable housing units onsite per Below Market Rate program:
ART IN PUBLIC PLACE FEE
The fee is applicable to commercial and multi-family residential projects exceeding three (3) million dollars in 
Page 12.2
437 of 509

--- page 438 ---
Finance…………………………………………...………………………...……....….5.1
Information Technology………………………………………………………….....…6.1
Effective July 1, 2020, customers using credit/debit cards to pay for services will be charged a service fee payable to 
the City's merchant service provider at the rate of 2.6%+ in addition to the cost of services. The credit card service fee 
will be reflected as a separate transaction on your credit card statement. As an alternative, checks and money orders 
are acceptable by mail or cash, check, e-check and money orders in person at City facilities.
Public Works…………………………………………………………………............10.1
Penalties & Interest……………………………………………………………...…....11.1
Impact, In-lieu, and Linkage Fees…………………………………………....…...…..12.1
CITY OF SAN MATEO
COMPREHENSIVE FEE SCHEDULE
Table of Contents
Parks & Recreation…………………………………………………………….........…8.1
Police……………………………………………………………………….…….....…9.1
Library……………………………………………………………………………........7.1
City Clerk's………………………………………………………………………….....1.1
Community Development
Building…………………...…………..……..…...………………..…....2.1
Code Enforcement………………………………………...………….....3.1
Planning………………...…………..………..…...……………...….…..4.1
438 of 509

--- page 439 ---
UNIT
FEE
I. ELECTION DOCUMENT COPIES
Per Page
$0.10
II. PHOTOCOPIES
Per Page
$0.15
III. OUTSIDE SERVICES
Reproductions not performed by City (maps, photos, etc.).
Per Reproduction
Actual Costs
IV. CERTIFICATIONS
Each
$1.50
V. APPEALS to the City Council of a decision by the Planning
Commission, Community Relations Commission, or Public
Works Commission.
Each Appeal
$519.00 $500.00
VI. INITIATIVE FILING FEE
Each
$200.00
CITY CLERK
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
439 of 509

--- page 440 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
I.
A.
% of Building Permit Fee
70%
B.
% of Building Permit Fee
75%
C.
% of Building Permit Fee
65%
II.
A.
Valuation
$272.59 $262.61
Valuation
$272.59 $262.61
(for 1st $500) $12.84 for each add'l $100 or fraction 
thereof
Valuation
$472.51 $455.21
(for 1st $2,000) $22.33 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,005.64 $968.82
(for 1st $25,000) $28.48 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,744.70 $1,680.83
(for 1st $50,000) $21.94 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$2,883.62 $2,778.05
(for 1st $100,000) $14.16 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$5,088.77 $4,902.48
(for 1st $250,000) $7.75 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$7,100.03 $6,840.11
(for 1st $500,000) $6.96 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$10,710.67 $10,318.56
(for 1st $1,000,000) $3.48 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
$500,001 to $1,000,000
$250,001.00 - $500,000
$1,000,001 and Over
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
BUILDING PLAN REVIEW FEES
$1.00 - $500.00
$2,001.00 - $25,000.00
$50,001.00 - $100,000.00
$100,001.00 - $250,000.00
BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES
$25,001.00 - $50,000.00
SINGLE FAMILY/DUPLEX RESIDENTIAL PLAN 
REVIEW
COMMERCIAL BUILDING PLAN REVIEW
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING PLAN 
REVIEW
SINGLE FAMILY/DUPLEX RESIDENTIAL 
PERMIT AND INSPECTION
$501.00 - $2,000.00
440 of 509

--- page 441 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
II.
B.
Valuation
$272.59 $262.61
Valuation
$272.59 $262.61
(for 1st $500) $12.84 for each add'l $100 or fraction 
thereof
Valuation
$472.51 $455.21
(for 1st $2,000) $30.96 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,211.58 $1,167.23
(for 1st $25,000) $25.68 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,877.98 $1,809.23
(for 1st $50,000) $29.65 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$3,416.74 $3,291.66
(for 1st $100,000) $8.87 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$7,100.03 $6,840.11
(for 1st $500,000)  $10.55 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$12,576.58 $12,116.17
(for 1st $1,00,000)  $1.64 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$19,385.93 $18,676.23
(for 1st $5,000,000) $2.60 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$32,859.28 $31,656.34
(for 1st $10,000,000) $1.39 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$54,474.77 $52,480.51
(for 1st $25,000,000) $1.04 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$81,421.47 $78,440.72
(for 1st $50,000,000) $1.04 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$108,368.17 $104,400.93
(for 1st $75,000,000) $0.52 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
$50,000.01 - $100,000.00
$100,000.01 - $500,000.00
$500,000.01 - $1,000,000.00
$1,000,000.01 - $5,000,000.00
$5,000,000.01 - $10,000,000.00
COMMERCIAL BUILDING PERMIT AND 
INSPECTION
$501.00 - $2,000.00
$2,001.00 - $25,000.00
$1.00 - $500.00
$25,000.01 - $50,000.00
BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES 
(continued)
$10,000,000.01 - $25,000,000.00
$25,000,000.01 - $50,000,000.00
$50,000,000.01 - $75,000,000.00
$75,000,000.01 and Over
441 of 509

--- page 442 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
II.
C.
Valuation
$272.59 $262.61
Valuation
$272.59 $262.61
(for 1st $500) $12.84 for each add'l $100 or fraction 
thereof
Valuation
$472.51 $455.21
(for 1st $2,000) $30.96 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,211.58 $1,167.23
(for 1st $25,000) $25.68 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,877.98 $1,809.23
(for 1st $50,000) $29.65 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$3,416.74 $3,291.66
(for 1st $100,000) $8.87 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$7,100.03 $6,840.11
(for 1st $500,000)  $10.55 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$12,576.58 $12,116.17
(for 1st $1,00,000)  $3.57 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$27,382.73 $26,380.28
(for 1st $5,000,000) $5.16 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$54,184.08 $52,200.46
(for 1st $10,000,000) $1.73 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$81,130.78 $78,160.67
(for 1st $25,000,000) $1.55 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$121,405.48 $116,960.96
(for 1st $50,000,000) $1.04 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$148,352.17 $142,921.17
(for 1st $75,000,000) $0.52 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
NOTE: Valuation shall be determined based upon the International Code Council's most recently published Building Valuation Table with a regional cost 
modifier of 2.93. The project valuation will be inclusive of all trades - Building, Electrical, Mechanical, and Plumbing. The Building Official may adjust 
the plan checking/permit fee for an individual project when costs to the City are not congruent with this fee schedule.
BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES 
(continued)
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 
PERMT AND INSPECTION
$1.00 - $500.00
$501.00 - $2,000.00
$2,001.00 - $25,000.00
$25,000.01 - $50,000.00
$50,000.01 - $100,000.00
$100,000.01 - $500,000.00
$500,000.01 - $1,000,000.00
$1,000,000.01 - $5,000,000.00
$5,000,000.01 - $10,000,000.00
$10,000,000.01 - $25,000,000.00
$25,000,000.01 - $50,000,000.00
$50,000,000.01 - $75,000,000.00
$75,000,000.01 and Over
442 of 509

--- page 443 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
III.
A.
1.
Commercial and Multi-Residential
0 -10,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
10,001-35,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
35,001-75,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
75,001-120,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
Over 120,000 Square Feet
Per Hour
*See Note Below
2.
Single Family and Duplex Plan Review
0-10,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
B.
Fee
0.34% of Valuation
C.
Hourly Rate
Please refer to Building, Fire and Planning Hourly 
Rate
D.
Fee / Actual Cost
 Actual Cost for all City Departments for additional 
identical and mirror image plan checks where 
applicable codes have not changed. 
E.
a. Park and Recreation Tax on Residential 
Building Permits
 Per $100 Valuation on 
Building Permit App. 
$0.31 $0.30
a. Consultants for specialized plan checking and
inspection services or to expedite plan checking 
and inspection services
Fee is per Consultant's rate
b. Reimburse cost of staff or consultant time spent
in plan check or inspection services.  Park Plan
Check and Inspection Services on Building 
Permits. Fee to be collected at time of Building 
Permit application. After payment of fees,
Permittee may apply for an exemption for projects 
having no Park Plan Check or Inspection
Requirements.
Building Valuation on Those 
Building Permits Whose 
Valuation is Over $5,000
0.05%
F.
Construction Valuation of 
All Projects
0.59% of valuation
G.
Fee
 13 mills/$1,000 valuation
Residential (Minimum $0.50)
28 mills/$1,000 valuation
Non-Residential. (Minimum $0.50) 
H.
Fee
 $1/$25,000 valuation 
I.
Percentage
0.15% of valuation
J.
All Required Permits
 Minimum of 100% of all building permit fees 
ADDITIONAL REQUIRED PLAN REVIEW & 
BUILDING PERMIT FEES
FIRE PLAN CHECK
*These fees are collected on behalf of the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department. The current fee charged may be higher than those listed. Please see 
the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department's fee schedule for current fees that will be collected by the City of San Mateo on behalf of San Mateo 
Consolidated Fire Department at: smcfire.org/i-want-to
PLANNING SUPPORT FEE (PLAN 
CHECK/INSPECTION)
(Fee covers initial review and 2 resubmittals)  The fee 
will be charged for all projects which require a 
planning application, for new single-family homes and 
duplexes, and for any other permit application that 
requires review by the Planning  Division.
ADDITIONAL PLAN REVIEW FEES FOR 
PROJECTS REVIEWED 4TH REVIEW AND 
BEYOND
PLAN CHECK FEES FOR IDENTICAL AND 
MIRROR IMAGE PLANS
PARKS AND RECREATION FEES
1. Park and Landscape Resources
2. Development Project Review Fee
GENERAL PLAN MAINTENANCE FEE
STATE TAX
Strong motion instrumentation and seismic hazard 
mapping (Fee set by State of California).
BUILDING STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION 
SPECIAL REVOLVING FUND
TECHNOLOGY FEE
CONSTRUCTION WITHOUT A PERMIT
Penalty incurred when any construction is performed 
without a permit.
443 of 509

--- page 444 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
IV.
A.
Per Hr (Min. 2 Hours)
$266.77 $257.00
B.
Per Hr (Min. 1 Hour)
$266.77 $257.00
C.
Per Hr
(Min. 1/2 Hour)
$278.18 $268.00
D.
Per Reactivation
$166.08 $160.00
E.
Per Hour
$230.44 $222.00
F.
Each
$608.27 $586.00
G.
Each
$856.35 $825.00
H.
$205.52 $198.00
I.
1. Single Family Dwellings/Duplex's
Each
$508.62 $490.00
2. Multi-Family, Mixed Use/Commercial
0-5,000 Sq Ft
Each
$508.62 $490.00
Over 5,000 Sq Ft
Each
$908.25 $875.00
J.
1. Bathroom or Kitchen Remodels - Per Remodel
Each Combination Permit
$678.85 $654.00
K.
Each
$405.86 $391.00
L.
Each
$606.19 $584.00
M.
Each
$611.38 $589.00
N.
Each
$478.52 $461.00
O.
Each
$2,671.29 $2,573.50
Each
$1,916.15 $1,846.00
P.
Each
$1,371.72 $1,321.50
MISC. INSPECTIONS AND FEES
Applicable to building, plumbing, electrical and mechanical 
permits.
INSPECTIONS OUTSIDE OF NORMAL BUINESS 
HOURS 
REINSPECTION FEE
PLAN REVIEW REQUIRED BY CHANGES, 
ADDITIONS OR REVISIONS TO APPROVED 
PLANS, OR MORE THAN TWO RECHECKS
REACTIVIATION FEE FOR EXPIRED PERMITS 
(Use 50% of original permit fee if permit fee is less 
than the reactivation fee)
APPLICATION FOR DEMOLITION OF 
RESIDENTIAL UNITS WHICH HAVE BEEN 
DECLARED A PUBLIC NUISANCE OR WHICH 
ARE BEING DEMOLISHED ON APPROVAL OF 
THE BUILDING OFFICIAL UNDER SECTION 
23.06.100.
APPLICATION FOR ALTERNATE MATERIALS 
AND CODE INTERPRETATIONS
PERMITS FOR SMALL ANIMAL & FOWL
RE-ROOF'S
COMBINATION BUILDING, PLUMBING, 
ELECTRICAL, AND MECHANICAL PERMITS 
FOR MINOR RESIDENTIAL REMODELS:
HARDSHIP WAIVER FOR DISABLED ACCESS 
REQUIREMENTS
WINDOW REPLACEMENTS FOR SINGLE 
FAMILY AND DUPLEX (same location, same size, 5 
maximum)
WINDOW REPLACEMENTS FOR SINGLE 
FAMILY AND DUPLEX (same location, same size, 
more than 5)
CALIFORNIA'S EARTHQUAKE BRACE AND 
BOLT RETROFIT PROGRAM
ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS FOR SFR AND 
DUPLEX
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
Remodel
New Construction
444 of 509

--- page 445 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
IV.
Q.
1. Single Family Dwellings
Each Combination Permit
$450.00 
2. Multi-family Buildings
Up to 15 kW 
Each
$450.00 
16 kW and up
Each
$450.00 
+ $15.00 for each additional kW
3. Commercial Buildings
Up to 50 kW
Each
$1,000.00 
51 kW to 250 kW
Each
$1,000.00 
+ $7.00 for each additional kW up to 250 kW
251 kW and up
Each
$2,400.00 
+ $5.00 for each additional kW over 250 kW
R.
1. Single Family Dwellings
Each Combination Permit
$450.00 
2. Multi-family Buildings
Up to 15 kW 
Each
$450.00 
16 kW and up
Each
$450.00 
+ $15.00 for each additional kW
3. Commercial Buildings
Up to 30 kWth
Each
$1,000.00 
31 kWth to 260 kWth
Each
$1,000.00 
+ $7.00 for each additional kWth up to 260 kWth
261 kWth and up
Each
$2,610.00 
+ $5.00 for each additional kWth over 260 kWth
S.
1. Single Family Dwellings & Duplexes
Each
$201.37 $194.00
2. Multi-Family/Commercial (Level I/II)
1-6 Stations
Each
$566.75 $546.00
7+ Stations
Each
$1,066.03 $1,027.00
Multi-Family/Commercial (Level III)
1-6 Stations
Each
$925.90 $892.00
7+ Stations
Each
$1,381.58 $1,331.00
T.
Each
$454.64 $438.00
V.
ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES
A.
RESIDENTIAL ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$272.99 $263.00
B.
COMMERCIAL ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$1,175.02 $1,132.00
C.
Sq Ft.
$0.23 $0.22
D.
Each
$871.92 $840.00
TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS: 
ELECTRICAL WORK ONLY
ELECTRICAL REWIRING FOR SFR AND 
DUPLEX
MISC. INSPECTIONS AND FEES (continued)
Applicable to building, plumbing, electrical and 
mechanical permits.
ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (Fee set by
State of California AB-1414; sunsets 1/1/2025)
SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEMS (Fee set by State of 
California AB-1414; sunsets 1/1/2025)
ELECTRICAL VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS
Page 2.6
445 of 509

--- page 446 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
VI. MECHANICAL PERMIT FEES
A.
RESIDENTIAL MECHANICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$272.99 $263.00
B.
COMMERCIAL MECHANICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$908.25 $875.00
C.
Sq Ft.
$0.23 $0.22
D.
Each
$375.76 $362.00
E.
Each
$781.61 $753.00
VII. PLUMBING PERMIT FEES
A.
RESIDENTIAL PLUMBING PERMIT FEE
Each 
$272.99 $263.00
B.
COMMERCIAL PLUMBING PERMIT FEE
Each 
$908.25 $875.00
C.
Sq Ft.
$0.23 $0.22
D.
TANKLESS WATER HEATER
Each 
$478.52 $461.00
E.
 Each 
$871.92 $840.00
VIII. SIGN PERMIT FEES**
Permit fee determined by Commercial Valuation 
Table
Each 
$205.52 $198.00
IX. CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE
Per Sq. Ft. 
A.
Per Dwelling Unit
$4,412.54 $4,251.00
Per Dwelling Unit
$3,182.51 $3,066.00
B.
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.37 $0.36
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.63 $0.61
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.21 $0.20
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.13
X.
A.
Per Sq. Ft. 
$12.46 $11.35
B.
Per Sq. Ft. 
$6.23 $5.68
C.
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$31.14 $28.36
XI.
 Each 
1.19% of valuation
HVAC INSTALLATIONS (RELOCATIONS AND 
NEW INSTALLATIONS FOR SFR AND DUPLEX)
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS: 
PLUMBING WORK ONLY
All permanent signs
Temporary Banner (30-day)
**PENALTY: When a sign permit is required and a sign is installed prior to obtaining a permit, a double fee shall be charged.
HOTELS
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS: 
MECHANICAL WORK ONLY
RETAIL, RESTAURANTS, AND SERVICES
OFFICE, RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT USES, 
AND MEDICAL OFFICES
ART IN PUBLIC PLACE FEE
The fee is applicable to commercial and multi-family 
residential projects exceeding three (3) million dollars in 
building permit valuation.
2. Multi-family
3. Industrial
4. Hotel
COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEE
(City Council adopted September 16, 2016 - effective 
November 16, 2016)
New commercial construction in excess of 5,000 
Exempts public uses such as hospitals, nonprofit and 
government facilities, churches, schools and child care 
centers. Developers who enter written agreements to pay 
area standard wages to all construction workers on the 
project are entitled to a 25% reduction of the fee. 
Additionally, developers may provide construction of 
affordable housing units in lieu of the fee payment.
HVAC INSTALLATIONS (REPLACEMENT AT 
SAME LOCATION FOR SFR AND DUPLEX)
REPIPE FOR WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS FOR 
SFR AND DUPLEX
Residential
1. Single-family
2. Office
1. Retail
Commercial
446 of 509

--- page 447 ---
UNIT
I.
1.
First Citation
$100.00
If not Abated, Second Citation
$200.00
If not Abated, Third Citation
$500.00
II.
First Citation
$200.00
If not Abated, Second Citation
$300.00
If not Abated, Third Citation
$500.00
III.
Each Case
Actual Cost *
IV.
Each Appeal
$519.00 $500.00
V.
Each Inspection
$100.00
ABATEMENT ORDER VIOLATION CORRECTION RE-INSPECTION 
FEE
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
CODE ENFORCEMENT
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
 FEE 
NUISANCE ABATEMENT FEES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE SMMC 
WHICH ARE SUBJECT TO ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION PER 
SMMC 1.10.
Violations of the SMMC Administrative Citation Ordinance which have 
been abated within 10 days of service and verified by the Code 
Enforcement Division have a reduced fee.
NUISANCE ABATEMENT FEES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE SAME 
SMMC SECTION WITHIN 12 MONTHS OF INITIAL CITATION
VIOLATIONS OF THE SMMC REQUIRING 1) ORDER OF 
ABATEMENT, 2) AN INSPECTION OF SEIZURE WARRANT, 3) A 
POSTING OF AN ORDER DESIGNATING THE PROPERTY AS 
UNSAGE TO OCCUPY, 4) THE COMMENCEMENT OF THE CIVIL 
LITIGATION PROCEEDINGS OR 5) SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF 
*Actual Cost includes all costs of abatement, including, but not limited to: code 
enforcement staff, and associated indirect costs, such as labor, equipment, 
private contractor, materials, materials storage, and all other costs reasonable 
and necessary to abate the nuisance.
APPEAL OF A DECISION OR ORDER TO ABATE
Page 3.1
447 of 509

--- page 448 ---
CHARGE TYPE
FEE OR INITIAL DEPOSIT
I.
PLANNING APPLICATIONS
A. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- ZONING ADMINISTRATOR 
DECISION (SINGLE FAMILY ONLY OR CERTIFICATE OF 
PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY - ALCOHOLIC 
BEVERAGES)
Initial Deposit
$4,000.00
B. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- ZONING ADMINISTRATOR 
DECISION (OTHER THAN SINGLE FAMILY OR PCNs)
Initial Deposit
$6,000.00
C. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- PLANNING COMMISSION 
DECISION - IF NO PRE-APPLICATION REQUIRED
Initial Deposit
$1,000.00
D. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- PLANNING COMMISSION 
DECISION - IF PRE-APPLICATION REQUIRED
Initial Deposit
$50,000.00
E. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- PLANNING COMMISSION & 
CITY COUNCIL DECISION 
Initial Deposit
$100,000.00
F. FENCE EXCEPTION SPAR PLANNING APPLICATION
Initial Deposit
$2,000.00
G. SPECIAL USE PERMIT - DAY CARE FACILITIES
Flat fee
$2,000.00
H. ANNUAL REVIEW OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
Initial Deposit
$4,500.00
I.
DESIGN REVIEW BY CONSULTING ARCHITECT (required for 
projects with 6+ units, 10,000+ SF non-residential; or other projects 
as determined by City Resolution)
Initial Deposit
$5,000.00
J.
LARGE PROJECT PRE-APPLICATION
Initial Deposit
$25,000.00
K. INFORMATIONAL NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING (PRE-
APPLICATION) PUBLIC NOTICE LIST PREPARATION
Flat Fee
$479.00
L. MODIFICATIONS OF APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATIONS-
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR DECISION
Initial Deposit
$3,000.00
M. MODIFICATIONS OF APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATIONS-
PLANNING COMMISSION DECISION
Initial Deposit
$10,000.00
II.
ENVIRONMENTAL CLEARANCE (CEQA) PROCESSING
A. CATEGORICAL OR STATUTORY EXEMPTION (Excluding 
Single Family and PCNs)
Initial Deposit
$500.00
B. INITIAL STUDY/NEGATIVE DECLARATION
Initial Deposit
$5,000.00
C. INITIAL STUDY/EIR
Initial Deposit
$10,000.00
D. MANDATED FEDERAL, STATE OR COUNTY FEES (e.g., Fish 
& Game CEQA Fee; Fish & Game Code §711.4; Negative 
Declaration; EIR)
As Mandated by State
N/A
III. CITY STAFF TIME
Planning Staff
Hourly Rate
$275.00
All City departments reviewing a planning application.
Hourly Rate
Actual Cost
IV. MONITORING OF REQUIRED MITIGATION MEASURE
Initial Deposit for 
Determined for each project.
V.
INVESTIGATION
FEE for properties with code violations before or after planning 
approval.
Hourly Rate
$275.00
VI. RESEARCH FEE
A. RETRIEVAL OF OFF-SITE PLANNING APPLICATION 
Flat Fee
$170.00
B. RESEARCH REQUIRING EXTENSIVE STAFF TIME
Hourly Rate
$275.00
C. POST PLANNING APPLICATION PROJECT CONSULTATION
Hourly Rate
$275.00
VII. APPEALS
A. APPEAL FEE - ALL PLANNING APPLICATIONS
Flat Fee
$519.00 $500.00
VIII. LANDSCAPE UNIT IN-LIEU FEES
Per Landscape Unit
$336.86 $324.53
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PLANNING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 4.1
448 of 509

--- page 449 ---
CHARGE TYPE
FEE OR INITIAL DEPOSIT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PLANNING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
IX. SUBORDINATION PROCESSING FEE
Applies to requests to allow City Housing Program loans to 
subordinate to new mortgage lenders in conjunction with refinances.
Per Loan
$250.00
X.
A. In Lieu Fees for Fractional Units
1. Rental
0.1 Housing Unit
$30,788.00 $27,352.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$61,577.00 $54,704.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$92,365.00 $82,056.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$123,153.00 $109,408.00
2. Owner
0.1 Housing Unit
$27,354.00 $23,737.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$54,708.00 $47,473.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$82,062.00 $71,210.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$109,416.00 $94,947.00
B. In Lieu Fee for Projects Less than 11 Units
1. Rental
5 Unit Project
$153,942.00 $136,760.00
6 Unit Project
$184,730.00 $164,112.00
7 Unit Project
$215,519.00 $191,464.00
8 Unit Project
$246,307.00 $218,816.00
9 Unit Project
$277,095.00 $246,168.00
10 Unit Project
$307,884.00 $273,520.00
2. Owner
5 Unit Project
$136,770.00 $118,683.00
6 Unit Project
$164,124.00 $142,420.00
7 Unit Project
$191,478.00 $166,156.00
8 Unit Project
$218,832.00 $189,893.00
9 Unit Project
$246,186.00 $213,630.00
10 Unit Project
$273,540.00 $237,366.00
XI. POLICIES RE: PLANNING FEES
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
H.
The cost for staff time expended by all city staff pursuant to a planning application shall be billed to the project account at the 
hourly rate in section III.
Under extenuating circumstances, the Community Development Director has the authority to set a deposit amount below the 
amount indicated in the fee schedule.
"Planning applications" include: site plan and architectural review; special use permit; temporary use permit; variance; site 
development permit; subdivision and parcel maps; reclassification; planned development; general plan amendment; specific plan 
amendment; code amendments regarding land use regulation; development agreements, downtown economic development permit;  
planned signing districts and freestanding signs over 8 feet in commercial districts, single family dwelling design review (SFDDR), 
mills act contract, historic building survey amendment,  historic building demolition permit and other planning applications as set 
forth in Chapter 27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
BELOW MARKET RATE HOUSING FEE
A fee in lieu of constructing affordable housing units onsite per Below 
Market Rate program:
If the cost of the staff time spent on the application(s) is less than the amount of the deposit, the balance shall be refunded to the 
applicant.
If at any time before action is taken on an application, more than 70% of the deposit has been expended on the application, the 
applicant shall be required to pay an additional deposit.
No public hearing on a planning application shall be held unless all deposits requested have been fully paid. No application by an 
applicant shall be accepted as complete pursuant to title 27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code if that applicant has failed to pay 
amounts due and payable for another planning application.
The applicant is responsible for paying the costs of staff and consultant time incurred pursuant to any appeal.
The applicant shall pay the actual cost of any consultant services required to process a planning application including the 
environmental (CEQA) clearance processing.
449 of 509

--- page 450 ---
UNIT
FEE
I. BUSINESS LICENSE LISTING
Each Qtr.
$32.00
II. RETURNED CHECK PROCESSING CHARGE
(Non-sufficient fund checks and other issues)
Each
$25.00
III. STATE MANDATED DISABILITY ACCESS FEE (SB 1186)
On each Business Tax application and renewal
Each
$4.00
IV. NEW BUSINESS - FIRE INSPECTION
Each
See Note Below* 
V. COLLECTION REFERRAL CHARGE
Each
$25.00
FINANCE
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
*This fee is collected on behalf of the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department. Please see the San Mateo Consolidated Fire
Department's fee schedule for current fees that will be collected by the City of San Mateo on behalf of San Mateo Consolidated
Fire Department at: smcfire.org/i-want-to
450 of 509

--- page 451 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
A. GIS SERVICES
Hour
$91.00
Additional Time (Hourly)
$91.00
B. HARDCOPY PLOTS OF CITY MAPS
Each
$16.75
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
GIS MAPPING / ELECTRONIC DATA FEES
451 of 509

--- page 452 ---
UNIT
FEE
I. FINES
A. OVERDUE MATERIAL
1. Adult  Materials
Per Day & Per Item
$0.25
2. Juvenile Materials
Per Day & Per Item
$0.15
**No overdue fines for borrowers ages 19 & under
3. Technology Lending Devices
Per Day & Per Item
$1.00
a. Cleaning Fee for Devices
Per Item
$10.00
B. OVERDUE MAXIMUM FINE
1. Adult
Per Item
$8.00
2. Juvenile
Per Item
$4.00
C. LINK + SERVICE
1. Overdue materials
Per Day & Per Item
$1.00
2. Overdue maximum fine
Per Item
$15.00
3. Replacement charges
Per Item
$115.00
II. FEES
A.
Per Item
Price of material
+ processing fee of $5.00
B. COPY CHARGES
1. Photocopy machine
a. Black/white copies
Per Copy
$0.15
2. Computer printer copy
a. Black/white copies
Per Page After 3 Pages
$0.15
b. Microform reader-printer
Per Copy
$0.15
c. Color computer printer copy
Per Copy
$0.30
C. COMMUNITY MEETING ROOMS, MAIN LIBRARY
1. Oak Room and courtyard
a. Non profit/not for profit (business hours)
$195.00 $190.00 for 1st 4 hours
+ $30 each additional hour
b. Non profit/not for profit (after hours)
Per Hour
$160.00 $155.00
c. Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$130.00 $120.00
Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$195.00 $185.00
d. Non-Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$195.00 $185.00
Non-Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$255.00 $250.00
e. San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$195.00 $185.00
San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$290.00 $280.00
f. Non San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$290.00 $280.00
Non San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$385.00 $370.00
g. Music recitals
Per Use (Up to 3 Hours)
$145.00 $140.00
h. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
$350.00
2. Laurel and Cedar Rooms
a. Non profit/not for profit (business hours)
$105.00 for 1st 4 hours
+ $20 $15 each additional hour
b. Non profit/not for profit (after hours)
Per Hour
$95.00 $90.00
c. Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$95.00 $90.00
Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$195.00 $185.00
d. Non-Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$130.00 $120.00
Non-Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$225.00 $215.00
e. San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$195.00 $185.00
San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$290.00 $280.00
f. Non San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$290.00 $280.00
Non San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$385.00 $370.00
g. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
$255.00
REPLACEMENT CHARGE FOR EACH ITEM LOST OR 
DAMAGED
LIBRARY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
452 of 509

--- page 453 ---
UNIT
FEE
LIBRARY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
II. FEES (continued)
3. Library computer training room
a. Non profit/not for profit Use of: 
1 -10 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$150.00 $145.00 per every 4 hrs
11 - 20 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$190.00 per every 4 hrs
21 – 26 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$245.00 per every 4 hrs
b. Resident or Non-Resident Use of: 
1 -10 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$200.00 $195.00 per every 4 hrs
11 - 20 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$265.00 $255.00 per every 4 hrs
21 – 26 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$335.00 $330.00 per every 4 hrs
c. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
$500.00
d. A/V Technician Use of:
1 - 10 computers
Per Use
$40.00 $35.00
11 - 20 computers
Per Use
$75.00
21 – 26 computers
Per Use
$115.00 $110.00
4. Library – Other Areas
a. Other Library areas – fees to be determined on a case-by-case 
basis by City Librarian or designee
Per Hour/Per Area
Up to $385.00 $375.00
b. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
Up to $500.00
5. Miscellaneous Meeting Room Fees
a. A/V Technician
Per Use
$40.00 $35.00
A/V Technician – special projects
Per Hour
$60.00 $55.00
b. Portable Stage rental: 
Single stage (8’x6’x16”)
Per Use
$160.00 $155.00
Double stage (16’x6’x16”)
Per Use
$225.00 $215.00
c. Conference Phone rental
Per Use
$40.00 $35.00
d. Piano tuning (special request)
Each
$200.00
D. COMPUTER FILES STORAGE DEVICES
1. USB flash drive
Each
$15.00
E. MATERIAL RECOVERY FEE
Per Account
$10.00
F. LIBRARY LOGO REUSABLE TOTE BAGS
Each
$2.50 $25.00
G. PASSPORT PROCESSING SERVICES
1. Adult Passport Book & Card
Each
$195.00 $175.00
2. Adult Passport Book
Each
$165.00 $145.00
3. Adult Passport Card
Each
$65.00
4. Minor Passport Book & Card
Each
$150.00 $130.00
5. Minor Passport Book
Each
$135.00 $115.00
6. Minor Passport Card
Each
$50.00
7. Expedite Fee Per Passport
Each
$60.00
8. Express Service to Processing Center
a. USPS Express Mail (up to 8 oz.)
Per Mailing Unit
Current postal rate
H.
1. One-time use fee per digital file for any medium
a. Personal/non profit use
Each
$20.00
b. For profit/commercial use
Each
$40.00
III. RESEARCH SERVICE
A. OBITUARY SEARCH SERVICE
Each
$20.00
Search for Non-San
Mateo County residents
USE FEES FOR PHOTOGRAPHS FROM DIGITAL ARCHIVES 
453 of 509

--- page 454 ---









PARKS AND RECREATION
RECREATION COST RECOVERY AND PRICING POLICY*
The following shall serve as the policy guidance for establishing a Recreation Activities Cost Recovery Plan, developing annual activity budgets, and 
establishing fees to be charged for recreation activities. The specific elements of this policy are that:
The Park and Recreation Cost Recovery and Pricing Model shall be used.
In recognition of the wide variety of service values and revenue generating potentials of various activities, specific cost recovery thresholds shall be 
established for each recreation activity area at the most specific programming level that is administratively practical.
The thresholds shall include both minimum and target levels of cost recovery.
Strategies for achieving the minimum and target thresholds shall be established by staff for each activity area. These strategies may include 
immediate or gradual action depending upon the best interests of maintaining a strong program, achieving the target within a reasonable time period 
and current fiscal conditions.
Activity areas unable to meet their minimum threshold after these strategies have been applied shall be reviewed by the Park and Recreation 
Commission for consideration of recommending appropriate action: reduce costs; reduce cost recovery target; eliminate activity.
Activities that have achieved or exceeded their target threshold shall be evaluated to determine if the target can/should be increased.
 The Cost Recovery Plan shall, where appropriate, also include specific other fee considerations (e.g. benchmarking to a specific competitor) that 
may supersede cost recovery target considerations.
Once a Cost Recovery Plan is established, and within that context, staff shall have the authority to set and adjust fees, except that no fee increase 
shall exceed 20% within a 1-year period without the review of the Park and Recreation Commission and approval of the City Council.
As part of the budgetary process, the Park and Recreation Commission shall review the Cost Recovery Plan and the performance of each activity 
compared to the plan and make any recommendations for changes to the plan.
454 of 509

--- page 455 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
Operating Indirect Overhead (Op IOH): Division level and shared costs, such as departmental management, brochure, printing, 
photocopying, training, accounting support, technology, credit card discount costs, administrative office clerical support, computer, 
and recreation equipment sinking fund charges
Facility Indirect Overhead (Fac IOH): Calculated charges for the Public Works Building Maintenance for on-going maintenance 
and repairs (e.g. plumbing, electrical, mechanical, carpentry, painting).
Recreation Cost Tier Definitions
Direct: The specific “go-away” costs at the course or activity level. These include leaders, instructors and materials or services (e.g. 
transportation) specific to the course or activity.
Program Direct Overhead (DOH): Direct supervision of the program, and minor miscellaneous items such as supervisor mileage.
Facility Overhead (FOH): The combination of facility direct costs (the day-to-day costs to keep the building open- receptionist, 
custodial services, custodial products, utilities) and facility direct overhead (primarily facility supervision).
455 of 509

--- page 456 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
MINIMUM
Direct
Direct
75% Direct
Direct
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
MINIMUM
Direct
50% of Direct
100% Subsidy
Direct
Direct
Direct
Direct
Direct
Direct
Summer Flex Camps
Swimming Lessons
King Center Teen Programs
King Center Drop-In
Senior Services Link
Group 2- Composed of core programs for youth and seniors, with service values as higher consideration. Typical thresholds ranges: 
ACTIVITY
Children's Services Center Based 
King Center Children's Programs
Youth Art
Youth Gymnastics
Teen Dances
Senior Center Programs
Senior Center Special Events
Children's Services Special 
Youth Dance/Dance Shows
RECREATION PROGRAMS COST RECOVERY PLAN - TABLE OF TARGETS
Group 1- Highest service value consideration- composed of core youth programs. Typical thresholds ranges: Minimum- From 100% 
subsidy to direct cost recovery. Target- From 100% subsidy through Direct Overhead (DOH).
Recreation Swim
Building Blocks
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
Benchmark fees to bottom end of Peninsula cities
Benchmark fees to mid-point of Peninsula cities
ACTIVITY
TARGET
Through FOH
Through DOH
Direct
Through DOH
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
Benchmark fees to mid-point of Peninsula cities.
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
TARGET
Direct +20%
Direct
100% Subsidy
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Direct
Direct
Through DOH
456 of 509

--- page 457 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
MINIMUM
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Direct + additional 
required office staffing
Through DOH
67% of food costs
MINIMUM
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
NOTE:
*
Adult Music/Drama
Adult Dance
Senior Lunch
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
Fees established through the Recreation Cost Recovery and Pricing Policy shall be collected at the time of course registration, with 
certain exceptions. Prior to completion of a course, patrons may withdraw from a course and receive a refund. Refunds may be returned 
immediately or left on account with the Recreation Division for two years. After two years, all credits left on account by patrons that 
have not participated in Division activities for two years or more are donated to the Recreation Fee Assistance Program.
Does not include special non-general fund revenues or expenses from grants, trust, etc.
TARGET
Youth Sports Camps
Miscellaneous Athletic Activities
Beresford Kids Club
Through FOH
Through FOH
RECREATION PROGRAMS COST RECOVERY PLAN - TABLE OF TARGETS (continued)
Group 3- Composed primarily of adult core, and youth additional typical programs, in which both service and cost recovery values 
are of strong consideration. Typical thresholds ranges: Minimum- Through Direct Overhead (DOH). Target- Through Facility 
Overhead (FOH)
ACTIVITY
Youth Music/Drama
Through FOH
Benchmark fees to San Mateo Foster City School 
Through FOH
Benchmark fees to less than top of market.
Fees less than top of market.
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Specialized Aquatics Programs
Adult Swimfit
Tennis
Adult Sports Leagues
Adult Arts and Crafts
Martial Arts
Through Operating Indirect 
Overhead
Adult Fitness
Youth Fitness
Golf Lessons
Ice Skating
Youth Leisure Education
Adults Leisure Education
Full Cost Recovery
Through FOH
Through FOH
Group 4- Composed primarily of specialty activities, with cost recovery considerations of highest consideration among the 4 groups. 
Typical thresholds ranges: Minimum- Through Direct Overhead (DOH). Target- range of from through Facility Overhead (FOH) to 
full recovery.
ACTIVITY
Through Operating Indirect 
TARGET
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
Through FOH
Through FOH
Direct
457 of 509

--- page 458 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
 UNIT 
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/221
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/232
I.
FACILITY RENTAL FEES
A.
Beresford
Shelter
Per Use
$200.00
$220.00
Area #1
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Area #2
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Area #3
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Bocce Court Tables
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Central
Entire Area 
Per Use
$425.00
$425.00
Area 1
Per Use
$180.00
$186.00
Area 2
Per Use
$85.00
$88.00
Area 3
Per Use
$85.00
$88.00
Area 4 
Per Use
$85.00
$88.00
Harborview Park
Per Use
$85.00
$88.00
Indian Springs Park
Per Use
$85.00
$88.00
Joinville
Entire facility
Per Use
$205.00
$210.00
Area 1
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Area 2
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Area 3
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
King
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Lakeshore 
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Laurelwood 
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Los Prados 
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Paddock Park
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Parkside Aquatic
Per Use
$65.00
$67.00
Ryder Park
Area 1
Per Use
$85.00
$88.00
Area 2
Per Use
$85.00
$88.00
Entire Facility 
Per Use
$200.00
$210.00
Shoreview
Per Use
$85.00
$88.00
Alcohol Fee 
Per Use
$50.00
$50.00
Jumper Fee
Per Use
$25.00
$25.00
Picnic Use/Cleanup Deposit 
Beresford Shelter
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
Central Park – entire area 
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
Bayside/Joinville – entire area 
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
Ryder – entire area
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
All other areas
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
B. SPECIAL PARK PERMITS 
Filming for commercial purposes 
Hour
$50.00
$50.00
Japanese Garden or Rose Garden
Per Use
$205.00
$205.00
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
Per Hour
$100.00
$100.00
Per Hour
$125.00
$125.00
Per Booking
$30.00
$30.00
Per Use
$28.00
$28.00
Per Use
$150.00
$150.00
Central outdoor stage
Per Use
$50.00
$55.00
Special Event Fee (minimum two hours)
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
Special Event Alcohol Fee
Per Use
$260.00
$260.00
Per occasion when using rec ctr.
Non Resident Extra Hours
Non-Resident
Resident Extra Hours
Non Profit Rate
Resident
Casanova
PICNIC AREAS
Chair Set-up
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
458 of 509

--- page 459 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
UNIT
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/221
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/232
I.
FACILITY RENTAL FEES (continued)
C.
Field Reservations
Priority 1
No fee
No fee
Priority 2
Youth Field Player Fee (Per season)
Per Player
$8.00
$8.00
Weekday and Half Day
Per Use
$8.00
$8.00
Weekend/Holiday Full Day 
Per Use
$15.00
$15.00
Tournament
Per Use/Field
$100.00
$100.00
Tournament Refundable Deposit
Per Use/Field
$260.00
$260.00
Priority 3-4
Youth Field Player Fee (Per season)
Per Player
$20.00
$20.00
UNIT
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
6/30/22
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
7/1/22
I.
FACILITY RENTAL FEES (continued)
Priority 3-4
Weekday and Half Day
Per Use
$20.00
$30.00
Camp or Clinic Fee - Soccer (Grass)
Per Hour
New
$50.00
Camp or Clinic Fee - Soccer (Turf)
Per Hour
New
$60.00
Camp or Clinic Fee - Baseball/Softball (Grass)
Per Hour
New
$40.00
Camp or Clinic Fee - Baseball/Softball (Turf)
Per Hour
New
$50.00
Weekend/Holiday Full Day 
Per Use
$40.00
$50.00
UNIT
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/22
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/23
I.
FACILITY RENTAL FEES (continued)
Priority 3-4
Tournament
Per Use
$210.00
$210.00
Tournament Refundable Deposit
Per Use/Field
$260.00
$260.00
Priority 5
Resident Adult Field Reservation (Per season)
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
Priority 6
NR Adult Reservation Field
Per Hour
$32.00
$33.00
Non-Athletic based NP Field Reservation
Per Hour
$15.00
$15.00
Private Tournament
Per Use/Field
$210.00
$215.00
Refundable Deposit
Per Use/Field
$260.00
$265.00
Light Charges
Per Hour
$25.00
$28.00
Fields - Unlocked Soccer Goal Fee 
Per Request
$25.00
$30.00
Field Attendant
Per Hour
Staff Rate
Staff Rate
Tennis Court Rental for Organizations
Per Hour
New
$12.00
Tennis Court Reservation
Per Hour
$9.00
$9.00
Bocce Courts (4 hours or less) 
Per Booking
$11.00
$11.00
Bocce Courts (4+ hours) 
Per Booking
$25.00
$25.00
Outdoor Fitness Fee
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
San Mateo High School Gymnasium Rentals
Gym
Per Hour
$75.00
$100.00
Lobby
Per Hour
$30.00
$30.00
Dance Studio
Per Hour
$35.00
$40.00
Multi-Purpose Room
Per Hour
$35.00
$40.00
ATHLETICS (Priority Levels defined on page 8.13)
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
459 of 509

--- page 460 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
UNIT
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/221
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/232
II.
AQUATICS - (See Classification Categories on page 8.12)
D. CENTER RENTALS - (See pages 8.10 - 8.12)
JOINVILLE
Large Pool (includes Dressing Room)
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$24.00
$25.00
Classification E
$35.00
$26.00
Non-Resident
$43.00
$44.00
Small Pool (includes Dressing Room)
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$12.00
$12.00
Classification E
$18.00
$18.00
Non-Resident
$22.00
$22.00
Multi-Purpose Room
See 
Community 
Centers 
Category 4 
(pg 8.11)
See 
Community 
Centers 
Category 4 
(pg 8.11)
Off Season Closure Period
By negotiation -
full cost 
recovery
By negotiation -
full cost 
recovery
BIRTHDAY PARTY FEE
Reservation Fee/Deposit
Includes 15 Guests
$95.00
$95.00
Additional Guests
Up to 20 Guests
$6.00
$6.00
KING POOL
Both Pools (includes Dressing Room)
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$20.00
$20.00
Classification E
$30.00
$30.00
Non-Resident
$37.00
$37.00
Off Season Closure Period
BOATHOUSE
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$20.00
$20.00
Classification E
$32.00
$32.00
Non-Resident
$41.00
$41.00
FACILITY PERS. RATES
Custodian
Per Hour
Staff Rate
Staff Rate
Facility Specialist
Per Hour
Staff Rate
Staff Rate
LIFEGUARDS
1st Guard - Senior Guard
Per Hour
Staff Rate
Staff Rate
2nd & each additional Guard
Per Hour
Staff Rate
Staff Rate
MARINA LAGOON
Boating pass (power boats 5 hp and up)
Annual
$450.00
$450.00
Daily
$40.00
$40.00
Boating pass (under 5 hp and sail over 8 ft.)
Annual
$250.00
$250.00
Daily
$25.00
$25.00
III. MISCELLANEOUS FEES
Volleyball net and standards rental
Per Weekend
$30.00
$30.00
Refundable Deposit
$100.00
$100.00
Custodian 
Per Hour
Staff Rate
Staff Rate
Clay
25 lb Bag
Actual cost
Actual cost
PHOTOCOPY & MAILINGS
Agendas
Year
$6.00
$6.00
Agendas & Minutes
Year
$12.00
$12.00
Photocopies
Per Sheet
$0.15
$0.15
IV.
SCHOOL DISTRICT FEES
A.  
B.  SAN MATEO FOSTER CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT (SMFCSD)
Fees shall be applied to the district and affiliated organizations (eg. PTA, Boosters, Foundation) as follows:
SAN MATEO HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
Unless otherwise specified in an adopted facility use agreement, indoor, swimming pool and athletic facility fees shall be calculated administratively to be comparable 
to the SMUHSD fee schedule as it pertains to City use of similar SMUHSD facilities.
Picnic and special park facility fees, and staffing fees charged to SMUHSD shall be at the rates described in other sections of the fee schedule.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
460 of 509

--- page 461 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
UNIT
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
6/30/22 
12/31/21
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
7/1/22 1/1/22
V.
GOLF COURSE
A. GENERAL
Weekdays
Per Round
$39.00
$41.00
Weekday Twilight
Per Round
$28.00
$30.00
Weekday Super Twilight
Per Round
$20.00
$22.00
Weekends (Fri., Sat., Sun., Holiday) 
Per Round
$55.00
$57.00
Weekend Twilight
Per Round
$35.00
$37.00
Weekend Super Twilight 
Per Round
$27.00
$29.00
Weekday-back 9
Per Round
$25.00
$25.00
Weekend-back 9
Per Round
$29.00
$29.00
Sr. 10 Play Card
Each
$310.00
$320.00
B. RESIDENT
Weekdays
Per Round
$34.00
$36.00
Weekday Twilight
Per Round
$28.00
$30.00
Weekday Super Twilight
Per Round
$20.00
$22.00
Weekends (Fri., Sat., Sun., Holiday) 
Per Round
$47.00
$49.00
Weekend Twilight
Per Round
$35.00
$37.00
Weekend Super Twilight 
Per Round
$27.00
$29.00
Weekday-back 9
Per Round
$25.00
$25.00
Weekend-back 9
Per Round
$29.00
$29.00
Senior Weekdays
Per Round
$30.00
$31.00
Sr. 10 Play Card
Each
$260.00
$270.00
C. JUNIOR
Jr. Weekdays
Per Round
$15.00
$15.00
Jr. Weekend
Per Round
$18.00
$20.00
D. RESIDENT GOLF I.D. CARD
Per Annual Fee
$20.00
$20.00
E. RANGE BALLS (BUCKET)
Size: Warm-up
$5.00
$5.00
Small
$8.00
$8.00
Medium
$11.00
$11.00
Large
$14.00
$14.00
F. MEMBERSHIP SUBSCRIPTION
Per Month
$29.99
$29.99
UNIT
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/22
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/23
VI.
PARK AND LANDSCAPE RESOURCES
A. HERITAGE TREE PERMIT
Per Permit
$100.00
$100.00
Tree Replacement Cost (24" Box Tree)
Per Tree
$740.00
$740.00
Right of Way Tree Removal
Per Hour
Actual cost 
charged by a 
city designated 
private tree 
care company
Actual cost 
charged by a 
city designated 
private tree 
care company
B. MEMORIAL BENCH
Per Bench
$2,500.00
$2,500.00
C. TREE REPLACEMENT COST (15 gallon)
Each
$483.00
$483.00
D. TREE REPLACEMENT COST (36 inch box)
Each
$1,480.00
$1,480.00
E. TREE REPLACEMENT COST (48 inch box)
Each
$2,960.00
$2,960.00
F. COMMEMORATIVE TREE
Per Tree
$1,000.00
$1,000.00
G. COMMUNITY GARDENS - Community Garden Plots
Per Square Ft.
$0.28
$0.28
H.
Each
$80.00
$80.00
I. HERITAGE TREE APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL (Applicant Exempt from Fee)
Each
$80.00
$80.00
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
HERITAGE TREE APPEAL TO PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION (Applicant Exempt 
from Fee)
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Golf Fees - The Parks and Recreation Director may adjust green fee amounts for marketing and promotional 
activities as is necessary to encourage optimum play at the municipal golf courses.
461 of 509

--- page 462 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
UNIT
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
6/30/22 
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
7/1/22
J. COMMUNITY GARDENS - Community Garden Plots
Each
New
$100.00
Per Residential Unit Type:
Per unit*
Per unit*
Single Family
$29,598.00
$29,598.00
Multi-family 2-4 Units
$27,172.00
$27,172.00
Multi-family 5+ Units
$20,476.00
$20,476.00
Mobile Homes
$17,564.00
$17,564.00
L.
 Per $100 Valuation on 
Building Permit App. 
$0.30
$0.30
Single Family
3.05
  
persons per unit
Multi-family 2-4 units
2.80
  
persons per unit
Multi-family 5+ units
2.11
  
persons per unit
Mobile Homes
1.81
  
persons per unit
UNIT
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/221
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/232
VII.
A.
Fee is per 
Consultant's 
Fee is per 
Consultant's 
B.
Building Valuation on Those 
Building Permits Whose 
Valuation is Over $5,000
0.05%
0.05%
1These fees are collected by Community Development's Building Division - see page 2.3
K.
* Fee = Land Dedication Requirement x Median Land Value of $5,155,309 4,852,055 per acre adopted by City Council Resolution, where Land Dedication Requirement = 
[(Quantity of proposed dwelling units x population factor per dwelling unit type) less (quantity of existing dwelling units x population factor per dwelling unit type)] x (2 
acres/ 1000 population) per Muni Code Section 26.64. The population factors per dwelling unit type are as follows:
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT REVIEW FEE1
CONSULTANTS FOR SPECIALIZED PLAN CHECKING AND INSPECTION SERVICES OR TO 
EXPEDITE PLAN CHECKING AND INSPECTION SERVICES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
REIMBURSE COST OF STAFF OR CONSULTANT TIME SPENT IN PLAN CHECK OR 
INSPECTION SERVICES. PARK PLAN CHECK AND INSPECTION SERVICES ON BUILDING 
PERMITS. FEE TO BE COLLECTED AT TIME OF BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATION. AFTER 
PAYMENT OF FEES, PERMITTEE MAY APPLY FOR AN EXEMPTION FOR PROJECTS 
HAVING NO PARK PLAN CHECK OR INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
PARK AND RECREATION TAX ON RESIDENTIAL BUILDING PERMITS 1
PARK IN-LIEU FEE / PARK IMPACT FEE FOR RESIDENTIAL PLANNING APPLICATION 
PROJECTS INVOLVING PARCEL MAPS, SUBDIVISION AND OTHER MULTI-FAMILY 
RESIDENTIAL PROJECTS.
462 of 509

--- page 463 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
Flat Per Use B-1*
$40.00
$30.00
$25.00
$15.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Flat Per Use B-2*
$50.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Flat Per Use B-3*
$45.00
$35.00
$30.00
$20.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Room Hourly E-1*
Room Hourly 
NR-1*
$120.00
$145.00
$95.00
$120.00
$75.00
$90.00
$40.00
$50.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Room Hourly E-2*
Room Hourly 
NR-2*
$170.00
$200.00
$145.00
$170.00
$120.00
$135.00
$70.00
$80.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Hourly E-2
Hourly
NR-2
N/A
N/A
$95.00
$120.00
$75.00
$90.00
$40.00
$50.00
Hourly E-2
Hourly
NR-2
$50.00 Gymnasium (E1, E-
2)
$63.00 $25.00
Flat Per Use E-2
Flat Per Use 
NR-2
$90.00 E-2
$115.00 
$90.00
NR-2
$115.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
Community Center Fee Schedule
B-1 Classification: (Non-profit (including 501©(6)) conducting business activity)
Room Category
Category 1
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: Hourly Staff Cost for $19.00 Rental Officer and / or per hour if needed; $29.00 Custodian per hour if needed.
Category 3
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: Hourly Staff Cost for $19.00 Rental Officer and / or per hour if needed; $29.00 Custodian per hour if needed.
B-2 Classification: (Non-profit booking on Sat/Sun beginning after 3 pm or ending after 6pm - fee applies to entire booking)
Room Category
Any Room
Additional Hourly Charges: Hourly Staff Cost for $19.00 Rental Officer and / or per hour if needed; $29.00 Custodian per hour if needed.
B-3 Classification: (B-1 groups reserving regular weekly or monthly meeting times.)
Room Category
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: Hourly Staff Cost for $19.00 Rental Officer and / or per hour if needed; $29.00 Custodian per hour if needed.
E-1 & NR-1 Classification: (private, profit & non-resident business uses during specifically designated operating hrs.)
Room Category
Room Category
Additional Hourly Charges: Hourly Staff Cost for Rental Officer and / or Custodian if needed.
E-2 & NR-2 Classification: (private, profit & non-resident business uses during non-business hours)
Room Category
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Birthday
Birthday* (2-hr rental)
King
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: If requesting more than one room, use the following chart for additional fees:
Room Category
Category 1
Category 2
Room Category
463 of 509

--- page 464 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
Standing
Theatre
Facility
Room
Category
Beresford
Assembly
1
614
439
Beresford
Social
3
359
256
Beresford
Activity
3
540
385
Beresford
Conference
4
Beresford
Studio
4
333
238
Beresford
Club
4
342
244
Beresford
Assembly
2
Central
Activity 
A/B
2
265
189
Central
Activity A
4
Central
Stage
4
307
219
Central
Lounge
4
254
181
Central
Activity B
4
City Hall
City 
Council
2
City Hall
Room C
3
City Hall
Atrium
3
City Hall
Room A
4
211
150
City Hall
Room B
4
City Hall
Cafeteria
4
250
178
King
Assembly
1
125
89
King
Social A/B
2
125
89
King
Studio
4
84
60
King
Social A
4
King
Conference
4
King
Social B
4
Joinville Pool
Multipurpose
4
162
116
170
122
101
72
Sr. Center
Assem/MP
1
158
113
Sr. Center
Activity
3
125
89
Sr. Center
Assem/MP 
A
4
158
113
Sr. Center
Conference
4
150
107
C. FACILITY CATEGORY TABLES
88
Activity
102
111
114
Activity 
Sr. Center
Assembly
180
Central
Beresford
Assembly
205
King
Assembly
120
Central
Assembly
City Hall
Council 
Chambers
King
Social 
Beresford
Sr. Center
Assem/MP 
A (Back 
Half)
King
Social B
King
Conference
City Hall
Conf Rm 
Central
Activity A
Beresford
Conference
Beresford
Sr. Center
Activity
Facility
Room
Banquet
85
City Hall
Conf Rm 
C
City Hall
Atrium
Beresford
Social
Studio
83
70
42
Beresford
Studio B
42
Beresford
Club
28
Beresford
Studio A
Conf Rm 
26
Central
Lounge
Central
Stage
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
53
34
King
Studio
53
King
Social A
42
City Hall
Cafeteria
Joinville 
Multipurpose
54
Central
Activity B
57
City Hall
Note - Capacities are fire safety maximums. Rental capacities may vary and are established by each center consistent with use needs.
50
464 of 509

--- page 465 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
FACILITY PERMIT CLASSIFICATION DEFINITIONS
Classification A:
Public recreation activities that are co-sponsored by or affiliated with the Recreation Department after meeting 
department qualifications and requirements.
Any recreation, social, business, or service activity conducted by any person or group not included within 
Classifications A or B and are residents or businesses of the City of San Mateo, such as parties and receptions.
E-1: E classification use during specifically designated public facility hours.
Classification B-2:
Any activities scheduled during "Prime Time," defined as any booking beginning 3 p.m. or later, or ending 6 p.m. or 
later on Saturdays and Sundays.
Classification B-3:
B-1 groups reserving regular monthly meeting times.
Classification B-4:
Classification B:
Recreation activities and meetings that are organized, promoted, conducted, and sponsored by registered non-profits 
(IRS registered non-profit or established and organized not-for-profit groups with written organization documents, 
stationary, and/or membership lists) serving residents of the City of San Mateo and whose membership is open to the 
general public.
Classification B-1:
Any activities which are related to the business or mission of the organization.
B-1 groups participating in in-kind volunteer service fee waiver program.
Classification E:
NR-2: NR use during non-public facility hours.
E-2: E classification use during non-public facility hours.
Non-Resident:
Recreation activities, social, business, or service, meetings, and private groups in which one-half of its current 
membership are not residents of the City of San Mateo or in the case of private groups, such as receptions at parties, the 
applicant (or business) is not a City resident.
NR-1: NR use during specifically designated public facility hours.
465 of 509

--- page 466 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
Priority 5:
A. Adult resident sports groups or teams.
B. Resident private rentals.
Priority 6:
Youth or Adult non-resident groups, teams, or individuals. Nonresident is defined as having an organization address 
outside of the San Mateo City limits and/or having less than 25% residency.
Programs conducted by Elementary Schools (K-8) within the City of San Mateo. Also programs conducted by 
organizations that limit their recruitment and sign-ups to individuals living within the San Mateo City limits and are 
recreational in nature having a "everyone plays; no child is turned away" philosophy. Residency requirement for Priority 2 
consideration is a minimum of 90%
Priority 3:
Programs conducted by private high schools within the City of San Mateo. Also, programs conducted by organizations in 
which participants must "tryout" or be selected based on skill level. Organizations may be "select" in that participants may 
be recruited from cities other than San Mateo. Residency requirement for Priority 3 consideration is a minimum of 50%. 
Residency verification may be required.
Priority 4:
Programs conducted by organizations in which participants must "tryout" or be selected based on skill level. Organizations 
may be "select" in that participants may be recruited from cities other than San Mateo. Residency requirement for Priority 
4 consideration is a minimum of 25% residency. Residency verification may be required.
Athletics Field Priorities
Priority 1:
Programs and activities conducted or sponsored by the City of San Mateo. This includes the San Mateo Police Activities 
League program(s).
Priority 2:
466 of 509

--- page 467 ---
UNIT
I.
PERMITS
A. MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT:
1. Establishment Certificate for Non-Practitioner Owners
Base Fee for Processing
$586.00 $565.00
+ Actual Time Spent x Rate Per
Hour as Appropriate
2. Establishment Certificate for Owner/Practitioners
Verification/Processing/Safety Inspection
Base Fee for Processing
$292.00 $282.00
+ Actual Time Spent x Rate Per
Hour as Appropriate
B. MASSAGE PRACTITIONER OFF- PREMISE
Verification/Processing
Each
$55.00 $53.00
C. TANNING SALON
1. Tanning Facility Application Fee
Each
$498.00 $480.00
2. Tanning Facility Biyearly Renewal Fee
Each Facility
$82.00 $79.00
D.  TAXI CAB DRIVER Investigation/Processing
New/Renewal
$115.00 $111.00 1
E. TAXI CAB INSPECTION
$138.00 $133.00 2
F. ENTERTAINMENT PERMIT
Each
$319.00 $308.00
G. TOW SERVICE
1. Tow Truck Application Fee
$291.00 $281.00 1
2. Tow Truck Rotation List
$45.00 $44.00
3. Tow Truck Licensing Fee
$3.00
H.
Fee/Per Hour
$160.00 $155.00
II.
COPIES OF REPORTS
A. ACCIDENT REPORTS
Per Page
$0.15
B. CAD REPORTS
Per Page
$0.15
C. ARREST REPORTS
Per Page
$0.15
D. CLEARANCE LETTER
Each
$10.00
E. PUBLIC RECORDS REQUEST
Per Page
$0.15
III.
VIDEO/AUDIO TAPE RECORDS AND PHOTOS
A. VIDEO RECORDINGS
1.
Each
$12.00
B. PHOTOS
Each
$5.00
IV.
Each
$15.00
V.
A.
Per 1/4 Hour
$6.00
B.
Per Page
$0.10
C.
Each
Actual Cost
DVD / CD / Flash drive Recording
FILING OF REPORT OF REPOSSESSION 
(State Law GC 41612)
SUBPOENA DUCES TECUM  
(State Law CEC 1563)
CLERICAL COSTS (Charged on a 1/4 hr basis w/the hrly rate set at $24.00)
STANDARD REPRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS OF A SIZE OF 8 1/2 X 
14 INCHES OR LESS
REPRODUCTION OF OVERSIZE DOCUMENTS, DOCUMENTS 
REQUIRING SPECIAL PROCESSING, POSTAGE, RETRIEVAL/RETURN 
OF RECORDS HELD OFF-SITE
POLICE
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
FEE
Background Investigation/Verification/ Processing/Safety Inspection
PROJECT PLAN CHECKING FEE ON BUILDING PERMITS
467 of 509

--- page 468 ---
POLICE
UNIT
VI.
FALSE ALARMS
First alarm starting each fiscal year (7/1/21)
One
Free
2nd & over
Each
$108.00 $105.00
VII.
Each
As determined by the County
VIII. OFFICER RESPONSE
A.
Per Hour
$90.00 $86.95
B.
Per Hour
$90.00 $86.95
Per Officer
(one (1) hour min.)
C.
See “SPECIAL COMMUNITY EVENTS PERMIT” Section
D.
Each
$275.00
(per CA Government Code 
68097.2)
IX.
VEHICLE RELEASES
A. IMPOUNDED/STORED VEHICLE
Each
$20.00
X.
One
$111.00 $107.00
Additional
$72.00 $70.00
XI.
OUTSIDE DETAIL RATES 3, 4
Police Officer
Per Hour
$108.67 $104.50
Police Sergeant
Per Hour
$130.39 $125.37
Community Service Officer
Per Hour
$65.79 $63.25
Sr. Dispatcher
Per Hour
$85.58 $82.28
Police Reserve Officer
Per Hour
$81.96
Police Vehicle Abatement Officer
Per Hour
$52.74 $52.22
Police Officer
Per Hour
$135.84 $130.62
Police Sergeant
Per Hour
$162.99 $156.72
Community Service Officer
Per Hour
$82.24 $79.07
Sr. Dispatcher
Per Hour
$106.97 $102.85
Police Reserve Officer
Per Hour
$102.45
Police Vehicle Abatement Officer
Per Hour
$65.93 $65.27
Police Department Footnotes:
1 Plus prevailing State, Federal and County Fees for fingerprinting of applicants that are at the following costs:
DOJ Prevailing Fee
$32.00
FBI Prevailing Fee
$17.00
County Prevailing Fee
$5.00
$54.00
2
3
4
In the event the Police Department must augment staffing of an outside detail with personnel from an allied agency, the outside detail rate charged 
shall be commensurate to the actual rate which is charged by that agency, which may be higher/lower than the rate listed.
The rates charged for Outside Detail may be updated during the Fiscal Year to reflect negotiated salary increases and ensure full cost recovery.
Category B: Fund raising events organized, conducted and sponsored by 
registered non- profit organizations.
Category C: Events sponsored by for-profit business or non-tax-exempt 
i
i
The fee will include up to two re-inspections at no additional cost.  Additional inspections will be billed at 50% of the original cost.
OUTSIDE DETAIL
CIVIL SUBPOENA WITNESS FEE DEPOSIT (Governed by State Law). 
Actual costs will be charged
(excluding vehicles towed exclusively under the authority of VC 22651(c), (g),
(k), (o), (i.)(l), or VC 226.55.5).
Category A: City organized, conducted, sponsored, or co-sponsored events, or 
non- profit sponsored events that benefit city programs.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
FEE
BOOKING FEE (UPON CONVICTION) STATE LAW SECTION 29550.1.
EMERGENCY RESPONSE TO DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE (DUI) 
upon conviction (Gov't Code Section 53150-58)
DISTURBANCE SERVICE FEE
(loud parties, barking dogs, etc.)
STORAGE OF FIREARM 
(Includes safekeeping)
468 of 509

--- page 469 ---
POLICE
$79.00 $77.00/ $10.00 w/POC
$47.00 $46.00/ $10.00 w/POC
$47.00 $46.00/ $10.00 w/POC
$43.00 $42.00
$47.00 $46.00
$43.00 $42.00
$47.00 $46.00
$47.00 $46.00
$47.00 $46.00
$47.00 $46.00
$43.00 $42.00
$47.00 $46.00
$43.00 $42.00
$47.00 $46.00
$47.00 $46.00
$347.00 $335.00
$43.00 $42.00
$347.00 $335.00
$47.00 $46.00
$47.00 $46.00
$58.00 $56.00
$47.00 $46.00
$347.00 $335.00
$149.00 $144.00
$149.00 $144.00
$47.00 $46.00
$47.00 $46.00
$47.00 $46.00
$47.00 $46.00
$47.00 $46.00
$43.00 $42.00
$43.00 $42.00
$43.00 $42.00
$43.00 $42.00
$43.00 $42.00
$43.00 $42.00
$43.00 $42.00
$47.00 $46.00
$43.00 $42.00
$43.00 $42.00
$43.00 $42.00
$43.00 $42.00
$43.00 $42.00
Overtime in meter zone/feeding meter
$43.00 $42.00
$43.00 $42.00
$43.00 $42.00
$43.00 $42.00
$47.00 $46.00
11.48.070
Parking in bus zone (curb marked)
17.08.20
Boat or other object parked on public right-of-way
11.44.150
Meter violation
11.44.160
11.44.165
Repeat violations for overtime parking (2nd violation-same day, same place)
11.48.030
Parking in alley
11.40.110
Parked on private property w/o consent
11.44.090
Parked in front of a hooded meter
11.44.130
Parking over lines
11.40.060
Curb wheels/set brake on hill
11.40.070
Parking so as to obstruct traffic
11.40.100
Violation of emergency signs posted
11.40.040(a)
Restricted parking on City street (posted) (No residential parking permit)
11.40.040(b)
Restricted parking on City lot (posted) i.e., City Hall, Rec Centers, Library, etc.
11.40.055
Street sweeping
11.36.010(1)
Parallel parking in angle slot
11.36.020
Angle parking (right front tire not within 18” of curb)
11.40.040(a)
Restricted parking on City street (posted)
11.32.070
Red, yellow, etc., curb markings
11.32.100
Commercial vehicle on residential street, 10,000 lbs. GVW
11.32.105
Oversized vehicle/trailer parked on residential street
22523(b)
Abandon vehicle-public/private property
11.32.030
Truck parked on City street (may be used for limos, small shuttle buses, and small school buses)
11.32.040
Parked on parkway (Planting strip)
22521
Parking within 7 ½ feet of train tracks
22522
Blocking disabled ramp
22523(a)
Abandoned vehicle- any highway
22514
Blocking fire hydrant
22515(a)
Parked with engine running and/or parking brake not set
22516
Person locked in vehicle
22500(l)
Blocking wheelchair access to sidewalk
22502(a)
Not within 18” of the curb
22507.8
Handicapped parking
22500(h)
Double parking
22500(i)
Parking within bus zone
22500(k)
Parking upon any bridge
22500(e)
Blocking any driveway
22500(f)
Parking on a sidewalk
22500(g)
Obstructing traffic by parking near excavation
22500(b)
Parking within a crosswalk
22500(c)
Parking within a safety zone
22500(d)
Parking within 15 ft. of fire station driveway
21113
Parking on public grounds-no permit
22500.1
Fire lane
22500(a)
Parking within an intersection
PARKING PENALTY SCHEDULE
Only one violation per citation
4000(a)
Expired registration (make sure you check the POC box)
5200
License plates failure to display (make sure you check the POC box)
5204
Tabs (make sure you check the POC box)
469 of 509

--- page 470 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
PARKING FEES
A. TEMPORARY NO PARKING METERS (1)
Up to 7 days
Per Day/Per Meter
$12.50
8 – 49 days
Per Wk./Per Meter
$75.00
50 – 98 days
Per Wk./Per Meter
$150.00
99+ days
Per Wk./Per Meter
$300.00
Per Installation
$77.00
B. TEMPORARY "NO PARKING" SIGNS
Each
$3.00
C. DOWNTOWN PARKING FEE PARKING PASSES
2nd and El Camino Real 
Monthly
$65.00
Central Parking
Monthly
$100.00
Tennis Court Garage 
Monthly
$65.00
Main Street Garage 
Monthly
$100.00 $65.00
Transit Center
Monthly
$65.00
Railroad Avenue between 5th to 9th
Monthly
$40.00
Kinko’s Lot – Lot 10,
Monthly
$40.00
Worker’s Resource Lot – Lot 11,
Monthly
$40.00
Low-Income Parking Permit
Monthly
$40.00
D. ON-STREET AND OFF-STREET RATES (per SMMC 11.40.010)
($0.50 minimum for credit cards at pay stations)
Time Limit:
Premium On-Street Space 
3 Hours/per Hour
$1.50
Premium Off-Street Facilities 
3 Hours/Per Hour
$1.25
Premium Off-Street Facilities
No Limit
$1.25
(Central Garage – Lots 4, 5, 6), Main Street Garage
Value On-Street Spaces
3 Hours/Per Hour
$1.00
Value Off-Street Facilities 
3 Hours/Per Hour
$0.75
Value Off-Street Facilities
No Limit
$0.75
No Limit
$0.25
E. VALET PARKING PERMIT FEE
Permit Fee 
Per Permit
$478.00
Implementation/Replacement Costs:
Curb Marking
Each Location
$85.00
Signs
Per Sign
$141.00
Meter Pole/Bracket
Per Pole/Bracket
$40.00
F.
Annually Per Space Per Day
$1.00 x # of spaces x # of 
days of operation per week 
x 52 weeks
G. PUBLIC EV CHARGING STATION
Per kW/h
$0.26 $0.25
PUBLIC WORKS
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
For each time the City installs and removes a meter bag.
(Main Street Garage – Lot 1, Second and ECR Garage – Lot 2, Tennis Court Garage – Lot 3, 5th and B 
Lot – Lot 7, 4th and Railroad Lot – Lot 8, Transit Center – Lot 9, 5th to 9th Ave on S. Railroad Ave), 
Kinko’s Lot – Lot 10, and Worker’s Resource Lot – Lot 11
USE OF PUBLIC PARKING SPACES FOR VALET STATIONS
470 of 509

--- page 471 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
II.
ENCROACHMENT PERMITS (see Encroachment Permit Notes (II))
A. NEW INSTALLATION PERMIT
Each
$906.00
Deposit
See Notes
1.
Each
$1,124.00
B. TEMPORARY PERMIT (Note II.B.)
1.
Dumpster (Note II. B. 1.)
Each
$385.00
Deposit Per Location
$500.00
2.
Each
$385.00
Deposit Per Location
$1,000.00
3.
Each
$160.00
Deposit
$350.00
Per Container Per Day
$10.00
C.
DOCK PERMIT 
1.
New Installation and Repair or Replacement (Note II.C.1)
Each
$169.00
Min Deposit Per Dock
$1,000.00
2.
Annual Fee (Note II.C.2)
Per Dock
$130.00
D. UTILITY PERMIT
1.
Permit Processing Fee (Note II.D.1)
See Notes
2.
Deposit for Large projects (Note II.D.2)
Min Deposit Per Location
$1,000.00
E. INVESTIGATION FEE (Note II.E.)
Each
$906.00
F.  
Each
$906.00
G. OUTDOOR RESTAURANT SEATING & MERCHANDISE DISPLAY (Note II.G.)
Each
$371.00
H. PARKLET ENCROACHMENT FEES
1.
Each
$500.00
2.
Per Public Parking Space 
Used in the Parklet
$250.00
A. FLAT FEE ENCROACHMENT PERMITS
1 Residential Driveway / Sidewalk / Curb & Gutter
Each
$723.00
2 Temporary Encroachment Permit (i.e. dumpsters, scaffolding, soil tests, sewer video inspections, etc.)
Each
$381.00
3 Temporary Rental Storage Container (i.e. Pods)
Each
$166.00
4 Traffic Control 
Each
$581.00
5 Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining
a. Permit Application Fee
Each
$385.10
b. Parklet Encroachment Permit Fee
Each
$385.10
6 Public Improvements Related to Planning Applications (PA)
Each
$214.00
7 Sewer Lateral
Each
$896.00
8 Time Extension
Each
$40.00
9. Dock Permit
a. New Installation and Repaire or Replacment
Each
$3,167.00
b. Annual Fee
Per Dock
$43.00
10. Parklet 
a. Permit Application Fee
Each
$500.00
Per Public Parking Space 
Used in the Parklet
$250.00
b. Parklet Encroachment Permit Fee
Per Public Parking Space 
Used in the Parklet
$250.00
B. ALL OTHER ENCROACHMENT PERMITS
Construction Cost in Public ROW
$0-$50k
Base
$1,756.86
$50k-$100k
Base
$1,756.86
+Every dollar above $50k
5.00%
$100k-$500k
Base
$4,256.51
+Every dollar above $100k
2.91%
$500k-$1m
Base
$15,893.59
+Every dollar above $500k
2.11%
$1m-$5m
Base
$26,462.63
+Every dollar above $1m
0.27%
$5m +
Base
$37,423.82
+Every dollar above $5m
0.28%
Permanent – City Right-of-Way Review Fee (Note II.A.1.)
Scaffolding/Soil Test and Borings/Sewer or Storm Drain Video Inspection/Traffic Control 
ENCROACHMENT PERMIT WORK IN CONJUNCTION WITH SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT (Note 
II.F.)
(Note II.B.2)
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Temporary Storage Container/Pod (Note II. B. 3.)
Renewal Fee
Permit Application Fee
Parklet Encroachment Permit Fee
471 of 509

--- page 472 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
NOTES:
II.
ENCROACHMENT PERMITS
A.
New Installation Permit
1. Permanent – City Right-of-Way Review Fee
B.
Temporary Permit
1.
2.
3.
C.
Dock Permit
1. New Installation and Repair or Replacement
2.
D. Utility Permit
1.
2.
3.
E. Investigation Fees
1.
2.
F. Encroachment Permit Work in Conjunction with Site Development Permit
1.
2.
G. Outdoor Restaurant Seating & Merchandise Display
All encroachment permits required as a result of any request for service, including conditions applied to Planning items (variances, site plan & architectural reviews, planned 
community developments, and others) shall be charged all appropriate fees as shown above.  
Note: There will be no fee for encroachment permits to repair sidewalk tripping hazards as determined by City inspection staff.  A traffic control plan is required for all work  as 
specified in the Encroachment Permit Application packet.
In order to obtain an encroachment permit, a standard Encroachment Permit Application must be filled out by the owner of the property or the contractor performing the work. In 
addition to the required fee and application, all aspects of Chapter 17 of the San Mateo Municipal Code must be adhered to. The applicant must post financial security equal to the 
value of the improvements to secure performance. Labor and materials must also be secured at one-half the value of the improvements. Current standard insurance must be on file 
with the City. Insurance requirements include public liability and property damage insurance, naming the City as an additional insured. Evidence of insurance may include a 
certificate and/or endorsement.
Any improvements not included elsewhere in this section shall be charged the minimum fee shown above.  If a project account has been funded by the applicant, his 
representative or a developer responsible for the construction of the project, will be charged the minimum fee.  A portion of the fee will be used to fund the Stormwater 
Pollution Prevention Program (STOPPP) in accordance with Chapter 7.39 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The fee and deposit are waived for City projects.
Request to place or replace structures such as fences, retaining walls, pilasters, stairs, etc. in the public right-of-way (ROW) when an exception is made by the Director 
of Public Works or designee for such structure. This fee will cover field visit to the site, engineering review of the existing or proposed structure, and administrative time 
to prepare a license agreement. 
When work that requires an encroachment permit is done in conjunction with a Site Development Permit or Project Account, the encroachment permit fee will be the 
same as a New Installation.  The total deposit will then cover fees for required engineering and inspection services by the City related to the encroachment and site 
development permits. The engineering and inspection fees for both the encroachment permit and the site development permit will be charged at the current hourly rate.
The fees charged plus the required deposit must be paid and standard insurance must be on file prior to issuance of any encroachment permit. The deposit will be held in 
a project account and any balance remaining after completion of the project will be refunded. Charges in excess of the deposit will be billed and must be paid before sign-
off by the City that the work related to encroachment and site development permit is complete.
Utility projects considered large, shall place a minimum deposit for review and inspection in a project account. Any funds remaining in the account will be refunded 
after project completion. Projects considered large are as follows:  100 linear feet or more of trenching, projects requiring traffic or pedestrian detours on collector and/or 
arterials roadways, and as determined by the Director of Public Works or designee.
Utility company permit fees will be waived if the utility relocation work is the result of a City project.  Public Utility Commission Rule 20-A projects will also result in 
waiver of encroachment permit fees.
The Applicant shall pay a fee and a minimum deposit to cover department reviews and inspections. Any funds remaining in the account will be refunded after project 
completion.
Annual Fee: Dock owners shall pay an annual fee to cover the costs of program administration and periodic inspections.
Utility companies shall pay a permit processing fee of $385.19.  For each job in the City right-of-way, the utility company shall obtain an encroachment permit, pay a utility encroachment 
permit fee of $192.09 and provide the City with current standard insurance.  A portion of the base fee will be used to fund the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program (STOPPP). Utility 
encroachment permits shall be obtained prior to any utility work in the City right-of-way.
Work without an encroachment permit will result in an investigation fee. Whenever any work, for which an encroachment permit is required by the San Mateo 
Municipal Code, has commenced without first obtaining said permit, a special investigation shall be completed.  An investigation fee shall be charged and paid whether 
or not a permit is subsequently issued.  The fee must however be paid and the required standard insurance obtained before a permit may be issued for such work.
The investigation fee shall be equal to the amount of the encroachment permit fee as shown on the City of San Mateo Public Works Fee Schedule. The payment of such 
investigation fee shall not exempt any person from compliance with all provisions of the San Mateo Municipal Code, nor from any penalty prescribed by law.
Temporary Storage Container/Pod: A standard encroachment permit, including general liability insurance, will be required for the placement of a temporary storage 
container or portable on-demand storage (Pod) in the public right-of-way. Approved permit renewals will be charged at a rate of $10 per container per day.
Dumpsters: A standard encroachment permit, including necessary insurance, will be required for the placement of a dumpster in the public right-of-way.
Scaffolding, soil tests, sewer video inspections, etc.: An encroachment permit may be issued upon completion of an encroachment permit application and proof of 
current standard insurance on file with the City. A fee and security deposit must be posted to insure removal of the temporary encroachment and cover any repair costs 
due to damage that may occur.
Request to place outdoor restaurant seating and/or merchandise display in the public right-of-way.  Installations must provide ADA access and minimum pedestrian travel 
way of three (3) feet.
472 of 509

--- page 473 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
A. FLAT FEE ENCROACHMENT PERMITS
1. Residential Driveway / Sidewalk / Curb & Gutter
2. Temporary Encroachment Permit (i.e. dumpsters, scaffolding, soil tests, sewer video inspections, etc.)
3. Temporary Rental Storage Container  (i.e. Pods)
4. Traffic Control 
5. Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining
6. Public Improvements Related to Planning Applications (PA)
7. Sewer Lateral
8. Time Extension
9. Dock Permit
a.
New Installation and Repaire or Replacment
b.
Annual Fee
10. Parklet 
B. ALL OTHER ENCROACHMENT PERMITS
This fee will cover permit processing and inspections for encroachment permits related the installation, repair or replacement of docks. The application shall include
necessary insurance and security deposit.
Dock owners shall pay an annual fee to cover the costs of program administration and periodic inspections.
Encroachment permits for work that is not listed under Flat Fee Encroachment Permits, shall pay a fee based on the construction cost of the work in the public right-of-way.
This fee will cover permit processing and inspections for the encroachment.  Applicants shall submit a construction cost estimate of work within the public right-of-way 
with their application, which will be subject to the review and approval by Public Works. The application shall include necessary insurance and security deposit.  For utility 
companies,  they shall be exempt from providing a security deposit, billing will be on a quaterly basis, and current insurance is required to be on file with the City.
In order to obtain an encroachment permit, an Encroachment Permit Application must be filled out by the owner of the property or the contractor performing the work. In 
addition to the required fee and application, all aspects of Chapter 17 of the San Mateo Municipal Code must be adhered to. The applicant must post financial security equal 
to the value of the improvements to secure performance. Labor and materials must also be secured at one-half the value of the improvements. Current standard insurance 
must be on file with the City. Insurance requirements include public liability and property damage insurance, naming the City as an additional insured. Evidence of 
insurance may include a certificate and/or endorsement. A portion of the fee will be used to fund the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program (STOPPP) in accordance 
with Chapter 7.39 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. Fees are waived for City projects.
This fee will cover permit processing and inspections for encroachment permits related to driveways, sidewalks, and/or curb and gutters.  Traffic control as part of this 
permit is included in the fee and no additional fees are required. The application shall include necessary insurance and security deposit.  Time extension may be granted
per the fee schedule. 
An encroachment permit, including necessary insurance and security deposits, will be required for the placement of temporary items, including dumpsters, scaffolding, 
equipment for soil tests, equipment for sewer video inspections, in the public right-of-way. The application shall include necessary insurance and security deposit. Time
extension may be granted per the fee schedule. 
An encroachment permit, including general liability insurance, will be required for the placment of temporary storage container or portable on-demand storage in the
public right-of-way.  Approved permit renewals will be charged at a rate of $10 per container per day.
An encroachment permit, including necessary insurance and security deposits, will be required for traffic control, in the public right-of-way, that is not associated with
another encroachment permt. Time extension may be granted per the fee schedule. 
An encroachment permit appication, including necessary insurance and application fee, will be required for ground floor food service businesses to provide outdoor 
seating and related furnishings in the following areas if the applicant meets certain City standards and conditions of use:  Commercial districts on the sidewalk (with the 
exception of along El Camino Real), Pedestrian mall on B Street between 1st and 3rd Avenue on the sidewalk and/or street.  Applicant shall pay the renewel fee annually 
prior to permit expiration.
When work that requires an encroachment permit is done in conjunction with a Planning Applicattion (PA), a processing fee is required.  The Project Account for the
PA will cover the cost for engineering review and inspection services by the City related to the encroachment. The application shall include necessary insurance and 
security deposit. Time extension may be granted per the fee schedule. 
This fee will cover permit processing and inspections for encroachment permits related to sewer laterals.  Traffic control as part of this permit is included in the fee and
no additional fees are required. The application shall include necessary insurance and security deposit. Time extension may be granted per the fee schedule. 
This fee will cover permit processing for  time extensions of certain encroachment permits as noted.  Changes to the scope of work is not covered by this fee.
An encroachment permit application, including necessary insurance and application fees, will be required for parklet installations in most commercial areas.   Applicant 
shall pay the renewel fee annually prior to permit expiration.
473 of 509

--- page 474 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
III. STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION CONSTRUCTION PERMITS
A. PERMIT FEE - non-refundable
Each
No Fee
Each
$587.51 $566.00
Each
$587.51 $566.00
B. EROSION CONTROL MINIMUM COMPLIANCE
Minimum Deposit
$395.48 $381.00
NOTES:
III. STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION CONSTRUCTION PERMITS
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
(See Stormwater Pollution Prevention Construction Permit Notes)
Type III and IV Projects -  Refundable Deposit
(See Stormwater Pollution Prevention Construction Permit Notes)
In order to obtain a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program (STOPPP) Construction permit per the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, an applicant (i.e., property owner 
or contractor performing the work) must  pay the appropriate permit fee. Type I Projects are not required to pay the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program Construction Permit 
fee, but are still required to comply with Construction Best Management Practices (BMP) as outlined in the permit card. Storm drain polluters may be liable for fines up to 
$10,000 per day. A permittee under the STOPPP Construction permit is required to adhere to all aspects of Chapter 7.39 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.  If the work being 
done involves an encroachment permit, a separate  STOPPP permit is not required since the encroachment permit includes it. 
Type I Projects
Type I Projects are small projects not in the public right-of-way that are generally under 20 cubic yards of soil disturbance (i.e. most residential driveways).  If the work being 
done involves an encroachment permit, a separate STOPPP permit is not required since the encroachment permit includes it. 
Type II Projects
Type II Projects are medium projects generally over 20 cubic yards of soil disturbance, such as installation/removal of swimming pools, demolition/installation of garages, home 
additions, retaining walls, and decks, that do not require a planning application and are reviewed through the building permit process (excluding residential driveways not in the 
public right-of-way). The fee for this type of project is listed above. No deposit is required.
Type III Projects
Type III Projects are medium sized projects over 20 cubic yards of soil disturbance, such as home additions, new single family homes, that require a planning application. The fee 
for a Type III Project is listed above. Type III projects require a minimum refundable deposit for erosion control plan compliance. The minimum deposit is required at plan 
submittal to guarantee to the City that the permitted will comply with the terms and conditions of the permit. At the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be required to 
be added to the deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated inspection fees, as determined by the City. Any portion not expended by the City in its engineering review and 
inspection is refundable. Time billed at $130.00 per hour. Expenses not covered by the deposit will be billed monthly. Bills to be paid in accordance with regular City billing 
processes. Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off of conditions. The deposit will be refunded if permittee has met all requirement in the erosion plan and the City has 
not been required to perform work on permitee’s behalf.
Type I Projects
Type II Projects
Type III and IV Projects
(See Stormwater Pollution Prevention Construction Permit Notes for description of types of projects)
PLUS
Type IV Projects
Type IV Projects are large sized projects, 1 acre or greater. Type IV Projects require a General Permit issued by the State Water Resources Control Board in addition to the City’s 
STOPPP Construction Permit. The STOPPP Construction Permit fee is listed above. Type IV projects required a minimum refundable deposit for erosion control plan compliance. 
The minimum deposit is required at plan submittal for additional plan checking and inspection. At the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be required to be added to the 
deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated inspection fees, as determined by the City. Any portion not expended by the City in its engineering review and inspection is 
refundable. Time billed at $130.00 per hour. Expenses not covered by the deposit will be billed monthly. Bills to be paid in accordance with regular City billing processes. 
Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off of conditions. The deposit will be refunded if permittee has complied with the submitted erosion plan and the City has not been 
required to perform work on permitee’s behalf. 
474 of 509

--- page 475 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
IV. SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMITS (See SMMC 23.40)
A. PROCESSING FEE - non-refundable
Each
$40.00
PLUS
B. ENGINEERING/INSPECTION FEE (deposits) * *
Minimum Deposit
$2,500.00
185 - 1,000 cubic yards
Base Deposit
$1,595.00 $2,500
+ Per 50 c.y. greater than 185
Each Add'l Cubic
 Yard Over 185
$45.00 $4.00
1,001 - 10,000 cubic yards
Base Deposit
$3,653.00 $5,700.00
+ Per 100 c.y. greater than
1,000 Each Add'l Cubic 
Yard Over 1,000
$74.00 $0.30
over 10,000 cubic yards
Base Deposit
$9,618.00 $8,400.00
+ Per 100 c.y. greater than
10,000 Each Add'l Cubic 
Yard Over 10,000
$59.00 $0.25
* *
V.
FINAL MAP-PLAN CHECK/ PROCESSING
A. PARCEL MAPS
Per Map
$4,431.00 $2,436.00
B. FINAL MAPS/CONDO CONVERSIONS SUBDIVISIONS
Per Map
$8,105.00 $2,757.00
C. LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT/MERGERS (by deed)
Each
$2,595.00 $1,596.00
D. CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE
Each
$1,390.00 $532.00
E. ABANDONMENT EASEMENT / RIGHT-OF-WAY
Each Hourly
$8,140.00 $132.00
Minimum Deposit
$2,205.00
VI. REPAIR TO CITY PROPERTY
A. LABOR
Hour
$182.00 $132.00
Hour O/T
$205.00 $198.00
B. CONTRACTOR
Hour
Cost + 5%
C. MATERIAL & EQUIPMENT
Each
Cost + 5%
D. INSPECTION/SURVEY/ ENGINEERING
Hour
$198.00 $132.00
A Site Development Permit shall comply with SMMC 23.40. An application, including required fees, insurance 
and deposits are required.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
The minimum deposits listed are required at plan submittal for plan checking and inspection. At  the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be required to be added 
to the deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated inspection fees, as determined by the City. Any portion not expended by the City in its engineering review and 
inspection is refundable. Time will be billed at $130 per hour. Expenses not covered by the deposit will be billed monthly. Bills to be paid in  accordance with regular City 
billing processes. Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off of conditions.
Equipment rate based on the most recent State "Labor Surcharge and Equipment Rental Rates" book published by 
Caltrans Publications.
475 of 509

--- page 476 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
VII. SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE (Collected by Bldg. Div. w/building permit)
A. RESIDENTIAL
1. Single-family dwelling
Per Connection
$2,680.00
2. Multi-family dwelling
a. Studio, & 1 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$1,340.00
b. 2 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$2,013.00
c. 3 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$2,680.00
3. Hotels or motels
Per Room/Apt
$1,340.00
4. Board or lodging houses
Per Bedroom
$1,340.00
B. NON-RESIDENTIAL
1. Churches
Per Connection
$2,680.00
2. Golf courses
Per Connection
$2,680.00
3. Hospitals
Per Fixture Unit
$131.00
4. Lodges and clubs
Per Fixture Unit
$131.00
5. Rest, residential care & convalescent homes
Per Fixture Unit
$131.00
6. Schools
Per Fixture Unit
$131.00
C. COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL
Per Fixture Unit
$131.00
NOTES:
VII. SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE  (Collected by Bldg. Div. w/building permit)
1.
2.
3.
4.
a.
b.
c.
UNIT
FEE
VII. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE FEES
A. CLASS A WASTE DISCHARGE PERMIT ANNUAL FEE
Each
$687.00 $504.49
B. CLASS B WASTE DISCHARGE PERMIT ANNUAL FEE
Each
$497.00 $348.80
C. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMIT ANNUAL FEE
Each
$343.00 $263.87
D. POLLUTION PREVENTION INSPECTION FEE
Per Hour
$308.00 $147.61
E. INSPECTION/INVESTIGATION FEE
Per Hour
$154.00 $131.43
Per Hour OT
$180.00 $197.15
F. SAMPLING FEE
Per Hour
$154.00 $131.43
Per Hour OT
$180.00 $197.15
G. ANALYTICAL SERVICES FEE
Each
Cost
H. HYDRAULIC LOADING CHARGE
Per 100 Cu. Ft.
Basic Sewer Service 
Charge rate
I.
DEFICIENCY RESULTING IN “SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE”
Each
$452.30 $435.74
J.
FAILURE TO CONDUCT SELF-MONITORING
Per Hour
$136.42 $131.43
K.
Each
$281.25 $270.95
L. ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP/ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCE
1.
Labor
Per Hour
$154.00 $131.43
Per Hour OT
$180.00 $197.15
2.
Material And Equipment
Each
Cost
3.
Contract Services
Each
Cost
M. APPEAL - of decision to issue permit, levy fees, or finding of noncompliance
$2,182.00 $263.00
N.
Each Case
$4,069.00 $2,651.00
The remodeled or new structure will only be assessed a charge for fixture units in excess of those existing, based on the per fixture units identified on the City’s sewer 
connection charge worksheet.
The new plans will be used to determine the number of fixture units in excess of those shown on the demolition plans.
The demolition plans will be used to determine the number of existing fixture units.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH OFFICIAL NOTICE TO CORRECT VIOLATION
VIOLATIONS REQUIRING INSPECTION WARRANT, OR COMMENCEMENT OF CIVIL 
LITIGATION PROCEEDINGS
In the case of Commercial and Industrial users, where the building has been previously occupied and the interior is being demolished or remodeled, the sewer connection 
charge will be computed as follows:
Commercial and Industrial users are also charged at the per fixture unit rate identified on the City’s sewer connection charge worksheet. If the commercial or industrial user 
is constructing a new building the minimum charge is assessed at the time a building permit is issued. The charge is based on the number of fixture units as determined 
based on the Uniform Plumbing Code and the City worksheet. If tenant improvements occur after the initial charge is assessed and paid, the sewer connection charge at that 
point will depend on how many fixture units were actually installed as part of the new building permit. New fixture units will be charged at the per fixture rate identified on 
the City’s sewer connection charge worksheet.
Non-Residential hospitals, lodges and clubs, rest, residential care, convalescent homes, and schools are charged at the per fixture unit rate identified on the City’s sewer 
connection charge worksheet.
The assessment of the sewer connection charge is based on the Uniform Plumbing Code in conjunction with the plumbing fixtures identified on the City’s sewer connection 
charge worksheet. The City charges a minimum connection charge for Residential, Churches and Golf Courses. This minimum charge is based on an average number of 
fixture units per dwelling unit or entity.
476 of 509

--- page 477 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
NOTES:
VII. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE FEES
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
H.
I.
J.
K.
L.
M.
N.
Stormwater Management Permit. A property that is required to install, operate, and maintain stormwater treatment facilities, or maintain parking lots, storm drain inlets, or 
other facilities for stormwater pollution prevention as specified in project conditions, shall obtain a Stormwater Management (SWM) permit from the Director of Public 
Works. (7.39.235). Cost based on 2 hours admin and inspection time per year at standard labor rate.
Failure to Comply with Official Notice to Correct Violation. When an authorized enforcement official finds that a user has violated or is violating this Chapter, or a permit or 
order issued hereunder, the official may serve upon said user a Notice of Violation which enumerates the violations found, and orders compliance by a date certain. 
(7.38.460, 7.39.270); any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter is a threat to the public health, safety and welfare, and is 
declared and deemed a nuisance. (7.38.470, 7.39.280)
Failure to Conduct Self-monitoring. The Director may require that the user conduct a sampling and analysis program of the user’s waste or stormwater discharge of a 
frequency and type required by the Director to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this Chapter. (7.38.360, 7.39.160).
The following fees are intended to help recover the cost of implementation and enforcement of SMMC Chapter 7.38
Hydraulic Loading Charge. The Director may impose upon the user a hydraulic loading charge for discharge of groundwater or other waters in cases where conventional 
sewer service charges applied by the City or District do not account for said flows or uses. User discharges which exceed 10,000 gallons per batch discharge or users 
undertaking long term discharges of groundwater to the sanitary sewer shall be metered and levied a hydraulic loading charge based upon the basic sewer service charge 
rate. (7.38.260)
Class B Discharge Permit. A Class B permit shall be issued, at the discretion of the Director, to any user who is not a significant industrial user, yet requires periodic 
inspection and/or monitoring to verify compliance with this Chapter. A Class B permit may be required for discharge of industrial waste from stationary sources, trucked 
wastes, contaminated groundwater, and other industrial wastes approved by the Director for discharge to the sanitary sewer. (7.38.260). Cost based on 1.5 hours admin and 
inspection time per year at standard labor rate.
Class A Discharge Permit. A Class A permit shall be issued to all significant industrial users (SIU). Class A permit holders are regulated in accordance with the 
requirements specified in the pretreatment regulations, 40 CFR Part 403 and 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471, as amended, and this Chapter. (7.38.260) 
Cost based on 4 hours admin and inspection time per year at standard labor rate.
Inspection/Investigation Fee. Applies to inspection and investigation activities not covered in D. or K. Cost based on standard labor rate.
Sampling Fee. The Director shall have the right to establish on any property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling or metering operations. During all 
inspections as provided herein, the official may take any samples deemed necessary to aid in the pursuit of the inquiry or in the recording of activities on the  site. (7.38.350, 
7.39.140). Cost based standard labor rate.
Deficiency Resulting in “Significant Noncompliance”. At least annually, the Director shall provide public notice in the largest local daily newspaper a list of those significant 
industrial users that, during the previous twelve (12) months, were found in significant noncompliance, as defined in the pretreatment regulations and this Chapter. 
(7.38.420). Cost based on administrative time and cost of publication for 3 days in San Mateo County Times.
Analytical Services Fee. Cost based in service provider cost of service.
Pollution Prevention Inspection Fee. The Director is authorized to conduct all inspection, surveillance, and monitoring procedures necessary to assure compliance with this 
Chapter. The Director may enter without unreasonable delay, during facility hours of operation, any premises of any user in which a potential pollutant discharge source 
exists or in which facility discharge and materials and waste records are kept. Records shall be made available to the Director for inspection and copying. Reasonable times 
for inspection and sampling may include times that are unannounced. (7.38.350, 7.39.140) Cost based on 0.5- hour admin and inspection time per year at standard labor 
rate.
Violations Requiring Inspection Warrant or Commencement of Civil Litigation Proceedings. In the event that the user refuses the Director entry to the premises, inspection 
may be made only upon the issuance of a search warrant by a duly authorized magistrate. In the event that the user refuses entry after the request has been made, the 
Director is hereby empowered to seek assistance from the court in obtaining such entry; Any person who has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this Chapter 
or any order or permit issued hereunder, shall be subject to the imposition of civil penalties pursuant to Chapter 1.11 of this Code. (7.38.350, 7.39.140, 7.38.410, 7.39.200, 
7.38.480, 7.39.290)
Appeal of Decision to Issue Permit, Levy fees, or Finding of Noncompliance. Any person affected by any decision, action or determination, including administrative 
remedies, made in interpreting or implementing the provisions of this Chapter may appeal therefrom to the City of San Mateo Public Works Commission. (7.39.200). Fee is 
refunded if appellant prevails.
Environmental Cleanup/Abatement of Public Nuisance. City may impose a charge upon the user to reimburse the City or District for the cost of cleaning and/or repair of 
City facilities, including mitigation of waste discharge to the storm drainage system; any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this 
Chapter is a threat to the public health, safety and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance., and may be summarily abated and/or restored by the City. The cost of 
such abatement and restoration shall be borne by the owner of the property. (7.38.180, 7.38.470, 7.39.280).
477 of 509

--- page 478 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
VIII. DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES (subject to annual review)
A. WASTEWATER CAPACITY CHARGE
a.
Per Dwelling Unit
$10,399.72 $10,019.00
b.
Per Dwelling Unit
$5,199.34 $5,009.00
Per Dwelling Unit
$8,666.26 $8,349.00
Per Dwelling Unit
$10,399.72 $10,019.00
c.
Per Room/Apartment
$5,199.34 $5,009.00
d.
Per Bedroom
$5,199.34 $5,009.00
e.
Per Square Foot
$5.20 $5.01
a.
Per Meter
$10,399.72 $10,019.00
Per Meter
$11,139.82 $10.732.00
Per Meter
$12,269.16 $11,820.00
b.
Per Meter
$17,332.52 $16,698.00
Per Meter
$18,565.67 $17,886.00
Per Meter
$20,448.60 $19,700.00
c.
Per Meter
$34,665.05 $33,396.00
Per Meter
$37,132.37 $35,773.00
Per Meter
$40,897.20 $39,400.00
d.
Per Meter
$55,463.45 $53,433.00
Per Meter
$59,410.97 $57,236.00
Per Meter
$65,435.52 $63,040.00
e.
Per Meter
$103,994.11 $100,187.00
Per Meter
$111,396.08 $107,318.00
Per Meter
$122,690.56 $118,199.00
f.
Per Meter
$173,323.16 $166,978.00
Per Meter
$185,659.79 $178,863.00
Per Meter
$204,484.96 $196,999.00
g.
Per Meter
$346,646.33 $333,956.00
Per Meter
$371,320.63 $357,727.00
Per Meter
$408,969.92 $393,998.00
h.
Per Meter
$554,633.50 $534,329.00
Per Meter
$594,112.79 $572,363.00
Per Meter
$654,352.09 $630,397.00
a.
Per Gallon Per Day
$80.50 $77.55
b.
Per Pound Per Day
$1,944.71 $1,873.52
c.
Per Pound Per Day
$1,753.51 $1,689.32
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
1. Residential
Class A represents all residential uses, a biological oxygen demand of 200mg/L, and a suspended solids measurement
of 200mg/L
i. Class B
ii. Class C
iii. Class D
Accessory Dwelling Unit
Board or lodging houses
Hotels or motels
2. Commercial/Institutional
The capacity charge for commercial/institutional uses is based on water meter size and wastewater class. *see footnote
below for class explanation*
Meter size of up to 3/4 inch
iii. 3+ bedroom
Single-family
Multi-family
ii. 2 bedroom
i. Studio & 1 bedroom
Meter size of 1 inch
i. Class B
ii. Class C
iii. Class D
Meter size of 2 inches
i. Class B
ii. Class C
iii. Class D
Meter size of 3 inches
i. Class B
ii. Class C
iii. Class D
Meter size of 4 inches
Meter size of 1 inch and 1/2 inch
i. Class B
i. Class B
ii. Class C
iii. Class D
Flow
Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD)
Suspended Solids (SS)
*Wastewater Class Thresholds
●Class B represents standard strength, a biological oxygen demand of 200 mg/L, and a suspended solids measurement of 200 mg/L 
●Class C represents moderate strength, a biological oxygen demand of 400 mg/L, and a suspended solids measurement of 400 mg/L 
●Class D represents high strength, a biological oxygen demand of 800 mg/L, and a suspended solids measurement of 600 mg/L 
ii. Class C
Meter size of 6 inches
i. Class B
ii. Class C
iii. Class D
3. Industrial
The capacity charge for industrial uses is based on estimated wastewater flow and strength.
Meter size of 8 inches
i. Class B
ii. Class C
iii. Class D
iii. Class D
478 of 509

--- page 479 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
VIII. DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES (subject to annual review) (continued)
B. TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE
1.
Residential
a. Single-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$6,867.99 $6,255.00
b. Multi-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$3,468.58 $3,159.00
2.
Commercial and Industrial
a. Retail
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$27,735.48 $25,260.00
b. Office
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$8,366.76 $7,620.00
c. Industrial
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$4,589.64 $4,180.00
d. Hotel
Per Room
$4,367.84 $3,978.00
e. Institution
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$3,568.50 $3,250.00
C.
Per Space
$57,699.90 $52,550.00
IX. NEWSRACK ORDINANCE VIOLATION
A. ABATEMENT FEE
failure to abate violation for Chapter 17.12 of the S.M.M.C.
Per Violation
$69.55 $67.00
B. APPEAL OF ABATEMENT ORDER FEE
(Fee refunded if appellant prevails).
Per Violation
$134.94 $130.00
CENTRAL PARKING IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT PER SPACE IN-LIEU FEE
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
479 of 509

--- page 480 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
X. MISCELLANEOUS FEES
A. PLANS AND SPECS
Per Set
Varies at cost
B. ENGINEERING PHOTOCOPIES - large sizes
24" x 36"
Per Print
Actual Cost $3.74
36" x no. of feet
Per Print
Actual Cost $3.74
C. PHOTOCOPIES
8.5" x 11"
Per Copy
$0.15
8.5" x 14"
Per Copy
Actual Cost $0.20
11" x 17"
Per Copy
Actual Cost $0.30
D. PLOT COPY FEE – subdivision / parcel map
24" x 36"
Per Copy
$40.00
D. HANG BANNER
Per Request
$379.00 $260.00
+ certificate of insurance
E. STREET LIGHT BANNER
Per Pole/ Per Banner
$95.00 $66.00
F. CURB PAINTING:
a.
Review Initial installation (covers two years)
1. Red Tipping
Per Request
$376.00 $177.00
2. Blue Curb (Disabled)
 Per Request 
$376.00 $210.00
3. Yellow Curb (Loading Zone)
Per Request
$284.00 $210.00
4. White Curb (Passenger Loading)
Per Request
$284.00 $210.00
5. Green Curb (Limited-Time)
Per Request
$284.00 $210.00
6. Non-Critical Red Zones
Per Request
$183.00 $210.00
b.
Installation Maintenance Fee (covers two years) is 1/2 of initial installation fee.
1. Red Tipping
Per Request
$189.00
2. Blue Curb (Disabled)
 Per Request 
$474.00
3. Yellow Curb (Loading Zone)
Per Request
$284.00
4. White Curb (Passenger Loading)
Per Request
$189.00
5. Green Curb (Limited-Time)
Per Request
$474.00
6. Non-Critical Red Zones
Per Request
$284.00
G.
Each
$905.00 $431.70
H. WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILTIES PERMIT
1.
Wireless Permits Application Fee
Min Deposit Per Location 
$4,000.00
2.
Master License Agreement Fee
Min Deposit Per New 
Agreement
$1,000.00
Per Hour
$200.00
3.
License Fee for City Pole (subject to 3% annual increase)
Per Location Per Year
$270.00
4.
Section 6409 Permit
Min Deposit Per Location
$2,500.00
5.
Hourly Rate for City Labor/Services
Per Hour
$200.00
I.
Each
$5,000.00
J.
Each
$1,520.00
(Note: Nonprofit organizations may contract with a vendor of their choice to install their banners but an
encroachment permit is required.)
ADDRESS ASSIGNMENT FEE to be charged when assignment is not required as a condition of 
construction; charge for non-essential address changes only.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Request to place a new facility or substantial modification of an existing facility in the public
ROW. This minimum deposit listed is required at the pre-application phase. The deposit will
cover field visits, engineering review of the existing or proposed facilities, inspections during
construction, the cost of hiring an independent consultant with specialized or expert knowledge
in connection with wireless facilities, including, but not limited to: permit application
completeness and/or accuracy, compliance with RF emissions, gap in services, alternative sites
analysis, inspection during construction, and administrative time to process the permit
application. At the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be required to be added to the
deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated, as determined by the City. Any portion
not expended by the City is refundable. Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off.
This fee will cover the development of a Tie-Back Agreement related to tie-backs within the public right-of-
way.
Annual fee for each attachment to a municipality – owned structure in the public right-of-way
(Amendments charged at actual cost per hourly rate)
Request to modify an existing facility in the public ROW. If modifications are deemed
substantial, applicant shall apply for a Minor or Major Permit. This minimum deposit listed is
required at the pre-application phase and will cover field visits, engineering review of the
existing or proposed facilities, inspections during construction, the cost of hiring an
independent consultant with specialized or expert knowledge in connection with wireless
facilities, including, but not limited to: permit application completeness and/or accuracy,
compliance with RF emissions, gap in services, alternative sites analysis, inspections during
construction, and administrative time to process the permit application. At the time of permit
issuance, additional funds may be required to be added to the deposit if the deposit balance is
less than estimated, as determined by the City. Any portion not expended by the City is
refundable. Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off.
SHARED MOBILITY PERMIT APPLICATION FEE
TIE-BACKS IN THE PUBLIC ROW
480 of 509

--- page 481 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
SPECIAL EVENT APPLICATION FEES
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
SPECIAL EVENT FEES FOR SERVICE
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
UNIT
FEE
I. USE FEES -
PUBLIC STREETS AND RIGHT OF WAYS
Daily Use Fees:
Per Day
$100.00
Per Day
$200.00
Television Series/Movies/Pilot and Feature Films
Per Day
$300.00
CIVIC FACILITIES, PARKS, SPECIAL USE AREAS (for all uses)
Per Hour
$50.00
II. SUPPORT SERVICES FEES
III. DEPOSIT
Regular rates for personnel who may be required to prepare specialized logistic plans in support of the event
Actual costs for consumable supplies, e.g. parking meter signs, garbage bags, etc., used in support of the event
Actual cost for specialized services contracted by the City that are required to support the event
$230 - For High Impact events sponsored by non-profits. A high impact event means a special event meeting two or more of the following criteria: 1) Being held for the first 
time; 2) expected to draw more than 500 participants; 3) held on a recurring basis; 4) requiring the support of 2 or more city departments; 5) following a route with a   
different start and finish; 6) requiring a street closure; or 7) requiring interagency coordination.
$500 – For Low Impact events sponsored by a commercial or for profit business. A low impact event means any event other than a high impact event.
$1,000 – For High Impact events sponsored by a commercial or for profit business. See above for definition of a High Impact event.
Depending on the nature of the special event, applicable fees may include some or all of the following:
All businesses shall submit a refundable deposit in the amount of $1,000.00 at the time fees are due and payable to cover any unanticipated support services fees, 
property damage repair, etc.
Videos/Travel/Documentary/Still Photography/Industrial Commercials
Filming fees shall apply to commercial businesses desiring to film on public streets, right of ways or within city owned facilities, including parks, civic facilities and buildings or 
special use areas, such as Poplar Creek Golf Course.  Prior to the granting of a permit, all businesses shall comply with all applicable policies and procedures, including, but not 
limited to, evidence of insurance, permits and licenses, and appropriate hold harmless language.
Any filming use that requires any of the following, shall be billed in accordance with the guidelines outlined within the Special Community Events Permit Fee 
section, Category C designation; i.e. for-profit businesses or non-tax exempt organizations:
Fees for use of City equipment, consumable supplies, preparation of specialized logistic plans, specialized contracted services and on-duty personnel will be billed at 
cost, plus a 25% administrative overhead fee.
Fees for use of overtime personnel shall be calculated at the top step prevailing overtime rate for the classification(s) utilized plus a 25% administrative overhead 
SPECIAL COMMUNITY EVENTS PERMIT
COMMERCIAL FILMING FEES
FEE CATEGORY
Overtime rates for personnel not regularly on duty who are required to work the event
Fair market value charges for utilization of City equipment and/or vehicles used in support of the event
No Fee-For events open to the general public, sponsored by a non-profit organization that are not for fundraising purposes, where no registration or admission fee is 
charged, no donations or contributions are solicited or where no money exchanges hands.
$100 - For Low Impact events sponsored by a non-profit. A low impact event means any event other than a high impact event.
481 of 509

--- page 482 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
A. WASTEWATER CAPACITY CHARGE
1. Residential
Class A represents all residential uses, a biological oxygen demand of 200mg/L, and a suspended solids
measurement of 200mg/L
a.  Single-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$10,399.72 $10,019.00
b. Multi-family
i. Studio & 1 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$5,199.34 $5,009.00
ii. 2 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$8,666.26 $8,349.00
iii. 3+ bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$10,399.72 $10,019.00
c. Hotels or motels
Per Room/Apartment
$5,199.34 $5,009.00
d. Board or lodging houses
Per Bedroom
$5,199.34 $5,009.00
e. Accessory Dwelling Unit
Per Square Foot
$5.20 $5.01
2. Commercial/Institutional
The capacity charge for commercial/institutional uses is based on water meter size and wastewater class. *see
footnote below for class explanation*
a.  Meter size of up to 3/4 inch
i.  Class B
Per Meter
$10,399.72 $10,019.00
ii.  Class C
Per Meter
$11,139.82 $10.732.00
iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$12,269.16 $11,820.00
b. Meter size of 1 inch
i.  Class B
Per Meter
$17,332.52 $16,698.00
ii.  Class C
Per Meter
$18,565.67 $17,886.00
iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$20,448.60 $19,700.00
c.  Meter size of 1 and 1/2 inch
i.  Class B
Per Meter
$34,665.05 $33,396.00
ii.  Class C
Per Meter
$37,132.37 $35,773.00
iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$40,897.20 $39,400.00
d. Meter size of 2 inches
i.  Class B
Per Meter
$55,463.45 $53,433.00
ii.  Class C
Per Meter
$59,410.97 $57,236.00
iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$65,435.52 $63,040.00
e.  Meter size of 3 inches
i.  Class B
Per Meter
$103,994.11 $100,187.00
ii.  Class C
Per Meter
$111,396.08 $107,318.00
iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$122,690.56 $118,199.00
f.  Meter size of 4 inches
i.  Class B
Per Meter
$173,323.16 $166,978.00
ii.  Class C
Per Meter
$185,659.79 $178,863.00
iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$204,484.96 $196,999.00
g. Meter size of 6 inches
i.  Class B
Per Meter
$346,646.33 $333,956.00
ii.  Class C
Per Meter
$371,320.63 $357,727.00
iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$408,969.92 $393,998.00
h. Meter size of 8 inches
i.  Class B
Per Meter
$554,633.50 $534,329.00
ii.  Class C
Per Meter
$594,112.79 $572,363.00
iii.  Class D
Per Meter
$654,352.09 $630,397.00
3.  Industrial
The capacity charge for industrial uses is based on estimated wastewater flow and strength.
a.  Flow
Per Gallon Per Day
$80.50 $77.55
b. Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD)
Per Pound Per Day
$1,944.71 $1,873.52
c.  Suspended Solids (SS)
Per Pound Per Day
$1,753.51 $1,689.32
IMPACT, IN-LIEU, AND LINKAGE FEES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES (subject to annual review)
*Wastewater Class Thresholds
●Class B represents standard strength, a biological oxygen demand of 200 mg/L, and a suspended solids measurement of 200 mg/L 
●Class C represents moderate strength, a biological oxygen demand of 400 mg/L, and a suspended solids measurement of 400 mg/L 
●Class D represents high strength, a biological oxygen demand of 800 mg/L, and a suspended solids measurement of 600 mg/L 
482 of 509

--- page 483 ---
UNIT
FEE
IMPACT, IN-LIEU, AND LINKAGE FEES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
I.
B. TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE
1. Residential
a.  Single-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$6,867.99 $6,255.00
b. Multi-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$3,468.58 $3,159.00
2. Commercial and Industrial
a.  Retail
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$27,735.48 $25,260.00
b. Office
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$8,366.76 $7,620.00
c.  Industrial
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$4,589.64 $4,180.00
d. Hotel
Per Room
$4,367.84 $3,978.00
e. Institution
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$3,568.50 $3,250.00
C.
Per Space
$57,699.90 $52,550.00
II.
Each
1.19% of valuation
III.
Per Tree
$740.00
A.
Single Family
$29,598.00
Multi-family 2-4 Units
$27,172.00
Multi-family 5+ Units
$20,476.00
Mobile Homes
$17,564.00
IV. CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE
A. Residential
1. Single-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$4,412.54 $4,251.00
2. Multi-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$3,182.51 $3,066.00
B. Commercial
1. Retail
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.37 $0.36
2. Office
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.63 $0.61
3. Industrial
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.21 $0.20
4. Hotel
Per Sq. Ft.
$0.13
V. COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEE
(City Council  adopted September 16, 2016 - effective November 16, 2016)
New commercial construction in excess of 5,000 sq. ft.
Exempts public uses such as hospitals, nonprofit and government facilities, churches, schools and child 
care centers. Developers who enter written agreements to pay area standard wages to all construction 
workers on the project are entitled to a 25% reduction of the fee. Additionally, developers may provide 
construction of affordable housing units in lieu of the fee payment.
A. HOTELS
Per Sq. Ft.
$12.46 $11.35
B. RETAIL, RESTAURANTS, AND SERVICES
Per Sq. Ft.
$6.23 $5.68
C. OFFICE, RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT USES, AND MEDICAL OFFICES
Per Sq. Ft.
$31.14 $28.36
VI.
A. In Lieu Fees for Fractional Units
1. Rental
0.1 Housing Unit
$30,788.00 $27,352.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$61,577.00 $54,704.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$92,365.00 $82,056.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$123,153.00 $109,408.00
2. Owner
0.1 Housing Unit
$27,354.00 $23,737.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$54,708.00 $47,473.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$82,062.00 $71,210.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$109,416.00 $94,947.00
B. In Lieu Fee for Projects Less than 11 Units
1. Rental
5 Unit Project
$153,942.00 $136,760.00
6 Unit Project
$184,730.00 $164,112.00
7 Unit Project
$215,519.00 $191,464.00
8 Unit Project
$246,307.00 $218,816.00
9 Unit Project
$277,095.00 $246,168.00
10 Unit Project
$307,884.00 $273,520.00
2. Owner
5 Unit Project
$136,770.00 $118,683.00
6 Unit Project
$164,124.00 $142,420.00
7 Unit Project
$191,478.00 $166,156.00
8 Unit Project
$218,832.00 $189,893.00
9 Unit Project
$246,186.00 $213,630.00
10 Unit Project
$273,540.00 $237,366.00
PARK AND LANDSCAPE RESOURCES
PARK IN-LIEU FEE / PARK IMPACT FEE FOR RESIDENTIAL PLANNING APPLICATION 
PROJECTS INVOLVING PARCEL MAPS, SUBDIVISION AND OTHER MULTI-FAMILY 
RESIDENTIAL PROJECTS.
Tree Replacement Cost (24" Box Tree)
BELOW MARKET RATE HOUSING FEE
A fee in lieu of constructing affordable housing units onsite per Below Market Rate program:
ART IN PUBLIC PLACE FEE
The fee is applicable to commercial and multi-family residential projects exceeding three (3) million dollars in 
CENTRAL PARKING IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT PER SPACE IN-LIEU FEE
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES (subject to annual review) (continued)
483 of 509

--- page 484 ---
Att - 4
I
II
ANNUAL GENERAL FUND
ANNUAL OTHER FUNDS
New Fees
New Fees
Parks & Recreation - Facility Rental Fees
-
$                               
Flat Fee Encroachment Permits
-
$                               
Increase in Excess of CPI
Increase in Excess of CPI
Police - Outside Detail Rates
-
$                              
Below Market Rate Housing
200,000.00
$         
Parks & Recreation Facility Rental Fees
-
$                              
Commercial Linkage Fees
4,000,000.00
$    
Encroachment Permits
-
$                              
Site Development Permits
-
$                              
Final Map-Plan Check/Processing
-
$                              
Repair to City Property - Labor
-
$                              
Environmental Compliance Fees
-
$                              
Miscellaneous Fees
-
$                              
General Fund Total:
-
$                             
Other Funds Total:
4,200,000
$        
SUMMARY OF FISCAL IMPACTS
484 of 509

--- page 485 ---
Proposed Fee
or Deposit
Cost Methodology
Annual Revenue 
Estimate
Parks & Recreation
 $              100.00 This is a new fee for the purpose of allowing access and providing oversight and 
permission to an external party to enter a park and accomplish work on private 
property or utility easements. This permit would ensure that the Parks Division 
have awareness of  work taking place and can implement a consistent protocol, 
to ensure that the City is protected in the event of an accident. 
-
$                            
 $                 50.00 Fee creation based on an increase in demand to field users in priority group 3/4 
who independently host camps or clinics to more accurately reflect the market 
rate.
-
$                            
 $                 60.00 Fee creation based on an increase in demand to field users in priority group 3/4 
who independently host camps or clinics to more accurately reflect the market 
rate.
-
$                            
 $                 40.00 Fee creation based on an increase in demand to field users in priority group 3/4 
who independently host camps or clinics to more accurately reflect the market 
rate.
-
$                            
 $                 50.00 Fee creation based on an increase in demand to field users in priority group 3/4 
who independently host camps or clinics to more accurately reflect the market 
rate.
-
$                            
 $                 12.00 Designation between patron reservation for a court and a private rental for a 
court.  Suggested fee increase is below comparable tennis court rental fees, but 
moving fees closer to market rate.
-
$                            
 $                 50.00 King Gymnasium is now rentable as a standalone rental.  Before was only 
rentable as an add-on to an existing building rental. Suggested fee increase is 
below comparable sized gym fees, but moving fees closer to market rate.
-
$                            
 $                 63.00 Same as #6.  Includes the 25% difference in price between Res/Non-Res rates 
for facility rentals.
-
$                            
Public Works
 $                 40.00 The Matrix Fee Study was completed in 2021 and identified new PW User fees 
for provided services in order to recover costs.
-
$                            
 $           1,520.00 The Matrix Fee Study was completed in 2021 and identified new PW User fees 
for provided services in order to recover costs.
-
$                            
Estimated Annual Revenue:
-
$                           
Item
SUMMARY OF NEW FEES:  2022-23
Camp or Clinic Fee - Baseball/Softball (Grass)
Camp or Clinic Fee - Soccer (Turf)
Camp or Clinic Fee - Soccer (Grass)
Temporary Park Access Permit
Flat Fee Encroachment Permits - Tie-Backs in the 
Public ROW
King Gymnasium - Non Resident
King Gymnasium - Resident
Tennis Court Rental (School or COSM Contracted 
Instructor)
Camp or Clinic Fee - Baseball/Softball (Turf)
Flat Fee Encroachment Permits - Time Extension
485 of 509

--- page 486 ---
Item
Current Fee
Proposed Fee
or Deposit
Cost Methodology
Annual Revenue 
Estimate
CDD
Below Market Rate Housing
Various
Various
Per resolution 12 (2020) Council approved increased BMR fees on 2/3/20 based on 
updated economic analysis prepared by Economic and Planning Systems, Inc. EPS has 
provided a formula to use to update these fees for future years starting in 2021 based on 
change in construction costs using Engineering News Record, and changes in affordable 
housing pricing which is based on median income, since CPI will not be an appropriate 
index. The fee is now seperated for rental housing and ownership housing which 
increased from the current fee by 12.6% and 15.2 % respectively. ( Special Fund 30)
 $                  200,000.00 
Commerical Linkage Fee
Hotels
11.35
$           
12.46
$                
Retail, Restaraunts, and Services
5.68
$              
6.23
$                   
Office, Research & Development
28.36
$           
31.14
$                
Parks & Recreation
Beresford - Shelter
200.00
$        
220.00
$             
Ryder Park - Entire Area
200.00
$        
210.00
$             
Central outdoor stage/grass area in front of stage
50.00
$          
55.00
$               
Priority 3-4 - Weekday and Half Day
20.00
$          
30.00
$               
Priority 3-4 - Weekend/Holiday Full Day 
40.00
$          
50.00
$               
Light Charges
25.00
$          
28.00
$               
Fields - Unlocked Soccer Goal Fee 
25.00
$          
30.00
$               
Price adjusted as there has been an increase in field permittees leaving soccer goals 
San Mateo High School Gymnasium Rentals - Gym
75.00
$           
100.00
$              
Price adjusted to reflect market value and price of SMUHSD at $182-$234 and similar 
facilities.
San Mateo High School Gymnasium Rentals - Dance
35.00
$          
40.00
$               
Price adjusted to reflect market value and price of SMUHSD at $51 - $63
San Mateo High School Gymnasium Rentals - Multi-Purpose
35.00
$          
40.00
$               
Price adjusted to reflect market value and price of SMUHSD at $52 - $67
Golf Course General, Resident, and Junior Fees
Various
Various
Prices adjusted to reflect the market value based on price comparisons of other public 
golf courses in the surrounding areas
Police
Outside Detail Rates
Various
Various
Rates charged are updated per the salary schedule based on the top step and known 
negotiated salary increases which will be effective July 1, 2022
 $                                      -   
Public Works
Encroachment Permits
Various
Various
Site Development Permits
Various
Various
Final Map-Plan Check/Processing
Various
Various
Repair to City Property
Various
Various
Environmental Compliance Fees
Various
Various
Miscellaneous Fees
Various
Various
Curb Painting
Various
Various
Estimated Revenues:
4,200,000.00
$             
$                                      -   
SUMMARY OF FEES IN EXCESS OF CPI:  2022-23
$                                      -   
The Matrix Fee Study was completed in 2021 and increased PW User fees in excess of 
CPI for full cost recovery. 
Per resolution 84 (2016) Council may review and revise this fee from time to time. In 
absence of Council action,  the fee shall be adjusted annually based on the % increase in 
Construction Cost Index (CCI) for San Francisco as reported in Engineering News 
 
Record. The CCI increase for this period is 9.8%.  Special Fund 34
 $               4,000,000.00 
Price adjusted to reflect market value and price of similar cities
486 of 509

--- page 487 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  18
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 22-5922
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
April 18, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Ordinance Introduction – Military Equipment Policy
RECOMMENDATION:
Introduce an Ordinance to establish a Military Equipment Policy in accordance with state law.
BACKGROUND:
On September 30, 2021, California Assembly Bill 481 (AB 481) was signed into law, relating to the use of military 
equipment by law enforcement agencies.  The text of AB 481 and resultant sections of California Government Code are 
attached for reference (Attachment 2).  AB 481 requires law enforcement agencies obtain approval from their governing 
body, by ordinance, to adopt a military equipment policy, prior to taking certain actions relating to the funding, acquisition 
or use of military equipment as defined.  Staff is seeking City Council approval of the San Mateo Police Department’s Draft 
Military Equipment Policy (Exhibit A to Attachment 1), by ordinance, to allow continued use of the vital equipment 
specified therein. 
The San Mateo Police Department does not possess any tactical equipment that it has obtained from the military, nor does 
it possess any equipment that was designed for military use.  The term “military equipment,” as defined in AB 481, 
encompasses many items utilized as component of overall best practices by law enforcement agencies, which are 
employed specifically to reduce risk to community members.  The list includes, but is not limited to unmanned aerial or 
ground vehicles, armored vehicles, command and control vehicles, chemical agents, less-lethal shotguns, less-lethal 40mm 
projectile launchers, distraction devices and long-range acoustic devices.  These items provide peace officers the ability to 
safely resolve volatile situations and are vital tools that facilitate compliance with our stringent use of force policy. These 
tools have been tested in the field, and are used to enhance citizen and officer safety. The equipment utilized by SMPD, as 
well as the capabilities, purpose/authorized uses, legal/procedural rules governing use, and training required to staff prior 
to use are detailed as required by Government Code in the proposed Military Equipment Policy.  
The Police Department is not requesting to purchase any new equipment.  Much of the existing relevant equipment was 
acquired a long time ago and has been utilized for many years.  Future acquisition of any military equipment, as defined, 
will require a further public meeting, policy update and City Council approval.  In compliance with Government Code, the 
policy sets forth transparency, oversight and accountability measures including establishing that the Police Department is 
responsible for preparing an Annual Military Equipment Report which will be posted on the City website and shared with 
the community via a public, noticed meeting, and delivered to the City Council annually to confirm compliance.
It is recommended the City Council introduce the proposed Ordinance which approves the Military Equipment Policy and 
makes determinations required by Government Code including that the military equipment is necessary because there is 
no reasonable alternative that can achieve the same objective of officer and civilian safety; and that the proposed Military 
487 of 509

--- page 488 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Equipment Policy will safeguard the public’s welfare, safety, civil rights and civil liberties.  The draft Military Equipment 
Policy is consistent with the requirements of AB 481.  The policy was posted on the San Mateo Police Department’s page 
of the City website on March 15, 2022, in accordance with Government Code requiring publication at least 30 days prior to 
this meeting.  The second reading and proposed adoption of the Ordinance would take place on May 2, 2022.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance
Att 2 – Assembly Bill 481 
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Dave Peruzzaro, Police Captain
dperuzzaro@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7684
488 of 509

--- page 489 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
DRAFT ORDINANCE 
AN UNCODIFIED ORDINANCE REGARDING POLICE ACQUISITION AND USE OF MILITARY EQUIPMENT 
WHEREAS, on September 30, 2021, Governor Gavin Newsom signed into law Assembly Bill 481 (AB 481), 
relating to the use of military equipment by law enforcement agencies, and is codified at California Government 
Code sections 7070 through 7075; and 
 
WHEREAS, prior to taking certain actions relating to the funding, acquisition, or use of military 
equipment, as defined in Government Code section 7070, AB 481 requires the San Mateo Police Department to 
obtain City Council approval of an ordinance adopting a military equipment use policy at a regular meeting held 
pursuant to open meeting laws; and 
 
WHEREAS, AB 481 allows the City Council to approve the funding, acquisition, or use of military 
equipment within its jurisdiction only if it makes specified determinations; and 
 
WHEREAS, the proposed military equipment use policy is found within San Mateo Police Department 
(SMPD) Policy 709, attached hereto as Exhibit A; and 
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with Government Code section 7071(b), SMPD Policy 709 was published on 
the SMPD website on March 15, 2022, more than thirty days before presentation of the policy to the City 
Council on April 18, 2022; and  
 
WHEREAS, SMPD Policy 709 complies with Government Code section 7070(d), which sets forth the 
requirements of a military equipment use policy.   
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS: 
Section 1. CEQA. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines section 15378, this 
action is not a project because adopting an ordinance to approve a military equipment use policy is an 
organizational or administrative activity that will not result in any direct or indirect physical changes in the 
environment.      
Section 2. Incorporation of Recitals.  The recitals set forth above are hereby incorporated into this ordinance as 
if fully set forth herein.  
Section 3. Findings and Determinations.  Based on the recitals set forth above, in addition to information 
provided to the City Council at the public meeting, the City Council finds and determines that: 
(a) The military equipment identified in SMPD Policy 709 is necessary because there are no reasonable 
alternatives that can achieve the same objectives of officer and civilian safety. 
(b) SMPD Policy 709 will safeguard the public’s welfare, safety, civil rights, and civil liberties. 
Section 4. Approval of Military Equipment Use Policy.  SMPD Policy 709, attached hereto as Exhibit A and 
incorporated by reference, is hereby approved and adopted.   
489 of 509

--- page 490 ---
Section 5. Annual Review of Ordinance and Military Equipment Report.  The City Council will review this 
ordinance at least annually, and at that time vote on whether to renew the ordinance at a regular meeting.  An 
annual military equipment report shall also be submitted to the City Council after making the report publicly 
available on a City internet website and following community outreach, all in accordance with state law. 
Section 6. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined invalid 
or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect. 
Section 7. Publication. This ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter. 
Section 8. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit A – SMPD Policy 709 
490 of 509

--- page 491 ---
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2022/03/13, All Rights Reserved. 
Published with permission by San Mateo Police Department 
***DRAFT*** 
Military Equipment - 1 
San Mateo Police Department 
POLICIES 
Military Equipment 
709.1 PURPOSE, SCOPE AND PHILOSOPHY 
This policy establishes guidelines for the acquisition, funding, use and reporting of "military 
equipment", as the term is defined in Government Code section 7070. This policy is provided 
to fulfill the obligations set forth in Assembly Bill No. 481 (2021) (AB 481). These obligations 
include but are not limited to seeking approval on specific items deemed to be military equipment 
and requirements related to compliance, annual reporting, cataloging, and complaints regarding 
these items. 
It is the policy of the San Mateo Police Department (Department) that there are legally enforceable 
safeguards, including transparency, oversight, and accountability measures in place to protect the 
public's welfare, safety, civil rights, and civil liberties before military equipment is funded, acquired, 
or used. 
The acquisition of military equipment and its deployment in our communities may impact the 
public's safety and welfare. AB 481 has declared that the public has a right to know about any 
funding, acquisition, or use of military equipment by local government officials, as well as a right 
to participate in any government agency's decision to fund, acquire, or use such equipment. 
Decisions regarding whether and how military equipment is funded, acquired, or used should give 
strong consideration to the public's welfare, safety, civil rights, and civil liberties, and should be 
based on meaningful public input. 
709.1.1 DEFINITIONS 
Definitions related to this policy include (Government Code § 7070): 
Governing body – The City Council. 
Military equipment – Includes but is not limited to the following: 
•
Unmanned, remotely piloted, powered aerial or ground vehicles.
•
Mine-resistant ambush-protected (MRAP) vehicles or armored personnel carriers.
•
High mobility multipurpose wheeled vehicles (HMMWV), two-and-one-half-ton trucks,
five-ton trucks, or wheeled vehicles that have a breaching or entry apparatus attached.
•
Tracked armored vehicles that provide ballistic protection to their occupants.
•
Command and control vehicles that are either built or modified to facilitate the
operational control and direction of public safety units.
•
Weaponized aircraft, vessels, or vehicles of any kind.
•
Battering rams, slugs, and breaching apparatuses that are explosive in nature. This
does not include a handheld, one-person ram.
•
Firearms and ammunition of .50 caliber or greater, excluding standard-issue shotguns
and standard-issue shotgun ammunition.
•
Specialized firearms and ammunition of less than .50 caliber, including firearms and
accessories identified as assault weapons in Penal Code § 30510 and Penal Code §
30515, with the exception of standard-issue firearms.
Policy 
709 
DRAFT 
EXHIBIT A
491 of 509

--- page 492 ---
San Mateo Police Department 
POLICIES 
Military Equipment 
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2022/03/13, All Rights Reserved. 
Published with permission by San Mateo Police Department 
***DRAFT*** 
Military Equipment - 2 
 
 
DRAFT 
 
 
• 
Any firearm or firearm accessory that is designed to launch explosive projectiles. 
• 
Noise-flash diversionary devices and explosive breaching tools. 
• 
Munitions containing tear gas or OC, excluding standard, service-issued handheld 
pepper spray. 
• 
TASER® Shockwave, microwave weapons, water cannons, and long-range acoustic 
devices (LRADs). 
• 
Kinetic energy weapons and munitions. 
• 
Any other equipment as determined by the governing body or a state agency to require 
additional oversight. 
 
709.2 POLICY 
It is the policy of the San Mateo Police Department that members of this Department comply with 
the provisions of Government Code § 7071 with respect to military equipment. 
 
709.3 MILITARY EQUIPMENT COORDINATOR 
The Chief of Police shall designate a member of this Department to act as the military equipment 
coordinator. The responsibilities of the military equipment coordinator include but are not limited to: 
(a) 
Acting as liaison to the governing body for matters related to the requirements of this 
policy. 
(b) 
Identifying Department equipment that qualifies as military equipment in the current 
possession of the Department, or the equipment the Department intends to acquire 
that requires approval by the governing body. 
(c) 
Conducting an inventory of all military equipment at least annually. 
(d) 
Collaborating with any allied agency that may use military equipment within the 
jurisdiction of San Mateo Police Department (Government Code § 7071). 
(e) 
Preparing for, scheduling, and coordinating the annual community engagement 
meeting to include: 
1. 
Publicizing the details of the meeting. 
2. 
Preparing for public questions regarding the Department's funding, acquisition, 
and use of military equipment. 
(f) 
Preparing the annual military equipment report for submission to the Chief of Police 
and ensuring that the report is made available on the Department website (Government 
Code § 7072). 
(g) 
Establishing the procedure for a person to register a complaint or concern, or how that 
person may submit a question about the use of a type of military equipment, and how 
the Department will respond in a timely manner. 
 
709.4 MILITARY EQUIPMENT INVENTORY 
The list of qualifying equipment for the Department is set forth in Attachment A.    
 
492 of 509

--- page 493 ---
San Mateo Police Department 
POLICIES 
Military Equipment 
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2022/03/13, All Rights Reserved. 
Published with permission by San Mateo Police Department 
***DRAFT*** 
Military Equipment - 3 
 
 
DRAFT 
709.5 APPROVAL 
The Chief of Police or the authorized designee shall obtain approval from the governing body by 
way of an ordinance adopting the military equipment policy. As part of the approval process, the 
Chief of Police or the authorized designee shall ensure the proposed military equipment policy 
is submitted to the governing body and is available on the department website at least 30 days 
prior to any public hearing or ordinance introduction concerning the military equipment at issue 
(Government Code § 7071). The military equipment policy must be approved by the governing 
body prior to engaging in any of the following (Government Code § 7071): 
(a) 
Requesting military equipment made available pursuant to 10 USC § 2576a. 
(b) 
Seeking funds for military equipment, including but not limited to applying for a grant, 
soliciting or accepting private, local, state, or federal funds, in-kind donations, or other 
donations or transfers. 
(c) 
Acquiring military equipment either permanently or temporarily, including by borrowing 
or leasing. 
(d) 
Collaborating with another law enforcement agency in the deployment or other use of 
military equipment within the jurisdiction of this department. 
(e) 
Using any new or existing military equipment for a purpose, in a manner, or by a person 
not previously approved by the governing body. 
(f) 
Soliciting or responding to a proposal for, or entering into an agreement with, any other 
person or entity to seek funds for, apply to receive, acquire, use, or collaborate in the 
use of military equipment. 
(g) 
Acquiring military equipment through any means not provided above. 
 
709.6 USE IN EXIGENT CIRCUMSTANCES 
 
In exigent circumstances and with the approval of the Chief of Police or his/her designee, the 
Police Department may acquire, borrow and/or use military equipment that is not included in this 
policy.  
 
If the Department acquires, borrows, and/or uses military equipment in exigent circumstances, in 
accordance with this section, it must take all of the following actions: 
• 
Provide written notice of that acquisition or use to the City Council within 30 days following 
the commencement of such exigent circumstance, unless such information is confidential or 
privileged under local, state or federal law. 
• 
If it is anticipated that the use will continue beyond the exigent circumstance, submit a 
proposed amended policy to the City Council within 90 days following the borrowing, 
acquisition and/or use, and receive approval, as applicable, from the City Council. 
• 
Include the military equipment in the Department’s next annual military equipment report. 
 
 
709.7 COORDINATION WITH OTHER JURISDICTIONS 
Absent exigent circumstances, military equipment should not be used by any other law 
enforcement agency or member in this jurisdiction unless the military equipment is approved for 
use in accordance with this policy. 
 
493 of 509

--- page 494 ---
San Mateo Police Department 
POLICIES 
Military Equipment 
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2022/03/13, All Rights Reserved. 
Published with permission by San Mateo Police Department 
***DRAFT*** 
Military Equipment - 4 
 
 
DRAFT 
 
709.8 ANNUAL REPORT 
Upon approval of a military equipment policy, the Chief of Police or the authorized designee shall 
submit a military equipment report to the governing body for each type of military equipment 
approved within one year of approval, and annually thereafter for as long as the military equipment 
is available for use (Government Code § 7072). 
The Chief of Police or the authorized designee should also make each annual military equipment 
report publicly available on the department website for as long as the military equipment is 
available for use. The report shall include all information required by Government Code § 7072 
for the preceding calendar year for each type of military equipment in department inventory. 
 
709.9 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 
Within 30 days of submitting and publicly releasing the annual report, the Department shall hold 
at least one well-publicized and conveniently located community engagement meeting, at which 
the Department should discuss the report and respond to public questions regarding the funding, 
acquisition, or use of military equipment. 
 
494 of 509

--- page 495 ---
DRAFT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          ATTACHMENT A 
AB 481 (attachment list 709.4) 
MILITARY USE EQUIPMENT 
 
1. Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS):  An unmanned aircraft along with the associated equipment 
necessary to control it remotely. 
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities, and purchase cost of current UAS:  
i. Matrice 210, cost $15,000, quantity 1: The DJI Matrice 210 is a powerful, 
industrial-grade fight platform with world-class agility and speed, two 
barometers, and redundant IMUs for maximum reliability, and new smart flight 
features that make capturing complex shots easy. The aircraft’s visual sensors 
enable enhanced hovering precision even when flying indoors or in 
environments where GNSS is unavailable. The drone’s new airframe design gives 
it an IP43 Ingress Protection Rating, in accordance with the global IEC 60529 
standard. The M210/M210 RTK’s mechanical design, along with quick release 
landing gears and mounted folding arms, makes it easy to transport, store, and 
prepare for flight.   
ii. Mavik II Enterprise, cost $5,000.00, quantity 1: The DJI Mavic II Enterprise 
features omnidirectional Vision Systems and Infrared Sensing Systems, and 
comes with a fully stabilized 3-axis gimbal camera with an equivalent 24-48 mm 
2x optical enterprise lens capable of shooting 4k videos and 12 megapixel 
photos that support up to 6x FHD zoom. DJI signature tecUologies such as 
Obstacle Sensing and the Advanced Pilot Assistance System, help you capture 
complex shots effortlessly. Additional features like the built in AirSense make 
you aware of your surrounding airspace, and password protection helps you 
maintain secure access to your aircraft and protect your data. The Mavic II 
Enterprise also has attachable modular accessories like the M2E spotlight, M2E 
Beacon, and M2E Speaker that are purpose built for various applications. The 
Mavic II Enterprise boasts a maximum flight speed of 44.7 mph and a maximum 
flight time of 31 minutes. 
iii. Sky Hero Loki MkII, quantity 2, cost $10,000.00 (for kit of 2): The Loki MkII is the 
most incredible indoor small tactical UAV system in the world, fully purpose 
built for close quarter, under roof, tactical scouting missions. Operating in 
congested and dark environment, its purpose is to place a microphone and a 
camera practically anywhere to collect critical life-saving intelligence of 
immediate threats ahead of a team. It enables reliable and rapid situational 
awareness for precise decision making, while maximizing the team’s safety. 
b. Purpose and authorized use:  UAS/Drones and robots may be utilized to enhance 
the Department’s mission of protecting lives and property when other means and 
resources are not available or are less effective.  Any use of SMPD drones will be for 
official law enforcement purposes, and in a manner that respects the privacy of our 
community.  Uses may include but are not limited to: search and rescue; suspect 
apprehension; crime scene documentation; tactical operations; scene security; hazard 
495 of 509

--- page 496 ---
DRAFT 
monitoring, identification and mitigation; response to emergency calls; crisis 
communications; legally authorized surveillance. 
c. Fiscal Impact:  Varies depending on replacement parts and re-occurring costs due to 
software associated with the drone program $1,000.00 to $2,500.00. 
d. Legal and procedural rules:  Any use of a UAS will be in strict accordance with 
constitutional and privacy rights and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulations. 
The use of the UAS potentially involves privacy considerations. Absent a warrant or 
exigent circumstances, operators and observers shall adhere to FAA altitude regulations 
and shall not intentionally record or transmit images of any location where a person 
would have a reasonable expectation of privacy (e.g., residence, yard, enclosure). 
Operators and observers shall take reasonable precautions to avoid inadvertently 
recording or transmitting images of areas where there is a reasonable expectation of 
privacy. Reasonable precautions can include, for example, deactivating or turning 
imaging devices away from such areas or persons during UAS operations. 
e. Required training:  Prior to piloting any UAS/Drone staff members must secure an FAA 
Remote Pilot License and complete all training required by our FAA certificate or 
authorization. For the ground vehicles agency-authored orientation course with annual 
refresher training. 
f. Lifespan: All UAS equipment, 5-7 years. 
 
2. Robots: Unmanned remotely operated machines on the ground utilized to enhance the safety to 
the community and officers. 
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities, and purchase cost: 
i. Robotex Avatar II, cost $14,000, quantity 3: The AVATAR® enhances the 
capabilities of SWAT and tactical response teams by allowing them to quickly 
and safely inspect dangerous situations, there is no longer a need to send 
personnel in before you’ve had a chance to assess the situation. The AVATAR® 
saves lives by keeping first responders out of harm’s way, and it does so at a 
fraction of the price of other robots. 
ii. iRobot packbot 510, cost $0.00, quantity 1: The 510 PackBot is a multi-mission 
tactical mobile robot developed and manufactured by iRobot. It is designed for 
use by warfighters and first responders to carry out dangerous missions in high-
threat battlefield scenarios. The 510 PackBot can perform surveillance and 
reconnaissance, chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) detection, 
building and route clearance, explosive ordnance disposal (EOD), HazMat 
handling, improvised explosives device (IED) detection, checkpoint, and vehicle 
and personnel inspections. It can be easily configured based on the operators’ 
mission needs. 
iii. Recon robotics recon scout, cost $0.00, quantity 1: The Throwbot® 2 (TB2) robot 
is a throwable micro-robot platform that enables operators to obtain 
instantaneous video and audio reconnaissance within indoor or outdoor 
environments. Designed to withstand repeated drops of up to 30 feet (9 m) 
onto concrete, the Throwbot® 2 robot can be thrown into hazardous situations 
to allow operators to quickly make informed decisions when seconds count. This 
496 of 509

--- page 497 ---
DRAFT 
micro-robot is designed to be able to crawl over a variety of terrain, 
clearing obstacles up to 2″ (5 cm) tall. Conversion kits are available which can 
increase the ability of the Throwbot® 2 robot to cross obstacles up to 4″ (10 cm) 
tall or to carry and tow a combined 4 lbs (1.8 kg) of payloads using integrated 
mount points or a Picatinny Rail accessory. 
b. Purpose and authorized use:  To be used to remotely gain visual/audio intelligence, 
deliver equipment, open doors, and clear buildings ahead of a search team.  Officers 
who have been trained may deploy any of the robots.  Any use of SMPD robots will be 
for official law enforcement purposes, and in a manner that respects the privacy of our 
community.  Uses may include but are not limited to: search and rescue; suspect 
apprehension; tactical operations; scene security; hazard monitoring, identification and 
mitigation; response to emergency calls; crisis communications; legally authorized 
surveillance. 
c. Fiscal Impact:  Varies depending on replacement parts and repairs. 
d. Legal and procedural rules:  Any use of SMPD robots will be for official law enforcement 
purposes, and in a manner that respects the privacy of our community. 
e. Required training:  Officers utilizing the robots will have received training from SMPD 
SWAT members prior to deployment of the robots.  
f. Lifespan: All robots and associated equipment, 8-10 years. 
3. Armored Vehicles: Commercially produced wheeled armored personnel vehicle utilized for law 
enforcement purposes. 
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities, and purchase cost: 
i. International Armor Group Sentinel, cost $0.00, quantity 1: The all new IAG 
Sentinel ARV is an armored rescue vehicle re-designed specifically for tactical 
response teams, with added interior space and overall functionality in the event 
of a rapid deployment. Standard vehicle armoring is available in NIJ III/CEN B6, 
.50 cal and NIJ IV/CEN B7 that is rated to withstand multiple impacts from armor 
piercing 7.62x51mm rifle ammunition. The armoring system on the Sentinel 
Armored Rescue Vehicle protects the entire cabin with blast protection 
underneath the vehicle. The engine bay and fuel tank are also armored to 
prevent the vehicle from being disabled from ballistic threats or shrapnel. High 
payload wheels and tire package features an integrated run-flat and bead lock 
system to prevent the tires from dismounting from the wheel, as well as enables 
the vehicle to continue operating in the event of tire punctures. The vehicle can 
be outfitted with a large variety of equipment such as hydraulic ram, gas 
insertion equipment, 360-degree surveillance system, thermal and night vision 
capability, LRAD, ATF approved storage and much more. The interior layout can 
be completely customized to suit the specific mission requirements/application 
and allows for loading of a standard medical stretcher in emergency rescue 
situations. The dual rear doors are designed to lock into place at both 45° and 
90° while built-in steps provide access to the no-slip roof. The oversized rear 
step and platform ensure ease of entry and exit while also providing plenty of 
space for operators to utilize the outside of the vehicle for rapid deployment. 
b. Purpose and authorized uses:  To provide for the safe transport, security, and rescue of 
agency personnel and citizens in high-risk incidents.  Any use of the armored rescue 
497 of 509

--- page 498 ---
DRAFT 
vehicle will be for official law enforcement purposes and will fall 
under Lexipol SOP 501. 
c. Fiscal Impact: Purchased on a grant, $1500.00 annual maintenance. 
d. Legal and procedural rules:  Use shall be in accordance with California State law 
regarding the operation of motor vehicles.  
e. Required training:  Agency-authored orientation course; annual refresher. 
f. Lifespan: 12-15 years depending on use 
 
4. Command and control vehicles:  A mobile command post that provides shelter, access to Police 
Department computer systems and information during a critical incident and other planned 
events. 
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities, and purchase cost: 
i. Braun Northwest mobile command vehicle, cost $0.00, quantity 1:  The MCV is 
build on a Ford F550 chassis and can be utilized for SWAT/CNT and other critical 
incidents, pre-planned large events, searching for missing persons, natural 
disasters, and community events. Effective, reliable communication is critical in 
an emergency or crisis situation. To meet this important need, Braun Northwest 
custom-builds are durable, functional command/communication units.  
ii. Ford motor vehicle F53 motorhome command post, cost $100,000.00, quantity 
1:  The F53 command vehicle can be utilized for SWAT/CNT and other critical 
incidents, preplanned large events, searching for missing persons, natural 
disasters, and community events. This vehicle can also be used as a mobile 
office that provides shelter, access to the Police Department computer systems, 
and restroom facilities on extended events. 
b. Purpose and authorized uses:  To serve as a mobile command post during any incident 
that requires command and control beyond a static dispatch center.  Any use of the 
MCV vehicle will be for official law enforcement purposes, pre-planned events, or 
training exercises. 
c. Fiscal impact: Purchased on a grant; $5,000.00 annual maintenance. 
d. Legal and procedural rules: Use shall be in accordance with California State law 
regarding the operation of motor vehicles. 
e. Required training:  Agency-authored orientation course; annual refresher. 
f. Lifespan: 12-15 years depending on use 
 
 
5. Rifles:  A shoulder fired rifle capable of firing a projectile accurately at over 100 yards.   
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities and purchase cost: 
i. Daniel Defense DDM4 V7, cost $2,000.00 each, quantity 36: The AR15 style 
firearm features M-LOK attachment technology with the Daniel Defense 15.0 
rail. Built around a cold hammer forged, 16-inch barrel, the V7 has a DD 
improved flash suppressor to reduce flash signature. The mid-length gas system 
provides smooth and reliable cycling under any condition and reduces both 
perceived recoil and wear on moving parts. With the M-LOK attachment points 
that run along 7 positions and an uninterrupted 1913 Picatinny rail on top, the 
V7 has plenty of room for the sights, optics, and accessories the user may 
require.  The independently ambidextrous GRIP-N-RIP charging handle 
accommodates left- and right-handed shooters.  This rifle also comes with the 
ergonomic Daniel Defense Buttstock and Pistol Grip. 
498 of 509

--- page 499 ---
DRAFT 
ii. Daniel Defense personal defense weapon (PDW) 300 Blk, cost 
$2,000.00 each, quantity 14: The AR15 style firearm features M-LOK attachment 
technology with the Daniel Defense MFR rail. Built around a Cold Hammer 
Forged, 7.5-inch barrel, the PDW has a Daniel Defense improved flash 
suppressor to reduce flash signature. The mid-length gas system provides 
smooth and reliable cycling under any condition and reduces both perceived 
recoil and wear on moving parts. With the M-LOK attachment points that run 
along 7 positions and an uninterrupted 1913 Picatinny rail on top, the PDW has 
plenty of room for the sights, optics, and accessories the user may require.  The 
independently ambidextrous GRIP-N-RIP charging handle accommodates left- 
and right-handed shooters.  This rifle also comes with the ergonomic Daniel 
Defense Buttstock and pistol grip. 
iii. Whindham weaponry AR15, cost $1,800.00, quantity 14: Windham AR15: 
Caliber: .223 Rem. / 5.56mm Semi-Automatic, Gas Impingement System Safety: 
Manual Lever with Indicator Markings on Both Sides of Receiver, Receiver 
Material: Forged 7075 T6 Aircraft Aluminum with Aluminum Trigger Guard, 
Receiver Finish: Hardcoat Black Anodize Finish, Bolt Material: Carpenter 158 
Steel, Barrel: 11.5” Heavy Profile, Chrome Lined with A2 Flash Suppressor, Barrel 
Material: 4150 Chrome Moly Vanadium 11595E Steel w. M4 Feed Ramps, 
Rifling: 1 in 7” – Right Hand Twist, Stock: 6 Position Telescoping Stock with W-W 
Logo, Forend: 10″ Midwest Industries Combat Rail One Piece Free Float 
Handguard, M-LOK™ Compatible,  Pistol Grip: A2 Black Plastic Grip, Rear Sight: 
None: Mil Std 1913 Rail Ready for Accessory Sights/Optics, Front Sight: None: 
Mil Std 1913 Rail Ready for Accessory Front Sights, Weight / Length: 6.0 lbs. 
(without magazine) / 32“(28.25” with Telestock collapsed),Packaging: Hard 
Plastic Gun Case & Operators Manual 
iv. Georgia Precision AR10, cost $2,500.00 each, quantity 3: GAP 10 308: Upper and 
lower receiver, precision manufactured for us from 7075 Billet by Seekins 
Precision, Bartlein Stainless 5r rifled barrel to match your projectile and caliber. 
(standards: 11.25 for 308, 8 for 6.5mm, 7.7 for 6mm), Gas tube: Mid-length for 
16.5"-18", Rifle-length for 19"-22" Geissele SSA-E 2-stage trigger standard. 
Optional: Trigger Tech Adaptable AR Primary Trigger. SP3R V3 Rail, 15" MLOK 
accessory attachment points, Seekins DNA charging Handle / Optional Upgrade: 
Badger Ambidextrous gen 3 SLR Sentry 8 (.875") adjustable gas block installed 
Standard finish is a matte black hard coat anodization on handguard and 
receivers, barrel cerakoted black. Ambidextrous bolt release. 
v. SPEER GOLD DOT .223 CALIBER 62 GRAIN RIFLE ROUND, cost: $260 per case of 
500, quantity: 400 cases. Remington ammunition made by Speer is reloadable, 
features nickel plated brass cases and Boxer primers, and this is a non-corrosive 
round. The Gold Dot LE ammunition goes through a process of joining the jacket 
and core one molecule at a time, thanks to this Speer eradicates the potential 
for the leading cause of bullet failure (jacket/core separation). This process will 
guarantee extraordinary weight retention through barriers as strong as auto-
glass. In addition to its remarkable strength, Gold Dot rifle ammunition asserts 
remarkable accuracy. With exact tolerances and unparalleled bullet uniformity 
of jacket thickness. 
vi. FEDERAL 9MM LUGER GRAIN HST DUTY AMMUNITION, cost: $9600, quantity: 
8000 rounds. This 9mm ammo load features nickel plated brass casings and 
499 of 509

--- page 500 ---
DRAFT 
non-corrosive primers. A specially designed hollow-point tip will not 
plug while passing through a variety of barriers and this bullet holds its jacket in 
the toughest conditions HST is engineered to provide 100% weight retention 
through most barriers 
vii. Hornady 300, blackout 110 grain GMX, cost $25,000.00, quantity 12,000 rounds. 
The 300 Blackout TAP® offers excellent barrier performance from 6.75 - 16" 
barreled rifles. The monolithic copper alloy bullet design fouls less than pure 
copper bullets while maintaining accuracy and consistent terminal performance. 
The 300 Blackout TAP® is the absolute optimum choice for patrol rifles in 300 
Blackout. 
viii. Hornady 308, 168 grain AMAX, quantity 1,000 rounds, cost $2,000.00: The 168 
gr. A-MAX® bullet is a traditional match grade bullet with the performance 
advantages of a polymer tip. This bullet demonstrates an increase in 
penetration and retained weight over the 155 gr. A-MAX® bullet. Standard 
barrier performance is exemplary, and this load demonstrates controlled and 
impressive soft tissue expansion without over penetration. The Hornady® 168 
gr. A-MAX® TAP Precision® offers industry leading all-around performance for 
law enforcement precision marksmen providing the ability to stop a threat. 
b. Purpose and authorized uses:  To be used as precision weapons to address a threat with 
more precision and/or greater distances than a handgun, if present and feasible.  The 
use and deployment of the rifle falls under Lexipol policy 312 and 408.  Only Officers 
who have attended the POST certified patrol rifle course may deploy the rifle. 
c. Fiscal impact:  Annual maintenance is $25.00 per rifle.  Total ammunition budget is 
$50,000 per year.  
d. Legal and procedural rules: Use is established under Lexipol policy 312 and 408. It is the 
policy of SMPD to utilize rifles only for official law enforcement purposes, and pursuant 
to State and Federal law regarding the use of force. 
e. Required training: Quarterly qualifications and ongoing training 
f. Lifespan: Rifles 10-20 years depending on use. No expiration on ammunition. 
 
6. Distraction Devices:  A distraction device is ideal for distracting dangerous suspects during 
assaults, hostage rescue, room entry or other high-risk arrest situations. 
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities, and purchase cost: 
i. COMBINED TACTIACL SYSTEMS, 7290-2 FLASH-BANG, cost: $52, quantity: 20. A 
non-bursting, non-fragmenting multi-bang device that produces a thunderous 
bang with an intense bright light. Ideal for distracting dangerous suspects during 
assaults, hostage rescue, room entry or other high-risk arrest situations. 
ii. COMBINED TACTICAL SYSTEMS, 7290M MINI FLASH-BANG, cost: $38, quantity: 
20. The 7290M Flash-Bang exhibits all the same attributes of its larger 
counterpart but in a smaller and lighter package. Weighing in at just 15 ounces 
the new 7290M is approximately 30% lighter than the 7290 but still has the 
same 175db output of the 7290 and produces 6-8 million candelas of light. 
b. Purpose and authorized uses: Distraction devices are ideal for distracting dangerous 
suspects to allow tactical teams to complete a dangerous mission or task.  Distraction 
devices shall only be used by officers trained in the proper use and deployment. 
Diversionary Devices shall only be used: 
i. By officers who have been trained in their proper use. 
ii. In hostage and barricaded subject situations. 
500 of 509

--- page 501 ---
DRAFT 
iii. In high risk warrant (search/arrest) services where there may be 
extreme hazards to officers. 
iv. During other high-risk situations where their use would enhance officer safety. 
v. During training exercises. 
c. Fiscal Impact:  Varies depending on use. 
d. Legal and procedural rules:  It is the policy of the SMPD to utilize diversion devices only 
for official law enforcement purposes, and pursuant to State and Federal law regarding 
the use of force. 
e. Required training: Officers must attend training hosted by certified POST instructors 
which is followed by an annual refresher training.  
f. Lifespan:  Upon use.   
 
7. Explosive breaching tools:  Tools that are used to conduct a positive breach using kinetic 
energy. 
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities, and purchase cost: 
i. DETONATING CORD, cost: $1 per foot, quantity: 0 feet. The detonating cord is a 
thin, flexible plastic tube usually filled with pentaerythritol tetranitrate (PETN, 
pentrite). With the PETN exploding at a rate of approximately 6400 m/s, any 
common length of detonation cord appears to explode instantaneously. It is a 
high-speed fuse which explodes, rather than burns, and is suitable for 
detonating high explosives. 
ii. BLASTING CAP, cost: $12, quantity: 0. A blasting cap is a small sensitive primary 
explosive device generally used to detonate a larger, more powerful, and less 
sensitive secondary explosive such as TNT, dynamite, or plastic explosive. 
Blasting caps come in a variety of types, including non-electric caps, electric 
caps, and fuse caps. 
iii. REMINGTON 870 BREACHING SHOTGUN, cost: $500, quantity: 5. This weapon 
allows for breachers to safely utilize shotgun breaching rounds to destroy 
deadbolts, locks, and hinges. The stand-off that is attached to the end of the 
barrel allows for positive placement of the gun into the correct position and 
vents gases to prevent overpressure. This weapon can also defeat windows and 
sliding glass doors with a flash bang round. A less lethal 2.4-inch 12-gauge 
shotgun round firing a ballistic fiber bag filled with 40 grams of lead shot at a 
velocity of 270-290 feet per second (FPS). 
iv. DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY FRANGILBE BREACHING ROUND, cost: $5 per round, 
quantity: 50. The round is fired from a breaching shotgun and is used to destroy 
deadbolts, locks and hinges. 
b. Purpose and authorized use:  To safely create a positive breach and enter a structure.  
Kinetic and shotgun breaching may only occur after authorization by the Incident 
Commander or SWAT Commander in the field, and during training exercises. 
c. Fiscal Impact:  Cost varies depending on use in the field.  Annual maintenance and 
training costs are approximately $1,500.00 to $5,000.00. 
d. Training:  All Officers who use kinetic and shotgun breaching tools shall attend a 40-
hour explosive breaching course and will train regularly.   
e. Legal and procedural rules:  Breaching tools will only be used for official law 
enforcement purposes and will be pursuant to State and Federal law. 
f. Lifespan: Detonating cord 10 years, blasting caps 10 years, breaching shotguns 20 years, 
breaching shotgun rounds 5 years.  
501 of 509

--- page 502 ---
DRAFT 
 
8. Chemical agents:  Canisters that contain OC and CS chemical agents that are released when 
deployed.  
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities, and purchase cost: 
i. CTS 7290M, cost $35.00 each, quantity 20: The CTS 7290M Mini Flash-Bang is 
the newest generation in the evolution of the Flash-Bang. Our Model 7290M 
Flash-Bang exhibits all the same attributes of its larger counterpart but in a 
smaller and lighter package. Weighing in at just 15 ounces the new 7290M is 
approximately 30% lighter than the 7290 but still has the same 175db output of 
the 7290 and produces 6-8 million candelas of light.  The patented design of the 
7290M, incorporates a porting system that eliminates movement of the body at 
detonation even if the top or bottom of the device should be in contact with a 
hard surface. In addition, internal adjustments have greatly reduced smoke 
output. 
ii. CTS 5230, cost $30.00 each, quantity 20: 5230 JL large diameter burning 
grenade designed to discharge a high volume of smoke and chemical agent 
rapidly through multiple emission ports. The smoke composition is formulated 
to burn rapidly decreasing the possibility that the grenade can be picked up and 
thrown back at crowd management officers.  
iii. CTS 6330 and 6340, cost $25.00 each, quantity 12: 6330 / 6340 A unique 
grenade delivering an invisible vapor and rendering an intense respiratory 
effect.  Provides best results when used indoors and requires no personal 
decontamination. 
iv. CTS 5230B, cost $35.00 each, quantity 10: 5230B Pyrotechnic grenade designed 
for indoor use delivering a maximum amount of irritant smoke throughout 
multiple rooms with minimal risk of fire. 
v. CTS 8210, cost $25.00 each, quantity 10: 8210 Small diameter pyrotechnic 
irritant smoke grenade for outdoor use to disperse crowds. Emits smoke for up 
to 30 seconds and is small enough to carry in a pocket. Can be hand thrown or 
launched.  
b. Purpose and authorized use: To limit the escalation of conflict where employment of 
lethal force is prohibited or undesirable.  Situations for use may include, but are not 
limited to: 
i. Self-destructive, dangerous, and/or combative individuals 
ii. Barricaded suspects 
iii. Riot/crowd control and civil unrest incidents 
iv. Training exercises 
c. Fiscal impact:  Varies depending on use in the field, $1,500.00 to $2,500.00 per year. 
d. Training:  Sworn members utilizing chemical agent canisters are certified by POST less 
lethal and chemical agents’ instructors. 
e. Legal and procedural rules: It is the policy of the SMPD to utilize chemical agents only 
for official law enforcement purposes, and pursuant to State and Federal law, including 
those regarding the use of force. 
f. Lifespan: 5 years from date of manufacture.  
 
9. Long Range Acoustical Device (LRAD):  
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities, and purchase cost: 
502 of 509

--- page 503 ---
DRAFT 
i. Long Range Acoustical Device (LRAD), cost $0.00 (purchased on a 
grant), quantity 1: is a high intensity directional acoustical array for long range, 
crystal clear hailing, notification, and an unmistakable warning tone. The LRAD is 
primarily used as a communication device. 
b. Purpose and authorized uses: To be used to issue dispersal orders during crowd and 
riot control situations or to address the public in the event of civil emergencies, natural 
disasters, evacuations, and police incidents (e.g., missing persons, perimeters for 
wanted suspects/ K9 deployments, etc.). The LRAD may also be used to issue a warning 
tone. The LRAD shall only be used by officers trained in its deployment and used in a 
manner consistent with department policy and training. 
c. Fiscal impact: None 
d. Training: All operators receive training prior to operating any of the LRAD’s in the field. 
e. Legal and procedural rules: It is the policy of the SMPD to utilize the LRAD only for 
official law enforcement purposes, and pursuant to State and Federal law. 
f. Lifespan: 20 years. 
 
10. CTS Launching cup: Has the capability to launch an OC or CS cannister from a 12 gauge less 
lethal shotgun. 
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities, and purchase cost: 
i. COMBINED SYSTEMS LC5 40MM LAUNCHING CUP, cost: $302, quantity: 2. The 
LC5 Launching Cups are designed for the 5200 series grenades. The cups can be 
attached to virtually any 12gauge shotgun and the munition launched with our 
model 2600 launching cartridge. 
b. Purpose and authorized use:  To limit the escalation of conflict where employment of 
lethal force is prohibited or undesirable.  Situations for use may include, but are not 
limited to: 
i. Self-destructive, dangerous, and/or combative individuals 
ii. Barricaded suspects 
iii. Riot/crowd control and civil unrest incidents 
iv. Training exercises 
c. Fiscal impact:  None 
d. Training:  Sworn members utilizing chemical agent canisters are certified by POST less 
lethal and chemical agents’ instructors. 
e. Legal and procedural rules: It is the policy of the SMPD to utilize chemical agents only 
for official law enforcement purposes, and pursuant to State and Federal law, including 
those regarding the use of force. 
f. Lifespan: 20 years. 
 
11. 40mm Launchers and rounds:  40MM Launchers are utilized by department personnel as a less 
lethal tool to launch less lethal impact and OC/CS rounds. 
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities, and purchase cost: 
i. PENN ARMS 40mm launcher, cost $1,000.00, quantity: 26.  The 40mm launcher 
is a single shot launcher that has set the standard for less-lethal launchers 
worldwide for over 20 years. The patented designs are small, lightweight, and 
operationally versatile.  
ii. 4330 – Liquid CS filled projectile penetrates intermediate barriers and delivers 
irritant agents into an adjacent room. 
503 of 509

--- page 504 ---
DRAFT 
iii. 4431 – CS powder filled projectile penetrates intermediate barriers 
and delivers irritant agents into an adjacent room. 
iv. 4340 – Liquid OC filled projectile penetrates intermediate barriers and delivers 
irritant agents into an adjacent room. 
v. Less lethal foam-tipped projectile capable of travelling 250 fps to a maximum 
range of 100 feet.   
b. Purpose and authorized uses:  To limit the escalation of conflict where employment of 
lethal force is prohibited or undesirable.  Situations for use may include, but are not 
limited to: 
i. Self-destructive, dangerous, and/or combative individuals 
ii. Barricaded suspects 
iii. Riot/crowd control and civil unrest incidents 
iv. Training exercises 
c. Fiscal impact:  Annual costs can range from $5,000 to $20,000 depending on use. 
d. Training:  Sworn members utilizing chemical agent canisters are certified by POST less 
lethal and chemical agents’ instructors. 
e. Legal and procedural rules: It is the policy of the SMPD to utilize chemical agents only 
for official law enforcement purposes, and pursuant to State and Federal law, including 
those regarding the use of force. 
f. Lifespan: Penn arms 40mm launcher 20 years, 40mm foam tipped projectile until used, 
all chemical agent rounds 5 years from date of manufacture.  
 
504 of 509

--- page 505 ---
3/31/22, 8:34 AM
                         
Bill Text - AB-481 Law enforcement and state agencies: military equipment: funding, acquisition, and use.
https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billTextClient.xhtml?bill_id=202120220AB481
1/5
SHARE THIS:
Date Published: 10/01/2021 09:00 PM
AB-481 Law enforcement and state agencies: military equipment: funding, acquisition, and use. 
(2021-20
Assembly Bill
No. 481
CHAPTER 406
An act to add Chapter 12.8 (commencing with Section 7070) to Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code, relating
to military equipment.
[
Approved by
Governor
 September 30, 2021.
Filed with
Secretary of State
 September 30, 2021.
]
LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGEST
AB 481, Chiu.
Law enforcement and state agencies: military equipment: funding, acquisition, and use.
Existing law designates the Department of General Services as the agency for the State of California responsible for distribution
of federal surplus personal property, excepting food commodities, and requires the department to, among other things, do all
things necessary to the execution of its powers and duties as the state agency for the distribution of federal personal surplus
property, excepting food commodities, in accordance with specified federal law. Existing law, the Federal Surplus Property
Acquisition Law of 1945, authorizes a local agency, as defined, to acquire surplus federal property without regard to any law
which requires posting of notices or advertising for bids, inviting or receiving bids, or delivery of purchases before payment, or
which prevents the local agency from bidding on federal surplus property. Existing federal law authorizes the Department of
Defense to
 transfer surplus personal property, including arms and ammunition, to federal or state agencies for use in law
enforcement activities, subject to specified conditions, at no cost to the acquiring agency.
This bill would require a law enforcement agency, defined to include specified entities, to obtain approval of the applicable
governing body, by adoption of a military equipment use policy, as specified, by ordinance at a regular meeting held pursuant to
specified open meeting laws, prior to taking certain actions relating to the funding, acquisition, or use of military equipment, as
defined. The bill would also require similar approval for the continued use of military equipment acquired prior to January 1,
2022. The bill would allow the governing body to approve the funding, acquisition, or use of military equipment within its
jurisdiction only if it determines that the military equipment meets specified standards. The bill would require the governing
body to
annually review the ordinance and to either disapprove a renewal of the authorization for a type, as defined, of military
equipment or amend the military equipment use policy if it determines, based on an annual military equipment report prepared
by the law enforcement agency, as provided, that the military equipment does not comply with the above-described standards
for approval. The bill would specify these provisions do not preclude a county or local municipality from implementing additional
requirements and standards related to the purchase, use, and reporting of military equipment by local law enforcement
agencies.
This bill would also require a state agency, as defined, to create a military equipment use policy before engaging in certain
activities, publish the policy on the agency’s internet website, and provide a copy of the policy to the Governor or the Governor’s
designee, as specified. The bill would also require a state agency that seeks to continue use
of military equipment acquired prior
to January 1, 2022, to create a military equipment use policy.
This bill would also include findings that the changes proposed by this bill address a matter of statewide concern rather than a
municipal affair and, therefore, apply to all cities, including charter cities.
By adding to the duties of local officials with respect to the funding, acquisition, and use of military equipment, this bill would
impose a state-mandated local program.
The California Constitution requires local agencies, for the purpose of ensuring public access to the meetings of public bodies
and the writings of public officials and agencies, to comply with a statutory enactment that amends or enacts laws relating to
Home
Bill Information
California Law
Publications
Other Resources
My Subscriptions
My Favorites
505 of 509

--- page 506 ---
3/31/22, 8:34 AM
Bill Text - AB-481 Law enforcement and state agencies: military equipment: funding, acquisition, and use.
https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billTextClient.xhtml?bill_id=202120220AB481
2/5
public records or open meetings and contains findings demonstrating that the enactment furthers the constitutional
requirements relating to
this purpose.
This bill would make legislative findings to that effect.
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the
state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
Vote:
majority  
Appropriation:
no  
Fiscal Committee:
yes  
Local Program:
yes  
THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA DO ENACT AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
(a)  The acquisition of military equipment and its deployment in our communities adversely impacts the public’s safety and
welfare, including increased risk of civilian deaths, significant risks to civil rights, civil liberties, and physical and psychological
well-being, and incurment of significant financial costs. Military equipment is more frequently deployed in low-income Black and
Brown communities, meaning the risks and impacts of police militarization are experienced most acutely in marginalized
communities.
(b) The public
has a right to know about any funding, acquisition, or use of military equipment by state or local government
officials, as well as a right to participate in any government agency’s decision to fund, acquire, or use such equipment.
(c) Decisions regarding whether and how military equipment is funded, acquired, or used should give strong consideration to
the public’s welfare, safety, civil rights, and civil liberties, and should be based on meaningful public input.
(d) Legally enforceable safeguards, including transparency, oversight, and accountability measures, must be in place to protect
the public’s welfare, safety, civil rights, and civil liberties before military equipment is funded, acquired, or used.
(e) The lack of a public forum to discuss the acquisition of military equipment jeopardizes the relationship police have with the
community, which can be undermined when law enforcement is seen as an occupying force rather than a public safety service.
SEC. 2. Chapter 12.8 (commencing with Section 7070) is added to Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code, to read:
CHAPTER
 12.8. Funding, Acquisition, and Use of Military Equipment
7070. For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
(a)  “Governing body” means the elected body that oversees a law enforcement agency or, if there is no elected body that
directly oversees the law enforcement agency, the appointed body that oversees a law enforcement agency. In the case of a law
enforcement agency of a county, including a sheriff’s department or a district attorney’s office, “governing body” means the
board of supervisors of the county.
(b) “Law enforcement agency” means any of the following:
(1) A police department, including
the police department of a transit agency, school district, or any campus of the University of
California, the California State University, or California Community Colleges.
(2) A sheriff’s department.
(3) A district attorney’s office.
(4) A county probation department.
(c) “Military equipment” means the following:
(1) Unmanned, remotely piloted, powered aerial or ground vehicles.
(2)  Mine-resistant ambush-protected (MRAP) vehicles or armored personnel carriers. However, police versions of standard
consumer vehicles are
specifically excluded from this subdivision.
(3) High mobility multipurpose wheeled vehicles (HMMWV), commonly referred to as Humvees, two and one-half-ton trucks,
five-ton trucks, or wheeled vehicles that have a breaching or entry apparatus attached. However, unarmored all-terrain vehicles
(ATVs) and motorized dirt bikes are specifically excluded from this subdivision.
(4) Tracked armored vehicles that provide ballistic protection to their occupants and utilize a tracked system instead of wheels
for forward motion.
(5) Command and control vehicles that are either built or modified to facilitate the operational control and direction of public
safety units.
(6) Weaponized aircraft, vessels, or vehicles of any kind.
506 of 509

--- page 507 ---
3/31/22, 8:35 AM
Bill Text - AB-481 Law enforcement and state agencies: military equipment: funding, acquisition, and use.
https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billTextClient.xhtml?bill_id=202120220AB481
3/5
(7) Battering rams, slugs, and breaching apparatuses that are explosive in nature. However, items designed to remove a lock,
such as bolt cutters, or a handheld ram designed to be operated by one person, are specifically excluded from this subdivision.
(8) Firearms of .50 caliber or greater. However, standard issue shotguns are specifically excluded from this subdivision.
(9)  Ammunition of .50 caliber or greater. However, standard issue shotgun ammunition is specifically excluded from this
subdivision.
(10) Specialized firearms and ammunition of less than .50 caliber, including assault weapons as
defined in Sections 30510 and
30515 of the Penal Code, with the exception of standard issue service weapons and ammunition of less than .50 caliber that are
issued to officers, agents, or employees of a law enforcement agency or a state agency.
(11) Any firearm or firearm accessory that is designed to launch explosive projectiles.
(12)  “Flashbang” grenades and explosive breaching tools, “tear gas,” and “pepper balls,” excluding standard, service-issued
handheld pepper spray.
(13) Taser Shockwave, microwave weapons, water cannons, and the Long Range Acoustic Device (LRAD).
(14) The following projectile launch platforms and their associated munitions:
40mm projectile launchers, “bean bag,” rubber
bullet, and specialty impact munition (SIM) weapons.
(15) Any other equipment as determined by a governing body or a state agency to require additional oversight.
(16) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) through (15), “military equipment” does not include general equipment not designated as
prohibited or controlled by the federal Defense Logistics Agency.
(d) “Military equipment use policy” means a publicly released, written document governing the use of military equipment by a
law enforcement agency or a state agency that addresses, at a minimum, all of the following:
(1)  A description of each type of military equipment, the quantity sought, its capabilities, expected lifespan,
 and product
descriptions from the manufacturer of the military equipment.
(2) The purposes and authorized uses for which the law enforcement agency or the state agency proposes to use each type of
military equipment.
(3) The fiscal impact of each type of military equipment, including the initial costs of obtaining the
equipment and estimated
annual costs of maintaining the equipment.
(4) The legal and procedural rules that govern each authorized use.
(5)  The training, including any course required by the Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training, that must be
completed before any officer, agent, or employee of the law enforcement agency or the state agency is allowed to use each
specific type of military equipment to ensure the full protection of the public’s welfare, safety, civil rights, and civil liberties and
full adherence to the military equipment use policy.
(6)  The mechanisms to ensure compliance with the military equipment use policy, including which independent persons or
entities
have oversight authority, and, if applicable, what legally enforceable sanctions are put in place for violations of the
policy.
(7)  For a law enforcement agency, the procedures by which members of the public may register complaints or concerns or
submit questions about the use of each specific type of military
equipment, and how the law enforcement agency will ensure
that each complaint, concern, or question receives a response in a timely manner.
(e) “State agency” means the law enforcement division of every state office, officer, department, division, bureau, board, and
commission or other state body or agency, except those agencies provided for in Article IV (except Section 20 thereof) or Article
VI of the California Constitution.
(f) “Type” means each item that shares the same manufacturer model number.
7071.  (a)  (1)  A law enforcement agency shall obtain approval of the governing body, by an ordinance adopting a military
equipment use policy at a regular meeting of the governing body held pursuant to the Bagley-Keene Open Meeting Act (Article 9
(commencing with Section 11120) of Chapter 1 of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2) or the Ralph M. Brown Act (Chapter 9
(commencing with Section 54950) of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5), as applicable, prior to engaging in any of the following:
(A) Requesting military equipment made available pursuant to Section 2576a of Title 10 of the United States Code.
(B) Seeking funds for military equipment, including, but not limited to, applying for a grant, soliciting or accepting private, local,
state, or federal funds, in-kind donations, or other donations or transfers.
(C) Acquiring military equipment either permanently or temporarily, including by borrowing or leasing.
(D)  Collaborating with another law enforcement agency in the deployment or other use of military equipment within the
territorial jurisdiction of the governing body.
507 of 509

--- page 508 ---
3/31/22, 8:35 AM
Bill Text - AB-481 Law enforcement and state agencies: military equipment: funding, acquisition, and use.
https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billTextClient.xhtml?bill_id=202120220AB481
4/5
(E) Using any new or existing military equipment for a purpose, in a manner, or by a person not previously approved by the
governing body pursuant to this chapter.
(F) Soliciting or responding to a proposal for, or entering into an agreement with, any other person or entity to seek funds for,
apply to receive, acquire, use, or collaborate in the use of, military equipment.
(G) Acquiring military equipment through any means not provided by this paragraph.
(2)  No later than May 1, 2022, a law enforcement agency seeking to continue the use of any military equipment that was
acquired prior to January 1, 2022, shall commence a governing body approval process in accordance with this section. If the
governing body does not approve the continuing use of military equipment, including by adoption pursuant to this subdivision of
a military equipment use policy submitted pursuant to subdivision (b), within 180 days of submission of the
proposed military
equipment use policy to the governing body, the law enforcement agency shall cease its use of the military equipment until it
receives the approval of the governing body in accordance with this section.
(b)  In seeking the approval of the governing body pursuant to subdivision (a), a law enforcement agency shall submit a
proposed military equipment use policy to the governing body and make those documents available on the law enforcement
agency’s internet website at least 30 days prior to any public hearing concerning the military equipment at issue.
(c) The governing body shall consider a proposed military equipment use policy as an agenda item for an open session of a
regular meeting and provide for public comment in accordance with the Bagley-Keene Open
Meeting Act (Article 9 (commencing
with Section 11120) of Chapter 1 of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2) or the Ralph M. Brown Act (Chapter 9 (commencing with
Section 54950) of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5), as applicable.
(d) (1) The governing body shall only approve a military equipment use policy pursuant to this chapter if it determines all of the
following:
(A)  The military equipment is necessary because there is no reasonable alternative that can achieve the same objective of
officer and civilian safety.
(B) The proposed military equipment use policy will safeguard the public’s welfare, safety, civil rights, and civil liberties.
(C) If purchasing the equipment, the equipment is reasonably cost effective compared to available alternatives that can achieve
the same objective of officer and civilian safety.
(D) Prior military equipment use complied with the
military equipment use policy that was in effect at the time, or if prior uses
did not comply with the accompanying military equipment use policy, corrective action has been taken to remedy
nonconforming uses and ensure future compliance.
(2) In order to facilitate public participation, any proposed or final military equipment use policy shall be made publicly available
on the internet website of the relevant law enforcement agency for as long as the military equipment is available for use.
(e)  (1)  The governing body shall review any ordinance that it has adopted pursuant to this section approving the funding,
acquisition, or use of military equipment at least annually and, subject to paragraph (2), vote on whether to renew the
ordinance at
 a regular meeting held pursuant to the Bagley-Keene Open Meeting Act (Article 9 (commencing with Section
11120) of Chapter 1 of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2) or the Ralph M. Brown Act (Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 54950)
of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5), as applicable.
(2) The governing body shall determine, based on the annual military equipment report submitted pursuant to Section 7072,
whether each type of military equipment identified in that report has complied with the standards for approval set forth in
subdivision (d). If the governing body determines that a type of military equipment identified in that annual military equipment
report has not complied with the standards for approval set forth in subdivision (d), the governing body shall either disapprove
a renewal of the authorization for that type of military
equipment or require modifications to the military equipment use policy
in a manner that will resolve the lack of compliance.
(f) Notwithstanding subdivisions (a) to (e), inclusive, if a city contracts with another entity for law enforcement services, the
city shall have the authority to adopt a military equipment use policy based on local community needs.
7072. (a) A law enforcement agency that receives approval for a military equipment use policy pursuant to Section 7071 shall
submit to the governing body an annual military equipment report for each type of military equipment approved by the
governing body within one year of approval, and annually thereafter for as long as the military equipment is available for use.
The law enforcement agency shall also make each annual military equipment report required by this section publicly available
on its internet website for as long as the military equipment is
available for use. The annual military equipment report shall, at a
minimum, include the following information for the immediately preceding calendar year for each type of military equipment:
(1) A summary of how the military equipment was used and the purpose of its use.
(2) A summary of any complaints or concerns received concerning the military equipment.
(3) The results of any internal audits, any information about violations of the military equipment use policy, and any actions
taken in response.
508 of 509

--- page 509 ---
3/31/22, 8:35 AM
Bill Text - AB-481 Law enforcement and state agencies: military equipment: funding, acquisition, and use.
https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billTextClient.xhtml?bill_id=202120220AB481
5/5
(4)  The total annual cost for each type of military equipment, including acquisition, personnel, training, transportation,
maintenance,
 storage, upgrade, and other ongoing costs, and from what source funds will be provided for the military
equipment in the calendar year following submission of the annual military equipment report.
(5) The quantity possessed for each type of military equipment.
(6) If the law enforcement agency intends to acquire additional military equipment in the next year, the quantity sought for
each type of military equipment.
(b) Within 30 days of submitting and publicly releasing an annual military equipment report pursuant to this section, the law
enforcement agency shall hold at least one well-publicized and conveniently located community engagement meeting, at which
the general public may discuss and ask questions regarding the annual
 military equipment report and the law enforcement
agency’s funding, acquisition, or use of military equipment.
7073. (a) A state agency shall create a military equipment use policy prior to engaging in any of the following:
(1) Requesting military equipment made available pursuant to Section 2576a of Title 10 of the United States Code.
(2) Seeking funds for military equipment, including, but not limited to, applying for a grant, soliciting or accepting private, local,
state, or federal funds, in-kind donations, or other donations or transfers.
(3) Acquiring military equipment either permanently or temporarily, including by borrowing or leasing.
(4) Collaborating with a law enforcement agency or another state agency in the deployment or other use of military equipment
within the territorial jurisdiction of the governing body.
(5) Using any new or existing military equipment for a purpose, in a manner, or by a person not previously approved by the
governing body pursuant to this chapter.
(6) Soliciting or responding to a proposal for, or entering into an agreement with, any other person or entity to seek funds for,
or to apply to receive, acquire, use, or collaborate in the use of, military equipment.
(7) Acquiring military equipment through any means not provided by this subdivision.
(b) No later than May 1, 2022, a state agency seeking to continue the use of any military equipment that was acquired prior to
January 1, 2022, shall create a military equipment use policy.
(c)  A state agency that is required to create a military equipment use policy pursuant to this section shall do both of the
following within 180 days of completing the policy:
(1) Publish the military equipment use policy on the agency’s internet website.
(2) Provide a copy of the military equipment use policy to the Governor or the Governor’s designee.
7074. The Legislature finds and declares that ensuring adequate oversight of the acquisition and use of military equipment is a
matter of statewide concern rather than a municipal affair as that term is used in Section 5 of Article XI of the California
Constitution. Therefore, this chapter applies to all cities, including charter cities and shall supersede any inconsistent provisions
in the charter of any city, county, or city and county.
7075.  Nothing in this chapter shall preclude a county or local municipality from implementing additional requirements and
standards related to the purchase, use, and reporting of military equipment by local law enforcement agencies.
SEC. 3. The Legislature finds and declares that Section 1 of this act, which adds Chapter 12.8 (commencing with Section 7070)
to Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code, furthers, within the meaning of paragraph (7) of subdivision (b) of Section 3 of
Article I of the California Constitution, the purposes of that constitutional section as it relates to the right of public access to the
meetings of local public bodies or the writings of local public officials and local agencies. Pursuant to paragraph (7) of
subdivision (b) of Section 3 of Article I of the California Constitution, the Legislature makes the following findings:
Requiring local agencies to hold
public meetings prior to the acquisition of military equipment further exposes that activity to
public scrutiny and enhances public access to information concerning the conduct of the people’s business.
SEC. 4. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because
the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district under this act would result from a legislative mandate
that is within the scope of paragraph (7) of subdivision (b) of Section 3 of Article I of the California Constitution.
509 of 509