source: packet.pdf
sha256: abbef4349f52037238a6a0e5a4b21c7c1cf7c416607839d1d82467a631be71ac
pages: 184
ocr_pages: 11
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission 
October 24, 2023
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
John Ebneter, Chair
Seema Patel, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Martin Wiggins
Margaret Williams
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: October 24, 2023
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 827 1857 0418      Passcode: 427741
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
1.
Planning Commission 2024 Regular Meeting Calendar – Adoption
Adopt the Planning Commission Regular Meeting schedule for the calendar year 2024.
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
2.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the Special Joint meeting of 8.22.2023.
CEQA: This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's
jurisdiction that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of

--- page 2 ---
15 minutes for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's
jurisdiction. The Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the
agenda, but shall refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 and Section
27.08.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those
issues raised at the public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing.
Some public hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
 
3.
Draft Objective Design Standards for Multi-Family and Mixed-Use Residential Development (PA-2019-016)
Recommend to the City Council to adopt a Resolution to establish Objective Design Standards (ODS) for multi-
family and mixed-use residential projects; adopt an Ordinance to amend the Zoning Code (Title 27) related to
ODS and review processes for multi-family and mixed-use residential projects, align fence height standards to
match building code standards; and determine the ODS and Zoning Code amendments are exempt from further
environmental review pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Section 15061(b)(3). 
CEQA: This project is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that the adoption of
objective standards and the proposed code changes refining the review process and for miscellaneous edits for
consistency will not cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065). Proposals
for multi-family or residential mixed-used development will be considered as part of individual projects and will be
evaluated pursuant to CEQA at the time of application submittal.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the

--- page 3 ---
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-8128
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Interim Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
October 24, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Planning Commission 2024 Regular Meeting Calendar – Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt the Planning Commission Regular Meeting schedule for the calendar year 2024. 
BACKGROUND:
Attached is the proposed calendar for regular Planning Commission meetings, which are held on the second and fourth 
Tuesdays of each month. The schedule outlines that the second November and December meetings may be subject to 
cancellation due to holidays. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this administrative action. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Regular Meeting Calendar for 2024
STAFF CONTACT
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager
msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7203

--- page 5 ---
2024 Planning Commission 
 
Planning Commission Regular Meetings: 2nd and 4th Tuesdays of the Month at 7pm 
 
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETINGS: 
 
 
Tuesday, January 9, 2024 
Tuesday, January 23, 2023 
Tuesday, February 13, 2024 
Tuesday, February 27, 2024 
Tuesday, March 12, 2024 
Tuesday, March 26, 2024 
Tuesday, April 9, 2024 
Tuesday, April 23, 2024 
Tuesday, May 14, 2024 
Tuesday, May 28, 2024 
Tuesday, June 11, 2024 
Tuesday, June 25, 2024 
Tuesday, July 9, 2024 
Tuesday, July 23, 2024 
Tuesday, August 13, 2023 
Tuesday, August 27, 2023 
Tuesday, September 10, 2024 
Tuesday, September 24, 2024 
Tuesday, October 8, 2024 
Tuesday, October 22, 2024 
Tuesday, November 12, 2024 
Tuesday, November 26, 2024 – (May be Subject to Cancellation due to 
Holidays) 
Tuesday, December 10, 2024 
Tuesday, December 24, 2024 - (May be Subject to Cancellation due to 
Holidays)

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-8129
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Interim Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
October 24, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Special Joint meeting of 8.22.2023.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Special Joint Meeting Minutes 8.22.2023
STAFF CONTACT
Ashley Snodgrass , Administrative Assistant
asnodgrass@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7218

--- page 7 ---
Planning Commission Special Joint Meeting Minutes – 8/22/23
1
PLANNING COMMISSION 
John Ebneter, Chair
Seema Patel, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Martin Wiggins
Margaret Williams
SUSTAINABILITY & 
INFRASTRUCTURE COMMISSION
Susan Rowinski, Chair
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair
Sigalle Michael
Pam Rittelmeyer
Clifford Robinson
City of San Mateo
Joint Session Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission/ 
Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission
Tuesday, August 22, 2023
Hybrid 7:00 PM
Special Joint Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
CALL TO ORDER 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
ROLL CALL
Present: 
Planning Commission: Chair John Ebneter, Vice Chair Seema Patel, Commissioners Margaret Williams, Adam 
Nugent, and Martin Wiggins
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission: Chair Susan Rowinski, Vice Chair Kimiko Narita, 
Commissioners Sigalle Michael and Pam Rittelmeyer
Remote:
Commissioner Clifford Robinson
Absent: 
None
PUBLIC COMMENT: 
None.
STUDY SESSION
1.
OneShoreline Planning Policy Guidance – Informational Workshop
Planning Manager, Manira Sandhir, and Deputy Director of Public Works, Matt Fabry, presented an overview of the 
OneShoreline Planning Policy Guidance. 
Len Materman, CEO, and Makena Wong, Project Manager, from OneShoreline presented the project.
Commissioner Questions:
Commissioners asked clarifying questions on the implementation of the plan, funding plan, public policies, General 
Plan policies, building code standards, buffer zone requirement, development exemptions, infrastructure focus, 
feedback from other jurisdictions, flood insurance and real estate disclosures, FEMA floodplain requirements, 
overlay zone standards, early flood warning systems, current systems for sea level rise protections in the City, 
shallow groundwater issues, and management of large trash capture devices.
Public Comments:
Public Commenter, Robert Harker, discussed sea level rise and voiced concern for levy failure.
Commissioner Comments:

--- page 8 ---
Planning Commission Special Joint Meeting Minutes – 8/22/23
2
Commissioners voiced concern with the cost of flood insurance, funding, timelines, and high watertables. 
Commissioners suggested adopting mitigations for residents who cannot afford flood insurance.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Planning Manager, Manira Sandhir, provided updates on items for future Planning Commission meetings. There were no 
other reports from Commissioners or the City Attorney.
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 9:02 pm.
APPROVED BY:
___________________________________
John Ebneter, Chair
SUBMITTED BY:
___________________________________
Ashley Snodgrass, Administrative Assistant

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7911
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Interim Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
October 24, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Draft Objective Design Standards for Multi-Family and Mixed-Use Residential Development (PA-2019-016)
RECOMMENDATION:
Recommend to the City Council to adopt a Resolution to establish Objective Design Standards (ODS) for multi-family and 
mixed-use residential projects; adopt an Ordinance to amend the Zoning Code (Title 27) related to ODS and review 
processes for multi-family and mixed-use residential projects, align fence height standards to match building code 
standards; and determine the ODS and Zoning Code amendments are exempt from further environmental review pursuant 
to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Section 15061(b)(3). 
BACKGROUND:
Overview
In response to state legislation, the Community Development Department is proposing Draft Objective Design Standards 
(ODS) and associated code amendments to provide objective criteria for evaluating multi-family or mixed-use residential 
development projects. These Draft ODS (Attachment 1) were developed based on the City’s existing design guidelines, 
policies, specific plans, Zoning Code, and recommendations provided through two Planning Commission study sessions and 
three community meetings. To further streamline the development review process and as a part of the City’s Housing 
Element program implementation, a code amendment to increase the types of projects that can be approved by the 
Zoning Administrator from 5 units to up to 25 units is also proposed. The amendments would also align fence height 
standard for planning applications with building code standards of seven feet. A clean and track changes version of the 
proposed code amendment language can be found in Attachments 2 and 3. If approved by the City Council, the ODS and 
code amendments would become effective 30 days after approval. Projects that have not been submitted prior to this 
effective date would be subject to the ODS. 
Government Code Section 65400 requires the City’s legislative body to implement the City’s adopted General Plan, so that 
it will serve as an effective guide for orderly growth and development. To implement the General Plan, Government Code 
Section 65860 provides the City Council the authority to review and update the City’s Zoning Code to ensure that the 
review processes and requirements are compatible with the objectives, policies, and programs specified in the General 
Plan. The City’s Zoning Code (SMMC 27.060.040(c)) authorizes the Planning Commission to review amendments to the 
Zoning Code and make a recommendation to the City Council. The proposed amendments would streamline the review 
process for small-scale housing projects, consistent with the City’s policies to promote housing production. 
Staff proposes that the Zoning Code be amended to adopt the ODS by reference, but that the actual ODS be adopted as a 
policy by resolution rather than by ordinance. This would allow for refinement of the ODS during implementation and 
make it easier to respond to evolving building practices and community goals and objectives. Staff also recommends a 
three-year report back with any proposed adjustments or amendments identified while implementing these new

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
standards and requirements.
Legislative Background
To address the housing crisis, the State of California has enacted many new housing related laws, including Senate Bill (SB) 
35, SB 330, SB 9, and the State Density Bonus Law, that aim to streamline the housing approval process for applications 
involving two or more units and by requiring projects only be reviewed against objective standards to ensure that local 
housing production targets are achieved. As defined, objective standards are “standards that involve no personal or 
subjective judgement by a public official and are uniformly verifiable by reference to an external and uniform benchmark 
or criterion available and knowable by both the development applicant or proponent and the public official before 
submittal” (Government Code Section 65913.4). 
Adoption of these local objective standards will provide the community and developers with a streamlined and predictable 
development review process through a clear set of criteria to guide development and will establish an objective 
framework to evaluate projects against. Adherence to the City’s ODS document will also further maintain and enhance San 
Mateo’s built environment to ensure that new development fits contextually into surrounding neighborhoods and 
districts. 
Current and Proposed Review Process 
Currently, the City has multiple design guidelines for specific building types and neighborhood areas and largely relies on a 
discretionary design review process when considering development applications. In this process, the Planning Commission 
(or other appropriate approval body) has the ultimate discretion to determine if a project conforms to the City’s design 
guidelines. With implementation of the ODS, the discretion to determine if a design guideline is met would be removed 
from the process. A project could not be denied on discretionary design review findings if it complies with the ODS. A shift 
to objective standards along with the proposed code amendments to expand the projects that can be approved by the 
Zoning Administrator (i.e. City staff) will reduce review times and provide an opportunity for smaller “missing-middle” 
housing projects to be reviewed at the staff-level.
Objective Design Standards Approach and Content Outline
The proposed ODS aim to maintain and enhance the City’s built environment while providing flexibility that accommodates 
emerging development trends and building techniques. The ODS are focused on private property and provide a minimum 
standard that projects must meet. The ODS are additive to all other base development standards contained within the 
Zoning Code (Title 27), which include setbacks, height, coverage, density, open space, buffers, and landscaping 
requirements. If a project does not meet the ODS, applicants may elect to go through the city’s standard discretionary 
review process, which provides additional flexibility in design. 
The ODS document is organized into two main sections: General Standards that apply to all development and Specific Plan 
Area Standards. The General Standards include objective standards for building placement, site layout, vehicular access 
and parking, building massing and articulation, colors and materials, roof design, utility and accessory structures, and 
outdoor spaces and amenities. Many of the standards also have corresponding graphics to aid in visualization. 
The standards of the Specific Plan Area section of the proposed ODS document are additive to the General Standards. 
Several key areas of the City, which include various sections of El Camino Real, the Hillsdale Caltrain station, and 
Downtown are subject to additional standards contained in specific plans. A map of these areas is included in Attachment 
6. The Specific Plan Section of the ODS document seeks to clarify the subjective standards of these documents and 
includes a new Spanish Revival architectural style requirement in the Downtown and Vision of the Gateway areas in 
response of Planning Commission recommendations (further discussed below). 
Previous Planning Commission Study Sessions and Community Workshops (2021 & 2023)
Community Workshops and Developers’ Round Table 
The first ODS community workshop was held on June 1, 2021 and had approximately 30 attendees. The second workshop 
series which also included a separate developers’ roundtable session was held on April 6, 2023 and had approximately 15 
attendees each. Key design elements including site design, massing, articulation, materials, windows, transitional design,

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
streetscape relationship, open space, pedestrian connections, design flexibility, improved pedestrian spaces, and lighting 
and site security were discussed. The mural boards for all the community workshops generated by public comments are 
included in Attachment 4. 
Planning Commission Study Sessions 
A study session was held on August 24, 2021 in which a status report on the progress of the ODS was presented to the 
Planning Commission. A second Planning Commission study session was held on August 10, 2023 where the Planning 
Commission provided detailed feedback and recommendations on the proposed standards (see below for further 
discussion). Minutes of this meeting are included in Attachment 5. 
DISCUSSION: 
Objective Design Standards
A full draft version of the City’s ODS was published in July 2023 for public review and comment. At the August 8, 2023 
study session, the Planning Commission provided detailed recommendations and comments on the proposed draft 
language. A summary of main comments and the changes made to the document are outlined below: 
1.
Building Articulation
Comments: Requirements for both horizontal and vertical massing breaks may result in buildings being too 
articulated with overly repetitive building wall designs. Recommendation to provide alternative methods to break 
up a building’s mass. 
Response: Applicants may now choose between adhering to horizontal wall plane breaks, vertical wall plane 
breaks, or a third massing option “Flat Plane Variation” to articulate a structure. The flat plane variation option 
breaks up a building’s mass every 20-50 feet depending on building type, through the inclusion or change of 
architectural elements such as colors/materials, bands, string courses, columns, windows, and window 
treatments. An additional requirement that no three consecutive wall sections utilizing flat plane variation shall be 
identical is included to reduce the occurrence of overly repetitive building wall designs.     
2.
Building Massing and Stepbacks  
Comments: Requirements for base/middle/top configuration for mid-rise buildings may be difficult to 
accommodate in a shorter building and stepbacks in transition areas would create a wedding cake design. 
Recommendation to reevaluate building massing and transitional stepback requirements. 
Response: The rule of thirds in which buildings are broken into three primary masses was added as a requirement 
for all structures three stories or more. The language was clarified to require one stepback above the second story 
(as opposed to every story above the second story) or a greater setback, for mid and high-rise buildings in 
transition areas to avoid wedding cake building designs.
3.
Roof Form and Building Verticality 
Comments: Roof form requirements for all building types may be too constraining. Recommendation to simplify 
roof form requirements and incorporate stronger vertical element requirements.
Response: Roof form standards for mid and high-rise buildings were removed and additional requirements for 
windows and doors to be rectangular (taller than they are wide), and vertically aligned, that vertical window 
elements be maintained through divided lights, and that windows, doors, arches, and balconies be aligned with 
(and of an equal or smaller size than) the elements of the floors below were incorporated to provide stronger 
building verticality standards. 
4.
Plazas, Colors and Materials, and Residential Entries 
Planning Commission Comments: Downtown plaza standards could create too many plazas, color and material 
requirements may be too restrictive, and requirements for raised ground floor street facing residential entries may 
create accessibility issues. Recommendation that an alternative to plazas or public seating in the downtown be 
explored, that color requirements should allow for bright colors and be relaxed, that plywood and vinyl be allowed 
materials, and that raised residential entry requirements be removed. 
Response: In addition to plazas or seating, publicly accessible open space has been added as an alternative

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
frontage entry option in the Downtown area. The definition of neon was refined to allow for brighter colors; 
required colors/materials were reduced from a minimum of 4 to 3; the requirement that each color/material 
constitute at least 15% of the building façade was reduced to 10%; vinyl windows, and plywood as an accent 
material would now be permitted. Raised or lowered residential entry requirements for units adjacent to a public 
sidewalk were retained to prevent direct line of sight into a ground floor unit as viewed from the adjacent sidewalk 
and as ramps can be incorporated into building designs to address accessibility. 
5.
Architectural Styles
Comments: Emphasis on menu option approach and flexibility of the ODS document may lead to inconsistent 
designs and bland, modern building architectural styles. Recommend that architectural type requirements such as 
Spanish Revival be integrated into the document for all development north of HWY 92 or by neighborhood.  
Response: A Spanish Colonial Revival architectural style requirement has been incorporated into the Downtown 
and Vision of the Gateway plan areas where the most concern regarding incongruent architectural styles has been 
raised by the community. Requiring certain architectural styles in other areas of the City would require extensive 
outreach and was infeasible given the time constraints associated with state grant funding for this project. 
However, upon completion of the City’s General Plan Update effort, several implementation efforts would enable 
staff to evaluate design, historic preservation, and community input for different parts of the City. Staff intends the 
implementation of these standards to be an iterative process and to revisit the ODS in three years to evaluate their 
effectiveness and update as necessary. 
Other changes that were incorporated into the revised Draft ODS based on Planning Commission feedback include: 
•
A clarification that chain link or vinyl fencing is prohibited as a screening material for parking or utility structures.  
•
Addition of alternative corner treatment element options beyond a tower or corner cut. 
•
A clarification of the term “shade structure”.
•
Reduced minimum ground floor ceiling height requirements from 15 to 12 feet.
•
Reduced minimum window recesses from 6 to 4 inches. 
•
Removal of paseo generation requirements.
•
Expanding where dog run and community garden areas can contribute to required open space requirements to 
developments exceeding 25 units from the previous 50-unit requirement.  
•
Providing a definition of “stepback”. 
•
Reducing setback alternatives from 40 to 20 feet for midrise buildings in transition areas. 
Code Amendments
A summary of the proposed code amendments, which includes allowing projects up to 25 units to be approved by the 
Zoning Administrator are summarized in Table below. These amendments will further support housing production in San 
Mateo, and particularly missing middle housing, by streamlining the development review process for smaller projects and 
incorporating objective standards within the Zoning Code by reference: 
PROPOSED CODE AMENDMENTS
Municipal Code Section
Proposed Change
1
27.060.020 “Zoning Administrator 
Powers and Duties”
Increase the Zoning Administrator power and duties to approve projects 
from less than six residential units to up to twenty-five residential units for 
projects that meet objective design standards. 
Increase fence height from six feet to over seven feet for rear and side yards 
when Zoning Administrator Approval is required, to align with the Building 
Code. 
2
27.060.040 “Planning Commission 
Jurisdiction”
Clarify that the Planning Commission would review projects with over 
twenty-five units that meet objective design standards and all projects six or

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
more units that do not meet objective design standards. 
3
27.08.030 “Site Plan and 
Architectural Review (SPAR)”
Increase the threshold for when fences require a SPAR from six to seven feet 
in height, to align with the Building Code. 
5
27.21.030 “Rules of Procedure”
Incorporate the Objective Design Standards by reference. 
6
27.39.120 “Residential Development 
Standards”
Incorporate the Objective Design Standards by reference. 
NEXT STEPS:
Upon a recommendation by the Planning Commission, this item will be scheduled for public hearing before City Council for 
consideration and ordinance introduction. If approved, the ordinance will be brought to City Council for adoption and will 
go into effect 30-days later. The Department is planning to provide an update to the City Council after the ODS has been in 
effect for three years, to review effectiveness of the standards and determine if any adjustments or updates are 
warranted.
PUBLIC COMMENTS: 
Three public comments have been received since the August 2023 study session and provide comments and concerns 
about building heights, the issuance of demolition permits, transition zones, and the protection and preservation of 
neighborhoods. These comments are included in Attachment 7. Any additional public comments received after the 
publication of this report will be provided to the Planning Commission as a post-publication attachment. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that the adoption of objective standards 
and the proposed code changes refining the review process and for miscellaneous edits for consistency will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065). Proposals for multi-family or residential 
mixed-used development will be considered as part of individual projects and will be evaluated pursuant to CEQA at the 
time of application submittal.  
NOTICE PROVIDED:
In accordance with Government Code Section 65090 and 65091, and the City’s Municipal Code public noticing 
requirements, the notice for this public hearing was published in a local newspaper of general circulation, posted in three 
public facilities, and noticed to the following parties at least ten (10) days in advance of Planning Commission meeting:
•
The City’s social media sites;
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and
•
The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Draft Council Resolution with Objective Design Standards
Att 2 – Draft Ordinance 
Att 3 – Draft Ordinance (Track Changes)
Att 4 – Community Workshop and Developer Roundtable Mural Boards
Att 5 – Planning Commission Study Session Meeting Minutes August 8, 2023
Att 6 – Specific Plan Area Map
Att 7 – Public Comments
STAFF CONTACT
Laura Richstone, Associate Planner
LRichstone@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7205

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023) 
 
RESOLUTION TO ESTABLISH CITYWIDE OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS FOR QUALIFYING MULTI-FAMILY AND 
RESIDENTIAL MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS  
 (PA 2019-016, OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS) 
 
WHEREAS, the State of California adopted Senate Bills (SB) 35, SB 167, and SB 330, to establish a 
streamlined review process for housing development projects, as defined, and these laws restrict the City’s 
ability to deny or reduce the density of qualifying housing development projects, and limit local jurisdictions’ 
review of such projects to standards that are objective in that they are uniformly verifiable to an external and 
uniform benchmark or criterion, involve no personal or subjective judgment by a public official, and are 
knowable by both the applicant and City; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City’s Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines, Duplex Design Guidelines, Small Lot 
Design Guidelines, Multi-family Design Guidelines, Downtown Retail Core and Downtown Historic District Design 
Guidelines, Mid and South El Camino Real Design Guidelines, El Camino Master Plan, Hillsdale Station Area Plan, 
Mariner’s Island Plan, San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit Oriented Development Plan and Vision of the Gateway 
Plan areas contain limited objective design standards; and  
 
WHEREAS, the City Council adopted Resolution No. 72 (2019) authorizing application for, and receipt of, 
SB 2 Planning Grant Program Funds, including execution of an agreement with the California Department of 
Housing and Community Development and the City of San Mateo for the preparation of Objective Design 
Standards, which would be completed once the objective standards are adopted; and  
 
WHEREAS, the purpose of adopting citywide Objective Design Standards is to comply with State 
legislation, implement streamlined and ministerial review processes for qualifying housing projects, provide a 
clear set of criteria to guide development, and establish an objective framework by which qualifying projects will 
be evaluated; and 
 
WHEREAS, upon adoption, these objective design standards shall supersede and replace the interim 
objective design standards for qualifying SB 9 development carried out under Section 27.21 of the San Mateo 
Municipal code adopted via Resolution No. 107 (2022); and  
 
WHEREAS, the City’s Objective Design Standards were developed with extensive public and Planning 
Commission input through two Planning Commission Study Sessions and three community workshops held 
between 2021 and 2023; and  
 
WHEREAS, multi-family and residential mixed-use projects submitted after the effective date of this 
Resolution would be subject to Objective Design Standards; and

--- page 15 ---
WHEREAS, as an alternative, any applicant of a qualifying housing development project seeking 
exceptions to the Objective Design Standards may elect to proceed with the City’s existing discretionary design 
review process; and 
 
WHEREAS, on October__________, 2023, the Planning Commission conducted a duly noticed public 
hearing to consider Citywide Objective Design Standards for multi-family and residential mixed-use 
development, and associated agenda report, public comments, and staff recommendations and provided a 
recommendation of approval to the City Council; and  
 
WHEREAS on November___________, 2023 the City Council held a duly noticed public hearing to 
consider Citywide Objective Design Standards for multi-family and residential mixed-development and 
associated agenda report, public comments, staff recommendations, and Planning Commission 
recommendations. 
 
NOW THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA HEREBY RESOLVES that: 
1. Objective design standards referenced in the San Mateo Municipal Code shall include the 
standards attached hereto as Exhibit A.  
2. Nothing in this Resolution or exhibit is intended to preclude the application of building codes or 
state and location regulations or other laws applicable to housing development projects.  
3. In the event any section, clause, or provision of this resolution or its exhibits shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause, or provision shall be deemed severable and all 
other sections or portions here of shall remain in full effect.  
 
NOW, THEREFORE THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS that:  
 
1. New qualifying multi-family and residential mixed-use development projects, submitted for a 
formal Planning Application after the effective date of this resolution, shall be subject to the 
citywide Objective Design Standards contained in Exhibit A.  
2. This Resolution will take effect concurrently with the associated code amendments adopted by 
City Council via Ordinance on _________________. 
3. In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065, adoption of these Citywide Objective 
Design standards is subject to the “common sense” exemption, because adoption of objective 
design standards will not result in a direct or indirect impact on the physical environment. 
(Public Resources Code Section 21065; CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3)). Proposals for 
multi-family or residential mixed-used development will be considered as part of individual 
projects and will be evaluated pursuant to CEQA at the time of application submittal.   
 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023) adopted by the City Council of the City of San Mateo, California, at regular 
meeting held on November ____, 2023 by the following vote of the City Council:  
 
AYES: 
NOES: 
ABSENT:

--- page 16 ---
ATTEST: 
 
 
Martin McTaggart, Deputy City Clerk  
Amourence Lee, Mayor

--- page 17 ---
MULTIͳFAMILY AND 
RESIDENTIAL MIXEDͳUSE
OBJECTIVE 
DESIGN 
STANDARDS
October 2023
PUBLIC HEARING DRAFT
CITY OF SAN MATEO
EXHIBIT A

--- page 18 ---
I
Saallitwra

a)
eel



--- page 19 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
OBJECTIVE DESIGN 
STANDARDS
October 2023

--- page 20 ---
I V   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY COUNCIL 
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges, Council Member
Adam Loraine, Council Member
Rob Newsom Jr., Council Member
PLANNING COMMISSION
John Ebneter, Chair
Seema Patel, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent, Commissioner
MarƟ n Wiggins, Commissioner
Margaret Williams, Commissioner
DEPARTMENTAL STAFF
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager and Zoning 
Administrator
Laura Richstone, Associate Planner
Wendy Lao, Associate Planner
MIG
Laura R. Stetson, Principal
ChrisƟ ne ScoƩ  Thomson, Director of 
Sustainability/Urban Planning & Design
CJ Davis, Senior Urban Designer
Madeleine Salem, Graphic Designer
Planarchology, LLC
Gregory D. Thomson, Principal
Good City Company
Aaron Aknin, Principal
Nicholas Hamilton, Senior Planner
Dara Phung, Graphic Designer
All Images used in this report have been provided 
by the City of San Mateo or are sourced from 
MIG or Good City Company. All graphic maps 
and models are developed by MIG or Good City 
Company for use by the City of San Mateo.

--- page 21 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   V
O R G A N I Z A T I O N
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. ORGANIZATION
1.1 Organization ..................................1
2. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
2.1 Purpose ..........................................3
2.2 Applicability ...................................3
2.3 Types of Buildings Regulated ..........4
3. SITE PLANNING
3.1 Pedestrian Access and 
Accommodations  ...........................9
3.2 Parking, Access, 
and Driveways  ............................. 11
3.3 Frontage Elements in Central Business    
District (CBD) Zoning District ........ 13
4. BUILDING DESIGN AND 
ARCHITECTURE
4.1 Massing and Articulation .............. 15
4.2 Ground Floor Requirements .......... 26
4.3 Additional Standards for 
Mixed-Use Buildings ..................... 27
4.4 Transitions and Screening ............. 28
4.5 Roof Form  ................................... 30
4.6 Windows, Doors, Entry Design,
and Security  ................................ 31
4.7 Materials and Colors .................... 39
4.8 Additions to Existing Structures .... 41
5. LANDSCAPING, OPEN SPACE, AND 
EXTERIOR LIGHTING
5.1 Landscaping and Open Space  ....... 43
5.2 Exterior Lighting ........................... 47
6. OTHER SITE FEATURES
6.1 Accessory Structures and      
Enclosures  ....................................9
6.2 Utilities and Mechanical 
Equipment ................................... 50
6.3 Required Screening  ..................... 51
6.4 Lightwells .................................... 51
7. SPECIFIC PLAN AREA STANDARDS
7.1 Downtown Plan Area  ................... 54
7.2 El Camino Real Master Plan Area  .. 59
7.3 Hillsdale Station Area  .................. 61
7.4 Mariner’s Island
Specific Plan Area  ........................ 64
7.5 Mid and South El Camino Real  ..... 65
7.6 San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit 
Oriented Development 
Plan Area ..................................... 66
7.7 Vision of the Gateway................... 68
8. DEFINITIONS ................................. 71

--- page 22 ---
V I   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
BAY MEADOWS, CITY OF SAN MATEO

--- page 23 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   1
O R G A N I Z A T I O N
1.1 ORGANIZATION
These ObjecƟ ve Design Standards for the City of San Mateo are organized into the following secƟ ons.
SecƟ on 1 outlines the organizaƟ on of the document.
SecƟ on 2 describes the purpose and applicability of these ObjecƟ ve Design Standards for qualifying 
mulƟ -family and residenƟ al mixed-use development projects in the City of San Mateo.
SecƟ ons 3, 4, 5, and 6 work together and set forth standards that apply to projects at the site 
planning, building design, and site detail levels. General standards applicable to all development are 
provided at the beginning of each secƟ on, followed by speciﬁ c standards based on building type (low-
rise, mid-rise, and high-rise).
SecƟ on 7 establishes addiƟ ve standards applicable within adopted speciﬁ c plan areas.  
SecƟ on 8 provides supplementary deﬁ niƟ ons to those contained in San Mateo Municipal Code 
(SMMC) Chapter 27.04 (Zoning – Deﬁ niƟ ons).
ORGANIZATION
1
Graphics uƟ lized in the following pages are to illustrate the speciﬁ c components idenƟ ﬁ ed and may 
not necessarily capture all standards of the document with the graphic. Graphics, annotaƟ ons, and 
capƟ ons shall not be construed to represent standards that are not speciﬁ cally idenƟ ﬁ ed in the graphic 
and are illustraƟ ve for conceptual purposes; the standards text shall prevail.

--- page 24 ---
2   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e oCASA BAYWOOD, CITY OF SAN MATEO

--- page 25 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   3
P U R P O S E  A N D  A P P L I C A B I L I T Y
2
PURPOSE AND 
APPLICABILITY
2.1 PURPOSE
These ObjecƟ ve Design Standards (ODS) are established to:
A. Provide clear, objecƟ ve, and measurable standards for qualifying mulƟ -family and residenƟ al 
mixed-use development throughout the City; 
B. Streamline the review of qualifying mulƟ -family and residenƟ al mixed-use development projects 
to address housing needs of all income levels;
C. Maintain and enhance San Mateo’s charm through the built environment and ensure new 
development ﬁ ts contextually into surrounding neighborhoods and districts by incorporaƟ ng 
quality design in architectural styles, building massing, detailing, arƟ culaƟ on, and materials/colors; 
and
D. Ensure that pedestrian movement and experiences are considered foremost in the massing, 
placement, and design of new development.
2.2 APPLICABILITY
A. The ODS set forth in this document apply to new mulƟ -family development, residenƟ al mixed-use 
development, and addiƟ ons to mulƟ -family and residenƟ al mixed-use development pursuant to 
any provision of state law which references objecƟ ve design standards, including but not limited 
to Government Code SecƟ on 65589.5 (Housing Accountability Act) and SecƟ on 65913.4, as may be 
amended from Ɵ me to Ɵ me. 
B. These ODS apply to private development projects on private property. The ODS may work in 
conjuncƟ on with adopted City of San Mateo documents that regulate use of and required 
improvements to public property abuƫ  ng a development site.
C. These ODS are addiƟ ve to the requirements of the zoning district in which a development site is 
located, as speciﬁ ed in San Mateo Municipal Code Title 27 (Zoning) or any other provisions of the 
San Mateo Municipal Code. In the event of conﬂ ict, the San Mateo Municipal Code shall apply.
D. In the event of any internal conﬂ ict within this document between citywide standards and 
standards applicable to a speciﬁ c plan area, the speciﬁ c plan area standards shall apply.

--- page 26 ---
4   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
E. If a project site is included within two or more speciﬁ c plan areas simultaneously, all speciﬁ c plan 
area standards shall apply.
F. Graphics uƟ lized in this document are to illustrate the speciﬁ c components idenƟ ﬁ ed and may not 
necessarily capture all standards of the document with the graphic. Graphics, annotaƟ ons, and 
capƟ ons shall not be construed to represent standards that are not speciﬁ cally idenƟ ﬁ ed in the 
graphic and are illustraƟ ve for conceptual purposes; the standards text shall prevail.
G. Projects that do not adhere to the these ObjecƟ ve Design Standards may elect an alternaƟ ve review 
subject to the City’s discreƟ onary review process, applicable design guidelines, and General Plan 
policies and goals. Projects aﬀ orded concessions, waivers, or other density bonuses under the 
State Density Bonus Law (Government Code SecƟ on 65915), and projects subject to Senate Bill 35 
(Government Code SecƟ on 65913) or any other applicable state law, may sƟ ll use the ObjecƟ ve 
Design Standards or elect to uƟ lize the City’s discreƟ onary design review process. 
2.3 TYPES OF BUILDINGS REGULATED
These standards establish regulaƟ ons for three general building types: low-rise, mid-rise, and high-rise 
buildings, deﬁ ned below: 
A. Low-rise shall mean buildings up to three (3) stories but no more than thirty-ﬁ ve (35) feet in height.
B. Mid-rise shall mean buildings between four (4) and seven (7) stories but not more than ninety (90) 
feet in height.
C. High-rise shall mean buildings eight (8) or more stories or more than ninety (90) feet in height.
D. Where a standard within this document does not specify a speciﬁ c building type, the standard shall 
apply to all building types.

--- page 27 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   5
P U R P O S E  A N D  A P P L I C A B I L I T Y
Maximum of
35 feet in height
3-Story Development
2-Story Development
1-Story Development
Figure 1: Low-rise shall mean buildings up to three (3) stories but no more than thirty-ﬁ ve (35) feet in height. 
(SecƟ on 2.2.H.A)
Figure 2: Two-story low-rise townhomes (SecƟ on 2.2.H.A)
Low-rise shall mean buildings up to three (3) stories but no more than thirty-ﬁ ve (35) feet in height.
Figure 3: Two-story low-rise duplex (SecƟ on 2.2.H.A) 
Low-Rise Buildings

--- page 28 ---
6   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
Maximum of
90 feet in height
6-Story Development
Figure 4: Mid-rise shall mean buildings between four (4) and seven (7) stories but not more than ninety (90) feet in height.   
(SecƟ on 2.2.H.B)
Mid-rise shall mean buildings between four (4) and seven (7) stories but not more than ninety (90) 
feet in height. 
Mid-Rise Buildings 
Figure 5: Four-story mid-rise development (SecƟ on 2.2.H.B)
Figure 6: Five-story mid-rise development (SecƟ on 2.2.H.B)

--- page 29 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   7
P U R P O S E  A N D  A P P L I C A B I L I T Y
Minimum of
90 feet in height
Figure 7: High-rise shall mean buildings eight or more stories or greater than ninety (90) feet in height (SecƟ on 2.2.H.C)
High-Rise Buildings 
High-rise shall mean buildings eight (8) or more stories or more than ninety (90) feet in height.
Figure 8: Ten-story high-rise development (SecƟ on 2.2.H.C)
Figure 9: Ten-story high-rise development (SecƟ on 2.2.H.C)

--- page 30 ---
8   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
CITY OF SAN MATEO

--- page 31 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   9
S I T E  P L A N N I N G
3
SITE PLANNING
3.1 PEDESTRIAN ACCESS AND ACCOMMODATIONS 
3.1.1 Pedestrian Paths
Onsite pedestrian paths shall comply with the following: 
A. The minimum width of a public pedestrian path shall be six (6) feet.
B. All pedestrian paths on private property shall be clearly delineated using at least one (1) of the 
following:
1. Colored and/or textured concrete
2. Paving blocks or stones
3. Grasscrete
Public pedestrian paths are 
a minimum of 6 feet wide
Private paths clearly 
delineated (e.g. brick)
Figure 10: Pedestrian paths on private property are clearly 
delineated with colored concrete (SecƟ on: 3.1.1.B).
4. Tile
5. Brick
6. Masonry
Public pedestrian paths are 
a minimum of 6 feet wide
Figure 11: Public pedestrian paths shall be a minimum of 
six (6) feet wide (SecƟ on: 3.1.1.A).

--- page 32 ---
1 0   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
3.1.2 Pedestrian Paseos   
If provided, pedestrian paseo(s) shall:
A. Be open to the sky and connect to public sidewalks (i.e., paseos shall not dead end).
B. Have a minimum twelve (12)-foot width, as measured from building face to adjacent building face 
for low-rise buildings.
C. Have a minimum twenty (20)-foot width, as measured from building face to adjacent building face 
for mid-rise and high-rise buildings. 
D. Provide a minimum eight (8)-foot-wide public access easement within the required minimum 
paseo width for pedestrian access.
E. Provide pedestrian-scale lighƟ ng along the length of the paseo. Such lighƟ ng shall be mounted not 
higher than twelve (12) feet, meet the latest IlluminaƟ ng Engineering Society (IES) recommended 
values, and be directed downward or have a light cap.
Minimum 8-foot
public easement
Minimum 12-foot width 
between buildings (from 
building face to building 
face) for low-rise buildings
Figure 12: A pedestrian paseo between low-rise buildings has a minimum eight (8)-foot-wide public access easement and a 
minimum twelve (12)-foot width, as measured from building face to adjacent building face (SecƟ ons 3.1.2.B and 3.1.2.D).

--- page 33 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   1 1
S I T E  P L A N N I N G
F. Pedestrian paseos shall include at least three (3) of the following pedestrian ameniƟ es every 
twenty (20) linear feet: 
1. Bench(es)
2. Shade structure(s)
3. Tree(s) consistent with the City Landscape 
Ordinance
4. Water feature or water fountain
5. Café tables and chairs
6. Textured, mulƟ -colored, or paƩ erned 
pavement
7. Public art
8. DecoraƟ ve overhead lighƟ ng
Bench
ĞĐŽƌĂƟǀĞůŝŐŚƟŶŐ
dƌĞĞƐĐŽŶƐŝƐƚĞŶƚǁŝƚŚƚŚĞ
ŝƚǇ>ĂŶĚƐĐĂƉĞKƌĚŝŶĂŶĐĞ
Figure 13: A pedestrian paseo includes trees (shade structures) consistent with the City Landscape Ordinance, a bench, and 
decoraƟ ve lighƟ ng (SecƟ on 3.1.2.F).

--- page 34 ---
1 2   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
3.2 PARKING, ACCESS, AND DRIVEWAYS 
3.2.1 Vehicle and Parking Area Screening
Where vehicles are visible from a public right-of-way (i.e., surface parking lots or rooŌ op garages), the 
following standards shall apply:
A. Parking areas shall not be established within any required front setback area.
B. Surface parking areas, including driveways, shall not occupy more than twenty-ﬁ ve (25) percent or 
sixty (60) feet of the project frontage, whichever is greater. 
C. Parking areas shall be screened from view from the adjacent primary street with a three (3)-foot-
high textured or paƩ erned block wall that is capped, or a landscape hedge, or combinaƟ on of the 
two. If a wall is used, the wall shall be treated with a graﬃ  Ɵ -resistant coaƟ ng. 
D. Chain link or vinyl fencing shall be prohibited as a screening material for parking, lightwells, and 
uƟ lity structures/equipment.
Driveways (or surface
parking) are no more than
25% ofproject frontage
No parking in
front setback area
Figure 14: Parking and driveways shall occupy no more than twenty-ﬁ ve (25) percent or sixty (60) feet of the project 
frontage, whichever is greater (SecƟ on 3.2.1.B).

--- page 35 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   1 3
S I T E  P L A N N I N G
3.2.2 Roof-top Parking 
Roof-top parking shall be screened by a parapet wall of a minimum three (3)-foot height and shall be 
constructed of the same material(s) as the building on which it is located.
3.2.3 Parking Entrances and Curb Cuts
For developments that front more than one (1) street, driveways and entrances to parking faciliƟ es 
(surface parking or parking structures) shall be located on the secondary street frontage, side street, 
or alley unless access is only provided from the primary street frontage, or if the City traﬃ  c engineer 
requires access to occur from a primary street for traﬃ  c ﬂ ow purposes. In circumstances in which a 
development site fronts two (2) primary streets, the developer may select the street to be used for 
the parking entrance.
Parking is screened
to at least 3 feet
Figure 15: The parking area is screened from view from the adjacent primary street with a three (3)-foot-high landscaped 
hedge. (SecƟ on 3.2.1.C).

--- page 36 ---
1 4   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
Figure 17: AcƟ ve uses ground level parking structure 
(SecƟ on 3.2.4)
3.2.4 Parking Structures 
A. For mixed-use buildings, any structured parking facility integrated into the building and located 
along a street shall not have more than ﬁ Ō y (50) percent of that frontage consisƟ ng of non-acƟ ve 
uses, as deﬁ ned in this document. Any porƟ on of the frontage used for parking shall either be 
enclosed or shall have ground-level screening consisƟ ng of decoraƟ ve metal grates, evergreen 
landscaping, or combinaƟ on of the two. 
B. For mulƟ -family residenƟ al buildings, any structured parking facility integrated into the building 
and located along or facing a public street shall either be enclosed or shall have ground-level 
screening consisƟ ng of decoraƟ ve metal grates, evergreen landscaping, or both. 
C. Any stand-alone parking structure located along or facing a public right-of-way shall include at 
least one (1) of the following treatments: 
1. Landscape screening consisƟ ng of evergreen species covering at least the ﬁ rst two (2) lower 
stories of the parking structure.
2. Public murals or art.
3. DecoraƟ ve screening elements aƩ ached to the structure, such as grills or verƟ cal slats.
Figure 16: DecoraƟ ve screening elements screen the 
parking structure from the public right-of-way 
(SecƟ on 3.2.4.C.3).

--- page 37 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   1 5
S I T E  P L A N N I N G
3.3 FRONTAGE ELEMENTS IN CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT ΈCBDΉ 
ZONING DISTRICT
In the CBD zoning district, a building’s primary street frontage shall include at least one (1) of the 
following: 
3.3.1 Plazas or Publicly Accessible Open Space
A publicly accessible plaza/publicly accessible open space, subject to the following: 
A. For each one hundred ﬁ Ō y (150) feet of horizontal building frontage or porƟ on thereof, at least 
one hundred (100) square feet of plaza/publicly accessible open area shall be provided. 
B. Each plaza/publicly accessible open space shall have a minimum depth and width of ten (10) feet. 
C. Where more than one (1) plaza area/publicly accessible open space is required based on building 
frontage, plaza/open space areas may be combined into one larger area. 
D. For buildings with a horizontal length of less than one hundred and ﬁ Ō y (150) feet, no plaza or 
publicly accessible open space is required. However, public seaƟ ng shall be provided along the 
building frontage as required by subsecƟ on 3.3.2.
3.3.2 Seating
Publicly accessible seaƟ ng shall be provided on 
private property, subject to the following:
A. One (1) seaƟ ng unit shall be provided for 
each ﬁ Ō y (50) horizontal feet of building 
frontage, with a seaƟ ng unit deﬁ ned to be a 
seaƟ ng area at least two (2) feet in width. 
B. Public seaƟ ng shall either be distributed 
along the street frontage or provided in 
groupings within plazas and/or publicly 
accessible open spaces. 
C. At least ﬁ Ō y (50) percent of provided public 
seats shall have backs and armrests.
Back and armrests on at 
ůĞĂƐƚϱϬйŽĨƌĞƋƵŝƌĞĚƐĞĂƟŶŐ
ZĞƋƵŝƌĞĚƉƵďůŝĐƐĞĂƟŶŐ
ŝƐĚŝƐƚƌŝďƵƚĞĚĂůŽŶŐƐƚƌĞĞƚ
ĨƌŽŶƚĂŐĞŽƌŐƌŽƵƉĞĚŝŶƉůĂǌĂƐ
DƵůƟƉůĞƌĞƋƵŝƌĞĚŽƉĞŶƐƉĂĐĞ
areas may be combined into
ŽŶĞůĂƌŐĞƌƉůĂǌĂ͘
Figure 18: Publicly accessible seaƟ ng on private property 
(SecƟ on 3.3.2)

--- page 38 ---
1 4   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
BAY MEADOWS, CITY OF SAN MATEO

--- page 39 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   1 5
B U I L D I N G  D E S I G N  A N D  A R C H I T E C T U R E
4
BUILDING DESIGN AND 
ARCHITECTURE
4.1 MASSING AND ARTICULATION
4.1.1 Blank Walls 
Blank walls shall be limited to a maximum of twenty (20) feet in length on all stories. 
4.1.2 Articulations Details 
The following façade arƟ culaƟ ons shall be a minimum depth of eighteen (18) inches. These shall be in 
addiƟ on to requirements for wall plane and massing breaks idenƟ ﬁ ed below for each building type. 
For low-rise and mid-rise buildings, at least two (2) of the following shall be provided. For high-rise 
buildings, at least three (3) of the following shall be provided: 
A. Architectural projecƟ ons such as roof eaves, 
overhangs, cornices, pergolas, or metal, wood, 
or glass awnings
B. Balconies per unit 
C. Box or bay windows per unit
D. Window recesses and edges, including moldings 
and reveals with at least four (4)-inch depth
E. ProjecƟ ng or recessed rooms or units 
for a minimum of ten (10) percent of the 
units along the building façade for low-rise 
development or a minimum of thirty (30) 
percent of the units for mid and high-rise 
development 
F. Horizontal mouldings
Window recesses and edges,
including reveals moldings, 
have at least 4 inches in depth
Balconies
per unit
Bay windows
ƌĐŚŝƚĞĐƵƌĂůƉƌŽũĞĐƟŽŶƐ
such as roof eaves
ƌĐŚŝƚĞĐƵƌĂůƉƌŽũĞĐƟŽŶƐ
such as roof eaves
ƌĐŚŝƚĞĐƵƌĂůƉƌŽũĞĐƟŽŶƐ
such as roof eaves
Figure 19: A low-rise development with at least four diﬀ erent façade arƟ culaƟ ons (SecƟ on 4.1.2).

--- page 40 ---
1 6   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
4.1.3 Building Materials and Color
Buildings shall not be monochromaƟ c in color scheme and use of materials. The following approaches 
shall be used: 
A. A combinaƟ on of at least three (3) diﬀ erent colors and/or materials shall be used on each building 
façade, exclusive of trim and roof. For example, the combinaƟ on could be two (2) diﬀ erent colors 
and one (1) diﬀ erent material. No more than six (6) colors and/or materials may be uƟ lized on each 
building façade.
B. Each color or material shall consƟ tute at least ten (10) percent of the building façade.
C. A change in color or material shall be characterized by a minimum six (6)-inch oﬀ set from the 
adjacent building façade, or architectural element such as moldings or bandings shall be used to 
create the oﬀ set.
D. Veneers shall be returned at least two (2) feet from exterior corners. 
ŚĂŶŐĞƐŝŶĐŽůŽƌŽƌŵĂƚĞƌŝĂůŽīƐĞƚ
with architectural molding
ŝīĞƌĞŶƚĐŽůŽƌƐĂŶĚŵĂƚĞƌŝĂůƐ
ĂĐŚŵĂƚĞƌŝĂůĐŽŶƐƟƚƵƚĞƐ
at least 10% of building
Figure 20: A mid-rise building with diﬀ erent colors and materials on the building façade to avoid a monochromaƟ c color 
scheme and use of materials (SecƟ on 4.1.3).

--- page 41 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   1 7
B U I L D I N G  D E S I G N  A N D  A R C H I T E C T U R E
4.1.4 Massing Breaks – Generally
Structures of three (3) or more stories (measured from exisƟ ng grade) shall follow the rule of thirds 
in which a structure is divided into at least three primary masses. Possible ways to break a horizontal 
mass into three elements are illustrated below.
Figure 21: Possible ways to divide a horizontal mass into three elements (SecƟ on 4.1.4).

--- page 42 ---
1 8   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
4.1.5 Massing Breaks - Low-rise Buildings 
Low-rise buildings shall have a minimum eighteen (18) inch-deep wall plane break for every ﬁ Ō een 
(15) to thirty (30) feet of horizontal wall length.
18 inch-deep wall plane break
Figure 22: Low-rise buildings shall have a minimum eighteen (18) inch-deep wall plane break for every ﬁ Ō een (15) to thirty 
(30) feet of horizontal wall length (SecƟ on 4.1.

--- page 43 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   1 9
B U I L D I N G  D E S I G N  A N D  A R C H I T E C T U R E
4.1.6 Massing Breaks - Mid-rise Buildings 
A. Building ComposiƟ on. Mid-rise buildings ﬁ ve (5) stories or lower in height shall be divided into 
at least two (2) secƟ ons: either a base and a top or a body and top. Mid-rise buildings of six (6) or 
more stories in height shall have a base, body, and building top.
1. Base
a. The base shall be diﬀ erenƟ ated from the 
body and/or top through bands, string 
course, corbels, cornices, materials, 
and/or colors. If provided, the top of 
banding and/or string courses shall be 
located at the base of a window where a 
typical windowsill of the story above the 
base would be located, or at any point 
below that down to the line between the 
base and body stories.
b. For buildings six (6) stories or lower in 
height, the base, if provided, shall be no
 more than two (2) stories.
c. Seven (7) story mid-rise buildings shall 
provide a two (2) story base.
2. Body
a. The body shall be a minimum of three 
(3) ﬂ oors in height.
3. Top
a. If provided, the top shall not exceed 
one (1) story.
b. If provided, the top shall be 
diﬀ erenƟ ated from the base and/
or body along all building facades by 
either its building material, wall plane 
or stepback, color, projected roof 
overhangs (minimum eighteen [18] 
inches), stepped parapets, roof cornice, 
bands, or a combinaƟ on thereof.
Top
Body
Base
Figure 23: Mid-rise buildings of six (6) or more stories in height shall have a base, body, and building top (SecƟ on 4.1.6.A).

--- page 44 ---
2 0   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
B. Wall Planes. At least one (1) of the following wall plane treatments shall be incorporated into the 
building design as described below.
1. Horizontal Wall Plane Breaks. 
a. Along all building frontages, a wall plane oﬀ set shall occur at least every twenty (20) to forty 
(40) feet of horizontal building length, with the oﬀ set being a minimum of two (2) feet in 
depth and ﬁ ve (5) feet in length.
b. The horizontal wall plane oﬀ set/break shall follow the rule of thirds described in subsecƟ on 
4.1.4.
2. VerƟ cal Wall Plane Breaks. A change in the depth of the wall plane shall occur along the height 
of all building facades, unless stated otherwise. This shall be accomplished by incorporaƟ ng at 
least one (1) of the following: 
a. Roof cornice on the top ﬂ oor
b. A stepback or projecƟ on of a minimum of ﬁ ve (5) feet in depth between the base and the 
body of the building, meaning the body can be recessed or projected relaƟ ve to the base. 
Along the primary and secondary frontages, projecƟ ons from the base may occur on all 
stories above the base. No wall plane shall extend into the required setback or public right-
of-way.
c. A change in building material or color between the base and body characterized by a twelve 
(12) inch minimum oﬀ set from the surrounding building wall
d. A minimum ten (10)-foot stepback immediately above the building base or for the top ﬂ oor 
along all building facades facing a right-of-way

--- page 45 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   2 1
B U I L D I N G  D E S I G N  A N D  A R C H I T E C T U R E
sĞƌƟĐĂůǁĂůůƉůĂŶĞďƌĞĂŬ
ĞǀĞƌǇϮϬƚŽϰϬĨĞĞƚ
WƌŽũĞĐƟŽŶŽŶŽŶĞƐŝĚĞ͕ƐƚĞƉďĂĐŬ
ŽĨĂƚůĞĂƐƚϱĨĞĞƚŽŶŽƚŚĞƌƐŝĚĞ
ϭϮŝŶĐŚŵŝŶŝŵƵŵ
ĐŚĂŶŐĞŝŶƉůĂŶĞ
Figure 24: Wall plane treatments shall be incorporated into the design of mid-rise buildings (SecƟ on 4.1.6.B).
Roof cornice
Change in material or color
between base and body
Base with horizontal 
banding below body
Figure 25: VerƟ cal wall plane breaks can be accomplished by incorporaƟ ng a roof cornice or change in material or color 
between the base and body (SecƟ on 4.1.6.B).

--- page 46 ---
2 2   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
Figure 26: Diﬀ ering window sizes create disƟ nct building 
segments (SecƟ on 4.1.6.B).
3. Flat Plane VariaƟ on
a. For every twenty (20) to forty (40) feet of horizontal street frontage, the building façade 
design shall change in detailing to create disƟ nct building segments. This change in detailing 
shall include at least four (4) of the following: 
i. Change of materials and or color(s)
ii. Diﬀ ering window size (twenty [20] 
percent or greater diﬀ erence in height 
or width) 
iii. Change in windows treatments 
(including trim, type of window, sills, 
shuƩ ers, mullions)
iv.  Inclusion, or change, of cornices 
v. Inclusion, or change, of columns or 
pilasters 
vi. Inclusion, or exclusion, of balconies
Quoin
Inclusion of
cornices
Figure 27: Quoin and inclusion of cornices, create disƟ nct 
building segments (SecƟ on 4.1.6.B).
vii. Inclusion, or change, of horizontal 
banding (i.e., transiƟ on from simple 
band to frieze and cornice etc.) to 
break up the structure’s massing
viii. Wall plane oﬀ set (minimum 
eighteen [18] inches)
ix. Change in roof form or heights 
aligned with the building segment(s)
b. To prevent repeƟ Ɵ ve wall designs, no 
three (3) consecuƟ ve building wall 
segments shall be idenƟ cal.

--- page 47 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   2 3
B U I L D I N G  D E S I G N  A N D  A R C H I T E C T U R E
C. Building Corner Treatment. At the intersecƟ on of two (2) primary streets or a primary and 
secondary street, building corners shall incorporate at least one (1) of the following: 
1. A corner cut of at least ten (10) feet at the base of the building 
2. A tower element which extends between three (3) to six (6) feet in height from the building 
ridge
3. Special treatment of either diﬀ erent exterior materials, paint colors, recesses, or projecƟ ons 
relaƟ ve to the adjacent units, or combinaƟ on of these features
4. An architectural element such as a cupola, quoin treatment, rooŌ op sculpture, or spire based 
on the architectural design of the overall structure
&ůĂƚƉůĂŶĞǀĂƌŝĂƟŽŶŝŶĐůƵĚĞƐ
ĐŚĂŶŐĞƐŝŶĚĞƚĂŝůŝŶŐƚŽĐƌĞĂƚĞ
ĚŝƐƟŶĐƚďƵŝůĚŝŶŐƐĞŐŵĞŶƚƐ
ŽƌŶĞƌƚƌĞĂƚŵĞŶƚŝŶĐůƵĚĞƐ
ƚŽǁĞƌĞůĞŵĞŶƚƉƌŽũĞĐƟŶŐ
ĂďŽǀĞƚŚĞďƵŝůĚŝŶŐƌŝĚŐĞĂƚ
ƉƌŝŵĂƌǇƐƚƌĞĞƚŝŶƚĞƌƐĞĐƟŽŶ
ŚĂŶŐĞƐŝŶĐŽůŽƌ
ďĞƚǁĞĞŶďƵŝůĚŝŶŐ
ďĂƐĞ͕ďŽĚǇ͕ĂŶĚƚŽƉ
Figure 28: Examples of massing breaks in mid-rise buildings (SecƟ on 4.1.6.C).

--- page 48 ---
2 4   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
4.1.7 Massing Breaks - High-rise Buildings  
A. Building ComposiƟ on. High-rise buildings shall be divided into at least three (3) secƟ ons: base, 
body, and top.
1. Base
a. The base shall be two (2) to three (3) ﬂ oors in height.
2. Body 
a. The body shall be the ﬂ oors above the base of the building, up to the top as deﬁ ned below.
b. The body shall be a minimum of one and one-half (1.5) Ɵ mes the sum of the height of the 
base and the top stories. FracƟ onal numbers shall be rounded up to the nearest whole 
number.
3. Top
a. The top shall be no more than a maximum of two (2) stories.
b. The top shall be diﬀ erenƟ ated from the base and body by at least two (2) of the following: 
i. Building material
ii. Wall plane break (minimum of two [2]
 feet in depth and ﬁ ve [5] feet in length)
iii. Stepback (minimum ten [10] feet along
all building facades)
iv. Color
v. Eaves
vi. Projected roof overhang (minimum 
eighteen [18] inches)
vii. Stepped parapets
viii. Roof cornice or disƟ nguishing 
architectural element(s) such 
as overhangs, pergolas, etc. 
on the uppermost ﬂ oor

--- page 49 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   2 5
B U I L D I N G  D E S I G N  A N D  A R C H I T E C T U R E
Figure 29: High-rise building wall plane horizontal oﬀ set examples (SecƟ on 4.1.7)
ĂƐĞŝƐϮƚŽϯŇŽŽƌƐŚŝŐŚ
ŽĚǇŝƐŐƌĞĂƚĞƌƚŚĂŶϭ͘ϱǆĂƌĞĂ
ŽĨƚŽƉĂŶĚďĂƐĞĐŽŵďŝŶĞĚĂŶĚ
ƵƐĞƐĐŽůŽƌƚŽĚŝīĞƌĞŶƟĂƚĞ
ĨƌŽŵďĂƐĞĂŶĚƚŽƉ
dŽƉŝƐŶŽŵŽƌĞƚŚĂŶϮƐƚŽƌŝĞƐ
ĂŶĚŝŶĐůƵĚĞƐĐŚĂŶŐĞŽĨƉůĂŶĞ
ĂŶĚƉƌŽũĞĐƚĞĚƌŽŽĨŽǀĞƌŚĂŶŐ
Figure 30: High-rise building wall plane verƟ cal massing breaks (SecƟ on 4.1.7)

--- page 50 ---
2 6   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
B. Massing Breaks. At least one (1) of the following shall be incorporated to break up building 
massing: 
1. Horizontal Wall Plane Break. 
a. Along all building frontages, a wall plane oﬀ set shall occur at least every twenty-ﬁ ve (25) to 
ﬁ Ō y (50) feet of horizontal building length, with the oﬀ set being a minimum of two (2) feet in 
depth and ﬁ ve (5) feet in length.
b. The horizontal wall plane break/oﬀ set shall follow rule of thirds described in subsecƟ on 4.1.4.
2. VerƟ cal Wall Plane Breaks. ArƟ culaƟ on shall be provided on all building facades. This shall be 
accomplished by incorporaƟ ng at least three (3) of the following:
a. Roof cornice on the top ﬂ oor
b. A stepback or projecƟ on of a minimum of ﬁ ve (5) feet in depth between the base and the 
body of the building, meaning the body can be recessed or projected relaƟ ve to the base. 
Along the primary and secondary frontages, projecƟ ons from the base shall only occur on the 
body of the building.  No wall plane shall extend into the required setback or public right-of-
way.
c. Change in building material or color between the base and body characterized by a minimum 
twelve (12)-inch oﬀ set from the surrounding building wall
d. A stepback of a minimum ten (10)-feet immediately above the building base or for the top 
ﬂ oor

--- page 51 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   2 7
B U I L D I N G  D E S I G N  A N D  A R C H I T E C T U R E
3. Flat Plane VariaƟ on
a. Every twenty-ﬁ ve (25) to ﬁ Ō y (50) feet of horizontal street frontage, the building façade 
design shall change in detailing to create disƟ nct building segments. This change in detailing 
shall include at least four (4) of the following:
i. Change of materials and or color(s)
ii. Diﬀ ering window size twenty (20) 
percent or greater diﬀ erence in height 
or width 
iii. Change in windows treatments 
(including trim, type of window, 
mullions)
iv. Inclusion, or change, of cornices 
v. Inclusion, or change, of columns or 
pilasters 
vi. Inclusion, or change, of horizontal 
banding (i.e., transiƟ on from simple 
band to frieze and cornice, etc.) to 
break up the massing of the structure
vii. Wall plane oﬀ set (minimum 
eighteen [18] inches)
viii. Inclusion or exclusion of balconies
ix. Change in roof form or heights 
aligned with the building segment(s)
4. To prevent repeƟ Ɵ ve wall designs, no two (2) conƟ guous building wall segments shall be 
idenƟ cal. 
C. Building Corner Treatment. High-rise buildings shall incorporate the same corner treatment 
standards as mid-rise buildings.

--- page 52 ---
2 8   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
4.2 GROUND FLOOR REQUIREMENTS
4.2.1  Mixed-Use
A. At least seventy-ﬁ ve (75) percent of the ground ﬂ oor commercial wall area shall be glazed. 
B. The ﬁ nished ﬂ oor to ceiling height for ground ﬂ oor retail/commercial uses shall be at least twelve 
(12) feet.
Figure 31: Ground ﬂ oor commercial uses shall be at least 12 feet in height (SecƟ on 4.2.1.B).
Retail uses at least 
12 feet in height
ƚůĞĂƐƚϳϱйŽĨƚŚĞŐƌŽƵŶĚŇŽŽƌ
of mixed use buildings are glazed
4.2.2 Residential 
Entries to ground-ﬂ oor residenƟ al uses shall be located eighteen (18) to forty-two (42) inches above 
or below the grade of the adjacent public sidewalk.

--- page 53 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   2 9
B U I L D I N G  D E S I G N  A N D  A R C H I T E C T U R E
4.3 ADDITIONAL STANDARDS FOR MIXEDͳUSE BUILDINGS
4.3.1 Consistent Design
Mixed-use buildings shall carry the same theme on all elevaƟ ons using at least two (2) of the 
following approaches: 
A. Primary (non-accent) material(s) 
B. Primary (non-accent) color(s)
C. Window detail (sills, frame) and proporƟ ons
4.3.2   Differentiate Between Residential and Commercial Uses
In mixed-use buildings, disƟ nct awning or entry treatments shall be used for commercial/retail uses 
to disƟ nguish from the residenƟ al uses. Diﬀ erent treatments include, but are not limited to, doorway 
materials and recesses, signage, and paving in front of the entry.
D. Similar treatment of either top, body, and/or 
base
E. RepeaƟ ng recess depth
Figure 32: Mixed use buildings demonstrate consistent design on all elevaƟ ons through the use of primary materials or 
colors, similar window detail and proporƟ ons, and similar treatment of top (SecƟ on 4.3.1).
Same theme through
similar window detail
ĂŶĚƉƌŽƉŽƌƟŽŶƐĂŶĚ
similar treatment of top
Same theme through use of 
primary materials or colors
Same theme through
ƌĞƉĞĂƟŶŐƌĞĐĞƐƐĚĞƉƚŚ

--- page 54 ---
3 0   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
4.4 TRANSITIONS AND SCREENING
4.4.1 Neighborhood Transitions
For proposed development projects over thirty-two (32) feet in height, where the side or rear 
property line abuts a property in the R1 zoning district, the following standards shall apply:
A. Stepback – Low-rise Buildings. For low-rise buildings within ten (10) feet of the abuƫ  ng R1 
zoning district, the third story shall step back at least ﬁ ve (5) feet from exterior building wall of the 
second story below. The stepback shall apply only to building facades within ten (10) feet of the 
idenƟ ﬁ ed R1 district. AlternaƟ vely, the enƟ re building may be set back at least ten (10) feet from 
the abuƫ  ng property line.
Figure 33: Illustrated Low-rise Stepback (SecƟ on 4.4.1.A)

--- page 55 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   3 1
B U I L D I N G  D E S I G N  A N D  A R C H I T E C T U R E
B. Stepback – Mid-rise and High-rise Buildings.  
1. For mid-rise and high-rise buildings within twenty (20) feet of an abuƫ  ng R1 zoning district 
(measured from the proposed mid/high-rise building to the R1 property line), a minimum ten 
(10)-foot stepback shall be provided above the second story for mid-rise structures and twenty 
(20) feet for high-rise structures. The stepback shall apply only to building façades within twenty 
(20) feet of the idenƟ ﬁ ed R1 district. AlternaƟ vely, the enƟ re building may be set back at least 
twenty-ﬁ ve (25) feet from the property line for mid-rise structures and forty (40) feet for high-
rise structures.
2. For mid-rise and high-rise buildings located across a secondary or lower classiﬁ caƟ on street 
from an R1 zoning district, a minimum ten (10)-foot stepback shall be provided above the 
second story for at least seventy-ﬁ ve (75) percent of the street façade building wall.
3. Landscape Screening. Evergreen screening trees shall be:
4. Planted at a minimum interval of ﬁ Ō een (15) feet along interior property lines abuƫ  ng an R1 
zoning district
5. Consist of species that aƩ ains a twenty (20)-foot minimum height at maturity
6. A minimum ﬁ Ō een (15)-gallon size at Ɵ me of planƟ ng
Figure 34: Illustrated Mid and High-rise Stepback (SecƟ on 4.4.1.B)

--- page 56 ---
3 2   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
4.5 ROOF FORM 
4.5.1 Variation
All buildings up to four (4) stories in height shall provide variaƟ ons of roof height and/or form for 
thirty (30) percent minimum of the rooﬂ ine. 
4.5.2  Additional Requirements
A. A building shall have no more than two (2) variaƟ ons in roof form.
B. Roof pitch and eave treatment shall be consistent on a building.
C. Flat roofs shall provide a capped, two (2)-foot high minimum parapet.
D. Roof parapets shall include a coping on the top and a drip edge. 
Figure 35: Percentage of roof line (SecƟ on 4.5.1)
Figure 36: VariaƟ ons in roof form (SecƟ on 4.5.2)

--- page 57 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   3 3
B U I L D I N G  D E S I G N  A N D  A R C H I T E C T U R E
4.6 WINDOWS, DOORS, ENTRY DESIGN, AND SECURITY 
4.6.1 Window and Door Alignment 
A. VerƟ cal Alignment. For building facades that front a street or public right-of-way, windows, doors, 
bays, arches, and balconies shall align verƟ cally along a center line through these elements. Where 
the ground ﬂ oor or base of a building is a nonresidenƟ al use, verƟ cal alignment shall begin from 
the second ﬂ oor or wherever the residenƟ al use begins. 
B. Horizontal Alignment. Sets of windows, doors, bays, arches, or balconies may span more than the 
width of a single element above or below if the leŌ -most and right-most outside edges of the set 
of elements align with the width of the elements above or below and if the elements within a set 
are evenly spaced. The following excepƟ ons are allowed:
1. Juliet balconies may be centered evenly over the set of elements they span.
2. Bays or balconies may be wider than the element they are aligned with on the ﬂ oors above or 
below and if they project twelve (12) inches or more from the face of the building. 
C. Window and Door Size. The following shall apply to all windows and doors except for curtain wall 
windows.
1. Windows, bays, and doors shall be verƟ cally oriented, rectangular, and taller than they are wide.
2. For non-residenƟ al uses, verƟ cal window elements shall be maintained through proporƟ onality 
and divided lights.
3. Windows, bays, doors, arches, and balconies 
must be equal in size or smaller than the 
element they are aligned with on the ﬂ oor 
below.
4. Where wider glazed openings are desired use, 
ganged or grouped windows, subject to the 
following:
a. Grouped windows shall have a minimum 
of three (3) inches of building façade 
surface between them
b. Ganged windows shall have a mullion 
between them  
Figure 37: Grouped windows with a minimum of three inches 
of building façade surface between them (SecƟ on 4.6.1).

--- page 58 ---
3 4   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
4.6.2 Windows – Depth
Windows shall be recessed a minimum of four (4) inches from the exterior wall surface unless the 
architectural style dictates ﬂ ush (curtain wall) or protruding windows. Where a curtain wall is used, 
no recess or protrusion is required. WainscoƟ ng, sills, and/or reveals shall be incorporated into deep-
set windows.  
Window recessess and edges,
including moldings and reveals
of at least 4-inch depth
Figure 39: Window recesses and edges, including moldings 
and reveals of at least four (4)-inch depth (SecƟ on 4.6.2).
Moldings and reveals
of at least 4-inch depth
Figure 38: Window recesses and edges, including 
moldings and reveals of at least four (4)-inch depth 
(SecƟ on 4.6.2)
4.6.3 Windows – Reflectivity, Transparency, and Details
A. Window Reﬂ ecƟ vity. The use of reﬂ ecƟ ve glass is prohibited to reduce the occurrence of bird 
collisions. Low-reﬂ ecƟ vity dark Ɵ nted glass is prohibited except on residenƟ al units.
B. Window Transparency. Transparent glass guardrails and parapets shall be prohibited for mid-rise 
and high-rise buildings and/or in conjuncƟ on with green roofs or terraces to reduce the potenƟ al 
for bird collisions. 
C. Window Details. All windows shall include detailing using at least two (2) of the following 
approaches, depending on the proposed architectural style: 
1. Window trim
2. Projected lintel
3. Projected sill
4. Sashes
D. Lites. Lites shall be square or verƟ cally oriented rectangles.
E. Matching Lite Size and ProporƟ ons. The size and proporƟ on of Lites shall be consistent among 
windows in a group.

--- page 59 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   3 5
B U I L D I N G  D E S I G N  A N D  A R C H I T E C T U R E
4.6.4 Windows – Mixed-use Buildings
The street-level façade for retail/commercial ground ﬂ oors shall have windows with a minimum 
seventy (70) percent transparency between a height of three (3) and twelve (12) feet, measured 
above sidewalk grade.
4.6.5 Entries, Doors, and Stairways
A. Entry LocaƟ ons. All building entries shall adhere to the following standards:
1. Each façade adjacent to a street shall have at least one (1) pedestrian or main entry fronƟ ng the 
primary or secondary street frontage or, where public paseo exists, to that paseo.   
2. Low-rise Buildings
a. When fronƟ ng a public right-of-way, each ground-ﬂ oor residenƟ al unit shall provide a main 
entry oriented toward a primary or secondary street frontage. Where a unit fronts both a 
primary and secondary street, only one main entry shall be required.
b. When adjacent to an internal courtyard or common open space, each residenƟ al ground 
ﬂ oor unit shall provide direct access via an entry door to this area .
ŶƚƌŝĞƐƚŽŐƌŽƵŶĚͲŇŽŽƌƌĞƐŝĚĞŶƟĂů
ƵƐĞƐůŽĐĂƚĞĚϭϴƚŽϰϮŝŶĐŚĞƐĂďŽǀĞ
ŽƌďĞůŽǁƚŚĞĂĚũĂĐĞŶƚƉƵďůŝĐƐŝĚĞǁĂůŬ
DĂŝŶĞŶƚƌǇƚŽǁĂƌĚƐƐƚƌĞĞƚ
Figure 40: Main entries in low-rise buildings (SecƟ on 4.6.5.A)

--- page 60 ---
3 6   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
3. Mid-rise and High-rise Buildings. Mid and high-rise building entrances shall follow the 
residenƟ al entry requirements for low-rise buildings. In addiƟ on, mid and high-rise buildings 
may provide ground ﬂ oor entries for residenƟ al units that are oriented toward a street, internal 
courtyard, or a lobby entrance that serve several units.
4. Mixed-Use Buildings 
a. Pedestrian access to the residenƟ al uses shall be via a lobby or individual entries that are 
separate from commercial use access.
b. At least one (1) access to residenƟ al uses shall be located at a primary frontage or secondary 
frontage.
FENESTRATION 
ELEMENTS
ENTRY ELEMENTS
Transom window
Covered front porch
Sidelight window
Stoop
Awning with a 
minimum 3-foot 
projecƟ on (but not 
extending into any 
public right-of-way)
Recessed entry
Forecourt
B. ResidenƟ al Entry Design. Ground-ﬂ oor 
residenƟ al entries fronƟ ng a public right-
of-way or common space shall have at least 
one (1) fenestraƟ on element and one (1) 
entry element from the lists below. The entry 
element shall be at least three (3) feet in 
depth. 
Figure 41: Main entries toward an internal courtyard (SecƟ on 4.6.5)
Main entry towards 
internal courtyard
Table 1: Building opening elements

--- page 61 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   3 7
B U I L D I N G  D E S I G N  A N D  A R C H I T E C T U R E
C. Retail/Commercial or Other Non-residenƟ al Entry Design. Non-residenƟ al ground-ﬂ oor uses shall 
adhere to the following:
1. Each tenant space shall have an individual entry. 
2. Each entry shall have direct at-grade access from any adjacent sidewalk.
3. Each entry shall be inset or oﬀ set no more than twenty-four (24) inches from the adjacent 
building façade.
4. Each entry shall have at least two (2) of the following features: 
a. Awning or canopy (glass, wood, or metal only)
b. ContrasƟ ng color relaƟ ve to adjacent building wall 
c. Transom or sidelight windows 
d. Double doors 
e. An entrance enhanced with decoraƟ ve hardware (wrought iron, brass), decoraƟ ve framing 
(cornice), and/or artwork (mural, stained glass, Ɵ ling)
Figure 42: Individual entry for tenants in retail/
commercial or other non-residenƟ al entry design 
(SecƟ on 4.6.5.C)
Figure 43: DecoraƟ ve framing (SecƟ on 4.6.5.C)

--- page 62 ---
3 8   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
E. UƟ lity Room Entries. 
1. Exterior-facing uƟ lity rooms and emergency exit corridor doors shall not be located on the 
primary street frontage. 
2. When visible from a public right-of-way, uƟ lity room doors and emergency exits shall be the 
same materials, colors, and style as the main entry doors. 
3. These standards shall not apply if they conﬂ ict with the rules and regulaƟ ons of PG&E, another 
private or public uƟ lity conveyor, or the Fire or Building Code.
F. Loading Dock Doors. 
1. Loading dock doors shall fully screen the interior loading dock area.
2. Doors shall use materials that limit visibility, such as translucent glass or decoraƟ ve metal, and 
included in the material paleƩ e speciﬁ ed for the building.
G. Exterior Stairways. Exterior stairways/stairwells shall face interior spaces such as plazas, gathering 
areas, and parking areas. This standard shall not apply if it conﬂ icts with the Fire Code or Building 
Code. 
4.6.6 Design for Security 
All exterior walls fronƟ ng shared areas, interior courts, parking areas, open space, and walkways shall 
feature at least one (1) viewpoint through a window, door, balcony, or paƟ o at least every thirty (30) 
feet on each building story.
 
Figure 44: Minimum six (6) inch recess (SecƟ on 4.6.5.D)
D. Garage Doors. 
1. For projects with ten (10) or more 
residenƟ al units, individual garage doors 
shall not face a public street but shall be 
oriented towards an alley or private street/
driveway internal to the project. 
2. All individual garage doors shall be 
recessed a minimum of six (6) inches from 
the surrounding building wall.

--- page 63 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   3 9
B U I L D I N G  D E S I G N  A N D  A R C H I T E C T U R E
4.7 MATERIALS AND COLORS 
4.7.1 General Standards Applicable to All Development
A. Colors. Neon colors, as deﬁ ned in SecƟ on 8, shall be prohibited. Colors of the same hue shall be 
diﬀ erenƟ ated by at least three shades.
B. Allowable Materials. Materials used throughout on exterior walls, as trim, for windows and doors, 
and as rooﬁ ng material shall be allowed according to the following Materials Table.
C. Quality. Durable architectural materials and ﬁ nishes with a minimum life expectancy of ﬁ Ō y (50) 
years and rooﬁ ng with a minimum life expectancy of thirty (30) years shall be used on the exterior 
of the buildings.
Figure 45: Colors of the same hue shall be diﬀ erenƟ ated by at least three shades (SecƟ on 4.7.1.A).

--- page 64 ---
4 0   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
MATERIAL
NOTES
Exterior Walls, Including Trim and Accent
Brick
Including brick veneer 
Concrete
Stone
Stucco
True stucco only (Lime or Portland Cement); excluding 
syntheƟ c stucco and Exterior InsulaƟ on Finishing System 
(EIFS) 
Plaster
Veriﬁ ed for exterior use only
Glass
Tile
Rammed Earth
Low-rise only 
Wood Siding
Shingle, Clapboard, Panel
Fiber Cement Board
Clapboard, Panel
Metal
Excluding corrugated metal
Wood
Plywood allowed only as accent; not a main material
Building Base
Brick
Concrete
Stone
Metal 
Ceramic Tile
Metal
Excluding aluminum and corrugated metal
Wood
Plywood allowed only as accent; not a main material 
Fiberglass composite
Glass
Table 2A: Materials Table - Window Frames and Rooﬁ ng Materials (SecƟ on 4.7.1.B)

--- page 65 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   4 1
B U I L D I N G  D E S I G N  A N D  A R C H I T E C T U R E
4.8 ADDITIONS TO EXISTING STRUCTURES
AddiƟ ons to exisƟ ng structures shall incorporate and match all the following features if they are 
present in the exisƟ ng building(s):
A. Roof form
B. Window and door type, materials, proporƟ ons, and details such as recesses, mullion/munƟ n 
width, and paƩ ern etc.
C. Colors and materials
D. ArƟ culaƟ on paƩ erns
E. Cornices, banding, string courses, and corbels
F. Balconies
MATERIAL
NOTES
Window Frames
Wood 
Excluding plywood
Metal
Excluding corrugated metal
Fiberglass
Composite
Vinyl
Rooﬁ ng Materials
Composite, asphalt, and ﬁ berglass 
shingle
Clay and concrete Ɵ le
Slate
Green roofs
Solar shingles
Colored metal/natural copper
Table 2B: Materials Table - Window Frames and Rooﬁ ng Materials (SecƟ on 4.7.1.B)

--- page 66 ---
4 2   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e oSTATION PARK GREEN, CITY OF SAN MATEO

--- page 67 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   4 3
L A N D S C A P I N G ,  O P E N  S P A C E ,  A N D  E X T E R I O R  L I G H T I N G 
LANDSCAPING, OPEN 
SPACE, AND EXTERIOR 
LIGHTING 
5.1 LANDSCAPING AND OPEN SPACE 
5.1.1 General Standards Applicable to All Development 
A. Landscaping. Landscaped areas and shared open spaces shall incorporate at least three (3) of the 
following: 
1. Use of hardscape materials for up to ﬁ Ō y (50) percent of surfaces, with hardscape deﬁ ned to 
include paving materials, gravel, and stone or Ɵ le work
2. Interior building entrance with direct access to open space(s)
3. Building paseo with direct access to open space(s)
4. Fixed seaƟ ng elements with shade structures which face open space(s) 
5. In a mixed-use project, commercial paƟ o and/or pedestrian-oriented windows and/or service 
bars/counters facing the open space. Any queuing areas provided shall be designed to avoid 
pedestrian travel ways and public rights-of-way. 
5
&ŝǆĞĚƐĞĂƟŶŐ
ŽŵŵĞƌĐŝĂůƉĂƟŽƐĂŶĚ
ƉĞĚĞƐƚƌŝĂŶͲŽƌŝĞŶƚĞĚǁŝŶĚŽǁƐ
ĨĂĐŝŶŐƚŚĞŽƉĞŶƐƉĂĐĞ
Hardscape materials for up to
ϱϬйŽĨůĂŶĚƐĐĂƉĞĚƐƵƌĨĂĐĞƐ
Figure 45: Elements that may be incorporated in landscaped areas and shared open spaces (SecƟ on 5.1.1.A)

--- page 68 ---
4 4   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
B. Private Open Space for Individual Units
1. The fronts and sides of balconies shall 
consist of obscured glass, slats, or parƟ ally 
transparent graƟ ng or railing that is at 
least ﬁ Ō y (50) percent open. 
2. Enclosed private ground-ﬂ oor open spaces 
fronƟ ng a public street and/or sidewalk 
shall have an enclosure between three 
(3) and four (4) feet in height. Enclosure 
materials shall be limited to the following: 
a. Walls of a color and material(s) 
that match those used for the main 
building(s)
b. Wrought iron fencing
c. Glass 
d. Wood
WƌŝǀĂƚĞŐƌŽƵŶĚͲŇŽŽƌŽƉĞŶƐƉĂĐĞƐ
ĨƌŽŶƟŶŐĂƉƵďůŝĐƐƚƌĞĞƚŽƌƐŝĚĞǁĂůŬ
ǁŝƚŚĂϯŽƌϰͲĨŽŽƚŚŝŐŚĞŶĐůŽƐƵƌĞ
Figure 46: Enclosed private ground-ﬂ oor open spaces fronƟ ng a 
public street and sidewalk (SecƟ on 5.1.1.B).
C. Common Open Space.
1. Common open space areas and ameniƟ es shall be located to be easily accessible to all residents 
via common walkways.
2. Green roofs and decks shall be physically and legally accessible to all residents. 
3. Dog run areas and community gardens in developments exceeding twenty-ﬁ ve (25) units can 
count towards the open space requirement.
D. Tree Wells. New tree wells shall be located in line with adjacent, exisƟ ng tree wells when those 
locaƟ ons are compliant with the City’s pedestrian and tree master plans.

--- page 69 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   4 5
L A N D S C A P I N G ,  O P E N  S P A C E ,  A N D  E X T E R I O R  L I G H T I N G 
Figure 48: Common open space areas and ameniƟ es shall be located to be easily accessible to all residents ia 
common walkways (SecƟ on 5.1.1.C).
Building paseo with direct
access to open space(s)
Common open space areas and
ĂŵĞŶŝƟĞƐĂƌĞĞĂƐŝůǇĂĐĐĞƐƐŝďůĞƚŽ
ĂůůƌĞƐŝĚĞŶƚƐǀŝĂĐŽŵŵŽŶǁĂůŬǁĂǇƐ
/ŶƚĞƌŝŽƌďƵŝůĚŝŶŐĞŶƚƌĂŶĐĞ
with direct access to open space
Figure 47: The fronts and sides of balconies shall consist of obscured glass, slats, or parƟ ally transparent graƟ ng or railing that is at 
least ﬁ Ō y (50) percent open (SecƟ on 5.1.1.B).
Private balcony fronts and sides
ĂƌĞĂƚůĞĂƐƚĮŌǇ;ϱϬͿƉĞƌĐĞŶƚŽƉĞŶ͘

--- page 70 ---
4 6   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
5.1.2 Shadow Requirements – Mid-rise and High-rise Buildings
FiŌ y (50) percent of required open space shall be unshaded between the hours of 12:00 pm to 2:00 
pm at the spring and fall equinox. This standard shall not apply where the open space is already 
shaded by an exisƟ ng building and no other opportuniƟ es for access to sunlight exist on the site. 
Figure 49: Shadow requirements (SecƟ on 5.1.2)
&ŝŌǇƉĞƌĐĞŶƚŽĨƌĞƋƵŝƌĞĚŽƉĞŶƐƉĂĐĞƐ
ĂƌĞƵŶƐŚĂĚĞĚďĞƚǁĞĞŶϭϮ͗ϬϬƉŵƚŽ
Ϯ͗ϬϬƉŵĂƚƚŚĞƐƉƌŝŶŐĂŶĚĨĂůůĞƋƵŝŶŽǆ͘

--- page 71 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   4 7
L A N D S C A P I N G ,  O P E N  S P A C E ,  A N D  E X T E R I O R  L I G H T I N G 
5.2 EXTERIOR LIGHTING
5.2.1 General Standards Applicable to All Development – Exterior Lighting for 
Private Property
A. All exterior lighƟ ng ﬁ xtures shall include top covers to direct light downward unless such lighƟ ng 
is provided as landscape or public art/building wall uplighƟ ng that does not cause glare. Shielding 
shall match the style of the lighƟ ng ﬁ xtures.
B. Security lighƟ ng shall be provided consistent with the requirements of San Mateo Municipal Code 
SecƟ on 23.54.060 (Exterior Security LighƟ ng).
C. No porƟ on of a lighƟ ng ﬁ xture shall be mounted above the roof or parapet of the building.
Figure 49: Shadow requirements (SecƟ on 5.1.2)
ǆƚĞƌŝŽƌůŝŐŚƟŶŐƐŚĂůů
ďĞĚŽǁŶǁĂƌĚĚŝƌĞĐƚĞĚ
ƚŽƌĞĚƵĐĞĞǀĞŶŝŶŐ
ůŝŐŚƚƉŽůůƵƟŽŶ
Lorem ipsum

--- page 72 ---
4 8   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
CITY OF SAN MATEO

--- page 73 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   4 9
O T H E R  S I T E  F E A T U R E S 
6.1 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND ENCLOSURES ͵ GENERAL STANDARDS 
APPLICABLE TO ALL DEVELOPMENT 
6.1.1 Accessory Structures.
Accessory structures that require a building permit shall be designed with the same ﬁ nishes, 
materials, and details as the primary building(s) and shall include the same roof pitch(es). 
6.1.2 Solid Waste Enclosures. 
Solid waste enclosure shall comply with all the following: 
A. Solid waste, recyclable materials, and green waste disposal areas shall be located wholly within a 
building or enclosure. 
B. Exterior waste collecƟ on and disposal areas shall not be located within a required front yard, street 
side yard, parking space, landscaped area, or required open space areas.
C. Exterior waste collecƟ on and disposal areas shall not be located within twenty (20) feet of an 
adjacent lot that is developed with a residenƟ al use unless such areas are fully enclosed within a 
building. 
D. Solid waste enclosures shall be fully enclosed with masonry walls on three (3) sides, one (1) solid 
decoraƟ ve metal gate for access, and a roof to prevent precipitaƟ on from entering the enclosure.
E. Solid waste enclosures shall not be visible from public streets or shall be screened with 
landscaping. Visibility from alley locaƟ ons is acceptable.
F. Signage to inform what materials are appropriate and prohibited for each receptacle/area shall be 
posted inside each solid waste enclosure.
G. Driveways or aisles shall provide unobstructed access for collecƟ on vehicles and personnel with 
at least the minimum clearance required by the collecƟ on methods and vehicles uƟ lized by the 
designated collector.
6.1.3 Transit Stops. 
Proposed or required transit stops located on public or private property shall include all the following: 
shelter, bench, lighƟ ng, and trash receptacles.
6
OTHER SITE FEATURES

--- page 74 ---
5 0   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
6.2 UTILITIES AND MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT ͵ GENERAL STANDARDS 
APPLICABLE TO ALL DEVELOPMENT
Figure 50: When transformers are infeasible to place 
underground, they shall be screened from public view with 
landscaping or walls (SecƟ on 6.2.1).
6.2.2 Solar Equipment. 
A. All rooŌ op solar equipment and ﬁ xtures 
other than solar collecƟ on panels shall be 
installed in the aƫ  c or ﬂ ush mounted.   
B. Any ground-mounted solar equipment:
1. Shall comply with the setback 
requirements of the zone in which it is 
located
2. Shall not be visible from a public right-of-
way
3. Shall not be located within any required 
open space area
4. Shall not obstruct vehicular or pedestrian 
travel ways
6.2.1 Transformers. 
A. Transformers shall be located within a 
structure or placed underground.
B. If (a) above is not feasible, an above-ground 
transformer shall be permiƩ ed but shall be 
located outside of any required setbacks and 
open space areas and shall be screened from 
public view with landscaping and fencing/
walls. 
6.2.3 Allowable Locations. 
Ground-mounted uƟ liƟ es and mechanical equipment that directly serve the development shall be 
located within the private property outside any required open space area or any required landscape 
area, with the excepƟ on of irrigaƟ on control valves.
Figure 51: Ground-mounted solar equipment is located outside 
of setback requirements or required open space areas and does 
not obstruct travel (SecƟ on 6.2.2).

--- page 75 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   5 1
O T H E R  S I T E  F E A T U R E S 
6.3 REQUIRED SCREENING 
All above-ground onsite ancillary features shall be screened using at least one (1) of the following 
methods: 
A. Evergreen landscape materials or a landscaped berm of the same height as the ancillary feature. 
B. Low fencing or a wall consisƟ ng of the same color or materials as the buildings they serve. 
C. Roof-mounted mechanical equipment shall be screened so it is not visible from the adjacent public 
right-of-way using either rooŌ op parapet walls or rooŌ op enclosures.
D. Transparent glass may not be used as a screening material.
Roof-mounted mechanical equipment
screened from public right-of-way
Figure 52: Roof mounted mechanical equipment shall be screened so it is not visible from the adjacent public right of way 
 (SecƟ on 6.3.C).
6.4 LIGHTWELLS
Lightwells shall not be located along the primary front façade of a structure. All light wells shall be 
screened from public view through landscaping, fencing, a wall, or a combinaƟ on thereof.

--- page 76 ---
5 2   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
*Some properƟ es lie within the boundaries of 
more than one speciﬁ c plan. The hatched areas 
indicate where more than one speciﬁ c plan 
applies. This graphic is informaƟ onal only. For 
precise speciﬁ c plan boundaries, consult the 
adopted plan.
Source: 
County of San Mateo InformaƟ on Services 
Department. City of San Mateo 2023.
0
1/2
1/4
1
1-1/2
Miles
KEY
Downtown Plan Area*
El Camino Real Master Plan Area*
Hillsdale StaƟ on Area
Mariner’s Island Speciﬁ c Plan Area
Mid and South El Camino Real 
San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit 
Oriented Development Plan Area*
Vision of the Gateway* 
City of San Mateo Boundary
Neighborhood JurisdicƟ on
Fig. 7.1 San Mateo Speciﬁ c Plan Sites

--- page 77 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   5 3
O T H E R  S I T E  F E A T U R E S 
7
SPECIFIC PLAN AREA 
STANDARDS
This SecƟ on establishes addiƟ onal ObjecƟ ve Design Standards for which a speciﬁ c plan or area plan 
has been adopted as idenƟ ﬁ ed in Figure 7-1 below. These standards are in addiƟ on to the standards 
outlined in the previous secƟ ons. Where there is an internal conﬂ ict between the general objecƟ ve 
standards and speciﬁ c plan area objecƟ ve standards, the laƩ er shall apply. Where a project is located 
within the sphere of mulƟ ple speciﬁ c plan areas all speciﬁ c plan standards shall be followed.

--- page 78 ---
5 4   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
7.1 DOWNTOWN PLAN AREA 
7.1.1 Site Planning – Building Siting, Orientation, and Frontage Features
A. Massing and ArƟ culaƟ on. At least two (2) of the following shall be incorporated into a building’s 
design:
1. The ground ﬂ oor shall be at least seventy-ﬁ ve (75) percent transparent (including windows and 
doors)
2. On the ground ﬂ oor, use of large areas (minimum dimension of six [6] feet) shall be of clear 
glass
3. On upper ﬂ oors, align windows such that only one (1) bank of windows horizontally deﬁ nes 
each ﬂ oor
B. Façade Design. Building façade design shall include a change in the street-fronƟ ng façade through 
the use of verƟ cal recesses or projecƟ ons, building height, and/or colors and materials at intervals 
of twenty-ﬁ ve (25) to ﬁ Ō y (50)-feet.
C. TransiƟ ons and Screening Elements. Proposed buildings taller than those immediately adjacent 
shall provide at least two (2) of the following:
1. Building rooﬂ ine that steps down to adjacent building’s height
2. The same horizontal lines from adjacent buildings carried to align roof cornices, cornices above 
retail windows, and sign bands
3. VerƟ cally shaped window openings at the same height as the neighboring buildings’ windows 
above the ground ﬂ oor
4. Ground-ﬂ oor awnings, canopies, and/or transom windows at the same height as the 
neighboring buildings over large retail display windows
5. Building base and/or kick plates to match adjacent buildings on either side

--- page 79 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   5 5
S P E C I F I C  P L A N  A R E A  S T A N D A R D S
7.1.2 Building Design and Architecture  
Buildings shall implement a Spanish Colonial Revival architectural style, as outlined and illustrated 
below:
A. Required Architectural Elements. To implement the architectural style, a structure shall include all 
of the following elements: 
1. Building facing of light-colored stucco within a light reﬂ ectance value (LRV) range between 36 
and 80; use of weathered brick (no brick veneer), Ɵ le, stone, stone casƟ ng, or wood as accent 
materials is acceptable
2. Low-pitched (below and including a 3:12 pitch) gabled or hipped roofs, sloped parapets, or ﬂ at 
surface with an eave overhang of not more than six (6) inches 
3. Red Ɵ le roofs and Ɵ les parapets; simulated materials are acceptable
Figure 53: Building facing of light-colored stucco shall be 
used to achieve a Spanish Colonial Revival architectural 
style (SecƟ on 7.1.2).
Figure 54: Tile and stone are acceptable materials to use 
to achieve a Spanish Colonial Revival architectural style 
(SecƟ on 7.1.2).

--- page 80 ---
5 6   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
Figure 55: Rounded tower (SecƟ on 7.1.2)
Figure 56: Elaborate chimney tops (SecƟ on 7.1.2)
B. AddiƟ onal Architectural Elements. Structures shall also include a minimum of seven (7) of the 
following elements: 
1. MulƟ -level roofs
2. Asymmetrical massing
3. Arches that are pointed, rounded, or with a 
slight peak (Islamic arches); triple arched; 
or parabolic arches
4. Ornamental details derived from Spanish, 
ByzanƟ ne, Gothic, Italian, and Spanish 
historic architectural sources
5. Spiral columns 
6. MulƟ -pane windows (to follow the general 
standards listed in SecƟ on 4.6)
7. Window grilles of wood, aluminum clad 
wood, or wrought iron. (Where used 
throughout the project, metal, iron and/or 
wrought iron shall be painted black or 
bronze)
8. Elaborate chimney tops consistent with 
the style, as illustrated below
9. Round or square towers
10. DecoraƟ ve Ɵ les consistent with the 
architectural style, as illustrated below
11. Vernacular Spanish Colonial Revival 
decoraƟ ve ironwork
12. Ornamental treatments around 
doorways, stairs, surrounds, and/or 
windows consistent with the architectural 
style, as illustrated below
13. Deep recessed windows and doors at a 
minimum of twelve (12) inches

--- page 81 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   5 7
S P E C I F I C  P L A N  A R E A  S T A N D A R D S
C. Building Façade Materials and Colors. Structures uƟ lizing a Spanish Colonial Revival architectural 
design as outlined above shall be exempt from the general building façade materials and color 
standards outlined in SecƟ on 4.1.
D. Windows, Doors, and Entries. Building and storefront entries shall include at least one (1) of the 
following design features:
1. Canopy or awning in conformance with any permiƫ  ng or limitaƟ ons of public right-of-way 
encroachment requirements
2. Architectural detailing such as a transom window, storefront window, kick plate, exterior 
columns, or mid-cornice
3. Landscaping porƟ ons of the width of the storefront under display windows, or ﬂ anking a 
building entry
E. Awning Materials and Colors. Awnings, if provided, shall have the following characterisƟ cs: 
1. A minimum of ﬁ ve (5) percent larger than the width of the storefront openings to emphasize 
building proporƟ ons
2. Placed above windows and doors to maintain views of important architectural details
3. Aligned with adjacent awnings (plus or minus one (1) foot in height) unless ground ﬂ oor 
elevaƟ on is more than that plus or minus one (1) foot from other adjacent buildings 
4. Using the same hues as the overall building color scheme
5. In addiƟ on to materials listed under general standards, may be fabricated of canvas
Figure 57: Spiral Columns (SecƟ on 7.1.2)
Figure 58: Asymmetrical Massing (SecƟ on 7.1.2)

--- page 82 ---
5 8   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
F. Architectural Features. Buildings shall place the following features at the same height as adjacent 
buildings: 
1. Cornices
2. Cornice above the second-ﬂ oor awnings
3. Windowsills
7.1.3 Landscaping, Open Space, and Exterior Lighting
Publicly accessible outdoor areas shall not be concealed from public frontages by fence/gates, insets, 
recesses, or setbacks.

--- page 83 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   5 9
S P E C I F I C  P L A N  A R E A  S T A N D A R D S
7.2 EL CAMINO REAL MASTER PLAN AREA 
7.2.1 Site Planning – Building Siting, Orientation, and Frontage Features 
A. Setbacks. 
1. All buildings shall be set back a minimum of ten (10) feet along El Camino Real to saƟ sfy and 
provide for the “eﬀ ecƟ ve sidewalk” standard, as deﬁ ned in SecƟ on 8.
2. Buildings taller than two (2) stories shall be set back ten (10) feet from the property line along El 
Camino Real.
B. Build-to-Lines. 
1. A minimum of ﬁ Ō y (50) percent of the total property line frontage along El Camino Real shall 
be occupied by buildings built to the required setback line. Building(s) may be set back up to 
a maximum of twenty (20) feet behind the build-to line to provide a public amenity such as a 
wider sidewalk, plaza, outdoor seaƟ ng, outdoor dining, or landscape area or any combinaƟ on 
thereof.
2. For corner parcels, the building shall be built to the required street side setback for a minimum 
of ﬁ Ō y (50) percent of the side street property frontage.
C. Frontage Features. For each twenty-ﬁ ve (25) feet of building frontage along El Camino Real, at 
least one (1) of the following ground ﬂ oor elements shall be included (can be mulƟ ple instances of 
one [1] element): 
1. Arcades
2. Awnings (no wider than a structural bay)
3. Trellises 
4. ResidenƟ al entry porch
7.2.2 Parking, Access, and Driveways
A. Curb Cuts. Curb cuts along El Camino Real shall be prohibited if alley or secondary frontage is 
available. A maximum of one (1) curb cut along El Camino per development is permiƩ ed. 
B. Pedestrian Access. Access between surface parking areas and the public sidewalk shall be provided 
at forty (40)-foot minimum intervals along the parking frontage.

--- page 84 ---
6 0   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
A. Massing and ArƟ culaƟ on 
1. Stepbacks. A minimum four (4)-foot 
stepback along all building facades shall be 
provided above the second story.
2. Blank Walls. Side walls visible from El 
Camino Real shall not be blank walls. 
The porƟ on of side walls visible from the 
public right-of-way shall conƟ nue the front 
façade architectural treatments with the 
same colors, materials, and arƟ culaƟ on, 
including a matching width and depth 
of structural bays used on the building 
facade.
Figure 59: A minimum four (4)-foot stepback shall be 
provided above the second story (SecƟ on 7.2.3).
3. Structural Bays. The building façade shall be arƟ culated (either recessed or projected) at every 
structural bay. The minimum depth of arƟ culaƟ on along the façade shall be two (2) feet.
B. Windows, Doors, and Entry Design. 
1. Recesses and Reveals. Windows shall have a recess or reveal of at least four (4) inches. Doors 
and eaves shall have a recess or reveal of at least eighteen (18) inches.
2. Entry Design. Storefront entries shall be directly accessible from El Camino Real.
C. Materials and Colors. 
1. For the porƟ on of the façade above the ground ﬂ oor, all the following are prohibited:
a. Glass curtain walls exceeding the width of the structural bays
b. Horizontal ribbon windows
2. Material changes shall occur at interior corners or major reveals.
7.2.3 Building Design and Architecture

--- page 85 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   6 1
S P E C I F I C  P L A N  A R E A  S T A N D A R D S
7.2.4 Landscaping, Open Space, and Exterior Lighting
A. Landscaping.
1. Areas between structures and the eﬀ ecƟ ve sidewalk shall be landscaped. Areas within three (3) 
feet of building entries and display windows shall be designed as a hardscape area for gathering 
and outdoor commercial acƟ vity with at least one (1) of the following: 
a. Accent planters 
b. Raised planter beds 
c. Benches 
d. Other types of pedestrian ameniƟ es such as fountains, seaƟ ng areas, and public art
2. For buildings over two (2) stories, the ten (10)-foot setback area beyond the space required to 
create a ten (10)-foot eﬀ ecƟ ve sidewalk width shall be landscaped consistent with the El Camino 
Real Streetscape Plan.
Areas between structures
ĂŶĚƚŚĞĞīĞĐƟǀĞƐŝĚĞǁĂůŬ
ƐŚĂůůďĞůĂŶĚƐĐĂƉĞĚ͘
Figure 60: Areas between structures and the eﬀ ecƟ ve sidewalk shall be landscaped (SecƟ on 4.2.4).

--- page 86 ---
6 2   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
7.3 HILLSDALE STATION AREA 
7.3.1 Site Planning – Building Siting, Orientation, and Frontage Features
A. Setbacks – Transit Center Area
1. Buildings shall be set back from the back of curb along El Camino Real to create at least twenty 
(20) feet of combined eﬀ ecƟ ve sidewalk.
2. Buildings adjacent to the train staƟ on plaƞ orm shall include a ten (10)-foot rear yard setback, 
which shall be designed to provide at least one (1) of the following:
a. Ramp compliant with ADA standards
b. Stairs with ﬂ at incline areas that allow bicycles to be pushed up/down, compliant with ADA 
standards
B. Setbacks - Parcels Adjacent to Laurel Creek
1. Buildings shall be set back from Laurel Creek consistent with the City’s General Plan and SMMC 
SecƟ on 7.39.130.
2. The required setback area from Laurel Creek shall be publicly accessible, include at least 
ﬁ Ō y (50) percent landscaped open space, and include a pedestrian trail constructed to City 
standards.
3. Key IntersecƟ ons. Buildings located on parcels that surround the intersecƟ ons of 28th and 
31st Avenues and Hillsdale Boulevard at El Camino Real shall provide a minimum ten (10)-foot 
setback at building corners on the ground ﬂ oor facing intersecƟ ons for a minimum of ﬁ Ō een 
(15) feet along the intersecƟ ng frontages, or shall incorporate at least two (2) of the following 
elements:
a. Tower 
b. Corner entry plazas 
c. Fountains or water features
d. Public art installaƟ ons
C. Pedestrian Access and AccommodaƟ ons - Pedestrian/Mid-block Paseos for Mixed-Use and 
ResidenƟ al
For projects located along the east side of El Camino Real, a minimum twenty (20)-foot-wide north/
west pedestrian/mid-block paseo shall be provided on parcels three hundred (300) feet deep or 
greater.

--- page 87 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   6 3
S P E C I F I C  P L A N  A R E A  S T A N D A R D S
7.3.2 Parking, Access, and Driveways
A. Parking
1. Surface Parking. Surface parking shall adhere to the following:
a. Shall not be located within twenty-ﬁ ve (25) feet of the El Camino Real-facing property line
b. Shall not occupy more than twenty-ﬁ ve (25) percent of a property for parcels, exisƟ ng or 
combined, with more than two hundred (200) feet of El Camino Real frontage 
c. ExisƟ ng surface parking may be retained when improvements do not exceed ﬁ Ō y (50) 
percent of the replacement value of the exisƟ ng development, as determined by the City 
Building Oﬃ  cial
2. Vehicle parking shall be prohibited in front setback areas and along primary and secondary 
street frontages.
a. If a parking garage is an individual building part of a project, retail, or other acƟ ve uses, such 
use shall occupy the ground-ﬂ oor space of that parking garage along at least ninety (90) 
percent of the frontage of El Camino Real, at a minimum depth of forty (40) feet.
b. If structured parking is within a mixed-use building, a maximum of ﬁ Ō y (50) percent of the 
ground ﬂ oor may be dedicated to parking.
B. Screening. Surface parking lots shall be screened from view from public streets as following:
1. Minimum height of three (3) feet; maximum height of six (6) feet
2. ConsisƟ ng of wood, metal, or landscape wall
3. Shall be perforated (i.e., transparent) to a maximum of thirty (30) percent
7.3.3 Building Design and Architecture – Stepback
A minimum six (6)-foot stepback shall be provided above the third ﬂ oor along all building facades for 
buildings over three (3) stories in height. Balconies are permiƩ ed within the stepback area above the 
third ﬂ oor.
7.3.4 Windows
All residenƟ al units and residenƟ al units of mixed-use development shall have at least one (1) 
window that faces the creek.

--- page 88 ---
6 4   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
7.3.5 Windows, Doors, and Entry Design
A. Pedestrian Entries. Buildings shall have at least one (1) pedestrian entrance facing El Camino Real, 
the Transit Center, or the Caltrain right-of-way.
B. Key IntersecƟ on Entries. Buildings located on parcels that surround the intersecƟ ons of 28th 
and 31st Avenues and Hillsdale Boulevard at El Camino Real shall have a primary building entry 
oriented towards the corner that is visible from the intersecƟ on.
7.3.6 Landscaping, Open Space, Exterior Lighting, and Fencing
A. Landscaping
Figure 62: Plazas with hardscape, benches, and pedestrian 
ameniƟ es (SecƟ on 7.3.6.B)
1. Retaining walls below the train tracks 
shall be treated with at least two (2) 
of the following design elements for at 
least seventy-ﬁ ve (75) percent of the wall 
surface:
a. Mural (no commercial messages 
allowed)
b. Architectural features of building 
exterior wall downward directed 
lighƟ ng 
c. Landscaping
B. At least ﬁ Ō y (50) percent of the open space 
shall consist of a plaza with a combinaƟ on 
of hardscape, benches, tables, pedestrian 
ameniƟ es, and lighƟ ng. 
C. Frontage Features - Parcels Adjacent to Laurel 
Creek – Fencing.
1. Solid and chain link fencing are prohibited 
along the creek. ExisƟ ng chain link fences 
shall be removed in associaƟ on with any 
new development or redevelopment.
2. Where fencing is provided, it shall be 
transparent and be a maximum of four (4) 
feet in height.
Figure 61: Public plaza with benchez and hardscape 
(SecƟ on 7.3.6.B)

--- page 89 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   6 5
S P E C I F I C  P L A N  A R E A  S T A N D A R D S
7.3.7 Development Along Palm Place
A. Mixed-use developments shall have at least two (2) of the following: 
1. Building entrances facing Palm Place
2. Awnings at least (ten) 10 feet in length
3. Outdoor seaƟ ng areas of at least one hundred (100) square feet in area provided with benches 
and/or chairs and tables
B. Ground-ﬂ oor retail and restaurant uses facing pedestrian paseos shall include at least two (2) of 
the following elements:
1. Entrances
2. Awnings
3. Outdoor seaƟ ng areas of at least one hundred (100) square feet in area provided with benches 
and/or chairs and tables
C. East -West Avenues. For buildings with primary frontage along east-west avenues, the following 
shall apply:
1. The area within ﬁ ve (5) feet of an entrance or display window shall be at least ﬁ Ō y (50) percent 
hardscape.
2. A building edge along the primary and secondary frontage shall be set back to create at least 
ﬁ Ō y (50) square feet of outdoor space, in addiƟ on to any setback required for a ten (10)-foot 
eﬀ ecƟ ve sidewalk. This space shall include at least one (1) of the following:
a. Landscape planters that provide seaƟ ng
b. SeaƟ ng wall (maximum two-and-one-half [2.5] feet tall)

--- page 90 ---
6 6   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
7.4 MARINER’S ISLAND SPECIFIC PLAN AREA 
7.4.1 Building Siting, Orientation, and Frontage Features - Massing and 
Articulation
No building shall exceed two (2) stories in height within one hundred (100) feet of the main lagoon 
channel, nor shall any residenƟ al construcƟ on fronƟ ng SR-92 exceed two (2) stories in height. 
7.4.2 Landscaping, Open Space, and Exterior Lighting
A. All landscaped setbacks or buﬀ ers shall consist of a berm at least one (1) foot in height that is 
planted so that at least eighty (80) percent of the berm is covered by vegetaƟ on (mature plant size) 
to provide screening of parking lots and interior roadways.
B. Exterior Water Features. All developments shall include at least one (1) of the following:
1. Pond
2. Reﬂ ecƟ ng pool
3. Fountain
Figure 64: Exterior water feature (SecƟ on 7.4.2.B)
Figure 63: Planted berm (SecƟ on 7.4.2.A)

--- page 91 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   6 7
S P E C I F I C  P L A N  A R E A  S T A N D A R D S
7.5 MID AND SOUTH EL CAMINO REAL 
7.5.1 Site Planning – Building Siting, Orientation, and Frontage Features
A. Massing and ArƟ culaƟ on. 
1. Stepbacks. All structures shall provide a four (4)-foot stepback above the second story facing El 
Camino Real for at least seventy-ﬁ ve (75) percent of the street façade. 
2. Upper Floor. The upper ﬂ oor shall include at least two (2) of the following, but not two (2) of 
any single approach.
Figure 65: Minimum four (4)-foot stepback above the 
second story (SecƟ on 7.5.1.A).
a. ProjecƟ ng roof overhangs of at least 
eighteen (18) inches
b. Varied parapet proﬁ le
c. Stepback with a minimum of three 
(3) feet for low-rise development and 
ten (10) feet for mid- and high-rise 
development along the El Camino Real 
street frontage
d. Balconies
e. Horizontal moldings
f. A change in materials and colors

--- page 92 ---
6 8   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
3. TransiƟ ons and Screening Elements. Buildings taller by ﬁ ve (5) feet than their immediate 
neighbors along the El Camino Real frontage shall relate to the neighboring structures by 
incorporaƟ ng at least one (1) of the following:
a. Building rooﬂ ine that steps down to adjacent building’s height
b. Building setbacks at the height of the adjacent building’s height
c. Windows, ground ﬂ oor awning, and canopies at the same height as the neighboring buildings 
(plus or minus one (1)-foot in height), unless ground ﬂ oor elevaƟ on is more than plus or 
minus one (1)-foot from adjacent buildings
d. ProjecƟ ng cornices at the same height as major horizontal elements on adjacent buildings
B. Windows, Doors, and Entry Design. DisƟ ncƟ ve entries to the building and individual uses that front 
El Camino Real shall be provided to incorporate at least two (2) of the following:
1. Primary entrance that is at least ﬁ Ō een (15) percent larger than other entrances 
2. Colors and materials that are a diﬀ erent hue than the primary materials and colors used on the 
building(s)
Figure 66: ResidenƟ al ground ﬂ oor unit entries shall 
incorporate at least an addiƟ onal three-foot landscaped 
setback or be elevated at least two feet above sidewalk 
level (SecƟ on 7.5.1.C)
3. At least one (1) unique entry detail on 
the building entry façade or door, such 
as detailed moldings, ornamental door 
handle and hinges, or decoraƟ ve handrails
C. ResidenƟ al Entries. ResidenƟ al ground-
ﬂ oor units fronƟ ng El Camino Real shall 
incorporate at least one (1) of the following: 
1. AddiƟ onal three (3)-foot landscaped 
setback
2. Ground-ﬂ oor level elevated at least two (2) 
feet above sidewalk level

--- page 93 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   6 9
S P E C I F I C  P L A N  A R E A  S T A N D A R D S
7.6 SAN MATEO RAIL CORRIDOR TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT 
PLAN AREA
7.6.1 Site Planning – Building Siting, Orientation, and Frontage Features
A. Block Size. All new blocks shall be no more than three hundred (300) feet by six hundred (600) 
feet. A block can be bounded by streets, alleys, or pedestrian paseos. 
B. Setbacks.
1. Mixed-use buildings with ground-ﬂ oor commercial uses shall:
a. Be built adjacent to the sidewalk except where space to accommodate seaƟ ng, outdoor 
dining, and retail display areas are provided
b. Such setback areas shall not exceed ten (10) feet in depth for more than thirty (30) percent of 
the building’s frontage
2. ResidenƟ al-only or oﬃ  ce-only buildings shall have setbacks up to ﬁ Ō een (15) feet from the 
sidewalk(s) to accommodate building entries and landscaped areas. 
3. ResidenƟ al setback areas shall include at least one (1) of the following for every unit that fronts 
the sidewalk: 
a. Porch or stoop
b. Landscaped areas, with a minimum of thirty (30) square feet in area and minimum dimension 
of four (4) feet for any side
c. Small private gardens behind maximum three (3)-foot-high architectural wall 
C. Entries. All primary building entries shall face the public street and sidewalk.

--- page 94 ---
7 0   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
7.6.2 Building Design and Architecture
A. ArƟ culaƟ on. 
1. All upper-ﬂ oor residenƟ al units facing local streets shall include at least one (1) of the following:
a. Occupiable outdoor deck designed as usable open space
b. Balcony
c. Bay window
2. All building facades visible from a public street or public area shall include at least three (3) of 
the following across the enƟ re façade:
a. Trellises
b. Arcades
c. Awnings
d. Balconies
e. Belt courses along sill lines 
f. Capped parapets
B. Mixed-use Buildings.
1. Ground-ﬂ oor retail and commercial uses shall have a façade area consisƟ ng of a minimum of 
seventy-ﬁ ve (75) percent windows and doors
2. Individual shops shall have a maximum storefront length of ﬁ Ō y (50) feet
7.6.3 Landscaping, Open Space, and Exterior Lighting. 
For mixed-use developments of at least three (3) acres of site area or an enƟ re block, a publicly 
accessible park or plaza of at least ten thousand (10,000) square feet in area, with a minimum 
dimension of ﬁ Ō y (50) feet for any side, shall be developed within the central porƟ on of the site.

--- page 95 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   7 1
S P E C I F I C  P L A N  A R E A  S T A N D A R D S
7.7 VISION OF THE GATEWAY
7.7.1 Massing and Articulation 
A. Setbacks. The following setbacks shall supersede those required for the zoning district in which the 
project is located:
1. Along the north side of Third Avenue: Minium twenty (20) feet from the Third Avenue property 
line 
2. Along the south side of Third Avenue and all of Fourth Avenue: FiŌ een (15) to twenty (20) feet 
from the property line 
3. Along neighborhood streets: FiŌ een (15) to twenty (20) feet from the property line 
B. Stepbacks.
1. Along the south side of Third Avenue and all of Fourth Avenue: Above thirty (30) feet of building 
height, an addiƟ onal eight (8)-foot minimum stepback shall be provided along the right-of-way 
facade
2. Along neighborhood streets: Above twenty-ﬁ ve (25) feet building height, an addiƟ onal eight (8)-
foot minimum stepback shall be provided along the right-of-way facade
C. Height.
1. Along the south side of Third Avenue and all of Fourth Avenue: Height at the front setback shall 
be twenty (20) feet minimum and thirty (30) feet maximum. along the right-of-way facade 
2. Along neighborhood streets: Height at the front setback line shall not exceed twenty-ﬁ ve (25) 
feet maximum. along the right-of-way facade 
D. Architectural Styles and Materials. Buildings shall incorporate at least one (1) of the following per 
unit on all street-facing facades: 
1. Porch(es)
2. Bay window(s)
3. DecoraƟ ve wall(s) up to a maximum height of three (3) feet
4. Window box(es)

--- page 96 ---
7 2   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
7.7.2 Building Design and Architecture
Buildings shall implement a Spanish Colonial Revival architectural style as outlined below:
A. Required Architectural Elements: To implement the architectural style, a structure shall include all 
of the following elements:
1. Building facing of light-colored stucco within a light reﬂ ectance value (LRV) range between 36 
and 80; use of weathered brick (no brick veneer), Ɵ le, stone, stone casƟ ng, or wood as accent 
materials is acceptable 
2. Low-pitched (below and including a 3:12 pitch) gabled or hipped roofs, sloped parapets, or ﬂ at 
surface with an eave overhang of not more than six (6) inches 
3. Red Ɵ le roofs and Ɵ les parapets; simulated materials are acceptable
B. AddiƟ onal Architectural Elements: Structures shall also include a minimum of seven (7) of the 
following elements, as illustrated above in SecƟ on 7.1 - Downtown Retail Core and Historic District.
1. MulƟ -level roofs
2. Asymmetrical massing
3. Arches that are pointed, rounded, or with a slight peak (Islamic arches); triple arched; or 
parabolic arched
4. Ornamental details derived from Spanish, ByzanƟ ne, Gothic, Italian, and Spanish historic 
architectural sources 
5. Spiral columns 
6. MulƟ -pane windows
7. Window grilles of wood, aluminum clad wood, or wrought iron. (Where used throughout the 
project, metal, iron and/or wrought iron shall be painted black or bronze)
8. Elaborate chimney tops consistent with the style
9. Round or square towers
10. DecoraƟ ve Ɵ les consistent with the architectural style 
11. Vernacular Spanish Colonial Revival decoraƟ ve ironwork
12. Ornamental treatments around doorways, stairs, surrounds, and/or windows consistent with 
the architectural style
13. Deep recessed openings at a minimum of twelve (12) inches

--- page 97 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   7 3
S P E C I F I C  P L A N  A R E A  S T A N D A R D S
7.7.3 Windows, Doors, and Entry Design 
A. ResidenƟ al Entries. 
Figure 67: Entry with porch (SecƟ on 7.7.3.A)
1. On the south side of Third Avenue, all of 
Fourth Avenue, and neighborhood streets, 
front door entries shall be located at 
intervals of at least every twenty-ﬁ ve (25) 
to thirty (30) feet.
2. On neighborhood streets:
a. Entries shall include a porch or stoop. 
b. Open porches may extend into the front 
setback area up to within ten (10) feet 
of the property line.
3. Along the south side of Third Avenue and all of Fourth Avenue:
a. Porches shall be allowed within the front setback area up to within ten (10) feet of the 
property line.
b. A buﬀ er shall be provided between a residence entry and the public sidewalk with one (1) or 
more of the following:
i. Three (3)-foot-high architectural walls within two (2) feet of the sidewalk
ii. First-level living area one-and -one-half (1.5) to four (4) feet above sidewalk grade
4. Garage Entries. Garage entrances shall be designed so that backing out onto Third and Fourth 
Avenues is not allowed.

--- page 98 ---
7 0   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o MAIN STREET PASEO, CITY OF SAN MATEO

--- page 99 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   7 1
D E F I N I T I O N S
The following deﬁ niƟ ons apply to terms used in this 
document.  Where terms are not deﬁ ned, the deﬁ niƟ ons 
contained in San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.04 
(Deﬁ niƟ ons) shall apply.
Blank Wall: A ground-ﬂ oor wall or porƟ on of a ground-
ﬂ oor wall over ten (10) feet in height and a horizontal 
length greater than twenty (20) feet and does not include 
a transparent window or door.
Building SilhoueƩ e: The top and edges of upper ﬂ oor or 
ﬂ oors of a building.
Building types, Low-rise: MulƟ ple-unit dwellings in 
aƩ ached, semi-detached, or detached structures that 
range between one to three stories and do not exceed 
thirty-ﬁ ve (35) feet in height. These buildings are 
characterized by features such as private yard areas for 
individual residences and individual parking faciliƟ es, such 
as aƩ ached or separate garages or carports accessible by 
an internal private driveway and/or alley. Such building 
types can include duplexes, triplexes, and quadplexes; 
tuck-under housing; row housing; bungalow courts; 
courtyard housing; live/work units; and townhomes.
Building types, Mid-rise: A single building or collecƟ on of 
buildings containing mulƟ ple dwellings, ranging from four 
(4) to seven (7) stories and not exceeding ninety (90) feet 
in height. Mid-rise mulƟ -family building type dwellings 
may also be combined with nonresidenƟ al uses as part of 
a mixed-use development.
Building Types, High-rise: A single building or collecƟ on 
of buildings containing mulƟ ple dwellings, with buildings 
of eight (8) stories or more or ninety (90) feet or higher 
in height. High-rise buildings typically include a shared 
pedestrian entry feature, such as an entry lobby, along a 
public street frontage and access hallways to individual 
dwelling units. High-rise mulƟ -family building type 
dwellings may include mixed-use developments.
Corner Building: A building located at the intersecƟ on of 
two (2) streets, intersecƟ on of a street and a pedestrian 
paseo, or intersecƟ on of a street and public open space.
Cupola: A small dome-like structure on top of a building 
included to add visual interest.
Eﬀ ecƟ ve Sidewalk Width: The width of a paved 
pedestrian walking surface measured from the curb face 
to the building face, inclusive of both the public right-
of-way sidewalk and any adjacent private property that 
extends the sidewalk width.
Exterior Columns: VerƟ cal elements used to establish a 
visually prominent part of a storefront or building facade. 
8
DEFINITIONS

--- page 100 ---
7 2   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S   |   C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o
Frontage Types, Primary Street Frontage: The interface 
between the building frontage and street along arterial 
roadways that link residenƟ al and commercial districts 
and serve through traﬃ  c needs. 
Frontage Types, Secondary Street Frontage: The interface 
between the buildings and the streets along collector 
roads and local streets that link neighborhoods to arterial 
street(s) and are not intended for through traﬃ  c or are 
designed to serve only adjacent land uses.  
Ground-ﬂ oor (dwelling) Unit: A unit where any habitable 
space (such as living, sleeping, eaƟ ng, or cooking areas) is 
located on the ground level.
Neon Color: A color that is an extremely luminescent 
(reﬂ ecƟ ve and bright), highly saturated version of a 
primary or secondary color such as blue, red, green, 
yellow, orange, pink, and purple. 
Non-acƟ ve Use: A use of a building or porƟ on of 
a building used for parking, storage, or housing of 
mechanical equipment.
Parapet: A low wall built up above the level of a roof to 
hide the roof or to provide protecƟ on against falling, and 
similar structures associated with balconies, etc.
Public Use Path: A public use trail or similar connecƟ on 
other than a sidewalk. 
Reveal: The inner surface of an opening or recess in a 
wall, typically in relaƟ on to a window or door.
Roof Deck: An open area located atop a building story 
that is open to the sky and is designed and used for 
passive open space by building tenants. May be located 
on any ﬂ at roof on or above the second building story. 
Roof Line: The top edge of a roof or the top of the 
parapet, whichever forms the top line of a building 
silhoueƩ e.
Shade Structure: A detached or aƩ ached structure that: 
1) is designed to protect people from the sun and 2) is 
no higher than the ﬁ rst story of a building and has a roof 
or taut, durable tarp but does not have walls or covering 
on the sides. May include a paƟ o cover, arbor, trellis, or 
similar structure. For the purposes of this deﬁ niƟ on, the 
term “wall” shall not include the wall of a building to 
which a shade structure may be aƩ ached.
Spanish Colonial Revival: An architectural style deﬁ ned 
by low-pitched, red-Ɵ le roofs, stucco walls, rounded 
arches, and an asymmetrical façade. The style draws its 
inspiraƟ on from Spanish colonial architecture daƟ ng to 
Spain’s colonializaƟ on of the Americas in the 1700s.

--- page 101 ---
C i t y  o f  S a n  M a t e o   |   O B J E C T I V E  D E S I G N  S T A N D A R D S  |   7 3
D E F I N I T I O N S
Stepback:  The horizontal shiŌ ing of mass towards the 
center of a building through a recession of a building wall. 
Stepbacks shall extend across all stories (horizontally and 
verƟ cally), unless otherwise stated, and can create usable 
exterior spaces or terraces that provide access to, for 
example, fresh air, views, and gardening. Stepbacks shall 
be measured inward from the exterior face of building 
wall(s) of the story below. No porƟ on of the building 
may intrude into the required stepback, except where 
intrusions are speciﬁ cally permiƩ ed (below).
Stoop: A porch, plaƞ orm, or stairway at the entrance of a 
house or other building.
Tower: A structure that is at least twice as tall as the 
dimension of the base width. Can be freestanding or part 
of a building.
Transom Window: A band of upper story windows 
typically above the top of door height to provide 
addiƟ onal light and air into the interior of a residence or 
storefront.
Tuck-under Parking: Covered parking spaces constructed 
at the same ground level as the building(s) they serve, are 
covered by the upper ﬂ oor(s) of the building(s) and are 
open on at least one side.    
Underground Parking: Parking located parƟ ally or fully 
below grade. Includes ramping structures. 
UƟ liƟ es and Mechanical Equipment: Includes, but is 
not limited to, air condiƟ oners; heaters; uƟ lity meters; 
cable and similar telecommunicaƟ ons equipment; 
backﬂ ow prevenƟ ons; irrigaƟ on control valves; electrical 
transformers; pull boxes; all ducƟ ng for air condiƟ oning, 
heaƟ ng, and blower systems; ﬁ re protecƟ on equipment; 
transformers; and all roof-mounted equipment. These 
provisions do not apply to wireless telecommunicaƟ ons 
faciliƟ es.
Window Trim: The moldings covering the jambs and head 
of a window.
Stepback: The horizontal shiŌ ing of mass towards the center of a building through a recession of a building wall.

--- page 102 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Amending Title 27, Zoning, Related to Objective Design Standards and Review Process for Multi-
Family and Mixed-Use Residential Projects, and Align Fence Height Standard for Planning Applications 
with Building Code Standards.
WHEREAS, under the Housing Accountability Act, housing development projects, as defined, are 
subject to design review standards and criteria provided that they are objective in nature and not 
subjective; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (City) desires to update its existing design standards for multi-
family residential and residential mixed-use developments to offer objective design criteria for 
streamlined review of projects; and 
WHEREAS, the City’s draft 2023-2031 Housing Element identifies programs to further streamline 
processing for projects, including the adoption of objective design standards and the increase of Zoning 
Administrator approval authority to include projects with 6 to 25 residential dwelling units; and
WHEREAS, the City has conducted extensive community outreach over the last three years 
regarding objective design standards, including three public outreach meetings and two Planning 
Commission study sessions; and 
WHEREAS, in accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, Section 
15061(b)(3), adoption of this ordinance is covered by the "common sense exemption" that CEQA applies 
only to projects which have the potential to cause a significant effect on the environment. Here, it can 
be seen with certainty that the proposed amendments create objective design standards and a 
streamlined review process for small projects up to twenty-five (25) residential dwelling units subject to 
objective design standards and therefore would not have a significant effect on the environment.; and
WHEREAS, on October ______, 2023, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public 
hearing, received all written and oral public comments, and recommended that the City Council approve 
the proposed ordinance.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Legislative Findings.
At a duly noticed public hearing, the City Council of the City of San Mateo reviewed and 
considered the accompanying staff report and attachments thereto, the exemption from environmental 
review, together with comments received during the public review process, and hereby finds and 
determines that the proposed ordinance is consistent with the adopted General Plan in that it supports 
successful completion of projects that implement and achieve the General Plan’s stated goals and 
policies.

--- page 103 ---
Section 2. Section 27.06.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.06.020 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR—POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Zoning Administrator shall enforce the provisions of this Title, and shall:
(a) Conduct such inspections of buildings, structures, and use of land as are necessary to 
determine compliance with the terms of this Title;
(b) Establish, with the approval of the Council, and administer rules for the conduct of the Zoning 
Administrator's office;
(c) Maintain permanent and current records of documents and proceedings under this Title;
(d) Provide and maintain a continuing program of education and public information on zoning 
matters;
(e) Recommend abatement of violations of this Title and aid in prosecution thereof;
(f) Receive, file, and transmit to the appropriate approval body all planning applications and all 
appeals which the designated approval body is authorized to review or to take final action upon under 
the provisions of this Title;
(g) Interpret provisions of the zoning ordinance, subject to appeal of the decision to the Planning 
Commission;
(h) Have the authority to review and approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the following 
types of projects, provided that the projects do not result in any significant impacts pursuant to the 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), subject to public notice and to appeal of the final action to 
the Planning Commission:
(1) Site plan and architectural review for projects that incorporate:
(A) Up to twenty-five (25) residential dwelling units that meet objective design 
standards as adopted by resolution of the City Council; or
(B) Up to five (5) residential dwelling units that do not meet objective design 
standards as adopted by resolution of the City Council; or
(C) Up to 10,000 square feet of non- residential development; or
(D) Other minor site improvements including but not limited to parking lots, 
landscaping, recreation facilities, accessory structures, recycling collection areas, circular 
driveways in R1, R2 districts;

--- page 104 ---
(E) Fences over seven (7) feet and those over three (3) feet when located in a 
front yard and/or street side yard setback or within forty-five (45) feet of a street 
intersection line, authorized by Chapter 27.84.
(F) Freestanding signs.
(2) Site development permits for removal of major vegetation required for the 
construction of projects that require Zoning Administrator review and approval, or grading of 
five thousand (5,000) cubic yards or less under Chapter 23.40.
(3) Variances as authorized by Chapter 27.78, for single-family, accessory dwelling units,  
duplex dwellings, or residential projects with up to six (6) residential dwelling units .
(4) Temporary use permits authorized by Chapter 27.74.
(5) Modifications authorized by Chapter 27.08.
(6) Special permits to allow the following:
(A) Recycling facilities subject to regulations established in Chapter 27.69;
(B) Plumbing in detached accessory buildings in the R-1 zone, as authorized 
under Chapter 27.18
(C) Substantial removal of existing residences in an R-1 zoning district;
(D) Temporary real estate sales offices, as authorized under Chapters 26.04 and 
27.18; 
(E) Swimming pools, hot tubs, and spas located in required front or street side 
yards, as authorized under Chapter 27.18; and
(F) Additional floor area ratio in the R-3 District, as authorized under Chapter 
27.22.
(7) Concurrent development of two or more contiguous lots or parcels of real property in 
R-1 and R-2 districts.
(8) Parcel Maps without exceptions as authorized by Title 26 (Subdivision).
(9) Single-Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) Applications.
(10) City projects that meet the following criteria:

--- page 105 ---
(A) The project was conceptually approved as part of, or approved concurrent 
with, a Master Plan, program document, or project planning document that is in effect 
and has been previously approved by the City Council; and
(B) The project does not propose major changes from previous City Council 
approval; and
(C) The project would not result in a significant environmental impact pursuant 
to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).
(i) Notwithstanding the above, the Zoning Administrator may refer the application to the 
Planning Commission for hearing and action when it is unclear whether the necessary findings for 
project approval can be made.
Section 3. Section 27.06.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.06.040
PLANNING COMMISSION—JURISDICTION.
(a) The Commission shall review and take final action, subject to appeal to the Council, upon all 
applications for:
(1) Appeals from the decisions of the Zoning Administrator;
(2) Special use permits other than for high rise buildings, or those identified under 
Section 27.06.020(h)(6);
(3) Site Plan and Architectural Review for projects that incorporate:
(A) Twenty-six (26) or more residential dwelling units that meet objective design 
standards as adopted by resolution of the City Council; or
(B) Six (6) or more residential dwelling units that do not meet objective design 
standards as adopted by resolution of the City Council; or 
(C) Over 10,000 square feet of non-residential development.
(4) Site Development Planning Applications involving grading of more than five thousand 
(5,000) cubic yards under Section 23.40;
(5) Tentative Maps and Parcel Maps with exceptions under Title 26 (Subdivisions);
(6) Applications which are accompanied by environmental impact reports, other than 
reclassifications, planned developments, special use permits for high rise buildings, and general 
plan amendments;

--- page 106 ---
(7) Release of conditions or easements recorded by the City under Section 27.08.045.
(8) Modifications under Section 27.08.080(b).
(9) Variances as authorized in Section 27.78.040 for planning applications for structures 
other than single-family and duplex.
(10) Planned signing districts and freestanding signs over eight (8) feet in height.
(b) The Commission shall review and make recommendations to the Council upon all 
applications for reclassifications, planned developments, site plan and architectural review for buildings 
exceeding 55 feet in height, General Plan amendments, projects which are fully or partially funded by 
the City and otherwise require Planning Commission review, and projects which include as part of the 
site any parcel of land which is in whole or in part subject to the tidelands trust provisions of State law.
(c) The Commission may, on its own initiative, recommend to the Council that proceedings be 
initiated for an amendment, supplement, change or repeal of the whole or any portion of this Title, 
provided that public hearings thereon shall be held in the manner prescribed in this Title. The 
Commission shall periodically initiate a comprehensive review of the provisions of this Title and make a 
report of its findings to the Council.
Section 4. Section 27.08.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.08.030
SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW (SPAR).
(a) The following projects, as well as other projects that may be designated in this code, require 
a site plan and architectural review and no such project shall commence until the approval body has 
approved a planning application for site plan and architectural review: any building, new parking lot, 
fence over seven(7) feet in height, or an extension, alteration, or addition of or to an existing building or 
parking lot; historic buildings within the Downtown Specific Plan area as specified in Chapter 27.66. 
Single family and accessory buildings that conform to the standards contained in Chapter 27.18, or 
minor facade modifications as defined in Section 27.04.313, and which conform with Section 27.08.031, 
are exempt from this requirement, unless they are specifically designated by this section as requiring 
review. In making its review, the Zoning Administrator, Development Review Board, and Planning 
Commission shall be guided by the standards adopted by the Planning Commission and City Council. The 
application shall be approved if the Zoning Administrator or Commission finds all of the following to 
exist:
(1) The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the 
character of the neighborhood;
(2) The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of 
the City;

--- page 107 ---
(3) The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the 
vicinity, and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare;
(4) The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning 
Commission and City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of 
the zoning ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site;
(5) The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security.
(b) All buildings, structures, landscaping, and other establishments shall be constructed in 
accordance with the approved drawings.
(c) The City Council shall review and make the final determination on all buildings exceeding 
fifty-five (55) feet in height or where required by express General Plan provisions.
Section 5. Section 27.21.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.21.030
Rules of Procedure
Except as otherwise outlined below, the applicable rules of procedure contained in Chapter 
27.08 shall apply to all SB 9 planning applications. Where there is a conflict, standards in this Chapter 
shall prevail.
(a) Planning Application Submittal. An SB 9 planning application, on the form(s) prescribed by 
the Department, for either an attached or detached unit(s) and/or urban lot splits, shall be submitted 
for all development pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.
(1) An applicant may file concurrent planning applications under this Chapter for one or 
two-unit development and an urban lot split.
(2) Processing of Applications. Unless an SB 9 application is submitted pursuant to 
Section 27.21.045 of this Chapter, SB 9 application(s) shall be processed as prescribed in Section 
27.08.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, except that these applications shall be considered 
ministerially with no public hearing.
(b) Informational Notice. Upon receipt of an SB 9 planning application, and once the project is 
deemed complete, the City shall provide an informational notice that an SB 9 application has been filed 
with the City to all property owners and tenants within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel and to the 
applicable neighborhood association(s) in accordance with the noticing procedures adopted by the 
Department.
(c) Ministerial Permit Approval. If an SB 9 planning application complies with the provisions of 
this Chapter, a ministerial, non-discretionary permit shall be issued. Notwithstanding anything contrary

--- page 108 ---
in this code, the issuance of a ministerial SB 9 Two-Unit Development permit and/or a SB 9 Urban Lot 
Split permit is not appealable.
(d) Submittal Requirements. In addition to the requirements of Section 27.08.010(c), each 
application shall be accompanied by all of the following:
(1) Application Forms. Completed SB 9 planning application forms as prescribed by the 
Department;
(2) Property Ownership. Verification of property ownership in the form of a preliminary 
title report that is no more than a year old, showing the current owners of the property, the 
names of record owners of the land, and all existing easements and other reservations, 
restrictions, or covenants; and
(3) Legal Description. An accurate legal description of the property and any resultant 
lots in the case of an urban lot split application; and
(4) Plans. Scaled and accurate plans to include required applicable information as 
outlined in the Planning Application and/or Urban Lot Split Submittal Requirements checklists; 
and
(5) Affidavit. A completed property owner tenant disclosure affidavit and 
acknowledgement that the application meets SB 9 eligibility requirements.
(6) Findings. Findings of Approval. An SB 9 application not submitted pursuant to Section 
27.21.045 of this Chapter shall be approved ministerially if the Zoning Administrator or designee 
makes all the following findings:
(A) The parcel is within the Two-Unit Overlay District and meets all qualifying 
criteria as outlined in this Chapter;
(B) The development meets all applicable objective standards contained in and 
required by the General Plan, San Mateo Municipal Code or other City adopted plans, 
policies, or standards;
(C) The development does not adversely affect matters regarding police 
protection, crime prevention, and security because it adheres to the objective standards 
of Chapter 23.54;
(D) The proposed SB 9 unit(s) is consistent with all applicable SB 9 objective 
design standards of the Two-Unit Overlay District
(7) Findings of Denial. An SB 9 application shall be denied if the Building Official makes 
written findings, based upon a preponderance of evidence, that:

--- page 109 ---
(A) The proposed housing development would have a specific adverse impact, 
as defined and determined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 65589.5, as 
amended, of the Government Code, upon public health and safety or the physical 
environment, and for which there is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or 
avoid the specific adverse impact(s).
Section 6. Section 27.39.120 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.39.120
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
In this district, residential uses shall be permitted as part of mixed-use developments, subject to 
the City’s Objective Design Standards as adopted by resolution of the City Council and requirements of 
Section 27.38.130.
Section 7. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act 
(CEQA) Guidelines, Section 15061(b)(3), adoption of these ordinance amendments is covered by the 
"common sense exemption" that CEQA applies only to projects which have the potential to cause a 
significant effect on the environment. Here, it can be seen with certainty that the proposed 
amendments create objective design standards and a streamlined review process for small projects up 
to twenty-five (25) residential dwelling units subject to objective design standards and therefore would 
not have a significant effect on the environment. .
Section 8. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, Section 
15061(b)(3), adoption of these ordinance amendments is covered by the "common sense exemption" 
that CEQA applies only to projects which have the potential to cause a significant effect on the 
environment. Here, it can be seen with certainty that the proposed amendments create objective design 
standards and a streamlined review process for small projects up to twenty-five (25) residential dwelling 
units subject to objective design standards and therefore would not have a significant effect on the 
environment. 
Section 9. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be 
determined invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and 
all other sections or portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 10. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general 
circulation, posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 
2.15 of the City Charter.
Section 11. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., 
and adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.

--- page 110 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
 Amending Title 27, Zoning, Related to Objective Design Standards and Review Process for Multi-
Family and Mixed-Use Residential Projects, and Align Fence Height Standard for Planning Applications 
with Building Code Standards.
WHEREAS, under the Housing Accountability Act, housing development projects, as defined, are 
subject to design review standards and criteria provided that they are objective in nature and not 
subjective; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (City) desires to update its existing design standards for multi-
family residential and residential mixed-use developments to offer objective design criteria for 
streamlined review of projects; and 
WHEREAS, the City’s draft 2023-2031 Housing Element identifies programs to further streamline 
processing for projects, including the adoption of objective design standards and the increase of Zoning 
Administrator approval authority to include projects with 6 to 25 residential dwelling units; and
WHEREAS, the City has conducted extensive community outreach over the last three years 
regarding objective design standards, including three public outreach meetings and two Planning 
Commission study sessions; and 
WHEREAS, in accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, Section 
15061(b)(3), adoption of this ordinance is covered by the "common sense exemption" that CEQA applies 
only to projects which have the potential to cause a significant effect on the environment. Here, it can 
be seen with certainty that the proposed amendments create objective design standards and a 
streamlined review process for small projects up to twenty-five (25) residential dwelling units subject to 
objective design standards and therefore would not have a significant effect on the environment.; and
WHEREAS, on October ______, 2023, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public 
hearing, received all written and oral public comments, and recommended that the City Council approve 
the proposed ordinance.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Legislative Findings.
At a duly noticed public hearing, the City Council of the City of San Mateo reviewed and 
considered the accompanying staff report and attachments thereto, the exemption from environmental 
review, together with comments received during the public review process, and hereby finds and 
determines that the proposed ordinance is consistent with the adopted General Plan in that it supports 
successful completion of projects that implement and achieve the General Plan’s stated goals and 
policies.

--- page 111 ---
Section 2. Section 27.06.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.06.020 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR—POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Zoning Administrator shall enforce the provisions of this Title, and shall:
(a) Conduct such inspections of buildings, structures, and use of land as are 
necessary to determine compliance with the terms of this Title;
(b) Establish, with the approval of the Council, and administer rules for the 
conduct of the Zoning Administrator's office;
(c) Maintain permanent and current records of documents and proceedings under this 
Title;
(d) Provide and maintain a continuing program of education and public information on 
zoning matters;
(e) Recommend abatement of violations of this Title and aid in prosecution thereof;
(f) Receive, file, and transmit to the appropriate approval body all planning 
applications and all appeals which the designated approval body is authorized to review or 
to take final action upon under the provisions of this Title;
(g) Interpret provisions of the zoning ordinance, subject to appeal of the 
decision to the Planning Commission;
(h) Have the authority to review and approve, conditionally approve, or 
disapprove the following types of projects, provided that the projects do not result in any 
significant impacts pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), subject 
to public notice and to appeal of the final action to the Planning Commission:
(1) Site plan and architectural review for projects that incorporate:
(A) Up to twenty-five (25) residential dwelling units that 
meet objective design standards as adopted by resolution of the 
City Council; or
(B) Projects lLess than Up to (65) residential dwelling 
unitsOR units that do not meet objective design standards as 
adopted by resolution of the City Council; or
(A)(C)
Up to 10,000 square feet of non- residential 
developments;ORdevelopment; or

--- page 112 ---
(B)(D)
Other minor site improvements including but not 
limited to parking lots, landscaping, recreation facilities, accessory 
structures, recycling collection areas, circular driveways in R-1, R-
2R1, R2 districts;
(E) Fences over 6seven (7) feet and those over three (3) feet 
when located in a front yard and/or street side yard 
setback or within forty-five (45) feet of a street 
intersection line, authorized by Chapter 27.84.
(C)(F)
Freestanding signs.
(2) Site development permits for removal of major vegetation required 
for the construction of single-family or duplex dwellingsprojects that require 
Zoning Administrator review and approval, or grading of five thousand (5,000) 
cubic yards or less under Chapter 23.40.
(3) Variances as authorized by Chapter 27.78, for single-family, 
accessory dwelling units, or duplex dwellings and for minor site 
improvements as described in subsection (h)(1) above, or residential projects 
with up to six (6) residential dwelling units.
(4) Temporary use permits authorized by Chapter 27.74.
(5) Modifications authorized by Chapter 27.08.
(6) Special permits to allow the following:
(A) Recycling facilities subject to regulations established in Chapter 27.69;
(B) Plumbing in detached accessory buildings in the R-1 zone, as 
authorized under Chapter 27.18
(C) Substantial removal of existing residences in an R1R-1 zoning district;
(D) Temporary real estate sales offices, as authorized under Chapters 
26.04 and 27.18; 
(E) Swimming pools, hot tubs, and spas located in required front 
or street side yards, as authorized under Chapter 27.18; and
(F) Additional floor area ratio in the R-3 District, as authorized under 
Chapter 27.22.

--- page 113 ---
(7) Concurrent development of two or more contiguous lots or parcels 
of real property in R-1 and R-2 districts.
(8) Parcel Maps without exceptions as authorized by Title 26 (Subdivision).
(9) Single-Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) Applications.
(10) City projects that meet the following criteria:
(A) The project was conceptually approved as part of, or approved 
concurrent with, a Master Plan, program document, or project planning 
document that is in effect and has been previously approved by the City Council; 
and
(B) The project does not propose major changes from previous City 
Council approval; and
(C) The project would not result in a significant environmental impact 
pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).
(i) Notwithstanding the above, the Zoning Administrator may refer the application to the Planning 
Commission for hearing and action when it is unclear whether the necessary findings for project 
approval can be made.
Section 3. Section 27.06.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.06.040
PLANNING COMMISSION—JURISDICTION.
(a) The Commission shall review and take final action, subject to appeal to the Council, upon all 
applications for:
(1) Appeals from the decisions of the Zoning Administrator;
(2) Special use permits other than for high rise buildings, or those identified under 
Section 27.06.020(h)(6);
(3) Site Plan and Architectural Review for projects of six or more dwelling units 
Betweenand 25  and over 10,000 square feet of non-residential development.that incorporate:
(A) Site Twenty-six (26) or more residential dwelling units that meet objective 
design standards as adopted by resolution of the City Council; or
(B) Six (6) or more residential dwelling units that do not meet objective design 
standards as adopted by resolution of the City Council; or

--- page 114 ---
(C) Over 10,000 square feet of non-residential development permits.
(4) Site Development Planning Applications involving grading of more than five thousand 
(5,000) cubic yards under Section 23.40.120(2);;
(5) Tentative Maps and Parcel Maps with exceptions under Title 26 
(subdivisionSubdivisions);
(6) Applications which are accompanied by environmental impact reports, other than 
reclassifications, planned developments, special use permits for high rise buildings, and general 
plan amendments;
(7) Release of conditions or easements recorded by the City under Section 27.08.045.
(8) Modifications under Section 27.08.080(b).
(9) Variances as authorized in Section 27.78.040 for planning applications for structures 
other than single-family and duplex.
(10) Planned signing districts and freestanding signs over eight (8) feet in height.
(b) The Commission shall review and make recommendations to the Council upon all 
applications for reclassifications, planned developments, site plan and architectural review for buildings 
exceeding 55 feet in height, General Plan amendments, projects which are fully or partially funded by 
the City and otherwise require Planning Commission review, and projects which include as part of the 
site any parcel of land which is in whole or in part subject to the tidelands trust provisions of State law.
(c) The Commission may, on its own initiative, recommend to the Council that proceedings be 
initiated for an amendment, supplement, change or repeal of the whole or any portion of this Title, 
provided that public hearings thereon shall be held in the manner prescribed in this Title. The 
Commission shall periodically initiate a comprehensive review of the provisions of this Title and make a 
report of its findings to the Council.
(1) Variances as authorized in Section 27.78.040.
Section 4. Section 27.08.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.08.030
SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW (SPAR).
(a) The following projects, as well as other projects that may be designated in this code, require 
a site plan and architectural review and no such project shall commence until the approval body has 
approved a planning application for site plan and architectural review: any building, new parking lot, 
fence over six seven (7) feet in height, or an extension, alteration, or addition of or to an existing 
building or parking lot; historic buildings within the Downtown Specific Plan area as specified in Chapter

--- page 115 ---
27.66. Single family and accessory buildings that conform to the standards contained in Chapter 27.18, 
or minor facade modifications as defined in Section 27.04.313, and which conform with Section 
27.08.031, are exempt from this requirement, unless they are specifically designated by this section as 
requiring review. In making its review, the Zoning Administrator, Development Review Board, and 
Planning Commission shall be guided by the standards adopted by the Planning Commission and City 
Council. The application shall be approved if the Zoning Administrator or Commission finds all of the 
following to exist:
(1) The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the 
character of the neighborhood;
(2) The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of 
the City;
(3) The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the 
vicinity, and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare;
(4) The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning 
Commission and City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of 
the zoning ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site;
(5) The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security.
(b) All buildings, structures, landscaping, and other establishments shall be constructed in 
accordance with the approved drawings.
(c) The City Council shall review and make the final determination on all buildings exceeding 
fifty-five (55) feet in height or where required by express General Plan provisions.
Section 5. Section 27.21.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.21.030
Rules of Procedure
Except as otherwise outlined below, the applicable rules of procedure contained in Chapter 
27.08 shall apply to all SB 9 planning applications. Where there is a conflict, standards in this Chapter 
shall prevail.
(a) Planning Application Submittal. An SB 9 planning application, on the form(s) prescribed by 
the Department, for either an attached or detached unit(s) and/or urban lot splits, shall be submitted 
for all development pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.
(1) An applicant may file concurrent planning applications under this Chapter for one or 
two-unit development and an urban lot split.

--- page 116 ---
(2) Processing of Applications. Unless an SB 9 application is submitted pursuant to 
Section 27.21.045 of this Chapter, SB 9 application(s) shall be processed as prescribed in Section 
27.08.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, except that these applications shall be considered 
ministerially with no public hearing.
(b) Informational Notice. Upon receipt of an SB 9 planning application, and once the project is 
deemed complete, the City shall provide an informational notice that an SB 9 application has been filed 
with the City to all property owners and tenants within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel and to the 
applicable neighborhood association(s) in accordance with the noticing procedures adopted by the 
Department.
(c) Ministerial Permit Approval. If an SB 9 planning application complies with the provisions of 
this Chapter, a ministerial, non-discretionary permit shall be issued. Notwithstanding anything contrary 
in this code, the issuance of a ministerial SB 9 Two-Unit Development permit and/or a SB 9 Urban Lot 
Split permit is not appealable.
(d) Submittal Requirements. In addition to the requirements of Section 27.08.010(c), each 
application shall be accompanied by all of the following:
(1) Application Forms. Completed SB 9 planning application forms as prescribed by the 
Department;
(2) Property Ownership. Verification of property ownership in the form of a preliminary 
title report that is no more than a year old, showing the current owners of the property, the 
names of record owners of the land, and all existing easements and other reservations, 
restrictions, or covenants; and
(3) Legal Description. An accurate legal description of the property and any resultant 
lots in the case of an urban lot split application; and
(4) Plans. Scaled and accurate plans to include required applicable information as 
outlined in the Planning Application and/or Urban Lot Split Submittal Requirements checklists; 
and
(5) Affidavit. A completed property owner tenant disclosure affidavit and 
acknowledgement that the application meets SB 9 eligibility requirements.
(6) Findings. Findings of Approval. An SB 9 application not submitted pursuant to Section 
27.21.045 of this Chapter shall be approved ministerially if the Zoning Administrator or designee 
makes all the following findings:
(A) The parcel is within the Two-Unit Overlay District and meets all qualifying 
criteria as outlined in this Chapter;

--- page 117 ---
(B) The development meets all applicable objective standards contained in and 
required by the General Plan, San Mateo Municipal Code or other City adopted 
planplans, policies, or standards;
(C) The development does not adversely affect matters regarding police 
protection, crime prevention, and security because it adheres to the objective standards 
of Chapter 23.54;
(D) The proposed SB 9 unit(s) is consistent with all applicable SB 9 objective 
design standards of the Two-Unit Overlay District
(7) Findings of Denial. An SB 9 application shall be denied if the Building Official makes 
written findings, based upon a preponderance of evidence, that:
(A) The proposed housing development would have a specific adverse impact, 
as defined and determined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 65589.5, as 
amended, of the Government Code, upon public health and safety or the physical 
environment, and for which there is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or 
avoid the specific adverse impact(s).
Section 6. Section 27.39.120 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.39.120
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
In this district, residential uses shall be permitted as part of mixed -use developments, subject to 
the standards City’s Objective Design Standards as adopted by resolution of the City Council and 
requirements of Section 27.38.130.
Section 7. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act 
(CEQA) Guidelines, Section 15061(b)(3), adoption of these ordinance amendments is covered by the 
"common sense exemption" that CEQA applies only to projects which have the potential to cause a 
significant effect on the environment. Here, it can be seen with certainty that the proposed 
amendments create objective design standards and a streamlined review process for small projects up 
to twenty-five (25) residential dwelling units subject to objective design standards and therefore would 
not have a significant effect on the environment.

--- page 118 ---
Section 8. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be 
determined invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and 
all other sections or portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 9. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general 
circulation, posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 
2.15 of the City Charter.
Section 10. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete, 
and adopted on Clerk to complete, and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.

--- page 119 ---
Bike racks?
Store
inside?
Keeping
things
simple
Interactive Discussion
San Mateo Multi-Family Objective Design Standards | Workshop June 1, 2021
Site Design 
Is this building
placement efficient?
Massing
Is this building overly
bulky and/or out of scale?
Articulation
Does the building face have
visually interesting elements and
variation?
Materials
Do the materials harmonize with one
another? With the San Mateo
community context?
Transitional Design
Does this building respect neighboring uses and
predominant development pattern?
Streetscape Relationship
Does this design nurture a desirable ground-
floor environment along the frontage?
Open Space
Is this an attractive and functional open
space configuration?
Lighting and Site Security
Does this appear to be well-illuminated and
secure?
Example 1
Other Comments
Site Design 
Is this building
placement efficient?
Massing
Is this building overly
bulky and/or out of scale?
Articulation
Does the building face have
visually interesting elements and
variation?
Materials
Do the materials harmonize with one
another? With the San Mateo
community context?
Transitional Design
Does this building respect neighboring uses and
predominant development pattern?
Streetscape Relationship
Does this design nurture a desirable ground-
floor environment along the frontage?
Open Space
Is this an attractive and functional open
space configuration?
Lighting and Site Security
Does this appear to be well-illuminated and
secure?
Example 2
Other Comments
Site Design 
Is this building
placement efficient?
Massing
Is this building overly
bulky and/or out of scale?
Articulation
Does the building face have
visually interesting elements and
variation?
Materials
Do the materials harmonize with one
another? With the San Mateo
community context?
Transitional Design
Does this building respect neighboring uses and
predominant development pattern?
Streetscape Relationship
Does this design nurture a desirable ground-
floor environment along the frontage?
Open Space
Is this an attractive and functional open
space configuration?
Lighting and Site Security
Does this appear to be well-illuminated and
secure?
Example 3
Other Comments
Site Design 
Is this building
placement efficient?
Massing
Is this building overly
bulky and/or out of scale?
Articulation
Does the building face have
visually interesting elements and
variation?
Materials
Do the materials harmonize with one
another? With the San Mateo
community context?
Transitional Design
Does this building respect neighboring uses and
predominant development pattern?
Streetscape Relationship
Does this design nurture a desirable ground-
floor environment along the frontage?
Open Space
Is this an attractive and functional open
space configuration?
Lighting and Site Security
Does this appear to be well-illuminated and
secure?
Example 4
Other Comments
Site Design 
Is this building
placement efficient?
Massing
Is this building overly
bulky and/or out of scale?
Articulation
Does the building face have
visually interesting elements and
variation?
Materials
Do the materials harmonize with one
another? With the San Mateo
community context?
Transitional Design
Does this building respect neighboring uses and
predominant development pattern?
Streetscape Relationship
Does this design nurture a desirable ground-
floor environment along the frontage?
Open Space
Is this an attractive and functional open
space configuration?
Lighting and Site Security
Does this appear to be well-illuminated and
secure?
Example 6
Other Comments
Site Design 
Is this building
placement efficient?
Massing
Is this building overly
bulky and/or out of scale?
Articulation
Does the building face have
visually interesting elements and
variation?
Materials
Do the materials harmonize with one
another? With the San Mateo
community context?
Transitional Design
Does this building respect neighboring uses and
predominant development pattern?
Streetscape Relationship
Does this design nurture a desirable ground-
floor environment along the frontage?
Open Space
Is this an attractive and functional open
space configuration?
Lighting and Site Security
Does this appear to be well-illuminated and
secure?
Example 5
Other Comments
missing
common
area
maintenance
overtime
problematic
nice modern
take on
traditional
design 
elegant
design of
modern
housing
good job of
using
restraint
A multifamily
that could pass
as a single
family home. 
incorporate
similar
materials to
existing
neighborhood
find front
door
easily
define balance
for different
neighborhoods
does not tell
much - post-
modern
look
appropriate in
low density
neighborhood
how garage,
driveway,
parking
element(s) are
handled 
bird strikes
on glass
ultraviolet
glass
Garage
doors too
prominent
Seems very
boxy,
imposing
Slanted
roofs clunky
Hardscape and
garage doors
dominate the
street facade at
ground level 
 pretty busy with
the number of
materials, colors
and planes 
articulation
need to be
purposeful,
not overly
arbitrary 
Massing is
not problem,
it is the
design.
ODS - take a
facade
developed
before 1940
and recreate
Built before
war, ODS can
reference
traditional
forms
fit in with a
residential
neighborhood,
it just needs to
be less busy
Not a lot of
enablement
of outdoor
activity
encourage
balconies,
patios,
central
courtyards
SM has many great
examples of multi-
family, large units.
Look around main
library on 4th ave.
not functional
for residents
(furniture), too
much window
frontage
Streetscape
unappealing
Too much
glass.  I don’t
get the
stucco zig-
zags.
Not elevating
sense of
community,
call attention
to itself
claymation
face
more landscaping
and fine grained
elements to make
ped friendly,
human scale
More shared
spaces,
appears cold
Blocky,
glassy,
inhumane,
does not fit
into context
Lit glass
attracts birds,
perfect target
for birds
Too busy.
Articulation and
color is not
working for it. 
I don't like
lighted center
stairwell that
impacts non-
residents.  Too
much glass.
Flexibility for
many
different
types of retail
protected bicycle/
walking lane,
greenery, tables &
chairs if there’s F&B
on that first floor 
gardens/vertical
gardens to
provide softness
at pedestrian
scales
continuous,
interesting
lower level
for
pedestrians
Massing is clunky and
top heavy; feels like
the upper 5 floors are
crushing the ground
floor, which is visually
receeding.
Really like
glass, light is
important 
More
greenery,
plants trained
to grow up the
wall
Lack of ingress/
egress
Balance
security with
ground floor
access
allow people to
take advantage
of tradeoffs, not
every single box
check, menu of
items
implies balcony,
but does not exist.
Encourage real
ones. Do not
imply functionality.
highlight
entrance
more. 
Articulation is
good, massing
is okay, color
palette needs
more work.
window placement
works
psychologically -
symmetrically
located, vertically
oriented
Door
difficult to
find
Street level
- flat and
plain
need more
detail and
visual
interest
Streetscape
is minimal
Top of building
could use more
articulation at
the long flat wall
sections
Pedestrian
entry needs to
celebrated and
easy to find.
The relationship
of window size
to solid building
elements will be
important.
Details here will be
critical.  This
example has large
windows but
doesn't feel like an
all glass building.
See first floor be
completely
different from
other floors. TLC
on blankness of
walls.
Chance to see
someone you
know, social
collision 
Over-
articulated
on the
bottom.
The lighted
center
stairwell
looks great.
The green space in
the final product
turned out much
nicer than in the
render. The mature
trees really help.
You can see
bike racks 
Balcony space -
overdue space
where it is not
used, focus more
on communal
space
Don't overdue
balcony space
requirements
not as
inviting, or
functional, on
the corner
the wrap around
balconies seems to
“weaken” the
corner.  Perhaps
less balcony would
enhance the
massing.
The color palette
works well together
(not a ton of
contrasting colors),
it’s light and bright,
lots of balconies for
people to enjoy the
outdoors
Street facing
element more
important
Not crazy about how
far the building is set
back from the street,
taking valuable space
away from adding
more units.  Feels a
little over-articulated.
I really like the
balconies here;
ideally, they’d
be allowed, but
not required.
Materials and
colors use more
adjustment in
balance of
proportions
If you could
walk up to that
first floor corner
balcony, that
would be nice.
call to attention
uniqueness
instead of
evenly
distributing
everything
More primary,
identify
secodary and
terttiary colors
and materials,
more contrast
Wonderful if
people use
balcony to enjoy
outdoor & maybe
have plants.  But
too often used as a
closet.
Generous setback and
nice relationship
between the building
and the public walkway.
Feels like all the design
effort and money was
spent on the corner
element.
material
differentiation is
not working,
overdesigned. 
Setback at third
and fourth levels
too much, not
mandating
cascading effect.
his aesthetic (too
many colors,
materials,
setbacks) will
become dated
pretty quickly
Suffers from
exuberance
of materials
flexible
zoning for
activated
pedestrian
realm
Allow uses that
truly activate a
space (coffee
kiosk, outdoor
seating)
Human scale
uses that does
not require
license like
traditional retail
Articulation needs
to be more uniform:
less at the upper
levels and more at
the ground level. 
Color
palette in
not very
exciting
Greater
setback width
at ground floor
retail frontages.
Setbacks
overused
Setbacks for
setback's
sake is
absurd
Windows too
receded, have
windows and
doors get most
design elemnt
Cascading setbacks
and building
articulation give the
building an
appealing texture,
but may have gone a
bit too far.
Windows are more
expensive than
facade, meet
daylighting
standards but not
overly exceed,
discourage bigger
Windows - not so
much bigger; trim.
Architectural
detailing focused
on windows.
make windows
FEEL bigger
with trim and
other detailing,
get better
aesthetic 
Not
addressing
signage
requirements
no examples of
4 -6 story range
- additional
elements to
consider
how we can enable
good way finding
through design and
ensure that retail has the
ability to customize in a
way that is cohesive with
the look and feel of the
building.

--- page 120 ---
With housing going
up on 5th Street, how
does design
incorporate train
noise, open spaces,
and residential areas?
With the Housing
Element and General
Plan, spaces will be
different years from now -
how can we design now
as the community grows
and develops?
Community Meeting
There are varying degrees of
flexibility in ODS - how will this
be considered and how can
developers meet those
parameters?
Ex: Palo Alto has two different
ways of evaluating projects
GENERAL COMMENTS 
Some ODS for smaller
developments can be
cost prohibitive.
Developments of 5-6
units should have
different requirements
than large developments
How can all of San
Mateo have a sense of
place, and not just the
Downtown?
Flexibility is key,
especially for smaller
developments!
San Mateo is missing
middle housing
Standards should not
be one-size-fits-all
Allow option for
alternate design/
approval process
Example: Palo Alto, San
Carlos 
Overall
1. Does building wall variation result in a
building feeling appearing less massive?
What is the right amount? Can there be too
much?
2. What is the best way for the roof form to
reduce the apparent massing? What forms
are most effective?
3. What other techniques can reduce
massing? Are colors/materials effective?
Other?
REDUCING MASSING
Would like to see projects
that can coexist with
existing neighborhoods -
more compatibility
(especially with windows -
right now there is a lot of
glazing in contemporary
windows/developments)
Like:
stepbacks
stoops
eyes to the streets
parking in back of
projects
Want standards that
address how building
aesthetics relate to other
surrounding buildings, for
example, we have art deco
buildings Downtown that
surrounded by "modern"
designs
How can massing
breaks be applied
 to duplexes and
fourplexes? Can
they be simplified
to address
affordability?
Incorporate
traditional
neighborhood
elements into
new
developments
Mixed-use buildings in
Downtown are seeing a
push to 5 story buildings,
concerned about massing,
losing the sun and
increased shading
because of larger buildings
Incorporate solar/
roof gardens/
community gardens
on roofs
Environmental
aspects of
construction
should be
considered
Need setbacks in
Downtown area.
Use other cities
that have done
this well as
examples.
wall offsets
break up
massing
For roof area of
stebacks: would
like to utilize that
space for decks/
patios/open space
Want bolder, braver
design (especially in
Downtown). San
Mateo should be a
world class city.
More
allowance for
flexibility in
architectural
styles 
Upper story setbacks
that face adjacent low
rise residential buildings
can be problematic,
adjacent residents may
feel they are being
observed from above
and losing privacy.
Don't like big
box feel of
new
developments
Some articulation/color/
design elements can get
out of control, let's avoid
that
Use the Duplex
Design
Guidelines as a
guide
1. Reducing Massing
Recent projects are large
compared to single-family/
duplex neighborhoods. There
is currently no buffering
between them and there is a
lack of transition from single-
family homes to larger
developments
A buffer area
between town homes
would be great.
Example of this: Bay
Meadows
What creates a good transition to
an immediately adjacent building?  
-Step backs?
-Greater setbacks for all stories?
 -Landscape screening?
 -Other?
GOOD TRANSITIONS
Currently a lack of
transition between
existing and new
developments.  
Could townhomes
act as a transition?
Don't lean on
landscaping as a
transitional element for
smaller developments
because the
landscaping doesn't
always happen
Like: Stepping
down and
transitioning
through building
itself rather than
landscaping 
More transitional
architecture in
Downtown. For example, 
180 E 3rd Street has a
balance between new
construction and
maintaining historic
architecture
Incorporate historic
architecture into new
developments, including
classic design and
decorative elements that
reflect the historic nature
of development in San
Mateo
Need design
standards related
to landscaping
maintenance
Take cues from
existing buildings
(especially in
downtown) to
maintain
neighborhood
compatibility 
2. Good Transitions
1. Should certain types of open
space – passive vs. active – be
required?
2. What amenities are desired?
3. What kinds of open space
should be prioritized, such as
communal space (common) or
individual (private)?
OPEN SPACE
Would like to see
more open space
where people of
different ages can
gather
I live next door to a single
family home that squished a
ADU in the back yard leaving
approx. a 5ft x 15ft yard for
each resident (front and
back). I wish they had pulled
down the whole lot and done
a 2-4 townhome with a
permeable paving driveway
and nice balconies
How can open space
be most usable? A
high quality shared
space vs. small
individual yards?
Blue bottle coffee in Bay
Meadows is a good example of
looking good on paper for
people mingling - but in reality it
is a real wind tunnel.  Not a very
pleasant place to hang out,
which is a shame.  Some wind
studies beforehand might have
helped (however Climate
change may be upending that!)
More trees! San
Mateo is losing a lot
of trees through
densification and
storms. Can San
Mateo become a
Tree City?
More porous paving and
storm swales on-site to
soak up water and offer
planting areas for the
residents (community
gardens or even raised
beds) to promote self
sufficiency
Look
internationally
for inspiration 
more common
open space 
Separate
children's play
areas from open
space areas for
adults
concerned about
construction of only
new buildings and
no open space
Incorporate as much
green space/nature
into projects as
possible, and don't
just build buildings
right to the street!
all residential
landscaping
should be
setback and
publicly visible
Wind tunnel effect
is real, especially
downtown -
design for this
and perform wind
studies
3. Open Space
1. What makes an entry residential in
character?
   Stoop, porch, landscaping, meeting the
   street, overhead projection, window,
   door type?
2. Should paseos be used to break down
the size/scale of blocks and provide
pedestrian walkways? Do we like them and
if so, would we like to see more?
PEDESTRIAN CONNECTIONS
Paseos can help
break down mass
of building. Have
them be more
integrated
Keep pedestrian
access on B
street in
Downtown
Pedestrian access
from Caltrain
node to 3rd street
and Central Park
are key design
areas
Paseos act as a way to
get back and forth
between buildings/
places, and can reduce
reliance on cars. Even
better if they connect to
transit.
More emphasis
on the public/
pedestrian realm
and public/
pedestrian
spaces
Paseos are
helpful 
Let’s look at other
cities that do well
with wide
sidewalks,
landscaping, and
building frontages 
I have this crazy idea
that North Central could
have cars on the
perimeter with trees and
walking in the streets...
little buses to get us into
the City and to our cars...
Prioritize
accessibility
without cars 
Paseos sound great, but “Main
Street” seems to have fallen
flat. Nice in photos, sad in
reality.
Would it be possible to have
more alleys and walkways that
have delight and discovery,
greenery, cafes, seating areas,
small scale retail etc...
4. Pedestrian Connections

--- page 121 ---
1. Does building wall variation result in a
building feeling appearing less massive?
What is the right amount? Can there be too
much?
2. What is the best way for the roof form to
reduce the apparent massing? What forms
are most effective?
3. What other techniques can reduce
massing? Are colors/materials effective?
Other?
REDUCING MASSING
Would like to see projects
that can coexist with
existing neighborhoods -
more compatibility
(especially with windows -
right now there is a lot of
glazing in contemporary
windows/developments)
Like:
stepbacks
stoops
eyes to the streets
parking in back of
projects
Want standards that
address how building
aesthetics relate to other
surrounding buildings, for
example, we have art deco
buildings Downtown that
surrounded by "modern"
designs
How can massing
breaks be applied
 to duplexes and
fourplexes? Can
they be simplified
to address
affordability?
Incorporate
traditional
neighborhood
elements into
new
developments
Mixed-use buildings in
Downtown are seeing a
push to 5 story buildings,
concerned about massing,
losing the sun and
increased shading
because of larger buildings
Incorporate solar/
roof gardens/
community gardens
on roofs
Environmental
aspects of
construction
should be
considered
Need setbacks in
Downtown area.
Use other cities
that have done
this well as
examples.
wall offsets
break up
massing
For roof area of
stebacks: would
like to utilize that
space for decks/
patios/open space
Want bolder, braver
design (especially in
Downtown). San
Mateo should be a
world class city.
More
allowance for
flexibility in
architectural
styles 
Upper story setbacks
that face adjacent low
rise residential buildings
can be problematic,
adjacent residents may
feel they are being
observed from above
and losing privacy.
Don't like big
box feel of
new
developments
Some articulation/color/
design elements can get
out of control, let's avoid
that
Use the Duplex
Design
Guidelines as a
guide
1. Reducing Massing

--- page 122 ---
Recent projects are large
compared to single-family/
duplex neighborhoods. There
is currently no buffering
between them and there is a
lack of transition from single-
family homes to larger
developments
A buffer area
between town homes
would be great.
Example of this: Bay
Meadows
What creates a good transition to
an immediately adjacent building?  
-Step backs?
-Greater setbacks for all stories?
 -Landscape screening?
 -Other?
GOOD TRANSITIONS
Currently a lack of
transition between
existing and new
developments.  
Could townhomes
act as a transition?
Don't lean on
landscaping as a
transitional element for
smaller developments
because the
landscaping doesn't
always happen
Like: Stepping
down and
transitioning
through building
itself rather than
landscaping 
More transitional
architecture in
Downtown. For example, 
180 E 3rd Street has a
balance between new
construction and
maintaining historic
architecture
Incorporate historic
architecture into new
developments, including
classic design and
decorative elements that
reflect the historic nature
of development in San
Mateo
Need design
standards related
to landscaping
maintenance
Take cues from
existing buildings
(especially in
downtown) to
maintain
neighborhood
compatibility 
2. Good Transitions

--- page 123 ---
1. Should certain types of open
space – passive vs. active – be
required?
2. What amenities are desired?
3. What kinds of open space
should be prioritized, such as
communal space (common) or
individual (private)?
OPEN SPACE
Would like to see
more open space
where people of
different ages can
gather
I live next door to a single
family home that squished a
ADU in the back yard leaving
approx. a 5ft x 15ft yard for
each resident (front and
back). I wish they had pulled
down the whole lot and done
a 2-4 townhome with a
permeable paving driveway
and nice balconies
How can open space
be most usable? A
high quality shared
space vs. small
individual yards?
Blue bottle coffee in Bay
Meadows is a good example of
looking good on paper for
people mingling - but in reality it
is a real wind tunnel.  Not a very
pleasant place to hang out,
which is a shame.  Some wind
studies beforehand might have
helped (however Climate
change may be upending that!)
More trees! San
Mateo is losing a lot
of trees through
densification and
storms. Can San
Mateo become a
Tree City?
More porous paving and
storm swales on-site to
soak up water and offer
planting areas for the
residents (community
gardens or even raised
beds) to promote self
sufficiency
Look
internationally
for inspiration 
more common
open space 
Separate
children's play
areas from open
space areas for
adults
concerned about
construction of only
new buildings and
no open space
Incorporate as much
green space/nature
into projects as
possible, and don't
just build buildings
right to the street!
all residential
landscaping
should be
setback and
publicly visible
Wind tunnel effect
is real, especially
downtown -
design for this
and perform wind
studies
3. Open Space

--- page 124 ---
1. What makes an entry residential in
character?
   Stoop, porch, landscaping, meeting the
   street, overhead projection, window,
   door type?
2. Should paseos be used to break down
the size/scale of blocks and provide
pedestrian walkways? Do we like them and
if so, would we like to see more?
PEDESTRIAN CONNECTIONS
Paseos can help
break down mass
of building. Have
them be more
integrated
Keep pedestrian
access on B
street in
Downtown
Pedestrian access
from Caltrain
node to 3rd street
and Central Park
are key design
areas
Paseos act as a way to
get back and forth
between buildings/
places, and can reduce
reliance on cars. Even
better if they connect to
transit.
More emphasis
on the public/
pedestrian realm
and public/
pedestrian
spaces
Paseos are
helpful 
Let’s look at other
cities that do well
with wide
sidewalks,
landscaping, and
building frontages 
I have this crazy idea
that North Central could
have cars on the
perimeter with trees and
walking in the streets...
little buses to get us into
the City and to our cars...
Prioritize
accessibility
without cars 
Paseos sound great, but “Main
Street” seems to have fallen
flat. Nice in photos, sad in
reality.
Would it be possible to have
more alleys and walkways that
have delight and discovery,
greenery, cafes, seating areas,
small scale retail etc...
4. Pedestrian Connections

--- page 125 ---
Developer's Roundtable
Improvements can
be made to the plan
submittal process
-streamlined process
for public vs. private
improvements
FLEXIBILITY = KEY
Sites have unique qualities that
you want to celebrate, certain
sites have various aspects and
adjacencies - finding where
everything meshes in terms of
affordability, construction,
development is key.
Standards need to
be consistent with
each other 
When density
bonus law is
implemented -
there will still need
to be room for
flexibility
GENERAL COMMENTS 
Have to be careful to
not go overboard ->
when requirements look
good on paper they
don't always work when
you design a site, ex: 3
different rules that don't
mesh
If a project can't meet
enough of the
standards then a
developer might have
to drop a project, ODS
should not constrain
projects.
Overall
1. Does building wall variation result in a
building feeling appearing less massive?
What is the right amount? Can there be too
much?
2. What is the best way for the roof form to
reduce the apparent massing? What forms
are most effective?
3. What other techniques can reduce
massing? Are colors/materials effective?
Other?
REDUCING MASSING
Relate density to
design
standards
Standards for
single-family
homes should be
different from
standards for a
type 3 building
There should be
height limits for
parking and single-
family homes 
To reduce massing there
needs to be a rhythm to the
building. Something needs
to catch your eye when you
approach the building, ex:
Positive or negative space,
roof deck highlighted with
lighting so you can see from
a distance
Balconies can
achieve rhythm
(not when
adjacent to
freeway)
The best place for
transitions is at the
podium level when you
transition from concrete
to wood, depending on
site. This  might be 3
levels/2/1 level of
concrete.
Best not to prescribe
at what level to have a
stepback in order to
maintain flexibility
Break the massing
where it makes sense
depending on
construction type and
site
Roofs: flat roof with
parapet around it makes
the most sense - you can
get as many units as
possible and are able to
put solar and equipment
on roof, without adding
mass (like pitched roof)
Challenge with legacy
properties: single-
family home zoned in
higher density, how do
you marry those two?
Reconciliation needs
to happen
Use all the space you
have for transitions to
be successful, and to
be able to control the
property
-sensitivity to plazas/
transitions
-height transitions
Upper level
stepbacks are
harder to achieve
and require
alternative
structural systems
Something that has
worked well: specifying
that unit balconies are
able to count as wall
breaks
For wall breaks, giving a
realistic range of when the
breaks or wall plane
stepbacks need to happen is
helpful. Realistically you can't
have a stepback every unit 
(or every two units)
You should not
incorporate
balconies next to
train tracks as they
are not desirable
for residents
1. Reducing Massing
What creates a good transition to
an immediately adjacent building?  
-Step backs?
-Greater setbacks for all stories?
 -Landscape screening?
 -Other?
GOOD TRANSITIONS
Transitions (that
reduce number of
units) can be a
direct conflict with
Density Bonus law
With setback
requirements/wedding
cake, developments
can't always meet
residential square
footage requirements
Transitions can
sometimes
reconfigure the
space and open up
more open space
2. Good Transitions
1. What does the market prefer -
passive vs. active? How does it
differ between mixed-use vs.
residential and for sale vs.
rental?
2. What amenities are desired?
3. What would make it easier to
provide open space in a project -
location, size, other factors?
OPEN SPACE
Amenities:
pool, hot tub,
bbq space
For small sites, less
than 2-acres, you
usually need to use
all the space
leaving little room
for open space 
Flexibility is
required to achieve
a mix of Internal
active recreation
space and quiet
open space 
Public open space is
always hardest to
provide, always at grade
level and this really
reduces what you're able
to do in terms of
providing housing above.
Limits the site and can be
very problematic
Avoid dictating
the exact number
of square feet for
private and
common space
Mix of public and
private space
depends on site
constraints
Different sites/
developments
require different
amenities:
apartments may
have pool, condos
have lower density
Recommend against
requiring every unit
to have private open
space - can't always
meet indoor
requirements with
patio doors
How can communal
space create great
places rather than
creating more
project constraints?
Prescribed at grade
open spaces/plazas
are very difficult to
achieve and can't
always be
accommodated
At grade level open
space reduces what
you're able to do in
terms of providing
housing above
3. Open Space
1. What makes an entry residential in
character?
   Stoop, porch, landscaping, meeting the
   street, overhead projection, window,
   door type?
2. Should paseos be used to break down
the size/scale of blocks and provide
pedestrian walkways? Do we like them and
if so, would we like to see more?
PEDESTRIAN CONNECTIONS
If paseos don't
connect to anything
they don't really
make sense - they
need to connect to
something
Stoops and
overhangs
where sidewalks
are walkable
Paseos don't
always make
sense because
they reduce
yield for site
Paseo makes
sense on site that
needs more than
one podium -
paseo between
buildings 
Maintain the urban
fabric of the
existing area 
Residential entries
are site/
neighborhood
specific and will
vary what you can
do with sidewalks
and street trees
Entries on corners
maximize visibility.
There should be
something to
highlight the
second floor as well
Anything that's
one acre
needs a paseo
going through
it
4. Pedestrian Connections

--- page 126 ---
1. Does building wall variation result in a
building feeling appearing less massive?
What is the right amount? Can there be too
much?
2. What is the best way for the roof form to
reduce the apparent massing? What forms
are most effective?
3. What other techniques can reduce
massing? Are colors/materials effective?
Other?
REDUCING MASSING
Relate density to
design
standards
Standards for
single-family
homes should be
different from
standards for a
type 3 building
There should be
height limits for
parking and single-
family homes 
To reduce massing there
needs to be a rhythm to the
building. Something needs
to catch your eye when you
approach the building, ex:
Positive or negative space,
roof deck highlighted with
lighting so you can see from
a distance
Balconies can
achieve rhythm
(not when
adjacent to
freeway)
The best place for
transitions is at the
podium level when you
transition from concrete
to wood, depending on
site. This  might be 3
levels/2/1 level of
concrete.
Best not to prescribe
at what level to have a
stepback in order to
maintain flexibility
Break the massing
where it makes sense
depending on
construction type and
site
Roofs: flat roof with
parapet around it makes
the most sense - you can
get as many units as
possible and are able to
put solar and equipment
on roof, without adding
mass (like pitched roof)
Challenge with legacy
properties: single-
family home zoned in
higher density, how do
you marry those two?
Reconciliation needs
to happen
Use all the space you
have for transitions to
be successful, and to
be able to control the
property
-sensitivity to plazas/
transitions
-height transitions
Upper level
stepbacks are
harder to achieve
and require
alternative
structural systems
Something that has
worked well: specifying
that unit balconies are
able to count as wall
breaks
For wall breaks, giving a
realistic range of when the
breaks or wall plane
stepbacks need to happen is
helpful. Realistically you can't
have a stepback every unit 
(or every two units)
You should not
incorporate
balconies next to
train tracks as they
are not desirable
for residents
1. Reducing Massing

--- page 127 ---
What creates a good transition to
an immediately adjacent building?  
-Step backs?
-Greater setbacks for all stories?
 -Landscape screening?
 -Other?
GOOD TRANSITIONS
Transitions (that
reduce number of
units) can be a
direct conflict with
Density Bonus law
With setback
requirements/wedding
cake, developments
can't always meet
residential square
footage requirements
Transitions can
sometimes
reconfigure the
space and open up
more open space
2. Good Transitions

--- page 128 ---
1. What does the market prefer -
passive vs. active? How does it
differ between mixed-use vs.
residential and for sale vs.
rental?
2. What amenities are desired?
3. What would make it easier to
provide open space in a project -
location, size, other factors?
OPEN SPACE
Amenities:
pool, hot tub,
bbq space
For small sites, less
than 2-acres, you
usually need to use
all the space
leaving little room
for open space 
Flexibility is
required to achieve
a mix of Internal
active recreation
space and quiet
open space 
Public open space is
always hardest to
provide, always at grade
level and this really
reduces what you're able
to do in terms of
providing housing above.
Limits the site and can be
very problematic
Avoid dictating
the exact number
of square feet for
private and
common space
Mix of public and
private space
depends on site
constraints
Different sites/
developments
require different
amenities:
apartments may
have pool, condos
have lower density
Recommend against
requiring every unit
to have private open
space - can't always
meet indoor
requirements with
patio doors
How can communal
space create great
places rather than
creating more
project constraints?
Prescribed at grade
open spaces/plazas
are very difficult to
achieve and can't
always be
accommodated
At grade level open
space reduces what
you're able to do in
terms of providing
housing above
3. Open Space

--- page 129 ---
1. What makes an entry residential in
character?
   Stoop, porch, landscaping, meeting the
   street, overhead projection, window,
   door type?
2. Should paseos be used to break down
the size/scale of blocks and provide
pedestrian walkways? Do we like them and
if so, would we like to see more?
PEDESTRIAN CONNECTIONS
If paseos don't
connect to anything
they don't really
make sense - they
need to connect to
something
Stoops and
overhangs
where sidewalks
are walkable
Paseos don't
always make
sense because
they reduce
yield for site
Paseo makes
sense on site that
needs more than
one podium -
paseo between
buildings 
Maintain the urban
fabric of the
existing area 
Residential entries
are site/
neighborhood
specific and will
vary what you can
do with sidewalks
and street trees
Entries on corners
maximize visibility.
There should be
something to
highlight the
second floor as well
Anything that's
one acre
needs a paseo
going through
it
4. Pedestrian Connections

--- page 130 ---
Planning Commission Special Meeting Minutes – 8/8/23 
1 
 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
John Ebneter, Chair 
Seema Patel, Vice Chair 
Adam Nugent 
Martin Wiggins 
Margaret Williams 
 
City of San Mateo 
Special Meeting Minutes 
Planning Commission 
 
Tuesday, August 8, 2023 
Hybrid 6:00 PM 
Special Meeting 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
 
CALL TO ORDER  
 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
ROLL CALL 
Present:  
Chair John Ebneter, Vice Chair Seema Patel, Commissioners Adam Nugent, Martin Wiggins, and Margaret 
Williams 
Absent:  
None 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  
None. 
 
PUBLIC HEARING 
1. Zoning Code Amendment for Planning Approval Extensions - Ordinance Recommendation 
Principal, Julia Klein, presented an overview of the Ordinance recommendation.  
        
Commissioner Questions:  
Commissioners asked clarifying questions on the entitlement timeline, sunset date, and staff level approval. 
 
Public Comments:  
Public commenters, Michael Grubb and Rick Sakuda expressed concern for the Ordinance due to displacement of 
businesses, vacancies, extended timelines, and staff level approval. 
 
Commissioner Comments:  
Staff provided a response to expressed concerns. All Commissioners expressed support for the Ordinance 
recommendation. 
 
The Commission moved to recommend to the City Council adoption of an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal 
Code Section 27.08.087 (Planning Approval Extension) to allow for extensions of up to two years for approved 
planning application; and determine the amendment is exempt from further environmental review pursuant to 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Section 15061(b)(3). 
 
Moved: 
Wiggins, Seconded: Patel 
Ayes: 
Ebneter, Patel, Nugent, Wiggins, Williams 
Noes: 
None 
Absent:  
None 
 
STUDY SESSION 
2. Draft Objective Design Standards for Multi-Family and Mixed-Use Residential Developments (PA-2019-016) 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6F65F201-0744-4509-AD92-135625800268

--- page 131 ---
Planning Commission Special Meeting Minutes – 8/8/23 
2 
 
The City’s consultant, Laura Stetson (MIG, Inc.), presented an overview of the Draft Objective Design Standards 
along with Associate Planner Laura Richstone. 
 
Commissioner Questions: 
Commissioners asked clarifying questions on the implementation of Objective Design Standards (ODS), adherence to 
current and upcoming projects, discretionary design review, waivers and concessions, public input, zoning 
documentation, historical design standards, floor area ratio (FAR), colors, window materials, rooftop lighting, 
building materials, sustainability, private open spaces, and vision of the gateway specific plan area standards. 
 
Public Comments: 
Public Commenters, Laurie Watanuki, Davis Crabbe, and George expressed concern for the Draft Objective Design 
Standards that included open space, lighting, architectural styles, neighborhood preservation and protection, 
historical preservation, demolition, and Heritage Tree preservation. Ms. Watanuki and George suggested alignment 
with the City of Santa Barbara’s Objective Design Standards. 
 
Commissioner Comments: 
Commissioners discussed concerns about massing and articulation elements, such as stepbacks, façades, corner 
treatments, roof variation, and raised residential units from sidewalks. Further concerns with prohibiting affordable 
materials, such as vinyl, a 50% hardscape limit in open spaces, the possibility of too many plaza areas, ways in which 
to activate plaza areas, a concern that the document might be too flexible, and a suggestion to tighten constraints 
and to add architectural styles were also discussed.  Concerns about the architectural styles of recent and upcoming 
buildings within downtown and a suggestion for downtown projects to be consistent with the styles of downtown 
and downtown historic district were also raised. 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Planning Manager, Manira Sandhir, provided updates on items for future Planning Commission meetings. There were no 
other reports from Commissioners or the City Attorney. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
The meeting adjourned at 10:54 pm. 
 
 
APPROVED BY: 
 
 
 
___________________________________ 
John Ebneter, Chair 
 
 
 
SUBMITTED BY: 
 
 
 
___________________________________ 
Ashley Snodgrass, Administrative Assistant 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6F65F201-0744-4509-AD92-135625800268

--- page 132 ---
Certificate Of Completion
Envelope Id: 6F65F20107444509AD92135625800268
Status: Completed
Subject: Please DocuSign: Planning Commission Special Meeting Minutes 8.08.2023.docx
Source Envelope: 
Document Pages: 2
Signatures: 2
Envelope Originator: 
Certificate Pages: 5
Initials: 0
Ashley Snodgrass
AutoNav: Enabled
EnvelopeId Stamping: Enabled
Time Zone: (UTC-08:00) Pacific Time (US & Canada)
330 W. 20th Avenue
City Clerk's Office
San Mateo, CA  94403
asnodgrass@cityofsanmateo.org
IP Address: 76.14.0.98     
Record Tracking
Status: Original
             9/28/2023 10:14:16 AM
Holder: Ashley Snodgrass
             asnodgrass@cityofsanmateo.org
Location: DocuSign
Signer Events
Signature
Timestamp
Ashley Snodgrass
asnodgrass@cityofsanmateo.org
Administrative Assistant Community Development
City of San Mateo
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Signature Adoption: Pre-selected Style
Using IP Address: 76.14.0.98
Sent: 9/28/2023 10:16:09 AM
Viewed: 9/28/2023 10:16:15 AM 
Signed: 9/28/2023 10:16:20 AM
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Not Offered via DocuSign
John Ebneter
jebneter@cityofsanmateo.org
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Signature Adoption: Pre-selected Style
Using IP Address: 98.210.221.154
Sent: 9/28/2023 10:16:21 AM
Viewed: 10/3/2023 9:13:11 AM 
Signed: 10/3/2023 9:13:18 AM
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Accepted: 10/3/2023 9:13:11 AM
      ID: cc9e99f0-15a2-487b-ac26-42c019ce510d
In Person Signer Events
Signature
Timestamp
Editor Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Agent Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Intermediary Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Certified Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Carbon Copy Events
Status
Timestamp
Witness Events
Signature
Timestamp
Notary Events
Signature
Timestamp
Envelope Summary Events
Status
Timestamps
Envelope Sent
Hashed/Encrypted
9/28/2023 10:16:09 AM
Certified Delivered
Security Checked
10/3/2023 9:13:11 AM

--- page 133 ---
Envelope Summary Events
Status
Timestamps
Signing Complete
Security Checked
10/3/2023 9:13:18 AM
Completed
Security Checked
10/3/2023 9:13:18 AM
Payment Events
Status
Timestamps
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure

--- page 134 ---
CONSUMER DISCLOSURE
From time to time, Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo (we, us or Company) may be required by
law to provide to you certain written notices or disclosures. Described below are the terms and
conditions for providing to you such notices and disclosures electronically through the
DocuSign, Inc. (DocuSign) electronic signing system. Please read the information below
carefully and thoroughly, and if you can access this information electronically to your
satisfaction and agree to these terms and conditions, please confirm your agreement by clicking
the ‘I agree’ button at the bottom of this document. 
Getting paper copies
At any time, you may request from us a paper copy of any record provided or made available
electronically to you by us. You will have the ability to download and print documents we send
to you through the DocuSign system during and immediately after signing session and, if you
elect to create a DocuSign signer account, you may access them for a limited period of time
(usually 30 days) after such documents are first sent to you. After such time, if you wish for us to
send you paper copies of any such documents from our office to you, you will be charged a
$0.00 per-page fee. You may request delivery of such paper copies from us by following the
procedure described below. 
Withdrawing your consent 
If you decide to receive notices and disclosures from us electronically, you may at any time
change your mind and tell us that thereafter you want to receive required notices and disclosures
only in paper format. How you must inform us of your decision to receive future notices and
disclosure in paper format and withdraw your consent to receive notices and disclosures
electronically is described below. 
Consequences of changing your mind
If you elect to receive required notices and disclosures only in paper format, it will slow the
speed at which we can complete certain steps in transactions with you and delivering services to
you because we will need first to send the required notices or disclosures to you in paper format,
and then wait until we receive back from you your acknowledgment of your receipt of such
paper notices or disclosures. To indicate to us that you are changing your mind, you must
withdraw your consent using the DocuSign ‘Withdraw Consent’ form on the signing page of a
DocuSign envelope instead of signing it. This will indicate to us that you have withdrawn your
consent to receive required notices and disclosures electronically from us and you will no longer
be able to use the DocuSign system to receive required notices and consents electronically from
us or to sign electronically documents from us. 
All notices and disclosures will be sent to you electronically
Unless you tell us otherwise in accordance with the procedures described herein, we will provide
electronically to you through the DocuSign system all required notices, disclosures,
authorizations, acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be provided or
made available to you during the course of our relationship with you. To reduce the chance of
you inadvertently not receiving any notice or disclosure, we prefer to provide all of the required
notices and disclosures to you by the same method and to the same address that you have given
us. Thus, you can receive all the disclosures and notices electronically or in paper format through
the paper mail delivery system. If you do not agree with this process, please let us know as
described below. Please also see the paragraph immediately above that describes the
consequences of your electing not to receive delivery of the notices and disclosures
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure created on: 6/13/2017 8:08:23 AM
Parties agreed to: John Ebneter

--- page 135 ---
electronically from us. 
How to contact Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo:
You may contact us to let us know of your changes as to how we may contact you electronically,
to request paper copies of certain information from us, and to withdraw your prior consent to
receive notices and disclosures electronically as follows:
 To contact us by email send messages to: cravi@cityofsanmateo.org
To advise Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo of your new e-mail address 
To let us know of a change in your e-mail address where we should send notices and disclosures
electronically to you, you must send an email message to us at cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in
the body of such request you must state: your previous e-mail address, your new e-mail address.  
We do not require any other information from you to change your email address..  
In addition, you must notify DocuSign, Inc. to arrange for your new email address to be reflected
in your DocuSign account by following the process for changing e-mail in the DocuSign system. 
To request paper copies from Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo
To request delivery from us of paper copies of the notices and disclosures previously provided
by us to you electronically, you must send us an e-mail to cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in the
body of such request you must state your e-mail address, full name, US Postal address, and
telephone number. We will bill you for any fees at that time, if any.
To withdraw your consent with Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo
To inform us that you no longer want to receive future notices and disclosures in electronic
format you may:
i. decline to sign a document from within your DocuSign session, and on the subsequent
page, select the check-box indicating you wish to withdraw your consent, or you may;
ii. send us an e-mail to cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in the body of such request you
must state your e-mail, full name, US Postal Address, and telephone number. We do not
need any other information from you to withdraw consent..  The consequences of your
withdrawing consent for online documents will be that transactions may take a longer time
to process.. 
Required hardware and software
Operating Systems: 
Windows® 2000, Windows® XP, Windows
Vista®; Mac OS® X 
Browsers: 
Final release versions of Internet Explorer® 6.0
or above (Windows only); Mozilla Firefox 2.0
or above (Windows and Mac); Safari™ 3.0 or
above (Mac only) 
PDF Reader: 
Acrobat® or similar software may be required
to view and print PDF files 
Screen Resolution: 
800 x 600 minimum 
Enabled Security Settings: 
Allow per session cookies
 
** These minimum requirements are subject to change. If these requirements change, you will be
asked to re-accept the disclosure. Pre-release (e.g. beta) versions of operating systems and
browsers are not supported. 
Acknowledging your access and consent to receive materials electronically

--- page 136 ---
To confirm to us that you can access this information electronically, which will be similar to
other electronic notices and disclosures that we will provide to you, please verify that you were
able to read this electronic disclosure and that you also were able to print on paper or
electronically save this page for your future reference and access or that you were able to e-mail
this disclosure and consent to an address where you will be able to print on paper or save it for
your future reference and access. Further, if you consent to receiving notices and disclosures
exclusively in electronic format on the terms and conditions described above, please let us know
by clicking the ‘I agree’ button below. 
By checking the ‘I agree’ box, I confirm that: 
•
I can access and read this Electronic CONSENT TO ELECTRONIC RECEIPT OF
ELECTRONIC CONSUMER DISCLOSURES document; and
 
•
I can print on paper the disclosure or save or send the disclosure to a place where I can
print it, for future reference and access; and
 
•
Until or unless I notify Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo as described above, I consent to
receive from exclusively through electronic means all notices, disclosures, authorizations,
acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be provided or made
available to me by  Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo during the course of my
relationship with you.

--- page 137 ---
*Some properties lie within the boundaries of more than
one specific plan. The hatched areas indicate where more
ae es is nformationdin ra
. For precise specific plan bounderiés, consult the | I } I
Maas = wu! a

Po ™,
. it ~
\ aie
‘ Pal
ter
aol
Fy *
eR
¥ oy
Y 4
fl
iy
r
YM ‘
/ OLA
‘ ““
* a
Ny
/
4

KEY

EE Downtown Plan Area*
HS El Camino Real Master Plan Area*
ME Hillsdale Station Area

(Mariner's sland Specific Plan Area

EE Mid and South El Camino Real Fernwood St
>) san Mateo Rail Corridor Transit Oriented P

Development Plan Area* i y Ss
GE Vision of the Gateway* a Ds tt

\ [| City of San Mateo Boundary aml
[|] Neighborhood Jurisdiction Source:
‘ County of San Mateo Information Services Department.
City of San Mateo 2023. z
allsi q Miles

“y < Re — 4 o if4 1/2 1 1-1/2


--- page 138 ---
August 8, 2023 
Chairman Ebneter and Members of the Planning Commission,   
   
San Mateo’s Draft ODS is designed to streamline the review and approval process 
and gives the flexibility to the developers.  We need more predictability and specifics 
in the Draft ODS for the desired results.  Developers have the upper hand and can use 
Density Bonus waivers to their advantage and by-pass ODS.  The Housing 
Accountability Act also applies to a new single-family home with an ADU. New 
developments that are in the range of 2-24 units “middle housing” should be included 
in these Draft ODS.  We would like your support for the San Mateo Heritage Alliance 
letter of August 3, 2023.  
SM Heritage Alliance would like to see these elements from the Santa Barbara ODS 
included in the San Mateo ODS. 
1. 
San Mateo needs ODS goals similar to the Santa Barbara ODS.   Santa 
Barbara ODS Goals are the following:  
•
Increase Predictability and confidence in the process with consistent 
expectations for desirable results. 
•
Promote a Livable City by supporting diverse housing types that 
engage the streetscape to create a vibrant and walkable community. 
•
Respect the Context of Santa Barbara's existing built and natural 
environment with buildings and design that reflect the City's vision of 
exemplary architecture. 
•
Create a Visual Language to better communicate local standards with 
photographs, illustrations, maps, and tables in a catalog of agreed-upon 
designs. 	 	

2. 
Architectural Building Designs- The Draft San Mateo ODS do not address 
architectural building designs.  The ODS should include:  Timeless Design Principles, 
building mass divided into 1/3’s vertically and horizontally, windows with 4 inch insets, 
windows that are taller than wide, and windows that are stacked vertically.   
 
1
**Received 8/15/2023

--- page 139 ---
3. 
Best Practices - Avoid “fast fashion” trendy designs; design quiet buildings not 
shouting for attention; use simple massing and avoid the wedding cake design; select 
uniform materials like brick and stucco. Take cues from the existing buildings in the 
Downtown Historic District and the surrounding neighborhoods.  
4. 
Urban Design Considerations:  Re-examine current daylight plane policy since 
there is confusion among developers.  Emphasize special corner treatment of 
buildings.  Glass corners in contemporary buildings creates dead space.  Excellent 
examples of corner tower treatments in the Downtown are the Merkel’s Building and 
Wursthall Restaurant on B Street.  
5. 
Demolition Permits – Demolition permits should be issued at the same time 
as building permits, and not before. The building permit should be substantially 
completed and draft permits provided to applicants if pre-construction testing is 
required before the building permit is issued. 
6. 
Project Design Review - Proposed projects in the Downtown and surrounding 
neighborhoods need Project Design Review by a qualified historic preservation 
architect/consultant on all proposed projects for compatibility and timeless design 
principles. The effects of the new building on historic context should be evaluated. 
Determine whether the new building would have a significant impact on the historic 
nature of the existing buildings.  
7.
Building types and transitions: We need a transition zone between single 
family homes to the higher density housing range.  For example the Block 20 project 
on 5th Avenue and Delaware could have been a transition zone to the homes.  There 
is too much height difference between a residential neighborhood and building to 75 
feet.  A transitional zone of townhomes would have been ideal. The upper level of new 
commercial mixed-use developments with decks and set-backs can create privacy, 
shade, and wind issues for adjacent residential neighborhoods.  
8.* 
Neighborhood preservation and protection - An Intent statement needs to 
be added to the Draft ODS for each neighborhood zone. The physical character and 
architectural styles of each neighborhood should be included.  We need to preserve 
and protect the existing pre-war homes and small duplexes in Central and North 
Central for middle- and low-income families and not have multi-family standards 
applied to a single-family home with an ADU or a duplex.  The neighborhood pre-war 
homes include Craftsmen, Spanish Revival, Tudor Revival, and Victorian styles of 
architecture on the east side of the railroad tracks. New development should include 
these styles. 
 
2

--- page 140 ---
There are the revisions to the Draft ODS document which we would like to make 
on Pages 40 and 41.  We do not want to promote more demolition of our smaller 
Craftsmen and pre-war homes and small duplexes on the south side of Fourth Avenue 
and the neighborhood streets between Fourth and Fifth Avenue from Delaware to S 
Amphlett Streets.  Please make these corrections to reflect the only the north side of 
Fourth Avenue and not all of Fourth Avenue and do not include the neighborhood 
streets between Fourth and Fifth Avenues from S Delaware to S Amphlett.  We want to 
preserve and protect our existing housing stock for medium and low income families.   
*Page 40 of the Draft ODS - Correction - 7.4 - Vision of the Gateway - 7.4.1 - 
Massing & Articulation  A. Set backs # 2 and #3.  B. Step backs #1 and #2  C. 
Height #1 and #2.  These policies should apply to the north side of Fourth Avenue 
only.  The south side of Fourth and neighborhood streets are predominantly smaller 
Craftsmen and pre-war homes which we would like to preserve and protect.  
*Page 40 of the Draft ODS - Correction - 7.4.2 - Windows, Doors, and Entry Design  
Residential Entries A. All of Fourth Avenue B. On neighborhood streets.  These 
policies should apply to the north side of Fourth Avenue.  Existing housing stock 
should be preserved for low income and middle income residents.  
*Page 41of the Draft ODS - Correction - 7.4.2 - Windows, Doors, Entry design.  C. 
Porches and a buffer between the residence and sidewalk.  These policies should 
apply only to the north side of Fourth Avenue.  The south side of Fourth Avenue are 
Craftsmen and prewar duplexes and deserve protection from demolition.  
9.
Architectural Styles - The Draft ODS is silent on architectural styles.  The 1989 
Building Survey shows 8 architectural styles for the neighborhoods.  There is a 
description of each style with illustrations for each. These architectural styles should 
be added to and emphasized in the Draft ODS.   
The Santa Barbara ODS is more detailed; San Mateo may not need that level of detail.  
We need an ODS which gives more details for each style such as:  architectural 
treatment for the walls, roof, windows, entry doors, porches, stoops, trellises, fences, 
front yard setbacks, and materials.  Window design compatibility - grids in the top 
window areas with mullions and divided light windows, and high-quality windows.  
Discourage large white trims around the windows and horizontal fences in traditional 
residential neighborhoods.   
The Santa Barbara ODS goes further and explains the differences between Spanish 
Colonial Revival sub-style and Italian Mediterranean Revival sub-style and shows the 
facade of each.  We need more details, drawings, and pictures in the Draft ODS to 
reflect San Mateo’s exemplary architecture. This information could be taken from the 
1989 Historic Building Report. 
 
3

--- page 141 ---
10.* Avoid total demolition:  Preserve the visible exteriors from the street of the 
existing Craftsmen, Spanish and Tudor Revival, and Victorian homes in older 
neighborhoods.   Preserve heritage trees unless they must be removed for safety or an 
alternatives analysis shows a substantially similar project cannot be built without 
removing the tree.  Follow the existing patterns in the neighborhoods.  ADU’s are 
located in the rear of properties versus the front of properties.  
11.* Building types and 2-24 Units: Duplexes and triplexes are not mentioned 
and should be included in the Draft ODS. Duplexes and triplexes need different 
treatment than 4, 6, 12, or 24 unit properties and should blend with the single-
family houses.  This document only looks at 3 types:  Low-rise, Mid-rise, and High-
rise. In the Santa Barbara ODS, there are 10 building types. The “middle housing” 
includes 2,3,4,6,12, and 24 units.  There are courtyards, 6 architectural styles, and 3 
principle categories:  Craftsmen, Mediterranean, and Mid Century Modern depending 
on the neighborhood character.  The building type needs to be compatible with the 
existing neighborhood.  
12.* Open space - Support more common open space on the ground floor with 
more trees and plantings for recreation and relaxation.  Some neighborhoods like 
Central Neighborhood do not have a neighborhood park.  A play area for children 
separate from the adult common areas is important in a development for families. 
Balconies should be added for private open space and more fresh air.  
13 
Pedestrian Connections:  Paseos create more walkability between buildings 
and create more open space in new developments.  Support more paseos on large 
parcels.  
14. 
Landscaping – Include more street trees along the residential arterials to the 
Downtown, the collectors, and local neighborhood streets to reduce the green house 
gases.  Fences of cedar, redwood, or pressure treated materials should be vertical, 
and stucco walls the same as finished walls.  
 
 
15. 
Wind and shadow studies – Wind and shadow studies are especially important 
with so many new tall buildings. The wind and shadow impacts the walkability of the 
streets.  Pedestrians like to walk on streets with sun versus shade.  
16.* Interior lighting: Some of the new offices and mixed-use developments 
buildings are designed to illuminate at night with timber architecture and this causes 
significant impacts on the surrounding residential areas.  Buildings should be 
designed to reduce the lighting impacts on nearby residents.  These impacts could 
be reduced by requiring lighting that turns off automatically with no movement.  
 
4

--- page 142 ---
Conclusion:  San Mateo deserves the best ODS. There are many distinct 
neighborhood zones.  Each zone has its own visual and physical character and 
deserves respect. 
New infill building designs need to respect existing community character, using 
established building designs found in San Mateo.   
Encourage new developments to be compatible and harmonious with building 
types and architectural styles prevalent in San Mateo. Avoid allowing design that 
stands out and is different from all others on the street. 
Incorporate above mentioned components in a revised ODS and consider the City 
of Santa Barbara as a model for San Mateo. 
Sincerely, 
Keith Weber 
Laurie Watanuki 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance 
 
5

--- page 143 ---
8/17/23, 4:34 PM
Mail - Laura Richstone - Outlook
https://outlook.office365.com/mail/inbox/id/AAQkADdjOTQ3YTBmLTY0MjEtNDdkZS1hNWJlLTdmOWZiYzcyMjFlMQAQAKOGmD0GIzhHiYCPcfSN3z…
1/2
FW: Height limits in San Mateo
Manira Sandhir <msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org>
Thu 8/17/2023 11:43 AM
To:Laura Richstone <lrichstone@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc:lstetson@migcom.com <lstetson@migcom.com>;Christine Thomson <cthomson@migcom.com>
Comment on heights and sunlight access being blocked
 
Manira Sandhir, AICP
Planning Manager and Zoning Administrator
650 522 7203 (o) | 650 242 6126 (c)
msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org
 
From: Rowan Paul 
Sent: Thursday, August 17, 2023 7:33 AM
To: Manira Sandhir <msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Height limits in San Mateo
 
Dear City of San Mateo,
 
I am very concerned about the changed building height limits for new construction.
 
Already for our East 5th avenue house. We have lost sunlight due to the new affordable housing building that
came up with more floors than was in the original design that was approved. This is very concerning for the town
if this continues.
 
For the 4th Street building that is coming up and others in the future, I am very concerned about the increased
density resulting increased traffic. Increased crime increase noise, decrease sunlight for neighborhoods, and
generally a lack of correspondingly increasing infrastructure such as parking, policing, file education, electricity,
plumbing, etc. That typically does not keep up with the density increase.
 
San Mateo is not San Francisco or San Jose. I do not want it to turn into Redwood City which has turned into a
personality deficient overcrowded downtown with significantly more crime than San Mateo.
 
Please keep the buildings below five floors, preferably one to three floors.
 
I am welcome to discussion.
 
Thank you
 
Rowan Paul, M.D.
Regenerative Orthopaedics and Sports Medicine
Rowan V Paul M.D., INC
Head Team Physician San Francisco Ballet

--- page 144 ---
8/17/23, 4:34 PM
Mail - Laura Richstone - Outlook
https://outlook.office365.com/mail/inbox/id/AAQkADdjOTQ3YTBmLTY0MjEtNDdkZS1hNWJlLTdmOWZiYzcyMjFlMQAQAKOGmD0GIzhHiYCPcfSN3z…
2/2
Assistant Professor Geisel Dartmouth School of Medicine
CHINESE PROVERB
The inferior physician treats the disease once it occurs.
The mediocre physician prevents the disease from coming back
The superior physician prevents the disease from ever occurring.
HIPAA  The information contained in this transmission may contain privileged and confidential information,
including patient information protected by federal and state privacy laws. It is intended only for the use of the
person(s) named above  If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any review,
dissemination, distribution, or duplication of this communication is strictly prohibited. If you are not the intended
recipient, please contact the sender by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message

--- page 145 ---
10/16/23, 10:57 AM Mail - Laura Richstone - Outlook

To: Laura Richstone <lrichstone@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Objective Design Standard-28/ECR

https://outlook.office365.com/mail/sentitems/id/AAMkADdjOTQ3YTBmLTYOMjEtNDdkZS1hNWJILTdmOWZiYzcyMjFIMQBGAAAAAABk62AgaWmJR... 2/2


--- page 146 ---
10/16/23, 10:57 AM
Mail - Laura Richstone - Outlook
https://outlook.office365.com/mail/sentitems/id/AAMkADdjOTQ3YTBmLTY0MjEtNDdkZS1hNWJlLTdmOWZiYzcyMjFlMQBGAAAAAABk62AgaWmJR…
1/2
Re: Objective Design Standard-28/ECR
Laura Richstone <lrichstone@cityofsanmateo.org>
Fri 10/13/2023 5:57 PM
To: Ellen Wang 
Hi Ellen, 
Apologies for the delayed response. Your comment has been received and will be included in the comment packet
that will be sent to the Planning Commission for the scheduled 10/24 Planning Commission Hearing on the
Objective Design Standards. An updated ODS document and information about upcoming meetings can be found
on our website.  
To address some our your concerns: 
This is a specific plan area that is already controlled by a separate planning document. What the ODS has done is
take those standards that are not otherwise objective and clarifying them to make them objective. We are not
adding nor removing standards.  
The specific plan area standards are intended to layer on top of the General ODS standards contained in Sections
2-6 of the document. As such, quoin treatments and/or corner cut of at least 10 ft. is already a required standard
under the General ODS standards for mid and high-rise corner treatments.   
Any tower element that a development would/could propose would still have to abide by the height limits of the
existing zoning district. No increase in height is being contemplated with ODS. 
Any water feature and/or landscaping proposed would still have to comply with the City's existing Water Efficient
Landscape Ordinance (based on State regulations). These regulations ensure such features are water efficient.
Current Building and energy efficiency code will ensure that 
Regarding sidewalks any new development would need to meet the City's pedestrian master plan which envisions
additional landscaped areas along the front of new developments. 
The City has public art regulations. Developments may either pay an in-lieu fee for public art or provide art on site.
Any public art provided on site would need to be vetted and approved by the City's Civic Art Committee to ensure
that the art fits contextually into the building and surroundings. Past Public Art can be found in this gallery.  
If you have further questions please reach out. 
Thank you, 
Laura Richstone
Associate Planner | Community Development Department
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650 522 7205 | lrichstone@cityofsanmateo org
  
 
 
 
From: Ellen Wang <
>
Sent: Sunday, October 8, 2023 11:34 PM

--- page 147 ---
10/24/23, 3:51 PM
Mail - Laura Richstone - Outlook
https://outlook.office365.com/mail/sentitems/id/AAMkADdjOTQ3YTBmLTY0MjEtNDdkZS1hNWJlLTdmOWZiYzcyMjFlMQBGAAAAAABk62AgaWmJR…
1/2
Re: Comments on Objective Design Standards
Laura Richstone <lrichstone@cityofsanmateo.org>
Tue 10/24/2023 3:51 PM
To:​Manira Sandhir <msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org>;​lstetson@migcom.com <lstetson@migcom.com>​
Cc:​Ashley Snodgrass <asnodgrass@cityofsanmateo.org>​
Hi Michael, 
Your comments have been received and will be forwarded to the Planning Commission prior to the public hearing
tonight. If you would like, information on how to attend tonight’s meeting (virtually or in person) can be found
here   
Thank you, 
Laura Richstone
Associate Planner | Community Development Department
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7205 | lrichstone@cityofsanmateo.org
  
 
 
 
 
From: Michael Nash 
Sent: Tuesday, October 24, 2023 1:17 PM
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; Alex
Khojikian akhojikian@cityofsanmateo org
Subject: Comments on Objective Design Standards
 
Dear Planning Commissioners and City Councilmember:
 
I have been copied on several letters to you about the Objective Design Standards
that are consistent with my thoughts, so I will only add what I did not see in other's
documents   To be clear, Ms  Laurie Hietter’s letter is consistent with my point of
view.
In addition, I would ask:
 
1      Please clarify whether a duplex is considered a multi family unit or not as it applies to
these ODS. 
2.     Please add information on what design standards, if any, are included with the
discretionary design process.  
3      Bikes & scooters do not belong on sidewalks and paseos   Can we devise standards that
require impediments to these types of vehicles, while allowing pedestrians, strollers &

--- page 148 ---
10/24/23, 3:51 PM
Mail - Laura Richstone - Outlook
https://outlook.office365.com/mail/sentitems/id/AAMkADdjOTQ3YTBmLTY0MjEtNDdkZS1hNWJlLTdmOWZiYzcyMjFlMQBGAAAAAABk62AgaWmJR…
2/2
wheelchairs to move easily?  
4.     The three-foot screening walls should not be suitable for sitting.  That encourages
loitering   Standards should require appropriate designs for these walls
5.     The City Traffic engineer should consult with the developer on curb cuts when on two
primary streets. It should not be solely up to the developer. 
6.     Please add explicitly,  that projects in Historic Districts will conform to the “Historic
Preservation” Ordinance which should supersede these ODS  
7.     These ODS do not address how each building should contribute to the district that hosts
the project.  Can additional standards be developed to address this shortcoming?  The
ODS should contribute to the overall appeal of an areas not only that of a single
building  
 
 
 
Regards,
 
Michael Nash

--- page 149 ---
Laurie Hieter 
 
 
San Mateo, CA 
 
 
 
 
October 24, 2023 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Planning Commission 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Street 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Dear Planning Commission Members: 
The Objective Design Standards (ODS) for multi-family and mixed-use projects are not 
complete. ODS should require consideration of the neighborhood architecture, which was a 
repeated theme in comments on the initial draft ODS. The intent of the ODS should be clearly 
expressed as promoting new inﬁll building design that respects existing community character; 
uses established building types found in San Mateo; aﬃrms and compliments the wealth of 
varied architectural styles; and encourages new development to be compatible and harmonious 
with the building types and architectural styles prevalent in San Mateo. 
Speciﬁc Comments on the Document 
p. 2:   
2.2 APPLICABILITY 
A. The ODS set forth in this document apply to new mulƟ-family development, residenƟal mixed-
use any provision of state law which references objecƟve design standards, including but not 
limited to Government Code SecƟon 65589.5 (Housing Accountability Act) and SecƟon 65913.4, 
as may be amended from Ɵme to Ɵme. 
A single-family home with an ADU seems to qualify as a multi-family development. Please 
clarify whether these standards would apply to a single-family home with an ADU. If not, they 
should be speciﬁcally excluded in this paragraph and in the deﬁnitions section. 
p. 4:  
C. High-rise shall mean buildings eight (8) or more stories or more than ninety (90) feet in 
height. 
Measure Y limits heights to 55 ft. in most locations. The voters were clear that they do not want 
height and density in the City. The ODS should not address buildings that exceed Measure Y 
with a density bonus. The ODS ignore the will of the people who voted to limit heights and 
density in San Mateo. Change the ODS if necessary in the future if Measure Y is not in eﬀect. 
2.3 TYPES OF BUILDINGS REGULATED 
These standards establish regulaƟons for three general building types: low-rise, mid-rise, and 
high-rise buildings, deﬁned below:

--- page 150 ---
Planning Commission 
October 24, 2023 
Page 2 
 
A. Low-rise shall mean buildings up to three (3) stories but no more than thirty-ﬁve (35) feet in 
height. 
Clarify that these standards will apply to demolition and construction of a single-family home 
with an ADU (if that is the case).  
p. 12:  B. Surface parking areas, including driveways, shall not occupy more than twenty-ﬁve (25) 
percent or sixty (60) feet of the project frontage, whichever is greater. In single-family 
neighborhoods they shall not occupy more than 25% of the project frontage. 
As written, this standard would allow a residence with an ADU to have a 60-foot project 
frontage. That is unacceptable in a single-family residential neighborhood. Please add the 
second sentence. 
p. 5: Low-Rise Buildings 
Clarify whether low-rise buildings include a single-family home with an ADU. 
p. 16:  4 BUILDING DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE 
Chapter 4 Building Design and architecture does not discuss or emphasize the need to match 
the existing architectural context. Comments on the Draft ODS consistently and repeatedly 
emphasized the neighborhoods’ desire to respect the existing architecture. Please add a 
discussion of architectural styles in the City, and create a standard to blend in and be 
compatible with the existing architectural context. At a minimum, the reader should be referred 
to the discussion of architectural styles in Chapter 7. 
A. A combinaƟon of at least three (3) diﬀerent colors and/or materials shall be used on each 
building façade, exclusive of trim and roof. For example, the combinaƟon could be two (2) 
diﬀerent colors and one (1) diﬀerent material. No more than six (6) colors and/or materials 
may be uƟlized on each building façade. 
Six colors/materials sounds chaotic. Should this be allowed on a minimum-size structure? 
Summary 
1. Measure Y is the law in the City. The ODS should reﬂect current law. 
2. More emphasis should be placed on the existing types of architecture and encouraging 
new inﬁll building design to respect the existing community character.   
3. The building transitions should be gradual and should be shown in illustrations.  
4. The south side of 4th Avenue and the neighborhood streets from S Delaware to S 
Amphlett should be excluded from the ODS.  These are smaller pre-war single-family 
homes and should be preserved.

--- page 151 ---
Planning Commission 
October 24, 2023 
Page 3 
 
5. The parking on the south side of 4th Avenue should remain in front of the homes and 
residents should be able to back out of their driveways. New projects should respect the 
existing community character.  
6. Each neighborhood has its own visual and physical characteristics and deserves 
respect.  Each neighborhood could be considered a zone.  We need to encourage new 
developments to be compatible and harmonious with building types and architectural 
styles prevalent in San Mateo.   
7. The ODS should discuss how the City will apply the ODS if there are ﬁve units of 
housing proposed in a 150,000 sf mixed-use project, which is common downtown.  
8. Clarify whether these ODS will apply to a single-family home with an ADU or a new 
duplex. 
9. ODS should be explicitly excluded from developer waiver and concession requests. 
Thank you for your consideration. 
Sincerely, 
 
Laurie Hietter 
 
cc:  
City Council 
 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance

--- page 152 ---
From: 
  
Sent: Monday, October 23, 2023 1:33 PM 
To: Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: objective Design Standards meeting ( ODS) 
  
to the planning commission and City Council     
  
This is at least my 40th letter to  your groups in the past 13 years   I am not tired or impatient and will not 
go away   Bottom line  there are many of us who live here and vote here ,,,So many times we have voted 
for HEIGHT LIMITS   and so many times these devious deceitful builders and project planners want to get 
rid of the 55 FOOT HEIGHT LIMITS   Yes the  GOV in Sacto has allowed some waivers and he will be 
gone and yes we will vote against anyone who wants to include WAIVERS or GIFTS to developers   They 
cannot grease my palms 
  
Again I plead for you to realize that we voted in these height limits for several reasons   Your planning 
commissions have ruined the landscape of San Mateo East of El Camino,,,I will not complain about a few 
feet higher for the TALBOTS development but will speak in GENERAL as it is obvious several of previous 
and current members of the planning commission  and City Council have been given gifts for their 
support    DOG AND PONY shows go a long way but bottom line is that the voters have spoken about a 
55 foot limit,,,Do some of you need to use my hearing aid??? 
  
Some kind of investigations need to be done on the current planning Commissioner who needs to 
resign   I am also in favor of a city wide election of the city planner as it is obvious that FRAUD in this 
position is RAMPANT,,,,Ebetner should resign and go hide as eventually fraud will be discovered 
  
Again I plead you not to remove or erase this 55 foot height limit      are some of  you deaf or what 
??????????????????? 
  
Rick KARR

--- page 153 ---
-----Original Message----- 
From: Diane Smith 
  
Sent: Tuesday, October 24, 2023 3:58 PM 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Measure Y 
 
Dear Commissioners, 
As a 40 year plus resident I am saddened by the direction we are heading for San Mateo. I understand 
growth is necessary but please make it responsible. Your citizens have repeatedly voted to limit height 
requirement yet at every turn the Commission leans toward exceptions. Please do not be blinded by 
greed and look at quality of life and character of our City before you vote. 
Thank you, 
Diane Smith

--- page 154 ---
From: Maxine Terner 
  
Sent: Tuesday, October 24, 2023 2:50 PM 
To: Manira Sandhir <msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Objective Design Stds 
 
Hello Manira - Please make attachment available for PC prior to meeting. 
And please understand that these guidelines need much fleshing out and are inadequate as presented. 
Please continue the meeting so more feedback can be provided. 
Thank you, 
Maxine

--- page 155 ---
Comments to Planning Commission 
10/24/23 
 
There is not enough time for the public to give you adequate feedback on these final guidelines. 
What’s the hurry? Please continue this meeting so that initial feedback can be made available 
for the press and interested neighborhood groups. 
A. Setbacks - EL CAMINO REAL MASTER PLAN AREA   
What are setbacks based on. From the curb, from property line (where is it). What is minimum width for 
sidewalk to include adequate tree planting?  
1. All buildings shall be set back a minimum of ten (10) feet along El Camino Real to satisfy and provide 
for the “effective sidewalk” standard, as defined in Section 8. Why isn’t this the same as Transit Center 
Area El Camino which is 20’? 
2. Buildings taller than two (2) stories shall be set back ten (10) feet from the property line along El 
Camino Real. 
A. Setbacks – Transit Center Area  
1. Buildings shall be set back from the back of curb along El Camino Real to create at least twenty (20) 
feet of combined effective sidewalk. 
 
7.1 DOWNTOWN PLAN AREA  
7.1.2 Building Design and Architecture 
Do not require all buildings to be Spanish Colonial Revival. Focus on compatibility and context of 
nearby buildings. Require deep reveal openings for windows. Require rooftop service facilities 
to be incorporated into building design or set back and covered. The Landscape section is 
pathetic and needs attention…especially for street trees. 
Buildings shall implement a Spanish Colonial Revival architectural style, as outlined and 
illustrated below: A. Required Architectural Elements. To implement the architectural style, a 
structure shall include all of the following elements:  
1. Building facing of light-colored stucco within a light reflectance value (LRV) range between 36 
and 80; use of weathered brick (no brick veneer), Ɵ le, stone, stone casing, or wood as accent 
materials is acceptable  
2. Low-pitched (below and including a 3:12 pitch) gabled or hipped roofs, sloped parapets, or 
flat surface with an eave overhang of not more than six (6) inches  
3. Red tile roofs and tiles parapets; simulated materials are acceptable

--- page 156 ---
7.1.3 Landscaping, Open Space, and Exterior Lighting 
Publicly accessible outdoor areas shall not be concealed from public frontages by fence/gates, 
insets, recesses, or setbacks.

--- page 157 ---
October 24, 2023
Re:
Item #3 - Draft Objective Design Standards
Dear Chair Ebneter and Members of the Planning Commission, 
In reviewing the Draft Objective Design Standards these are 5 important points::
1.
This ODS presumes that Measure Y will be gone and will not exist.  The voters made it very 
clear they wanted moderate growth, and this ODS shows the Maximum Growth Alternative with three 
building ranges.  The building types include:  Low-rise (1-3 stories) Mid-rise (4-7 stories not more than 
90’) , and High-rise (8 or more stories or more than 90’ .   Why didn’t they use Measure Y parameters 
in these illustrations? 
2.
The Spanish Colonial Revival style has been selected for the Downtown and the Gateway 
which does have its benefits since it is more traditional and blends in with the Historic Downtown.  But 
there are other types of traditional architecture such as Art Deco, and Neoclassic which could be 
considered for the Downtown to make it more eclectic.  We do not know what the areas outside of the 
Downtown will look like.  We need to encourage new infill building design to respect the existing 
community character.  Or else you will end up with glass buildings. 
3.
The building transition illustrations are very abrupt and go from single story to three story 
structures in the ODS.  There are other illustrations of single family to multi-story buildings.  The 
illustrations do not include a roof with dormer windows and look massive and boxy.  There are no 
gradual transitions. These  illustrations show the direction that the City is moving towards and its not 
moderate growth.  The south side of 4th Avenue and the neighborhood streets from S Delaware to S 
Amphlett should be excluded from the ODS.  These are smaller pre-war single family homes and 
should be preserved.  The parking on the south side of 4th Avenue should remain in front of the 
homes and residents should be able to back out of their driveways.  Instead it looks like the City is 
preparing these homes on the south side of 4th Avenue and the neighborhood streets for future 
demolition.  New projects should respect the existing community character.  The City has also 
reclassified both 5th Avenue and 9th Avenue to Arterials without discussion with our neighborhood. 
4.
This ODS looks like it is on the fasttrack.  What are the next steps?  Will type of architectural 
styles be in the areas outside of the Downtown?   Redwood City has created a template of 
architectural styles to choose from.  Will Planning fine tune the transition from single family to multi-
family with better illustrations so it is not as abrupt, but more gradual?  Each neighborhood has its 
own visual and physical characteristics and deserves respect.  Each neighborhood could be 
considered a zone.  We need to encourage new developments to be compatible and harmonious with 
the building types and architectural styles prevalent in San Mateo.  
5.
There is confusion on how this ODS will be used.  How do you handle 5 units of housing 
included in a 150,000 sf mixed-use project?  How do you handle SB-9 projects, a triplex, or a four-
plex project?  We do not have design guidelines for these types of projects.  Are you going to use the 
current Duplex Design Guidelines?  We hope they are not tossed out to promote new three story 
duplex designs.  Projects need to blend in and not stand out from all the others on the street.  This 
document is not ready for prime time.  Developers will be using waivers and concessions can get 
around the ODS.
Thank you.
Lisa Vande Voorde
Laurie Watanuki
Dianne Whitaker
1

--- page 158 ---
MULTI-FAMILY AND 
MIXED-USE RESIDENTIAL 
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS 
AND CODE AMENDMENTS
PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING
OCTOBER 24, 2023
LAURA RICHSTONE, ASSOCIATE PLANNER, CITY OF SAN MATEO
LAURA STETSON, PRINCIPAL, MIG  
1

--- page 159 ---
1.
PROJECT OVERVIEW AND PURPOSE OF 
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS (ODS)
2.
STRUCTURE OF OBJECTIVE DESIGN 
STANDARDS AND RELATIONSHIP TO ZONING 
CODE AND SPECIFIC PLANS
3.
ODS CHANGES IN RESPONSE TO COMMENTS
4.
ZONING CODE AMENDMENTS
5.
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE PLANNING 
COMMISSION
2

--- page 160 ---
THE PROCESS
Research Best Practices
Analyze Existing 
Guidelines and 
Specific Plans 
Focus Group Meetings
Planning Commission 
Study Session
PHASE I
DISCOVERY
Define ODS Approach 
for San Mateo 
Residents’ Input
Development 
Community Input
PHASE II
PUBLIC INSIGHTS
Draft Objective Design 
Standards
Draft Graphics/Exhibits
Planning Commission 
Study Session 
(August 8, 2023)
PHASE III
PUBLIC REVIEW – 
Draft Standards
Final Revisions
Planning Commission 
Hearings
City Council Hearings
(adoption required 
before December 31, 
2023)
PHASE IV
ADOPTION
Spring 2020 – 
Summer 2021
Summer 2021 – 
Summer 2022
Summer 2022 – 
Summer 2023
Summer - Winter 2023
3

--- page 161 ---
PROJECT OVERVIEW
OBJECTIVES + OUTCOMES



--- page 162 ---
OBJECTIVES + OUTCOMES
• Create and adopt new standards to regulate 
the design of multi-family and residential 
mixed-use development projects in San Mateo
• Meet criteria required by State law 
• Listen to and learn from the community
• Achieve superior multi-family residential 
design
• Streamline review for compliant projects
• Implement Housing Element policy
5

--- page 163 ---
CITY POLICY FOUNDATION
• Strive San Mateo: General Plan 2040 
Update: https://strivesanmateo.org
• Housing Element Programs/Actions
Program Measure: Adopt Objective Design 
Standards to expedite production of housing.
Implementation Action: Adopt Objective 
Design Standards for multi-family residential 
projects and mixed-use projects with a 
residential component.
6

--- page 164 ---
All Multi-Family and Residential Mixed-Use projects, including:
WHAT DEVELOPMENTS QUALIFY? 
Townhouses 
+ 
Rowhouses
Mid-Rise and 
High-Rise
Apartments + 
Condominiums
Mixed-Use 
Developments 
with at least 2/3 
Residential 
Component
Duplexes
+
Triplexes
Two Houses on 
One Lot 
(e.g., SB9)
7

--- page 165 ---
HOW WILL THE OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS 
BE IMPLEMENTED? 
 
8

--- page 166 ---
SPECIFIC PLAN AREAS
▪Subjective design standards for 
private properties rewritten to be 
objective without changing intent
▪Applicants will still need to consult 
both a specific plan and the ODS
9

--- page 167 ---
HOW WILL THEY WORK? 
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS
Project with 
> 25 units that 
complies with ODS
Zoning 
Ordinance
Planning Commission Review
Objective Design 
Standards
Staff-level Review – New Track
Zoning 
Ordinance
Project with 
< 25 units that 
complies with ODS
Project 
Proposal
Objective Design 
Standards
Discretion applies 
to  applications 
opting out of ODS

--- page 168 ---
DOCUMENT STRUCTURE
SCOPE OF ODS



--- page 169 ---
TOPICS
ADDRESSED

1, ORGANIZATION

LL OPganiZation vcscsccssesresscsssesscesnnsees 1

2. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY

2.1 PULPOSO..csseceesesenentesnerceneserseeteeseres 3
2.2 Applicability...iccsccsssssssssssseeesen 3
2.3 Types of Buildings Regulated .......... 4

3. SITE PLANNING

3.1 Pedestrian Access and
ACCOMMOGALIONS ..cescecesesesesseeneeres )

3.2 Parking, Access,
ANG DriVEWAYS v.ssscsesssssesesesesnesees 11

3.3 Frontage Elements in Central Business
District (CBD) Zoning District ........ 13

4, BUILDING DESIGN AND

ARCHITECTURE
4.1 Massing and Articulation... 15
4.2 Ground Floor Requirements... 26

4.3 Additional Standards for

Mixed-Use Buildings ....csssesccsseees 27
4.4 Transitions and Screening vss 28
4.5 ROOF FOIM wesscstssssestsssssseesssesesessees 30
4.6 Windows, Doors, Entry Design,

ANG SOCULIEY vesteescstseeseeeseenseseenees 31
4.7 Materials and Colors occ 39

4.8 Additions to Existing Structures....41

5, LANDSCAPING, OPEN SPACE, AND
EXTERIOR LIGHTING

5.1 Landscaping and Open Space ...... 43
5.2 Exterior Lighting..cccsssesesseeseeeees 47

6, OTHER SITE FEATURES

6.1 Accessory Structures and
EMCIOSUIES sssesseeseseesseseesesrsseeeenseeee 9

6.2 Utilities and Mechanical

EQUIPMENT ....cccscseseeteesceeeeeeeereees 50
6.3 Required Screening wuss 51
B.4 Lightwells v.ccccsssecessesesseeseeeenes 51

7, SPECIFIC PLAN AREA STANDARDS

7.1 Downtown Plan Area vse 54
7.2 El Camino Real Master Plan Area ..59
7.3 Hillsdale Station APE .cseseeceen 61

7.4 Mariner's Island
Specific Plan ArEa ..ssssesessesseensecees 64

7.5 Mid and South El Camino Real ..... 65

7.6 San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit
Oriented Development

PLAN ALE8 wecesccescssesestesesestseneeenseeees 66
7.7 Vision of the Gateway....ssseseee 68
8. DEFINITIONS .scssssressrssnssrssteeseeanens 71

12


--- page 170 ---
ODS CHANGES IN RESPONSE 
TO PLANNING COMMISSION 
AND PUBLIC COMMENTS
13

--- page 171 ---
BUILDING 
ARTICULATION
• Horizontal Wall Plane 
Breaks
• Vertical Wall Plane Breaks
• Flat Plane Variation 
(added p. 22)
14

--- page 172 ---
MASSING AND STEPBACKS - RULE OF THIRDS

4.1.4 Massing Breaks - Generally

Structures of three (3) or more stories (measured from existing grade) shall follow the rule of thirds

in which a structure is divided into at least three primary masses. Possible ways to break a horizontal

mass into three elements are illustrated below.

15


--- page 173 ---
MASSING AND STEPBACKS — TRANSITION AREAS

fe) Abutting R-1 zoning district

2 10 foot stepback for mid-rise buildings (2 20
feet stepback required for high-rise buildings).

2 25 foot set back for mid-rise buildings (2 40
feet set back required for high-rise buildings).

abutting Ri zoning district

| R-1 zoning district

‘| Mid- and high-rise buildings within 20 feet of an

a Set back distance

| | Stepback / set back facade

16


--- page 174 ---
4.5 ROOF FORM

4.5.1 Variation

All buildings up to four (4) stories in height shall provide variations of roof height and/or form for
thirty (30) percent minimum of the roofline.

4.5.2 Additional Requirements

A. A building shall have no more than two (2) variations in roof form.

B. Roof pitch and eave treatment shall be consistent on a building.

C. Flat roofs shall provide a capped, two (2)-foot high minimum parapet.

D. Roof parapets shall include a coping on the top and a drip edge.

Figure 35: Percentage of roof line (Section 4.5.1) Figure 36: Variations in roof form (Section 4.5.2)

ROOF FORMS & VERTICAL BUILDING FEATURES

4.6.1 Window and Door Alignment

A. Vertical Alignment. For building facades that front a street or public right-of-way, windows, doors,
bays, arches, and balconies shall align vertically along a center line through these elements. Where
the ground floor or base of a building is a nonresidential use, vertical alignment shall begin from
the second floor or wherever the residential use begins.

‘onl
va AA wun
NN NY
ih HN

17


--- page 175 ---
COLORS & 
MATERIALS
18
Reduced from 4 
to 3 colors & 
materials
Reduced from 15% 
to 10% of building 
façade

--- page 176 ---
NEW ARCHITECTURAL STYLE REQUIREMENT – 
DOWNTOWN AND VISION OF THE GATEWAY
19

--- page 177 ---
MISCELLANEOUS CHANGES
20
▪Added corner treatment element options beyond a tower or corner cut
▪Reduced minimum ground-floor ceiling height requirements from 15 to 12 
feet
▪Reduced minimum window recesses from 6 to 4 inches
▪Changed dog run and community garden areas contribution to required 
open space requirements from 50 units to 25 units
▪Provided an illustrated definition of “stepback”
▪Reduced setback alternatives from 40 to 20 feet for mid-rise buildings in 
transition areas
▪Expanded public plaza requirement to also allow publicly accessible open 
space
▪Removed triggering requirement for paseos
▪Clarified colors allowed (i.e., neon and hue)
▪Clarified that chain link or vinyl fencing is prohibited as a screening material 
for parking or utility structures
▪Clarified the term “shade structure”

--- page 178 ---
ZONING CODE AMENDMENTS



--- page 179 ---
PROPOSED CODE AMENDMENTS
22
PROPOSED CODE AMENDMENTS
Municipal Code Section
Proposed Change
1
27.060.020 “Zoning Administrator 
Powers and Duties”
Increase the Zoning Administrator power and duties to approve projects 
from less than six residential units to up to twenty-five residential units for 
projects that meet objective design standards. 
Increase fence height from six feet to over seven feet for rear and side yards 
when Zoning Administrator Approval is required, to align with the Building 
Code. 
2
27.060.040 “Planning Commission 
Jurisdiction”
Clarify that the Planning Commission would review projects with over 
twenty-five units that meet objective design standards and all projects six or 
more units that do not meet objective design standards. 
3
27.08.030 “Site Plan and Architectural 
Review (SPAR)”
Increase the threshold for when fences require a SPAR from six to seven feet 
in height, to align with the Building Code. 
4
27.21.030 “Rules of Procedure”
Incorporate the Objective Design Standards by reference. 
5
27.39.120 “Residential Development 
Standards”
Incorporate the Objective Design Standards by reference.

--- page 180 ---
PUBLIC NOTICING
23
▪Noticing
▪Newspaper notice 
▪Posting at public facilities 
▪Email to interested parties list
▪Planning eNewsletter
▪Social media posts (Facebook, Instagram, Nextdoor)
▪Published ODS document on city website 10 days prior to 
public hearing

--- page 181 ---
PUBLIC COMMENTS
24
▪Public comments received 
▪Concerns regarding heights, regulations for taller 
buildings, applicability of ODS, parking and driveways, 
maximum number of colors/materials allowed, 
excluding ODS from certain portions of the City, 
requests to exclude/deny waivers and concessions for 
ODS projects, additional architectural styles per 
neighborhood,  historic preservation, request to exclude 
bicycle and scooter travel on sidewalks and paseos, and 
screening walls.

--- page 182 ---
Za
O
-—
<<
C)
Zz
7
=
=
©
©)
Lt
O-



--- page 183 ---
26
Recommend that the City Council: 
1. Determine the ODS and Zoning text amendments qualify for 
an exemption from further environmental review pursuant to 
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines 
Section 15061(b)(3);
2. Adopt a Resolution to establish Objective Design Standards 
(ODS) for multi-family and mixed-use residential projects; and
3. Adopt an Ordinance to amend the Zoning Code (Title 27) 
related to ODS and review processes for multi-family and 
mixed-use residential projects; and align fence height 
standards to match building code standards.

--- page 184 ---
THANK  YOU
City Staff Contact:
Laura Richstone, Associate Planner
lrichstone@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7205
27