Merced Residents Named in Lawsuit Against Motorola Solutions Over License Plate Reader Data Sharing - Los Banos Enterprise Skip to main content Skip to footer Home Business & Money Agriculture Chamber of Commerce Dining Downtown Economy Industry Jobs Real Estate Technology Community Arts & Entertainment Children & Families Faith Health & Fitness History Military & Veterans Health & Wellness Obituaries Seniors Sports Youth The Valley Water Weather News + CHP County Local News Education Elections Fire Government State Transportation Opinion Editorials Letters to the Editor Op-Eds Artículos en Español Contact Us About Us Advertise Follow Us On... Search Home News + Local The Valley Sports Business & Money Health & Wellness Obituaries Artículos en Español Opinion Advertise Search [adsanity align='aligncenter' id=4230] Merced Residents Named in Lawsuit Against Motorola Solutions Over License Plate Reader Data Sharing PUBLISHED June 12, 2026 AT 10:48 AM by Kara Hernandez Merced, CA (June 12, 2026) — Two Merced residents are named in a proposed class-action lawsuit against Motorola Solutions Inc. over allegations involving automated license plate reader data collected in California. The lawsuit names Michelle Rojas and Marissa Barriga as plaintiffs and alleges that Motorola Solutions’ automated license plate reader technology collected vehicle-location information in the Merced area, including near the University of California, Merced. The lawsuit also alleges that license plate reader data collected in California was improperly shared with federal and out-of-state law enforcement agencies. Automated license plate reader systems, commonly called ALPR systems, use cameras and software to capture license plate information and related location data. California’s Senate Bill 34 regulates the collection, use, access, sharing, storage and protection of ALPR information. The lawsuit comes after the Merced Police Department said in April that it conducted an internal review of its automated license plate reader system after concerns were raised about ALPR data sharing. The department said that review found prior system configurations allowed data sharing with certain federal agencies. Merced Police said it immediately disabled the identified connections and would continue additional audits to ensure ongoing compliance. The department said its license plate reader system uses Motorola Solutions, also known as Vigilant technology, and does not use Flock Safety cameras. “The Department remains committed to full compliance with California law, which limits data sharing and will ensure its systems and practices align with these legal requirements through ongoing review and oversight,” Merced Police said in its April 23 statement. Merced Police Chief Steven Stanfield said the technology is used as an investigative tool. “This technology plays a critical role in public safety. In fact, recent use of our license plate reader system helped investigators identify and apprehend suspects connected to a homicide investigation,” Stanfield said. “While we are committed to leveraging tools that help solve serious crimes, we are equally committed to ensuring those tools are used in compliance with the law and with respect for our community’s privacy.” A VehicleManager Agency Data Sharing Report posted by the City of Merced and dated April 25 lists Los Banos Police Department among California agencies connected to Merced Police Department’s license plate reader data-sharing network. The report lists Los Banos Police Department under “Detections Shared,” “Detections Received” and “Hot List Sharing.” The same report lists UC Merced Police Department under “Hot List Sharing.” The City of Merced Police Department transparency page includes the department’s ALPR Agency Report and License Plate Reader Policy. The California Attorney General’s Office has issued guidance to law enforcement agencies on the legal use and management of automated license plate recognition data. The Attorney General’s Office said California law requires ALPR operators and end users to maintain usage and privacy policies and follow legal limits on how the data is accessed, used, stored and shared. In a separate 2025 enforcement action, the Attorney General’s Office sued the City of El Cajon , alleging the city unlawfully shared license plate reader data with out-of-state and federal law enforcement agencies. Motorola Solutions describes its license plate recognition technology as a public safety tool used to capture and analyze vehicle location data. The company’s VehicleManager platform includes search, analytics and agency-sharing tools. The proposed lawsuit seeks to proceed as a class-action. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Leave the first comment (Cancel Reply) You must be logged in to post a comment. Filed under: Local News Los Banos crime report for June 26-July 2, 2022, seven arrested July 7, 2022 Los Banos Police Department Welcomes New Officers, Honors Retirement of Veteran Officer April 1, 2026 [mailpoet_form id="1"] What do you think? Share your thoughts. [adsanity align='aligncenter' id=4230] Home News + Local The Valley Sports Business & Money Health & Wellness Obituaries Artículos en Español Opinion Advertise Copyright 2026 © Los Banos Enterprise Privacy Policy