source: packet.pdf
sha256: 6fb2ad0d4581d50e589d5d6ebc216050ca5c8a2925d53bde4a8a22bb44b00fe3
pages: 69
ocr_pages: 3
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Park and Recreation Commission
Regular Meeting
August 6, 2025
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chambers
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Sarah Fields, Chair
Peter Wicher, Vice Chair
Sandra Kiapi
Sabrina Ocampo
Regina Trapp
Thomas Jelniker – Youth Commissioner
 Dahlia Anapolsky – Youth Commissioner
 
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom: Click Here
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Webinar ID: 873 7785 7011  Passcode: 417043
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
CEREMONIAL
1.
Introduce and Welcome Youth Commissioner, Dahlia Anapolsky
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
2.
Park and Recreation Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of June 4, 2025.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the Commission at
this time. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not of the agenda; your comments may be
referred to staff for follow up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional
public comment may provided later in the agenda.
OLD BUSINESS
3.
Beresford Pickleball Pilot Program – Presentation and Feedback
Receive a presentation on the Beresford Pickleball Pilot Program and provide feedback on the proposed
transition to an ongoing drop-in court for pickleball at Beresford Park.
1 of 69

--- page 2 ---
4.
Shoreview Skatepark Project (610038) – Approval of the Proposed Improvement Plan
Approve the proposed improvements and authorize staff to proceed with the preparation of bid/construction
documents for the Shoreview Skatepark.
NEW BUSINESS
5.
Election of Officers
Elect Chair and Vice Chair of Park and Recreation Commission
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments and requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Commission meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: prcommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form and submit to the recording secretary.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate
in this meeting may contact the Parks and Recreation Administrative Office at (650) 522-7400 or by email
at parksandrecreation@cityofsanmateo.org.Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 69

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-10226
TO:
Park and Recreation Commission
FROM:
Joanne Magrini
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
August 06, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Park and Recreation Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of June 4, 2025.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Regular Meeting Minutes 6.4.2025
STAFF CONTACT
Ashley Snodgrass , Administrative Technician
asnodgrass@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7403
3 of 69

--- page 4 ---
Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 6/4/25
1
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Sarah Fields, Chair
Peter Wicher, Vice Chair
Sandra Kiapi
Sabrina Ocampo
Regina Trapp
Thomas Jelniker, Youth 
Commissioner
Vacant, Youth Commissioner
City of San Mateo
Regular Meeting Minutes
Park and Recreation Commission
Tuesday, June 4, 2025
Regular Meeting 7:00 PM
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
CALL TO ORDER 
Chair Fields called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
ROLL CALL
Commissioners:
Present: 
Chair Fields, Vice Chair Wicher, Commissioners Kiapi and Ocampo
Absent: 
Commissioner Trapp
Youth Commissioners
Present: None
Absent: Jelniker
CEREMONIAL
1.
Introduce and Welcome New Administrative Technicians, Ashley Snodgrass and Lauren Allen
Director, Joanne Magrini, introduced new Administrative Technicians, Ashley Snodgrass and Lauren Allen.
CONSENT CALENDAR
2.
Park and Recreation Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the regular meeting of May 7, 2025.
Moved:
Wicher, Seconded: Ocampo
Ayes:
Fields,Wicher, Kiapi, Ocampo
Noes:
None
Absent: 
Trapp
Motion Passed: 4-0
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Michael Sevillia expressed concern for the VIP Membership Program at the Poplar Creek Golf Course.
NEW BUSINESS
3.
Current Department Capital Improvement Parks Projects Update – Informational
4 of 69

--- page 5 ---
Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 6/4/25
2
Project Manager, King Leong, and Parks and Landscape Manager, Ron Hostick, presented the status of the 
department’s ongoing Capital Improvement Projects.
Public Comment: 
Michael Sevillia suggested utilizing the wastewater treatment plant to irrigate the Poplar Creek Golf Course.
Commissioners asked clarifying questions and made comments.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Director, Joanne Magrini, announced the Annual Park Survey closed on June 30th, summer camps and the pool opened 
on June 16th, the cancellation of the Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting on July 2nd, the Summer Concert 
Series will run from June 26th through August 14th, and the 4th of July Celebration will take place in Central Park from 
11:00 AM to 2:00 PM. There were no other reports from Commissioners.
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 7:30 PM.
SUBMITTED BY:
  _______________________________
  Ashley Snodgrass, Recording Secretary
5 of 69

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-10241
TO:
Park and Recreation Commission
FROM:
Joanne Magrini
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
August 06, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Beresford Pickleball Pilot Program – Presentation and Feedback
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a presentation on the Beresford Pickleball Pilot Program and provide feedback on the proposed transition to an 
ongoing drop-in court for pickleball at Beresford Park.
BACKGROUND:
In November 2023, the City of San Mateo conducted a community survey to assess court use at Beresford Park in response 
to growing interest in pickleball. Of the 555 respondents, nearly 60% identified pickleball as their primary sport, compared 
to 37.5% for tennis. Court usage was consistently high throughout the week, especially on weekends, with demand 
spanning mornings to evenings. Respondents included nearby residents (49.2%), others within the City (37.7%), and users 
from outside San Mateo (13.2%), highlighting the park’s regional appeal. Additionally, 25.8% reported playing both tennis 
and pickleball, underscoring the need for a flexible approach. 
On November 6, 2024, the Park and Recreation Commission was presented the plan and provided comments for a pilot 
pickleball program at Beresford Park. This effort commenced in February 2025, which added lines to an existing tennis 
court for three pickleball courts. The six-month pilot established a pickleball court system and encouraged community 
feedback. Courts were drop-in only, with signage outlining usage rules, player rotation, and etiquette. A “four on, four off” 
system and restrictions on private lessons helped ensure fair and safe play. 
At the conclusion of the pilot, the City received ninety-eight (98) comments of feedback, which were generally in favor of 
continuing a pickleball program while sharing experience and input on improvements. Of the ninety-eight (98) comments, 
fifty (50) comments were directly in favor of continuing the program, and seven (7) were in opposition or expressing 
concerns about continuing pickleball at the Beresford Park tennis courts. Other comments included feedback on 
suggestions and improvements to the program. 
Based on overall positive feedback from the pilot and the investments made to the courts, staff recommend transitioning 
the pickleball pilot program into an ongoing drop-in feature at Beresford Park. This includes retaining the existing court 
lines and nets and continuing to monitor feedback from the pickleball and tennis community.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The fiscal impact of transitioning the pilot program to permanent is expected to be minimal. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
6 of 69

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Pickleball Pilot Feedback Summary
Att 2 - Community Feedback
STAFF CONTACT
Zachary Silva, Community Services Manager
zsilva@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7442
7 of 69

--- page 8 ---
Att 1 – Pickleball Pilot Feedback Summary
Positive Feedback:
Positive feedback was overall appreciation for the Beresford pickleball courts, noting 
features, regular use, and community engagement. Some feedback shared included 
content with the existing signage, describing it as clear and visible and the nets also 
received positive feedback. A limited number of commenters liked the court layout to 
place three courts and not over crowd with a fourth.  Parking access at the site was 
noted as a positive, as were the paddle racks and the presence of a push broom to help 
keep the courts clean. Beresford pickleball courts received broad praise, with 50 
comments expressing appreciation for the ability to play pickleball at Beresford.  There 
was some self reported use ranging from weekly to daily play. Community coordination 
through WhatsApp with over 70 members highlights community interest.
Negative Feedback:
Pickleball noise levels generated concerns. Tennis users expressed frustration with 
limited and decreasing access, etiquette issues, and opposition to dedicating tennis 
space for pickleball, indicating it doesn’t need dedicated or expanded areas.
General Input:
Reported feedback highlighted the need to better secure signage affected by wind and 
improve court labeling to clearly distinguish between pickleball and tennis areas. While 
nets received positive remarks, some users noted ongoing concerns about movement 
and emphasized the importance of keeping them fixed. The barrier netting was 
frequently cited with requests for a sturdier alternative. Users also recommended adding 
color to court lines, more pickleball markings, and implementing a reservation system to 
better manage court use.
Observations were shared about spacing between courts, slope and surface, and 
lighting. Additional requests included more trash cans, another bench, and more paddle 
racks.  There was interest for more pickleball courts and interest in replicating the setup 
at Central.
Opportunities addressed to date:
We have installed signage outlining the court code of conduct, as well as clear signage 
indicating that Court One is designated for pickleball only. The nets have been adjusted 
to the correct height, are off their wheels, and are now fixed in place to prevent 
movement. Additionally, we have tightened any slack at the base of the barrier nets for 
additional support. A push broom has also been provided to support ongoing court 
cleanliness.
8 of 69

--- page 9 ---
Date
Feedback
1/30/2025
Would like us to use Court 3 for pickleball courts instead of Court 1. Less disruptive if pickleball 
lessons on Court 4 and pickleball drop in on Court 3. Court 3 has 2 areas of direct entry as well. 
1/25/2025
Several concerns regarding the noise that pickleball makes.
2/12/2025
I wanted to reach out regarding the unfortunate conversion of our public tennis courts into 
2/12/2025
Request the nets stay up for ball control and to avoid tripping hazards. 
2/13/2025
Excellent signage at Beresford. One question about game rules and numbers.
2/17/2025
The vertical net dividing the pickleball court from the tennis court blows and billows out with 
slight breezes, and it creates a gap that allows loose balls to escape into the tennis courts. 
Sandbags would probably remedy this. 
2/17/2025
It would be really helpful to have a horizontal divider of some sort between the one solo court 
and the two side by side courts.
2/20/2025
To put the tennis net or other barrier between the courts, closeness of the courts could be a 
safety concern with players backing up into the other courts.  Balls also drift into the area.
2/21/2025
Good quality pickleball nets, patron is impressed. Happy tennis net is back up and thankful for 
the new gate on the North end.
2/28/2025
Appreciates the layout of the courts & the 2nd gate entrance but the nets were out of place. 
Patron has concern of injury if patrons will be moving nets, suggest cables to hold in place and 
signage. Found trash on the court, suggest trash bins. 
3/16/2025
Courts were awesome & fun. The 2 courts beside each other with kind of tight but the single 
one is great. Greatful of the court location.
3/13/2025
 Noise concern.
3/15/2025
Grateful for putting up 3 pickleball courts at Beresford. Encourages people to be active in 
sports but it also promotes strong social network and relationships among residents 
3/18/2025
Just wanted to let you know that at 9am all the courts were full and about 10 people waiting. 
A lot of beginners. Also there’s a net on the courts still in its wheels. 
3/18/2025
Suggest signage on the net that nets are not supposed to be moved. Just because they are on 
wheels tennis people move them out of the way. 
3/7/2025
Great to see the nets are off the wheels and are at the correct heights now. 
3/7/2025
Just wanted to let you know that someone moved the pickleball nets off to the side of the 
court.  It might be a hazard. 
3/11/2025
Influx of players taking over tennis courts by manually setting up pickleball lines. Provide 
signage to clarify exclusive use of tennis/pickleball courts.
3/21/2025
Request court lines be of a different color other than the current blue color, color of the No 
Volley zone be made of a  different color than the back part of the court.
3/21/2025
Tennis player very upset about court 1 being only for pickleball. She stated that pickleball 
players are never out there and tennis players need that court. Tennis always has a line to 
wait in. Pickleball population is very small, whereas tennis population is much larger.
3/23/2025
Appreciates the Pickleball signage and with easy to read instructions. Thankful the city 
provided a push broom for clean up & safe play.
Att 2 - Community Feedback
9 of 69

--- page 10 ---
3/28/2025
 "someone" moved all three pickleball nets to the side.  Players have asked if these nets can 
be permanent
3/27/2025
Nets were moved despite signage. Cable ties were removed from wheels. Suggest to remove 
wheels and adding cameras to monitor the courts, add new signage. 
4/21/2025
Unfair that PB players play on tennis courts but tennis players can't play on PB court. It is 
unfair and illegal to use tax dollars to do favors for certain groups. Make tennis courts 
exclusive for tennis players.
5/8/2025
The barrier/wall blows over and knocks benches down, the anchor to the groud doesn't seem 
to work. 
5/8/2025
Plays 4 times a week, saves carbon prints by not going to neighbooring cities. Enjoys program.
5/23/2025
Nets had been moved, screw with black plastic handle broken. Trash pile found at site as well.
5/23/2025
Patron has several concerns about pickleball noise, added links to related stories.
6/11/2025
The addition of pickleball courts is wonderful and should becom permanent. I do suggest a 
better net between the pickleball court and tennis court be installed, along with wind screens 
as it was a bit windy when we played
6/22/2025
Hi - as a pickleball player in San Mateo, and frequent student in our parks & rec 
classes, I am writing to request that the city make a reservation system for some of 
the courts. Paddle queue and first-come-first-served is fine for some courts, but it 
would be nice to be able to reserve a court to ensure play with a group of friends. Like 
they do at the Foster City courts - 3 are paddle queue, 3 are by reservation. I know I 
am not the first/only San Mateo resident to request this, so would be curious if we 
can make it happen
6/20/2025
I am ecstatic that there are PB courts at Beresford. Hoping this will become permanent.  
Currently there are 2 benches in the PB area.  It would  be great if there is a third bench to 
accommodate more people.  In the event that the PB courts become permanent, would it be 
possible to have 4 courts, however having a single court on the south end allows a place for 
people to wait for their turn to play.  The paddle rack is wonderful.  Wish there is a similar 
setup/system at Central Park.  
6/21/2025
I’m playing there at least once a week and I have met a nice group there and we have a strong 
WhatsApp group of 64 members.
7/3/2025
I just want to thank you again for your efforts to support the pickleball players in the 
community. The pilot at Beresford has been great, providing a wonderful new place to gather 
and play. I fully support continuation and or making this permanent. It seemed to get great 
activity and continues to increase as people learn of the new courts and the word spreads. 
The biggest challenge is the wind, blowing the netting up 10+ feet. So potential improvements 
can either be a more permanent sturdy divider with screens, or maybe adjustment to the 
opposite end court with wind screens 
7/3/2025
I would like to take this opportunity to thank the city of San Mateo for creating this pilot 
program for Pickleball at Beresford.  I, together with family and friends really enjoy playing at 
this court.  One thing that I would suggest though is putting a fence top to bottom wind 
barrier as most of the time, it gets very windy in the area.
10 of 69

--- page 11 ---
7/3/2025
Please make the Pilot PB program at beresford park permanent.  The 3 PB courts allow 12 
people to play at any given time unlike tennis which permits only 4 people playing at one time. 
7/7/2025
Thank you for providing much needed pickleball courts at Beresford Park. Please continue to 
make them available, it's been great being able to play there.
7/7/2025
My name is 
. I live 
 in San Mateo. Please make the pickleball 
courts at Beresford Park permanent!  I go there often and meet so many wonderful people 
while playing pickleball.  It is a fun and friendly gathering place to enjoy a sport and get to 
know other residents of San Mateo. Also, it would be especially nice to improve the wind issue 
that does put a damper on playing outdoors.I really look forward to having the courts installed 
permanently.
7/7/2025
Like millions of others, I recently picked up pickleball—and I haven’t looked back since. I 
honestly can’t think of another sport that brings together people of all ages and backgrounds 
quite like this one.We all know how important daily exercise is, but what surprised me most 
were the mental health benefits. Pickleball has become more than just a workout; it's a very 
fun part of my routine, and I’ve seen real friendships form both on and off the 
court—something I never expected but truly value. The pickleball courts at Beresford are 
absolutely vital. They bring people together, boost well-being, and create a sense of 
community. I hope we can not only keep them but consider adding one or two more lined 
courts, maybe even start a league, or run tournaments. Since the park can get quite windy, 
sturdier windscreens would make a big difference.Please don’t take away something that’s 
clearly doing so much good for so many.
7/7/2025
Thank you for the opportunity to play at our own pickleball court at Beresford. My wish is that 
this is permanent as I play with a group weekly. This is the best ever that happened at our 
Beresford Community.Please consider making it permanent.  Not all of us Sr can play tennis 
anymore. I appreciate your consideration.
7/7/2025
Thank you for your willingness and attention to the growing sport of Pickleball in the City of 
San Mateo. Your Pilot Program at Beresford Park has been the talk of the town with all our 
pickleball players in the County. I utilize the courts 3-4 times a week with my friends in the 
morning hours and there are always enough friendly, welcoming fellow San Matean picklers to 
keep everyone involved in a game with a short break.There have been some hiccups but they 
involve people not respecting the signage and feeling entitled to move the Pickleball nets and 
not restore the courts (3) to the proper configuration. A trash receptacle would allow us to 
keep the facility clean and save the great Park & Rec staffers from having to pick up trash from 
the courts. The 3 pickleball courts in the space of one tennis court provides a welcoming, 
social experience for potentially 12 on court players with 2-8+ more players waiting to join in 
versus 2 to 4 tennis players.I hope you will see fit to make this pilot into a permanent fixture in 
the many activities you already provide at Beresford Park.As a senior citizen, pickleball has 
been a boon to me personally to stay fit and active. I've also made many new friends on and 
off the courts. This activity helps all citizens in providing a venue to keep us healthy, happy 
and social.
11 of 69

--- page 12 ---
7/7/2025
Thank you for bringing pickleball to Beresford Park! The pilot program has been a great 
success and the many pickleball players playing on all three courts absolutely love it!.  Our 
Beresford Pickleball WhatsApp group has 70 members to date and is growing. We have really 
appreciated the opportunity to foster and grow community in San Mateo and make new 
friends through pickleball at Beresford over these last several months.Please please please 
make the pickleball courts permanent! 
7/7/2025
We are San Mateo residents of San Mateo 
 and have been playing pickleball 
at Beresford Park the last few weeks.  It is a great place to play with an already built up 
community of players who show up routinely.  Please consider making these courts (and 
more) permanent!Thank you again for having this pilot program!
7/7/2025
Please make pickleball permanent at Beresford Park!! The courts are wonderful, it’s a 
convenient location, and all my pickleball friends love to meetup there!!!
7/7/2025
I love the beresford pickleball courts its 7mins away from my house compares to 25min 
everywhere else!
7/7/2025
Just want to give my feedback. The pickleball pilot courts in Beresford park the past few 
months has been wonderful. I didn’t know much about pickleball before but learned to play as 
I saw people in the court. It’s such a great community sport where people are friendly and 
welcoming. The court has brought up the san mateo residents and community together to 
enjoy the sports, exercise and social. I hope you can make the picketball courts at Beresford 
permanent.
7/7/2025
I just want to let you all know that I’ve played regularly at Beresford Park’s pickleball courts 
since it opened. I’ve met many nice people there and introduced many to the game.   Most of 
the players I’ve meet live walking distance from the courts and it is always nice to meet 
neighbors in our community. We would love to keep it open have P&R add  more courts. I 
often see full courts and overflow players using the tennis courts to play pickleball. Often 
there are no tennis players on the weekday mornings and mid afternoons but the pickleball 
courts are full. Thank you for all your support in making the  signs so that the nets are no  
longer being moved aside and for working on the divider between the pickleball courts and 
tennis courts.  It’s still not perfect, but your attention and efforts are greatly appreciated. 
Lastly I am asking for the pilot project to continue and hopefully we will get permanent 
dedicated courts.
7/7/2025
I am hearing that the pilot program for Beresford pickleball courts is coming to an end.  I am 
hoping that the city will consider making the pickleball courts permanent.  Not only that the 
sport is beneficial for our health, it also fosters social interaction among San Mateo residents
7/7/2025
I lived 10 blocks from Beresford and play pickleball almost every day either at Beresford or, to 
be honest, primarily at Washington Park in Burlingame only because in Burlingame:(a) their 
courts are painted with two tones (kitchen and not kitchen) and; (b) they have 4 courts 
instead of 3 court. If our City of San Mateo would paint the pickleball courts two tones and 
have 4 courts, like in Washington Park, I would play primarily at Beresford--it would be great 
for our community because the pickleball court is inherently great at building community. 
Please, please, please paint the courts! Thank you so much for the trial period and I hope you 
make it permanent because I know others would come if they were painted.
12 of 69

--- page 13 ---
7/7/2025
I live in San Mateo and have absolutely fallen in love with the beautiful game of pickleball. 
Almost everyday, my family and I go down to the courts at Beresford and play many games. It 
has brought not only my family, but friends tighter in our sacred bond. The environment is 
truly amazing and the people there are so welcoming and kind. Two things however, need to 
be fixed: 1. the courts need to be painted in two tones (kitchen, and non-kitchen area) 2. 
There should be 4 courts instead of 3.I'm so glad these courts are here because they bring the 
city of San Mateo closer together. Please let them stay and paint them! Thank you very much
7/7/2025
Hello City of SM P&R commissioners: We are writing to let you know how much we appreciate 
the pilot program of creating pickle ball courts at Beresford Park. We live in the Laurelwood 
neighborhood and are so thankful that we don’t have to go far anymore to enjoy playing. The 
courts are being used as we play at least 4 times a week and always have people there to hit 
up a game.  Groups are forming.  Tennis players that we see there are usually friendly and 
some even try PB. 
7/7/2025
Regarding the Beresford Pickleball courts  trial, we sincerely believe that it has been successful 
in providing players like 
 and myself a wonderful place to play pickleball from dawn 
until dusk. The courts are well laid out and the people there are very friendly. As such, we 
hope that the Pickleball courts at Beresford Park will  be made permanent in the near future.
7/7/2025
I hope this message finds you well. I’m writing to express my support for pickleball in our 
neighborhood and to offer feedback regarding the use of tennis courts. I’ve been a resident 
here since 1994 and have used the tennis courts over the years. Recently, I've observed the 
significant rise in pickleball's popularity, particularly with many players from Foster City joining 
in. It’s been exciting to see this growth, especially as it provides an opportunity for people, like 
myself, who can no longer play tennis but still enjoy physical activity through pickleball. Given 
this influx of players, I strongly advocate for maintaining the existing pickleball courts and, if 
possible, converting additional tennis court space to accommodate more pickleball setups. 
This makes perfect sense, as one tennis court can be converted into three or four pickleball 
courts, which would help accommodate the growing demand. Thank you for considering this 
suggestion, and I look forward to hearing more about the future of pickleball in our 
community.
7/7/2025
Ever since the Beresford pickleball courts have opened, I’ve been playing one to two times a 
week with friends. The court is in great condition, has enough room, and great nets. Playing 
pickleball at the park has given me great opportunities to deepen my relationships with 
friends, meet new people, and enjoy Beresford! I usually play Friday evenings and Sunday 
mornings. As a local San Mateo resident living on 
, this location is extremely 
convenient for me. Please keep the pickleball courts indefinitely!
13 of 69

--- page 14 ---
7/7/2025
Hello! I've been playing with friends at Beresford Park almost every week (Friday evenings or 
Sunday mornings). The courts are very nice - nets are sturdy and the court surface is grippy. 
It's a nice park for beginners to play because it's not as popular as some other parks. Foster 
City pickleball courts are popular, which can be really intimidating for beginners, and the 
surface is very slippery. San Mateo Central Park is also a decent option, but the nets are flimsy 
and it can get busy as well. I think it would be a good idea to permanently keep the pickleball 
courts at Beresford Park, especially since the sport is getting more and more popular
7/7/2025
I just wanted to say how much I enjoy using the pickleball courts at Beresford Park. It’s a great 
spot, convenient, well-used, and a fantastic way for our community to stay active and 
connected. I really hope the courts can remain a permanent fixture.
7/7/2025
I am emailing in support of the pickleball courts at Beresford Park. We regularly use them as 
do our friends. We hope that they stay and get permanently installed in the park. We were 
hoping that you would draw the lines in permeability so it isn't as confusing when playing. 
7/8/2025
Please keep these courts!!! It is so nice to be able to play locally here in this area of San 
Mateo,I think that the courts are just catching on now, as many people did not know about 
them.Please keep them so we don't need to go to Belmont or Foster City to play. We need to 
have courts here!!
7/8/2025
I am a resident of San Mateo and have so enjoyed having Pickleball courts in the 
neighborhood. I have played at Beresford park multiple times and have really enjoyed having 
Pickleball courts available to me. I have met some very nice people at the courts and have 
seen so many people enjoying the game. I really hope you continue to keep the Pickleball 
courts available to us.
7/8/2025
I’ve been playing pickleball Friday evenings and Sunday mornings at Beresford. And I was 
informed that the courts are being piloted. I’m reaching out to ask if it’s possible to make the 
courts permanent since they are being used and they bring joy to people like myself.
7/8/2025
Please keep the pickleball courts it is super convenient and fun. Thank you
7/8/2025
I love the pickleball courts at Beresford park and I would appreciate if they stayed and even 
expanded more courts since it is always packed.
7/8/2025
I saw the flyers around the court and wanted to give feedback. I really enjoy these pickleball 
courts and would like to see them here as a permanent feature in the future. More court lines 
would be great to have.
7/8/2025
I’m emailing feedback on the pickle ball pilot program at Beresford park.I think the courts are 
a great addition to the park, providing a space efficient and approachable game. Every time I 
go, the courts are full of family and friends enjoying the outdoors. I would love to see the 
program continue, and even expanded. A single tennis court could fit 4 pickeball courts, and 
the courts are constantly full.
7/8/2025
I would like to thank you for "testing" pickleball at Beresford Park.  I have played there 
numerous times since the courts were lined and have found it a wonderful place to play.  I 
appreciate the cleanliness, the respectfulness of the players that share the courts and the 
community for finding a great place for us to play. I hope you make these courts permanent as 
it's a wonderful community gathering spot for fun and socializing
14 of 69

--- page 15 ---
7/8/2025
Thank you so much to build these wonderful PickleBall courts for us. I'm a new immigrant. 
These courts give me so much opportunity to get close to my neighborhood. I think these 
courts make our community more amicable, more happy.
7/8/2025
This pilot program is a success!  I play there (and in Belmont where I am a resident) and I can 
see the joy it brings to the community.  I have witnessed the additional benefits it brings to 
bridge the generation gap between younger and older and much older players.  They are able 
to play with each other and find common ground.  This is beautiful!  Getting outside, playing a 
sport and making new connections - this is all happening because of the courts.  I appreciate 
this initiative of starting this pilot program.  Thank you for this! 
7/8/2025
Please keep pickleball available at Beresford park !!! I love to play and those courts are very 
close to me. I’m old and it is a fun way to stay in shape and feel healthy. You need to add one 
more court on the 28th Ave side.  This way 2 could be for drop in and the other 2 could be by 
reservation only. It would be nice to have racks for the paddles at least on the drop in courts. 
Please keep improving the pickle ball courts. This sport is the fastest growing sport in America 
right now. Foster city has six dedicated Pickleball courts and they are constantly busy until at 
least two or three in the afternoon. I understand with this new construction they’re adding 
four more.  Don’t lose this opportunity to provide this wonderful sport to the people that live 
in San Mateo 
7/8/2025
Hi, I am a resident of San Mateo 
.  I have 
enjoyed playing pickleball at Beresford park a lot.  I play there 2 times a week and would very 
much like the pickleball courts to be made permanent. Furthermore, it gets very windy in the 
afternoons.  It would greatly help if a better windbreak can be installed. Thank you for 
soliciting feedback on the program.
7/9/2025
Thank you for giving us - San Mateo residents a fun place to play pickleball!My husband & I 
plus neighbors picked up the game & we are enjoying the proximity & availability of the 
courts. May we suggest: Anchoring lower nets with cables (similar to top cables) as the ropes 
are not strong enough on very windy days Would it be possible to use the other tennis court 
for pickleball as well? With a portable rolling net - just like Central Park (one court used for 
both pickleball or tennis)
7/9/2025
Wishlist (amongst those that have played there and myself )•pickleball only lines if the plan is 
to keep that court pickleball only•leveled surface-the sides closest to the restroom is 
higher/uneven and the court closest to the bocce ball courts slants down•wind guards dividing 
the tennis/pickleball courts.It can get pretty windy where the divider net blows into the court 
area and the heavy metal benches have blown over.•having lights is great, however the court 
closest to the street could use more or brighter lighting at night time.
15 of 69

--- page 16 ---
7/11/2025
I am writing to express my strong support for making the Pickleball courts at Beresford Park a 
permanent fixture in our community. As a resident and active participant in local recreational 
activities, I have seen firsthand the positive impact these courts have had on individuals of all 
ages and backgrounds.Pickleball has grown tremendously in popularity, not just in our city but 
nationwide. The courts at Beresford have become a vibrant community hub, fostering fitness, 
social interaction, and an inclusive environment for players of all skill levels. I play there twice 
a week with a large group of participants for open play. Establishing permanent courts at 
Beresford would demonstrate the City's commitment to promoting active lifestyles, 
intergenerational connection, and smart use of public space. I respectfully urge you to 
consider the benefits of making these courts permanent and to take the necessary steps to 
prioritize this in your planning and budget. Thank you for your time and for your continued 
support of community recreation.
7/11/2025
I played with my mom for the 1st time at Beresford Park and everyone was so friendly, kind 
and accomodating. Thank you for providing us with a friendly place to play.I read the sign and I 
would like to kindly consider not just keeping the courts but fixing the cracks to avoid any 
injury. (My mom is in her 70s)
7/11/2025
I love the pickleball courts. Please keep them and consider expanding one more of the tennis 
courts into pickleball courts. Other suggestions and comments:#1 thing - wind nets!! It gets 
windy often and becomes unplayable. Wind nets would help tremendously. Get better queue 
racks. The ones at Washington park in Burlingame and Leo J Ryan at FC are much better.Two 
courts side by side are kind of tight, but still work. Nets are great. Court surface quality is great
7/11/2025
As a San Mateo resident, I am happy to say that I am enjoying the new courts in the pilot 
program at Beresford. The courts are great and I hope that we can keep them in place. One 
Change i would like to see is to hold down the divider net between the tennis court and 
pickleball courts.  The wind blows the net up in the air to easily. 
7/11/2025
I am asking that the City keep the pickleball courts at Beresford. They are a great addition to 
our city’s recreational options.
7/11/2025
This is great! Well set up, great way to meet random nice people. Please keep and expand if 
possible.
7/14/2025
Definitely continue pickleball courts, expanding as needed by demand
7/14/2025
The introduction of pickleball has been transformative, in a completely positive way, to San 
Mateo's parks. Pickleball has enabled hundreds of people to enjoy these courts that otherwise 
would never have set foot on a tennis court. Please keep the pilot going!
7/14/2025
Please allow reservations for the tennis (and pickleball?) courts.  This prevents a lot of driving 
around looking for courts.  It also generates a little revenue for the City.  Hillsborough offers 
this option.
7/15/2025
I'm writing in support of continuing pickleball at Beresford Park. I've played on the 
courts three times and really enjoy the convenient location, ease of access and use, 
and welcoming atmosphere. Honestly, I had no idea it was just a pilot program — it 
already feels like a permanent and valuable part of the park. 
16 of 69

--- page 17 ---
7/15/2025
Please keep the pickleball courts. It’s super fun and easy to learn. Builds community.
7/16/2025
Please keep the pickleball courts at Beresford Park permanent. I am within walking distance 
and use the courts regularly. Many times, there are middle school and high school age kids 
playing and I am happy to see how much they enjoy this fast-growing sport. San Mateo has a 
dearth of courts, and we need all the courts we can get. I rarely see anyone on the tennis 
court adjacent to the pickleball courts so I would love to see this program expanded
7/16/2025
One of four tennis courts was already converted to PB.  Please, no more as we tennis players 
are there and using the courts.
7/16/2025
We have played a few times at the Beresford courts.  We really need more permanent courts 
in San Mateo!  The courts have many cracks so need to be resurfaced. The courts in Foster 
City at Leo j Ryan park are built and laid out well. Having one paddle queue for 3-4 courts is 
much better than one queue per court.
7/16/2025
Please keep the courts! The space is underused otherwise, and this is a great family sport. We 
joined another family recently to play there.
7/16/2025
Please keep pickleball and tennis courts open for the community. All parks with courts should 
have tennis and pickleball to encourage outdoor play and foster community.
7/16/2025
My family have been living at 
 San Mateo for 30 years now. We used to play 
tennis at the Beresford tennis courts every weekend and find ourselves having to wait in line 
for hours at times for an open court. We have stopped playing tennis for about 8 years now 
because physically we are unable to enjoy the competitive tennis we used to like. Pickleball 
brings my wife and I back onto the courts. We started about 3 years ago and have to drive to 
Forester City or even South San Francisco to find courts to play on. We think it is a wonderful 
game. It is easy to pickup for all ages, a very efficient sharing of the court space where players 
take turns to play an 11-point games, and people of all ages and backgrounds getting to meet 
and play against each other in the queuing format. I have not seen a court games bringing so 
many people of all ages of the community together to enjoy playing and exercise at the same 
time. The Beresford Pickleball court trial program is a wonderful addition to our community 
and has done well in bringing awareness to what I think is an aspect of the game: queuing and 
sharing system of Pickleball court usage. Whereas at the San Mateo Central Park for example, 
because the lack of court use rules posting, some new players to the game are not aware of 
the wonderful court sharing system and holding courts for hours like the old tennis game! 
Please make the Beresford Pickleball courts a permanent addition to the park. It is a very 
efficient usage of the space and build new friendships among players every day for the 
community
7/16/2025
I'm in strong favor of the pickleball courts at Beresford, I would prefer if you can paint 
permanent white lines, and potentially set up rules and times for open play and rotations. 
7/16/2025
I love that you are exploring pickleball for San Mateo, Beresford. I didn't even know there was 
a pilot program going on. I go all the way to Foster City to use their courts. I do this four times 
a week. San Mateo is behind the eight ball. We need to build dedicated courts, and many of 
them. 
7/16/2025
Please keep the pickleball courts at Beresford Park.
17 of 69

--- page 18 ---
7/16/2025
Having pickleball courts has been a great addition to the park! I go at least once a week in the 
evenings and most nights the courts are full. Here are some recommended changes. Add a 4th 
pickleball court to the current 3 courts, so more people are able to play at once.Convert one 
of the other tennis courts into a pickleball court, as they are in high demand. If there are 
concerns that these courts would be missed by tennis players, then we could add removable 
pickleball nets (slide off to the side) and have the courts painted for pickleball and tennis.The 
wait system is logical, but the arrows on the back paddle holder are going the opposite 
direction than the rules say. The back right court in the right corner is slopped. If there is a way 
to fix this, that would be great. Pickleball is a lot of fun! I look forward to playing more.
7/16/2025
It's hard enough to find tennis courts in San Mateo to play with nighttime lights. Please 
eliminate the pickleball court from Beresford Park. Thank you.
7/17/2025
Please review this documentary  medical video and see how people close to courts are 
suffering with the noise.  I hope you have gathered enough data to not proceed with the PB 
courts.
7/18/2025
My friends and family have enjoyed the pickleball courts at Beresford Park and we hope it 
becomes a permanent change. I walk the neighborhood almost daily and have seen the courts 
being used throughout the day. I myself have used the courts several times and have enjoyed 
them. I would suggest tying down the bottom of the net between the adjacent tennis court so 
balls don't roll underneath. It would also be nice to have a higher net between pickleball 
courts and permanent lines. 
7/18/2025
Thank you for the opportunity to provide feedback! We love the courts and support this 
change. Looks like the tennis courts are never full anyway so converting one of them to three 
pickle ball courts only adds value to the park’s offerings to the community. Also as our 
community ages, pickleball will foster more participation from a large part of our community
7/18/2025
I have been playing at Beresford for several months now and love it. I’m on a Beresford 
pickleball WhatsApp group that now numbers 76 people. I have not used the Beresford 
facilities for years since my kids grew up and now I have a reason to come back to Beresford. I 
am there at least twice a week playing. Thank you for this pilot program. I hope it continues.
18 of 69

--- page 19 ---
From: Michael Colgan 
 
Sent: Tuesday, August 5, 2025 3:25 PM 
To: PR Commission Mailbox 
<PRCommissionMailbox@CityofSanMateoOrg.onmicrosoft.com> 
Subject: Agenda Item 3 8.6.2025 Comment 
 
I am writing in support of transitioning to ongoing pickleball at Beresford Park. My wife and I 
are San Mateo residents, have played on the pilot program courts multiple times and plan 
to continue. We are able to walk to the Park from our home, so this is fantastic! Thank you 
for your consideration. 
 
Michael Colgan 
 
19 of 69

--- page 20 ---
From: 
 
Sent: Wednesday, August 6, 2025 3:34 PM 
To: PR Commission Mailbox 
<PRCommissionMailbox@CityofSanMateoOrg.onmicrosoft.com> 
Cc: Pickle Ball <pickleball@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Fwd: Shoreview Tennis/Pickleball Courts 
 
It appears my email stripped the pictures, but did send the video I had attached to my 
earlier note. I am attaching the pictures here.  Thank you 
---------- Original Message ---------- 
From: 
 
To: "prcommission@cityofsanmateo.org" <prcommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: "pickleball@cityofsanmateo.org" <pickleball@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Date: 08/06/2025 3:30 PM PDT 
Subject: Shoreview Tennis/Pickleball Courts 
  
  
  
Good afternoon, 
  
I am new to pickleball and have taken classes through the Park and Rec at Central Park and 
I am now taking classes at Shoreview Park, as it is walking distance from my house.  It is 
such a fun sport, open to all ages, and I am enjoying learning the game. 
  
I am writing to you about the condition of the Tennis/Pickleball courts at Shoreview 
Park.  They are in very poor condition.  I've attached a short video and some pictures that I 
took on Monday night after my class.  
  
20 of 69

--- page 21 ---
The courts are cracked and warped and have grass/weeds growing through the cracks.  Not 
only do the courts look terrible but they seem unsafe and also affect play (balls hit a crack 
and go wonky).   
  
There is another player in the Monday night classes at Shoreview, who also took classes at 
Shoreview during the Spring session and she told me that during the Spring session, 2 
different players took a spill during the classes due to the cracks on the court.  
  
The courts at Central Park are in great shape.  Yesterday, I checked out the courts at 
Beresford and they look very good.  Today around noon, I walked to Joinville/Bayside court 
to look at the courts and they look good. There was a couple playing tennis on one of the 
courts at Joinville.  On my way to Joinville, I passed by the Shoreview courts and there was a 
group of 8 adults and kids playing pickleball.  I am glad to see the courts being used.  This 
also illustrates that residents are using the courts at Shoreview. 
  
I appreciate and support the upgrades that are happening at the skate park at Shoreview, 
the playground at Central Park and the recent work done on the pickleball courts at 
Beresford.  I am hoping there are already plans to repair/improve the tennis/pickleball 
courts at Shoreview so the courts will be safe, look good and play well.  If there are not 
already plans to repair/improve the courts at Shoreview, I think there needs to be. 
Compared to the courts at the 3 other City parks I have visited, it seems the courts at 
Shoreview have been overlooked/neglected and are in need of serious attention. 
  
Respectfully yours, 
  
Monica Catalan 
21 of 69

--- page 22 ---
Shoreview Resident for over 30 years

22 of 69



--- page 23 ---


--- page 24 ---
24 of 69


--- page 25 ---
Beresford Park 
Pickleball Pilot 
Program
Zachary Silva, Community Services Manager 
August 6th , 2025
1
25 of 69

--- page 26 ---
Beresford Pickleball 
Pilot Program
• Began in February 2025 after being 
presenting to Park and Recreation 
Commission in November 2024.
• Three pickleball courts lined on one 
tennis court.
• Drop-in use only.
• Collect Community Feedback.
• Feedback was gathered through: 
• Email 
• Social Media 
• Player Conversations
2
26 of 69

--- page 27 ---
Pilot Feedback
Breakdown of 98 Responses:
• Positive – 50 responses
• Negative – 7 responses
Other feedback included suggestions 
and improvements.  The responses 
reflected here are directly positive 
and/or negative.
3
27 of 69

--- page 28 ---
Positive Feedback
• 50 responses indicating appreciation 
for the pickelball courts at Beresford 
Park
• Self-reported usage
•
WhatsApp group with over 70 
members
• Requests for more courts
4
28 of 69

--- page 29 ---
Negative Feedback
• Concerns about level of noise from 
Pickleball courts (4 mentions in 
comments)
• Concern over limited access for tennis 
(3 mentions in comments)
5
29 of 69

--- page 30 ---
Additional Feedback
Input was provided on the following:
• Feedback on net movement, signage 
barriers between courts.
• Comments of interest in more 
pickleball in other parks
• Amenities such as lighting, benches, 
trash receptacles
6
30 of 69

--- page 31 ---
Recommendation
Based on overall positive feedback from 
the pilot and the investments made to 
the courts, staff recommend 
transitioning the pickleball pilot program 
into an ongoing drop-in amenity at 
Beresford Park.
Next steps would require:
• Keeping the current pilot court lines 
and equipment
• Continuing to monitor feedback from 
court users
7
31 of 69

--- page 32 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-10202
TO:
Park and Recreation Commission
FROM:
Joanne Magrini
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
August 06, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Shoreview Skatepark Project (610038) – Approval of the Proposed Improvement Plan 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the proposed improvements and authorize staff to proceed with the preparation of bid/construction 
documents for the Shoreview Skatepark.
BACKGROUND:
At the February 5, 2025, Park and Recreation Commission meeting, staff provided a project update, including a review of 
the project’s funding allocation of $446,567. Staff requested the Commission to prioritize the three preferred 
improvement options outlined in the final report. The Commission prioritized the options as follows: 
Option No. 1 - Replace flatwork/repaving 
Option No. 2 - Add sport lighting 
Option No. 3 - Expand Skatepark 
The Commission authorized staff and the consultant to prepare a final improvement plan for Option No. 1 and cost 
estimate and to bring it back to the Commission for review and approval. 
Staff worked to develop the final improvement plan and refine the cost estimate. The final improvement plan categorizes 
the proposed improvements in two categories: Base Bid Scope of Work items and Bid Alternate items. A Base Bid Scope of 
Work is the fundamental scope of work, while Bid Alternates are separate, optional components that can be added to the 
base bid price, allowing the city to make decisions on project scope after bids are received. The proposed improvement 
plan depicts the following: 
• The Base Bid Scope of Work which identifies 4,779 SF of paving to be removed and replaced. 
• Bid Alternate #1 which includes four sport lighting poles with LED light fixtures. The lighting system will be 
designed to provide an anticipated average lighting of 25 – 30 footcandles. 
The estimated probable cost of construction for the improvements are: 
• Base bid Scope of Work - $240,000. 
• Additive Alternate #1 - $100,000. The cost of the lighting system was revised from the schematic estimated cost 
of $190,000 due to the possibility of adding the new lights to the existing electrical service and wiring for the 
tennis and basketball courts. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is sufficient funding available for the Shoreview Skatepark Project (610038) for the construction contract and 
contingency.
32 of 69

--- page 33 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Final Improvement Plan
STAFF CONTACT
King Leong, Sr. Project Manager
kleong@cityofsanmateo.org
(650)522-7542
33 of 69

--- page 34 ---
ATT 1 - Final Improvement Plan 
 
 
Base Bid Scope of 
Work: 
• Retain existing street-
style skatepark 
elements. 
• Remove and 
replace the existing 
concrete paving  
 
Bid Alternate #1: 
• LED Sport Lighting 
System 
 
Legend  
34 of 69

--- page 35 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-10238
TO:
Park and Recreation Commission
FROM:
Joanne Magrini
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
August 06, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Election of Officers
RECOMMENDATION:
Elect Chair and Vice Chair of Park and Recreation Commission
BACKGROUND:
Pursuant to the City of San Mateo Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures (Attachment 1), the Park and Recreation 
Commission election of the Chair and Vice Chair should occur annually close to June 10th. Chapter 4 of the Rules and 
Procedures describes the duties of the Chair and Vice Chair, and Chapter 5 outlines the typical selection process for these 
two positions. The elected Chair and Vice Chair would preside over the next Park and Recreation Commission meeting, 
which is scheduled for September 3, 2025.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for this item.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - City of San Mateo Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures
STAFF CONTACT
Joanne Magrini, Director, Park and Recreation
jmagrini@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7404
35 of 69

--- page 36 ---
Boards and Commissions  
Rules and Procedures 
 
 
Adopted on August 17, 2015 
by Resolution No. 82 (2015) 
Amended by Council Action on:  
January 17, 2017, April 17, 2017, April 16, 2018, May 21, 2018, May 3, 2021,  
September 6, 2022, April 1, 2024, and June 16, 2025 
 
 
36 of 69

--- page 37 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
2 
City of San Mateo, Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures 
Table of Contents 
 
Chapter 1. 
Purpose and Overview ............................................................................................. 3 
Chapter 2. 
Commission Authority .............................................................................................. 4 
Chapter 3. 
Governance Principles .............................................................................................. 7 
Chapter 4. 
Duties ........................................................................................................................ 8 
Chapter 5. 
Selection of Chair and Vice Chair ........................................................................... 12 
Chapter 6. 
Commissioner Conduct .......................................................................................... 13 
Chapter 7. 
Meetings ................................................................................................................. 16 
Chapter 8. 
Meeting Agendas .................................................................................................... 21 
Chapter 9. 
Financial Matters .................................................................................................... 24 
Chapter 10. Communication ...................................................................................................... 28 
Chapter 11. Boards and Commissions Selection Process .......................................................... 32 
Chapter 12. References .............................................................................................................. 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37 of 69

--- page 38 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
3 
Chapter 1. 
Purpose and Overview  
This manual describes the way the City of San Mateo’s Boards and Commissions do their 
business. It is a compilation of all Board and Commission (hereafter referred to as 
“Commission” for the sake of brevity) rules and procedures that have been formally adopted by 
Council. These Rules and Procedures (“Rules”) supersede individual Commission bylaws.  
These Rules are intended to enhance public participation and debate so that the best possible 
decisions can be made for San Mateo. These Rules set a standard of professionalism, civility and 
decorum for the conduct of the City’s business. San Mateo has a long and proud tradition of 
open government and civil, intelligent public discourse. These rules, which must be approved by 
the City Council as a body, are subject to review and future modification by the City Council as 
needed. 
Appointed Board and Commission members are expected to understand and comply with these 
Rules and Procedures. Failure to comply with the rules and procedures outlined in this 
document may be cause for removal from the appointed position. 
Amendments to these Rules are made and approved by the City Council as a body; and are 
subject to review and future modification as needed. 
 
 
38 of 69

--- page 39 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
4 
Chapter 2. 
Commission Authority 
1. 
Commission Authority, Generally 
A. 
The primary role of City commissions is to increase public input and participation 
in the determination of City policies and some programs.  
B. 
The specific role of a City commission is to review and make recommendations to 
the City Council on matters within its scope of responsibility as defined in the 
Charter or Municipal Code. The commissions are basically a citizen’s advisory arm 
of the City Council, although certain commissions, such as the Planning 
Commission, may take final actions in certain prescribed areas. 
C. 
Most importantly, the commission serves as a vehicle for public input into City 
programs and policies referred to it by the City Council or brought to its attention 
by staff.  
D. 
The commission also serves to reduce the reevaluation of these matters before 
the City Council. 
E. 
On the specific matters referred to it by the City Council, the commission serves as 
the principal reviewing body of the City. 
F. 
Commissions adhere to the City Council’s policies on the programs under their 
scopes of interest. 
G. 
Commissions serve to represent the general interests of the entire City and not 
specific program areas or specific interest groups. 
H. 
Commissions are encouraged to express their views on issues, projects, or policies 
brought to them by the City department. 
I. 
As further described below, the Planning Commission has a distinct role with the 
City in that it makes decisions and recommendations to the Council on land use 
matters.  These include development applications submitted by project 
proponents.   
2. 
Applicability 
The complete scope of responsibilities for each commission is identified either in the 
Charter or in the City’s Municipal Code and will be provided by the Departments 
supporting the commission. When not in conflict with the Charter of the City of San 
Mateo, or the Constitution or laws of the State of California, these Commission Rules and 
Procedures (“Rules”) shall be in effect upon adoption of the Council. 
39 of 69

--- page 40 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
5 
3. 
Authority of Each Board / Commission 
The authority of the City of San Mateo’s Boards and Commissions are described in the San 
Mateo City Charter Article VI, as well as its Municipal Code Title 2 Administration and 
Personnel in Chapters 2.15, 2.21, 2.24, 2.26, 2.27, 2.28, 2.29 and 2.57. 
A. 
Library Board: 
The Library Board oversees the Library department’s policies and accepts in the 
name of the City money, personal and real property donated for Library purposes. 
B. 
Personnel Board: 
The Personnel Board hears appeals submitted by any person in the competitive 
service relative to any disciplinary action, dismissal, demotion, charge of 
discrimination, or alleged violation of municipal code chapter 2.57, and to certify 
its findings and recommendations as provided in the personnel system rules. 
C. 
Community Relations Commission (CRC):  
The CRC addresses a broad spectrum of social issues and related policy and 
provides oversight for Federal grant programs that implement public services, 
housing, and community development programs. It is also the hearing and appeals 
board for Code Enforcement related cases. 
D. 
Park & Recreation Commission: 
The Park and Recreation Commission makes recommendations to the City Council 
on acquisition, development, beautification and maintenance of public parks, 
landscape resources, public recreation facilities, budget, and programs of park and 
recreation activities. 
E. 
Planning Commission: 
The Planning Commission hears requests and makes decisions and 
recommendations on land use projects.  This body also recommends policy 
changes to the City Council. 
F. 
Senior Citizens Commission: 
The Senior Citizens Commission encourages, fosters, and facilitates programs for 
the enhancement of all matters relating to the social, economic, and personal 
well-being of the senior population. 
40 of 69

--- page 41 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
6 
G. 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
The Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission was established in 2018, 
consolidating the Public Works Commission and Sustainability Commission into 
one commission. It is the duty of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
to advise on policies and programs related to environmental sustainability, 
transportation and infrastructure. 
H. 
Investment Advisory Committee (IAC): 
The IAC serves as an administrative advisory committee to the City Manager. The 
IAC provides added insight and an independent perspective on the City’s 
investment policies and practices.  
I. 
Youth Activity Council (YAC): 
The Youth Activity Council provides experiences and opportunities for the youth 
and young adult population by: providing safe and enjoyable activities; creating 
community through special events; enhancing leadership and decision-making 
skills; providing service learning experiences; practicing civic participation and 
empowering our youth’s voice with our decision makers. 
4. 
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order 
To the extent these Rules do not address an issue of parliamentary procedure for 
legislative body meetings, Rosenberg’s Rules of Order: Simple Parliamentary Procedures 
for the 21st Century shall apply. 
 
 
41 of 69

--- page 42 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
7 
Chapter 3. 
Governance Principles 
In alignment with the City Council governance principles, each Board and Commission acts as a 
body, not as individuals. Commissioners understand and acknowledge the City is run on a 
Council-Manager form of governance and will respect professional staff’s role and the City 
Manager as leader of the City organization’s operations. Commissioners should be aware of and 
mindful of the impact of requests on limited staff resources. 
 
 
42 of 69

--- page 43 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
8 
Chapter 4. 
Duties 
1. 
Duties of the Chair 
A. 
All City commissions elect a presiding officer, known as a chairperson for a one-
year period. 
B. 
The Chair sets the tone for the entire meeting. 
C. 
To conduct meetings of the Commission as its chairperson efficiently: 
1. 
Ensure that consideration of items on the agenda move along without 
delay. 
2. 
Ensure that petitioners, proponents, and opponents are heard but not 
allowed to disrupt the meeting.  
3. 
Ensure that decorum and civility is maintained during the meeting. 
4. 
In presiding over matters where the public has provided comment or 
testimony and/or raised questions, the Chair should: 
a. 
At the end of the public comment period, restate, if any, relevant 
questions from the public.  
b. 
Direct questions or comments requiring a response to staff for a 
response.  
c. 
Ensure that staff and members of the public direct their comments 
to the chair and commission members. 
d. 
Help keep Commissioner comments and questions relevant to the 
matter being considered by the Commission, and schedule non-
agenda topics for subsequent meetings, where necessary and if 
agreed upon by the Commission during Reports and 
Announcements.  
e. 
If necessary, consider calling for a brief recess if the orderly conduct 
of the meeting is being disrupted.  
f. 
Ensure that the decision and vote of the Commission on all subjects 
is announced. This may occur with the assistance of the City Clerk, 
Staff Liaison or commission clerk. 
5. 
To ensure that each member of the Commission is provided an opportunity 
to completely express their views on items of business, the Chair should: 
43 of 69

--- page 44 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
9 
a. 
Actively seek commission member comments and ensure that 
Commissioners ask to be recognized by the Chair before speaking to 
maintain an orderly process on the dais. 
b. 
Make sure that each commission member has had a first chance at 
providing comments, before allowing another commission to make 
additional statements – unless they are asked to clarify their prior 
statement. 
c. 
Ensure that each commission member is given the opportunity to 
fully express their views. 
D. 
To correspond on behalf of the Commission, provided that opinions expressed on 
behalf of the Commission or City Government are consistent with the consensus of 
the Commission.  
E. 
Nothing under the Chair’s duties shall limit any individual Commissioner’s ability to 
interact with members of the public. 
2. 
Duties of Vice Chair 
In the absence of the Chair from the Commission meeting, the Vice Chair shall possess all 
powers of the Chair and be subject to all prescribed duties for that position. 
3. 
Duties of Commissioners 
A. 
Arrive on time for all Commission meetings. 
B. 
Review all meeting materials in preparation for Commission meetings, and direct 
questions to staff (before meetings, whenever practical) if any item is unclear or 
clarification is needed.  
C. 
Alert staff in advance of the meeting whenever possible if an item is intended to 
be pulled off of the Consent Calendar or introduced under Reports and 
Announcements for future Commission consideration. 
D. 
It is the responsibility of all members to assist the Chair in running an efficient and 
effective meeting by assisting with the orderly disposition of items, helping ensure 
all members are heard, participating fully in meaningful discussion and 
deliberation, keeping comments succinct, concise, civil and germane, and limiting 
repetitive comments. Commissioners are encouraged to hold their colleagues 
accountable for following these rules and do all in their power to contribute to the 
smooth running of a meeting for the community. 
E. 
All commission members are asked to alert the staff commission liaison when 
receiving media inquiries. 
44 of 69

--- page 45 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
10 
F. 
It is expected that Commissioners will attend all meetings. If a commissioner is 
absent for three consecutive meetings or for 15% of scheduled meetings annually, 
the City Clerk will notify Council who may take action to vacate the seat. The 
Commissioner is expected to notify the Staff Liaison or Staff Admin if they are 
unable to attend a meeting. 
G. 
For Planning Commissioners, make every effort to participate in the California 
League of Cities Planning Commissioner Academy during the first year as a 
Commissioner, and every other year thereafter. 
H. 
Read, and use as a primary reference, the Institute for Local Government’s 
Planning Commission Handbook.  
4. 
Duties of Staff Liaison 
A. 
The liaison, an assigned City staff person, has the following responsibilities: 
1. 
Create meeting schedules. 
2. 
Prepare meeting agendas and Agenda Reports. 
3. 
Notify the City Clerk of attendance problems, resignations, and members’ 
change of contact information. 
4. 
Ensure that sufficient research and analysis has been performed by staff to 
allow an informed decision by the Commission. 
5. 
Help facilitate and advise the Chair on meeting management. 
6. 
Ensure that all affected departments have an opportunity for input before 
bringing an item forward for commission consideration. 
7. 
For the Planning Commission, arrange an annual joint meeting with the 
City Council. 
B. 
The Staff Liaison, along with the City Clerk, is responsible for ensuring that 
appointed board/commission members are oriented about policies and 
procedures as they relate to the body. 
C. 
All communications addressed to a specific Board or Commission are received by 
the staff liaison, or their designee, and relayed to the appointed body. 
45 of 69

--- page 46 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
11 
5. 
Duties of Administrative Staff 
Each commission also has an administrative staff person (Staff Admin), who works with 
the Staff Liaison, to support the body. Their responsibilities are to: 
A. 
Provide oversight of agenda preparation and its delivery to the full Commission 
and to the public. 
B. 
Ensure that meeting materials--including a sufficient number of agendas, universal 
speaker slips, and at least one binder of all related reports being presented at that 
meeting–are available for the public to examine at the meeting. 
C. 
Produce the action minutes for each meeting. 
D. 
Provide annually a record of attendance of each commissioner to the City Clerk. 
6. 
Duties of Council Liaison 
A. 
Every year the Mayor will appoint Council Members to serve as liaisons to the 
City’s Boards and Commissions. 
B. 
Council Members act as an advisor and resource to Commissioners and the 
commission’s Staff Liaison when issues regarding process, procedure, 
interpersonal or public relations arise. Commissioners are also welcome to 
approach the Council Liaison for support or if they have any concerns. Council 
Members should refrain from participation at Board and Commission meetings to 
avoid influencing the outcome of those meetings. 
 
 
46 of 69

--- page 47 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
12 
Chapter 5. 
Selection of Chair and Vice Chair 
1. 
Commission reorganization, including rotation of the roles of the Chair and Vice Chair, 
occurs annually at the meeting as close as possible to June 10th of each year. The results 
of the vote should be publicly announced; and the vote recorded in the minutes. 
2. 
Nomination of commissioners to serve as Chair and Vice Chair for the coming year can be 
made by any of the current commissioners in attendance. 
3. 
The Chair and Vice Chair are elected by a majority of the commission for a one-year term 
and hold office until their successors are elected or until their terms as members of the 
commission expire. 
4. 
The normal convention is a rotation from Vice Chair to Chair. Deviation from this normal 
convention should be extremely rare and must be accompanied by stated justification by 
the Commissioner making a nomination that does not conform to the normal convention. 
5. 
The City Council believes that experience as a Commissioner will assist those who are 
selected to serve as Chair or Vice Chair, and that it is in everyone’s best interest that 
candidates have experience in cycles of governing to acclimate themselves to the jobs, 
tasks, and roles of the Commission.  
 
 
47 of 69

--- page 48 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
13 
Chapter 6. 
Commissioner Conduct  
1. 
Members are committed to governing for all, striving to avoid any appearance of 
impropriety, and running our meetings with civility, decorum, and respect. With that 
spirit, Members shall: 
A. 
Govern as a body. If we work together well as a team, our City will excel.  
B. 
Treat all with dignity, courtesy, and respect. This includes staff, each other, or 
members of the public, on and off the dais.  
C. 
Keep confidential matters confidential.  
D. 
Respect process and roles. This includes avoiding interruptions and distractions.  
E. 
Agree to disagree in a respectful manner. We focus on the issue not the person.  
F. 
Keep our comments clear, concise, and on‐topic. This respects our colleagues’, the 
public’s, and staffs’ time.  
G. 
Give each other a chance to speak. Everyone gets to speak before another of us 
speaks for a second time. We refrain from dominating the discussion.  
H. 
The Chair normally speaks last. After other members of the Commission have 
offered their opinions, the Chair speaks. The Chair can speak after each round of 
speaking by Members.  
I. 
Be mindful of the impact of our words and tone. We consider this as we address 
each other, staff, and the public.  
J. 
Promote discussion and resolution. We present problems and issues in that way.  
K. 
Follow the agenda. We begin and end meetings on time.  
L. 
Respect the City Charter, rule of law, and decisions once made. We do not attempt 
to undermine decisions.  
M. 
Speak for the City only when specifically authorized (see Chapter 10, 
Communication, sections regarding “Speaking for the City” and “Speaking as an 
Individual”).  
N. 
Practice a “no surprises” rule. We give a heads up to the Commission staff liaison, 
and City Attorney’s Office represenative (if applicable) out of respect and 
teamwork.  
48 of 69

--- page 49 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
14 
O. 
Practice the principles of inclusivity and self-awareness to guard against implicit 
bias in our actions and decisions.  
P. 
Adhere to all federal, state, and local laws in the performance of their public 
duties, including conflict-of-interest laws.  
Q. 
 Not engage in discussion with a member of the public during the meeting.1 
R. 
Determine whether to schedule a future agenda item for discussion and/or action, 
during Reports and Announcements, when non-agenda items are raised in the 
course of the meeting.  
S. 
Meet with the Council liaison to the Commission when requested. 
T. 
Pay close attention the meeting and limit the use of electronic devices while on the 
dais, except as necessary to access agenda materials or respond to urgent personal 
matters. 
U. 
When acting in a quasi-judicial capacity: keep an open mind, do not rush to pre-
judge any matter, and be fair and neutral towards all concerned parties.  This 
applies to statements that are verbal and written, including those posted on social 
media.  At the beginning of the hearing, disclose any ex parte communications 
(oral or written communications from one party outside of the hearing) and 
describe the nature and substance of the communication. 
2. 
Commissioners may not be employed by the City or provide services under a contract 
with the City. Commissioners may not volunteer in the operations arm of the department 
their commission is affiliated with, without Department Head approval. However, 
Commissioners are encouraged to volunteer for city events, put on by any City 
department, or volunteer in any capacity in other City departments. Commissioners 
enhance their presence in the community by volunteering with local non-profits or 
assisting with community events and serving on special committees. 
3. 
Commissioners are subject to all the provisions of the City’s Harassment and 
Discrimination Policy (#301). 
4. 
Commissioners shall complete ethics training at least once every two years, beginning 
with calendar year 2025.    
5. 
Enforcement. 
A. 
Where a Commissioner is allegedly not following the rules set forth in this Chapter 
(“Code of Conduct”), any concerned Council member is encouraged to resolve the 
 
1 Items Q-T are included within the existing Commissioner Conduct chapter and do not overlap with the 
new conduct. Staff recommends retaining items Q-T for this reason.  
49 of 69

--- page 50 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
15 
matter on an informal basis through direct conversations, or by referral to the 
Mayor or Council Liaison to the Commission to privately counsel the subject 
Commissioner.   
B. 
If the offense(s) continue, or if warranted due to the serious nature of an initial 
violation, two Council members may file a complaint regarding the conduct of a 
Commissioner for an alleged violation of the Code of Conduct.  The complaint shall 
be in writing and filed with the City Clerk, with a copy to the City Manager and City 
Attorney.  A copy of the complaint shall be promptly provided to the Council and 
to the Commissioner.  The City Clerk shall place the complaint on the next 
available City Council agenda for initial consideration.  The Commissioner who is 
the subject of the complaint may include a written response to be included with 
the agenda packet or may verbally address the complaint at the Council meeting, 
or both.   
C. 
At the meeting where the complaint is considered, a Council majority (3 votes) 
shall decide whether to (1) take no action, (2) reprimand the subject 
Commissioner and require them to promptly take ethics training (in addition to 
any training required by law), or (3) schedule the matter for a future hearing to 
consider a formal resolution of censure, revoke seniority, and/or restrict payment 
of expenses such as for official travel.  Alternatively, the Council may direct the 
City Manager or City Attorney to investigate the matter, or to engage a third party 
to do so, and bring it back to the Council following completion of the investigation.   
D. 
If a Council majority (3 votes) directs the scheduling of a hearing, it should also 
appoint one or two Council members to draft a censure resolution to be included 
with the agenda packet.  At the hearing, the Commissioner who is the subject of 
the complaint shall have the opportunity to rebut the allegations in the report 
either themselves or through a representative.  The formal rules of evidence shall 
not apply, and the hearing shall be generally informal.   
E. 
At the close of the hearing, a Council majority (3 votes) shall decide whether to (1) 
take no action, (2) issue a reprimand and require the Commissioner to promptly 
take ethics training (beyond what is required by law), or (3) adopt a censure 
resolution, revoke seniority, and/or restrict payment of expenses such as for 
official travel.  Any action taken by the Council is final and is not subject to appeal 
or reconsideration.   
 
 
50 of 69

--- page 51 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
16 
Chapter 7. 
Meetings 
1. 
All Commission decisions must be taken at Commission meetings only after hearing the 
presentation, project applicants, and hearing all public comments/testimony, then only 
under Commission discussion with colleagues should Commission Members opinions be 
shared, and deliberations engaged in before making any decision or taking action. 
2. 
No business may be transacted by the commission at a regular or special meeting unless a 
quorum of the membership is present (50% plus one of those currently appointed). 
3. 
Commission Meeting Dates 
A. 
If at any time any regular meeting of the Commission falls on a holiday or if it is 
known that a quorum will not be available, the meeting may be rescheduled to the 
earliest convenient time. 
B. 
The Boards and Commissions shall adopt a schedule of quarterly or more frequent 
meetings on an annual basis, which become the regular meeting dates. 
C. 
Regular meeting dates may be amended with the approval of the Commission. 
4. 
Types of Meetings 
A. 
Regular Meetings are those identified in the adopted meeting schedule. Regular 
meetings are agendized and posted at least 72 hours in advance of the meeting.  
B. 
Special Meetings are called at a non-regular meeting date and time. They are 
called by the Chair or Commission with a minimum of 24 hours’ notice, versus 72 
hours’ notice for regular meetings. 
C. 
Study Sessions are special meetings that are held for the purpose of providing 
information to the Commission, particularly on issues that are more complex or 
more time-consuming than matters typically scheduled on regular Commission 
meetings. At study sessions Commissioners may collectively provide direction to 
City staff, or to an applicant in the case of the Planning Commission. Typically, no 
action is taken at the study sessions, but direction may be given. 
D. 
Closed Sessions at the commission level would be very rare and would only occur 
at the direction of the City Attorney. The procedures for the conduct of the closed 
sessions shall be the same as those for open session meetings, except that the 
public, after allowance for public comment, will be excluded. 
E. 
Emergency Meetings are allowed per the Ralph M. Brown Act when an emergency 
situation involving matters upon which prompt action is necessary due to the 
disruption or threatened disruption of the public’s well-being.  
51 of 69

--- page 52 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
17 
F. 
Adjourned Meetings due to Power Outages 
In the event a quorum of the body loses electrical power or suffers an internet 
connection outage not corrected within 15 minutes, the meeting may be 
adjourned to a date certain. Any items noticed as public hearings will be continued 
to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Commission. Any other agenda 
items the Commission has not taken action on will be placed on a future agenda. 
5. 
Voting 
A motion, second, and a majority vote of the Commission shall be required for any formal 
action of Commission. If the meeting is virtual, or any member is teleconferencing in, the 
vote must be taken by roll call vote. 
6. 
The Chair, with the approval of a majority of the Commission, can change the order of 
hearing of items on the agenda. Staff may make suggestions on the order due to practical 
and logistical issues. 
7. 
Public Participation 
A. 
All members of the public are encouraged and invited to participate in the 
legislative process of the City’s Boards and Commissions, for example by 
submission of comments before the meeting or speaking in person, or virtually 
when offered, at the scheduled meeting. 
B. 
It is the intent of these rules to allow everyone to be heard without fear of cheers 
or jeers that may discourage public participation. For these reasons, these rules 
are taken seriously. Disruptive or unruly behavior can result in removal from the 
Commission meeting to the extent allowed by state law.  The presiding member of 
a legislative body may remove an individual for disrupting a meeting after the 
individual first receives a warning yet continues the disruptive behavior. The 
legislative body may also decide to clear the room if interruptions render the 
orderly conduct of the meeting unfeasible and order cannot be restored by the 
removal of disruptive individual(s) alone. 
C. 
Public meetings are considered a limited public forum in which the speaker must 
stay on-topic if speaking to a particular agenda item. If speaking during general 
public comment, they must address matters within the subject matter jurisdiction 
of the City. If speakers fail to follow these rules, they will be warned, and if they 
continue to disregard the rules, their opportunity to speak will be ended. 
D. 
The Chair may, at their discretion with commission concurrence, limit the amount 
of time allotted to speakers when needed, per the following time limits. 
52 of 69

--- page 53 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
18 
E. 
Generally, time Limits for public comment are dependent on the number of 
speakers: 
1. 
Individual Speakers - 3 minutes  
a. between 1 -10: 3 minutes 
b. between 11-20: 2 minutes 
c. over 21 speakers: 1 minute 
2. 
Organized group (in lieu of individual speakers) – up to five (5) minutes for 
a group presentation, as many speakers as fit within the time allowance. 
3. 
Yielding of Time. To ensure that all persons have an ample opportunity to 
be heard, all speakers will be recognized for the same amount of time. No 
speaker will be allowed to yield all or part of their time to another, and no 
speaker will be credited with time requested but not used by another. 
4. 
The Chair shall manage public comments such that no individual speaker is 
allotted a disproportionate amount of time.  
F. 
In-person members of the public are invited to speak at the lectern microphone, 
whenever available, to ensure all attendees can hear and so that the recording can 
be captured. 
G. 
Individuals who wish to speak in-person should submit a speaker card to the 
commission’s Staff Admin for in-person meetings. For remote meetings conducted 
virtually, the raise the hand feature is used and managed by the Staff Admin. The 
Staff Admin will announce the last opportunity to submit forms or raise hands and 
announce when the time has closed for public comment on any particular item. 
H. 
Commissioners should be careful to not engage in back-and-forth questions or 
discussion with public speakers. If a member of the public raises a question, the 
Chair should invite staff (or an applicant before the Planning Commission) to 
respond to any questions raised at the end of the public comment period. 
8. 
Agendized Discussion Items (Public Hearings, New Business, Old Business) 
A. 
Staff / applicant presentation 
B. 
Open public hearing (or public comment section) for testimony 
C. 
Close public hearing (or public comment section) 
53 of 69

--- page 54 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
19 
D. 
Response by staff to public questions/concerns (or by an applicant before the 
Planning Commission), if warranted 
E. 
Council questions to applicant and/or staff. 
F. 
Commission discussion and deliberation. 
G. 
Commission votes. 
9. 
Appeals 
A. 
Appeals are public hearings and will follow the order stated above with the 
following time allocations: 
1. 
Appellant – 15 minutes 
2. 
Applicant – 15 minutes 
3. 
Individual Speakers – as outlined in Section 7(E)1 above. 
4. 
Rebuttal (Applies to Appellant and Applicant) – 5 minutes each. 
5. 
Clarification (Staff may offer explanation or clarification for the testimony)  
6. 
If the appellant is also the applicant, only one 15-minute presentation is 
allowed.  
B. 
Any person that addressed the Commission during one of the fifteen-minute 
periods may not speak again during the public comment period for individual 
speakers on the appeal.  
10. Items Considered after 11:00 p.m. 
11. At 11 pm, in order to ensure effective discourse on an item, the Commission will 
determine with a majority vote on whether to continue with an item or take up any 
unheard items. 
12. Action Minutes 
A. 
The City Council and all of its Boards and Commissions shall use Action Minutes to 
record the decisions of the body. 
B. 
Action Minutes contain very little, if any, narrative content and do not capture 
details of public comments, or Commissioner comments, questions, and opinions. 
The staff is responsible for producing the minutes. Commissioners may request 
54 of 69

--- page 55 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
20 
correction only of factual errors when presented with the draft minutes. No 
supplemental materials may be appended to minutes.  
C. 
Motions and votes are shown in the record, whenever applicable. 
D. 
Media (audio/video) recordings will be used to provide a verbatim record of 
meetings and are kept as identified in the City’s Records Retention Schedule. 
13. Conflict of Interest 
A. 
The Political Reform Act (PRA), implemented and enforced by the Fair Political 
Practices Commission (FPPC), controls financial conflicts of interest.  
B. 
The other applicable law is Government Code §1090, which applies only to City 
contracts in which a public official has a financial interest. 
C. 
Whenever it appears to a Commissioner that they may have a prohibited financial 
interest in any City contract, or an item that may be presented to the Commission, 
the Commissioner should consult with the City Attorney at the earliest opportunity 
for advice on whether a disqualifying conflict of interest exists.  
D. 
If the City Attorney is consulted on such a matter, the City Attorney shall provide 
their advice in writing, and shall provide a copy of their opinion to the 
Commission, the City Council, the City Manager, the affiliated Department Head, 
and the Staff Liaison. 
E. 
With full consideration of the City Attorney’s advice, it is up to each individual 
Council Member to decide for themselves whether there is a conflict of interest. 
F. 
A member shall not vote upon or participate in any matter on which they have a 
conflict of interest. 
G. 
A member shall openly state the reason for their conflict of interest. 
H. 
A member who is disqualified by a conflict of interest shall recuse themselves from 
the dais and leave the room unless it is during the Consent Calendar 
 
 
55 of 69

--- page 56 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
21 
Chapter 8. 
Meeting Agendas 
1. 
Agenda Order 
Commission agendas will be prepared by the Staff Liaison to the commission and 
presented to the Commission in the order described below. 
A. 
Opening 
1. 
Pledge of Allegiance 
2. 
Roll Call 
B. 
Consent Calendar 
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Commission 
to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If discussion is 
desired, that item may be removed by a Commission member and considered 
separately. Members of the public may speak to any Consent Calendar item 
without the item being pulled.  
C. 
Public Comment 
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the 
agenda may address the Commission at this time. State law prevents Commissions 
from taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Comments may be referred 
to staff for follow-up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, 
an opportunity for additional public comment will be provided later in the agenda, 
if needed. Timing is per Chapter 7(E)1 of these Rules. 
D. 
Public Hearing 
Duly noticed hearings as mandated by local, state, or federal law, providing an 
opportunity for public review and comment of a proposed action by the 
Commission. 
E. 
Old Business 
Non-routine items that have been presented before that require further oral 
presentation and/or discussion before action is taken. 
F. 
New Business 
Non-routine items requiring an oral presentation and discussion before action is 
taken. 
56 of 69

--- page 57 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
22 
G. 
Reports and Announcements 
Commissioners provide an update on any meetings they attended in their 
commissioner role and Commissioners may make individual requests to schedule 
future items for consideration. A majority vote of the Commission is required to 
place a request on a future agenda.   
H. 
Additional Public Comment (if needed) 
I. 
Adjourn 
2. 
Agenda Item Submission 
A. 
The Staff Liaison coordinates all agenda items for consideration on a given agenda. 
In order to ensure that each item for discussion has been thoroughly analyzed in 
advance, an Agenda Report shall be prepared.   
1. 
The preparation of Agenda Reports applies to all Boards and Commissions 
in order to ensure: 
a. 
The Board or Commission has all the information needed to make a 
well-informed decision; and  
b. 
Any action is fully transparent to the public.  
2. 
Agenda Reports shall be part of the public agenda packet issued prior to 
the meeting. Copies of the agenda, Agenda Reports and supporting 
materials shall be made available to the public at the meeting. 
B. 
A Commissioner may request an item be considered on a future agenda and, upon 
a majority vote of the Commission, staff will prepare an Agenda Report and 
agendize the item for a future meeting. Before the vote, staff will provide 
information, if available, on how much staff time would be required to produce 
the Agenda Report. 
C. 
Members of the Public  
1. 
A member of the public may request Commission action in the following 
ways: 
a. 
Write a letter or email to the Commission.  
b. 
Speak during the Public Comment period at a Board / Commission 
meeting. 
57 of 69

--- page 58 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
23 
2. 
The first response is for the staff liaison to address concerns raised directly 
outside the meeting regarding the issue.  
3. 
If a majority of the Commission agrees, the item will be agendized at a 
future meeting. 
 
 
58 of 69

--- page 59 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
24 
Chapter 9. 
Financial Matters 
1. 
All Commissioners serve as volunteers without compensation or a stipend. 
2. 
Commissioner Expense Reimbursement Policy 
It is rare that a Commissioner would need reimbursement, but in the event that they do, 
the following policy shall apply: 
A. 
Authorized Expenses 
1. 
City funds, equipment, supplies, titles, and staff time must only be used for 
authorized city business.  
2. 
Expenses incurred while attending educational seminars designed to 
improve officials’ skill and information levels are permitted with pre-
approval from the affiliated Department Head. 
3. 
All other expenses require prior approval by the City Council. 
4. 
The City will not reimburse the following expenses: 
a. 
The personal portion of any trip. 
b. 
Political contributions or events. 
c. 
Family expenses, including partner’s expenses when accompanying 
official on agency-related business. 
d. 
Entertainment expenses, such as movies, sporting events, or 
cultural events. 
e. 
Non-mileage personal automobile expenses, including repairs, 
citations, insurance or gasoline. 
B. 
Cost Control 
To conserve City resources and keep expenses within community standards for 
public officials, expenditures should adhere to the following guidelines. If expenses 
are incurred that exceed these guidelines, the cost borne or reimbursed by the 
City will be limited to the costs that fall within these guidelines. 
1. 
Airfare 
Airfares that are equal to or less than those available through the League of 
California Cities, the California State Association of Counties and the State 
59 of 69

--- page 60 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
25 
of California are presumed to be the most economical and reasonable for 
purposes of reimbursement under this policy. If no discounted airfare is 
available through these entities, then the most reasonable and economical 
airfare possible. 
2. 
Airport Parking 
Long-term parking must be used for travel exceeding 24 hours. 
3. 
Automobile 
Mileage shall be reimbursed at IRS rates presently in effect (see 
www.irs.gov). These rates are designed to compensate the driver for 
gasoline, insurance, maintenance, and other expenses. In addition, drivers 
may be reimbursed for bridge and road tolls. For rental vehicles, only 
receipted fuel expenses will be reimbursed. 
4. 
Car Rental 
Rental rates that are equal or less than those available through the State of 
California’s website Car Rental Resources for State Travel shall be 
considered the most economical and reasonable for purposes of 
reimbursement under this policy. 
5. 
Conferences/Meetings 
If such lodging is in connection with a conference, lodging expenses must 
not exceed the group rate published by the conference sponsor for the 
meeting in question if such rates are available at the time of booking. If the 
group rate is not available, rates that are equal to or less than the group 
rate at the host hotel are presumed to be reasonable and reimbursable for 
purposes of this policy. 
6. 
Internet 
Officials will be reimbursed for Internet access connection and/or usage 
fees away from home, if Internet access is necessary for City business. 
7. 
Lodging 
Commissioners are expected to select the most cost-effective and logical 
lodging available, including utilizing the lodging at the conference/training 
site, if available. If there is not specific lodging associated with the official 
City business, the City shall pay for actual lodging expenses up to the 
United States General Services Administration (GSA) maximum rate 
allowed by location (http://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/104877). This 
60 of 69

--- page 61 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
26 
maximum applies to the room rate only and does not include any taxes or 
fees. Government rates for lodging are often available and should be 
sought. The City will pay only for standard single rooms, including taxes 
and fees, for individual Council members, and any additional nonbusiness 
expenses incurred will be paid by the Council member. 
8. 
Meals 
The City will pay for a Commissioner’s meals during authorized, required 
travel up to the per diem amount (Per Diem Rates | GSA). If meals are 
included in the cost of a conference or training, the City will not pay for a 
meal that a Commissioner elects to purchase from another source. Unlike 
lodging, using the per diem methodology for meals that is limited to the 
GSA amount eliminates the need for employees to submit receipts. Thus, 
the Commissioner only needs to report the per diem amounts in the 
expense report, but not the actual receipts. This only applies to meals, as 
all other travel expenses require a receipt to substantiate the purchase.  
When the meal function is an organized event, the official shall be 
reimbursed the amount being charged by the event organizer for the meal. 
The City will not pay for alcohol/personal bar expenses. 
9. 
Taxis/Shuttles 
Taxis or shuttle fares may be reimbursed, including a 15 percent gratuity 
per fare, when the cost of such fares is equal or less than the cost of car 
rentals, gasoline, and parking combined, or when such transportation is 
necessary for time-efficiency. 
10. 
Telephone/Fax/Cellular 
Officials will be reimbursed for actual telephone and fax expenses incurred 
on City business. Telephone bills should identify which calls were made on 
City business. 
11. 
Transportation 
Officials traveling on City business shall use the most economical mode and 
class of transportation reasonably consistent with scheduling needs and 
cargo space requirements, using the most direct, time-efficient route. 
Government and group rates must be used when available. 
61 of 69

--- page 62 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
27 
C. 
Expense Reports 
1. 
Expense reimbursement requests must be submitted on an expense report 
form provided by the City. Reports must document how the expenditure 
met the requirements of this policy. 
2. 
Expense reports must be submitted within 30 days of an expense being 
incurred; and must be accompanied by receipts documenting each 
expense.  
3. 
Expense reports are a public record. 
D. 
Audits of Expenses 
All expenses are subject to verification that they comply with this policy. 
E. 
Reports on Meetings 
Each official shall briefly give an oral report on any Brown Act meetings they 
attended for which they receive expense reimbursement at their next City Council, 
Board, or Commission meeting. 
F. 
Violation of this Policy 
Under state law, use of public resources or falsifying expense reports in violation 
of this policy may result in any or all of the following: 1) loss of reimbursement 
privileges, 2) a demand for restitution to the City, 3) the agency’s reporting the 
expenses as income to the official to state and federal tax authorities, 4) civil 
penalties of up to $1,000 per day and three times the value of the resources used, 
and 5) prosecution for misuse of public resources. 
 
 
62 of 69

--- page 63 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
28 
Chapter 10. 
Communication 
1. 
All communications are public records.  
All letters, memoranda, email, texts and other platform writing communications involving 
members of boards, commissions, committees and task forces, the subject of which relate 
to the conduct of government or the performance of any governmental function, with a 
few exceptions as outlined in the Public Records Act, are public records.  
2. 
The City Council, in adopting this policy, does not waive attorney-client privilege or any 
other privilege associated with a closed session authorized under the Ralph M. Brown Act.  
3. 
Ralph M. Brown Act 
Each Commissioner should be mindful of all the requirements of the Brown Act in 
communicating with each other. 
4. 
Correspondence 
A. 
After the Commission has taken a position on an issue, official correspondence 
should reflect this position. While Commissioners who may disagree with a position 
are free to prepare correspondence on such issues as private citizens, City 
letterhead, official Board or Commission title, and staff support should not be 
utilized. 
B. 
City letterhead, logo, insignia and brand, as well as, staff support cannot be utilized 
for personal or political purposes. 
C. 
Generally, correspondence relating to a specific Commission agenda item shall be 
distributed with the agenda report; correspondence received after the publication 
of agenda packet will be compiled and distributed to the Commission prior to the 
meeting (known as a Dais packet). This additional correspondence is appended to 
the Agenda Report as public comment on the public meeting portal and in the 
records repository permanent record. Any further correspondence received 
between posting of the Dais packet and until the end of when the item is heard, will 
also be appended to the Agenda report as supplemental correspondence. 
5. 
Electronic Communication Record Retention 
A. 
Commissioners are issued City of San Mateo email addresses and are required to 
use this email for all commission related communication. The City email may not be 
forwarded to a personal email.  
B. 
All emails sent and received through the City server are saved for at least three 
years on the City’s network and are subject to the Public Records Act. 
63 of 69

--- page 64 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
29 
C. 
Communication on social media sites are saved for at least two years. 
D. 
Text messages sent on any City-provided device are saved for at least two years. 
6. 
Social Media Use as a Commission Member 
Social media are internet-based platforms that allow for interactive communication and 
engagement with the public. For example, these may include (without limitation): 
Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, TikTok, Snapchat, Nextdoor, blogs, etc. 
The City’s image as a professional organization is critical to maintaining the respect of the 
public, and members should use discretion when posting or communicating on social 
media. If Commission Members choose to maintain and use personal social media 
accounts to conduct City business, they must follow current federal and state regulations, 
as well as Council and City policies. 
A. 
Brown Act:  Social media postings may turn into an interactive dialogue. The Brown 
Act has expanded to provide guidance on elected officials’ use of media platforms 
that are free of charge and open and accessible to the public. 
1. 
Permitted Uses: You may answer questions, provide information to the 
public and solicit information from the public about city business; share a 
City post to your Council Member site; and tag other elected officials in a 
post. 
2. 
Prohibited Uses: A majority of the members may not use social media to 
discuss agency business and a member may not respond directly to any 
posting by another member regarding agency business including no ‘likes’ 
‘thumbs up’, ‘emojis’ or other symbols. 
B. 
First Amendment. Commissioners’ social media platforms can become public 
forums subject to First Amendment requirements.  If a social media platform is 1) 
used for City business and 2) has interactive features that are accessible to the 
public without limitation, it is a public forum.  The City’s Social Media Policy 
contains rules for public participation and addresses what will constitute 
unacceptable content.  In general, officials may not block a member of the public 
from their social media sites if those sites have become public forums.  If 
unacceptable content appears on a site that has become a public forum, please 
consult with City staff. 
C. 
Public Records: Members are prohibited from deleting social media posts and 
related comments regarding any City-related matters to avoid violating the 
California Public Records Act. Social media is subject to the City’s record retention 
schedule. 
64 of 69

--- page 65 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
30 
D. 
Best practices: Officials should be honest and accurate when posting information or 
news, especially when communicating during a crisis or emergency. Any mistakes, 
misstatements and/or factual errors must be corrected quickly upon discovery. 
News of citywide importance should first be announced by the official City-
affiliated accounts then can be reshared by Commissioners. Unless the member has 
been designated to serve as a spokesperson, members should never represent 
themselves as a spokesperson for the entire Commission or City. Members should 
be mindful of recognizing that accomplishments of the City or Commission are 
achieved by collective action of the entire body or organization, not by any 
individual commissioner. 
E. 
Quasi-Judicial Capacity:  see Chapter 6 (Commissioner Conduct) for rules addressing 
the use of social media when Commissioners are acting in a quasi-judicial capacity.   
7. 
Written Communications for Commission Meetings on Agenda Items 
A. 
The deadline for the receipt of written communications for inclusion in the agenda 
packet is up to 4:00 pm one week before the Commission meeting. This is to allow 
for adequate staff review and analysis, and to ensure public access to information; 
on all plans, correspondence, and other documents being heard by the 
Commission. Contact the Commission’s Staff Liaison or Staff Admin for specifics. 
B. 
To be included in the addendum to the packet, items may be received up until 4 
pm the day of the scheduled meeting.  
C. 
Materials distributed to Commissioners during the meeting shall be available for 
viewing by the public during the meeting if the materials were prepared by the 
City or a Commissioner, or at the conclusion of the meeting if prepared by another 
person. 
D. 
If a Commissioner receives materials regarding an agenda item, they shall forward 
it the Staff Liaison as soon as possible. 
8. 
Commission - Staff Relations 
A. 
Commissioners may make requests of City staff through their Department Head for 
limited research and information. Requests that will require significant staff time, 
as determined by the Staff Liaison, may be referred to the full Commission and only 
pursued if supported by a majority of the Commission.  All requests for research 
and information shall be made through the Staff Liaison. 
B. 
Commissioners are encouraged to submit their questions on agenda items to the 
Staff Liaison as far in advance of the meeting as possible so that staff can be 
prepared to respond at the Commission meeting.  
65 of 69

--- page 66 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
31 
C. 
Clarifications or technical questions will be answered before the meeting whenever 
possible. 
D. 
Questions and all staff-prepared responses will be forwarded to all Commissioners. 
9. 
Speaking for “the City” 
Similar to written correspondence, when Commissioners are requested to speak to 
groups or are asked the Commission’s position on an issue, the response should reflect 
the position of the Commission as a whole. Of course, a member may clarify their vote on 
a matter by stating, for example, “While I voted against X, the Commission voted in 
support of it.” When representing the City at meetings or other venues, it is important 
that those in attendance gain an understanding of the Commission’s position rather than 
that of an individual member.   
10. Speaking as an Individual 
On occasion, Commissioners may wish to transmit correspondence on an issue upon 
which the Commission has yet to take a position or about an issue for which the 
Commission has no position. In these circumstances, members should clearly indicate in 
their communications that they are not speaking for the Commission or the City as a 
whole, but for themselves as an individual.   
 
 
66 of 69

--- page 67 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
32 
Chapter 11. 
Boards and Commissions Selection Process 
1. 
Refer to the San Mateo City Charter Article VI on Boards and Commissions. 
2. 
Reappointments, Vacancies and Appointments 
A. 
The City Clerk’s Office manages the Boards and Commissions (hereafter referred 
to as “Commission” for ease of reference) application process. The process begins 
with the Clerk contacting members who are eligible for appointment to a second 
term and finding out their interest in reappointment.   
B. 
The City Clerk then shares the results with each appointment subcommittee and 
receives direction on the need to schedule an appointment subcommittee meeting 
to provide direction on reappointments. The default is that currently serving 
Commissioners will each be interviewed for reappointment. However, if it is 
determined that a commissioner’s performance is outstanding, or that other 
factors necessitate keeping them in their role, then an automatic reappointment 
can occur with a majority vote or majority consensus of the City Council. Any 
commission seat selected for re-interview means the seat will be processed as part 
of the full annual recruitment and the currently sitting commissioner may be 
interviewed along with other applicants. Commission recruitment occurs annually 
in the months of April and May and is managed by the City Clerk’s Office. For these 
routine vacancies, the announcement is made approximately two months prior to 
the date on which the vacancy is to occur. 
C. 
The City Clerk recruits for all open seats utilizing multiple avenues including 
advertising, the website, social media and networking lists to present qualified 
candidates to the Council for consideration. 
D. 
The interview and selection of candidates is an open process. 
E. 
The City Clerk receives the applications (ideally a minimum of three applications is 
sought for each vacant seat) and arranges for the appropriate sub-committee, in a 
noticed special meeting, to interview applicants and form their recommendation. 
F. 
Commissioners, Board and committee members (hereafter referred to as 
“Commissioners” for ease of reference) are appointed by a majority vote of the 
City Council and serve staggered terms. 
G. 
A City Council Appointment Subcommittee conducts the candidate interviews and 
makes a recommendation for Council approval. The Council will receive the full list 
of candidates for each opening.  
H. 
The Appointment Subcommittee recommendations for new and reappointed 
Commissioners are confirmed by Council under the Consent Calendar at regular 
67 of 69

--- page 68 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
33 
Council meetings. A staff report summarizing the Subcommittees’ 
recommendations will be provided to the full City Council and will include the list 
of all candidates reviewed by the subcommittee. The Council may adopt the 
recommendations as presented or pull the item for further discussion. A majority 
vote of the Council approves the appointees. 
I. 
The designated Appointment Subcommittee may establish an eligibility list for up 
to two applicants that will remain in effect for a six-month period. 
J. 
Unscheduled Vacancies 
1. 
Subject to the Maddy Act (California Government Code § 54970), if an 
unscheduled vacancy occurs on a commission, the Council may either 
appoint from the pool of applicants on file (the eligibility list if there is one 
available) or open up the position to new applications where the above 
process is followed. 
2. 
For such non-routine vacancies, the announcement for new applications is 
made as soon as possible in order to maintain viable memberships on the 
various boards and commissions. 
3. 
All appointments occur in an open public meeting. 
K. 
Youth Activities Council (YAC) Selection Process 
The YAC is not appointed directly by the City Council but through an application 
method administered by Parks and Recreation. High school students from all of 
the City’s public high schools, as well as Junipero Serra High School and Nueva 
Upper School, are recruited for potential participation starting in the late spring of 
each year. 
 
 
68 of 69

--- page 69 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
34 
Chapter 12. 
References 
1. 
San Mateo City Charter, §2.03, 2.04, 2.12, Article VI 
2. 
Ralph M. Brown Act (California Government Code, § 54950 et seq.) 
3. 
California Government Code, § 53234 et seq. 
4. 
San Mateo Municipal Code 
5. 
California Public Records Act (California Government Code, § 6250 et seq.) 
6. 
AB 1234 California Government Code, § 53232.3 
7. 
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order 
69 of 69