Berkeley Flock alert leads to North Face theft arrest Authoritative, independent crime + safety news 2026 Gunfire Map Crime Cal Deep dives About TBS Become a member 2026 Gunfire Map Crime Cal Deep dives About TBS All the news Share tips Support TBS Crime Berkeley Flock alert leads to North Face theft arrest Emilie Raguso May 26, 2026 4:52 PM Police say Anthony Kerman returned to Berkeley about 24 hours after taking $2,400 in coats from the North Face outlet store. The North Face Outlet on Fifth Street in Berkeley. Google Street View A man wearing a stolen North Face coat, with the security tag still on, was arrested in Berkeley on Monday after a Flock camera alert, police said. The case began Sunday afternoon when North Face Berkeley reported the theft of more than $2,400 in merchandise from its outlet store on Fifth Street . A witness told Berkeley police that the driver left the scene in a Toyota Corolla, BPD said in response to a Scanner inquiry. Less than 24 hours later, Monday at 1 p.m., police got a license plate alert from the city's Flock camera system that the Corolla was back in Berkeley near Ninth and Gilman streets. Officers found the driver in the 1300 block of San Pablo Avenue, near Gilman Street, and pulled him over, BPD said. The driver, identified as 37-year-old Anthony Kerman (no address), was wearing a new North Face jacket "with the price tag and anti-theft device still attached," according to police. During a subsequent search, police found some of the coats that had been taken from North Face, BPD said, along with methamphetamine and "credit cards and checks that did not belong to him," police said. BPD arrested Kerman on suspicion of burglary, grand theft, possession of stolen property, possession of a controlled substance and identity theft-related offenses, police said. They also arrested his passenger, 41-year-old Dezary Jones (no address), on suspicion of drug offenses and outstanding arrest warrants, according to BPD. Kerman is being held on $110,000 bail at Berkeley Jail and is scheduled for arraignment Thursday at Wiley Manuel Courthouse in Oakland, according to booking records. Jones is being held on $107,500 bail at Santa Rita Jail, with the same arraignment date. She has no prior criminal cases listed in Alameda County. Kerman has been arrested in the area repeatedly in recent years, according to public records. His last charged case in Alameda County was a firearm case in Berkeley in 2022. In that case, Kerman was ultimately convicted of possession of a firearm by a felon, with the other charges dropped in a plea deal, according to court records. Related coverage Thieves steal $25,000 in gear from Berkeley North Face Six or more people pulled up to the store in two cars and then ran out with $25,000 in stolen merchandise, according to preliminary reports. The Berkeley Scanner Emilie Raguso Berkeley North Face is being targeted again by retail thieves Berkeley police are investigating several recent high-value thefts from the North Face Outlet on Fifth Street. The Berkeley Scanner Emilie Raguso Woman rappelled into North Face for burglary, police say BPD says Brezjana Wilson and two accomplices stole merchandise valued at $20,000 — but left another $30,000 in goods and a safe behind. The Berkeley Scanner Emilie Raguso Police: Man hit North Face twice in 1 day, took $5,500 in goods The shop did not report the theft during the first incident because it’s so commonplace, authorities said. The Berkeley Scanner Emilie Raguso Sign up for The Berkeley Scanner Authoritative crime + safety news Subscribe Email sent! Check your inbox to complete your signup. No spam. Unsubscribe anytime. Crime Northwest Berkeley BPD Property crimes Flock cameras Arrests Share on Read next Murder suspect arrested after Berkeley woman's death Police arrested Damarcus Jones on a warrant Tuesday morning, records show. The Scanner is the first to report this news. By Emilie Raguso Jun 2, 2026 Woman's body found in Berkeley, investigation ongoing BPD asks anyone with information to call the Homicide Unit at 510-981-5741. By Emilie Raguso May 30, 2026 Berkeley police investigate armed robbery on Russell The robbery took place during a sale arranged on social media, Berkeley police said in response to a Scanner inquiry. By Emilie Raguso May 29, 2026 Subscribe to The Berkeley Scanner Get daily headlines and essential context. Subscribe now 100% member-driven: Help TBS thrive Follow The Scanner About TBS Tips Support The Scanner News archives Newsletters Manage subscription Member sign-in Berkeley gunfire map Berkeley crime trends Police data guide Stories by neighborhood The Berkeley Scanner © 2026 | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy | RSS | Sitemap