--- page 1 ---
All the news
Share tips
Support TBS
CRIME
Man charged with stalking ex after hundreds
of phone calls
Emilie Raguso
AUG 28, 2026 8:15 PM
Police arrested Derrick Sparks, 44, after Flock alerts in two cities.
The case is set to be heard Monday at the Wiley Manuel Courthouse in Oakland. Google Street View
Support local news with a one-time gift

--- page 2 ---
A man accused of abusing his ex-girlfriend bombarded her with hundreds of calls
before confronting her in Berkeley despite a restraining order, police say.
Earlier this month, police say Derrick Sparks, 44, followed his ex-girlfriend in a
vehicle for several blocks before getting into a tense street confrontation with a man
who was with her.
During the Aug. 7 confrontation on Russell Street in South Berkeley, the woman's
mother pepper-sprayed Sparks after he spit in his ex-girlfriend's face, police wrote in
charging papers.
Berkeley police who responded to a 911 call about the incident ultimately determined
that Sparks had called the woman 18 times that day, beginning at about 3 a.m., they
wrote.
Sparks, who already had a warrant in a Berkeley domestic violence and sexual assault
case from February, was gone when officers arrived, BPD wrote.
According to charging papers, Sparks threatened to kill the woman and her children
when she tried to end the relationship.
And he was repeatedly violent with her, police wrote, at one point knocking her
unconscious.
From July 18 through Aug. 7, police say Sparks made 350 calls and sent dozens of text
messages and emails to the woman and her associates "in attempts to harass her."
Some of the messages included sexually explicit videos of his ex, police wrote.
"You're about to have me resort to extreme measures like getting your kids took,
losing your job," he wrote, according to charging papers.
On July 31, Berkeley police helped the woman get a domestic violence restraining
order to try to keep Sparks away from her, court papers show.
But it didn't stop Sparks from coming to Berkeley and getting a hotel room near her
home in early August, police wrote.

--- page 3 ---
After the Aug. 7 street confrontation, police put a felony stop on Sparks' car.
Flock cameras later helped Emeryville police spot the vehicle outside a hotel in their
city, BPD said.
Derrick Sparks. BPD
San Francisco police arrested Sparks on Aug. 8, with the 
help of a department drone, after getting their own Flock 
alert, police said.
When officers took him into custody, Sparks "denied all 
allegations of sexual assault and domestic violence," BPD 
wrote. "He did not provide a statement regarding the … 
unwanted contact." 
After his arrest, the Alameda County district attorney's 
office charged Sparks with felony stalking and two 
misdemeanor counts: annoying phone calls and battery, 
according to court papers.
Sparks, who lives in Maryland, is being held without bail at Santa Rita Jail in Dublin,
according to booking records.
He is set for a pretrial hearing Monday at the Wiley Manuel Courthouse in Oakland,
court records show.
💡
If you are being abused, call the National Domestic Violence Hotline at 
800-799-7233 or 800-787-3224.
CRIME
SOUTH BERKELEY
BPD
FLOCK CAMERAS
ARRESTS
ASSAULTS
SHARE ON
READ NEXT

--- page 4 ---
Subscribe to The Berkeley Scanner
Get daily headlines and essential context.
Subscribe now
Stolen gun recovered amid Berkeley burglary arrest
SEP 11, 2026
Why was a CHP helicopter circling Berkeley on Friday?
SEP 4, 2026
Flock alert leads Berkeley police to wanted man with gun
SEP 3, 2026

--- page 5 ---
100% member-driven: Help TBS thrive
Follow The Scanner
About TBS
Tips
Support The Scanner
News archives
Newsletters
Manage subscription
Member sign-in
Berkeley gunfire map
Berkeley crime trends
Police data guide
Stories by
neighborhood
The Berkeley Scanner © 2026 | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy | RSS | Sitemap