--- page 1 ---
All the news
Share tips
Support TBS
UC BERKELEY
Police: Pokemon card stolen in Facebook
Marketplace setup
Emilie Raguso
JUN 23, 2026 8:45 AM
6
Berkeley police say Flock license plate data and cellphone records linked
suspect Zavier Alvarez to the crime.
A Pokemon Pikachu character figure (stock photo). Michael Rivera / Unsplash

--- page 2 ---
A young man charged with stealing a $5,000 Pokemon card from a UC Berkeley
student is set to appear in court today to determine if his case will go to trial.
Zavier Alvarez is scheduled to appear Tuesday morning for a preliminary hearing,
where key evidence is presented to a judge who decides if the case can proceed.
On March 31, the victim arranged to sell the Pokemon "Pikachu" card to a buyer via
Facebook Marketplace, Berkeley police wrote in court papers.
The next night, they met in a commercial parking lot at 10th and Gilman streets at 8
p.m.
But when the victim took out the card, the buyer — a clean-shaven Black man in his
early 20s with a thin build — grabbed the card and ran north toward Gilman, police
wrote.
The victim initially tried to chase him but stopped when he saw the thief get into a
gray sedan with several other people inside, authorities said.
When the student tried to research the buyer on Facebook, he found he'd been
blocked, police wrote.
The next day, the stolen card — still in its "distinctive case with sparkle trim" — was
up for sale again on Facebook Marketplace, according to charging papers.
So the victim's friend set up a meeting with the seller, Zavier Alvarez, police wrote.
During the meeting, the victim, who was waiting nearby, recognized Alvarez from the
prior night's getaway car, according to court papers.
Meanwhile, the friend took back the Pokemon "Pikachu" card and refused to pay for it
"because the card was stolen."
During their investigation, police also linked Alvarez to the Berkeley getaway car via
Flock license plate data as well as a 2025 traffic stop in Oakland, police wrote.

--- page 3 ---
Daly City police also tied him to the Berkeley scene via cellphone records, as they
were investigating him in a different case, BPD wrote. His phone number also linked
him to a robbery case in Mountain View, they continued.
In charging papers, police wrote that Alvarez, who is 21, had been arrested in other
counties on suspicion of robbery, vehicle theft and firearm possession.
Berkeley police arrested Alvarez in early May at his home in Pittsburg, police wrote.
After his arrest, Alvarez admitted to setting up the victim to steal the card, colluding
with others and "knowingly attempting to sell the stolen card back," according to
charging papers.
The Alameda County district attorney's office charged him with grand theft and
receiving stolen property, both felonies.
Alvarez was released on his own recognizance May 8 and ordered to appear in person
at future hearings.
UC BERKELEY
NORTHWEST BERKELEY
BPD
PROPERTY CRIMES
CRIME
ARRESTS
FLOCK CAMERAS
SHARE ON
READ NEXT
Camp counselor charged with lewd acts on a child in Cal dorm
JUN 16, 2026
Camp staffer arrested after child sexual assault at UC Berkeley
JUN 13, 2026
14
25

--- page 4 ---
6 comments
Dead body found at UC Berkeley
JUN 12, 2026
5

--- page 5 ---


--- page 6 ---
Subscribe to The Berkeley Scanner
Get daily headlines and essential context.
Subscribe now
100% member-driven: Help TBS thrive
Follow The Scanner
About TBS
Tips
Support The Scanner
News archives
Newsletters
Manage subscription
Member sign-in
Berkeley gunfire map
Berkeley crime trends
Police data guide
Stories by
neighborhood

--- page 7 ---
The Berkeley Scanner © 2026 | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy | RSS | Sitemap