Flock alert leads Berkeley police to wanted man with gun Authoritative daily news about public safety and politics in Berkeley, California 2026 Gunfire Map Crime Cal Newsletters Deep dives About TBS Become a member 2026 Gunfire Map Crime Cal Newsletters Deep dives About TBS All the news Share tips Support TBS Crime Flock alert leads Berkeley police to wanted man with gun Emilie Raguso Sep 3, 2026 9:09 PM The unregistered loaded handgun had a switch that allowed it to fire automatically, police said. A loaded gun seized Wednesday in Berkeley after a Flock alert on Grizzly Peak. Berkeley police A Flock alert Wednesday helped Berkeley police find a wanted man with a loaded gun in his waistband, authorities said. The alert, for a vehicle linked to a domestic violence and firearm case from January, initially came in from Grizzly Peak Boulevard shortly before 4 p.m. Berkeley police said they found the wanted driver in the 1600 block of Solano Avenue a few minutes later. When police arrested the driver, Carvaan Williams , they found a loaded gun in his waistband, police said in response to a Scanner inquiry. The gun had an extended magazine and a switch that allowed it to fire automatically, classifying it as a machine gun, police said. Williams, 21, of Berkeley was arrested on suspicion of several gun crimes, according to booking records. The January case stemmed from a 911 call on Ellis Street at 3 p.m. Jan. 2. That day, police arrested Williams on suspicion of domestic violence and multiple gun crimes. At the time, the district attorney's office sent the case back to Berkeley police for more investigation. Carvaan Williams. BPD After police found Williams' DNA on a gun seized in January, they secured a warrant for his arrest, authorities said. That warrant ultimately led to this week's Flock alert. On Thursday, the Alameda County district attorney's office charged Williams with six felonies spanning both cases. Charges included two counts of possession of a machine gun as well as allegations that the guns were unregistered, according to charging papers. Bail was initially set at $370,000 in the two cases, but no amount was listed as of publication time. Williams is scheduled for arraignment Friday at Wiley Manuel Courthouse. Sign up for The Berkeley Scanner Authoritative public safety and politics news coverage in Berkeley, CA Subscribe Email sent! Check your inbox to complete your signup. No spam. Unsubscribe anytime. Crime North Berkeley Berkeley Hills South Berkeley BPD Guns Arrests Share on Read next Stolen gun recovered amid Berkeley burglary arrest The suspect was identified as 42-year-old Ajuwon Muhammad. By Emilie Raguso Sep 11, 2026 Why was a CHP helicopter circling Berkeley on Friday? The call began with a brandishing report on the freeway. By Emilie Raguso Sep 4, 2026 Man charged with stalking ex after hundreds of phone calls Police arrested Derrick Sparks, 44, after Flock alerts in two cities. By Emilie Raguso Aug 28, 2026 Subscribe to The Berkeley Scanner Get daily headlines and essential context. Subscribe now 100% member-driven: Help TBS thrive Follow The Scanner About TBS Tips Support The Scanner News archives Newsletters Manage subscription Member sign-in Berkeley gunfire map Berkeley crime trends Police data guide Stories by neighborhood The Berkeley Scanner © 2026 | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy | RSS | Sitemap