--- page 1 ---
All the news
Share tips
Support TBS
CRIME
Flock alert leads Berkeley police to wanted
man with gun
Emilie Raguso
SEP 3, 2026 9:09 PM
The unregistered loaded handgun had a switch that allowed it to fire
automatically, police said.
A loaded gun seized Wednesday in Berkeley after a Flock alert on Grizzly Peak. Berkeley police

--- page 2 ---
A Flock alert Wednesday helped Berkeley police find a wanted man with a loaded gun
in his waistband, authorities said.
The alert, for a vehicle linked to a domestic violence and firearm case from January,
initially came in from Grizzly Peak Boulevard shortly before 4 p.m.
Berkeley police said they found the wanted driver in the 1600 block of Solano Avenue
a few minutes later.
When police arrested the driver, Carvaan Williams, they found a loaded gun in his
waistband, police said in response to a Scanner inquiry.
The gun had an extended magazine and a switch that allowed it to fire automatically,
classifying it as a machine gun, police said.
Williams, 21, of Berkeley was arrested on suspicion of several gun crimes, according
to booking records.
The January case stemmed from a 911 call on Ellis Street at 3 p.m. Jan. 2. That day,
police arrested Williams on suspicion of domestic violence and multiple gun crimes.
At the time, the district attorney's office sent the case back to Berkeley police for
more investigation.
Carvaan Williams. BPD
After police found Williams' DNA on a gun seized in 
January, they secured a warrant for his arrest, authorities 
said. That warrant ultimately led to this week's Flock alert.
On Thursday, the Alameda County district attorney's 
office charged Williams with six felonies spanning both 
cases.
Charges included two counts of possession of a machine 
gun as well as allegations that the guns were 
unregistered, according to charging papers.

--- page 3 ---
Bail was initially set at $370,000 in the two cases, but no amount was listed as of
publication time.
Williams is scheduled for arraignment Friday at Wiley Manuel Courthouse.
CRIME
NORTH BERKELEY
BERKELEY HILLS
SOUTH BERKELEY
BPD
GUNS
ARRESTS
SHARE ON
READ NEXT
Stolen gun recovered amid Berkeley burglary arrest
SEP 11, 2026
Why was a CHP helicopter circling Berkeley on Friday?
SEP 4, 2026
Man charged with stalking ex after hundreds of phone calls
AUG 28, 2026

--- page 4 ---
Subscribe to The Berkeley Scanner
Get daily headlines and essential context.
Subscribe now

--- page 5 ---
100% member-driven: Help TBS thrive
Follow The Scanner
About TBS
Tips
Support The Scanner
News archives
Newsletters
Manage subscription
Member sign-in
Berkeley gunfire map
Berkeley crime trends
Police data guide
Stories by
neighborhood
The Berkeley Scanner © 2026 | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy | RSS | Sitemap