--- page 1 ---
All the news
Share tips
Support TBS
CRIME
Berkeley Flock alert leads to North Face theft
arrest
Emilie Raguso
MAY 26, 2026 4:52 PM
Police say Anthony Kerman returned to Berkeley about 24 hours after taking
$2,400 in coats from the North Face outlet store.
The North Face Outlet on Fifth Street in Berkeley. Google Street View

--- page 2 ---
A man wearing a stolen North Face coat, with the security tag still on, was arrested in
Berkeley on Monday after a Flock camera alert, police said.
The case began Sunday afternoon when North Face Berkeley reported the theft of
more than $2,400 in merchandise from its outlet store on Fifth Street.
A witness told Berkeley police that the driver left the scene in a Toyota Corolla, BPD
said in response to a Scanner inquiry.
Less than 24 hours later, Monday at 1 p.m., police got a license plate alert from the
city's Flock camera system that the Corolla was back in Berkeley near Ninth and
Gilman streets.
Officers found the driver in the 1300 block of San Pablo Avenue, near Gilman Street,
and pulled him over, BPD said.
The driver, identified as 37-year-old Anthony Kerman (no address), was wearing a
new North Face jacket "with the price tag and anti-theft device still attached,"
according to police.
During a subsequent search, police found some of the coats that had been taken from
North Face, BPD said, along with methamphetamine and "credit cards and checks
that did not belong to him," police said.
BPD arrested Kerman on suspicion of burglary, grand theft, possession of stolen
property, possession of a controlled substance and identity theft-related offenses,
police said.
They also arrested his passenger, 41-year-old Dezary Jones (no address), on suspicion
of drug offenses and outstanding arrest warrants, according to BPD.
Kerman is being held on $110,000 bail at Berkeley Jail and is scheduled for
arraignment Thursday at Wiley Manuel Courthouse in Oakland, according to booking
records.
Jones is being held on $107,500 bail at Santa Rita Jail, with the same arraignment date.
She has no prior criminal cases listed in Alameda County.

--- page 3 ---
Kerman has been arrested in the area repeatedly in recent years, according to public
records.
His last charged case in Alameda County was a firearm case in Berkeley in 2022.
In that case, Kerman was ultimately convicted of possession of a firearm by a felon,
with the other charges dropped in a plea deal, according to court records.
Related coverage
Thieves steal $25,000 in gear from Berkeley North Face
Six or more people pulled up to the store in two cars and then ran
out with $25,000 in stolen merchandise, according to preliminar…
The Berkeley Scanner • Emilie Raguso
Berkeley North Face is being targeted again by retail
thieves
Berkeley police are investigating several recent high-value thefts
from the North Face Outlet on Fifth Street.
The Berkeley Scanner • Emilie Raguso
Woman rappelled into North Face for burglary, police say
BPD says Brezjana Wilson and two accomplices stole
merchandise valued at $20,000 — but left another $30,000 in…
The Berkeley Scanner • Emilie Raguso
Police: Man hit North Face twice in 1 day, took $5,500 in
goods
The shop did not report the theft during the first incident because
it’s so commonplace, authorities said.

--- page 4 ---
CRIME
NORTHWEST BERKELEY
BPD
PROPERTY CRIMES
FLOCK CAMERAS
ARRESTS
SHARE ON
READ NEXT
The Berkeley Scanner • Emilie Raguso
Murder suspect arrested after Berkeley woman's death
JUN 2, 2026
Woman's body found in Berkeley, investigation ongoing
MAY 30, 2026
Berkeley police investigate armed robbery on Russell
MAY 29, 2026

--- page 5 ---
Subscribe to The Berkeley Scanner
Get daily headlines and essential context.
Subscribe now

--- page 6 ---
100% member-driven: Help TBS thrive
Follow The Scanner
About TBS
Tips
Support The Scanner
News archives
Newsletters
Manage subscription
Member sign-in
Berkeley gunfire map
Berkeley crime trends
Police data guide
Stories by
neighborhood
The Berkeley Scanner © 2026 | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy | RSS | Sitemap