source: packet.pdf
sha256: 29a4824c375210d29bcaeccb0b3ae8af7e4f4b28cd9cd9d0a7e41750a05f1911
pages: 137
ocr_pages: 127
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
September 3, 2024
5:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber 330 W.
20th Avenue San Mateo CA 94403
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Lisa Diaz Nash, Mayor
Rob Newsom Jr., Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Amourence Lee
Adam Loraine
 
REVISED AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: September 3, 2024
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 830 7090 4206      Passcode: 197378
Item #3 was added to the agenda on August 30, 2024
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the consideration of these items. Following the meeting a report of action
from Closed Session will be provided if required.
1.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation, Workers’ Compensation
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9
Names of cases: Phaymany Syvongxay and John Bouthillier
2.
Conference with Labor Negotiators (Government Code Section 54957.6)
City designated representatives: Yumi Maeda, Karen Huang, Abby Veeser and Stacey Cue.
Employee Organizations: Police Sergeants’ Association, San Mateo City Employees Association, SEIU Maintenance
and SEIU Non-Merit Part-Time
3.
Conference With Legal Counsel - Anticipated Litigation
Initiation of litigation pursuant to paragraph (4) of subdivision (d) of Section 54956.9: (One case)
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of this item.
4.
San Mateo Police Department Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis - Presentation
Receive an informational presentation from Citygate Associates regarding the Staffing Needs Assessment and
Organizational Analysis of the San Mateo Police Department.
1 of 137

--- page 2 ---
CEQA: This presentation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 137

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-5141
File ID: 24-9014
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
September 03, 2024 
SUBJECT:
San Mateo Police Department Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis - Presentation 
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an informational presentation from Citygate Associates regarding the Staffing Needs Assessment and 
Organizational Analysis of the San Mateo Police Department.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo retained Citygate Associates, LLC, to conduct a staffing needs assessment and organizational 
analysis study of the Police Department. Citygate staff will provide an informational presentation to include review of 
adequacy of current and future staffing levels, and organizational structure. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this informational presentation. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This presentation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Dave Peruzzaro, Police Captain
dperuzzaro@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7684
3 of 137

--- page 4 ---
CIT YGATE

P OtLtI C ECE S ER V IC E S

STAFFING NEEDS ASSESSMENT
AND ORGANIZATIONAL ANALYSIS
OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT

CITY OF SAN MATEO, CA

JUNE 13, 2024

CITYGaATE
WWW.CITYGATEASSOCIATES.COM

600 COOLIDGE DRIVE, SUITE 150 PHONE: 31) 458-5100
FOLSOM, CA 95630 FAX: (916) 983-2090



--- page 5 ---
5 of 137

--- page 6 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section Page
Executive SUMIMAary ............cccscccsccsscsssesscsssscscssesscssssssscssesssssocssseesscsscsssscessscsescssescsssscesscsssccsssossccsssscssscessscssoscsssosscess 1
Policy Choices Framework........ccccccccescsseeseeseeseeseeseeeeeececeeeceecaeeaeeaecaesseeaecaeeaeaeeceaceaesecesececesseseeeeaeeaeeaees 1
General Summary of Citygate’s AsSeSSMent ...........cccccceeseeseeesceseeeseeseeeseesecceesecsecseceaeceeeeaeesesaeeeseseenseenees 2
Summary of Police Services Findings by Topic .......ccccccsssesesseeeeeeseeeesseeeeseeeseessteeeeeeeseesaeeees 3
List of Recommendations and Funding Priorities ..........ececeeesceseeseeeeeeseeseeseescceeceececeeeceeeneeeeeeaeeaeeaees 5
Section 1—Introduction..............sccsccscssccscssesscssssssssssscsssssssssssssssssesssesessessescssssscessescessessseaseesseseesessesssesesssssessossessesseses 11
1.1 Report Organization .........ccceceecssceseeseeseeseeseeseescecceceeecaecsessecaecsesseeseeseeaeesesaeeceeseseeeeeeeceeseeceeaeeaeeas 11
1.2 Project SCOPE ....ecesceseescescceeeseceseeseeesececeeseceseesecneecseeeseeaeensecaeeesecneesesaeesesesesseeeaeceeeaeseeeeeeeseeaeeats 12
1.3 Project Methodology.....e.eccecsscssseseeseeseeseeseeseecceececeseesecseseecaeeaeeaessecsesaesaeaeeaeeaseeeeseeseceseeeeaeeateas 12
1.4 Acknowledgement ...........ccccceccessessesssesseeceeseeecesecseensecsecesecseeesecsaeesesaeeseceaeeseeesesseenaeeeeeaeeeeeeaeenes 13
Section 2—Organizational Review ..............sscccsssscsssssscessssscsssssssssscssssescssssesssssscessesseessessessscssssssessnsssessssssesssessoesoes 15
2.1 City Background .......cccccccccescesseeseesseeseeeseeseeeseesecesesseeeseceeesesesecaecesessaeeseceeeseceeesseenseeneeeaeeneeeaeeaes 15
2.1.1 Form of Government... cccccccccscccssscssecceeeeeseeceseceseecessessaeeeseceseeensecseeeeeseeeeeeeseeeeaeeeseeees 15
2.1.2 Population Trends ..........cccceesceeceesceeseesceeseesceeseeseeeseeseeesececeaeeeaeeaeesseeaeeeaeeeeeeseeeseeeenaeeeens 16
2.2 Agency Background and Organizational Structure ............ccccesceseeseeseeceeceeececeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeaeeaees 17
2.3 Benchmark Analysis ..........ccccccceccesceesceseesseeseeeseeseeesecsecesecseesaesaecseeeaesseeeseseaeeseceaeeaeeeaeeeeeaeeneeeaeeaes 18
2.3.1 Staffing Benchmark... cece ecccccecceccsceeecseeseeseeseeseeaeaecesceeaeeacsescceesecseeeeseseeeeeaeeaeeaes 19
2.3.2 Rank Structure Benchmark ..00........eceeceececceeseesceeseeseeeseeeeeeseceeeeseeeaeeaeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeseeeaeeatens 19
2.3.3 Policing Cost Benchimark.........ececccecceecceseesseeseesceeseeeeeseeeeeeseceseeseeeaecaeeeseseeeeaeeeseeeeeeseatens 20
2.3.4 Perspective for San Mateo.....cccccccccscssesseessesseessessecsecessesseeseceseeseceseceeeseseeeeecseeeeesseeseens 20
2.4 City Crime Data — Uniform Crime Reporting .0..... ce eeeeeseeseeseeseeseeseeseeeeeeseeceesseesesaesesaeeaeeaeeas 21
2.4.1 Part 1 Crimes Definition .........cccccccccceseessceseesscesecsecesecsscesecesscseeeseseeeesecseeeseseresseeseeeaeees 21
2.4.2 Crime Rate Comparison.........ececcecceceecceceessesseeseeseeseeaececesccscccceeseecseesecsesecseseeseeseeaeeaes 21
2.4.3 Perspective for San Mateo... ie eeeeecsssessessecsessecsesseesesscescesceeceececeeseeceeeceseseeesseeaes 24
2.5 Leadership and Culture ......c.ccccccccccccessesssessessceseeeseeseceseeeeeseecseeseeesecseeesecsaeesecssesseenseeseesseeseeeasenes 24
2.6 Employee SWOT Survey.......ccccscccccesssceeseceseeeeesececeseceeesaeceeeeseceneeseceneeseseaeeseeeaeeaeeeaeseeeeaeeeseeateass 25
Section 3—Field Operations Services Review............sccssccsccsscsssccccssccsesssccsesssssssesssssccsssscssssscesssescsssssscsessossoes 27
3.1 OVELVICW... oe ceccceccecesseeseeeseeseeeseeseeeseesaeesecsaeeseceaeesecesecseeeseceeeaeseaeeseeesesseeeaecaaeeseceesaeeeaeeaeeesesereeasenes 27
3.1.1 Field Operations Division ..........ecececceeeseeceeeesecseeseeseeseeaeeceeaeacceeceeeeeeceeseeceseeeeeeeaees 27
3.1.2 Geographic Deployment ..0....... ec eeceeceeseeseeeseeeeeeseeeeeeseceeeseeseeeseccecseeeaeeeeeaeeeeeaeeneeeaeenes 29
3.1.3 Patrol Staffing and Scheduling... cece eecceeesececeeseeeeeeseeeseeaeeeseeeeeseceeeeeceeeeeenseeseees 30
3.1.4 Personnel Vacancies and Recent Attrition ........cccceceseeseesseeseesseeseeseeeseeseeeseenseeteesseessens 32
3.1.5 Supervision and Division Structure.........ecccccecescesseseeseeceeseeseeseeseeeeeeceeceeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaees 33
3.2 The ICMA “Rule Of 60” oo... cccceceeccceseescesseeeeeseeseeesecseeeseceeesesesesseensecseeeseceecseceaeeseeeaeeaeeeaeeneeeaeenes 34
3.2.1 Resource AOCation .......ccccccccccsccsscesscsscesscesecsscesscsscesecaccsecsseesscseeseeesecsecessesesesseneeeseenes 34
3.2.2 Workload Efficiency .........cccecesceescesceeseeeceesecseeeseceeeseceeeseceeeaeeeaeeseeeaeeaeeeaeeaeeeaeeereeaeenss 35
3.2.3 Applying the Rule of 60.0... eee ecceceeseeseceseeeeeeseeeeeseceeeeseeeseeseensecseeeseseeeeseeereeeeseeeatens 35
3.3 Workload Analysis .....cccccceccesssesssseeseseeseeeesceeeseeesseeesseeecscessseeecseeessesscaeeseeesseeesseeesaeeesaeeesseeeeaeeeens 36
3.3.1 Department Calls for Service ......ccccceccessesesssesseeseeseeeeesscesecesecseeesesseceseseeessscesesseeseeneens 36
Table of Contents
i

6 of 137

ES


--- page 7 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

3.3.2 Patrol Calls for Service .......ceceeceeceeseesceseeseseeseeseeseeseeseeseaeeacseeaceacecsecseeaeseeeaeeaeeaeeateaeeaees 38

3.3.3. Problem Code Analysis.......icccceccsesscsecsseneesessecsessessessessessesscseceeecseeseeseseeaesaeeaeeaeeates 41

3.4 Response Time Anal ysis..........ccccscssessseseeseeseeseeseeeeeesecsecaecseeseeseeseeaeesesaesaeaeeeceeeesaeeeeeaeeecaesaeeateas 44
3.4.1 Understanding Fractile versus Average Measurement............::ccccesceseeseeeeeeseeeeeeseenseeeens 44

3.4.2 Patrol Response Time AnalySis........cccccceccecccescesseeseeeceesceeseeseceseceenseceeeseeeeeeseseeeeeenseeaeens 45

3.4.3 Priority Call Type Amalysis......e.eceeceeccseecsseeseeseeseeseeseeseesceseeceeececeeeseeecseesecaeeaeeeeaeeaeeaes 46

3.4.4 Geographic Analysis ........:.ccccceseeseesceseesteeeseesecseeseeseeseeseeaeaescesaceaeeeeeesesseseeseeeeaeeaeeeeaees 50

3.5 Temporal Analysis ........ccccccceccceceeseeeseeseeeseeseeeseeseeesecsecesecseesaecesecseeeaesseeeseceaeeseceaeeseeeaeeaeeeseeneeeaeenss 51
3.5.1 Public-Generated Incidents and Committed HOurs...........ccecesceeseeseeereceeeeeeneeeeeneeeseenes 52

3.5.2 Committed Hours occ ececeecsscsceseceecseeeesesseesesseeseeaesseesceeesaeecsesessesesaeeseeaesaeeaeeaeeaeeaes 53

3.6 Patrol Utilization .......eeceecceseceseeseeseeseeseeseeseecceeesecsecsecseseesaecsecsesseeseeaeeseasceeeseeaeeesecerseeesaeeateas 54
3.6.1 Patrol Utilization Modeling ........ ce eccecceseesceseesceeseeeceeseceeeeseceseeaeeeseseeenseseneeeeeaeeeenaeeeens 55

3.6.2. Community Service Officer Utilization 0.0... ccecccseesseseesscesecsseesecseesseeseeeseenseseesseeneens 56

3.7 Traffic Analysis ....... cee eeesesecssesscssesseesessceseeececsececaecsessessecsesseesesseesesscesssaseeseeaseeseeaeesesaesaeeaeens 59
3.7.1 Traffic Incidents OVerview .0.....ececceceecceceeeesesseeseeseeseeseesescescescesccseceeeaeeecaeesececeeaeeeeaeeaes 60

3.7.2 Traffic Distinct Incidents 2.2.0... ececeecceeeceeceecceeeseeseeseeseeseeccesesacecesecseeseeseceeeseeaeeaeeaeeaees 61

3.7.3. Traffic Collisions Analysis... eeeeeeseseesecsecsesseeseeseeseescsscsecsaeeecsecaseceseesseseeneeseeaee 62

3.7.4 Office of Traffic Safety ReVIiCW.........cccececcceseesseeseeeeeeseceseeseceseeseeeseeeeeseseeeeeesseeseesaeeatens 64

3.8 Data Analysis Summary ..........cccesceeseeseeeseeeceseeeeesecseeeseceeesecnecseceseceessecaesseseeeaeeeaeeaeeeaeeeeeaeeees 66
3.8.1 SMPD 2016 Staffing Study... eee eceecsessesseeseeseeseeseesceseeaeesceeseeseeseeceseeceseseeaeeaeeaes 66

3.8.2 Patrol Schedule Assessment...........ceccecceceecsseeseeseeseeseeseeseseeceeseecceceeeeeecseeecesaeeeeaeeaeeaes 67

3.8.3. Minimum Staffing Levels Assessment ............cccccescesceseeseeseeseeseeceeceeeeeeesecaeeseeeeaeeaeeaeeaees 69

3.8.4 Simulated Schedule and Staffing Model... eeeeeeecescesceeeeeceeceeceeseeeeeeeeeaeeseesee 71

3.9 Findings and Recommendations ............ccesceseeseeceeseeeeeesseeseeseesesseesesesacsaeeceeceeeeeaeeaeeaeeaeeaeeseeaeeas 73
3.9.1 Famdimgs oe. eee ccececesecscesseeeceeseeeeeeaeceneeseceaeeseceaeeaeesaecseeeseceeeesecesesaeeeeesaeeeseseeeeseceneeeeeneeeees 73

3.9.2 Recommendations ....... cc cceceseesessesecsecseeeececseeseeseeseeseeseesceseeseeaeeeseaceeseecaesnecsesecsesaesaeeaes 75

Section 4—Support Services / Investigations Review .............sscsssssssescessssesssscssssseesssscsssssessssecssessssseseesesseeseesenee 77
4.1 OVETVICW... oe. ceceecceccescseeseeseeseesecsecseesessessessesscsscsecsacsecsecsessesaecseesessessesaesesseaeeeceeceesaeeeeeateneeaeeaeeaeeas 77
4.2 Investigations Services Bureau... ecesceseeceseeeeeecneceecsessecseesessesscesessceseesceeseecsesseseesaessessesaeeaeeas 77
4.2.1 Lieutenant of Investigations .0.......cceceeeecesceseeseeseeseeseeseeceeceeeceeceeeeeeeeseeeeeaeeaeeaeeeeaeeaeeaeeas 78

4.2.2 Detective Sergeant .........ecececceecceseceeeseceseeeseeseceeesecsceesecsceesecesecseeeaeseeeseseeesaeseeeeeeeaeenees 78

4.2.3 Case Detectives 0c eecececcscseesessecseesecesecseesecsessecsessceeesaeeseesceceseceeeesaesaeeaessesaeeaeeaseas 78

4.2.4 Case Management .0......cecceecccssscesneceseeeeeceeeescecsceceneceeeseneceaueceaeeeeeseeceeaeeeaeseeeeseneeenees 79

4.2.5 Community Service Officer (CSO) and Digital Forensic Specialist..........ccceeeeeeeeeees 80

4.2.6 — Life360 woe. eeececeeccescescecceceeececseesecsecsecsesaecseeaesaesaesaesaeeaesaescesaesecseseceeesaeseeseeeeseeesaeeaeeateas 81

4.3 Youth Services Unit / Police Activities League ........ccececceeceescceeesseeseeeeeeseeeeeseseesseeneeeseeneeeseenes 81
4.3.1 Youth Services Unit ......cccccccccccceccsceseesecseeseeseeseeseeseeseeeescesaesacseseeesecesseceeaeseeaeeaeeaeeas 81

4.3.2 Therapy Ko... ce ecceccsesecsecneeseceecneesessessecsessessessesseeseesesseesseecseseseesaeseesaesesesesaesaeeaeeas 83

4.3.3 Police Activities League........cceceeccescesceeseesseeseeeeeeseceseeseceseesecesesaeseaeceeeaeseeeeaeeeseeeeeaeeaees 84

4.4 Administrative Technician ...........ceccecceseesceseeseeececseeseesecseesesaeeaesaeaescesceseeecsesseeaeeeeseeaeeaeeaeeaeeaees 84
4.5 Findings and Recommendations ............cccecccescesceeseesseeseeeseeseeeseeseeesesseeesecsaeeseceesaeeeeeseeeseeseeeseenes 85
AS. Findings... eee ececceescesceeeeseeesceeeeeseceseesecesecaeeeseseeeseseeeesecececseeeaecseseseceeeeaeeeeecaeeeaeeneesseeates 85

4.5.2 Recommendations .0.......seeeeesesesseeseeseeeeseesesseesesseeseeaeeeesaesaseeceeseaseesesesaeseeeaesaesaeeaeeatens 85

Table of Contents page ii

EGLEYGATE
ASSOCIATES a

7 of 137


--- page 8 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Section 5—Business Management and Executive ASSistance ............scssccscssssssscsscsssccsssssccsssccssssssssssssessssesssessssoes 89
5.1 Business Manager ........ccccccccescesseessessceseeeseeseenseeseceseeseceseceeesecesecsesesesseeeseceeeeseceeesseenseeceeeeeseeeaeeaes 89
5.2 Executive ASSIStant........cccccceescesececeeseeeeeeseceseesecesecseeesecseeesecseeesecaesaeeenecseseaeeeseaeeaeeeaeeneeeaeenseeateats 89
5.3 Findings and Recommendations ............ccccccceescesseeseesseesseeseeseeeseeseceseeseceseeeeeseesseeseeeeeeseeeseenseeaeenes 90
S.3.1 0 FImdin gs... eee eeseeeseeseesessessceseeecececsececseesecsecsessesaessesseesceeeseceasecsessasesesesseseeeaesseeaee 90
5.3.2 Recommendations 00.0... cceececceeescseeseeeeceeceeecseeaeeseesesseeaeeeceaeeeseasseceeeeeeeseeseeaesaeeaeeaesaees 90
Section 6—Police Technical Services Review ............ssccssssccssssscssscssssssccssssccsssssssssssssssscssssssnssssscssssssssssesssessssoes 91
6.1 Police Technical Services Division .........cccccceccccseesseeseeseceseeseeesecseeesecseceseceeeesecesecseesseeeeeseeneeeaeeaes 91
O.L.1 Umit OVerVieW oo... eee ceceecceeceesceseeeseeeseeseceneeseceseeaeeeaeeseeaeceeeeaeseaeeseesaeeeecaeeeeeseceaeeneenneeatens 91
6.2 Public Safety Dispatch... cccccccccssccssesseessesseeseeeseesscesecseceseceseesecesecseceseceeeessessecseceseseesseeseeeasenes 92
6.2.1 Recruitment and Retention... cece cccccccscesccsseceseeeesseeseeessecsseeeesseeseeeeseeeseeeseeeeseeeseeees 94
6.2.2 Capacity and Scheduling... cece ecceceeseescceseeseeeseeeeeeseceeceseceseeaeeeseseeeseeeeeeseseneeneeeaeeatens 95
6.2.3 Workload and Performance.........ecceccecseeecssesseeseeseeseeseeseeseeseeaeececseeseeeecaeeececeeneeaeeaeeaes 97
6.2.4 Other (Anecdotal) Considerations.........ccccccccscsesssesscessessecssceseceeesecseeesecseeeseceseeseesseeatees 99
6.3 ReCOTS 00... eeeceeeeceeeeseeseeseeseesessesseesesseeesaesaesecsccsaesecseesecsecsesseesesseeseeaseseeaesaeeasesseseeaeeaessesaesaneaes 100
6.3.1 Workload and Capacity... ccceecceceecceceeeeeesceseeseeseeseeaeeseccsaeeesassaeeeenecseseeaeteeaeeeeated 100
6.3.2 Staffing and Job Specifications oes eseesesseesesseeeesessceeessceeeeeeeeeeecesseeseseeaeeaesaeed 101
6.4 Property and Evidence .........ceceecesceseeseeseeseeseeeecceceeecsecseesecseeaeesesseeseeseeaeeceeaeeeeaceseeceeseeseeeeeeaeeaes 101
6.5 Findings and Recommendations ............ceccescceseeseeeseeseeeseeeceeseeceesecseeeseceeeaecneesseeesecaeeeaeeneenaeeaees 102
6.5.1 FIMdin gs... eeeeeeceeseeseesceceeceeeceeeeeeseceecaecsecsecsecsesseeseeaeeaeeaeeecsaesaeeacesseseeceesseseseeseeaeeated 102
6.5.2 Recommendations .0.......ceceeccecceseeseesseeccescceeeaeeseeseeseeseaeeceeceaeeaesasaeaeeecsesecseeeeeaeeeeaees 103
Section 7—Professional Standards Review ............s.sscsscsssssssscssscssssssssssssscssesscesssssesssssssssesssssseessssscessssssessessoeses 105
7.1 Professional Standards / Internal Affairs ............c ce eceeeeseesceeseeeceeseeeeeeseceeeeaeceseeaeeenecneesaeeneeeaeenees 105
7.1.1 Professional Standards Lieutemant ...........ccceceecseseeseeseeseeseeseeceeceecceecceecececeeseeeeeseeas 105
7.1.2 Internal Affairs Workload and Case Management.........cccecseeseeeeseeesseeeeteeeeneeseeeesees 106
7.2 Training... eee ceccecceeccesecesceseeeeceseessesseesaessecaecsecaececeesecsessececessecesececeseseeeeaeceesaeceeeesesereeeeeaeeeees 108
7.21 Training OFFI COP ee esceeesceseeeseeeseeeseeeseeeseeesseeesseeseseeseseesesesaeeesseeesseeesieeesaeeeees 109
73 Community Relations .......cccccccecssessesssesseeseessesseeseessecssessecseessecsseceesseceeceseceeessecneeeecsseeneesaeensees 110
7A Volunteers and Student Interns... ceceeeceecceseeeceeeeeseeeeeeseeeeesececeaeceeeeseceeeeseceseceeeaeeneeeeeates 112
75 Backgrounds .........cceccecsssesceseeseesecseeseeseeseeaeecesacsecseeeecsecsecsecsessecsesseeseeaeeaceassaeaeeceessecesseseteeaeeaes 113
7.6 Findings and Recommendations .............ceccescceseeseeeseeseeeseeeceeseeseeesecseeeaeceesaeeneesaesesecaeeeaeeneeeaeeees 114
7.6.1 FImdin gs ....ceeeeeeeesceseeseeseeseesceseeceeceeececeeecsecsecsecaecaecaesaecaeaeeaeeeesaceassacseseaeeeceesecseseesaeeaeeas 114
7.6.2 Recommendations .........cccccecceccessesseseesseseeeeeeesecsecseeseesesaeeaeeaeeseeaeeaeeceeassacsecaecseeecsecaeeaeeas 114
Section 8—Summary of Personnel Priorities and Findings and Recommendations...............cseccesecssesseeseees 117
8.1 Personnel Recommendations and Priorities ...........:ceccecceeeeseeeceeseeeeeesececeeseeeseeeeesecseseaeeneenaeeaees 117
8.2 FUndings 202... ceeceesceccecceceeeseeseeseesesaeesessessesacscesacsccscesecaessecsessecaecsessesseeaeeeeeceaecesecesececaesesaeeaeeats 119
8.3 Recommendations... ceceseescssesseescesceseesceecsceeecsecseeseesesseesesseesessesseseeeeesaeasseseeaecaeseesaesaesateneeas 123
Table of Tables
Table 1—Recommendations and Funding Priorities ..........c.cceeceecesceseeseeseeseeseeseeseeececeeaeeeceeceeeeeceecseseecaesaeeaeeseeseeaeeaeeaeeaes 6
Table 2—Benchmark: Agency Staffing ..........ececccccceescesecsseesececeeseeeeeseceneesecsaeeseceaecseenaeceesaeseeeeaecesesaeeeaeseenaeeeeeeateates 19
Table of Contents page iii

8 of 137

ELEY GATRE
Oe

ES


--- page 9 ---
EGLEYGATE

City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Table 3—Benchmark: Rank Structure .........ecccceccesceseeecesescesecseeseeseesecseeaesaesaesaesaesaesaceaesecseeeacsecseeseceessecessesaeeeeaeeaeeaees 20
Table 4—Benchmark: Police Budget per Capita ........ccccccececsccsseessceseesceeseeeceneeseeeseeseessecaeceseceeeaeceeeeaeceeeeaeeeseseeeseenees 20
Table S—Patrol Schedule ....... cece eceseescssceseesceecesceececsecsecsecsecsevsecsesaessesaessesaesaesaesacsaeaceesseeeesecsesaesaesaeeaesaeeasenessesaees 31
Table 6—Patrol Minimum Officers by Time... ccceeccsscsseesseseeesseeseessesseesecsseeseesseeseessecseeesecseessecesecseseseeseeeseeseeeseenees 32
Table 7—Patrol Total Distinct Incidents (2018-2023)... eeceeccesceeceeseeeeeeeeeseeseeeaeeseeeseeaeceseeeceaecneeeseceeeeaeeeeeeeeeseentes 40
Table 8—Patrol Distinct Incidents by Priority (2018-2023) ......eeeeeeeeseesseseeseeseeseeseeceeseececeeeeeeceecececeseeeeseeaeeeeaees 47
Table 9—Workload Analysis: Committed Time by Year... ccceceeseseesseseeesseeseeeceseeeceecseeseesecsessesesesesesaeeaeeaeeaees 53
Table 10—2021 SMPD Internal Patrol Staffing Analysis ..........cceeccecesescesseeeseeseeseesceceseceeeseceeesecaecseeeecaeseseeseeaeeaeeaees 70
Table 11—Investigations Bureau — Staffing... cccecccccceeeseeseeeseeeseeseeeeeseceeeseeaeeseenseesecesecaeseseceeeeaeceseeseenseeseeestenees 78
Table 12—Investigative Services Case Management (2020-2023) .o..e.eeececcesceseeseeseeseeseeeeeceeececeseceeeeeceeseeseeeeaeeaeeaees 80
Table 13—YSU Annual Documented Activity (FY 17/18—22/23) ...ccececccccceseesseeseesseeseeeeeeseeeeeeseceseeseceseeseeeseseeenseenees 82
Table 14—SRO Incidents and Cases by School by Year (2018-2023)... .ccecccssesssseesseeeseeeeseeeeseeeeseeeeseeesaeeesaeeeeseeeees 82
Table 15—Total School Incidents and Cases (2018—2023).......cceccccscessssseessesseeseeeseeseesseesecesecsecesecnsesssceaecseeeseeneesseenees 83
Table 16—Dispatch Overtime Spending (2020-2023)... eeecsssesessseseeseesesseesesscesceaeeeceececsececseeeeeeseeseeaeeseeaeeaeeaees 93
Table 17—Regional PDs: Dispatch Salary “Top Step” Comparison (2023) .......c:cesescesceeeseeeeeeceeeeeeeeceeeeeeeseeeaeeeeeaees 93
Table 18—Current Dispatch Unit Schedule 0.0... cccecccccecessessceeseceseesecceeseceneeseceseeaeenaecaeeeseceeeeaecnseeaeseseeaeenaesereeaeeases 95
Table 19—Proposed Draft Dispatch Schedule .0.......cccceceecceseceseeseceeceeseeseeseeseeceeaesacsaesaceceeaeeecsecseseeeeseeeseeaeeaeeaeeaees 96
Table 20—PSAP Data (2023)... icesessscssessseseseeesseseeesesescsessesesesesseesessesceesecacsceeeesacseaeaeesseaceseasacacaeeesacsesseeeesseaseeeesaes 99
Table 21—Department Media Relations: Subscribers by Fiscal Year .........ccccccccescesseseeseeceeseeseecceeeeceeceeeseeeeeeaeeneeas 112
Table 22—Position Summary: Master Staffing Index... ce eceeeeseeesceeceseeseceseeseceseesecesecseenseceeeaeenseseeeseseeeseeaeens 118
Table 23—Summary of Personnel Recommendations and Funding Priority .........ccceeeseeseeeeseeeeseeeeseeeeeeeeseeseeeeeees 119

Table of Figures

Figure 1—City of San Mateo Organizational Chart ...........cccccccsecssesseessesseessceseeseesseeseessecseceseeeeessenseesecesseseeesesseeeseenees 16
Figure 2—Population Trend (2010-2024) 0... eeeecseeseesecsecneeecsesaeeseeseesesseesesscaceaeescessaseesecseseesaesaeseesaeseesaessesaees 17
Figure 3—Organizational Chart (2023) ......ceccscescsssessesceseeeeeecsecseeseeseeseeseeaeesesaesceseaeeaeacsaeceececseseeeaeceeesaeseeeaeeaeeaees 18
Figure 4—Part 1 Crimes Categories 00... eecsccscseeesceecsecsececseesecsecseeseeseesecsessesecsacsaeaceesacsessecaeseesaesaessesaeseesaeeaesaees 21
Figure 5—Comparison of Violent Crime Rates (2010-2022) ......eceeeceseesseseeseeseeseeseeseesceeeceeeeeceeeeeeeesaeeeeeeeeeaeeeeaees 22
Figure 6—Actual Reported Violent Crime Incidents (2010—2022)........ecceccesessesseeseeeeeeeeeseceeeeseceseeaeceseeseeeseseeesseesees 22
Figure 7—Comparison of Property Crime Rates (2010-2022) .....ececeeceeesseseeseeseeseeseeseesceceeacecesecaecsecaeeaeeeeseeseeeaeeaeeaees 23
Figure 8—Actual Reported Property Crime Incidents (2010-2022) ......eccceeceeseeseesseeseeeeeeseceeeeseceeeeseceseeseeeeeseeenseenees 24
Figure 9—Patrol Services Area Districts ....0....cececcessesceseesseecseeseeseesecaceseeaescesaesceseeaeeaesaeeaeecceecsecsecaecaeceeesseseeaeeeeates 30
Figure 10—Department Incidents by Call Source and PYiority ...........cceccceseeseesceeeeeseeseeceeseceeeeseceeecseeneecseensesneenstenaes 37
Figure 11—Department Incidents by Problem and Yeat....... cece ceeseseeseesessessesseescseceecsecsecsececseceseecesesesseeaeesesaees 38
Figure 12—Patrol Incidents by Call Source and Priority (2018—2023).......ccseseseesceseesceeeeseeeeeeceeeeeeeceeeeeeeseeseeeeaees 38
Figure 13—Patrol Incident Volume (All Call Sources) Year Over Year (2020-2023) oo. eeeeeceseeeeneeneeseseeeneeteeeees 39
Figure 14—Patrol Officer-Initiated Incidents Year Over Year (2020—2023).......eeeceseesceceeceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeaeeaeeaees 39
Figure 15—Patrol Public Generated Calls Year over Year (2020—2023)........cceccescessesseeseceseeeeeeseceseeseceseeseeeseseeeeseeeees 40
Figure 16—Patrol Calls for Service by Source (2018-2023) .....eeeceeceeseseesseseeseeseeseeseeceeseeeeeceeecseeeeeeeeaecaeeeeaeseeaeeaeeaees 41
Figure 17—Top Public-Generated Problem Codes by Yeat.........cccccceccceseesseeseesseeseeseeeseeeceseeeeeseceeeesesnseeseeeseeneeestenees 42
Figure 18—Patrol: Officer-Initiated CFS (2018-2023). ....eceeecceceeseeesseseeseeseeseeseeseeseceacsaceacsecsecseceeeseeeseseeaeeeeeaees 43

Table of Contents page iv
OO

9 of 137


--- page 10 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Figure 19—Fractile versus Average Response Time Measurement ...........:cccscceseeseeseeseeceeseeeceeceeceeeeeeseeseeaecaeeaeeaeeaees 45
Figure 20—Priority 1 Response Time Analysis — 90" Percentile Measure (2018—2023).....c.ccscssesesseseesestssesteeseesesees 46
Figure 21—Priority 1-5 Response Time Analysis — 90" Percentile Measure (2018—2023).....c.cssseseesssssseseeteteteseees 47
Figure 22—Priority 1 Distinct Incidents ...........ccccccesesssessesseesecsseeseeseesseseeesseeeessessecseesseeseesseceeeseceseesecesecseeeseceeeseenees 48
Figure 23—Priority 2 Distinct Incidents... ee eeeeseeseeseceeceesecsecsseseeseesesseesessessceaeaceeesaceeesecsecseeaesesesaesaesaeeseeaees 49
Figure 24—Priority 3 Distinct Incidents... cececeeeesceseeeeeeceeseeseesecseesesseesesaescesaeaesaeacaeeaeecseceeseeeeseeeseseeeeaeeaees 50
Figure 25—Area of Mapped Public-Generated Calls... eescescesessseseesessessesseeseseceaesececeesesecseseeaesaeeaesaeeaeeaeeneeaees 51
Figure 26—Patrol: All Distinct Incidents and Committed Time (2018-2023) .0....ecesecceseeceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeeeeaees 52
Figure 27—Patrol: Public-Generated Distinct Incidents and Committed Time (2018-2023) ..... ce eeceseeseeteeeeeeteeeees 53
Figure 28—Committed Hours by How Call Received .....eccccccccccceceecesceseeseeseeseeseeseeceeceeacsaceaceecsecsecaeesecaeeseeseeseeaeeateaees 54
Figure 29—Patrol Utilization for Engaged Units .0......ccccccccecscsceeseesseesseeseeseceneeseceseeseesecaecssecseeeseceeeeseceseeaeeeseseeeseenaes 55
Figure 30—Patrol Staffing Simulation: Addition — +1 Engaged Units 0... cceseeeeceseeeeseeesseeeeseeeeseeesaeeesseeeeseeeees 56
Figure 31—CSO Distinct Incidents Year Over Year (2020-2023) .......eeecesssesseeseeseeseeseeeeeseeeeeceeeeeeseeeeeaeeneeaeeseeaees 57
Figure 32—Community Service Officer Problem Analysis (2018-2023) oo... cceeeeseseesceeeeeeeeeseceeeeceseeeeeeseeaeeseeaees 58
Figure 33—CSO Distinct Incidents and Committed Hours (2018-2023) .0...ecececeesceseesceceeceeeceeceeeeceeeeeeeeeeseeaeeaeeaees 59
Figure 34—Traffic Incidents Overview (2018-2023) .....ccecesccesesseeeseeseeeseeseceneeseceseeseeesecaeceseceseaecesesaeceseeaeseaeeeenseeaees 60
Figure 35—Traffic Unit Distinct Incidents Year Over Year (2020—2023).........cescesceseesceeeeceeeeeeceeceeeeeseeeeeaeeaeeaeeaeeaees 60
Figure 36—Traffic Problem Analysis..........cccceccsscssssessseseeeseesecceesecceesecneeseceaeeseseaeeseesseesecesesesesecesessecesesaeeeseeeeenseeates 61
Figure 37—Traffic Distinct Incidents and Committed Hours (2018-2023)... cececeseescesceseeeeeeeeeeceeceeeeeeeeeeeaeeaees 62
Figure 38—Traffic Collisions by Day of Week and Time of Day .........cccccceceeseescesseeseeeceeseeeeeeseeeecaeceseeaeeeseeeenseenaes 62
Figure 39—Traffic Collisions by Type of Crash .....ccccccsceesesssseesseeeseeeeseeseseceeseeecseeecseeeseeesesesseesaeesaceesaeeesaeeeseeeeens 63
Figure 40—Traffic Collisions by Severity.........ccccccccesscessesseesscsseeseenseesseseecsecaeessesseessessecseessecseesseceeecsecesecseeeseeseesseenees 63
Figure 41—Injury Collisions by Primary Cause (2021-2022)... ce cicsesceseeseeesseeseeseesceeeeceenecseceesesaeeessessesaeesesaees 64
Figure 42—Office of Traffic Safety City Comparison Analysis (2021) ......cecsscesseseeseesceceeeeeceeeceeeeeeesecaeeaesaeeaeeaeeaees 65
Figure 43—2021 SMPD Internal Patrol Staffing Analysis by Hour ..........ceceeceescesseeseeeeceseeeceeseceseeseceseeaeeeseseeeeseentes 69
Figure 44—2021 SMPD Study: Difference Between Average Need and Current Levels ..0.......cceceeceeseeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 71
Figure 45—Citygate Simulated Schedule and Staffing Model ..........ceccceeseeseeseeeeeeeeeseeeeceseceeeaeceeeeseseeeceeeseeneeeseenees 72
Figure 46—Investigations Bureau — Proposed Reorganization ...........c:cscsscecseseeseeseeseeceeseeceeceeceeeceeceeeaeeseeseeaeeeeaeeseeaees 86
Figure 47—Internal Affairs Data (2023) .....cecccccccccsccescesseeseseeeseeceeseeseenaecseesaecseessecesessecesecseceaeseeenseceeesaeeesesneeeaeeneen 107
Figure 48—Internal Affairs Data (2022)... eceeceesceesceseeeseeseeeseeseeeaeeseeeaecseceaecseeeseccecaecesececeaeceeeeaeeeeeeeeeaeenreeaeentens 108
Figure 49—Internal Affairs Data (2021) .....ccccccccsecscessesseesseeseeseeeseesecesecseessecseeesecesesaeceseeneceseceessecnseseesseeeeeaeenees 108
Figure 50—Investigations Bureau — Proposed Reorganization 0.0.0... cc csceesesseeseeeeeeseesceseesceseeecseeeeesecsecessesseeatenesas 126
Table of Contents page v

ELEY GATRE
eee ras

10 of 137


--- page 11 ---
11 of 137

--- page 12 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The City of San Mateo (City) retained Citygate Associates, LLC (Citygate) to conduct a Staffing
Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department (Department). This
assessment includes review of the adequacy of current and future deployment systems, staffing
levels throughout the Department, sustainable alternative, mental health response, and
organizational structure. The methodology utilized in this Staffing Needs Assessment and
Organizational Analysis can be found in Section 1 of this report.

Citygate’s review includes a detailed analysis of the data that drives staffing recommendations,
including data concerning police unit response times, crime, and calls for service. The review also
includes analysis of the staffing of supervision, management, and support functions within each of
the three divisions of the Department. The Department provided incident and other workload
measures data where available.

This assessment encompasses Citygate’s recommendations for Department success over the next

five to seven years.

Overall, this report contains 36 key findings and 33 specific, actionable
recommendations. Findings and recommendations are presented in their narrative

context in sections 2 through 7. A comprehensive list of all findings and
recommendations is presented sequentially in Section 8. Recommendations are also
presented in Table 1 of this Executive Summary.

PoLicy CHOICES FRAMEWORK

As the City Council understands, there are no mandatory federal or state regulations directing the
level of police field service staffing, response times, and outcomes. The International Association
of Chiefs of Police (IACP) recommends methods for determining appropriate staffing levels based
on local priorities. The National Emergency Number Association (NENA) provides standards for
9-1-1 call answering, and the Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials International
(APCO) and the International Academies of Emergency Dispatching (IAED) provide best
practices that illuminate staffing needs for communications centers providing dispatch services.

Using a data-driven framework as advocated in this report, the City can engage the community in
adapting future public safety services to use alternative and focused strategies while addressing
community-wide, neighborhood, and social issues relative to the services provided.

Personnel costs are often the most significant cost center in any department budget. One of the
City Council’s greatest challenges is managing scarce fiscal resources and allocating them wisely
across the vast needs of municipal government safety operations. The recommendations in this

Executive Summary page 1
eC

12 of 137

CITYGATE


--- page 13 ---
GEEYRQARDE

City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Comprehensive Operations and Staffing Assessment are made based on best practices, Citygate’s
experience, and guidelines established by professional industry organizations. The City’s fiscal
capabilities must be considered when weighing these recommendations. Since there are no law
enforcement national standards, the City is well advised to use the advice and counsel of City
management and the Police Chief for guidance to determine where to allocate available resources
to meet the service delivery expectations of the community.

GENERAL SUMMARY OF CITYGATE’S ASSESSMENT

Throughout Citygate’s assessment, we found a Department with high professionalism at all levels
and a staff willing to implement new ideas and technologies to improve policing in the City. The
members of the Department are extremely dedicated to the community they serve. No organization
is perfect, and many of the findings and recommendations in this report are items the Department
is aware of and is already taking steps to implement. Some changes will take time and require
resources as part of the normal budget process.

Throughout this assessment, Citygate’s recommendations across six themes will serve
the Department in its effort to achieve the following goals:

Update organizational structures to maximize effectiveness.

Improve public and officer safety through increased supervisory oversight.

Increase capacity in Patrol services, particularly during peak hours, to reduce
response times and allow more time for officer-initiated proactive policing,
community engagement, and investigative follow-up.

Increase training to ensure compliance with the latest regulations and standards for
safe, fair policing.

Improve the type and volume of formal community engagement.

Project future needs based on current capabilities, call volumes, trends, staffing
levels, population growth, service level expectations, and demand for future
expansion of service delivery and personnel.

Citygate analyzed current capabilities to project future needs for the Department, with actionable
recommendations and strategies provided for implementation based on growth and development
in the City.

If this study’s recommendations are implemented over several fiscal years, the Department will be
well positioned to deepen its ability to provide proactive policing. The community will be able to
increase interaction with partners in the Department to foster joint crime prevention strategies. The

Executive Summary page 2

Assoc tar ES a

13 of 137


--- page 14 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

prevention of crime and disorder and the closure of investigations of serious incidents will
increase. When the public interacts with San Mateo police, they will know them and trust them to
be fair—and will not assume they are representative of what is wrong with policing elsewhere in
America.

Summary of Police Services Findings by Topic

Organizational Summary

At the time of this analysis, the Department was operating with an authorized/budgeted staffing
level of 161 full-time employees, including 116 sworn staff and 45 professional staff. The
Department is currently organized into three major divisions commanded by three senior
managers, including two Police Captains and a Police Technical Services Administrator (who is
the equivalent civilian rank of a Police Captain).

The Department’s staffing levels represent 891 residents per sworn police officer, or 1.12 sworn
officers per 1,000 residents. Citygate found that the number of sworn executives within the
Department, which includes the Captains and the Chief, was on the lower end when compared to
other benchmark agencies. The total percentage of line-level police officers was on the higher end
relative to the same benchmark agencies. The final metric Citygate used in the benchmark analysis
was the Department’s policing costs relative to other regional police agencies. For this
measurement, Citygate noted that San Mateo’s per capita spending on policing was $561, which
was the second lowest of the regional agencies measured. These factors, combined with the
workload metrics and subjective analysis detailed in this report, formed the basis of Citygate’s
findings and staffing recommendations.

Patrol Services Summary

Citygate found that the Department has previously conducted internal police staffing reviews to
determine the appropriate level of uniformed police officers assigned to Patrol; however, this
assessment represents the first time the Department has conducted an external staffing study to
assist in determining current and future resource needs in Patrol.

The Field Operations Division is organized into two Patrol teams responsible for uniformed police
response to the community. Each team is comprised of four shifts that provide 24-hour coverage.
Additionally, Traffic, Crime Reduction Unit (CRU), and officers assigned to the downtown area
are organized under a third Lieutenant. Citygate found this Division to be highly responsive to
meet community needs pertaining to emergent and proactive response.

An in-depth analysis of five years of police call data revealed both benefits and challenges related
to staffing and scheduling in Patrol. With overlapping shifts, uniformed Patrol teams can ramp up
staffing during daytime peak hours. However, the current structure does not provide an overlap
between the night shift and the morning shift.

Executive Summary page3 ci tyYGATE
ee 8 6st (kre s

14 of 137


--- page 15 ---
GEE Y

ass Oct w

City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Daily scheduling is a continuous staffing challenge. The Department utilizes robust scheduling
software and has a complex policy to ensure minimum staffing is achieved per hour versus by
shift. Citygate identified periods during each day that utilization levels were too high and required
additional police officers, especially on day shift in the morning hours.

Support Services / Investigations Summary

The Support Services Division includes Investigations, Recruiting and Backgrounds, Media
Relations, Peace Officer Standards and Training (POST) Compliance, Community Relations,
recruiting and Academy attendees, and an Administrative Technician for payroll. Citygate found
the Support Services staff to be friendly, professional, helpful, and dedicated to promoting
professional policing. The Division is led by a Captain with three Lieutenants and an
Administrative Assistant.

Citygate sees an opportunity to align units of similar mission and purpose to increase operational
efficiency and improve customer service. Efficiency alignment would entail one Lieutenant with
command of Community Relations to include PIO and social media, the Police Activities League
(PAL) civilian Manager, Youth Services, and Community Relations and Volunteers. The second
Lieutenant would be responsible for Investigations. The third (new) Lieutenant position would be
responsible for Professional Standards including Internal Affairs, Training and POST Compliance,
Recruiting, Retention, and the Police Academy (Regular Basic Course). A clerical support position
would be added to the Professional Standards Unit.

Investigations includes PAL; Youth Services; Therapy K9; Building Facilities; volunteers and
interns; Per Diem staff; and sworn staff assigned to specialty units for the Drug Enforcement
Administration (DEA), the Vehicle Theft Task Force (VTTF), and the Gun Violence Prevention
Task Force.

Police Technical Services Summary

Citygate found Technical Services staff to be engaged and professional, with a willingness to
engage with new ideas to promote operational efficiency and improved customer service. A
civilian Police Technical Services Administrator (equivalent rank of Captain) leads the Police
Technical Services Division, which includes public safety dispatch, a Business Services Analyst,
an Evidence Analyst, the Property and Evidence Unit, and the Records Unit. Citygate found that
the Administrator demonstrated contemporary business acumen and was technically proficient.
Citygate also found opportunities to increase service delivery efficiency by focusing on the
recruitment and retention of public safety dispatchers. The Department can realize fiscal savings
while reducing stress and increasing the wellness of dispatchers.

Similarly, Citygate found opportunities to increase customer service and risk management in the
Property and Evidence Unit by implementing recommendations from a 2022 audit related to
staffing, security, and operations changes. Citygate’s Project Team concurs with the

aT ¢ Executive Summary page 4

TES

15 of 137


--- page 16 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

recommendations focusing on securing the Unit; limiting access; utilizing video technology
monitoring; and emphasizing processing related to money, drugs, and guns for better risk
management.

Citygate sees an additional opportunity to improve the morale and wellness of staff by revising the
job specifications of the Senior or Lead Clerk position and offloading some of the Records Unit
Supervisor’s responsibilities to increase effective supervision.

LisT OF RECOMMENDATIONS AND FUNDING PRIORITIES

The following table lists all recommendations in summary form and identifies the following:

o Recommendations that can be implemented at no cost (other than staff time).

o Remaining recommendations that will require a General Fund expense to
implement.

o The funding priority level for any recommendations requiring funding.

o Staffing additions associated with the implementation of a recommendation—

noted in parentheses immediately next to the “X” in the Funding Priority columns
to the right of the table, which are totaled at the bottom of the table. Because not all
personnel are full time, full-time equivalency may be presented with half-numbers
(e.g., a ““.5” in the column).

NOTE: While funding priorities are identified, these recommendations are not presented in a
general priority order. Greater context and further content related to each recommendation is
provided throughout this report.

Executive Summary page 5

ELETYGQATE
ee ss oc A eS

16 of 137


--- page 17 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Table 1—Recommendations and Funding Priorities

: Funding Funding
Recommendation No Cost Priority 1 Priority 2

Field Operations Services

1. Fully staff Patrol to its authorized complement of police officers (58). Fund
4 new FTE officer positions to provide a buffer in Patrol (one additional
officer for every two shifts), reduce the continuous impact of staffing
shortages, and backfill for long-term injury and vacancies that reduce
operational positions that are often funded using overtime.

2. Add 2 FTE officers to Patrol and assign 1 per each day shift on Team A
and Team B to ensure Patrol officer committed time is no more than 60
percent and provide increased services during elevated daytime demand
beginning at 7:00 am.

3. Secure ongoing funding for the recently added, grant-funded CSO. Deploy
with the existing 3 CSOs to Watch 1 and Watch 2 (on both teams). This
would ensure Patrol officer committed time is no more than 60 percent and
provide increased services during elevated daytime demand for service in the
community.

4. Increase the minimum number of deployed Patrol staff on Watch 4 to no
less than 6 Patrol officers from 2:00 am until the end of the shift once Patrol
staffing positions are added.

5. Increase the minimum number of deployed Patrol staff at the start of
Watch 1 to no less than 6 Patrol officers once Patrol staffing positions are
added.

6. Restructure the Traffic Unit, utilizing 1 of the 2 current Traffic Sergeants to
provide full management of supervisory responsibilities for the Unit.

7. Reallocate 1 of 2 Traffic Sergeant positions to a newly formalized and
dedicated Downtown Unit / Problem-Oriented Policing team to address
downtown response, quality-of-life issues, homelessness, business needs,
events, and community engagement. Organize such programs and services
under a newly formed Community Engagement Unit that could be supervised
with the Traffic Sergeant’s reallocation without the addition of anew FTE. A
Community Engagement Unit would augment overall Patrol response by
engaging businesses and neighborhoods directly and addressing problems
that significantly impact the greater community.

8. Add 1 FTE CSO to Traffic and deploy with the existing Traffic CSO to
extend weekly coverage and support to assist Motor Officers in more
effectively performing traffic enforcement and collision investigations.

9. In light of the increased risk and liability in policing today, the Department
should consider the future potential of adding 2 Lieutenants to Patrol and
deploying Patrol Lieutenants as Watch Commanders to ensure greater
management oversight and further balance Lieutenant workload.

10. Evaluate the current, rotating 4/11 shift schedule to determine whether an
alternative, compressed work schedule could provide evidence-based
benefits to the Department and community and also address training issues,
ancillary assignment challenges, officer fatigue, and overtime use.

ciTyGatTe Executive Summary page 6

ass Oct wre Ss

17 of 137


--- page 18 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

F Funding Funding
Recommendation No Cost Priority 1 Priority 2
11. The Department should manage minimum staffing by shift(s) versus by

hour(s) of day, reducing the impact of the current per-hour scheduling

challenges.

12. The Department should consider a management-level “reasonable
accommodation” approach to scheduling that does not automatically approve
leave use when it brings staffing levels below minimum.

Support Services / Investigations

13. Consider the addition of 1 full-time Administrative Assistant to the
Support Services / Investigations Division. This would enable the Captain
and Lieutenants to manage their time more efficiently, providing greater
capacity for priorities which only they can manage.

14. Once workload indicators are properly assessed and subjective analysis
is validated, consider adding 1 full-time detective to the Investigations
Bureau.

15. Consider alternatives to leverage institutional knowledge developed by
detectives by either adding an additional “Senior” detective position or
extending current detective rotations by an additional two years, provided
performance objectives are being met.

16. Add 1 Crime Scene Specialist as a new position of to be permanently
assigned to Investigations and conduct crime scene investigations and
evidence gathering. This position could also assist with digital forensic
analysis.

17. The Department should consider the future potential of converting the 4
retired annuitant positions to 2 full-time detective positions once current
funding for the retired annuitant positions has expired.

18. Consider reorganizing the Investigations Bureau into two specialized
units including a Special Victim’s Unit (SVU) and a Major Crimes Unit. The
SVU would handle all domestic violence cases, sex cases, child and elder
abuse cases, and missing persons cases. The Major Crimes Unit would be
divided into a Violent Crimes Unit and a Property Crimes Unit. [Note: Prior to
the completion of this report, the Department had already implemented this
recommendation with a reorganization of the Bureau into Major Crimes and
General Felony units.]

19. As PAL funding/budget allows, the Department should consider the
creation of a civilian manager position to manage the daily operations of
the PAL program. The Lieutenant would be present to provide effective
leadership to the YSU and SRO staff. Additionally, Citygate is concerned that
the YSU/PAL Lieutenant is performing specialized activities that will hamper
the ability to move elsewhere in the Department due to a lack of exposure in
other areas that require sworn officer capabilities.

20. Increase the staffing level of School Resource Officers to 4 SROs total—
adding 2 FTE SROs to the Youth Services Unit. With this addition, the
Department can provide better customer service to schools and students
while reducing the potential for officer burnout.

niin

Executive Summary page? ci tyYGATE

ass Oca re &

18 of 137


--- page 19 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

F Funding Funding
Recommendation No Cost Priority 1 Priority 2

Business Management and Executive Assistance

21. The Department should migrate the existing, manual record-keeping
process for contracts and grants to a software application to increase the
efficiency of business operations.

Technical Services

22. Consideration should be given to the IACP innovations in recruitment,
which includes reaching out to secondary schools and colleges (such as the
College of San Mateo) where officers can bond with students and intern
opportunities exist for students of Criminal Justice programs. Hiring
incentives also attract applicants.

23. The Department should consider adding overnight supervision with a
Dispatch Supervisor or Lead Dispatcher position to provide leadership and
risk management.

24. The Records Unit and its Supervisor would benefit from reviewing the
Senior Police Records Specialist job specification, identifying how the
position could assist with leadership, and delegating some tasks that impede
the Supervisor’s ability to lead Unit staff to that position.

25. The Department would benefit from a focus on staffing the Records Unit
with a fully qualified Senior Police Records Specialist to better assist the
Supervisor while also assisting with the mentoring and leadership of Records
Unit staff. Additional consideration should be given to making a permanent
position to process CPRAs, which could be phased in over time.

26. The Department would greatly benefit from implementing the
recommendations in the 2022 audit as well as budgeting for a Property and
Evidence staffing model that includes 1 Supervisor, 2 full-time Specialists,

and 1 part-time staff member that can assist with scheduled and
unscheduled leave and periodic audits.

27. Citygate provided the Department with the CA POST Evidence and
Property Function Agency Self-Evaluation (revised February 2022) and
recommends the Supervisor and staff review it on an annual basis. With the
sensitive nature of evidence, the importance of maintaining strict control is
imperative for proper risk management. [Note: Prior to the completion of this
report, the Department had already implemented this recommendation with a
per diem position dedicated to a purging program.]

28. The Property and Evidence Unit should develop an ongoing purging
program. Such a program would provide sufficient space for existing items
while also making space for new items. Additionally, provide the Unit
Supervisor the ability to utilize per diem staff on an annual basis to maintain
the purging program.

29. Consideration should be given to converting the part-time Property
and Evidence Specialist to a full-time position. Under the current model,
there is insufficient staff to perform all of the responsibilities of the Unit.

ciTyGatTe Executive Summary page 8

ass Oct wre Ss

19 of 137


--- page 20 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Funding Funding

Recommendation No Cost Priority 1 Priority 2

Professional Standards

30. With the difficulties facing law enforcement, coupled with the elevated
risks associated with civil and criminal prosecutions, the Department should
consider elevating the retired annuitant (part-time) position to full-time when
the current investigator retires. During the past three years (2023, 2022, and
2021) respectively, only five, four, and six complaints were formally
investigated. There are other demands on risk management, including
internal and external complaints, compliance, IA investigations, CPRAs,
BWC, policy and procedure updates, claims, SB 2 POST license reporting,

and more.

31. Consideration should be given to providing the Training Officer with a

permanent clerical support position (Administrative Technician) to X (1)
process rosters, travel reimbursements, receipt collection, certificate tracking,

and other data entry tasks.

32. The Department should make productive use of METR’s reporting

capability and provide monthly or quarterly updates at management team

meetings to track compliance with training requirements.

33. Consideration should be given to the schedule and workload of the
Communications and Publications Analyst. Due to the nature of the position
requiring working events on weekends and evenings on occasion, it would be
helpful for this position to either receive overtime as an option, change the
schedule to accommodate a swing shift, or add a support position to the

Media Relations Unit.

Total Recommended Personnel by Priority Po | 5 | 105 |
Total Recommended Personnel | - | 155 |

Executive Summary page 9

ELETYGQATE
ee Ass OCA TES

20 of 137


--- page 21 ---
21 of 137

--- page 22 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

SECTION 1—INTRODUCTION

Citygate Associates, LLC (Citygate) is pleased to present this Staffing Needs Assessment and
Organizational Analysis for the City of San Mateo (City) Police Department (Department). This
introductory section will discuss the organization of the assessment, the project scope of work, and
the methodology used by Citygate.

1.1 REPORT ORGANIZATION

This report is organized into the following sections.

A summary of Citygate’s general assessment of current services. A table that lists

EXECUTIVE ices

SUMMARY all of Citygate’s recommendations and their funding priority levels is also
provided.

SECTION 1 Introduction: An introduction to the report’s organization; goals, including

project scope; and project methodology.

Organizational Review: A discussion of City and agency background, history,
SECTION2 and organization. The City’s crime data, Department leadership and culture, as
well as the internal employee (SWOT) survey, are also discussed.

Field Operations Services Review: A review of Patrol services including Traffic,
the Crime Reduction Unit, the Downtown Unit, staffing, scheduling, and
supervision. Workload analysis, assessment of response times, and overview of
various Patrol units and functions is also included.

SECTION 3

Police Technical Services Review: A review of the administrative services of the
SECTION4 organization including Records, Dispatch, Property and Evidence, and business
systems.

Support Services/Investigations Review: A review of the Investigative as well
as Support Services Division including Investigations units, Youth Services,
Public Information, Background investigations, Professional Standards, and
recruitment.

SECTION 5

Summary of Personnel Priorities and Findings and Recommendations: A
proposed organizational chart for the Department, a comprehensive list of all
personnel full-time equivalent (FTE) recommendations and their associated
priority levels that appear in this report, a master staffing index showing current
and projected vacancies, and a sequential list of all findings and recommendations
that appear throughout the report.

SECTION 6

Section 1—Introduction page 11 ZRH eS REE
eee vares

22 of 137


--- page 23 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

1.2 PROJECT SCOPE

Citygate was retained to conduct a comprehensive Staffing Needs Assessment and

Organizational Analysis of the San Mateo Police Department. The scope of Citygate’s
analysis included the following elements.

o Assessment of the baseline service delivery capabilities of Patrol, Investigations,
Dispatch, Records, Property, Community Service Officers, and volunteers within
the current resources and infrastructure.

o Assessment of operational and support staffing levels, distribution, and assignment.
o Assessment of the current staff scheduling methodology.
o Recommendations related to industry best practices for staffing based on Patrol

coverage, Investigations, Dispatch, Records, Property and Evidence, and service
delivery needs.

o Projection of future needs based on current capabilities, call volumes, trends,
staffing levels, population growth, service level expectations, and demand for
future expansion of service delivery and personnel in Patrol, Investigations,
Dispatch, Records, and Property, with recommendations related to expanding
services in areas such as traffic enforcement, special investigations, community
resources, and school resource officers.

1.3 PROJECT METHODOLOGY

In preparing this Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis, Citygate

consultants engaged in the following processes:

o Reviewed available documents and records relating to the management, operation,
staffing, training, and budgeting of the Department.

o Conducted an anonymous online internal employee survey to assess Department
strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats (SWOT).

o Interviewed sworn and professional staff throughout the Department.
o Conducted an on-site visit of Department facilities.
o Reviewed available computer-aided dispatch (CAD) and workload measurement
data.
CITYGAT E Section 1—Introduction page 12

ass Oct 8 re 6 a

23 of 137


--- page 24 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

o Conducted a legislative review, interviews, and review of organizational impacts.

o Considered best practices in other agencies for applicability to the Department.

1.4 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Citygate would like to thank the members of the San Mateo Police Department for their
participation in this assessment and acknowledge the diligent work ethic within the Department.
The vast majority of employees made time in their busy schedules for interviews, to acquire
requested information, and to provide historical perspective and context related to issues necessary

for this assessment.

Section 1—Introduction page 13

24 of 137

CITYGATE


--- page 25 ---
25 of 137

--- page 26 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

SECTION 2—ORGANIZATIONAL REVIEW

2.1 City BACKGROUND

The City of San Mateo, situated on the San Francisco Peninsula in California, boasts a compelling
history that traces its roots back to its incorporation in 1894. Originally a pastoral community, San
Mateo has undergone significant transformations to become a dynamic suburban City. Its strategic
location and proximity to Silicon Valley have contributed to its economic vitality, attracting
businesses and fostering a diverse and vibrant community. The City is marked by a mix of
residential neighborhoods, commercial districts, and industrial areas, creating a balanced urban
landscape.

The City’s growth has been synonymous with innovation as the City continues to be a key player
in the technological landscape of the region. With a commitment to maintaining a high quality of
life for its residents, San Mateo is not only a historical gem, but also a contemporary hub for
progress and development on the San Francisco Peninsula.

2.1.1 Form of Government

The City operates under a council-manager government structure in which the City Council,
elected by residents, sets policies, approves budgets, and makes key decisions. The Mayor, chosen
from the Council, serves as a ceremonial head, while the City Manager, appointed by the Council,
oversees day-to-day operations and policy implementation. This collaborative approach ensures
effective governance, combining elected representation with professional administration to
address the diverse needs of the community.

The following figure details the City’s organizational structure as of January 2024.

Section 2—Organizational Review page 15 | ITYGATE

26 of 137


--- page 27 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Figure 1—City of San Mateo Organizational Chart

COMMUNITY OF SAN MATEO

BOARDS & COMMISSIONS — CITY COUNCIL
Civic Arts Committee

Community Relations Commission
Investment Advisory Committee
aay es CITY ATTORNEY
Measure S OVersight Committee
Mesquite & Vector Control Distict
Parks & Recreation Commission

Personne! Board
Planning Commission
Senin Che Cranes CITY MANAGER CITY CLERK
Su stainability & Infrastnucture Commission
Youth Activities Council

OPERATING DEPARTMENTS

PUBLIC COMMUNITY PARKS & INFORMATION HUMAN
POLICE GEVELOPMENT LIBRARY FINANCE | | tecuwowosy | |RESOURCES

City Council Department Heads

Mayor Lisa Diaz Nash Assistant City Manager Christina Horisberger
Deputy Mayor Rob Newsom J City Ge Patrice Olds
Council Meniber Rich Hedges City Librarian James Moore
Council Member Adam Loraine Community Development Director Zach Dahl (intexiny)
Council Member Amourence Lee Finance Director Karen Huang
Human Resources Director Shawnna Malthie interim)
Information Technology Director Pete Owen
City Manager Alex Khojikian Parksand Recreation Director Joanne Magi
City Attomey Prasanna Rasiah Police Chief Ed Barberini
Public Works Director Brad Underwoad (interim)

Source: City of San Mateo Website, accessed on 01/16/24

2.1.2 Population Trends

Since 2010, the City has experienced notable population growth indicative of its attractiveness.
Census data reveals a steady increase in population during this period, with the City benefiting
from its strategic location in the San Francisco Peninsula. Despite some disturbance to the general
population trend associated with the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the City has remained a
desirable residential area and a hub for economic activity, with an overall increase in population
driven by factors such as job opportunities, a diverse housing market, and a high quality of life.
As of the writing of this report, population decline has stalled or reversed across many Bay Area
counties. The City’s long-term growth underscores both its appeal and its resilience, contributing
to its dynamic and evolving community landscape over the past fifteen years.

niin

CITYGaATE section 2—Organizational Review page 16

27 of 137


--- page 28 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

The following figure reflects the City’s changes in population between 2010 and 2024.
Figure 2—Population Trend (2010-2024)

San Mateo Population Trend
2010 - 2024

108,000

106,000

5.717 105,63
104,000

04,180

1
102,000 102.877 103,038 193412 403,140 baie 103,352

101,884

100,000
’ 6

100,100 tonGre

98,000 99,211

98,173
96,000 97,207

94,000

92,000
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024

—6— Population

2010-2019 Population Data Source: State of California, Department of Finance, E-4 Population Estimates for Cities, Counties, and
the State, 2011-2020, with 2010 Census Benchmark; Sacramento, California, May 2021.

2021-2024 Population Data Source: State of California, Department of Finance, E-4 Population Estimates for Cities, Counties, and
the State, 2021-2024, with 2020 Census Benchmark; Sacramento, California, May 2024.

2.2 AGENCY BACKGROUND AND ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE

At the time of this assessment, the Department was operating with an authorized sworn staff of
116 and an additional professional staff of 45 for a total of 161 full-time and part-time personnel.

The following figure represents an adapted version of the Department’s Organizational Chart.

nin

Section 2—Organizational Review page 17 | ITYGATE

28 of 137


--- page 29 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Figure 3—Organizational Chart (2023)
| cnister enc |

fra] Command Staff

Sergeants and Police Officers San Mateo Police Department
[_] Civilian staff Staffing Level
June 8, 2023

2.3 BENCHMARK ANALYSIS

As part of this review, Citygate has established several benchmark measurements with similarly
situated municipal police agencies. When selecting benchmark agencies, Citygate sought input
from the Department as to which agencies the Department typically compares itself with. Citygate
also utilized other geographical and population metrics.

For the purposes of this assessment, the following municipal police agencies were used.
o City of South San Francisco
o City of Palo Alto
o City of Redwood City
o City of Daly City

It should be noted that Citygate does not make staffing recommendations based on population
measures (1.e., one officer per 1,000 residents). Rather, Citygate utilizes a data-informed workload
analysis based on calls for service, which will be discussed later in this report. Nonetheless,
population benchmarking does provide a snapshot in time of current, staffing-related ratios for an
agency in comparison with other benchmark agencies.

CITYGAT Section 2—Organizational Review page 18

29 of 137


--- page 30 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

2.3.1 Staffing Benchmark

The following staffing benchmark table compares chosen agencies by population, the ratio of
residents per officer, and the number of sworn police officers employed per 1,000 residents. Also
included is the violent crime rate as reported by the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 2022, as
well as the number of violent crimes in 2022. The table is sorted by officers per 1,000 residents.

Table 2—Benchmark: Agency Staffing

A - Violent Crime " :
Citizens per Officers per Rate per 10k Violent Crime

Pop. (2022)

Agency Sworn

Officer 1,000 Pop. (2022)

rPaioatoro [as ~~~ ~Stae |e |
rRedwooaciyro | or | a2 | 440 | see | oa
[sanwateord | ier | aaa | moze
Poayciyeo | 12] aso | sao | onan] a

Data sorted by officers per 1,000 population

As the table shows, the City is on the lower end of the comparison relative to other benchmark
agencies in terms of officers per 1,000 population. As previously noted, Citygate does not make
staffing recommendations based on the per capita ratio of officers to residents, but rather,
incorporates this comparison along with several other factors including workload and community
priorities.

2.3.2 Rank Structure Benchmark

The following rank structure benchmark table compares the police agencies’ ratio of line-level
officers to managers. For this operational assessment, Citygate considered only sworn positions.
The reader should not infer that non-sworn professional staff are not critical to any police agency’s
operational effectiveness and efficiency; however, as every agency deploys professional staff
somewhat differently, Citygate concentrated solely on sworn staff for this assessment. The table
is sorted by population.

' Federal Bureau of Investigation Crime Data Explorer website.

Section 2—Organizational Review page 19
ee

30 of 137

CITYGATE


--- page 31 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Table 3—Benchmark: Rank Structure

Agency Population Sworn | Execs Mid | Sergeant Officers Patrol

San Mateo PD 103,318 | 116 | 26% | 5.2% | 14.7% 77.6% 64.4%
Daly City PD ro1a71 | 112, | 8.6% = | 6.8% ©=— | 11.6% 78.6% 67.0%

Redwood City PD 81,495 12.4% 80.4% 80.8%
Palo Alto PD 67287 | 86 =| 4.7% =| 4.7% =| 16.3% 74.4% 84.4%
South SanFran.PD | 64,323 15.5% 75.0% 79.4%

“Execs” refers to sworn personnel above the mid-level including Captain, Deputy Chief, and Chief positions; “Mid” refers to managers
immediately above Sergeant; “Sergeant” refers to Sergeants or first line supervisors; “Officers” refers to all line-level sworn officers;
and “Patrol” refers to officers and Sergeants assigned to the Patrol function.

As the table shows, the City compares fairly evenly to other benchmark agencies in relation to
rank structure.

2.3.3 Policing Cost Benchmark

The following table benchmarks each comparator agency’s budgeted policing costs per capita. The
table is also sorted by policing costs per capita.

Table 4—Benchmark: Police Budget per Capita

FY 23-24 FY 23-24 FY 23-24
CityOps. Police Ops. _§* 2224 police Budget FY 24
: : Police Budget . gs
Agency Expenditure Expenditure % of General Per Capita— Total Citywide
Budget — Budget — ° Fund General Fund Budgeted FTEs
General Fund General Fund Only

Palo Alto PD 251,013,000 | 51,764,000 20.6% 769.3 1064 13.25%
Redwood City PD 156,182,996 | 56,503,839 36.2% | 6933 | 591 | 130 | 22.00%

FY 24
Total Citywide
PD Budgeted

FTEs

FY 24
PD % of Total
City FTEs

[sanwaioeo | verersara | sraesrea | asm | sora | ae [sda |
[average (exc sanateoy| ven00050 | ssonnce | asx | em | oo | me | am _|

Budget data based on each city’s budget as published on its public website

As the table shows, San Mateo’s policing budget is the highest among the comparator agencies in
terms of percentage of the General Fund for each city—but San Mateo also ranks as the second
lowest in terms of per capita costs.

2.3.4 Perspective for San Mateo

The City should understand that benchmarking, while informative, has limitations including the
sample size and selection bias. The benchmark measures in this report are intended to provide the
community perspective regarding how the Department measures against other comparable

in

CITYGATE Section 2—Organizational Review page 20

31 of 137


--- page 32 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

agencies. These comparative measures represent just one of many datasets that Citygate used to
formulate the recommendations contained within this report.

2.4 Clty CRIME DATA — UNIFORM CRIME REPORTING

The following data is from the FBI’s Crime Data Explorer website.” Police agencies across the
nation, including the San Mateo Police Department, report crimes committed to the Department
of Justice annually, with that data being published on the FBI website.

2.4.1 Part 1 Crimes Definition

While all crimes are reported, the FBI website focuses on two categories of crimes, with four
crimes in each category. These are referred to as “Part 1 Violent Crimes” and “Part 1 Property
Crimes” as detailed in the following figure.

Figure 4—Part 1 Crimes Categories

Part 1 Violent Crimes Part | Property Crimes
Homicide Arson
Rape Burglary
Robbery Theft
Aggravated Assault Motor Vehicle Theft

2.4.2 Crime Rate Comparison

Citygate compared crime rates in the City with those in California as well as the United States
overall. To perform equivalent comparison, the City’s crime statistics had to be converted to a
ratio of per 100,000 population as that is what the FBI utilizes in reporting crime rates at both the
state and national levels.

Violent Crime Rate Comparison

As the FBI has not yet published crime rate statistics for 2023, the following figure shows a
comparison of violent crime rates through 2022.

* https://cde.ucr.cjis. gov

Section 2—Organizational Review page 21

ELETYGQATE
ee ss oc A eS

32 of 137


--- page 33 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
LS

Figure 5—Comparison of Violent Crime Rates (2010-2022)

Violent Crime Rate Comparison
2010 - 2022

600

500

A
3 = 25 26 93 5 26 33 26 27 258) 25 26 =e
2
AE TH
0

2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 +2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

fo)
Oo

[o)
Oo

co)
lo)

fo)
Oo

m™SanMateo ®Cdiforniaa US

As the figure shows, from 2010 to 2022, San Mateo, California, and the United States each
experienced fluctuations in violent crime rates. The City’s rates varied, reaching a level in 2022
that was just below the previous peak in 2010. California saw a slight decline followed by an
upward trend, while the U.S. broadly witnessed fluctuations with a slight increase in recent years.
These trends highlight the complex and dynamic nature of crime rates, which are influenced by
various factors.

The following figure shows actual reported violent crime by year in the City through 2022.

Figure 6—Actual Reported Violent Crime Incidents (2010—2022)

San Mateo Violent Crime
2010 - 2022

350
302
300
250
200
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
CITYGATE Section 2—Organizational Review page 22

33 of 137


--- page 34 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
a

The City has seen variations in the number of reported violent crimes over the twelve years of data
reflected in the figure. Beginning with 292 incidents in 2010, the numbers fluctuated, reaching a
peak of 302 in 2022. These figures reflect the evolving nature of public safety in the City,
influenced by diverse factors that warrant a comprehensive approach to addressing and preventing
violent incidents.

Property Crime Rate Comparison

As with violent crimes, the following figure shows property crime rate comparisons calculated
through 2022 (further crime statistics for California and the United States are not yet published).
Again, crime rates are calculated per 100,000 population.

Figure 7—Comparison of Property Crime Rates (2010—2022)

San Mateo Property Crime Rate
2010-2022

3500
3000
2500

2000 1 f17eq)'8 2068) 4 ody) 2007] 209% 20¢bq 209 2150 2°" 280
1500
1000
50

2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

oOo oO

™SanMateo ®Cdifornia @US

As the figure shows, property crime rates in the City are somewhat lower when compared to the
statewide average but have eclipsed national property crime rates in recent years.

For further detail, the following figure shows actual reported property crime data by year in the
City, calculated through 2022.

Section 2—Organizational Review page 23 | ITYGATE

34 of 137


--- page 35 ---
GEEYRQARDE

ass Oct w

City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Figure 8—Actual Reported Property Crime Incidents (2010-2022)

San Mateo Property Crime Trend
2010-2022

2400 2306 2306 2330
9300

2200
2100
2000
1900
1800
1700
1600

1500
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

2.4.3 Perspective for San Mateo

The City should understand that, while violent crime has increased moderately in California, crime
prevention strategies in the City have been successful in keeping its violent crime rate steady.
Property crime rates have increased modestly.

To curb future property crime rates, crime prevention strategies should continue in combination

with the recommendations made in this report.

2.5 LEADERSHIP AND CULTURE

Throughout Citygate’s assessment, we found a Department with high professionalism at all levels
and a staff willing to implement new ideas and technologies to improve policing in the City. The
members of the Department are extremely dedicated to the community they serve.

No organization is perfect, and many of the findings and recommendations in this report are items
the Department is aware of and is already taking steps to implement. Some changes will take time
and require resources as part of the normal budget process.

Section 2—Organizational Review page 24

35 of 137


--- page 36 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

2.6 EMPLOYEE SWOT SurRVveEY

As part of every operational assessment, Citygate seeks valuable input from all employees within
an organization. Citygate constructs an anonymous online survey that all employees are
encouraged to complete. The survey—otherwise known as a “SWOT” assessment—asks
employees about the organization’s strengths, weaknesses, opportunities for improvement, and
threats to achievement.

The SWOT survey received a 45 percent response rate from Department personnel. Citygate has
incorporated employee feedback throughout this assessment.

Section 2—Organizational Review page 25 gage a pe

36 of 137


--- page 37 ---
37 of 137

--- page 38 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

SECTION 3—FIELD OPERATIONS SERVICES REVIEW

3.1 OVERVIEW

Citygate found a Department that provides a high level of service from its uniformed and
specialized response to the community. In this section—based on an analysis of workload, calls
for service, and response performance—Citygate makes several observations and
recommendations.

According to its Mission Statement:

“The Police Department is committed to improving the quality of life for those who live
and work within our city, by recognizing our community’s needs, and by forming
partnerships with the community and allied agencies to ensure long-term resolution to
community crime and disorder issues. We will continue to do this through cutting-edge
technology, creative solutions to problems, by respecting individual rights, conducting fair
and non-biased based policing, and good, old-fashioned police work.”

The Department is a 24/7 comprehensive community policing agency organized into three bureaus
which provide the structure for all primary service units:

o Field Operations Services
o Investigations and Youth Services
o Communications, Records, and Technology Services

o Support Services

3.1.1 Field Operations Division

The Field Operations Services Bureau (FOSB) “provides around-the-clock uniformed police
protection and responds to all requests for police assistance. Based on a geographic service
delivery model, staff are assigned to their patrol beats on a long-term basis so that patrol officers
and area lieutenants form partnerships with their assigned communities to resolve problems and
proactively prevent crime, disorder, and delinquency.”?

Field Operations Services is led by a Police Captain and three Police Lieutenants, two of which
manage uniformed Patrol teams A and B. Patrol teams are comprised of four squads, each
supervised by a Patrol Sergeant. Thus, there are eight Patrol Sergeants whose primary duty is to

3 Throughout this subsection, context related to varied Field Operations units and their respective responsibilities is
sometimes drawn from content on the City of San Mateo’s website.

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 27
eee

38 of 137

CITYGATE


--- page 39 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

supervise all field activity and deployed resources. The third Lieutenant oversees the following
uniformed specialized units.

Traffic Unit

The Traffic Unit provides enforcement of traffic laws, expert collision investigations and case
prosecution, and parking enforcement while meeting the community’s traffic safety needs. The
Traffic Unit collaborates with the Public Works Department and other allied agencies to provide a
comprehensive approach addressing the critical factors that contribute to safe streets (engineering,
education, and enforcement) and formulates Neighborhood Traffic Safety Action Plans to address
neighborhood traffic and parking issues. The Unit is fully committed to providing timely and
responsive police services to mitigate the impacts of traffic and parking on the community and
improve roadway safety for pedestrians, bicycles, and vehicles.

Two Sergeants supervise the Traffic Unit, which operates with eight officers when fully

staffed. There were two unfilled positions at the time of Citygate’s study.

Crime Reduction Unit

The Crime Reduction Unit (CRU) is dedicated to the eradication of violent crime, gang activity,
drug activity, and serial crime patterns. CRU provides proactive, targeted enforcement aimed at
abating community crime, problem locations, career criminal offenders, and organized criminal
activity—including human trafficking and the associated activities that often lead to the
victimization of City youth.

One Sergeant supervises CRU, which operates with four officers when fully staffed.

There was one unfilled position at the time of Citygate’s study.

Downtown Unit

The Downtown Unit (DTU) serves the downtown and surrounding areas on both foot and bike
patrol and is dedicated to ensuring a safe and vibrant environment for the City’s business districts.
These officers also serve as a business liaison and support mechanism, seeking long-term solutions
for those experiencing chronic homelessness, those with substance abuse issues, and those with
mental illness. The DTU also works closely with the entertainment and alcohol businesses in the
downtown and other business districts, regulating and permitting establishments while fostering
economic development through ensuring a safe environment in the City’s busy downtown area.

DTU is authorized four officers, which are included in the Patrol schedule and assigned
to the downtown geographical area. While a Lieutenant manages this Unit, it does not

have a dedicated supervisor, as officers are assigned and deployed on Patrol shifts. All
allocated positions were filled at the time of Citygate’s analysis.

CITYGATE Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 28

39 of 137


--- page 40 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

SWAT and TNT

FOSB also provides special, technical on-call units including the Special Weapons and Tactics
Team (SWAT) and the Tactical Negotiations Team (TNT). These specialty units are staffed as
needed and used in high-risk search and arrest warrant service. They are part of a regional team
responding to critical incidents involving armed and dangerous subjects.

Other Services

The Bureau also oversees the K9 and Field Training programs, and provides operational support
for the Department, including the Critical Incident Response Team and the Peer Support Unit.

Overarching Duties

Ongoing FOSB responsibilities include:

o Quickly respond to all emergencies.

o Proactively protect lives and property, prevent criminal activity, and maintain civil
order.

o Work with City departments, service providers, and other agencies as necessary to

provide long-term solutions for problems.

o Strive to provide the highest degree of traffic safety through a neighborhood traffic
management strategy in collaboration with Public Works.

o Eradicate gang activity through prevention, intervention, and enforcement.

o Reduce burglary and robbery through the apprehension and prosecution of
narcotics violators.

o Develop and implement operational plans for special events that result in safe
operations and efficient use of resources.

o Identify and coordinate crime control strategies for locating crime patterns and “hot
spots.”

3.1.2 Geographic Deployment

The City is divided into three Patrol beats. Each beat is staffed by one or more Patrol officers 24
hours per day depending on the hour, dedicated to responding to public needs—both from calls for
service (CFS) and officer-observed proactive responses. Officers patrol in marked police cars and
operate as single-officer units. Calls are dispatched by priority and geography, and often require
multiple officers to respond based on safety and the complexity of the call.

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 29

ELETYGQATE
ee ss oc A eS

40 of 137


--- page 41 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Beat integrity is strongly adhered to, meaning officers make every attempt to manage CFS in their
assigned geographical boundary. Additionally, the Downtown business district is aligned with
Beat 3, and is generally staffed by a dedicated Downtown officer to address business district issues.

Figure 9—Patrol Services Area Districts

3.1.3 Patrol Staffing and Scheduling

Patrol staffing has utilized a compressed work schedule for more than 20 years. The staffing
allocation in Patrol has also been unchanged for many years. While recruitment and retention have
increasingly become a challenge, the Department has ensured that uniformed Patrol deployment
to the community has remained a priority and strives to provide a high level of service response as

min

eAanTR Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 30

ciate

41 of 137


--- page 42 ---
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

City of San Mateo, CA

service demands increase. Currently, there are 29 officers authorized per Patrol team for a total of
58 Patrol officers. At the time of Citygate’s study, Patrol staffing was experiencing many
vacancies, forcing each Team to be staffed with as few as 21 officers before any leave use was
applied. Based on interviews, Citygate found that managing daily staffing requirements by hour is
complicated and presents significant challenges.

The following table shows the Patrol schedule at full strength with current vacancies. The schedule
has the names removed but shows officers assigned to Beats A, C, and D. Officer start times are
different than the start times of supervisors.

Table 5—Patrol Schedule

PATROL COMPLEMENT
Hi 7/9/2023 thru 1/20/2024
“ATEAM — LIEUTENANT | B TEAM — UIEUTENANT =|

WATCH 1 (0630-1730)

WATCH 1 (0630-1730)

Car

Officer

Officer
Officer

Officer
Officer

Officer

Officer

Officer

Officer

Officer

Officer

Officer

Officer

Officer

Officer

Officer

Officer

Officer

Officer

Officer

Officer

Officer

Officer

Officer

VACANCY

VACANCY

[ WATCH 4 (1930-0630)

Officer

Officer

Officer

Officer
Officer

Officer
Officer

VACANCY

VACANCY

VACANCY

VACANCY

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review

nin

ELTYGATE

ee

page 31

42 of 137


--- page 43 ---
GEEYRQARDE

ass Oct w

City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Patrol Sergeants work a 4/12 schedule, allowing for 30 minutes prior to the start of a shift to
prepare for briefing, and 30 minutes at the end of shift to finalize administrative responsibilities
and review reports. Officers assigned to Patrol work 11 hours per day for four days, followed by
four regular days off. This rotation causes an annual shortage of hours that are resolved through
supplemental training payback hours (Police Officer MOU). Minimum staffing is attained by hour,
not by shift; this creates a complicated, rules-based staffing model using InTime software.

Operating shifts at minimum strength does not allow for the pursuit of organizational goals or
directed service and significantly reduces proactive policing, especially during peak hours of the
day when committed time and saturation is high.

The following table represents current minimum Patrol staffing by hour as of July 2023.

Table 6—Patrol Minimum Officers by Time

From (Hour) To (Hour) Minimum Officers

Se
Se
Se
P2100 ngne—t

3.1.4 Personnel Vacancies and Recent Attrition

The Department has experienced officer vacancies during the last few years. In 2023, while
Citygate conducted its workload analysis, the actual number of officers working Patrol shifts was
significantly less than the number of officers authorized:

o 58 authorized positions allotted for Patrol as of November 2023
o 48 assigned personnel attributed to Patrol

o 45 actual officers assigned to a Patrol shift

o Team A / 24 officers (29 authorized)

o Team B / 21 officers (29 authorized)

In essence, Patrol was operating at a 22 percent reduction of the authorized compliment of
uniformed officers in 2023. The City continued to maintain minimum staffing levels; however,
this caused difficulties in Patrol scheduling.

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 32

re 6 a

43 of 137


--- page 44 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

3.1.5 Supervision and Division Structure

The City’s Patrol Sergeants play an integral role in Patrol officers’ work, including their
relationships with community members. Sergeants supervise their subordinates in the day-to-day
activities of law enforcement and help shape the police-community relationship. Sergeants not
only hold subordinates accountable, but also support, mentor, and coach them to serve members
of the community in the professional manner they both expect and deserve. The Patrol Sergeant
span of control over Patrol teams is generally sufficient except for Watch 2. Watches 1, 3, and 4
require an actual supervisor. In the absence of a Watch 2 supervisor, the Watch | (day shift)
supervisor may be responsible for supervising both shifts with a combined minimum staffing level
as high as nine officers and a maximum staffing level as high as 13 officers.

“Span of control” refers to the number of officers that can be effectively supervised
by a single supervisor, in this case, a Sergeant. There is no definitive study that purports
to have an exact ratio as it depends on the level of responsibilities and duties assigned.
However, when the number begins to reach 9 or more employees under a single
supervisor, it becomes clearer that there is a diminished ability for the supervisor to
provide adequate supervisory responsibilities. This span of control for one supervisor

may occur on rare occasions, but it creates an increased risk of improper supervision
and liability and is not recommended.

The City currently has a policy outlining the requirements for an acting Sergeant that
can provide day-to-day supervision in the absence of a Sergeant. It is Citygate’s
suggestion that each shift always be supervised by a Sergeant or a properly trained
Acting Sergeant.

There are two Lieutenants within Patrol assigned to manage two Patrol teams of four shifts. For
administrative purposes, Patrol Lieutenants adjust their schedules as needed, but rotate on the 4/11
schedule. This organizational structure provides adequate but limited management oversight;
however, it risks placing a significant level of administrative duties on Patrol sergeants during
hours when Lieutenants are not on duty or are otherwise unavailable. Current Patrol Lieutenants
do not have enough time to effectively manage administrative duties while supervising operations.
A typical watch commander structure may allow for one Lieutenant per two Patrol shifts, with
uniformed hours that provide combined street coverage of up to 22 hours per day as needed.

Citygate is not making a specific recommendation to add Lieutenants (two in addition to the two
existing Patrol Lieutenants) to create a watch commander structure. However, the Department
should consider the increased risk and liability in policing today and the potential of implementing
this structure in the future.

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 33
eee

44 of 137

CITYGATE


--- page 45 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

There is a third Lieutenant responsible for Traffic, CRU, and the DTU. Currently, there is a
Sergeant supervising CRU and two Sergeants supervising the Traffic Unit. The DTU is comprised
of officers selected to address Downtown business district issues but assigned to Patrol shifts
during daytime hours. Citygate finds that the Lieutenant is directly managing supervisory
responsibilities and the Unit does not have a dedicated supervisor.

Citygate recommends restructuring the Traffic Unit and utilizing one Sergeant to provide full
supervisory responsibilities for the Unit. Citygate further recommends the second Traffic Sergeant
be redeployed to a Problem-Oriented Policing (POP) Team to address quality-of-life issues,
downtown business needs, community events, and response to homelessness-related issues.

Citygate finds that there is a need to organize several programs and services into a newly formed
Community Engagement Unit, which could be supervised with this reallocation without the
addition of a new FTE. /This FTE reallocation is currently unattainable due to a long-term injury.
An alternative would require an additional FTE Sergeant position. ]

Currently, the City does not have a uniformed unit dedicated to addressing identified problems or
quality-of-life issues. To focus on specific needs related to community safety requires dedicated
resources and flexible schedules, but the City’s Patrol officers do not have the time to address these
significant challenges impacting the community. A Community Engagement Unit would augment
overall Patrol response by engaging businesses and neighborhoods directly and addressing
problems that significantly impact the greater community.

3.2 THEICMA “RULE OF 60”

Since 2008, the International City/County Management Association (ICMA) Center for
Public Safety Management has conducted police operational and data analyses. The
ICMA data analysis, like Citygate’s, relies on information captured in a department’s
incident data report system. The ICMA has long recommended a now widely used

guideline for evaluating police patrol staffing known as the “Rule of 60.”

The Rule of 60 focuses on two key aspects of patrol staffing: resource allocation and
workload efficiency.

3.2.1 Resource Allocation

60 Percent of Sworn Officers: The Rule of 60 suggests that approximately 60 percent of a
department’s total sworn officers should be assigned to the
patrol function. This ensures sufficient personnel dedicated to
maintaining a visible presence within the community and
responding to calls for service.

CITYGATE Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 34

45 of 137


--- page 46 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

San Mateo deploys a total of:

116 sworn police officers Department-wide 69 sworn police officers within Patrol
- 90 police officers - 58 police officers (authorized)
- 17 Sergeants - 8 Sergeants
- 6 Lieutenants - 2 Lieutenants
- 2 Captains - | Captain

- | Chief of Police

This translates to 60 percent of the Department’s uniformed personnel being dedicated to Patrol,
thus meeting the ICMA resource allocation guideline of at least 60 percent.

3.2.2 Workload Efficiency

60 Percent of Patrol Time: The Rule of 60 suggests that out of the total patrol officer time,
no more than 60 percent should be spent responding to calls for
service (reactive workload). This leaves 40 percent for
discretionary time, allowing officers to:

o Proactively address community problems and concerns.
o Engage in community policing initiatives.
o Maintain availability for emergencies requiring

immediate response.

3.2.3 Applying the Rule of 60

Data analysis The Rule of 60 is applied by analyzing data related to personnel allocation,
call volume, call types, response times, and officer activity logs.

Benchmarking Comparing the Department’s data to the Rule of 60 serves as a benchmark.

Identifying needs | Deviations from the rule can highlight potential resource imbalances or
workload inefficiencies.
Decision-making | Based on the analysis, informed decisions can be made regarding:
= Adjusting staffing levels to meet community needs.
= Optimizing Patrol deployment for better coverage.

= Improving Patrol practices to increase proactive policing time.

Citygate determined that Patrol utilization in the City averaged over 55 percent, which meets the
60 percent workload efficiency guideline established by the Rule of 60. However, when evaluating
utilization averaged by hour within each day, officer utilization is negatively impacted between

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 35

CITYGATE

46 of 137


--- page 47 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

7:00 am and 10:00 am, and is not meeting the ICMA guideline. Additionally, utilization stays
elevated above 60 percent until 3:00 pm. This finding will be further explained later in this report.

Overall, the Rule of 60 provides a valuable framework for police departments to
assess and optimize their patrol staffing, aiming for both efficient resource allocation
and effective community engagement.

It is important to highlight that this Rule of 60 is not a rigid standard but a general
guideline. The specific needs and circumstances of each community will necessitate
adjustments. Citygate considered these factors as part of the workload analysis, along
with crime trends, demographics, and patrol coverage needs.

3.3. WORKLOAD ANALYSIS

Citygate’s staffing methodology endeavors to review and analyze several factors. Some of these
common factors include:

o Actual (and available) staffing versus allotted staffing, including Patrol officers,
Sergeants, and Traffic officers.

o Leave taken by officers in Patrol, and how it curtails actual Patrol staffing levels.

o The number, type, and duration of public-generated calls for service and staff-
initiated activity.

o Response times, including call-taking, dispatching, driving time, and second officer
arrival times.

o Crime, including crime trends and any other unique local public safety concerns.

o Any obstacles or impediments that can consume an officer’s time and/or take an
officer or other Patrol staff away from their core duties (such as time spent in court,
at the jail, or in local hospitals, and/or any technological deficiencies).

3.3.1 Department Calls for Service

Police studies can model 9-1-1 and other incident response requests through an agency’s Computer
Aided Dispatch (CAD) system. For analysis of the City, Citygate evaluated 310,416 distinct
incidents Department-wide from 2018 to 2023. This included all activities and revealed a highly
responsive approach to community safety and engagement. While the data cannot demonstrate
effectiveness, it does indicate a very high level of responsiveness and proactivity.

Considering the most common problem types, traffic stops accounted for approximately 70,000
incidents, or 22 percent of all incidents. It is important to understand that vehicle stops often occur

CITYGATE Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 36

47 of 137


--- page 48 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

for criminal enforcement purposes unrelated to traffic safety. The following figure shows this
breakdown of CFS visually.

Figure 10—Department Incidents by Call Source and Priorit

Distinct Incidents and Y-of All Problems & Pronties by Problentand Year i | Unie Chass
Veor @2078 2099 HOE BL02) BA027 P2025 | 310,416 189 & a en
i | ispate!
=" il Distiner Incidents | ProblentCades |) ~ LI Patrol
ro | Ps |) Police Mutual Aid
~~ |_| Police Services
100 o% “|| Pulblic Works
* ° © (1) Records
6 oF All Problems & Prianties az a
Distinet Incidents by Prigrity Source Year
jority @2@2 BiBlank) @) @4 @5 | Officer (|) 20
Priority @: BiBlank) @ | Buble [208
| 2020:
#314079) 1 2021
| 2022
| 2023
3
£ |
2
é ) Pronty.
_) (Blank)
1
wake | fegik 2
(azB es (Shes) 3
4
i

OK 1ok BOK BOK ag SOF aoe 7OK
Distinct incidents:

It is important to understand what drives police utilization. Calls are generally received by
dispatch from (1) a member of the public calling in a service need, or (2) by an officer in the field.
By evaluating what is publicly generated versus what is officer initiated, Citygate observed how
the Department prioritized services and provided timely responses.

As the following figure shows, analysis of CAD data for all Department incidents shows that
approximately 50 percent of all tracked police activity comes from public-generated calls, with the
other 50 percent being generated internally by officers and staff.

nin

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 37 eiame kee

48 of 137


--- page 49 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Figure 11—Department Incidents by Problem and Year

Distinct Incidents by Source Unit Class
310,41 6 BK SHI | Community Services
saa mary WP Officer initiated be Dispatch
Bistinct Incidents JER ISSN) . Telephone Hike ite Mi
ra Police Mutual Aid
Distinct Incidents by Priority WH peta ~~ |_| Police Services
enn | Public Works
Ssthectuled incidents ~ L) Records:
: Traffic
Ps Beh Sent message am
a SSK.(508I%0) fj Source Vas
= | Officer = 7] 2008
2 Hak (aea2e4) BC public LL] 2019
& | | 2020
| 2021
ak L_| 2022
|) 2023

Priority
Distinct Incidents YoY %, Distinct Incidents and Distinct Incidents LY by Year and Month

Distinchincidents Yor Se

Destinet: Incidents: +--+ Distinct Incitents LY

YoY Change %
Distinct Incidents

eid
Gee
al
ion

3.3.2 Patrol Calls for Service

For analysis, Citygate used the 260,576 distinct Patrol incidents requiring a response from 2018
to 2023. As shown in the following figure, approximately 53 percent of all Patrol responses were
to public-generated CFS. The remaining 47 percent were to officer-initiated CFS or scheduled
calls requiring a response or action. For this analysis, incidents responded to by CRU and the
Traffic Unit were considered “specialized” responses, and thus were not included in Citygate’s
Patrol Analysis. Incidents responded to by DTU officers were included, however.

Figure 12—Patrol Incidents by Call Source and Priority (2018—2023

Distinct Incidents by Source Unit Claes
260 576 saune L. Community Services
' 7K (282%) @otfcorinitiawd ~ [1] Dispatch
Distinet Inciclents 28K (10.84%) @csainc | Patrol
A Police Mutual Aid
Distinct Incidents by Priority Wirieness'a) |) Police Services
orn Public Works
1 r
Ey @ Scented tnicichents ~ L) Records
Sk . a LL Traffic
= in 123K (072258) Erte Fy iietiscesais
s \ Source year
re 3 Officer =) 2018
= Public’ = [_| 2019
el foi (36.69%) 2020
| 2021
L) 2022
ak ie i
_— a 2023
1 2 j rT E
Priority |
Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 38

ELTYGATE

49 of 137


--- page 50 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Citygate analyzed six full years of all CFS. The following figure highlights the dramatic decline
of incidents in 2020. April, August, and December experienced a 25 percent decline when
compared to the prior year.

Figure 13—Patrol Incident Volume (All Call Sources) Year Over Year (2020-2023)

Distinct Incidents, Distinct Incidents LY, Distinct Incidents YoY %

YoY Change %

Month

As the following figure shows, officer-initiated incidents dramatically decreased by 48 percent in
April 2020 compared to April 2019. Officer-initiated activity has risen since then, but still sits 7
percent lower than the incident levels of 2018.

Figure 14—Patrol Officer-Initiated Incidents Year Over Year (2020-2023)

Distinct Incidents, Distinct Incidents LY, Distinct Incidents YoY %

Distinct incidents YoY % ——= Distinct Incidents «--«+- Distinct Incidents LY

YoY Change %

BEEPS ES

Month

As the following figure shows, in 2020, public-generated incidents also declined between 15 and
20 percent depending on monthly fluctuations. Seasonal cycles continue to occur, with the most
notable increases occurring during the summer period. However, there continues to be a 21 percent
decline when compared to 2018.

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 39

ELTYGATE
ee ss oc A eS

50 of 137


--- page 51 ---
GEEYRQARDE

City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Figure 15—Patrol Public Generated Calls Year over Year (2020-2023)

Distinct Incidents, Distinct Incidents LY, Distinct Incidents YoY %

YoY Change %

Year-over-year, there has been a decrease in total Patrol calls beginning in 2018. Whether
coinciding with a shift in policing priorities, the COVID-19 pandemic, or the scrutiny of the law
enforcement profession nationally, the City has experienced a six-year, 14 percent decline in total
incidents requiring a Patrol response.

Table 7—Patrol Total Distinct Incidents (2018—2023)

Total Distinct
Incidents

| 2018 | 22.471 26,084 48,555
| 2019 | 22,845 24,788 47,634

Year Officer-Initiated Public-Generated

Se
fn
fe

As reflected in the following figure, Citygate evaluated the total combined impact of CFS trends
to better assess an accurate workload analysis within the current environment. This data-informed
approach recognizes that the organization continues to prioritize and implement effective public
safety measures.

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 40

51 of 137


--- page 52 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Figure 16—Patrol Calls for Service by Source (2018-2023)

2018-2023 Patrol Calls for Service

eee Pubic Generated CFS eee Officer Initiated CFS
30000
26
25000
22

20000 a4

15000
10000

5000

2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023

The declining trend in public-generated CFS requires continued monitoring to understand whether
it will perpetuate in future years. It is not yet clear whether fewer reports of problems indicates
fewer actual problems. This raises a question: Has the City reached a “new normal,” or are these
trends part of a longer cycle? Despite the ongoing need for monitoring, the current (depressed)
trend does help predict the level of resources needed in Patrol to deliver effective police services.

3.3.3 Problem Code Analysis

Citygate evaluated the call types of public-generated CFS. As the following figure shows, the
most frequent call types are disturbances, checking the welfare of individuals, audible alarm calls,
and quality-of-life issues. The figure highlights the top problem codes, color-coded by year.

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 41

ELTYGATE
ee ss oc A eS

52 of 137


--- page 53 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee
Figure 17—Top Public-Generated Problem Codes by Year

Distinct Incidents, % of All Problems & Priorities
BY PROBLEM. YEAR
Year @2018 @2019 @2020 @2021 @2022 @2023
DISTURBANCE 49k
WELFARE CHECK

ALARM - AUDIBLE BK 3K 2K
SUSPICIOUS PERSON TERT CATS 5:

DISTURBANCE - LOUD MUSIC sk
asscT I
SUSPICIOUS VEHICLE I .«
QUTSIDE AGENCY ASsiST IY 3«
CVILPROBLEM/ADVICE I a<
ACCIDENT- PROPERTY DAMAGE... EI 3x
PARKING COMPLAINT 3k
HOMELESS/TRANSIENT [ER 2«
TRAFFIC-HIT@& RUN [ERI 2
BURGLARY —AUTO [EY =«
RECKLESS VEHICLE [UBB 2s
HAZARD GD «x
51} PROBLEM/HANG UP 2K
CITY CRDINANCE VIOLATION. QU 2x
BLOCKED DRIVEWAY [BIB :«
STOLEN VEHICLE IR x
FRAUD
JUVENILE COMPLAINT, [I -
INTOXICATED SUBJECT [RRM «x
ADDENDUM [RM «k

FIREWORKS COMPLAINT [IIB +k

Problem

>

FOUND PROPERTY 4K
THREATS REPORT #0
HARASSMENT 1
ax 3k TGK 15x

Distinct Incidents

As the following figure shows, by a significant margin, the most frequent officer-initiated activity
was traffic stops, followed by security checks and suspicious activity of people and occupied

vehicles.

CITYGATE Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 42

53 of 137


--- page 54 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

eee
Figure 18—Patrol: Officer-Initiated CFS (2018-2023)

Distinct Incidents, % of All Problems & Priorities
BY PROBLEM. YEAR
Year @2018 @2019 @2020 @2021] @2022 @2023

TRAFFIG'STOP OK oK 8K 7K BK agk
PASSING CHECK [BED 6K 5K
SUSPICIOUS PERSON [REIS 5K
FOLLOW UP (RBBETS x
SUSPICIOUS VEHICLE QR ak
DETAILASSIGNMENT (IR ax
MEET WITH CrIZeN. JIB Sx
SUBPOENA RR 2x
TRAFFIC AGTION PLAN PATROL |} ix
PARKING COMPLAINT ff) ik

7K
5K 6K aK

MEETING J] i%

AUTOMATED LICENSE PLATE READ... [J ss
HOMELESS/TRANSIENT [ff ik
DISTURBANCE ff +x

ATTEMPT TO CONTACT ff +
SCHOOL RESGURCE DETAIL ff ak
1123 fax
ACCIDENT - PROPERTY DAMAGE... [J 8
WELFARE CHECK [fl 4k
FOOT PATROL |] ok
GUTSIDE AGENCY ASSIST | ox
FOUND PROPERTY | ax
EITE | ‘ok
ASSET | ok
SUSPICIOUS CIRCUMSTANCES. [ ok
THEFT | ok
STAKEOUTPOLICE) | ox
COURT | ok
HOMELESS OUTREACH INITIATED)... | ok
RECOVERED STOLEN | ok
DK ik 20K 20% 40K 50K
Distinct Incidents

Problem

In 2023, the City began utilizing a “scheduled call” feature within the CAD system. This allows
for operationally directed service calls based on Department priority but is included in this
assessment with the total number of officer-initiated incidents. Citygate commends the Department
for promoting organizational objectives with management input into this additional proactive call

type.

nin

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 43 eiame kee

54 of 137


--- page 55 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

3.4 RESPONSE TIME ANALYSIS

3.4.1 Understanding Fractile versus Average Measurement

Police response time has historically been presented as an average, which is measured by adding
the total response times of a given set of incidents and dividing that total by the number of
incidents. The shortcoming of the average response time measurement is that it only identifies a
single point on a continuum, and thus cannot show how widely the data is spread across that same
continuum.

A more descriptive best practice in many fields—including not only police services, but fire and
EMS—is the transition to measuring the percent completion of a specified response goal. Citygate
uses 90 percent as the standard.

The best way to illustrate this concept can be seen in the following two statements:

o “The community can expect a response of X minutes or less, 90 percent of the
time,” or
o “Nine times out of ten, the public can expect a response in X minutes or less.”

Mathematically, this is referred to as a “fractile” measure.*

To illustrate the difference between the fractile and average response time
measurements, the following figure shows the response time for a fictitious police
department in the United States. This department is small and received 20 legitimate
calls for service during the period reviewed. Each response time for the calls for service
has been plotted on the graph, in order from the shortest response time to the longest
response time.

The figure shows that the average response time is 8.7 minutes. However, the average
response time does not properly account for four calls with response times far exceeding
the threshold in which positive outcomes could be expected.

4 A fractile is that point below which a stated fraction of values lie. The fraction is often given as a percent value; the
term “percentile” may then be used.

CITYGATE Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 44

55 of 137


--- page 56 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Figure 19—Fractile versus Average Response Time Measurements

30)

25 +
2” Fractile: 18 Minutes, 90% of the Time
=
= .
= Difference: 9.3 Minutes
5 |

5 : , : ‘ Pe e * td]
0

0TtT232 45h CT]L_ Ps BURR H ES hb iT BW 9S 2
Individual Incidents

As the figure shows, 20 percent of responses from this hypothetical department could be
considered too slow, and an average time measurement would not reveal this important aspect of
the data that a fractile measurement would. Citygate believes the fractile measurement is a more
accurate reflection of the service delivery situation of this hypothetical department.

3.4.2 Patrol Response Time Analysis

Citygate used considerable resources working with the Department to extract the data necessary
to perform this analysis. Using Microsoft’s Power BI, response time analysis for Patrol is
calculated for public-generated CFS from 2018-2023. The “Priority 1” designation represents the
highest priority level, although not every Priority | call is an emergency that authorizes the use of
lights and sirens to expedite the arrival of a police officer.

In total, there were 3,641 Priority 1 CFS. In the fractile analysis of Patrol response times,
Citygate found that, 9 times out of 10, it takes 1:00 minute or less of call handling time to dispatch
a police unit to a Priority 1 emergency call. As the following figure shows, the response time for
the first-arriving unit is 13:30 minutes or less, 90 percent of the time, and 16:30 minutes or less

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 45 eiame kee

56 of 137


--- page 57 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

for the second-arriving unit, 90 percent of the time. When evaluating emergent call types, it
becomes evident that there are patterns of expedited responses within various Priority 1 CFS, as
reflected in the figure below.

Figure 20—Priority 1 Response Time Analysis — 90‘ Percentile Measure (2018-2023

Histogram of 1st & 2nd Unit Total Response Times (1 minute blocks between 0 and 60 minutes)

Arrival Order @7 @2 +----+ 1st Unit Cumulative % *+++*+ 2nd Unit Cumulative %

96%... 97% 2+ 98% 98% -ssee55 pee ey TTT
i 99%

one wet tou, 99% % 100% 100%
rene "reggag”* "98% 99% 99% 100% 100% 100!

200

Distinct Arrivals

109
9.
73 20
Win. titel. tiicews 2 cll ole ed
Wied’ at teioecn ee ee ee ee re ee 05%
10 30

<0 50 50

Tet Hnit Cimulative % and Ind Init Cimuiilative %

55

Minutes

3.4.3 Priority Call Type Analysis

Whether a CFS is generated by the public or initiated by an officer, all incidents are categorized
by priority. Citygate conducted a review of call type priority designations to evaluate the overall
effectiveness of police response to emergent problems within the community. The predominate
number of calls are captured into five priority types, with “Priority 1” being the most urgent. Since
not all Priority 1 calls include an emergency response requiring lights and sirens, this can impact
the analysis of high-priority call responses.

To conduct this evaluation, Citygate analyzed data gathered between 2018 and 2023, which
included 260,576 distinct incidents within Patrol. The following table outlines how these
incidents break down by priority.

CITYGATE Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 46

57 of 137


--- page 58 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Table 8—Patrol Distinct Incidents by Priority (2018-2023)

Priority Distinct Incidents

Most calls involving time-sensitive priorities fell into the first four categories. To perform a similar
analysis, these priorities were combined, and all calls were analyzed to determine the fractile
response as shown in the following figure. The 90 percent fractile response time occurred within
23:00 minutes of a call being received. This level of service is commendable given the available
resources and the volume of calls that officers respond to.

Figure 21—Priority 1-5 Response Time Analysis — 90‘ Percentile Measure (2018-2023

Histogram of Ist & 2nd Unit Total Response Times (1 minute blocks between O and 60 minutes) Unit Clase

Arrival Order @ 1 2 ee +-- 7 5t Unit Curmilatlve ths**** Zhe Unit Guinulative 2 Community Saevioes
Lo Dispatch

i Patrol

Lo Police Mutual Aid

Lo Police Services
 Bulblic Works

| Source Year
al _| Officer aoe
Pets ae — Pubic ~~ 2019
_| 2020
202%

| 2022
2023

Distinct Arrivals

90% Total Response Time
WUE Lide Wane Lin

0 1 2 8D 130 4 pss
sine: ; =

Ist Unit Cumulative % and 2nd Unit Cumutative %

Priority 1

A closer look at the Priority 1 classification identified 3,641 distinct incidents within the period
of data analyzed, representing less than 2 percent of total incidents as shown in the following
figure.

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 47

CITYGATE

ee ss oc A eS

58 of 137


--- page 59 ---
min

Eity «&

at

City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Figure 22—Priority 1 Distinct Incidents

Distinct Incidents, % of All Problems & Priorities
By PROBLEM. PRIORITY

Priority @'

21]. PROBLEM/HANG UP
ALARM -$LcAT 60;
CORONERS CASE EE 525
ACCIDENT -REPORT GF INIURIES BD 173
POSS DEAD BODY QJ 155
OvERDOSE QJ 125
ATTEMPTED SUIGDE QJ 120
ALARM = BANK [RR 116
ALARM -UNS J 16
ROBBERY GJ 75
ROBEERY-ARMED | 67
ACCIDENT - MAJOR INJURIES [J 31
ROBBERY -STRONGARM [ff 25
SUICIDE ff 23
3S) ACTIVATION |) 22
ASSAULT W/BEABLY WEAPON i 14
HOMIGDE ff 13
1072 J 9
i071 | 8
SUSPICIOUS CIRCUMSTANCES: | 7
OUTSIDE AGENCY ASSIST
BURGLARY - RESIDENTIAL
CAR JACKING

|
|
|
TRANSFER TO MEDICS (MEDICAL .. |
|
|
|
|
|

Problem

DISTURBANCE

O47 WIRELESS/HANG UP
WELFARE CHECK
FIREARMS DISCHARGE
ROBBERY - BANK

6
5
|
5
A
3
2
1

1

a

fo
=
—

406 600 so 7,400 7,200 TAt
Distinct Incidents

As the figure shows, Citygate identified 1,380 of these CFS designated as “911 Problem/Hang
up,” which represents approximately 40 percent of all public-generated Priority | calls. While this
percentage seems high, it is unknown how many of these calls represented an actual emergent and
expedited response, a response without delay, or a cancelled response. This type of call is
problematic as an actual priority level is often unknown, but still requires an elevated response
based on a potential or perceived emergency. Citygate did not determine whether any of these
incidents were ultimately a lower priority—such as a misdialed 9-1-1 call which then led to a
reduced response to an actual emergency.

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 48

ATE
zs a

59 of 137


--- page 60 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Priority 2

There were 114,664 distinct incidents categorized as “Priority 2,” which represents 44 percent of
all call types. Traffic stops are officer initiated and generally entered with a Priority 2 designation
due to inherent risks. There are 126 different problem codes within this priority, with the most
frequent code types shown in the following figure.

Figure 23—Priority 2 Distinct Incidents

Distinct Incidents, % of All Problems & Priorities

BY PROBLEM, PRIGRITY

Priority @2

TRAFFIC'STO? I 25 21.
STURN. ES 16 312
WELFARE CHECK x 12,725
SUSPICIOUS PERSON 11,722
ALARM -AUDIGLE [x 8,265
SUSPICIOUS VEHICLE [I] 5,327
SUSPICIOUS CIRCUMSTANCES [ 4.906
OQUTSIDEAGENCY AssisT EE) 3,397
ACCIDENT - PROPERTY DAMAGE... FD 2062
HOMELESS/TRANSIENT [RD 2,733
THEFT QD 1.625
HAZARD QR 1509
TRAFFIC HIT & RUN [BB 1,439
INTOXICATED SUBJECT [i 1,272

3
2 JUVENILE COMBLAINT | 952
2
3 DRUNEDRIVER [i 936
= is
assisy J 736
yi23 Bi 716
AUTOMATED LICENSE PLATE READ, (i 715
ACCIDENT -MINGR INJURY J) 649
res) (625
INCcuSTEDY | sae
MISSING PERSON REPORT [571
KCCIDENT - (NJURIES UNKNOWN [i 564
BATTERY f 508
RESTRAINING ORDER VIOLATION ff 497
DOMESTIC VIGLENCE | 456
CIVILPROBLEM/ABVIEE |} 422
COMMITMENT-72 HOUR HOLD ff 351
FRAUD ff 347
OK 5K 70k TK 20K 25K By
Distinct Incidents
Priority 3

There were 131,073 distinct incidents categorized as “Priority 3,” which represents 50 percent of
all call types. Traffic stops are officer initiated and generally entered as Priority 2 calls due to

niin

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 49 eiame kee

ee at

60 of 137


--- page 61 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

inherent risks. There are 155 different problem codes within this priority, with the most frequent

code types shown in the following figure.

Figure 24— Priority 3 Distinct Incidents

Distinct Incidents, % of All Problems & Priorities

BY PROBLEM PRIGRITY

PASSING CHECK lS 36,195
ee __—Ci
Follow uP a 7267
DSTURBANCE-LOUD MUSIC xy 4 623
SUSFICIGUS PERSON [MN 4555
DETAIL ASSIGNMENT [EE 4.163
PARKING COMPLAINT [3237
AScST ) 3,004
THEFT EY 2.570
CVILPROBLEM/ADVICE JJ 2845
MEET WITH CITIZEN [BY 2:704
DISTURBANCE () 2,060
SUSPICIOUS VEHICLE (2.513
SUBPOENA (i) 2.349
SUSPICIOUS CIRCUMSTANCES [J 1,936
RECKLESS VEHICLE |) 1209
BURGLARY-AUTS J 1709
CITV- ORDINANCE VIOLATION [RD 1,672
BLOCKED DRIVEWay [1,420
ATTEMPT TO.CONTACT |) 1356
FIREWGRES COMPLAINT (i) 1,351
FOUND PROPERTY i 1.221
TRAFFIC ACTION BLAM PATROL J) 1212
STOLEN VEHICLE [J 1149
FRAUD. QB 1025
ADDENDUM [J 982
MEETING: [J 916
THREATS. RECGRT fi) 908
HARASSMENT (j -21s
HOMELESS/TRANSIENT | 717
ox 3K rOK 15K
Distinct incidents

Priority @2

Problem

25K 2a SOK a:

Citygate observed that the current call types are sufficiently categorized and do not create
conflicting priorities or reduced responses to emergent community needs.

3.4.4 Geographic Analysis

San Mateo is surrounded by other cities and is more densely developed relative to its size. This
does impact response times, as distance is a lessor factor as it relates to the impact on arrival times,
while traffic congestion is a more significant factor—especially based on time-of-day and

CITYGATE Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 50

61 of 137


--- page 62 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

responding officer location—when conducting a response time analysis. Citygate did make overall
assessments of response times by priority; however, there was no data available related to “closest
officer response” to CFS. The City utilizes a beat health / responsibility policy which tends to have
non-emergent calls pend while awaiting the availability of an assigned beat officer.

The following figure shows a density analysis of activity for public-generated CFS within Patrol.
It is important to recognize that each call response requires travel time to arrive safely.

Figure 25—Area of Mapped Public-Generated Calls

Agency: San Mateo | Distinct Incidents by Latitude (37.5 > Lat < 37.6) and Longitude (-122.1 > Long < -122.4) e Unit Class
oe LJ Community Services
ee a + BB Patrol
7 Police Mutual Aid
ef Pe = Police Services
18 2% Traffic
65 3 a
q
4833
%  Burlingan 8693 2 Source Year
Officer 2018
817) 2 _| Public ("| 2019
- 10188 4 2020
1978 2021
C] 2022
5 en 66 2023
= weg 8626
3516
7 3
7028 * pei Beat
6662 99
i 1729) 161" 3 A
3902 % a c
2164 5 p
4 L] OT
Llu
6 216 8193 ” [| YDET
2728 Sum
12141 78 2
roe 234,513
@ 17402.8
@ 261032 Distinct Incidents
2 hess B69
4734 8280 " = sane
43504
485
6 1231 %

(© Mapbox © OpenSreetMap Improve this map

3.5 TEMPORAL ANALYSIS

Citygate conducted a temporal analysis of all 260,576 distinct incidents (CFS) by day and hour,
including an analysis of committed hours. By extracting the data by year, trends over the last six
years can be observed. Incident volumes follow a more predictable pattern, with daily incidents
increasing at 7:00 am and service demand continuing to increase throughout the day. This also
includes officer-initiated activity. The following figure demonstrates total utilization based on the
average officer ratio assigned to Patrol during each hour of the day and day of the week.

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 51

CITYGATE

62 of 137


--- page 63 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Figure 26—Patrol: All Distinct Incidents and Committed Time (2018-2023

Distinct Incidents Cammitted Hours
Hour Mon = Tue Wee = Thu Fri Sat Sun Total Hour Mon = Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun Tatal

\

8159

a: 8963 0

i 5,867 1 5,582
z 4,688 2 5,114
3 3,404 ri 4214
4 26m 4 3,602
4, Zoo 5 3,912
6 3075 86 3511
? 57997 28 7, Tt. 7,550
a iosd0 0 8 7a3 1, 1 9,876
a eS a) W950 218s E 12,838
10 73,825 10 BYE. 2a2d 2Ste 2135 2oga 14,357
iW S114 1 1607 “1988 1868 Bes 1,786 13,788:
12 14.275 «12 | 17ao. 2039 2513 Bier 1.eea 13744.
cE 13,049 13 Wess 1,832 208d «(7985 1,728 12,195
ie | 13.046 14 1835 158 ‘2242 Boi F005 13,038
1S 15,569 15 | Biby “Bboe Beag 2539 255] 16,572
i6 16,8600 1 4980. 2072 2a04 2458 Ba92 15,341
i? 15.634 17 were i9a0 2017 243e 2832 14,596
18 4416 18 | 1660 1,708 1.886 1025. 2026 12,331
19 13523 |S W516 VE12 1685 828 7,84) 12,109
Ba) wie | 20 1887 91823 F516 88 ATr? 13,192
Fc] a7 3 14949 9 21 | 14 4a 7553 76 Ta 11,723.
22 1ait S46 866 jana 22 | BR: Haass 4895. Gez7 «7.938 41,587
PE: 14S GSU 7516 1539 {20 2903. 1437 1nrss | BF | -@eo4 1689 2409 274s Bzao Geese 20.697
Total | 26,849 38,970 39,044 38,217 38,582.25,950 32,858 260,570 Total) 34,522 35,639 39,022 38,858 39,345 37,015 34,433 258,834

3.5.1 Public-Generated Incidents and Committed Hours

A review of public-generated CFS in Patrol—136,462 over the six-year period of data analyzed
by Citygate—revealed that CFS are most prominent between 10:00 am and 10:00 pm, and peak
between 3:00 pm and 5:00 pm, as shown in the following figure. The figure separates the total
volume of public-generated distinct incidents [left side] and the committed hours required within
those same hour blocks [right side]. Averaged over time, this temporal illustration presents a visual
depiction of the demand for service and the impact of that demand. Together, this informs the
workload analysis process, including the actual personnel schedule.

2 Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 52

63 of 137


--- page 64 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Figure 27—Patrol: Public-Generated Distinct Incidents and Committed Time (2018—2023

Distinct Incidents

Hour Mon Tue Wed The Fri Sal Sun

a 5 a4
1 ‘658
3

4

5

6

7 :

8 me 72 FT 720 “Boe ‘BSz. See
¢ | dao Ba mae G3) BOO. #22 732

o5T 930 Ess) 95 5a
in 1938 10s4 «ga? SbY TG Teo 1b
+z 1os7 7,072 gos 001 110% “LOS. 077
re} Lao «|, Fe y ho oye

14 ord 7,076 1.035
18 Hee 7/483 1058
16 7382 AAO 4180.
16 1.185 ! fis 7.095.
13 1th 4\11 WSS: 1.080
Fs] 1076 1,085 1,767 1.062:
zi ose 8984.3 1.034
22 625 (Bt Bra OES
23 ce ee rd 708:

Total

4,158
280
2,464
1,880
1553
1,665
1.872
3,226
4.995
5, Fad
6,440
7,036
7.268
7,253
7.614
217
8,934
8,980
8.664
797i
7804
7,410
6,882
5.449

Total | 19,707 19,039 18,902 18,794 20,497 20,964 19,162 136,459

3.5.2 Committed Hours

Camrmitted Hours

hour Mon Tye

i

1

2

3

re |

5

be

F

8

9

1 i
ih ese:
13 1,098.
la 1476,
15 7,279
16 “4205
it | aie
18 114
18 1136
Fat 13"9
zi 1138"
3 2279

Netty

125

463

1252
1516
eas

yaad

3a2:
A165.
1,387"

985.

Vitec

Total 23,648 22,618. 23,669

Thu

Er

1238

pre 1,246
Visa Fier"
leat!) art
7505 W28]
V464. 7,500
1465 1476
4.382: 1387
1adr 1349
+ ts! 1,580
1.285. 1364
Fiz5. 1359
224 e709.
23,904 25,486

Sat Sun Total

19 1182 5,863
i 2 4,026,
3,630
3,450
2614
2,282
244
3,649
5.112
6,704
7,041
7,458
8,343
7,835
8,705
1 9,445
eee ee Ls
1574 1485 «9,699
1202 4,131 8,025
1294 7388 9,119
250 «1403 «(9,524
die 4287 «8802
‘307 toatl “827s
304 17,193
25,228 24,954 169,511

The following table provides a deeper understanding of committed hours by year in Patrol, broken
down by how the hours were received. It is important to note that the total committed hours include
officer-initiated activity, which is an indicator of proactive policing and community engagement.
The public generated CFS account for committed hours. For perspective, Patrol officers responded
to 136,462 public-generated CFS, which required 169,511 hours to complete.

Table 9—Workload Analysis: Committed Time by Year

Year Committed Hours

Committed Hours

Committed Hours

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review

nin

ELTYGATE

ee

page 53

64 of 137


--- page 65 ---
GEEYRQARDE

ass Oct w

City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

The table shows the contrast between officer time to engage in proactive enforcement and reactive,
public-generated responses when compared to total utilization. Committed hours correlates to
utilization based on the actual time needed per distinct incident to complete the call or task. It is
important to recognize that, while distinct incidents have varied and mostly declined over the six-
year period of data analyzed, officer-initiated committed hours to public response have increased
46 percent between 2018 and 2023.

The following figure visualizes the committed hours associated with distinct incidents over six-
year period of data for both public-generated and officer-initiated committed hours. Distinct
incidents declined during this same period; however, while public-generated call types moderately
impacted the committed hours workload, officer-initiated incidents required increasingly more
time to complete over the same period. Citygate recognizes that policing continues to increase in
complexity, and the investment into thoroughness and engagement appears to correlate with higher
levels of committed hours for officer-initiated activity in the City.

Figure 28—Committed Hours by How Call Received

Patrol Committed Hours by Year

em Public Generated Committed Hours 9 mms Officer Initiated Committed Hours
35000
wai 2 66 ag a 83
25000
20000
54
15000
12
10000
5000

0
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023

3.6 PATROL UTILIZATION

Citygate finds the need for an additional Patrol officer on day shift (Shift 1) to address the CFS
that begin to increase in the morning hours. This is especially important as Shift 2 does not begin
until 10:00 am. The following figure illustrates current personnel utilization by time of day and
day of week. More importantly, the figure demonstrates a noticeable need for deployable officers
between 7:00 am and 3:00 pm. Patrol saturation is visible in time blocks exceeding the 60 percent
utilization threshold.

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 54

65 of 137


--- page 66 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Figure 29—Patrol Utilization for Engaged Units

Avg, Total Committed Time per Hour for Patrol Units | Avg. Patrol Units Committed Avg. Utilization Rate (Casewise} How Initiated
Hour Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun Total Hour Mon Tue Wed Thu Fre Sat Sun Total Hour Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun Total {Officer
c) 0 | 48 44 46 46 47 BSUS 49 | 9 (O25 Gos O28 On Gan Os Ban an abate
1 1 39 38 29 AQ 38 45 47, @4 1 |@sx @ax Sex Gee Gere Geax ee)
2: 2 | 36 $e 3d 37 By ag Sy » |@es Pes @ a @ax Gas Oo Ys sgait yee
3 3 a3 34 33 35 24 Et ab 35 g |B Oss Oy Bus Pre Bis Biri saw ia aie
4 4 mt Be: as BS BR Re BR SS 4 |B Ose Bay Bim Bix Bin Bios saw i) 2020
5 5 at 24 2G 21 2) fe de SF 5 Pan Mos Sar Bae Bae Ban Becn as (2034
& 6 21 2S 29 28 as a7 3B 3a 6 | Bax Boe Gee A ae Gare Bsc. Ly 2022
r 7 | 82 32 22 Ba SH 21.28: 32) 7 eee Ae Boe ge Gs : Sane 20e4
B @ | 38 44 42 42 40 35 92 40 8 | Aer Ae A Cle ae Be Sc @ 236
3 a | 36 fy 48 ae Bey Bee ae 9 | ek Te a A Tes A RRO ED aos Tat,

oS

WW | 49 50 75] a7 47 45 ad da a Coe Wee we ee We oe ame
W | 54 3) 52 32 47 dg 48 50 | @are Ae Bins Aces A tow Ginn Aes eH
1 54 S38 57 4 5.0 w ABS Ae A AS A i Ges ss aay
@ | 80 50 57 52 45) 49 1a | Bee A se Ase Ase Qare Ga Bask sew
5 53 4 (Ose dee Ae Ges A ore Bees Ba sen

Ib 1 6.0 15 | tek se ee ot ay cae oo ove oeaw
16 16 ) fT a Se ee ee Bin Bsr sak
WV 7 / $8 ye | @ se @ ss Qa Qs Ace Ga Bey sav |
18 as 54 ye | Bare Bes Sts Bs Sse Bae Gas soe | 256,324
Ti “1s: SS 49 bee Qe Gees Baek Bee Gave am ax has ie
Distinct incidents.
20 20 5 5d og | Qa Qanx @ean ex Bee Bae Ber ax
2 a ; S22 a | @ieen Gare Beets, Gea Box, B95 Ox 4a%
ed Ze 5.8 ae | ae Sas Swe Quan Bure e Aye a 4h
23 23 ‘ a 7 Sa 33 | Bam Bae @asy Bax Bars Secs. Base asy
Total Total| 4.9 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.1.5.1 48 5.0 Total 54%, ase say Sree Sete aa Si S54

3.6.1 Patrol Utilization Modeling

Citygate utilizes Microsoft Power BI to analyze the average committed time per hour and the
average Patrol units committed to determine a “per-hour” utilization rate for predictive purposes.
The following analysis allows for incrementally simulated personnel to be applied to demonstrate
workload utilization changes based on desired utilization outcomes. Citygate utilizes this data-
informed analysis to make staffing recommendations by time of day and day of week.

In the following figure, the addition of 1 officer was applied to the model to simulate the impact
to patrol utilization.

niin

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 55 eiame kee

66 of 137


--- page 67 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Figure 30—Patrol Staffing Simulation: Addition — +1 Engaged Units

Avg, Total Committed Time per Hour for Patrol Units Aug. Patrol Units Committed Avg. Utilization Rate (Casewise} How Initiated
Hour Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun Total Hour Mon Tue Wed Thu Fr Sat Sun Total Hour Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun Total [71 Officer

® | he 54 56 56 } (O22 Oa Oe Os 5 Os Oe Bas sa _| Public

1 49 48 49 50 q | Bax Osx fe axe @ te Es

z 46 45 44 47 p |} ass Dae Bat : @ 28 Ore Bata Pe ae tos ete

3 43 44 43 45 z 38 5 Baon Bisse Bay Bik as foal ae

4 | 4a 42 43 43 4 ae Bare Bere Bie Bare aw | 2020

5 ay 41 40 41 5 ee Base Bsa Bay Baa say (2024

6 | a1 39 39 39 kK age QQ eas. Gee Gan Gere —s0% (2022

7 42 42 @2 43 ¢ 7 ae Ce eae eee Wer ee | _| 2023

8. | 48 54 53 52 a » Bam Box Geer Bar sox

9 |) o¢ oS SS Se ; a Bt. A ais Boy Pie sre “sinh, Lines =f
1 | 59 60 81 57 A Boe A sty ye 29

w | Bt 8) 62 62 = mo Bie Qav Gin te pee

| 61 B4 63 1 | Bs. @ sx Burs 5 50% AY i

B | 60 BO > eo Mars Qiase Bee Mass see clos

14: |e 4 Bac Gary Bae, Dave are @ 10

15 bu, Bisee Boe, Boos, Save sn 20

16. a Gas Baby Gis, Bars ak

v Deis BD civ Baas Qaox wax

8 jis @4 Hats 256,324
49 39% Pe i

Distinct inticents.

20 39%:

at. aT%.

ae Bs a a7%

“33 my Dee Dp iss ®: 20% 37%
Total 48% 45% BH aH

In this simulation model, Citygate finds that an optimal utilization rate is achieved during
oversaturated hours (between 7:00 am and 6:00 pm) by applying a factor of one additional FTE
officer on day shift (Shift 1). For purposes of simulation, the additional officer is applied for the
entire 24 hours; however, Citygate’s recommendation is to only increase staffing during the 11
hours on Shift 1 for both teams (two FTE positions), as this time frame coincides with the
exceeding of the 60 percent utilization threshold as discussed previously.

3.6.2 Community Service Officer Utilization

Community Service Officers (CSOs) provide an invaluable addition to Patrol services. The City
embraces the value of CSOs and makes every attempt to utilize this role to augment public safety
services. There are three CSOs assigned to Patrol and one assigned to the Traffic Unit. Patrol
assignments are generally fixed and do not coincide with Patrol teams on the rotating 4/11
schedule. CSOs assist in the work of Patrol by responding to calls not involving direct contact with
suspect activity. Their schedules do not align with Patrol teams or shifts and do not rotate
workdays.

The following figure shows distinct incidents responded to by CSOs over the six-period analyzed
by Citygate.

min

CITYGATE Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 56

67 of 137


--- page 68 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Figure 31—CSO Distinct Incidents Year Over Year (2020-2023)

Distinct Incidents by Source Unit Class
1 2 2 21 oK Paulie [= Community Services
r fi
1H (6.6775) (i018) @ Telephone Bicso
Distinct Incidents Wotiices inriateed [_ Homeless Outre...
= i Mental Health C_
Distinct Incidents by Priority » desea () pispateh
‘ ern |) Patrol
of a @ chested incidents ~ (2 Police Mutual Aid
_ Police Services
” @ fext Message TO Behe tata ee
i 4K (36.14%) seh \ Source year
=o Tee (| Officer (1) 20te
a | public. (C2008
a () 2020
2k 1 2024
| 2022.
OK aK OK +
on — & i 2023
Priority |
Distinct Incidents YoY %, Distinctilncidents and Distinct Incidents LY by Year and Month
Distinct incidents Yor Bistine: Incidents **+--DistinchIncitents Ly

M4]

i S a

a iw

=
a

tote

£ a

= sk oe fae ois 3 *= & 2 5 2 Ee GF ES FR SE SHR SSE ERE S DE =
eS a 22 § Be fs # E $a2R FL FLFR FREE 5 Stee + @ &@ 2 8
aon mngz ond
Month

The top problem types represented in the following figure illustrate the effective utilization of
CSOs and their ability to alleviate officer workloads.

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 57 ee ih 2 @

68 of 137


--- page 69 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Figure 32—Community Service Officer Problem Analysis (2018-2023

Cistinet Incidents and ‘sof All Problems & Priorities by Problem and Year

Voor 27018 @2019 @2020 2021 2022 2025 12,221
SuEROERLA a a Distinct Iicieents Priahlenn ‘Gectes
THEPT =i z hy
FeLoW TT ars 100.0%
FOOL NES PR 1 ie of All Problenis & Prionties
eer | Distinct Incidents by Priority
IMPOUND be Priority @2 @! @(Elank) @) @4 85
Loker pavewn TS =.
HAZARD —* 2k 0 wot
DETAIASSIGNMENT [EET fess) oe

FRAT) [i
AbDENDUM [BRD os
AccIDENT FROPERTY DAM. BD coo
SURGLARY-TOMMERICAL RE
isan AY» RESIN TIAL

s(t PRASCIN REPCRY Th
PROPERTY i
|
=

Problor

WK
Vist (81.37%)
RECGWERED STOLEN
ASST

MEET WITH CITIZEN is
can ERR i
WANEIALISHT ALTE mM wig
io! 7.

ABANDONED VEHICLE [RR oe
OVERSIZED WEHIDLE

ACCIDENT (PCR IMsLAY

Bay 1,000 1 De:
Distinct incidents

The following figure represents 12,221 distinct incidents assigned to a CSO over the six-year
period of data. Evaluating the incidents by time and day reveals that most of the workload occurs
during business hours. Citygate found the Department’s use of this important staffing resource
should be expanded into evening hours to offset the workload impact of Patrol officers, especially
when other units are not available during evening hours.

nin 2 Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 58

69 of 137


--- page 70 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Figure 33—CSO Distinct Incidents and Committed Hours (2018-2023)

Distinct Incidents Committed Hours
Hour Mon Tue Wed Tha Fi Set Sun Total Hoor Mon Tue Wed Thuy Fr Set Sur Total 12,221
“ -
a = [istinet incident
AinieChass
~ fs) Community Services:
rm

Homeless Outre...
L) Mental Health ¢,,

7 i eal ~ 1) Dispatch
es, Patel
a " ~ 2) Police Mutual Aid
6. mo) ee bal ~~ F] Police Services
; 230 ie i 1 Beitolin teen

3 - , Source Year
si a () Officer =) 2a
12 (Public C2018
re 35 () 2030
4 ad Pricaity (202
18 ‘os oa ani it (i eee
6 - eo we 2023
7 ae
19 |
20 Distinct incidents by Source

Wireless-911
67%

Total | 2.263 2,235 2,537 2,273 1,525 730 657 12,220 Total | 1,846 2,072 2,386 2,244 1,511 726 562 11,446

Owe
46.4
abe Jélepirone
55 Ss

While the use of CSOs in Patrol is widely accepted, Citygate learned that Department CSOs are
on fixed schedules that do not coincide with Patrol team scheduling. This means that their value
does not extend into the evening or weekend hours unless associated with special events. The

figure shows the significance of CSO workload coverage, which demonstrates that the Department
should explore their expanded use.

Citygate has worked with many departments that utilize CSOs assigned to patrol shifts that include
evenings and weekends. Citygate further recommends the addition of one CSO to complement the
existing three CSOs assigned to Patrol. The Department should explore a scheduling structure that
aligns with both Patrol teams on Watch | and Watch 2 shifts on the current, rotating schedule.

Citygate also recommends an additional Traffic CSO to extend traffic support coverage throughout
the week.

3.7 TRAFFIC ANALYSIS

Every officer in Patrol performs essential functions related to traffic safety including enforcement
and education efforts. Officers assigned to the Traffic Unit are specifically dedicated to the primary
duty to improve traffic and pedestrian safety through proactive enforcement and engagement
within the community. The Traffic Unit is currently comprised of two Sergeants and six officers
(eight are authorized). Citygate analyzed internal and external traffic data as part of this study to

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 59

ELTYGATE
ee

ass Oca re &

70 of 137


--- page 71 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

determine the overall effectiveness of the Department’s efforts regarding roadway and pedestrian
safety.

3.7.1. Traffic Incidents Overview

Safe and efficient traffic flow is a significant quality-of-life issue for members of a community.
Effective Traffic Unit operations are essential to ensure safe and efficient traffic flow for
community members. The Traffic Unit’s role is to provide for the safety of motorists, bicyclists,
and pedestrians through enforcement of traffic laws and public education programs. Citygate
analyzed 29,445 distinct traffic incidents assigned to the Traffic Unit. The source and priority of
these calls are as follows:

Figure 34—Traffic Incidents Overview (2018—2023)

Distinct incidents by Source

29,445 a win
Je (7.55%) (gos) @ OFftcar initianeel
Distinct Incident: Welephove
Distinct Incidents by Priority 3K [NLPBSS) dla
er
ak
aur @ fect message
“. Scheduled Incidents
7
=
G ok Be
=
1 a
a
OK om of 23K [7R68)
‘ec :
Priority

Traffic officers perform an essential function of traffic education and improved pedestrian safety
through proactive enforcement. The following figure shows activities specific to the Traffic Unit’s
distinct incidents year over year between 2020 and 2023.

Figure 35—Traffic Unit Distinct Incidents Year Over Year (2020-2023)

Distinct Iheidents Yor %, Distinet Incidents and Distinct Incidents LY by Year and Manth

Distinct incidents Yor 95 Distinct Incicemts:--*--- Distinct Incidents LY

2

x 7 soo =

& a

z
eieeea ee Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 60
fabs Whedt eeee ee

71 of 137


--- page 72 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

3.7.2. Traffic Distinct Incidents

The Traffic Unit is very active, focusing on various issues impacting roadway and pedestrian
safety. The following figure shows a high-level analysis by year and problem type. During six
years of data analyzed, over 20,000 traffic stops were conducted. These enforcement and education
encounters are indicative of a very active response to ensure safety. The correlation between

enforcement and collisions will be further explored in this section.

Figure 36—Traffic Problem Analysis

Distinct Incidents; % of All Problems & Priorities
AY PROBLEM. YEAA

Year @2015 @2019 @2020 @202) @2002 @20235

TRaFFicsTOr EB
ACCIDENT - PROPERTY DAMAGE. [IIE ax
TRAFFIC- HIT ac RUN QR ox
TRAFFIC ACTIONPLAN PATROL [I -«
ACCIDENT = MINOR INJURY fff) ok
SUSPICIOUS PERSON ff) ox
DISTURBANCE ff) ak
DEFAILASSiGNMENT [ff ok
PASSING CHECK [ff ak
FOLLOW UP ff) ox
ACCIDENT =INJURIES UNKNOWN ff) ox
MEET WITH: CITIZEN ff ok
WELFARECHECK [J ok
PARKING COMPLAINT | ak
ASSET [ax
RECKLESS VEHICLE |] sok
GUTSIDE AGENCY AssisT | ok
SUSPICIOUS CIRCUMSTANCES | ok
USPICIOUS VEHICLE | ck
ACCIDENT - REPORT GF INJURIES | ox

Problem

Citygate determined that 80 percent of Traffic Unit activity has been officer initiated, which is not
uncommon among other agencies. The hours of operation are reflected in the following figure,
which shows committed hours [right side] and distinct incidents [left side] by time of day and day
of week. Analysis of CAD data shows that the highest concentration of Traffic Unit incidents and
committed hours occurs Monday through Friday from approximately 8:00 am to 5:00 pm. Most of

the incidents are traffic stops.

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 61 eiame kee
OO ie

72 of 137


--- page 73 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Figure 37—Traffic Distinct Incidents and Committed Hours (2018-2023

Distinct Incidents Committed Hours

Hour Mon Tue Wed Thu Fao Sat Sun Total Hour Mon Tue Wed Thu Fil Sai Sun Tetal 29, 145
s. ag . z es Chatiret Incidents:
a 1 7
2 2 a6
2 PF 35
4 4 a6
5 5, 75
ES 6 224 [> Patrol Sergeant:
ane ~ (2 Police Mutual Aid
s ES 857 Bee
10 10 B33 =
Yet
1 ah a77 i (Cl aoe
ee 12 231 Gi | 2019
14 14 795 Priority (CF e0et
15. 13 767 fa LI eoee,
6 ie 715 ae ae
17 7 614 ii #
18 18 B16 C3
i} 19, 239 —
20) 20. 66
Fs] 2 “21
* Trlephoswe
Total | 4229 5,752 6090 5,602 3,956 1,939 L877 29.445 Total | 1,288 1,723 1.881 1,887 1,612 848 626 9,566
Officer Ini...
eee

3.7.3 Traffic Collisions Analysis

The following figure highlights the significance of the hour of day as it relates to the when the
highest rate of collisions occurs, particularly between 3:00 pm and 6:00 pm.

Figure 38—Traffic Collisions by Day of Week and Time of Da

Number of Crashes per Day of Week per Time

17 Crashes
26:00 - Unknown ° o o 1 ° o 3
21:00-23:59
18:00-20:59
1:00-17:59
IHOO-14:5
O@oo-11-59

o6/00-08:59

OFOO-O5:59
oo:c0-0759 3 1 5 z 4 a 5

1-Manday 2- Tuesday 3-Wednesday 4- Thursday 5 ~ Friday 6- Saturday 7 ~ Sunday

YGATE
oct+ta tr 8 S&

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review

page 62

73 of 137


--- page 74 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

The following figure highlights collisions by type of crash.

Figure 39—Traffic Collisions by Type of Crash

a. a ee
Number of Crashes by Type of Crash | =| rsdnzers | Be
Type of Crash Count %
- Not Stated 9 o.o8%
A-Head-On % B18%,
B - Sideswipe ne 12.005%
a i i C- Rear End 192 «20.9047
co | FF
D- Broadside 506 33379
“fi & o ae £ h Pa
2 oS , S E-Hit Object 2B «3.05%
F- Overturned 4 oa
G - Vehicle/Pedestrian 145 16.81
Type of Crash
@ | - Nor sented H- Other 4B 6.2377

@ © - fear End

F- Overturned

cectian = & H- Other

The following figure reflects collision incidents in the City by severity. While there is no
acceptable level of injury in determining traffic safety enforcement and roadway engineering
response, the Department provides considerable resources in preventing injury collisions.

Figure 40—Traffic Collisions by Severity

Number of Crashes by Crash Severity | = re | 2.]
Crash Severity Count %
1» Fatal 7 76%
2-(njury (Severe) 64
4-Injury (Other Visible) 614 66.96%
4 - Injury (Complaint of Pain) 73) 25,199

As the following figure shows, during 2021 and 2022, speeding, turning, and right-of-way
violations were the primary collision factors in 51 percent of all collisions.

niin

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 63 eiame kee

74 of 137


--- page 75 ---
ELTYGATE

City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Figure 41—Injury Collisions by Primary Cause (2021-2022)

Number of Crashes by PCF Violation
PCF Violation
@ 00 - Unknown

6 (0.66%) = - 31(3.41%) @o- Driving or Bicycling Under the Influence of Alcohol or Drug

& 02 - impeding Traffic
ES - ae 72 (7.93%) @ 03 - Unsafe Speed

7 (0.77%) ~ — 3(0.33%) ©@ 04 - Following Too Closely
18.(1.98%) ~~ | @ 05 - Wrong Side of Road
” # ‘
a 06 - Improper Passing
70 (7.71%) ~ a
‘ ) 959.07-51%) Wo - Unsafe Lane Change
37 (3.97%) ® 08- Improper Turning
192 (12.33%) ® 09 - Automobile Right of Way
® 10 - Pedestrian Right of Wa
— 12 (1.32%) > B 4
1+ Pedestrian Violation
i 38 (4.19%) @ 12- Traffic Signals and Signs
v1 (1.21%) @ 17 - Other Hazardous Violation
} - Other Than Driver (or Pedestriz
164 (18.06%) 9 (0.99%) a 18 - Other Than Driver (or Pedestrian)
g 2) + Unsafe Starting or Backing
143 (15.75%) @ 22 - Other improper Driving

3.7.4 Office of Traffic Safety Review

The California Office of Traffic Safety performs city comparisons and rankings by grouping cities
based on size. San Mateo is currently in Group B, for cities with a population greater than 100,000
residents. The OTS rankings were developed so that individual cities could compare their city’s
traffic safety statistics to those of other cities with similar-sized populations. Cities can use these
comparisons to see which areas they may have problems in and which they are doing well in. The
results help both cities and OTS identify emerging or ongoing traffic safety problem areas to help
plan how to combat the problems and explore the possibility of facilitating grants. In recent years,
media, researchers, and the public have taken an interest in the OTS rankings. It should be noted
that OTS rankings are only indicators of potential problems; there are many factors that may either
understate or overstate a city/county ranking that must be evaluated based on local circumstances.

In the following figure:

o The ranking column shows two numbers divided by a slash. The first number is
that city’s ranking in that category. The second number is the total number of
cities/counties within that group. For instance, if a column shows “22/60,” this
means the city in that row ranks 22" out of 60 cities of similar size.

o Number | in the rankings is the highest, or “worst” within the comparator group.
Thus, for Group B, a ranking of 1/60 would be the highest (or worst), 27/60 would
be average, and 60/60 would be the lowest (or best).

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 64

AS sO CIM TES a

75 of 137


--- page 76 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Figure 42—Office of Traffic Safety City Comparison Analysis (2021

Agency Year County Group Population (Avg) DYMT

San Mateo 2021 SAN MATEO COUNTY B 103651 B478a5
Crash Categary VICTIMS KILLED & buds

INJURED RANKING

Total Fatal and injury 132 59/60
Alcohal Invalved 15 5e/eo
Had Been Drinking Driver <27 re 39/60
Had Been vee Driver 27 = 8 54/60
Motorcycles: 5 5a/60
Pedestrians i4 50/60
Pedestrians = 15 1 AT‘e0
Pedestrians 654 a S7 ec
Bicycle 14 37/60
Bicyelist-< 15 i 43/60
Camposile 70 59/60

Crash Category FATAL & INJURY CRASHES OTS RANKING
Speed Related 19 59/60
Nightiime (2:00pm - 2:59an 14 59/60
Hit anid Run 2 £4/60

As the figure shows, Citygate found that San Mateo ranks near the /owest in all collision categories.
This confirms the positive outcomes of the Department’s initiatives in prioritizing traffic safety.
Citygate commends the City for its effective efforts to maintain safety on its roadways.

Citygate evaluated the response to traffic safety within the Traffic Unit which included an analysis
of both officers and CSOs. The current complement of Traffic officers has proved effective in
providing traffic safety but would significantly benefit from the addition of a CSO who aids the
Unit in response to traffic collision investigations (in addition to the existing CSO assigned to the
Unit). Citygate finds that extending Traffic CSO resources throughout the week would improve
response and reduce impact of traffic calls for service with the addition of one FTE traffic CSO
position. This would also reduce the workload on existing traffic officers to perform proactive
traffic enforcement and education.

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 65 eiame kee
OO VATE s

76 of 137


--- page 77 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

3.8 DATA ANALYSIS SUMMARY
Citygate’s staffing methodology endeavors to review and analyze several factors. Some of these
common factors include:

o Actual (and available) staffing versus allotted staffing, including Patrol officers,
Sergeants, and CSOs.

o Leave taken by officers in Patrol, and how it curtails actual Patrol staffing levels.

o The number, type, and duration of public-generated CFS and officer-initiated
activity.

o Response times, including call taking, dispatching, driving time, and second officer
arrival times.

o Crime, including crime trends and any other unique, local public safety concerns.

o Any obstacles or impediments that can consume an officer’s time and/or take an
officer or other Patrol staff away from their core duties (such as time spent in court,
at the jail, or in local hospitals, and/or any technological deficiencies).

3.8.1 SMPD 2016 Staffing Study

Citygate was able to evaluate and consider an internal 2016 staffing analysis of the Department
specifically related to Patrol staffing. According to the written executive summary:

The Police Department regularly examines and reallocates resources to meet demands by
reassigning personnel to specialized functions or geographical areas to address problems
or needs. While the Department will continue to evaluate structural efficiencies and adjust,
it cannot continue to address challenges strictly in this manner. As both population and
public expectations continue to increase while police staffing does not, the Department will
be faced with difficult choices which could include elimination or reduction of services to
meet the highest organizational priorities.

This study identified staffing needs to ensure the Department has the resources necessary to deliver
effective police services and made recommendations related to several areas of the Department.
Several notable observations regarding workload distribution by time were identified through an
internal assessment:

o Allocated/Operational — 48 percent
o Administrative — 30 percent

o Unallocated — 22 percent

CITYGATE Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 66

77 of 137


--- page 78 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

This analysis was detailed, and the Department took significant measures to understand and
implement changes based on understood best practices. The following is an excerpt from the 2016
study that reflects additional challenges to delivering appropriate resources.

An additional factor that has impacted staffing is the increased incidents of on-duty
injuries. Over the last 5 years during any given period, between 5% and 10% of sworn
officers, primarily those at the line level, have been unable to perform their duties due to
on-duty injuries. Furthermore, the absences carried out by officers healing and recovering
from on-duty injuries create a need for supplementation of staffing with officers on
overtime. This means officers are either working long 12-hour shifts in excess of their 40-
to-48-hour work week or are expanding already lengthy 12-hour shifts into exhaustive 15-
to-16-hour shifts to help cover minimum staffing needs. Fatigue from such shifts is a proven
risk factor to officers.

Citygate recognizes that Patrol operations require predictable staffing levels to deliver services. A
department with a full complement of authorized FTE positions in Patrol generally has a narrow
margin from which to absorb vacancies due to leave associated with MOU benefits with employee
groups. However, unfilled positions due to injuries or vacancies have a significant impact on a
department’s ability to properly deliver police services.

In the City, the Department does not have the ability to absorb these impacts as there are no reserve
or buffer positions allocated to Patrol. Based on prior studies within the Department and consistent
with industry experience, Patrol staffing shortages generally entail at least 5-10 percent of the
workforce being unavailable for deployment.

Industries requiring guaranteed staffing routinely plan for these gaps with unique buffer or reserve
programs. For example, the airline industry employs reserve pilots and flight crews to ensure
service delivery, as flights do not embark without a full crew. This comparison may not represent
a perfect analog, as community safety does not require a specific officer level; however, it
demonstrates that any staffing less than the identified minimum level likely reflects an inability to
meet the predetermined service delivery outcomes and objectives in a predictive identified service
delivery model. Therefore, Citygate recommends the Department add four FTE officer positions
to provide a buffer and reduce the continuous impact of staffing shortages—ensuring the
Department can deliver Patrol services without (1) operating below minimum staffing levels, and
(2) requiring routine use of overtime to backfill vacancies.

3.8.2 Patrol Schedule Assessment

The law enforcement profession has experimented with compressed work schedules for decades,
whether variations of 10-hour or 12-hour shift schedules or, in the case of San Mateo currently, an
11-hour shift schedule. There are benefits to each shift length; however, recent studies indicate
that long shifts have inherent challenges, especially fatigue. While the 12-hour shift conforms to

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 67
eee

78 of 137

CITYGATE


--- page 79 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

24-hour coverage, most police agencies—including San Mateo—take advantage of the escalating
resource schedule due to the daytime increase in service demand.

Citygate does not advocate for any specific schedule and recognizes the individual needs and
specific culture of each agency. However, there are alternative compressed workweek schedules
(such as the overlapping 4/10 model) that can offer fixed schedules, overlapping shifts, improved
team cohesion, and on-duty training.

Citygate made the following observations related to scheduling:

o The Department previously utilized a 12-hour shift model but, in recent years,
shifted to 11-hour shifts (except for Patrol Sergeants) due to concerns of fatigue
and quality-of-life issues.

o The 4/11 shift model continues to provide officers with the personal benefit of a
compressed work schedule.

o The rotating schedule does not allow for team cohesion between the two teams and
can make personal scheduling more challenging.

o The two teams do not overlap, reducing team cohesion and communication.

o Each team has four overlapping shifts (except Watch 4 to Watch 1). Call analysis
highlights this impact, which should be adjusted to ensure all shifts overlap.

o According to utilization data, morning hours are understaffed beginning at 7:00 am.

o Watch 4 minimum staffing levels are insufficient for the size of the City. Workload
analysis should not be the sole basis for deploying less than 6 police officers during
overnight hours for a City the size of San Mateo.

o Officers owe the Department 77 hours per year based on a City MOU due to the
adopted schedule. The Department coordinates annual training utilizing a portion
of these hours and conducts the training outside of Patrol schedule work hours.

o Officers are allowed up to six weeks of leave each year, not including sick leave or
accrued compensatory time.

The Department allows for the approval of compensatory time use when it brings minimum
staffing to no more than one officer below minimum. This can be challenging for scheduling
purposes as it negatively impacts the Department’s ability to deliver appropriate police services to
the community and causes officer fatigue. Citygate finds this policy to be unsustainable and
recommends a management-level “reasonable accommodation” approach in partnership with
affected labor groups that does not automatically approve leave use when it brings staffing levels
below minimum.

CITYGATE Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 68

79 of 137


--- page 80 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

3.8.3 Minimum Staffing Levels Assessment

In 2021, the Department conducted an updated Patrol staffing analysis. The emphasis was to
review what should be the appropriate level of deployable officers by hour of the day. The internal
data analysis was very detailed and attempted to utilize ICMA guidelines. The summary
assessment provided at that time is as follows:

Patrol maintains minimum staffing levels, based on hours of the day. These levels have
been updated every few years, but the justification or reasoning for these levels has been
unclear historically. Through research it was discovered that the International City and
County Management Association (ICMA) produced a research paper on this topic, titled
“An Analysis of Police Department Staffing: How Many Officers do you Really Need?”
The research recommends that police agencies allocate staffing based on having 60% of
all officers assigned to Patrol. Our personnel authorization for officers is currently 88
positions, meaning 52-53 officers should be assigned to Patrol. We currently meet that
number. The ICMA report also recommends that Patrol officers should have 60% of their
day allocated to responding to calls for service, with 40% unallocated for other activities,
like proactive work, administrative duties, self-care/meals, etc. This 60% best practice
guideline for allocated workload is consistent with a SMPD staffing analysis from 2016.

Citygate commends the City for its efforts to conduct an internal workload study. It is common
that budget, crime, and population become the drivers of a department’s staffing without actual
workload information. Citygate learned that the City implemented additional staffing changes and
minimum staffing levels for each hour in 2019, 2021, and again in 2023 to be responsive to
workload demands. The following figure reflects the internal analysis of average staffing needs,
current/full staffing, and proposed staffing/schedule recommendations.

Figure 43—2021 SMPD Internal Patrol Staffing Analysis by Hour

2021 SMPOD Internal Staffing Analysis by Hour

B] 20 20
20
7
Ly 15
13
i 2 12 z a:
| | I i 1
ut 1 ; 3 3 9 3
5
7 7
|
P r
3
meri Tiny Mee faut ‘i spa i

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 69 ee wih 2 @

ass Oca re &

ir)

, a =
————
= >
————= «=
es =
ee

80 of 137


--- page 81 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

While the internal study provided granular details as to staffing level needs per hour, it is important
to recognize the expectation to have an appropriate level of resources available to deploy if needed.
This is especially true when all other Department resources are unavailable. Police departments
can call upon allied agencies for mutual aid, however, it is still the Department’s responsibility to
provide for unplanned workload demands that often require multiple officers in response to
complex incidents or multiple simultaneous CFS.

The Department also implemented a flex program which adjusted the hours of some officers to
address the lack of an overlap between Watch 4 and Watch 1. The Department found this program
was helpful, but it was discontinued after it created challenges to team cohesion, information
sharing, and staffing coverage. Citygate found that the need for staffing overlap still exists but
recognizes that managing appropriate staffing levels is a higher priority.

The following table presents a compilation of prior analysis data from the 2021 staffing review.

Table 10—2021 SMPD Internal Patrol Staffing Analysis

June, 2019, Aug, 2019, June, 2021, Difference
Minimum Levels | Minimum Levels | Minimum Levels Miebiges Rounded Highs 2019 Min between Avg
based on work {based on work neeq based on work Averages Levels Need in 2021 and
need & 60/40 split & 60/40 split need & 60/40 split 2019 Levels
9 4 3 9 5
4 2 4 : 4 7
3 4 2 i t+—4 4 6 3
3 4 2 oof 3 4 6 3
3 1 3 Fy Se! 3 6 3
2 2 2 CT) aa! 2 6 4
2 2 3 2.33|E> eal 3 6 3}
3 3 3 i se: 3 5 2
4 4 5 5 467| S| 5 5 0
z ii 10 6 900, 9 5 -4
g 8 6 6 6.67 9 2
8g 5 é 8 6.33 —4 9 2
= 6 7 5 6.00] | 9 3
E 8 8 5 7.00; = 7 9 z
Zz 7 6 10 7c? | 15 7
bo 8 8 7 767| | 15 7
7
4 5 7 7 6.33; 7 15 8
z 10 9 4 8.67 10 15 £
= 8 10 6 8.00 7
3 7 6 8 7.00 #
# 8 14 10 10.67 14 15 a
< 6 6 8 6.67 8 11 4
= 6 5 7 6.00 7 11 5]

As shown in the following figure, the Department identified the 9:00 am hour as a critically low
staffing hour based on the prior 2021 assessment. Citygate recommends an increase in Patrol
staffing on Watch | to address this need. Citygate recognizes that all changes in staffing levels,

CITYGATE Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 70

81 of 137


--- page 82 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

shift schedules, and hours of work should be implemented in partnership with affected labor
organizations including the POA and the Sergeants Association. Additionally, Patrol staffing and
scheduling recommendations require proper phasing to ensure needed resources and FTE positions
are available.

Figure 44—2021 SMPD Study: Difference Between Average Need and Current Levels

2021 Difference between Avg Need and Current Levels

Dp & : > ib 2 & & 5 > 6 S 6
PF PF PPP LCS SF SS L 2 FP SK FS Se oP ae ae
so" ay SS a ae OS a” RY SS) Ss” 2 oS
PP LP PP PP UP OP od FP LP PP uP SF oP oP SS Res
ger r Kr er KEE or aR A A A A A oP ye

3.8.4 Simulated Schedule and Staffing Model

Citygate recognizes the Department’s desire to solve staffing challenges based on the existing
teams and shifts. Citygate found that multiple adjustments to minimum staffing levels since 2016
have been an attempt to use data to inform and drive Patrol staffing decisions. However, the
continuous change in minimum staffing is primarily driven by the lack of deployable officers in
Patrol.

While this study’s purpose is to make staffing recommendations, the simulation provided in the
following figure is intended to show a potential solution that could address deficiencies by hour of
day and minimum staffing levels by shift. By adjusting the hours of Watch 4 and/or Watch 1, the
Department could reduce the impact of pending calls as one shift ends and the next begins. Citygate
advises an overlap of at least 30-60 minutes between any two shifts. The figure also shows a
simulated minimum staffing level by shift instead of by hour. To accomplish this, each team would
require 30 officers. Each shift would be authorized two officers above the minimum to account for
absences due to vacation, comp, sick, and other leave uses under the MOU. Therefore, Citygate

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 71
eee

82 of 137

CITYGATE


--- page 83 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

recommends the Department move from staffing minimums by hour to staffing minimums by
shift—eliminating the impact of the current, per-hour scheduling challenges and more
appropriately staffing shifts to match the service demands identified during this study.

Citygate further recommends the minimum staffing level be increased to six officers between 2:00
am and 10:00 am. This recommendation should be phased in as operational staffing levels increase.
The data-driven utilization simulation combined with the simulated schedule in the previous figure
supports this recommendation. Citygate simulated the minimum staffing model to include a
column reflecting “Simulated Budgeted Full Compliment” for demonstration purposes. This
simulated solution includes the proposed 2 FTE officers deployed on Watch | (1 additional officer
per each day shift) for a total of 30 officers per team instead of the current authorized strength of
29 officers per team. This alternative could provide for each shift (Watch) to be staffed with 2
officers above minimum staffing, allowing for the management of time off by shift versus the
current practice of minimums by hour as illustrated in the following figure.

Figure 45—Citygate Simulated Schedule and Staffing Model

Watch- ‘Watch2- WatchS- | Watch4- ‘Simulated Sted CG2028 | CGM ang

Schedule Proposed Proposed
= ‘ : M
6:00 AM to 10:00 AM 3:00PM to 8:00 PMto Budgeted Full fishies | Coeratianal Critical Current Min

. s L : Complement Staff Levels
5:00PM toS:00PM 2:00AM 7:00AM Pp Complement Minimum Minimum

wow OD WOID DAA DAIADAA DA

ry
oS

=
o

;
5
1
i

Note: Increase minimum staffing in 20 of 24 hour blocks

eieeea ee Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 72

ass Oct wre Ss

83 of 137


--- page 84 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

LE
3.9 FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

3.9.1 Findings

Finding #1: Patrol staffing has experienced many vacancies, forcing each team to be staffed
with as few as 21 officers before any leave use is applied (29 authorized).

Finding #2: Minimum staffing is attained by hour, not by shift; this creates a complicated,
rules-based staffing model that is very difficult to manage, especially when staffing
is low.

Finding #3: Operating shifts at minimum strength does not allow for organizational goals or
directed service and significantly reduces proactive policing, especially during
peak hours of the day when committed time and saturation is high.

Finding #4: The City does not currently have a uniformed unit that is dedicated to addressing
identified problems or quality-of-life issues. To focus on specific needs related to
community safety requires dedicated resources and flexible schedules, but the
City’s Patrol officers do not have the time to address these significant challenges
impacting the community.

Finding #5: Using the ICMA Rule of 60 as it pertains to resource allocation, it is Citygate’s
experience that the average department assigns approximately 66 percent of its
officers to Patrol. At full strength, San Mateo achieves the 60 percent goal, with
60 percent of its officers assigned to Patrol.

Finding #6: Watch | has a workload level requiring an increase in the minimum staffing level
by | officer per team. According to the ICMA Rule of 60 as it pertains to workload
efficiency, the average workload of Patrol officers should not exceed 60 percent.
Patrol officers in the City are committed 55 percent of the time on average.
However, when evaluating utilization averaged by hour within each day, officer
utilization is negatively impacted between 7:00 am and 10:00 am and not meeting
the ICMA guideline. Additionally, utilization stays elevated above 60 percent until
3:00 pm.

Finding #7: In the absence of a Watch 2 supervisor, the Watch 1 (day shift) supervisor may be
responsible for supervising both shifts with a combined minimum staffing level of
9 officers (up to 13 officers if fully staffed).

Finding #8: | Whether coinciding with a shift in policing priorities, the COVID-19 pandemic, or
the scrutiny of the law enforcement profession nationally, the City has experienced
a six-year 14 percent decline in total incidents requiring a Patrol response.

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 73

CITYGATE

84 of 137


--- page 85 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Finding #9:

Finding #10:

Finding #11:

Finding #12:

Finding #13:

Finding #14:

Finding #15:

Finding #16:

Finding #17:

Finding #18:

Finding #19:

GEEYRQARDE

The current Patrol schedule does not factor time to perform ancillary duties, which
are different than administrative tasks and must be performed while on-duty.
Additionally, the rotating 4/11 schedule does not overlap teams and requires
making up 77 hours each year.

In the fractile analysis of Patrol response times, 9 times out of 10, it takes 1:00
minute or less of call-handling time to dispatch a police unit to a Priority | call,
with the response time for the first-arriving unit being 13:30 minutes or less, 90
percent of the time.

Unfilled positions due to injuries or vacancies have a significant impact on the
Department’s ability to properly deliver Patrol services. The Department cannot
absorb these impacts as there are no reserve or buffer positions allocated to Patrol.

Community Service Officers (CSOs) play an invaluable supportive and cost-
effective role in Patrol and in Traffic. However, their schedule is limited to specific
hours/days and not data driven.

The Department allows for the approval of comp time use when it brings minimum
staffing to no more than one officer below minimum. This can be challenging for
scheduling purposes as it negatively impacts the Department’s ability to deliver
appropriate police services to the community and causes officer fatigue.

Each team has overlapping shifts except Watch 4 to Watch 1 at 6:30 am. Call
analysis highlights this impact, which supports adjusting Watch times to ensure all
shifts have an overlap when adequately staffed.

Watch 4 minimum staffing levels are insufficient for the size of the City. Workload
analysis should not be the sole basis for deploying less than six officers during
overnight hours.

The Downtown Unit is managed by a Lieutenant but does not have a dedicated
supervisor as officers are assigned and deployed on Patrol shifts.

The two current Patrol Team Lieutenants do not have enough time to effectively
manage administrative duties while supervising Patrol operations.

The Traffic Unit is supervised by two Sergeants, with many assignments that often
extend beyond the regular duties of traffic safety.

Extending Traffic CSO resources throughout the week would improve response
and reduce the impact of Traffic calls for service with the addition of 1 FTE Traffic

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 74

Assoc tar ES a

85 of 137


--- page 86 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

CSO position. This would also reduce the workload on existing Traffic officers to
perform proactive enforcement and education.

Finding #20: Multiple adjustments to minimum staffing levels since 2016 have represented an
attempt to use data to inform and drive Patrol staffing decisions. However, the
continuous change in minimum staffing is primarily driven by the lack of
deployable officers in Patrol.

Finding #21: The policy allowing for the approval of compensatory time use when it brings
minimum staffing to no more than one officer below minimum is unsustainable,
causing officer fatigue and negatively impacting the Department’s ability to deliver
appropriate police services to the community.

3.9.2 Recommendations

Recommendation #1: — Fully staff Patrol to its authorized complement of police officers (58).
Fund 4 new FTE officer positions to provide a buffer in Patrol (one
additional officer for every two shifts), reduce the continuous impact of
staffing shortages, and backfill for long-term injury and vacancies that
reduce operational positions that are often funded using overtime.

Recommendation #2: Add 2 FTE officers to Patrol and assign one per each day shift on Team
A and Team B to ensure Patrol officer committed time is no more than
60 percent and provide increased services during elevated daytime
demand beginning at 7:00 am.

Recommendation #3: Secure ongoing funding for the recently added, grant-funded CSO.
Deploy with the existing 3 CSOs to Watch 1 and Watch 2 (on both
teams). This would ensure Patrol officer committed time is no more than
60 percent and provide increased services during elevated daytime
demand for service in the community.

Recommendation #4: Increase the minimum number of deployed Patrol staff on Watch 4 to
no less than 6 Patrol officers from 2:00 am until the end of the shift once
Patrol staffing positions are added.

Recommendation #5: ‘Increase the minimum number of deployed Patrol staff at the start of
Watch | to no less than 6 Patrol officers once Patrol staffing positions
are added.

Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 75

ELETYGQATE
ee ss oc A eS

86 of 137


--- page 87 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Recommendation #6: Restructure the Traffic Unit, utilizing 1 of the 2 current Traffic
Sergeants to provide full management of supervisory responsibilities for
the Unit.

Recommendation #7: _Reallocate 1 of 2 Traffic Sergeant positions to a newly formalized and
dedicated Downtown Unit / Problem-Oriented Policing team to address
downtown response, quality-of-life issues, homelessness, business
needs, events, and community engagement. Organize such programs
and services under a newly formed Community Engagement Unit that
could be supervised with the Traffic Sergeant’s reallocation without the
addition of anew FTE. A Community Engagement Unit would augment
overall Patrol response by engaging businesses and neighborhoods
directly and addressing problems that significantly impact the greater
community.

Recommendation #8: Add 1 FTE CSO to Traffic and deploy with the existing Traffic CSO
to extend weekly coverage and support to assist Motor Officers in more
effectively performing traffic enforcement and collision investigations.

Recommendation #9: In light of the increased risk and liability in policing today, the
Department should consider the future potential of adding 2
Lieutenants to Patrol and deploying Patrol Lieutenants as Watch
Commanders to ensure greater management oversight and further
balance Lieutenant workload.

Recommendation #10: Evaluate the current, rotating 4/11 shift schedule in partnership with
affected labor groups to determine whether an alternative, compressed
work schedule could provide evidence-based benefits to the Department
and community and also address training issues, ancillary assignment
challenges, officer fatigue, and overtime use.

Recommendation #11: The Department should manage minimum staffing by shift(s) versus by
hour(s) of day, reducing the impact of the current per-hour scheduling
challenges. This recommendation should be implemented in partnership
with affected labor groups.

Recommendation #12: The Department should consider a management-level “reasonable
accommodation” approach to scheduling that does not automatically
approve leave use when it brings staffing levels below minimum. This
recommendation should be implemented in partnership with affected
labor groups.

CITYGATE Section 3—Field Operations Services Review page 76

87 of 137


--- page 88 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

4.1

SECTION 4—SUPPORT SERVICES / INVESTIGATIONS REVIEW

OVERVIEW

The Support Services / Investigations Division is the second largest division within the Department
and is commanded by a Captain. The Captain has three direct reports, all of whom are Lieutenants

who each manage bureaus or multiple work units.

In review of this Division, Citygate found that office administrative tasks and assignments were
being performed by the Captain or Lieutenants. Such administrative duties would be better aligned
with a clerical support position. Adding a full-time Administrative Assistant to this Division would
enable the Division’s Captain and Lieutenants to spend their time and capacity more efficiently,
with a greater focus on priorities which only they can manage.

The Division encompasses the following units and functions:

4.2

o Criminal Investigations
o Recruitment and Background Investigations
o Community Relations

o Media Relations

o Peace Officer Standards and Training (POST) Compliance

o Volunteers

o Youth Services Unit (YSU) and Police Activities League (PAL)

ef Facilities

INVESTIGATIONS SERVICES BUREAU

Investigations Services is managed by a Lieutenant and supervised by two detective Sergeants.
Staffing positions for the Bureau are provided in the following table.

Section 4—Support Services / Investigations Review page 77

ELETYGQATE

ee (eres

88 of 137


--- page 89 ---
GEEYRQARDE

ass Oct w

City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Table 11—Investigations Bureau — Staffing

Number of
Personnel

[ueutenantrinvestigatons |
Detetve Sergeants SSC
‘caso Detcives ———SSS~idCSCC
‘brug EnorsamentAgeney—TaskFoce [4

Position

Tong Enoroment Agency Sergeant) [4
[county Gun Voence TaskFoce fA
FRetretAnnitantivesigntors (Pm |
[rorecc Spedsist SS
[communiy Senice Ofer Sd
[adirstaive Asssant SSS

4.2.1 Lieutenant of Investigations

This is an executive leadership position that reports directly to the Support Services Captain. The
current Lieutenant has twenty-five years of Department experience and, in addition to duties as the
Investigations Lieutenant, is the Commander of the regional Crisis Negotiation Team, for which
the Lieutenant/Commander trains eight hours per quarter in addition to callouts. The Lieutenant is
also currently serving as the Management Association President.

4.2.2 Detective Sergeants

The Investigations Services Bureau is supervised by two detective (police) Sergeants who report
directly to the Lieutenant of Investigations. Additionally, there is a third detective (police) Sergeant
assigned within the Bureau, but that position is assigned to a regional task force and does not have
supervisory duties within the Department. Both Sergeants have a moderate level of additional
duties, which is not uncommon for a municipal police department the size of SMPD. The time
commitment to additional duties was estimated by one Sergeant to be as high as 15 hours per week,
which amounts to nearly 40 percent of the regularly scheduled workweek.

4.2.3 Case Detectives

The Detective Unit has eight detectives assigned with two detectives specifically assigned to
investigate sexual assaults. One of the eight assigned detectives is classified as “Senior” detective,
meaning that detective is not subject to the normal, four-year duty assignment rotation that the rest
of the detectives in the Unit are assigned to. Turnover is high in the Unit due to promotions, thus
creating an inexperienced cadre of detectives.

Section 4—Support Services / Investigations Review page 78

89 of 137


--- page 90 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

The Bureau also has three detectives assigned to task force positions working outside of the
Department, including two assigned to separate Drug Enforcement Agency units and one assigned
to a Countywide gun violence task force managed by the District Attorney’s Office.

Additionally, there are four retired annuitant detectives working within the Bureau that handle a
significant investigative caseload, including two assigned to handle “cold” cases and two that
handle fraud cases as well as low-level sexual assault cases and sex registrants.

There are no under-cover (UC) detectives within the Bureau, nor are there any specialized
investigative units. All detectives are considered “general crimes” detectives.

4.2.4 Case Management

Investigative cases are typically generated from police reports taken by Patrol and then referred to
Investigations for additional follow-up. The Investigations Lieutenant, with input from Patrol
Lieutenants, manages the inflow of cases to the detectives.

There is a case management module within the Department’s Records Management System (RMS)
software, however, Investigations leaders (Lieutenant and/or Sergeants) do not use this system
extensively. It is unclear whether the lack of use is due to the functionality of the module or a lack
of familiarity or training among staff. The Records Supervisor was able to run case reports, but
Citygate found that the Unit supervisors are tracking assigned cases manually with an Excel
spreadsheet that was created by one of the two current supervisors. Citygate obtained copies of
both the Excel spreadsheet and a custom RMS case report; however, neither tracking report was
useful in calculating detective workload and/or case closure rates.

Subjective analysis—based on interviews with the Investigations Lieutenant, both Detective
Sergeants, and the Senior Detective—suggests that the current workload volume of detectives is
such that they do not have time to investigate most property-related crimes.

Based again on the subjective analysis of the interviews, Citygate believes that the addition of one
detective to the Bureau could facilitate more time spent on property-related cases. However, before
adding additional detective positions, the Department should address efforts towards tracking
detective workload and productivity utilizing existing software systems to better understand
whether additional resources could increase clearance rates.

The following table shows investigative cases managed by the Unit over a four-year period.

Section 4—Support Services / Investigations Review page 79

ELETYGQATE
ee ss oc A eS

90 of 137


--- page 91 ---
GEEYRQARDE

ass Oct w

City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Table 12—Investigative Services Case Management (2020-2023

Cases Clearance Arrest
Assigned Rate Rate

mm | em |

Year

ee
ee
Oe

Data obtained from San Mateo PD RMS report run on 01-16-2024

4.2.5 Community Service Officer (CSO) and Digital Forensic Specialist

The Investigations Bureau is supported by two professional staff positions including a Digital
Forensic Specialist and a CSO. The Digital Forensic Specialist assists the Bureau by conducting
forensic examination of all technology associated with a case to include computers and mobile
phones. Every case involves some degree of digital analysis such that the workload of this position
is augmented by fully sworn detectives who receive additional training in this area.

There is one CSO assigned to the Bureau full time. This position is responsible for follow-up work
on “missing person” cases as well as managing massage parlor business check and backgrounds.
Additionally, the Investigations CSO manages the pawn shop and secondhand dealer slip registry
to track down stolen property. The current CSO assigned has also developed a high degree of
experience and expertise at crime scene investigations and is routinely called out to process major
crimes scenes that the County crime lab does not respond to. According to the detective Sergeants,
this position’s level of expertise is such that, even after being rotated out the Investigations Bureau,
the CSO is often called out to handle crime scenes.

The CSO is also called out to support the Crime Reduction Unit when they serve search warrants.
During such call-outs, the CSO serves as the evidence “finder,” which is a designated person to
collect and document all evidence gathered during a search warrant. When the CSO is called out
to process a crime scene or support a search warrant, this typically takes the CSO away from
normally assigned duties for the equivalent time of approximately one week. Citygate believes
crime scene response and processing should be a standalone job skill and position with training
and responsibilities which exceed that of a CSO.

Thus, Citygate recommends the creation of a new Crime Scene Specialist position to be
permanently assigned to Investigations. This position can be responsible for conducting crime
scene investigations and evidence gathering. This position could also assist with digital forensic
analysis.

Section 4—Support Services / Investigations Review page 80

91 of 137


--- page 92 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

4.2.6 Life360

Life360 is an information technology company headquartered in San Mateo that publishes a
mobile app designed for families and close friends to stay connected and informed regarding each
other’s whereabouts and safety. It offers features such as real-time location sharing, notifications
for arrivals and departures, driving safety analysis, and emergency assistance. Families commonly
use the app to keep track of each other’s locations—especially parents who want to know their
children’s whereabouts.

Due to the application’s ability to record geographical information associated with mobile phones,
the company receives a significant number of requests for subscriber information from law
enforcement agencies outside of San Mateo. The company’s policy is to require a search warrant
to release this information. If the requesting law enforcement agency resides outside the County
of San Mateo, the search warrant must be “domesticated.”*

The Investigations Bureau assists law enforcement agencies outside the County to domesticate
search warrants for service at Life360. This workload has a moderate to significant impact on the
detective work unit.

4.3 YOUTH SERVICES UNIT / POLICE ACTIVITIES LEAGUE

The Youth Services Unit (YSU) and Police Activities League (PAL) are led by a Lieutenant. The
Lieutenant is also in charge of the SMPD Wellness Program. One Sergeant, one Parks and
Recreation Supervisor, two Development Directors, two School Resource Officers (SROs), one
Juvenile Probation Officer, and one Clinical Case Manager are under the YSU/PAL Lieutenant’s
command, along with clerical support staff. Five part-time, per diem City employees work in YSU
in the Parks and Recreation program to support YSU and PAL. These staff support the
Department’s PAL, Explorer Scouts, and Diversion programs and assist the SROs. The SRO
program is partly funded by the City and the school district.

4.3.1 Youth Services Unit

The YSU performs many functions including an Explorer Program with approximately 20
explorers that can feed the CSO program and later become officers or dispatchers. This detail
involves meetings, training, mentoring, and direct supervision to ensure the youth in the program
are safe. Explorers attend and assist at PAL, Department, and City events including the Color

> To "domesticate" a search warrant typically refers to the process by which a search warrant issued in one jurisdiction
is made valid or recognized in another jurisdiction. In the context of technology companies like Life360, if a law
enforcement agency seeks access to user data through a search warrant issued in one jurisdiction (such as a state in
the United States), but the data is stored or accessible in a different jurisdiction (such as another state or country), the
warrant may need to be “domesticated” in the jurisdiction where the data resides. This ensures that the warrant is
legally recognized and enforceable in that jurisdiction.

Section 4—Support Services / Investigations Review page 81
I

92 of 137

CITYGATE


--- page 93 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Guard; at DUI checkpoints; vacation house checks; ride-alongs; and in other contexts where they
can passively observe professional law enforcement activities while supporting the greater law
enforcement mission.

The YSU Lieutenant is also responsible for a Diversion program, and a team of two SROs and one
detective SRO created the applicable MOU on how PAL should engage with students on school
grounds. The YSU Lieutenant informed Citygate of a 98 percent success rate with the Diversion
program, noting that the school, kids, parents, and Department are all working together to prevent
instances of reoffending.

The following table represents the documented activity YSU performs annually (note the decline
related to COVID-19 in 2019-2020). Many activities are undocumented, such as when an SRO
interacts with students and school staff at events, planning, and mentoring.

Table 13—YSU Annual Documented Activity (FY 17/18—22/23)

Fiscal Year

Documented
Activity

17/18 18/19 19/20 20/21 21/22 22/23

Citygate reviewed the schools’ call stats for 2018-2023 and found that the SROs are busy with
incidents and cases, as reflected in the following table. An “incident” becomes a “case” when it

requires investigation.
Table 14—SRO Incidents and Cases by School by Year (2018-2023)

Incidents/Cases by Year

sala] 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023

San Mateo HS 451/49 591/59 221/26 230/16 415/64 407/63

Puitsdalos | 124 | s7a | aoa | vo | toons | so
[seas | #4 | var | asp | ean | sv | 708

The SROs also support middle (3), elementary (12), and private schools (7) in San Mateo. If these
schools are added to the total of the five high schools, the total activity shows the SROs time is
very demanding.

eieeea ee Section 4—Support Services / Investigations Review page 82

ass Oct wre Ss

93 of 137


--- page 94 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Table 15—Total School Incidents and Cases (2018-2023)

Value 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023

frotalcases | 420 | to | c6 | 0 | a” | 1

Given that the school district has 180 days of mandated education, the average number of incidents
per day was between 6.7 and 8.3 for 2022—2023. This average does not account for travel time
between schools, downtime for report writing, or time spent attending diversion meetings. In
2018-2019, 3 SROs handled slightly more incidents. Citygate sees an opportunity to provide better
customer service to schools and students while reducing the potential for burnout by increasing
the staffing level to four SROs—adding two FTE SROs to YSU. The numbers reflected in the
preceding tables do not include all of the City and Department events that SROs attend to support
the Department’s mission.

It is worth noting that the National Association of School Resource Officers (NASRO)
recommends one specially trained school resource officer per 1,000 students.° The City’s student
population far exceeds this standard relative to the current number of SROs.

According to NASRO:

Previous thought has been to place one SRO per 1,000 students. NASRO recommends

considering factors such as campus size (including acreage and number of buildings),

school climate and location, and the number of non-sworn safety team members on
campus when determining the number of SROs needed on campus.

4.3.2 Therapy K9

The Department became the first in the country to acquire a Therapy K9, which entails the officer
handler bringing the K9 to school and City events. A tobacco grant supports the Youth Services
officer / handler.

The K9 will need attention when the five-year term is up and the officer goes back to Patrol, and
there will be a need to acquire a new Therapy K9. The Therapy K9 helps to build relationships
within the schools and polishes the law enforcement badge by providing much goodwill. Citygate
applauds the Department's efforts related to this program.

® https://www.nasro.org/faq/general/

Section 4—Support Services / Investigations Review page 83

ELETYGQATE
ee ss oc A eS

94 of 137


--- page 95 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

4.3.3 Police Activities League

The PAL program is popular with local students and the Department, with the YSU Lieutenant
leading the program. However, given the nature of the responsibilities related to management of
PAL, there is an opportunity to better utilize the Lieutenant’s time by creating a civilian manager
position to lead the PAL program. The Lieutenant spends much time in PAL meetings, budgeting,
working with Parks and Recreation staff for planning and resource management, and other
activities that do not require a sworn officer position. The PAL manager position is much like an
executive director of a non-profit. The position requires attending Board meetings and
engagement, budgeting, monthly finance reviews on both the City and non-profit sides, HR and
reviewing/selecting Board members, helping to set up non-profit new hires, coordinating and
managing scholarship committees, monitoring grants, planning and performing fundraising events,
coordinating with the Parks and Recreation Supervisor to plan community and programmatic
events, and more.

4.4 ADMINISTRATIVE TECHNICIAN

An Administrative Technician is under the command of the Support Services Lieutenant and is a
gatekeeper for all things related to Department payroll processing. The Technician started with the
City in 1989 and has a tremendous amount of corporate knowledge. The Administrative
Technician works with all divisions and units in the Department to ensure payroll actions are taken
correctly. The Administrative Technician is involved in the City’s process of converting all payroll
processing to the Workday scheduling/payroll processing system. At the time of this operational
analysis, all payroll processing was entered into the InTime payroll scheduling/processing system
and then imported into the Eden software system. All City departments will eventually be
converted to utilization of Workday software.

Citygate staff found the Administrative Technician to be well-organized and helpful, providing
short turnarounds related to Citygate’s document requests. Some Administrative Technician
responsibilities include the processing of Personnel Action Forms from the POST Compliance
Officer to ensure pay incentives for educational and POST certificates are included in an
employee’s paycheck. The Administrative Technician also reports directly to the Chief of Police
when providing a quarterly report of grant activity. All financial activities must be balanced
through Workday. Also, quarterly projects and deposits of payee accounts report for items such as
K9 maintenance and asset forfeiture on paper files. Citygate sees an opportunity to transition from
paper reporting to online reporting for all fiscal activities.

Some of the Administrative Technician’s other responsibilities include complete payroll
processing (InTime and export pay periods for the entire Department every second Monday, or on
Sundays if a holiday lands on a Monday); making payroll and timesheet adjustments; sending

CITYGATE Section 4—Support Services / Investigations Review page 84

95 of 137


--- page 96 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

paysheets to supervisors for approval; exporting data; and checking to verify court overtime and
emergency overtime.

4.5 FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

4.5.1 Findings

Finding #22: The Captain and Lieutenants are performing office administrative tasks and
assignments related to Support Services / Investigations. Such administrative duties
would be better aligned with a clerical support position.

Finding #23: Detectives tend to be promoted out of the Unit prior to their full rotation. Thus, the
experience level of the detectives (with the exception of the Senior Detective) is
low.

Finding #24: Due to workload capacity, the Detective Unit investigates few (if any) property
crimes.

Finding #25: All 8 detectives, plus the 2 detective Sergeants, are assigned generally to
Investigations. There are no specialized investigative units.

Finding #26: The CSO assigned to Investigations is often called out to process crime scenes and
collect evidence and search warrants, a specialized skillset typically beyond that of
a CSO.

Finding #27: Domesticating search warrants for allied police agencies seeking subscriber
information from Life360 has a moderate to significant impact on the workload of
the Investigations Unit.

4.5.2 Recommendations

Recommendation #13: Consider the addition of 1 full-time Administrative Assistant to the
Support Services / Investigations Division. This would enable the
Captain and Lieutenants to manage their time more efficiently,
providing greater capacity for priorities which only they can manage.

Recommendation #14: Once workload indicators are properly assessed and subjective analysis
is validated, consider adding | full-time detective to the Investigations
Bureau.

Recommendation #15: Consider alternatives to leverage institutional knowledge developed by
detectives by either adding an additional “Senior” detective position or

Section 4—Support Services / Investigations Review page 85

ELETYGQATE
ee ss oc A eS

96 of 137


--- page 97 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Recommendation #16:

Recommendation #17:

Recommendation #18:

extending current detective rotations by an additional two years,
provided performance objectives are being met.

Add 1 Crime Scene Specialist as a new position of to be permanently
assigned to Investigations and conduct crime scene investigations and
evidence gathering. This position could also assist with digital forensic
analysis.

The Department should consider the future potential of converting the
4 retired annuitant positions to 2 full-time detective positions once
current funding for the retired annuitant positions has expired.

Consider reorganizing the Investigations Bureau into two specialized
units including a Special Victim’s Unit (SVU) and a Major Crimes Unit.
The SVU would handle all domestic violence cases, sex cases, child and
elder abuse cases, and missing persons cases. The Major Crimes Unit
would be divided into a Violent Crimes Unit and a Property Crimes
Unit. [Note: Prior to the completion of this report, the Department had
already implemented this recommendation with a reorganization of the
Bureau into Major Crimes and General Felony units.]

The following figure reflects Citygate’s proposed reorganization:

Figure 46—Investigations Bureau — Proposed Reorganization

Special Investigations

Unit

Investigations
Services
Lieutenant

Major Crimes Unit

(onset) Task Force Officers (3)

(Sergeant)

Digital Forensic
Specialist (.5)

Crime Scene
Specialist (.5)

Detectives (4)

ELTYGATE

ass Oct wre Ss

Section 4—Support Services / Investigations Review
ee

Digital Forensic
Specialist (.5)

Crime Scene Specialist|

Violent Crimes
Senior Detectives (2)

Property Crimes
Detectives (3)

page 86

97 of 137


--- page 98 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Recommendation #19: As PAL funding/budget allows, the Department should consider the
creation of a civilian manager position to manage the daily operations
of the PAL program. The Lieutenant would be present to provide
effective leadership to the YSU and SRO staff. Additionally, Citygate
is concerned that the YSU/PAL Lieutenant is performing specialized
activities that will hamper the ability to move elsewhere in the
Department due to a lack of exposure in other areas that require sworn
officer capabilities.

Recommendation #20: Increase the staffing level of School Resource Officers to 4 SROs
total—adding 2 FTE SROs to the Youth Services Unit. With this
addition, the Department can provide better customer service to schools
and students while reducing the potential for officer burnout.

Section 4—Support Services / Investigations Review page 87 eiame kee
OO VATE s

98 of 137


--- page 99 ---
99 of 137

--- page 100 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

SECTION 5—BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND EXECUTIVE ASSISTANCE

5.1 BUSINESS MANAGER

The Business Management unit is led by a Business Manager who is a direct report to the Chief
of Police and has more than 22 years of experience working with the City. The Business Manager’s
strong business acumen was evident during Citygate’s review when discussing the Department’s
financials.

The Business Manager spends a significant portion of time on expenditures and revenues, as the
Department has the largest of the City’s budgets. During Citygate’s operational analysis, the
Manager was busy helping to implement the workday budget monitoring program. With no
repository for contracts and grants, there may be an opportunity to utilize a professional software
application to monitor grants and contracts. The Business Manager also processes proclamations,
contracts, and resolutions for City Council meetings; and performs the necessary follow-up to
ensure document signatures are obtained.

The Business Manager will also assist with special project RFPs, such as the RFP published by
the City in relation to this Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis, as well as a
childcare stipend project to provide support to officers and dispatchers.

5.2 EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT

The Executive Assistant is a direct report to the Chief of Police and has been with the Department
since the 1980s. The Executive Assistant utilizes Microsoft Office applications to manage
responsibilities including the Chief’s schedule, calendar meetings, personnel file updates, visiting

Section 5—Business Management and Executive Assistance page 89 2 sae ea Pe
OO eee

100 of 137


--- page 101 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

background investigator file review assistance, purging files via records retention schedules,
providing the Chiefs correspondence, issuing memos, and reviewing other division memos.

The Executive Assistant also works with Department retirees, takes weekly command staff
meeting minutes and assists with staff meetings, and is responsible for the Department’s ordering
of office equipment.

5.3 FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

5.3.1 Findings

Finding #28: There is no repository for contracts and grants, and the Department is currently
utilizing a manual process for record-keeping.

5.3.2 Recommendations

Recommendation #21: The Department should migrate the existing, manual record-keeping
process for contracts and grants to a software application to increase the
efficiency of business operations.

crTyGarTe section 5—Business Management and Executive Assistance page 90
fade Gee's <a

101 of 137


--- page 102 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

SECTION 6—POLICE TECHNICAL SERVICES REVIEW

6.1 POLICE TECHNICAL SERVICES DIVISION

6.1.1 Unit Overview

The Police Technical Services Division is led by a civilian manager with the title of Police
Technical Services Administrator (equivalent rank of Captain) who is a direct report to the Chief
of Police. Directly reporting to the Administrator are 2 Dispatch Supervisors, 1 IT Technician, |
Body-Worn Camera (BWC) Technician, 1 Property and Evidence Supervisor, and | Records
Supervisor. The Administrator performs oversight and operational responsibilities for three
primary units:

o Public Safety Dispatch
o Records
o Property and Evidence

The Administrator focuses on a balance between Department and community needs when
prioritizing the responsibilities of each unit. Customer service and operational efficiency are
equally important.

The Public Safety Dispatch Unit provides push-to-talk, 9-1-1, and non-emergency phone service
to internal and external customers. Additionally, the Department provides dispatch services for the
City of Brisbane (population 4,497). Dispatchers are also call-takers, and they will make calls and
provide research assistance to officers, answer all emergency and non-emergency calls for service
for Department staff and Public Works, and assist the Records Unit with warrants and records
updates.

The Records Unit processes subpoena and records requests, processes warrant logs and performs
due diligence, provides customer service at the front counter, monitors and makes California Law
Enforcement Telecommunications System (CLETS) entries, assists with numerous subpoenas
duces tecum and citation processing, and more. The Records Unit Supervisor would like to
streamline the records request process, digitize records processes and management, and update
policies and procedures. The Unit is currently experiencing challenges related to retaining staff
and is heavily reliant on per diem staff.

The Property and Evidence Unit Supervisor was hired during Citygate’s analysis in September
2023. Citygate has reviewed the 2022 performance audit of the Property and Evidence operation,
and has conducted interviews with staff, and concurs with the findings of the performance audit.
The Unit has an opportunity to perform a reorganization, tighten evidence-booking procedures,
and enhance security to improve risk management and operational efficiency.

Section 6—Police Technical Services Review page 91 wi tye ATE

102 of 137


--- page 103 ---
GEEYRQARDE

City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

6.2 PUBLIC SAFETY DISPATCH

The Dispatch Unit, also known as a Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP), provides
communications for the Department as well as the City of Brisbane Police Department. The Unit
is authorized 2 FTE Supervisors and 14 FTE Dispatcher I/II positions. Dispatchers are also call-
takers and are cross-trained in both positions. During Citygate’s analysis, the Unit was staffed with
9 dispatchers. Supervisors fill in as needed due to a 20 percent retention rate.

There is no Dispatch Supervisor currently assigned to night shifts, leaving an opportunity for
leadership improvement.

The need for supervision and leadership is unquestionable. The Association of
Public-Safety Communications Officials’ (APCO) Staffing and Retention in Public
Safety Communications Centers Effective Practices Guide (2005), under Effective
Practices: Communications, says: “Communications Center performance was the #1
predictor of employee satisfaction. Employee ratings of center performance... were the

strongest predictor of overall employee satisfaction... The characteristics of effective
supervision and management include regular recognition of employees’ good work,

‘decision processes are fair,’ “interactions with supervisor and upper management are
positive,’ and ‘shows interest in creating good working conditions.’” All of these best
practices are absent without supervision.

The Department’s shortage of dispatchers results in pressure on the allotted overtime budget.
According to Department finance records, the annual overtime budget has been overspent each
year between 2020 and 2023, as shown in the following table.

Section 6—Police Technical Services Review page 92

Assoc tar ES a

103 of 137


--- page 104 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Table 16—Dispatch Overtime Spending (2020-2023)

Fiscal Element 2020-2021 2021-2022 2022-2023

Budgeted Overtime $245,504 $250,414 $257,926

Cumulative Overtime $291,565 $343,362 $426,899

Amount Over Budget $46,061 $92,948 $168,973

Some contributing factors to short-staffing include mandatory overtime, the evolving mindset of
many Gen Z applicants, compensation, and career development. During a recent hiring process for
dispatchers in 2022, the Department retained only one in five tratnees—a 20 percent retention rate.

In 2023, Dispatch staff compiled a salary survey of surrounding departments and found that top-
step compensation was not as competitive as expected. The results of the survey are reflected in
the following table.

Table 17—Regional PDs: Dis

Top Step with Night
Incentive Differential

siamo | s499 [nen | somone
feramero | wae |
fesweoscwro | saa [|
mower | wee |

Agency Top Step Incentive

rawcwre | sm | i SSSid SS
comero | ww | TC
Ce
enone | swe | |S
somo | sme | |

. 2.5% AA, 1% POST Cert,
South San Francisco PD $51.75 BA & POST Cert $54.34

Section 6—Police Technical Services Review page 93 Ci tye ATE

104 of 137


--- page 105 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

6.2.1 Recruitment and Retention

Based on Citygate’s experience, conversations with Department staff, review of the International
Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP) 2019 article The State of Recruitment: A Crisis for Law
Enforcement,’ and analysis of the APCO Staffing and Retention in Public Safety Answering Points
(PSAPs): A Supplemental Study report from George Mason University in 2018,° there are several
areas which contribute to fewer applicants and reduced retention of new hires. These contributing
factors include:

o Generational differences (concerns with work-life balance and a desire for less
forced overtime)

o The public image of law enforcement (scrutiny of the police and media coverage
contributed to a negative view of police among many young people)

o Hiring process challenges (the IACP recruitment survey noted that 47.5 percent of
agencies reported a hiring process that lasted from four months to over a year).

During Citygate’s organizational analysis, Citygate reached out to APCO to use their Project
RETAINS web interface,’ which provides staffing recommendations based on the data field inputs.
Although no specific APCO RETAINS recommendations are identified in this report, the inputs
and questions asked of the user were incorporated into Citygate’s analysis process.

Because APCO is an international organization, they have a deep bench in the areas of business
acumen and communications experience. While PSAPs exist in various locations and sizes, they
share many similar concerns. As with Police Officers, dispatchers are people too, and human
characteristics change over time as cultures shift and evolve.

Some of APCO’s findings include:

o 65.4 percent of all PSAPs report an increase in the number of dispatched calls in
the previous years.

o Supportive supervision, coworker support, and perceived recognition from the
public merged as key factors to employee retention (proactive supervisors and inter-
employee cooperation create a supportive environment for workers).

o Coworker support is an important factor in reducing psychological distress among
PSAP staff.

7 https://www.theiacp.org/sites/default/files/239416 IACP RecruitmentBR_HR_0.pdf
8 https://apconetforum.org/iweb/upload/StaffingandRetentionPS APsSupplementalStudy.pdf
° https://www.apcointl.org/services/staffing-retention/project-retains/

CITYGATE 2ection 6—Police Technical Services Review page 94
fade Gee's a

105 of 137


--- page 106 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

o Staffing pressures were an issue with PSAPs of varying sizes. Large PSAPs need
help with retention, with over 38 percent reporting that their staffing levels have
decreased. Small PSAPs are most likely to have met staffing levels for most of a
year (40 percent), but they are least likely to specialize (tasks), meaning employees
must focus on multiple tasks as part of their work instead of focusing on one job.

o The study found an average retention rate of 71 percent, which is down from the
2009 rate of 81 percent retention, indicating the growing retention problem.

Leaders in the law enforcement profession understand the fatal loop that is created by low retention
coupled with a high workload—leading to a situation where an agency is always searching for
qualified applicants. Consideration should be given to a two-step solution:

1. Working with HR and Department leadership, create a workgroup charged with
modifying the existing recruiting and retention processes (recruiting and retention
must work together) and develop an implementation strategy with a timeline for
accountability.

2. Review the proposed schedule as a guide to begin filling positions, seeking input
along the way. This process is living and change along the way is expected.

6.2.2 Capacity and Scheduling

During Citygate’s organizational analysis, a Dispatch Supervisor asked for quantifiable metrics to
determine whether 14 dispatchers was the right fit for the Unit, based on call volume, incidents,
officer-initiated activity, and the requirements of Brisbane.

The following figure reflects the Department’s current Dispatch schedule.

Table 18—Current Dispatch Unit Schedule

Tech. Services Administrator
Team 1 Dispatch Supervisor

‘Team 4

Team 2 Dispatch Supervisor

Section 6—Police Technical Services Review page 95 pax ea Pe

ass oe (Ree Ss

106 of 137


--- page 107 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
LS

The following table shows a proposed Dispatch schedule. With full staffing (not going over
budget), the Dispatch Unit can be staffed “right-sized” to support the needs of the Department and
community. This level of staffing would resolve retention issues while building more esprit de
corps and enhancing employee wellness.

Table 19—Proposed Draft Dispatch Schedule

Current Draft Schedule

Current Schedule Week 1 Week 2

Sun Mon Tues Wed Thurs Fri Sat Sun Mon Tues Wed Thurs Fri Sat
Team 1
Supervisor 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 8-hr 1200-0000
Disp 1 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 8-hr
Disp 2 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 8-hr
Disp 3 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 8-hr
Disp 4 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 8-hr
Team 1 Sup Cov 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 8-hr
Disp 5 P/T 1200-0000 1200-0000 1200-0000 1200-0000
Total AM 3+SupCov 3+SupCov 3+ Sup Cov 3+ Sup Cov 3 + Sup Cov 3 + Sup Cov
Total PM 2.5 2.5 2 2.5 2.5 2
Team 2
Supervisor 8-hr 1000-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800
Disp 6 8-hr 2200-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600
Disp 7 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600
Disp 8 8-hr 1000-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800
Team 2 Sup Cov 0800-2000 8-hr1000-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800
Disp 9 8-hr 2200-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600
Total AM 1 3 + Sup Cov 2+ Sup Cov 2+ Sup 2+ Sup 2+ Sup 2+ Sup 2+ Sup
Total PM 2 2 3 3 3 3) 3

Proposed Draft Schedule

Proposed Schedule Week 1 Week 2

Sun Mon Tues Wed Thurs Fri Sat Sun Mon Tues Wed
Team 1 AM
Supervisor 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 8-hr 1000-1800
Disp 1 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 8-hr 1000-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800
Disp 2 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 8-hr 1000-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800
Disp 3 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 8-hr 1000-1800 0600-1800
‘Team 2 Cover AM
Disp 4 8-hr 0600-1400 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800
Disp 5 0600-1800 8-hr 0600-1400 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800
Disp 6 0600-1800 0600-1800 8-hr 0600-1400 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800
Disp7 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800 8-hr 0600-1400 0600-1800 0600-1800 0600-1800
dea
Disp PAE
Total AM 3+ 1Sup 3+ 1 Sup 3+ 1 Sup 3+1Lead 3+1 Lead 3+1Lead 3+1Lead 3+ 1Sup 3+ 1 Sup 3+ Lead 3+Lead 3+Lead
Total PM
Team 3 PM
Supervisor 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 8-hr 2200-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600
Disp 8 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 8-hr 2200-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600
Disp 9 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 8-hr 2200-0600 1800-0600
Disp 10 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 8-hr 2200-0600
‘Team 4 Cover PM
Disp 11 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 8-hr 1800-0200 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600
Disp 12 1800-0600 1800-0600 8-hr 1800-0200 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600
Disp 13 1800-0600 8-hr 1800-0200 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600
Disp 14 8-hr 1800-0200 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600 1800-0600
Feam2Suptoy
Total AM
Total PM 3+ 1 Sup 3+ 1 Sup 3+ 1 Sup 3+ 1 Lead 3+ 1 Lead 3+ 1 Lead 3+ 1 Lead 3+Lead 3+Lead

niin

GEEYRQARDE

ass Oct wre Ss

Section 6—Police Technical Services Review

page 96
ee Tee Te ee

107 of 137


--- page 108 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

6.2.3. Workload and Performance

To quantify how many dispatchers and call-takers are needed to “right-size” the Communications
Center (PSAP), the following empirical and anecdotal data points were considered.

o Number of annual inbound calls

o Number of annual outbound calls

o Current average call duration

o 911 answer times (percentage)

o Number of total annual calls (911 and non-emergency)

o Ancillary tasks during a shift
o Review of staff leave reports
o PSAP work schedules

o Interviews with staff

Because a PSAP operates 24/7/365, and shift durations vary from 5/8, 4/10, 3/12, and
combinations thereof, the analysis refers to hours worked/available instead of “days” available.
The average dispatcher used 30-days of leave annually (240 hours):

2080 - 240 = 1840 available hours annually.

It is understood that there is no state or federal requirement or standard for the number of
Dispatchers needed per capita; rather, leaders look to “right-size” a PSAP to ensure good customer
service (internally and externally) can exist. The Department is budgeted for 14 FTE dispatchers
and is currently staffed with nine. Dispatchers are assigned call-taker duties at the start of their
shifts. The existing dispatch schedule operates with a 3/12 model—three days on, four days off,
with an eight-hour shift on alternate weeks:

3/12 x 3 = 36 hours x 2 weeks = 72 + 8 hours = 80 hours every two weeks.
The schedule is split into two teams: Team | and Team 2:

Team 1 has one Supervisor, Team | Supervisor cover, four dispatchers, and one per diem
staff working shifts 0600—1800, 1800-0600, and 1200-0000 (per diem).

Team 2 has one supervisor, Team 2 Supervisor cover, and four dispatchers working shifts
0800-2000, 0600-1800, 2200-0600, and 1800-0600.

Section 6—Police Technical Services Review page 97
ee

108 of 137

CITYGATE


--- page 109 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

The National Emergency Number Association (NENA) standard for answering 9-1-1 calls is for
95 percent of calls to be answered within 20 seconds. The current Dispatch staff accomplishes this
standard. According to the Department’s 2023 data:

o Average call duration: 92 seconds

o Total inbound 9-1-1 calls: 26,584

o Total inbound non-emergency calls: 104,952
o Total outbound calls: 37,806

o Total number of calls: 173,507

Adjusting these annual figures provides an understanding of the

daily call volume in Dispatch:

73 inbound 9-1-1 calls per day
288 inbound non-emergency calls per day

+ 104 outbound calls per day
= 465 calls per day in and out of Dispatch

With an understanding of daily call volume, Citygate returned to the
average call duration measure:

465 daily calls
x 92 seconds each
= 42,780 seconds

42,780 seconds
= 60 minutes
= 713 minutes average daily time spent on calls

713 minutes

= 24 hours per day
= 30 calls per hour (1 call every 2 minutes)

According to the Microsoft Power BI analytics for all unit classes in 2023—-Community Services,
Patrol, Mutual Aid, Police Services (parking, detectives, special assignments)—15,000, or 56.9
percent, of distinct incidents were officer initiated, followed by 8,000 incidents (31.1 percent) from

CITYGATE 2ection 6—Police Technical Services Review page 98
fade Gee's a

109 of 137


--- page 110 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

telephone, 2,000 (9.76 percent) wireless 9-1-1, and less than 1,000 (1.93 percent) from E9-1-1. A
total of 25,565 distinct incidents took place annually (70 daily incidents, or 2.9 incidents per hour).

The following table shows PSAP data for 2023.

Call Summary

San Mateo PD
200 Franklin Parkway
San Mateo, CA 94403

Year:
Agency Affiliation
PSAP Size

County: San Mateo

2023
Police
Extra Large

Report Date:
Report Date From:
Report Date To:
Period Group:
Days Of Week:
Call Type:

Abandoned Filters:

NS! Filters:

Agency Affiliation:
PSAP Size:

Table 20—PSAP Data (2023)

01/16/2024 09:33:58
01/01/2023
12/31/2023

Month

All

All

Include Abandoned

NSI included in 911
Totals

All
All

[|__| LS | ann | ren |e | sen cd “He | OS | | P| |
2023 2023 May 2023 | June 2023 | July 2023 |August 2023 2023 2023 2023 2023 Total
[acl ana] aural asa]! aaaal ace] aaral_—_aves| 2006] afer] 006] 2.108] ane
ss [el rf sof lr] a a a] al a al
a | a | a ee
ae a ee a ee me me ae ee me
= —
a)

inbound | 776] rara[ oasa| ara] aval 00s] ove oore| one] _assr| __aaui| a1
ya
=r)
rd
yaaa
alm

Gisw3 1510-01

favanconed | __oof__ va sa sf rai anf owl va] vai a
foutbouna | asa] __aaer| sal act] Saco] azar] aaa] avos]_ a7] amo]
a |: A | ES
fencer [otal egal val sual al seal _ousl otal sual [sole
a | es — so — tal — mcr] —— tu — sel — tsi] — aye] aa) —aet] — Samal — taal ae

annensiuwipy

29,864
| |
| 104,952]
| _788|
| 37,806)
mx:
[143.643]

—
=
|

The average call duration appears to be constant at 1:32 minutes, with the 9-1-1 call volume steady
at slightly over 2,300 calls per month. /Note: this report only shows the data being collected; a
review with the CAD/RMS vendor should yield a more detailed report.]

6.2.4 Other (Anecdotal) Considerations

Additional considerations that impact the workload for both call-takers and dispatchers include:
o Officer radio traffic (push-to-talk, self-initiated, etc.)
o Critical incidents requiring response from multiple officers

o Ancillary responsibilities such as report processing, backgrounds, and internal
radio and call traffic

niin

Section 6—Police Technical Services Review page 99 wi tye ATE

110 of 137


--- page 111 ---
GEE Y

ass Oct w

City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

o Brisbane traffic
o The shifting volume of calls during the time of week/day

o Budgetary considerations (e.g., is it more cost-effective to pay overtime versus
filling vacancies)

o Staffing levels, and the impact of fatigue and compensation on retention.

Given the call volume of 465 calls daily, 70 distinct incidents via radio and MDC traffic, and
anecdotal considerations of 545 human interactions daily (or 23 interactions per hour), it is
Citygate’s recommendation that every effort be made to recruit and staff the full authorized
complement of 14 Dispatcher I/II FTEs for the City’s PSAP.

6.3 RECORDS

Since 2021, the Records Unit has been led by a Supervisor who has a thorough technological
knowledge of the Unit. According to the budget, staff interviews, and document review, Records
Unit staff are busy with numerous tasks—including processing subpoenas and records requests,
warrant logs and due diligence, interactions with front counter customers with walk-in questions,
subpoena duces tecum, citation processing, and more. The Supervisor has a desire to streamline
workflow processes to improve operational efficiency and customer service. Several policies and
procedures enhancing the digital processes and updates to workflows are of great interest.

The Records Unit schedule consists of five Police Records Specialists working three shifts:
Day Shift — 0630-1430 (2) | Relief Shift — 0900-1700 (1) | Swing Shift — 1300-2100 (2)

Lobby hours are Monday through Friday from 8:00 am to 5:00 pm. The Unit makes use of per
diem help, with two per diem personnel working two to three days per week to help with projects
and clearing DOJ/NIBRS kickback errors.

6.3.1 Workload and Capacity

The Unit spends a lot of time on NIBRS entries, edits, and corrections. Another task that requires
considerable time is responding to California Public Records Act (CPRA) requests. In February
2024, the Unit logged over 400 inquiries. With changes from the California legislature over the
past 10 years, this is commonplace in law enforcement agencies throughout the state. Many
agencies have dedicated 1-2 staff to process their CPRAs.

In 2023, the Unit processed 7,438 cases, which averages to 30 cases processed daily based on 250
annual working days. The Department has an opportunity in the Records Unit to make use of a
common leadership phrase: ““What gets counted gets measured.” Tracking the number of citations,
customers at the counter, and reports processed helps to determine staffing levels.

aT ¢ Section 6—Police Technical Services Review page 100

111 of 137


--- page 112 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

The Unit utilizes the RIMS records management system. The technology is available to digitize
most operational workflows. The Supervisor uses InTime for scheduling. In these ways, it is clear
to Citygate that the Records Unit is making meaningful use of technology.

6.3.2 Staffing and Job Specifications

However, the Unit also suffers from a high rate of turnover. The constant training of new
technicians creates a need for more business acumen and corporate experience. The Supervisor
fills in to assist staff in completing their responsibilities; answers to the Administrator; and tries to
stay current with schedules, staffing, and personnel issues. Both the Supervisor and the Records
Unit would benefit from reviewing the Senior Police Records Specialist job specification,
identifying how the position could assist with leadership, and delegating some tasks that impede
the Supervisor’s ability to lead Unit staff. The current Specialist has been with the Department for
40 years and is considering retiring in 2024. A second Senior Police Records Specialist works the
Court Liaison program and is effectively managing subpoenas.

According to HR, the Senior Police Records Specialist job specification was last updated on June
21, 2021. By definition, the Senior Police Records Specialist is to assume responsibility for the
planning and supervision of the activities of the Records Unit on an assigned shift. Additionally,
the position should provide technical support for various significant support functions and provide
administrative and staff assistance to the Records Supervisor. If the Supervisor could receive this
type of support, productivity would increase and, in tandem with the resulting improvement to
customer service, propel the Records Unit forward. Offloading some responsibilities from the
Supervisor to a Specialist would allow the Supervisor more time for leadership and mentoring
along with planning the future of the Unit. Additionally, this position would provide promotional
opportunities to existing staff. The existing Records Specialist I/II positions would benefit from
the leadership and mentoring of both the Supervisor and Senior Police Records Specialist.

6.4 PROPERTY AND EVIDENCE

Citygate reviewed the Property and Evidence
facility, interviewed staff, and reviewed the
Performance Audit of the Property and Evidence
Operation of the Department (2022). The current
Property and Evidence Supervisor came to the
Department in September 2023 with extensive
experience working at the San Mateo County Crime

Section 6—Police Technical Services Review page 101 prawen re

ass oe (Ree Ss

112 of 137


--- page 113 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Lab. Staff use Property-RIMS software!® to manage property. The current staffing model includes
one Supervisor and two Property and Evidence Specialists (one full time, one part time). This
model does not account for adequate staffing of the Unit to intake and process receipt and storage
of evidence, ensure safekeeping, perform required audits, pull evidence for destruction, and other
related tasks of a properly functioning unit.

The Unit is responsible to ensure the proper evidence items are correctly tracked and monitored
for court exhibits, discovery, and the viewing of evidence by prosecution and defense
representatives. POST also notes in part that proper management, adequate budget, and initial and
ongoing training will enhance the efficiency and knowledge of Property and Evidence personnel.
Additionally, a well-organized storage facility and property/evidence cataloging system with well-
designed policies and procedures will enhance success and facilitate the effective operation of the
Unit.

The Supervisor noted that a money, drugs, and guns audit was in process. There is an opportunity
to benefit from a reorganization of the Unit, which could help it to operate more efficiently and
reduce errors. One example is the sole use of Property-RIMS for tracking: the software represents
a single point of failure. A second system/process would be beneficial to track items already
booked. The solution to this could possibly include saving property logs to a network drive on a
weekly basis.

Additionally, the Unit would benefit from an ongoing purging program. The results would provide
sufficient space for existing items while also making space for new items. Citygate and the
Supervisor both agree with the 2022 audit recommendations to better equip the Unit with an
intrusion alarm system and video camera coverage of the Unit—especially the main property
room, narcotics, administrative office, and temporary lockers located inside.

Citygate commends the current Property and Evidence Supervisor for the desire and actions taken
to increase the operational efficiency and security of the Unit.

6.5 FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

6.5.1 Findings

Finding #29: The Property and Evidence Unit is short-staffed, which creates a continual backlog
of booking, processing, and purging property. The Unit needs security upgrades
including an intrusion alarm system and video camera coverage of the entrance,
exit, and storage areas.

'© https://sunridgesystems.com/proproom-evidence-and-property-management/

CITYGATE Section 6—Police Technical Services Review page 102

113 of 137


--- page 114 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Finding #30: Under the current staffing model, there is insufficient staff to perform all of the
responsibilities of the Property and Evidence Unit.

6.5.2 Recommendations

Recommendation #22: Consideration should be given to the [ACP innovations in recruitment,
which includes reaching out to secondary schools and colleges (such as
the College of San Mateo) where officers can bond with students and
intern opportunities exist for students of Criminal Justice programs.
Hiring incentives also attract applicants. Citygate applauds the City for
offering a $15,000 lateral incentive for dispatchers. Other incentives
include partnering with colleges and universities to allow dispatchers
and officers to trade their training hours for credits toward a degree.

Recommendation #23: The Department should consider adding overnight supervision with a
Dispatch Supervisor or Lead Dispatcher position to provide leadership
and risk management.

Recommendation #24: The Records Unit and its Supervisor would benefit from reviewing the
Senior Police Records Specialist job specification, identifying how the
position could assist with leadership, and delegating some tasks that
impede the Supervisor’s ability to lead Unit staff to that position.

Recommendation #25: The Department would benefit from a focus on staffing the Records Unit
with a fully qualified Senior Police Records Specialist to better assist
the Supervisor while also assisting with the mentoring and leadership of
Records Unit staff. Additional consideration should be given to making
a permanent position to process CPRAs, which could be phased in over
time.

Recommendation #26: The Department would greatly benefit from implementing the
recommendations in the 2022 audit as well as budgeting for a Property
and Evidence staffing model that includes | Supervisor, 2 full-time
Specialists, and 1 part-time staff member that can assist with scheduled
and unscheduled leave and periodic audits.

Recommendation #27: Citygate provided the Department with the CA POST Evidence and
Property Function Agency Self-Evaluation (revised February 2022) and
recommends the Supervisor and staff review it on an annual basis. With
the sensitive nature of evidence, the importance of maintaining strict
control is imperative for proper risk management. /Note: Prior to the
completion of this report, the Department had already implemented this

Section 6—Police Technical Services Review page 103

ELETYGQATE
ee ee 8 ss oc A eS

114 of 137


--- page 115 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

recommendation with a per diem position dedicated to a purging

program. ]

Recommendation #28: The Property and Evidence Unit should develop an ongoing purging
program. Such a program would provide sufficient space for existing
items while also making space for new items. Additionally, provide the
Unit Supervisor the ability to utilize per diem staff on an annual basis to
maintain the purging program.

Recommendation #29: Consideration should be given to converting the part-time Property
and Evidence Specialist to a full-time position.

CITYGATE Section 6—Police Technical Services Review page 104

115 of 137


--- page 116 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

SECTION 7—PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS REVIEW

7.1 PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS / INTERNAL AFFAIRS

The Professional Standards Unit was not present on the Department’s organizational chart as of
July 2023. Internal Affairs (IA) consists of a retired annuitant (RA) who retired at the Lieutenant
rank and reports to one of two Services Lieutenants. The Services Lieutenant reviews initial
complaints and assigns them as appropriate. At the end of this section, Citygate offers a proposed
change to the Department’s organizational chart to better align duties and responsibilities within

the Division and units.

7.1.1 Professional Standards Lieutenant

The Lieutenant leading this portion of the Services Division is also responsible for the following:

Sd

Sd

Sd

Sd

Sd

Recruiting/Academy and Backgrounds
Media Relations

Training/POST Compliance
Community Relations

Administrative Technician for payroll

The Professional Standards Lieutenant is tasked with many other responsibilities, not limited to
and including the following (and other duties as assigned):

o Supervising a subordinate Sergeant for Recruitment and Backgrounds and an
officer for Training and POST Compliance

o Overseeing the payroll Technician

o Reviewing policies, procedures, investigations, and other sensitive documents

o Hiring panels

o Responding to information requests from internal and external stakeholders

o Ensuring continuity between the Sergeant and officer

o Updating the Department’s Training Plan

o Emergency Vehicle Operations Course (EVOC)

o Defensive Tactics, principled policing, and First Aid/CPR training and Pursuit
committees (requiring planning and research)

Section 7—Professional Standards Review page 105

ELETYGQATE

ee (eres

116 of 137


--- page 117 ---
GEE Y

ass Oct w

City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

o Ensuring Firearms Committee work is completed

o Range management

o Force response review

o Updating Lexipol policies (gathering documents for review and sending them to

the City Attorney for review and analysis)
o Meeting with other groups and ensuring continuity and operational efficiency

o CPRAs for training, reporting, and court and civil hearings

o Coordination of staff and own responsibilities

o Quarterly safety meetings and follow-up

o Reviewing and analyzing IA reports and preparing annual JA reports
o Performing exit interviews and paperwork processing

o Reviewing and approving all invoices under $10,000

o PIO duties with the Sergeant

o Overseeing community relations / social media

o Honor Guard ceremonies

o Recruiting and Regular Basic Course (RBC) academy events
o Personnel issues and inspections.

7.1.2 Internal Affairs Workload and Case Management

With most law enforcement agencies in 2024, most professional and sworn staff are “spread thin,”
as some City staff confirmed with Citygate. This occurs due to new, unfunded legislative mandates
from the legislature and decreased agency budgets. Additionally, local governments increase the
responsibilities to be managed by local law enforcement agencies to enhance customer service and
collaboration with the community (as well as additional responsibilities with applicable staffing).

Citygate sees an opportunity to enhance the Department’s risk management and increase efficiency
by reducing the workloads of the existing Sergeant and officer by considering the assignment of
duties and responsibilities of the RA from part-time to one FTE Sergeant position. In recent years,
the news has published stories about jurisdictions being sued civilly for the actions of officers. The
fiscal impact of this change would be minimal because the City has already funded the RA
position.

aT ¢ Section 7—Professional Standards Review page 106

117 of 137


--- page 118 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Additionally, Patrol Sergeants are first to examine a claim against one of their Patrol Officers
regarding a complaint. Generally, complaints should be handled at the lowest level through
counseling. However, if the Patrol Sergeant concludes that an investigation is warranted, then the
Patrol Sergeant must take the time to review BWC footage, go out to the community to conduct
interviews, and spend time in the office to write the investigation privately. All of these activities
take the Patrol Sergeant off the street and away from the necessary leadership, mentoring, and
career development of the Patrol officers. Thus, Citygate sees an opportunity to support the
addition of an IA Sergeant position.

The Department tracks [A cases and case management manually. There is an opportunity for the
Department to improve risk management, leadership, and behavior correction by making use of
IA tracking software such as IRPro and the BlueTeam module—monitoring for corrective
behavior with an early warning system. Software applications like [APro provide a standardized
process for the investigating and subject officers. A software application like BlueTeam has the
ability to provide detailed tracking of uses-of-force, pursuits, firearm discharges, complaints, and
more.

As shown in the following figures, the City contracts with ArcGIS to collect and provide data that
is displayed on a public-facing dashboard. The ArcGIS website!! provides the public with IA
transparency by illustrating the number of complaints, dates/times, and dispositions. Citygate
commends the Department’s efforts to ensure public transparency.

Figure 47—Internal Affairs Data (2023)

Internal Investigations Selecta year | Wone | 2020 | 202i | roar REREEM 2022 |
Internal Investigations - Jan 2020 to Mar 2024 C | i °5
omplaints:
Lae Total Calls: 65,380 Arrests: 2,125
Disposition: Four Violations; ALL SUSTAINED , ‘
Month/Year; 9/11/2023, 5:00 PM Shootings: 0 Force Response: 92
Source: Internal Source of Complaint

Disposition: In Process
Complaints made by community members and/or police staft

Month/Year: 10/2/2023, 5:00 PM
Source: Internal
Disposition: In Process

< Month/Year: 11/28/2023, 4:00 PM
Source: Internal
Disposition: 4 Violations: All Sustained
Month/Year: 12/14/2023, 4:00 PM
Source: internal
Disposition: |n Progress

Invernal 100%

'l https://experience.arcgis.com/experience/108del 1f8d2a4842934 |adf232606272/page/Dashboards/?views=Officer
-Initiated-Calls

Section 7—Professional Standards Review page 107

ELTYGATE
ee ss oc A eS

118 of 137


--- page 119 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Figure 48—Internal Affairs Data (2022)

Internal Investigations Selectayear | Non» | 2020 | 202) BEREM 2023 | 2028
. . e e
Internal Investigations - Jan 2020 to Mar 2024 Com p la ints: 4
— Total Calls: 63,401 Arrests: 2,245
ee ‘ as pene Shootings: 0 Force Response: 115
Source: Internal Source of Complaint

Disposition: 7 Violations: #s 1, 2, 3: Exonerated; #s 4,5, 6, 7: Unfounded

Month/Year: 5/10/2022, 5:00 PM
Source: Intornal
Disposition: 3 Violations: 1 Unfounded, 2 Sustained

Complaints made by community members and/or police statt

ra Month/Year: 12/20/2022, 4:00 PM >
io ia Gna
Figure 49—Internal Affairs Data (2021)
Internal Investigations Selectayear | None | 2020 QERAIMY 2022 | z0za | 202s
Internal Investigations - Jan 2020 to Mar 2024 Com pla ints: 6
— Total Calls: 59,007 Arrests: 2,252
Disposition; One Violation: SUSTAINED: Shootinas: 0 Force Response: 78

Month/Year: 3/1/2021, 12:00 AM
Pownce: narow Source of Complaint
Disposition: One Violation: NOT SUSTAINED
Complaints made by community members and/or police staft
Month/Year: 5/1/2021, 12:00 AM
Source: internal
Disposition: One Violation: SUSTAINED

Month/Year: 5/25/2021, 100 AM
Source: internal
Disposition: One Violation: SUSTAINED

Month/Year: 7/22/2021, 1:00 AM
Source: internal
Disposition: Violation #1; Unfounded Violation #2: Unfounded

Month/Year: 11/16/2021, 12:00 AM
Source: internal
Disposition: 7 Violations: Sustained; employee dismissed

Tad

internal 100%

7.2 TRAINING

The Training Unit is led by the Services Lieutenant, with day-to-day operations performed by the
Training Sergeant and Training Officer. Training Unit staff manage numerous responsibilities,
including the hiring of new officers and dispatchers, initial and ongoing training processes, and

min

CITYGATE Section 7—Professional Standards Review page 108

119 of 137


--- page 120 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

annual in-service (aka Advanced Officer Training) and Perishable Skills Program (PSP)'? training
to meet POST requirements. The Unit also coordinates internal training by developing and
reviewing course curricula, evaluating instructors to ensure they are qualified for the subject, and
processing course rosters to ensure attendees receive credit for successful completion of the course
and the course appears on the attendees’ POST EDI profile.

7.2.1. Training Officer

The Training Officer has no permanent support staff but can receive assistance from a finance or
administrative assistant. Some daily responsibilities include:

o Collecting receipts and matching them with finance and Workday software

o Working with three different City systems—Workday, METR, and the Finance
Department system, InTime

o Booking travel (flights and hotels)

o Tracking course completion

o Managing certificates

o Facilitating training and reviewing course materials to ensure POST compliance
o Shepherding new hires through the facility

o Issuing equipment

o Managing attendance and coordinating makeup training.

Citygate learned that the Training Officer faces challenges completing tasks and spends an
inordinate amount of time on clerical duties that detract from the ability to manage the necessary
course development and safety protocols required for good risk management. The Training
Officer’s primary responsibilities are obscured by clerical duties such as making PDF attachments,
data entry, maneuvering the three data systems, and the Police Training Hours (PTHRS) system
tracking 78 hours of unaccounted-for time that requires constant attention.

The Unit is also responsible for reimbursement of training expenses when an officer or dispatcher
attends a POST-approved course at an offsite location. There is an additional responsibility to track
the POST-reimbursable training to ensure the Department has been reimbursed a portion of the
training expense by POST. The Training Officer is also called the POST Compliance Officer, with
the responsibility to ensure necessary POST courses are properly certified, and that Department
officers and dispatchers complete the required 24 hours of training in 24 months. Due to the

'? https://post.ca.gov/perishable-skills-program

Section 7—Professional Standards Review page 109 prawen re

120 of 137


--- page 121 ---
ELTYGATE

City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

working relationship with South Bay Regional Public Safety Training Academy,'? some of the
course curricula review, course coordination, and roster processing is removed from the Training
Officer’s daily responsibilities.

In light of the implementation of California SB 2 (effective January 2023), the tracking of training
is critical to ensure good risk management and guarantee staffing—POST can suspend an officer’s
license if minimum training standards are not being maintained and the officer has a sustained
finding in one of the nine Serious Misconduct categories as defined by POST. '*

The Training Officer uses METR!> to track all training and ensure Department and POST
compliance. METR software provides the ability to track inventory issue, training, equipment and
needed re-qualifications, the use of QR Codes to quickly track course attendance, evaluate
instructors, disseminate training videos and policy reviews, and more. In 2024, all training records
should be maintained in digital form.

7.3. COMMUNITY RELATIONS

The Media Unit provides public information and utilizes social media to engage the community.
The Unit also designs graphics for the Department’s image, attends public events, participates in
PAL, and more. The Unit reports to the Training and Backgrounds Sergeant.

fe a O @ .® # © *« & The Unit consists of two full-time staff—
: \ a sworn Media Relations Officer and a
Communications and _— Publications
Analyst (professional staff) who work
together to provide all external messaging
from the Department to the City and the
County. The Officer position rotates every
two to three years. The Communications
and Publications Analyst has 23 years
with the Department and is well-versed in

Intro Posts 25 Fiters

“Apeases oes mene mee asen tact and diplomacy when _ providing
ia iscaimmigceaes fey Sect Aves . information to the community. The
& eos 70 Seco a Analyst also trains the officer position

while he was walking, a male subpatt sepseeried hen on dora ns ce re The

suspect had a pistol in the waistband of his pants. The victim was a... See more when rotations occur.

FD POpio@cityotsanmates.cty

'S https://theacademy.ca.gov/

https://post.ca.gov/Decertification
https://leftasystems.org/products/managing-employee-training-records/

14
15

Section 7—Professional Standards Review page 110

AS sO CIM TES a

121 of 137


--- page 122 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Community Relations includes all community engagement and the neighborhood watch program,
PIO backup, all responses concerning police-related incidents, City events involving the
Department, social media, and other related events such as the POA Crab Feed. The Unit manages
notifying those attending events of active incidents involving road closures and similar
communications.

The Unit also facilitates the presentation of ~  SanMateo Police Department &

4,295 posts

an 1l-week Community Police Academy
program, works on campaigns like call
appreciation week, augments _ traffic
enforcement engagement with safety tips
via social media, and manages press
releases using photos submitted by officers. al jas toe: :
12 members of the Department serve as a Gar = ~ 8
Media Intelligence Team and _ provide .

content to the Unit. The Chief likes to have ae Police Department ©

posts made m real time, SO the Unit Is busy City of San Mateo Police Department - Community Alerts & Updates - NOT for
scripting and editing videos, scripting media reporting crimes or emergencies. To contact us directly: (650)522-7700 or via 911.

sage : soe © San Mateo. CA - SF Bay Area @ cityofsanmateo.orz/index.aspx?ni.,
posts, and assisting with amy CTISIS — & joined janvary 2010

communications (COVID-19, floods, etc.). 167 Following 20.7K Followers

Not followed by anyone you're following

The Unit is actively involved with
promoting public safety messaging and

positive events within the Department. One En San Mateo Police Department @ @S2nMateoPD « 3h
Robbery suspect arrested, For details: !acal.nixic.com/alen /10887207/

Posts Replies Media Likes

such program is Project Guardian, which
protects vulnerable people. It is a free,

voluntary database offered, managed, and VG, ‘oe POLICE DEPARTMENT
maintained by the Department to provide a
quick access to critical information about
registered persons in the event of an
emergency. A caregiver can register a UY, 9 PROTECT WITH HONOR
person who is diagnosed with Alzheimer’s rahe
Disease, Autism Spectrum Disorder, or

developmental or intellectual diseases.

The Unit also gives presentations to seniors and other community groups, facilitates Officer visits
to schools and similar venues, and acts as a tour guide of the Department for community groups.

With the Unit’s responsibility to manage social media posts, messages, and alerts—including to
Facebook, Instagram, the PAL and K9 pages on the Department’s website, X (Twitter), LinkedIn,
YouTube, Nextdoor, and Nixel—the Unit has amassed approximately 169,000 followers across
various platforms.

Section 7—Professional Standards Review page 111 prawen re
OO eee

122 of 137


--- page 123 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

The performance measures for Media Relations, as shown in the following table, reflect a
continued, year-over-year increase in subscribers:

Table 21—Department Media Relations: Subscribers by Fiscal Year

14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 19/20 20/21 21/22 22/23

Subscribers [aRyEeY¥4 37,461 54,285 | 111,780 | 125,415 | 139,498 | 147,876 | 158,259 | 168,882

Due to the fact that the Communications and Publications Analyst does not receive overtime and
works four days a week (Monday through Thursday), coupled with the scheduling of most events
after normal working hours and on weekends, it would be helpful for this position to receive
overtime, adjust the working hours to a swing shift, or augment the Media Relations Unit with
another position. The Chief of Police has many good ideas and wants the Unit to be active. There
is much pressure to “get it right.” Citygate applauds the efforts of the Department to promote
positive activities while informing the community of safety concerns.

7.4 VOLUNTEERS AND STUDENT INTERNS

The City has a volunteer program. Opportunities are posted on the City website and Galaxy
Digital.'° The Facility Coordinator in Support Services also coordinates volunteer recruiting and
coordination in addition to facility repairs and maintenance. However, during the peak of the
COVID-19 pandemic, most of the volunteers who were senior citizens had to suspend their
assistance with Patrol and parking duties typically delegated to volunteers. There were also
volunteers serving at the front counter, but the program has seen long-term staffing issues due to
vacations and retirement living. Some volunteer chaplains are coordinated through the Services
Captain.

While the Department does not have its own formal volunteer program, it does utilize City
volunteers for the neighborhood watch program—with 20 neighborhood watch block captains.
The Unit both sends and receives information to assist neighborhoods with crime reduction. A
nine-member board of directors holds meetings on alternate months to discuss new blocks that
have signed up, promote a block captain recruiting meeting, and organize other community events
for crime prevention.

The Department makes use of student interns. The Department contracts through a school in San
Francisco for women from disadvantaged environments. There are also opportunities for high
school students to use a program where interns can assist with specific skills in spreadsheets or
writing. College students attending a criminal justice program can benefit from volunteering

'6 https://cityofsanmateo.galaxydigital.com/

CITYGATE Section 7—Professional Standards Review page 112

123 of 137


--- page 124 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

during a semester to assist investigators, provide sex registrant files, or perform data entry (interns
do not have direct contact with sex registrants). The Department greatly benefits from the
assistance of student volunteers and interns. The student interns are well-vetted by Department
staff to maintain high standards and security. Citygate learned that approximately 80 percent of
student interns are paid during their time with the Department, while the other 20 percent volunteer
their time.

7.5 BACKGROUNDS

One of four per diem Background Investigators performs background checks. Background
Investigators generally work 20 hours weekly. The Department is modernizing the background
check process by introducing eSOPH Background Software. Existing hardcopy backgrounds will
be scanned into the eSOPH system for future ease of retrieval. Per diem personnel consist of two
retired police Lieutenants and two retired police Sergeants.

Backgrounds are currently performed on all Department staff with varying degrees of depth.
California POST sets background standards for the hiring of officers and dispatchers. However,
the Training and Backgrounds Sergeant informed Citygate that all staff have some level of
background process prior to hirting—from a janitor or volunteer to a dispatcher or officer, they will
minimally receive an interview, Livescan, and application.

Applicants take part in a hiring process that includes various points to ensure the right candidates
progress. To ensure quality candidates proceed through the application process, several steps are
in place to protect both the applicants and the Department.

Dispatcher and officer applicants will complete a 400-question form, then be called into Livescan,
to create an in-depth profile, and then Background Investigators will follow-up. If positive, a
conditional offer interview is made. Kaiser Hospital performs the medical exam, while the
psychological exam is virtual and uses a CORE assessment. The same is true with polygraph
examiners. Both have 24-hour turnaround time. If all steps of the process are passed by a candidate,
the Chief of Police, hiring Captain, Training and Backgrounds Sergeant, and Investigators meet to
review the candidate’s file. If the determination is “positive” after a full review of all of
documentation and background information, a job offer is made to the applicant. Hiring documents
are managed in Dropbox to ease the transition with the applicant. The new employee fills out the
packet and signs forms after Chief of Police makes the job offer. All these actions support City
HR in making the process quicker and easier. The Training and Backgrounds Sergeant then begins
to issue the officer’s (or other position’s) equipment.

In the past, some applicants received a Livescan, partial background process, and full process.
New, proposed processes for vetting applicants will involve tiers of backgrounds. The Department
will be managing the process for police explorers, janitors, crime scene investigators, and
professional staff, and is developing a policy to provide clarity. Additionally, the Training and

Section 7—Professional Standards Review page 113 prawe a re
ee VATE s

124 of 137


--- page 125 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Background Sergeant is developing an electronic desk manual to document activities and
processes and provide clarity and ease of transition for the next Training and Backgrounds
Sergeant. All new applicants will be processed through eSOPH. Citygate applauds the diligent
efforts and forward-thinking leadership of the Training and Backgrounds Sergeant in making use
of a digital background application like eSOPH and developing a desk manual for succession
planning.

7.6 FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

7.6.1 Findings

Finding #31: Due to the ancillary responsibilities of the IA Unit, and in keeping with the
contemporary leadership of a Professional Standards Unit, a per diem Sergeant does
not provide the Department with an adequate level of risk management.

Finding #32: The Department tracks IA cases and case management manually, taking time from
staff when research is required.

Finding #33: The Training Officer / POST Compliance Officer is performing numerous duties
that are outside the position’s scope of work and which keep The Training Officer
out of the classroom and unable to audit courses.

Finding #34: The existing METR software application potential is not being fully utilized, so
quarterly reporting regarding training missed by personnel is absent from
management team meetings.

Finding #35: The Communications and Publications Analyst is assigned to a weekday schedule,
yet many events occur outside of regular business hours.

Finding #36: The Support Services Division has three primary functions (Investigations,
IA/Training, and PAL/YSU), each of which have been tasked with numerous
ancillary duties over the years, leading to an unclear, “clouded” mission for each.

7.6.2 Recommendations

Recommendation #30: With the difficulties facing law enforcement, coupled with the elevated
risks associated with civil and criminal prosecutions, the Department
should consider elevating the retired annuitant (part-time) position to
full-time when the current investigator retires. During the past three
years (2023, 2022, and 2021) respectively, only five, four, and six
complaints were formally investigated. There are other demands on risk
management, including internal and external complaints, compliance,

CITYGATE Section 7—Professional Standards Review page 114

125 of 137


--- page 126 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

IA investigations, CPRAs, BWC, policy and procedure updates, claims,
SB 2 POST license reporting, and more.

Recommendation #31: Consideration should be given to providing the Training Officer with a
permanent clerical support position (Administrative Technician) to
process rosters, travel reimbursements, receipt collection, certificate
tracking, and other data entry tasks.

Recommendation #32: The Department should make productive use of METR’s reporting
capability and provide monthly or quarterly updates at management
team meetings to track compliance with training requirements.

Recommendation #33: Consideration should be given to the schedule and workload of the
Communications and Publications Analyst. Due to the nature of the
position requiring working events on weekends and evenings on
occasion, it would be helpful for this position to either receive overtime
as an option, change the schedule to accommodate a swing shift, or add
a support position to the Media Relations Unit.

Section 7—Professional Standards Review page 115

ELETYGQATE
ee ss oc A eS

126 of 137


--- page 127 ---
127 of 137

--- page 128 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

SECTION 8—SUMMARY OF PERSONNEL PRIORITIES AND FINDINGS
AND RECOMMENDATIONS

8.1 PERSONNEL RECOMMENDATIONS AND PRIORITIES

The following table compares the total number of FTE positions the Department is currently
authorized and/or funded for with the current vacancy status and the total recommended net new
positions identified and recommended by Citygate in this report.

Section 8—Summary of Personnel Priorities and Findings and Recommendations page 117

ELTYGATE

ass oe (Ree Ss

128 of 137


--- page 129 ---
Saev)2xoese

SLL ebed suonepuawwosey pue sbulpul4 pue sanuolg jaUUOSJag Jo ArewUUNg—g UoNoag 7 * ug os

GZ°SSL
(uonjisod mau) uelsiuyse | dIsuaI04
(uoijisod mou) TW —1e6euey uelpAlg
yshjeuy swia}sAs sseulsng Joluag
II ys11e!9edg spso99y
Joluas = }sIje1I99dg spi000y
JosiAjadng Apiadoid 10 spiozay 991|0d
JOJeI1}SIUIWIPY SEd1AJag Jed1UYydI] Bd1|0d
Wi ysAjeuy uowabeuey
Jo}JeUIPAOND saljpI9e4
yuejsissy aAIndexy
ysAjeuy aouapiag
II 40yo}eds1q
JosiAjadns yojedsiq
ysipeisedg o1suaio04 jey!big
ysAjeuy souabij9}Uu] pue swD
(OSD) 4291YO adIAJag AlunWWwOoD

JOIUDS = 1991JJO BdIAIag AjtunWWOD

yshjeuy Suonejoy d1qQng pue SuoHesUNWWOD

saBeuey sseuisng

yoo) eAje.jsiujwpy

jue}sissy aAljeJ}SIUIWIpYy

(OVAY) 49910 JUOWA}eqy BJ91YeA pouopueqy

4991JJO Bd1]0d

a a a ee eee eee BoHiod 40 Je149

SUuOl}epusWIWIOIEy ayeBAyID (poqerniep orem
Jay sniding Aq 93219q/PPV 1 fouesen yuaung pails Aung pepun4/pezvou}ny
Jo Aoueoe, JON Ppepuswuwosey uol}yIsOd

japun4/pezuoujny
papuswwosay |e}o |

Jeuuosied (3.4) }UaTeAINby owl | -|jn4 oa}eyy ues

Xopuy sUjejsy Jo}suy, -AJUUMUINGS UOISOg—ce 1481,

juaujedeg eoljod au} Jo siskjeuy yeuoneziuebic pue juawssessy speon Bujeys
VO ‘oaze ues Jo AID

129 of 137


--- page 130 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

The following table details Citygate’s recommendations pertaining to the addition of FTE
personnel including a funding priority level. The number of personnel per position is provided in
parentheses.

Table 23—Summary of Personnel Recommendations and Funding Priorit

Source wg: Funding Funding
Rec. # AU Positel Priority 1 Priority 2

Ft [Paice once (Para) XM
2 [Pots oncers Paro) ———SSSCS~=~—*~‘iCSY
2 | Gommuniy sevice fear) «tx |
(2 [uewenans Paro) ———SS—~id
49 | Adminsraive assistant Spon Sences) | x |_|
[16 | cme Scone Soecaist nvestoaionsy [| XA
19 | civian anagerPosion (Pal) Sid |
[20 | Seno Resouree Oncor SU) Sid |
[29 | Property ane Evidence Specs fume) || _XC8) |
24 [Aaminsraive Tactician Crain) [| x)
Tota Recommended Personalby Prony | 8 __| 105

[ss

Total Recommended Personnel

8.2 FINDINGS

The following is a comprehensive list of all findings contained within this report,
organized by section.

Citygate’s findings speak to defining elements of San Mateo’s particular context and
situation and provide a basis for Citygate’s recommendations.

Field Operations Services

Finding #1: Patrol staffing has experienced many vacancies, forcing each team to be staffed
with as few as 21 officers before any leave use is applied (29 authorized).

Finding #2: Minimum staffing is attained by hour, not by shift; this creates a complicated,
rules-based staffing model that is very difficult to manage, especially when staffing
is low.

Section 8—Summary of Personnel Priorities and Findings and Recommendations page 119

ELETYGQATE
ee ss oc A eS

130 of 137


--- page 131 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Finding #3:

Finding #4:

Finding #5:

Finding #6:

Finding #7:

Finding #8:

Finding #9:

Finding #10:

GEEYRQARDE

Operating shifts at minimum strength does not allow for organizational goals or
directed service and significantly reduces proactive policing, especially during
peak hours of the day when committed time and saturation is high.

The City does not currently have a uniformed unit that is dedicated to addressing
identified problems or quality-of-life issues. To focus on specific needs related to
community safety requires dedicated resources and flexible schedules, but the
City’s Patrol officers do not have the time to address these significant challenges
impacting the community.

Using the ICMA Rule of 60 as it pertains to resource allocation, it is Citygate’s
experience that the average department assigns approximately 66 percent of its
officers to Patrol. At full strength, San Mateo achieves the 60 percent goal, with
60 percent of its officers assigned to Patrol.

Watch 1 has a workload level requiring an increase in the minimum staffing level
by 1 officer per team. According to the ICMA Rule of 60 as it pertains to workload
efficiency, the average workload of Patrol officers should not exceed 60 percent.
Patrol officers in the City are committed 55 percent of the time on average.
However, when evaluating utilization averaged by hour within each day, officer
utilization is negatively impacted between 7:00 am and 10:00 am and not meeting
the ICMA guideline. Additionally, utilization stays elevated above 60 percent until
3:00 pm.

In the absence of a Watch 2 supervisor, the Watch | (day shift) supervisor may be
responsible for supervising both shifts with a combined minimum staffing level of
9 officers (up to 13 officers if fully staffed).

Whether coinciding with a shift in policing priorities, the COVID-19 pandemic, or
the scrutiny of the law enforcement profession nationally, the City has experienced
a six-year 14 percent decline in total incidents requiring a Patrol response.

The current Patrol schedule does not factor time to perform ancillary duties, which
are different than administrative tasks and must be performed while on-duty.
Additionally, the rotating 4/11 schedule does not overlap teams and requires
making up 77 hours each year.

In the fractile analysis of Patrol response times, 9 times out of 10, it takes 1:00
minute or less of call-handling time to dispatch a police unit to a Priority 1 call,
with the response time for the first-arriving unit being 13:30 minutes or less, 90
percent of the time.

Section 8—Summary of Personnel Priorities and Findings and Recommendations page 120

Assoc tar ES a

131 of 137


--- page 132 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Finding #11: Unfilled positions due to injuries or vacancies have a significant impact on the
Department’s ability to properly deliver Patrol services. The Department cannot
absorb these impacts as there are no reserve or buffer positions allocated to Patrol.

Finding #12: Community Service Officers (CSOs) play an invaluable supportive and cost-
effective role in Patrol and in Traffic. However, their schedule is limited to specific
hours/days and not data driven.

Finding #13: The Department allows for the approval of comp time use when it brings minimum
staffing to no more than one officer below minimum. This can be challenging for
scheduling purposes as it negatively impacts the Department’s ability to deliver
appropriate police services to the community and causes officer fatigue.

Finding #14: Each team has overlapping shifts except Watch 4 to Watch | at 6:30 am. Call
analysis highlights this impact, which supports adjusting Watch times to ensure all
shifts have an overlap when adequately staffed.

Finding #15: Watch 4 minimum staffing levels are insufficient for the size of the City. Workload
analysis should not be the sole basis for deploying less than six officers during
overnight hours.

Finding #16: The Downtown Unit is managed by a Lieutenant but does not have a dedicated
supervisor as officers are assigned and deployed on Patrol shifts.

Finding #17: The two current Patrol Team Lieutenants do not have enough time to effectively
manage administrative duties while supervising Patrol operations.

Finding #18: The Traffic Unit is supervised by two Sergeants, with many assignments that often
extend beyond the regular duties of traffic safety.

Finding #19: Extending Traffic CSO resources throughout the week would improve response
and reduce the impact of Traffic calls for service with the addition of 1 FTE Traffic
CSO position. This would also reduce the workload on existing Traffic officers to
perform proactive enforcement and education.

Finding #20: Multiple adjustments to minimum staffing levels since 2016 have represented an
attempt to use data to inform and drive Patrol staffing decisions. However, the
continuous change in minimum staffing is primarily driven by the lack of
deployable officers in Patrol.

Finding #21: The policy allowing for the approval of compensatory time use when it brings

minimum staffing to no more than one officer below minimum is unsustainable,

Section 8—Summary of Personnel Priorities and Findings and Recommendations page 121

ELETYGQATE
ee ss oc A eS

132 of 137


--- page 133 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

causing officer fatigue and negatively impacting the Department’s ability to deliver
appropriate police services to the community.

Support Services / Investigations

Finding #22:

Finding #23:

Finding #24:

Finding #25:

Finding #26:

Finding #27:

The Captain and Lieutenants are performing office administrative tasks and
assignments related to Support Services / Investigations. Such administrative duties
would be better aligned with a clerical support position.

Detectives tend to be promoted out of the Unit prior to their full rotation. Thus, the
experience level of the detectives (with the exception of the Senior Detective) is
low.

Due to workload capacity, the Detective Unit investigates few (if any) property
crimes.

All 8 detectives, plus the 2 detective Sergeants, are assigned generally to
Investigations. There are no specialized investigative units.

The CSO assigned to Investigations is often called out to process crime scenes and
collect evidence and search warrants, a specialized skillset typically beyond that of
a CSO.

Domesticating search warrants for allied police agencies seeking subscriber
information from Life360 has a moderate to significant impact on the workload of
the Investigations Unit.

Business Management

Finding #28:

There is no repository for contracts and grants, and the Department is currently
utilizing a manual process for record-keeping.

Police Technical Services

Finding #29:

Finding #30:

GEEYRQARDE

ass O14 # TES

The Property and Evidence Unit is short-staffed, which creates a continual backlog
of booking, processing, and purging property. The Unit needs security upgrades
including an intrusion alarm system and video camera coverage of the entrance,
exit, and storage areas.

Under the current staffing model, there is insufficient staff to perform all of the
responsibilities of the Property and Evidence Unit.

Section 8—Summary of Personnel Priorities and Findings and Recommendations page 122

133 of 137


--- page 134 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

Professional Standards

Finding #31:

Finding #32:

Finding #33:

Finding #34:

Finding #35:

Finding #36:

Due to the ancillary responsibilities of the IA Unit, and in keeping with the
contemporary leadership of a Professional Standards Unit, a per diem Sergeant does
not provide the Department with an adequate level of risk management.

The Department tracks IA cases and case management manually, taking time from
staff when research is required.

The Training Officer / POST Compliance Officer is performing numerous duties
that are outside the position’s scope of work and which keep The Training Officer
out of the classroom and unable to audit courses.

The existing METR software application potential is not being fully utilized, so
quarterly reporting regarding training missed by personnel is absent from
management team meetings.

The Communications and Publications Analyst is assigned to a weekday schedule,
yet many events occur outside of regular business hours.

The Support Services Division has three primary functions (Investigations,
IA/Training, and PAL/YSU), each of which have been tasked with numerous
ancillary duties over the years, leading to an unclear, “clouded” mission for each.

8.3 RECOMMENDATIONS

The following is a comprehensive list of all recommendations contained within this

report, organized by section. Throughout this assessment, Citygate’s recommendations
across six themes will serve the Department in its effort to achieve the following goals:

1. Update organizational structures to maximize effectiveness.

2. Improve public and officer safety through increased supervisory oversight.

3. Increase capacity in Patrol services, particularly during peak hours, to reduce
response times and allow more time for officer-initiated proactive policing,
community engagement, and investigative follow-up.

4. Increase training to ensure compliance with the latest regulations and standards for
safe, fair policing.

5. Improve the type and volume of formal community engagement.

Section 8—Summary of Personnel Priorities and Findings and Recommendations page 123

134 of 137

CITYGATE


--- page 135 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department

6. Project future needs based on current capabilities, call volumes, trends, staffing
levels, population growth, service level expectations, and demand for future
expansion of service delivery and personnel.

Field Operations Services

Recommendation #1: — Fully staff Patrol to its authorized complement of police officers (58).
Fund 4 new FTE officer positions to provide a buffer in Patrol (one
additional officer for every two shifts), reduce the continuous impact of
staffing shortages, and backfill for long-term injury and vacancies that
reduce operational positions that are often funded using overtime.

Recommendation #2: Add 2 FTE officers to Patrol and assign one per each day shift on Team
A and Team B to ensure Patrol officer committed time is no more than
60 percent and provide increased services during elevated daytime
demand beginning at 7:00 am.

Recommendation #3: Secure ongoing funding for the recently added, grant-funded CSO.
Deploy with the existing 3 CSOs to Watch | and Watch 2 (on both
teams). This would ensure Patrol officer committed time is no more than
60 percent and provide increased services during elevated daytime
demand for service in the community.

Recommendation #4: Increase the minimum number of deployed Patrol staff on Watch 4 to
no less than 6 Patrol officers from 2:00 am until the end of the shift once
Patrol staffing positions are added.

Recommendation #5: Increase the minimum number of deployed Patrol staff at the start of
Watch 1 to no less than 6 Patrol officers once Patrol staffing positions
are added.

Recommendation #6: Restructure the Traffic Unit, utilizing 1 of the 2 current Traffic
Sergeants to provide full management of supervisory responsibilities for
the Unit.

Recommendation #7: _Reallocate | of 2 Traffic Sergeant positions to a newly formalized and
dedicated Downtown Unit / Problem-Oriented Policing team to address
downtown response, quality-of-life issues, homelessness, business
needs, events, and community engagement. Organize such programs
and services under a newly formed Community Engagement Unit that
could be supervised with the Traffic Sergeant’s reallocation without the

CITYGaTeE section 8—Summary of Personnel Priorities and Findings and Recommendations page 124
fade Blew Ree ee ee Te

135 of 137


--- page 136 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

addition of anew FTE. A Community Engagement Unit would augment
overall Patrol response by engaging businesses and neighborhoods
directly and addressing problems that significantly impact the greater
community.

Recommendation #8: Add 1 FTE CSO to Traffic and deploy with the existing Traffic CSO
to extend weekly coverage and support to assist Motor Officers in more
effectively performing traffic enforcement and collision investigations.

Recommendation #9: In light of the increased risk and liability in policing today, the
Department should consider the future potential of adding 2
Lieutenants to Patrol and deploying Patrol Lieutenants as Watch
Commanders to ensure greater management oversight and further
balance Lieutenant workload.

Recommendation #10: Evaluate the current, rotating 4/11 shift schedule in partnership with
affected labor groups to determine whether an alternative, compressed
work schedule could provide evidence-based benefits to the Department
and community and also address training issues, ancillary assignment
challenges, officer fatigue, and overtime use.

Recommendation #11: The Department should manage minimum staffing by shift(s) versus by
hour(s) of day, reducing the impact of the current per-hour scheduling
challenges. This recommendation should be implemented in partnership
with affected labor groups.

Recommendation #12: The Department should consider a management-level “reasonable
accommodation” approach to scheduling that does not automatically
approve leave use when it brings staffing levels below minimum. This
recommendation should be implemented in partnership with affected
labor groups.

Support Services / Investigations

Recommendation #13: Consider the addition of 1 full-time Administrative Assistant to the
Support Services / Investigations Division. This would enable the
Captain and Lieutenants to manage their time more efficiently,
providing greater capacity for priorities which only they can manage.

Section 8—Summary of Personnel Priorities and Findings and Recommendations page 125

ELETYGQATE
ee ss oc A eS

136 of 137


--- page 137 ---
City of San Mateo, CA

Staffing Needs Assessment and Organizational Analysis of the Police Department
ee ee

Recommendation #14: Once workload indicators are properly assessed and subjective analysis
is validated, consider adding 1 full-time detective to the Investigations
Bureau.

Recommendation #15: Consider alternatives to leverage institutional knowledge developed by
detectives by either adding an additional “Senior” detective position or
extending current detective rotations by an additional two years,
provided performance objectives are being met.

Recommendation #16: Add 1 Crime Scene Specialist as a new position of to be permanently
assigned to Investigations and conduct crime scene investigations and
evidence gathering. This position could also assist with digital forensic
analysis.

Recommendation #17: The Department should consider the future potential of converting the
4 retired annuitant positions to 2 full-time detective positions once
current funding for the retired annuitant positions has expired.

Recommendation #18: Consider reorganizing the Investigations Bureau into two specialized
units including a Special Victim’s Unit (SVU) and a Major Crimes Unit.
The SVU would handle all domestic violence cases, sex cases, child and
elder abuse cases, and missing persons cases. The Major Crimes Unit
would be divided into a Violent Crimes Unit and a Property Crimes
Unit. [Note: Prior to the completion of this report, the Department had
already implemented this recommendation with a reorganization of the
Bureau into Major Crimes and General Felony units.] The following
figure reflects Citygate’s proposed reorganization:

Figure 50—Investigations Bureau — Proposed Reorganization

Investigations
Services
Lieutenant

Special Investigations : . .
Unit Major Crimes Unit Task Force Officers (3)
(Sergeant) (Sergeant)

Digital Forensic

Specialist (.5) Digital Forensic

; Specialist (.5)
Crime Scene Crime Scene Specialist
(.5)

Specialist (.5)

Violent Crimes Property Crimes

Detectives (4) Senior Detectives (2) Detectives (3)

CITYGATE 3ection 8—Summary of Personnel Priorities and Findings and Recommendations page 126
fda Gee's <a

137 of 137
