source: packet.pdf
sha256: cf9325df8de5b54813b362f1fa4ddb127b9c513eb4dbaae37a82204552c955a1
pages: 31
ocr_pages: 1
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
June 17, 2024
5:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber 330 W.
20th Avenue San Mateo CA 94403
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Lisa Diaz Nash, Mayor
Rob Newsom Jr., Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Amourence Lee
Adam Loraine
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: June 17, 2024
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 868 3823 0799      Passcode: 777362
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the consideration of this item. Following the meeting a report of action from
Closed Session will be provided if required.
1.
Conference with Labor Negotiators (Government Code Section 54957.6)
City designated representatives: Yumi Maeda, Karen Huang, Abby Veeser and Stacey Cue.
Employee Organizations: Police Sergeants’ Association, San Mateo City Employees Association, SEIU Maintenance
and SEIU Non-Merit Part-Time
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of this item.
2.
Historic Policy Workplan and Timelines – Overview and Council Direction
Receive a presentation from staff on historic policy workplan options and provide staff with direction on how this
work should be prioritized.
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
1 of 31

--- page 2 ---
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 31

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 25-3112
File ID: 24-8766
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
June 17, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Historic Policy Workplan and Timelines – Overview and Council Direction
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a presentation from staff on historic policy workplan options and provide staff with direction on how this work 
should be prioritized.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo’s General Plan 2040, adopted by the City Council on March 18, 2024, sets the policy framework for 
how issues such as historic resources and preservation should be addressed.  The Community Design and Historic 
Resources Element addresses the topic of historic and cultural resources, and includes goals, policies, and actions that 
outline the framework for how the City should approach historic preservation. Specifically, Goal CD-5 speaks to preserving 
the historic and culturally important resources to maintain San Mateo’s special identity and continuity with the past and 
includes seven policies and six actions to support achievement of this goal (Attachment 1).
During the adoption process for General Plan 2040, the topic of historic resource preservation generated significant 
community interest and comments; with the historic related policies and actions based around this community input and 
the final versions based on Council direction.  In addition, this past fall, a historic district designation application for the 
Baywood Neighborhood was submitted to the State Office of Historic Preservation by the San Mateo Heritage Alliance.  
This application resulted in significant community discussions surrounding establishing historic districts, how the 
designations are approved at the State and local levels, and questions about the potential impacts of an application and a 
subsequent designation on properties within the district. To address questions about the State and local historic review 
processes and how historic districts are established, Planning Division staff, with support from historic consultant 
Architectural Resources Group (ARG), conducted a community informational meeting in February 2024, and also updated 
its website to provide FAQs related to the historic district designation process, the City’s permitting process for potential 
historic resources, and how the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) addresses historic resources. The City’s 
Historic Resources webpage can be viewed here.  
Once the General Plan was formally adopted in March 2024, the City Council directed the City Manager under Reports and 
Announcements at their meeting on April 1, 2024 to agendize a future Study Session on what it would take to update the 
City’s local Historic Resources Program pursuant to the actions in the General Plan’s Historic Resources Element. 
DISCUSSION:
As outlined in the General Plan, the City’s Historic Preservation Ordinance (San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.66) 
needs to be updated to create a complete framework for the designation of historic resources and districts; establish 
review and permitting procedures for historic alterations, demolitions or relocations; be consistent with federal and State 
standards and guidelines; and align with the other goals and policies outlined in the Community Design and Historic 
3 of 31

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Resources Element (Action CD 5.8).  In addition, to support a consistent and equitable approach to how historic resources 
are assessed and evaluated, preparation of a citywide historic context statement is needed to guide future historic policy 
decisions and survey efforts to identify individually eligible resources and districts (Action CD 5.9).  Both of these actions 
were developed based on historic consultant guidance, community input, and City Council direction, and are included in 
Attachment 1. Based on these identified actions, staff is seeking input from Council on how the implementation of these 
actions should be prioritized and what level of staff and monetary resources should be invested to complete the work.  
Below are three potential options for how to proceed with this historic policy work at this time. 
Option 1: Prioritize Implementation of Actions CD 5.8 and CD 5.9
General Plan 2040 Action CD 5.8 outlines the parameters for updating the City’s Historic Preservation Ordinance to be 
more comprehensive, including creating a framework for the designation of historic resources and districts; establishing 
review and permitting procedures for historic alterations, demolitions or relocations; ensuring consistency with federal 
and State standards and guidelines, and alignment with the other goals and policies outlined in this Community Design and 
Historic Resources Element. Action CD 5.9 outlines the parameters for preparation of a citywide historic context statement 
to guide future historic resource survey efforts to identify individually eligible resources and historic districts. Both of these 
actions have been identified as the appropriate next steps to updating the City’s historic preservation policies, creating 
clear and comprehensive processes for historic designations and to establish a consistent approach for surveying and 
identifying eligible historic resources. 
Implementation of these actions would constitute a significant policy initiative and require meaningful staff resources from 
the Community Development Department, City Attorney’s Office, and City Manager’s Office. The initiative would include 
public outreach and engagement, including community meetings and public hearings, retention of a qualified historic 
consultant (including an RFP), code amendments to update the Historic Preservation Ordinance, updated historic policy to 
adopt the context statement, and preparation of associated internal processes and documentation to implement this new 
code and policy. Staff anticipates that completing this work could require 12+ months, and could cost around $500,000 
(consultant, staff and other associated costs). 
Option 2: Update Internal Historic Review Processes without Code Amendments
An alternative to full implementation of both Actions would be to work within the currently adopted ordinance and 
policies to strengthen and fully develop the City’s historic review processes.  This would include developing historical 
resource screening criteria, developing a process for historic resource designation based on the current Historic 
Preservation Ordinance as well as State/Federal practices, establishing best practices for preservation and maintenance, 
building out the website with more historic information and resources to facilitate public awareness, and developing other 
tools to support clear understanding of requirements for projects associated with designated and eligible historic 
resources.
This effort would include the retention of a qualified historic consultant to support staff in preparation and development 
of this work and would be considered moderately resource intensive from a staffing perspective, with primary staff 
support coming from the Community Development Department. This work could be completed within 6-9 months and is 
estimated to cost around $100,000. Once the work was completed, an informational community meeting would be 
scheduled to present the updated information and historic review processes to the community, and answer questions.
Under this option, Actions CD 5.8 and CD 5.9 would remain with a short-term priority in the General Plan Implementation 
Plan, and would be completed when directed by City Council.
Option 3: Maintain Current Prioritization for Actions CD 5.8 and CD 5.9
Work to implement Actions CD 5.8 and CD 5.9 is identified as a short-term priority in the General Plan Implementation 
Plan, which means that it is anticipated to be completed within the next five years, with the exact timing in this range 
dependent on City Council prioritization. Under this option, staff would continue to do routine work to maintain and 
update City handouts, website resources, and other processes to support historic project reviews and public 
understanding of the subject, but would not dedicate additional staff resources to updating the Historic Preservation 
Ordinance, developing a historic context statement, or augmenting historic policies and processes until the work was 
4 of 31

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
prioritized and funded.
City Council Input and Direction
Given the information provided in this report and presentation, staff seeks direction on which option the Council would like 
to proceed with? 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are no budget impacts associated with receiving this report. Depending on the direction provided by City Council, 
there will be additional budgetary costs associated with implementation of the historic policy work plan.  Based on the 
nature of this historic policy work, it is anticipated that funding would come from the City’s Advanced Planning Fund.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – General Plan 2040 – Historic Resource Policies and Actions
STAFF CONTACT
Zachary Dahl, Director
zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7207
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager
msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org 
650-522-7203
5 of 31

--- page 6 ---
GOALS, POLICIES, AND ACTIONS
GOAL CD-5	 Preserve historic and culturally important resources to maintain San Mateo’s 
special identity and continuity with the past. 
POLICIES
Policy CD 5.1	
Comprehensive Approach to Historic Preservation. Implement a comprehensive 
approach to historic preservation based on community input and best practices from 
State and federal agencies, to find an appropriate balance between preservation with 
other important priorities, such as affordable housing production and supporting local 
businesses. 
Policy CD 5.2	
Historic Preservation. Actively identify and preserve historic resources and concentrations 
of historic resources which convey the flavor of local historical periods, are culturally 
significant, or provide an atmosphere of exceptional architectural interest or integrity, 
as feasible, when they meet national, State, or local criteria. Historic resources include 
individual properties, districts, and sites that maintain San Mateo’s sense of place and 
special identity, and enrich our understanding of the city’s history and continuity with the 
past. 
Policy CD 5.3	
Historic Resources Definition. Define historic resources as buildings, structures, sites, and 
districts that are listed in or determined to be eligible for listing in the National Register 
of Historic Places and/or California Register of Historical Resources, designated resources 
in the 1989 Historic Building Survey Report, and resources found to be eligible through 
documentation in a historic resources report. 
Policy CD 5.4	
Public Awareness. Foster public awareness and appreciation of the City’s historic resources 
and educate the community about how to preserve and improve these resources. Increase 
public appreciation by supporting groups and organizations that provide neighborhood 
workshops, public presentations, interpretive signage, and walking tours. 
Policy CD 5.5	
Historic Resources Renovation and Rehabilitation. Promote the renovation and 
rehabilitation of historic resources that conforms to the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards 
for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Structures and the California 
Historical Building Code and prioritize historic structures for available rehabilitation funds.
Policy CD 5.6	
Historic Preservation Funding. Pursue and promote historic preservation funding sources 
to incentivize the protection of historic resources, such as the California Mills Act Property 
Tax Abatement Program, Federal and State Historic Preservation Tax Incentives Program, 
and State Historic Rehabilitation Tax Credit Program. 
115
Strive San Mateo      General Plan 2040
Chapter 5 
Community Design and Historic Resources Element
6 of 31

--- page 7 ---
Policy CD 5.7	
Demolition Alternatives. Require an applicant to submit alternatives to preserve a historic 
resource as part of any planning application that proposes full demolition. Implement 
preservation methods unless health and safety requirements cannot be met or the City 
Council makes a finding explaining the specific reasons why the social, economic, legal, 
technical, or other beneficial aspects of the proposed demolition outweigh the unavoidable 
adverse impacts to the historic resource. If a designated historic resource cannot be 
preserved, require City approval before the demolition of a historic resource. 
ACTIONS 
Action CD 5.8	 Historic Preservation Ordinance. Update the City’s Historic Preservation Ordinance to 
create a framework for the designation of historic resources and districts, establish review 
and permitting procedures for historic alterations, demolitions or relocations, be consistent 
with federal and State standards and guidelines, and align with the other goals and policies 
outlined in this Element. 
Action CD 5.9	 Historic Resources Context Statements. Prepare a citywide historic context statement 
to guide future historic resource survey efforts to identify individually eligible resources 
and historic districts. If a neighborhood is identified as a historic district, prepare a more 
detailed historic context statement for that individual neighborhood. 
Action CD 5.10	 Historic Resources Survey. Establish and maintain an inventory of architecturally, culturally, 
and historically significant buildings, structures, sites, and districts. Proactively maintain 
an up-to-date historic resources inventory by seeking funding opportunities to update 
the historic survey. Prepare neighborhood-specific historic context statements prior to 
updating the historic resources survey. 
Action CD 5.11	 Preservation Incentives. Explore the option to create incentives to preserve historic and 
cultural resources, such as reducing parking and other prescriptive requirements, allowing 
adaptive reuse, or establishing a transfer of development rights program. 
Action CD 5.12	 Historic Resources Design Standards. Create objective design standards for alterations to 
historic resources and contributors to a designated historic district, and new development 
adjacent to historic resources within historic districts. Use the Secretary of the Interior’s 
Standards as the basis for these objective design standards to ensure projects have a 
contextual relationship with land uses and patterns; spatial organization; visual relationships; 
cultural and historic values; and the height, massing, design, and materials of historic 
resources. 
Action CD 5.13	 Certified Local Government. Explore the feasibility of becoming a Certified Local 
Government (CLG) to become eligible for federal grant funds and technical assistance in 
support of historic resource preservation efforts.
116
Strive San Mateo      General Plan 2040
Chapter 5
Community Design and Historic Resources Element
7 of 31

--- page 8 ---
From:
weller323
To:
Clerk; City Council (San Mateo); Zachary Dahl
Cc:
Nancy Weller; Nancy Weller; Stephen Weller
Subject:
Historic Policy Workplan and Timeline
Date:
Monday, June 17, 2024 11:19:53 AM
I urge the City Council to adopt Option 1 in order to give clarity and a workable City-
wide plan for neighborhoods interested in reasonable historic preservation.  
San Mateo's ordinance on historic preservation has not been updated in 30 years.
 Now is the time to act.  With ongoing pressure from Sacramento and developers  to
build higher density,  many neighborhoods see the need for a unified approach to
protecting our historic architecture.  
Options 2 and 3 do not fully address the needs of future historic considerations.
 Please do not delay----vote for Option 1.  Option 1 will be a positive contribution to
San Mateo's character as a guideline for both preservation and growth.
Sincerely,
Nancy Weller
8 of 31

--- page 9 ---
From:
Rita Armstrong
To:
Clerk; citycouncil@sanmateocitycouncil.org; Zachary Dahl
Subject:
Historic Preservation Ordinance
Date:
Monday, June 17, 2024 8:58:47 AM
Hello Mayor Diaz Nash and City Council Members,
Thank you for the opportunity to share my thoughts on the Historic Preservation Ordinance.
I strongly support Option 1, Prioritize Implementation of Actions CD 5.8 and CD 5.9, where
adequate focus will be given to address historic preservation City-wide and give
neighborhoods a template from which they can work.
In my opinion, Options 2 and 3 do not go far enough to unify the community, and the
fractured environment we are currently experiencing will continue, and I’m pretty sure no
one wants that.
Proceeding with Option 1, the City will truly lead this effort and make a positive impact on
everyone in the city. You already have awareness of the importance of historic preservation
in every San Mateo neighborhood, so now is the time to harness that support and interest
in updating the ordinance.
Thank you.
-------------------------------
Rita Armstrong
9 of 31

--- page 10 ---
From:
Jennifer Bock
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Clerk; Zachary Dahl
Subject:
Historic Preservation Ordinance discussion tonight
Date:
Monday, June 17, 2024 5:57:42 AM
Hello Mayor Diaz Nash and City Council Members,
Thank you for the opportunity to share my thoughts on the Historic Preservation
Ordinance.
I strongly support Option 1, Prioritize Implementation of Actions CD 5.8 and CD 5.9,
where adequate focus will be given to address historic preservation City-wide and
give neighborhoods a template from which they can work.
In my opinion, Options 2 and 3 do not go far enough to unify the community, and
the undesirable fractured environment we are currently experiencing will continue,
Proceeding with Option 1, the City will truly lead this effort and make a positive
impact on everyone in the city. You already have awareness of the importance of
historic preservation in every San Mateo neighborhood, so now is the time to
harness that support and interest in updating the ordinance.
Thank you,
Jennifer Bock Hughes
10 of 31

--- page 11 ---
From:
jeanne bosschart
To:
Clerk
Subject:
City Plan for Historic Preservation
Date:
Sunday, June 16, 2024 1:20:37 PM
I strongly support Option 1 and implementing Actions CD 5.8 and 5.9. The city needs to provide a framework for
city wide historic preservation.
Jeanne Bosschart
350 Fairfax Avenue
San Mateo
Sent from my iPad
11 of 31

--- page 12 ---
From:
Martin McTaggart
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Zachary Dahl
Subject:
FW: Support Option # 1 for current and long term value for all citizens in City and County of San Mateo!
Date:
Monday, June 17, 2024 9:59:00 AM
Attachments:
image001.png
image002.png
image003.png
image004.png
image005.png
image006.png
image007.png
 
 
Best wishes,
Martin
 
Martin McTaggart
City Clerk | City Clerk’s Department
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7042 | mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
 
 
 
 
 
 
From: Caroline Brownstone 
 
Sent: Sunday, June 16, 2024 2:16 PM
To: Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Support Option # 1 for current and long term value for all citizens in City and County of San
Mateo!
 
Thank you for long term value of our community!    
 
Caroline Brownstone 
 
Get Outlook for iOS
12 of 31

--- page 13 ---
From:
Frank Elliott
To:
Clerk; Alex Khojikian; Lisa Diaz Nash; Amourence Lee; Adam Loraine; Richard Hedges; Rob Newsom
Subject:
Comment Study Session Historic Workplan - 34 Signatures
Date:
Monday, June 17, 2024 9:26:01 AM
Attachments:
image.png
Historic Policy Workplan17th - LESS RED TAPE .pdf
Regarding the Historic Policy Work Plan and Timelines, for discussion June 17th, 34 supporters agreed to share their
names in support of the attached document, which in essence states:
I believe it's financially irresponsible for the City to invest time and money in updating the local historic
designation process without a guarantee the updated process won't be bypassed.
All of the signatories have been confirmed by Anna Kurhe or me.  We hope you appreciate receiving one combined
email, rather than 34 separate emails.  Our names appear below, and on the attached document.
We appreciate that the City Council has agreed to take up this topic and will hopefully find a path forward that moves
us closer to neighborhood harmony.  Thank you for considering our comments.
Frank Elliott, for:
image.png
13 of 31

--- page 14 ---
Historic Policy Workplan and Timelines 
Comment by LESS RED TAPE  
June 17, 2024 
 
Attention:  City Council Members and City Manager Alex Khojikian: 
 
 
Summary: Less Red Tape believes it's financially irresponsible for the City to 
invest time and money in updating the local historic designation process without 
a guarantee the updated process won't be bypassed 
 
LRT embraces the importance of establishing a local process that is both 1) in harmony 
with City housing objectives, and 2) involves property owners in the decision to confer 
historic designation.  Creating historic districts to preserve the look and feel of 
properties should be carefully balanced against City wide housing needs and owners' 
property rights. 
 
Any discussions about a local process are premature. 
• San Mateo already has a local process for designating historic properties and 
districts. In essence, the Council can vote to confer historic designation on any 
property or district. 
• Given the current budget crisis, it is not fiscally responsible to spend hundreds of 
thousands of dollars to survey the city and revise the local process. 
• If Council decides to revise the local process, district nominations should require 
majority consent by owners, as in San Francisco which requires 2/3 owner 
consent.  
• There is nothing to stop 3rd party organizations from bypassing the local process 
and applying directly to the state Office of Historic Preservation.  However, the 
City can discourage such attempts by making it known that the Council will issue 
a strongly worded opposition letter, when asked by the OHP for comments. 
• Given that SMHA is currently pursuing a nomination outside of local 
process, developing a local process is a waste of time and money. 
City Action Item: We urge the City Council to agendize and support a measure to 
strongly oppose the Baywood [or any other] nomination, which bypasses a local 
process and is overwhelmingly opposed by homeowners.  We hope this will encourage 
SMHA to permanently withdraw their nomination and embrace development of a local 
process. 
 
The people appearing on the following page agree for their names to appear in support 
of the above. 
 
 
14 of 31

--- page 15 ---
Historic Policy Workplan and Timelines 
Comment by LESS RED TAPE  
June 17, 2024 
 
I believe it's financially irresponsible for the City to invest time and money in 
updating the local historic designation process without a guarantee the updated 
process won't be bypassed. 
 
With their permission signed by: 
 
 
 
 
15 of 31

--- page 16 ---
From:
Jeremy Levine
To:
Clerk; Lisa Diaz Nash; Rob Newsom; Richard Hedges; Adam Loraine; Amourence Lee
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Zachary Dahl; Manira Sandhir; Rachel Horst; Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
Public Comment on Special Meeting Item 2, Regular Meeting Item 24
Date:
Monday, June 17, 2024 2:01:09 PM
Good afternoon San Mateo City Council Members, 
Thank you for this opportunity to comment in advance of your very busy meetings tonight.
And thank you especially to staff for your informative reports. 
Regarding Special Meeting Item 2, Historic Policy Workplan and Timelines, HLC supports
Option 3: "Maintain Current Prioritization for Actions CD 5.8 and CD 5.9." Considering the
city's increasingly constrained budget and limited staff time, San Mateo needs to prioritize its
housing element implementation goals. Rezoning, further reform to entitlement processes,
exploring missing middle housing options, and more will all require substantial staff effort. 
HLC is generally concerned by the use of the historic districting process to make housing
more difficult to build. Efforts by the San Mateo Heritage Alliance to impose a historic district
on most of the Baywood neighborhood would create a substantial new regulatory barrier to
housing. As long as residents of San Mateo pursue the historic districting process at the state
level, a local process will be largely irrelevant. The city should not use public resources to
analyze historic preservation unless it can demonstrate that local elected officials, not highly
paid consultants or state-level appointees, will have the final say in designating historic
resources. 
Regarding Regular Meeting Item 24, By-Right Housing Opportunity Overlay District, HLC
supports the city's efforts to comply with state law by removing barriers to housing
production. We also believe the newly proposed Housing Opportunities Overlay (H) District
could be applied more broadly. The draft ordinance implementing the H District applies the
streamlining provisions exclusively to properties on which streamlining is legally required. 
If San Mateo wants to achieve its housing element goals to more than double the rate of
housing production, then it will need to do more than the bare minimum required by state law
to create opportunities to build housing. To that end, HLC proposes that the city: 
Expand the H district to cover all properties slated to be rezoned in the pending General
Plan update. 
Extend streamlining to developments that include a wider range of affordability
categories, such as 10% very low income. Increased flexibility will enable the city to
deliver deeper levels of affordability. 
Extend streamlining to developments that do not meet the city's objective design
standards. San Mateo's recently approved objective design standards include over 100
requirements a developer must meet. Forcing developments to follow extremely
prescriptive regulations renders the streamlining largely ineffective. Regulations do not
make buildings beautiful, architects do. 
Expanding by-right streamlining has the additional benefit of saving staff and council time by
reducing unnecessary public hearings, freeing up capacity for other efforts. 
HLC looks forward to continuing to support the city's efforts to implement the housing
16 of 31

--- page 17 ---
element and meet the needs of the entire San Mateo community,
Jeremy

Jeremy Levine (he « him)

Policy Manager

Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County

www.hicsmc.org

Facebook « Twitter * LinkedIn * Instagram « Become A Member!

17 of 31


--- page 18 ---
From:
Shirley Melnicoe
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Clerk; Planning
Subject:
Historic Policy Workplan and Timelines 6-17-2024
Date:
Monday, June 17, 2024 11:37:29 AM
Dear Mayor Nash & City Council Members:
With regards to the Historic Policy Workplan, please support Option 1:
Prioritize Implementation of Actions CD 5.8 and CD 5.9.  It is essential to
update regulations to reflect the changing landscape and to ensure
consistent protection of historic resources across the entire city. Option 1
seems like a proactive approach that addresses the concerns that have
been outlined. By unifying neighborhoods and residents, we can strike a
balance between preserving our architectural heritage and fostering future
development.
Thank you.
 
Sincerely,
 
Shirley Melnicoe
Resident, San Mateo
-- 
18 of 31

--- page 19 ---
From:
Judith Paton
To:
Clerk
Cc:
citycouncil@sanmateocitycouncil.org
Subject:
Option 1 for historic preservation
Date:
Sunday, June 16, 2024 12:56:34 PM
As the owner of a small 1929 house I urge you to adopt this option so as to preserve part of what makes San Mateo
attractive to residents and outsiders.
Thank you
Judith Paton
Sent from my iPhone
19 of 31

--- page 20 ---
From:
Stephen Weller
To:
clerk@cityofsanmateo.0rg; City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Historic Preservation
Date:
Monday, June 17, 2024 1:01:13 PM
I urge the City Council to act quickly and thoughtfully: adopt Option 1 in order to give our
City a clear pathway for preserving valuable community resources, and still respond to the
need for additional housing in San Mateo and throughout California
Stephen A. Weller. MD
20 of 31

--- page 21 ---
www.smheritage.org 
June 17, 2024 
 
City Council 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
RE:  June 17, 2024 City Council Study Session – Historic Policy Workplan & Timelines 
 
Dear Mayor Nash and City Council Members: 
 
First of all, thank you to the City staff for updating the historic resources web pages to answer 
community questions, refute misinformation, and provide more accurate information about how 
the City may treat historic resources and home modifications in historic districts.  
 
For tonight’s meeting, the San Mateo Heritage Alliance strongly supports Option 1: 
Prioritize Implementation of Actions CD 5.8 and CD 5.9 for the Historic Policy Workplan. 
We support Option 1 as the best way to understand our historic resources across the City and 
how we want to manage them. It will provide the answers to questions that people are seeking 
and minimize the opportunity for confusion. Option 1 gives the opportunity for a robust 
community discussion about how San Mateans want to manage our historic resources.  
 
Note that we feel the cost for Option 1 seems high and think the City can complete the 
program in less than the 1-2 years mentioned in the staff report. There are many historic 
preservation ordinances that could be used as examples or templates; the ordinance does not 
need to be overly complicated. One key requirement is to extend the applicability to historic 
districts and resources across all of San Mateo. The elements of Option 2, which are essential 
to updating the historic preservation ordinance, must be a part of Option 1.  
 
Heritage Alliance commits to being an active participant in the development of the local 
program. We will work hard to build support and consensus for the conclusions and direction of 
the final program. Our goal from the start has been to advocate on behalf of the amazing 
historic resources in San Mateo and we believe this program can protect historic resources 
and allow for the vibrant City we all desire.  
 
These policies have largely been in place for decades but have never been implemented. Now 
is the time! This workplan option would be a benefit to the entire City and outline historic 
preservation into the future.  
 
The workplan outlined in Option 2 is an essential part of the update of the historic preservation 
ordinance, but is not adequate as stated because it does not allow for any protection of the 
existing Yoshiko Yamanouchi House Historic District or the pending Baywood Historic District. 
The activities outlined, while important, do little to protect unknown or existing historic 
resources.  
 
21 of 31

--- page 22 ---
City Council 
June 17, 2024 
Page 2 
 
 
2 
Option 3 would maintain the status quo of giving lip service to historic preservation and 
ignoring historic resource goals and policies ignored as they have been for the last 30+ years.  
 
Implementing the Historic Policies in the General Plan is a City-wide issue. It is about 
protecting the historic resources for all of San Mateo. As we have always maintained, only the 
City can specify any protection of historic resources and districts. Your vote determines 
whether San Mateo remains in turmoil or moves to be a leader in the County.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Laurie Hietter 
President 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance 
 
cc: Zach Dahl, Director 
 
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager 
22 of 31

--- page 23 ---
From:
jill valladares
To:
Clerk; City Council (San Mateo); Zachary Dahl
Subject:
Historic Preservation Ordinance Meeting June 17th
Date:
Monday, June 17, 2024 10:21:09 AM
Hi Mayor Diaz Nash and City Council Members,
I wanted to share with you my thoughts on the Historic Preservation Ordinance.
I strongly support Option 1, Prioritize Implementation of Actions CD 5.8 and CD 5.9, where
adequate focus will be given to address preservation City-wide and give neighborhoods a
template from which they can work. An update is necessary and is very important to the future
of our beloved San Mateo neighborhoods.
I believe that Options 2 and 3 do not go far enough to unify the community, and the
unfortunate  fractured environment we are currently experiencing will continue. We need to
address the current status in a positive and productive way.
Proceeding with Option 1, the City will openly lead this effort and make a beneficial impact
on everyone in the city. This is the best time to update the Historic Preservation Ordinance
since awareness, interest and support is widely available. The well-being of our San Mateo
community is at stake.
Thank you for your consideration in supporting the preservation of historic resources in San
Mateo.
Sincerely,
Jill Valladares
23 of 31

--- page 24 ---
From:
Lisa Vande Voorde
To:
Clerk; City Council (San Mateo); Zachary Dahl
Subject:
6/17/24 STUDY SESSION: Historic Resource Element Implementation
Date:
Monday, June 17, 2024 2:13:01 PM
Dear San Mateo City Council,
Thank you for the opportunity to provide comment on priorities for the
Historic Policy Workplan and Timelines.  I have read the City Manager's
report, and I support Option 1: Prioritize Implementation of Actions CD 5.8
and CD 5.9 above the other two options being considered at tonight's Study
Session.  Option 2 is not comprehensive enough, and Option 3 just kicks
the can down the road while allowing the negative community discourse to
roil for another five years.
But allow me to suggest that you consider combining Option 1 and
Option 2.  There is no reason that Option 1 and Option 2 cannot happen
simultaneously.  Both require hiring a historic consultant, so the financial
impact is minimized while providing a more comprehensive approach on
tasks the City should be doing concurrently anyway, as outlined in the City
Manager's report:
. . . developing historical resource screening criteria, developing a process for historic
resource designation based on the current Historic Preservation Ordinance as well as
State/Federal practices, establishing best practices for preservation and
maintenance, building out the website with more historic information and resources to
facilitate public awareness, and developing other tools to support clear understanding
of requirements for projects associated with designated and eligible historic
resources.
The Historic Resources Program needs to be updated as soon as possible
so that the City finally takes control over what it is responsible for in the first
place -- protecting San Mateo's historic resources.  I urge you to do this in
not just the most expeditious way with Option 1, but in the most
comprehensive way, by combining both Option 1 and Option 2.
Thank you for your consideration,
Lisa Vande Voorde
San Mateo Resident
24 of 31

--- page 25 ---
25 of 31

--- page 26 ---
From:
l watanuki
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Zachary Dahl; Martin Taggart
Subject:
Historic Policy Workplace and Timelines
Date:
Monday, June 17, 2024 10:18:19 AM
Dear Mayor Diaz Nash and Members of the City Council,
Thanks for the opportunity to share my thoughts on the Historic Preservation Ordinance.
I strongly support Option 1 Prioritize Actions CD5.8 and CD 5.9 where adequate focus will be given to address
Historic Preservation City-wide and give neighborhoods a template from which they can work.
The Historic Preservation Ordinance needs to be brought up to date.  The San Mateo Building Survey has not been
updated since 1989, over 35 years. This is long overdue.   The Yoshiko Yamanouchi House Historic District in the
Central Neighborhood needs to be added to that survey.
Options 2 and 3 will not provide enough guidance across the City to have any effect.  We need a clear and
comprehensive process to guide historic designations and to establish a a consistent approach for surveying and
identifying eligible historic resources. 
It is important for San Mateo to maintain its special identity and to do this City-wide.
Thank you.
Laurie Watanuki
26 of 31

--- page 27 ---
From:
Connie Weiss
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Zachary Dahl; Clerk
Subject:
For Monday, June 17th Special Meeting: Historic Preservation Ordinance
Date:
Saturday, June 15, 2024 4:59:09 PM
Hello Mayor Diaz Nash and City Council Members,
Thank you for the opportunity to share my thoughts on the Historic Preservation Ordinance.
For the more than 25 years I've lived in San Mateo, I've loved the rich history our city has to
offer via its historic architecture. We don't have to look any further than the most recent
formal recognition of the Yoshiko Yamanouchi House Historic District. There have to be
several other jewels within our City that also should be preserved while still planning for
growth and progress in ensuring a vibrant city with affordable housing.
I strongly support Option 1, Prioritize Implementation of Actions CD 5.8 and CD 5.9, where
adequate focus will be given to address historic preservation City-wide and give
neighborhoods a template from which they can work. My hope is that Option 2 is included
in Option 1, but if it isn't, please consider approving both Option 1 and Option 2 as they
contain key foundations for historic preservation.
In my opinion, Options 2 and 3 by themselves do not go far enough to unify the community,
and the fractured environment we are currently experiencing will continue, and I’m pretty
sure no one wants that.
Proceeding with Option 1 (which hopefully includes Option 2), the City will truly lead this
effort and make a positive impact on everyone in the city. You already have awareness of
the importance of historic preservation in every San Mateo neighborhood, so now is the
time to harness that support and interest in updating the ordinance.
Thank you, 
Connie Weiss
San Mateo Resident
27 of 31

--- page 28 ---
From:
Michael
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Martin McTaggart
Subject:
Historic District Preservation Ordinance - Support for Option 1
Date:
Monday, June 17, 2024 3:25:27 PM
Dear Mayor Diaz Nash and City Council Members,
I am writing to strongly support Option 1, Prioritize Implementation of Actions
CD 5.8 and CD 5.9, where adequate focus will be given to address historic
preservation City-wide and give neighborhoods a template from which they can
work.
Historic preservation across San Mateo is important to all San Mateans, so
please make this a priority. The current ordinance is outdated and only covers
a small portion of the city.
Thanks - Michael Weinhauer
28 of 31

--- page 29 ---
From:
Martha Park
To:
Zachary Dahl; City Council (San Mateo); Clerk
Subject:
The City Ordinance on Historic Preservation
Date:
Monday, June 17, 2024 3:33:20 PM
Mayor Diaz Nash and City Council Members,
I am writing regarding updating The Historic Preservation Ordinance, and the
options proposed by the City.
I support Option 1. The focus should be historic preservation city-wide, and
neighborhoods should be given guidance in terms of how to implement historic
preservation. Options 2 and 3 will not provide enough direction.
Presently there is a lot of discord around the issue of historic preservation, and now
is the time for the City to get more involved.
Thank you,
Martha Park (Baywood Resident) 
29 of 31

--- page 30 ---
From:
George California
To:
Clerk; City Council (San Mateo); Zachary Dahl
Cc:
Derby, Olya
Subject:
Option 1, City of San Mateo Historic Preservation Ordinance
Date:
Monday, June 17, 2024 3:55:55 PM
Dear San Mateo City Council,  
     
In regard to the update of the City's Historic Preservation Ordinance, we are strongly in
support of Option 1 to Prioritize Implementation of Actions CD 5.8 and CD 5.9.  This is the
only Option whereby adequate focus is given to City-wide historic preservation and rightly
provides City neighborhoods with a workable template for implementation.  
     
Options 2 and 3 do not suffice to unify the community, and would ensure that the fractured
environment we are currently experiencing will continue.  
     
Selecting Option 1 will place San Mateo in the vanguard of addressing historic preservation in
a unified and just manner.  There is broad support in the community for elevating historic
preservation in support of our City's wonderful history, as well as its bright future.  
     
Thank you for all your efforts in maintaining The City of San Mateo as a livable and beautiful
destination.  
__________________________
George Derby  
San Mateo, 94401  
30 of 31

--- page 31 ---
June 17, 2024 
 
TO: 
Mayor Diaz-Nash 
Deputy Major Newsom,  
Council Members Hedges, Lorraine and Lee 
 
RE: 
Item 2:  Study Session – Historic Policy Work Plan and Timeline – Overview 
and Council Direction  
 
June 17, 2024 San Mateo City Council Meeting 
 
The City of San Mateo’s Historic Preservation Ordinance has not been updated 
since the early 1990’s, and currently covers only the Downtown and Glazenwood, 
located in Hayward Park.  As it is the City’s responsibility to define land use 
regulations within historic districts, it is time for San Mateo to update its Historic 
Preservation Ordinance to apply to the entire City. 
 
The City of San Mateo currently has the attention of many of its neighborhoods 
and residents across the City interested in having the 1990’s Historic Preservation 
Ordinance brought up to date.  This widespread support will help San Mateo craft  
an ordinance that can bring our City together to protect our historic resources. 
 
Option 1 presented in the City Manager’s report:  Prioritize Implementation of 
Actions CD 5.8 and CD 5.9, where adequate focus will be given to address historic 
preservation city-wide and give neighborhoods a template from which they can 
work. 
 
 
Thank You, 
Dianne Whitaker 
San Mateo 
 
    
31 of 31