Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
Visit Flock
East Hampton Village NY PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Fri Sep 25 2026

Overview

East Hampton Village NY PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. East Hampton Village NY PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, East Hampton Village NY PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Featured Success Stories

Recent Success Story

Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

10

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

205,004

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

26

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCIC, NY Spin, NY Suspended Tags

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

11,252

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to East Hampton Village NY PD data.

Greenport Town NY PD
Northport NY PD
NYS Crime Analysis Center Network
Quogue Village NY PD
Sag Harbor Village NY PD
Southold Town NY PD
Suffolk County District Attorney's Office NY
Suffolk County NY PD
Suffolk County NY SO
Westhampton Beach Village NY PD
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by East Hampton Village NY PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV
SOC 2 Type II

Independently audited controls covering security, availability, and confidentiality.

ISO 27001

Information security management aligned with international standards.

Adherence to Key Privacy Principles

Built to focus on data minimization, purpose limitation, and transparency.

Myth vs. Fact
Myth

Flock has been hacked.

Fact

Flock's cloud environment has never been breached. Flock invests in a strong security posture, including adhering to NDAA, SOC2 (Type II), ISO 27001, ISO 27018 FedRAMP 20x, and Higher Education Community Vendor Assessment Tool (HECVAT) compliance. Additional security precautions include Role-Based Access Controls, data encrypted at-rest and in transit, required Multi-Factor Authentication, and regular penetration testing.

Myth

Flock sells and/or shares customer data.

Fact

Your community owns 100% of your data and it will never be sold. Only your agency decides who to share your data with, not Flock. Flock Safety does not publicly release agency search data. Flock does not operate or support any public-facing searchable database of law enforcement lookups, and we do not provide license plate search histories to websites or third parties without the agency's knowledge and authorization. Other agencies who you share footage with have been responding to FOIA requests and sharing this search data.

Myth

My data is fed into a national database.

Fact

Each agency controls access to its own data. Agencies may choose to share information through a broader network, but nothing is shared automatically. Participation is opt-in, governed by defined agreements, and limited to lawful investigative purposes.

Myth

Flock cameras use facial recognition.

Fact

Flock cameras do not use facial recognition technology. Searches are based on vehicle characteristics, and not identity. Flock cannot recognize, identify, or track individuals. It is purpose built for specific public safety investigations, not to monitor people.

Provided by Flock Safety