Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
Visit Flock
East Hampton Village NY PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Tue Sep 01 2026

Overview

East Hampton Village NY PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. East Hampton Village NY PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, East Hampton Village NY PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

10

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

234,457

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

36

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCIC, NY Spin, NY Suspended Tags

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

12,217

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to East Hampton Village NY PD data.

Greenport Town NY PD
New York State Police NY
Northport NY PD
NYS Crime Analysis Center Network
Quogue Village NY PD
Sag Harbor Village NY PD
Southold Town NY PD
Suffolk County District Attorney's Office NY
Suffolk County NY PD
Suffolk County NY SO
Westhampton Beach Village NY PD
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by East Hampton Village NY PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV

Provided by Flock Safety