source: packet.pdf
sha256: fc8fa4e0e5a2e8a9bcfac2dfd6b6861ec39060af7d55e2a3a988b37e8c2ddf8a
pages: 86
ocr_pages: 15
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
November 4, 2024
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chambers
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Lisa Diaz Nash, Mayor
Rob Newsom Jr., Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Amourence Lee
Adam Loraine
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: November 4, 2024
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID:  893 3054 9542      Passcode: 312403
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CEREMONIAL
1.
Police Explorer Program – Proclamation
2.
Lights On! Safer San Mateo Streets – Presentation
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
3.
Marina Library Structural Improvements Project – Grant Agreement
Approve a Grant Agreement to receive grant funds in the amount of $1,500,000 from the Department of Housing
and Urban Development Community Project Funding Grant Program for the Marina Library Structural
Improvements Project; and authorize the City Manager to execute the Grant Agreement in substantially the form
presented and all other required documentation to receive the grant funds.
CEQA: Approval of the Grant Agreement and acceptance of grant funds for the Marina Library Structural
Improvements Project is not a project subject to CEQA because it consists of a government fiscal activity which
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical
impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).) In addition, restoration and improvements to
the Marina Library is exempt from CEQA review as an “existing facility,” in that it consists of the operation, repair,
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public structures, facilities, mechanical
1 of 86

--- page 2 ---
equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15301.)
4.
Public Works Facilities Construction Manager — Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the professional services agreement with Nickitas 7280 Inc. in the amount of
$490,500, for a revised total agreement amount of $540,000; revise the term of the agreement to a duration of
three years; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form
presented.
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation,
repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures,
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or
former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
5.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Outfall Cleaning and Repair Services — Agreement
Adopt a resolution approving an alternative purchasing procedure to approve an agreement with Power
Engineering Construction in an amount not to exceed $132,100 for the repair and cleaning of the Wastewater
Treatment Plant's outfall; establish a $30,000 contingency reserve; and authorize the Public Works Director to
execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and execute amendments within the contingency
reserve.
CEQA: This outfall cleaning and repair is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it
consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public
or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no
expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
6.
Community Member Participation in Sojourn to the Past Training – Payment Authorization
Adopt a Resolution to authorize the payment of City funds to Sojourn to the Past for the purpose of funding the
participation of two community members in the Sojourn to the Past training, in an amount not to exceed $6,000.
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
NEW BUSINESS
7.
Gardening Waste – Ordinance Introduction
Introduce an Ordinance prohibiting gardening waste from being deposited into the public right of way.
CEQA: This proposed ordinance is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
8.
City Council Priority List – Progress Report
2 of 86

--- page 3 ---
Receive a progress report on the City Council Priority List for fiscal year 2024-25 and provide any needed further
direction to staff.
CEQA: This information update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
3 of 86

--- page 4 ---
TTC 380d
J9JO|AXJ Id1JOg Oa}e|\] UeS



--- page 5 ---
AVWUNWIWOD 8u} YY UINOA
‘SJBOINO BOI|Od YUM Sdiysuonejss Buipjing -

BIIAIOS PUL LUSHB9]UNIO/ «

yoeduw]| AVUNWWOD SAIISOd 9
‘joodsey ‘juawdojereq JeyOeseyy ‘Ay69e}u] «

UOleJO|dXy J9eIeD JUSWI9DJOJUF Me7 -

YIOMWILS] 9 CIYSJOJUS/\| «
BdIAJaS UBnoJU) JUsUUeHeHUZ AyUNWWOd

JUQWdO|eAeq diysJopee7

WUeISOJd
J9JO|AXJ ad1|0d
09}e|\| UeS



--- page 6 ---
Aqiunwwo7
JU} Ul
SJBIO|AXA



--- page 7 ---
UOI1I190 WO?
JEUOIEN
UO)xJ



--- page 8 ---
Shaping the

“Building Beyond the Badge

Next Generation of Community Leaders“

CONGRATS EXPLORER POST 211


--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number: 3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 82-4681
File ID: 24-9204
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 04, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Marina Library Structural Improvements Project – Grant Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a Grant Agreement to receive grant funds in the amount of $1,500,000 from the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development Community Project Funding Grant Program for the Marina Library Structural Improvements Project; 
and authorize the City Manager to execute the Grant Agreement in substantially the form presented and all other required 
documentation to receive the grant funds.
BACKGROUND:
The Marina Branch Library is located at 1530 Susan Court and has served the community since 1966. Situated on the west 
embankment of Seal Slough, the building has experienced differential settlement and currently leans towards the 
waterway. As a result, the floor of the interior slopes up to 7 percent and has created an uncomfortable environment for 
both patrons and staff. Moreover, the slope of the floor exceeds current American with Disabilities Act (ADA) 
requirements. Preliminary geotechnical and structural investigations indicate that the differential settlement has occurred 
due to consolidation of the bay mud soils below the one-story library building. 
To address the critical issues, City staff developed the Marina Library Structural Improvements Project (Project) to restore 
the sloping floors to near-level conditions and to comply with ADA requirements. Additional improvements (e.g., site 
drainage with associated landscape improvements; roof replacement; lighting, mechanical, and plumbing upgrades; deck 
relocation; interior furnishing improvements; etc.) are being considered during the design phase of the Project. 
Funding
Currently, total funding needs for the design and construction costs for the Project are estimated at $8,300,000. To date, 
the City has received and accepted $1,758,600 in grant funding from various sources and has contributed $2,558,600 in 
local funding, for a combined total of $4,317,200. As part of the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) 
Fiscal 2023 Economic Development Initiative – Community Project Funding (CPF) Grant Program, $1,500,000 has been 
awarded to the City for the Project. With this HUD funding, the total project funding will be $5,817,200. Staff is evaluating 
options to close the funding gap and will continue to pursue available funding sources and refine the Project design, as 
needed, to address any funding shortfall. 
Next Steps
To receive and use HUD funds, the City must execute a Grant Agreement, submit required forms, comply with regulations 
of the fund, and complete the environmental review process. Staff recommends City Council accept funding in the amount 
of $1,500,000 from the HUD Grant Program, approve the Grant Agreement with HUD, and authorize the City Manager to 
execute all required documentation to receive the funds. Currently, the environmental review process is anticipated for 
completion by Quarter 4 of 2024. In addition, the project is in design and anticipates completion by Quarter 1 of 2025 with 
9 of 86

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
construction anticipated to start in Summer of 2025, pending securing additional funds.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Acceptance of the Department of Housing and Urban Development funding requires no local match funding or additional 
expenses from the City. This grant award will provide funding for the Marina Library Structural Improvements (665100) 
project.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Approval of the Grant Agreement and acceptance of grant funds for the Marina Library Structural Improvements Project is 
not a project subject to CEQA because it consists of a government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment 
to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(4).)  In addition, restoration and improvements to the Marina Library is exempt from CEQA review as an 
“existing facility,” in that it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor 
alteration of existing public structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or 
no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.) 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Grant Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Karen Cornejo, Assistant Engineer
kcornejo@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7576
Tina Pham, Senior Engineer
tpham@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7305
10 of 86

--- page 11 ---
FY 2023 COMMUNITY PROJECT FUNDING
GRANT AGREEMENT NO. B-23-CP-CA-0225

Grantee Name: City of San Mateo

Grantee Address: 330 W. 20th Ave. San Mateo, CA 94403

Grantee's Unique Entity Identifier (UEI):

Grantee's Employer Identification Number (EIN)

Federal Award Identification Number (FAIN) B-23-CP-CA-0225

Assistance Listing Number and Name 14.251 Economic Development Initiative,
Community Project Funding, and Miscellaneous Grants

Period of Performance/Budget Period Start Date Date of grant obligation
Period of Performance/Budget Period End Date August 31, 2031

This Grant Agreement between the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and
City of San Mateo (the Grantee) is made pursuant to the authority of the Consolidated Appropriations
Act, 2023 (Public Law 117-328) and the Explanatory Statement for Division L of that Act, which was
printed in the Senate section of the Congressional Record on December 20, 2022 (Explanatory
Statement).

In reliance upon and in consideration of the mutual representations and obligations under this
Grant Agreement, HUD and the Grantee agree as follows:

ARTICLE I. Definitions

The definitions at 2 CFR 200.1 apply to this Grant Agreement, except where this Grant
Agreement specifically states otherwise.

Budget period is defined in 2 CFR 200.1 and begins and ends on the dates specified
above for the Period of Performance/Budget Period Start Date and Period of
Performance/Budget Period End Date.

Period of Performance is defined in 2 CFR 200.1 and begins and ends on the dates specified
above for the Period of Performance/Budget Period Start Date and Period of
Performance/Budget Period End Date.

ARTICLE II. Total Grant Amount

Subject to the provisions of the Grant Agreement, HUD will make grant funds in the amount
of $1,500,000 available to the Grantee.

ARTICLE III. Award-Specific Requirements

A. Federal Award Description. The Grantee must use the Federal funds provided
under this Grant Agreement (Grant Funds) to carry out the Grantee’s “Project.” Unless
changed in accordance with Article III, section C of this Grant Agreement, the Grantee’s
Project shall be as described in the Project Narrative that is approved by HUD as of the
date that HUD signs this Grant Agreement. For reference, HUD will attach this approved
Project Narrative as Appendix 1 to the Grant Agreement on the date that HUD signs this
Grant Agreement.

11 of 86


--- page 12 ---
12 of 86

--- page 13 ---
13 of 86

--- page 14 ---
14 of 86

--- page 15 ---
15 of 86

--- page 16 ---
16 of 86

--- page 17 ---
FY 2023 COMMUNITY PROJECT FUNDING
GRANT AGREEMENT NO. B-23-CP-CA-0225

D. The Grantee must only enter activities in DRGR that are described in the
Approved Budget.

E. The Grantee must expend all Grant Funds in accordance with the activity and
budget information in DRGR.

F. Each drawdown of Grant Funds constitutes a representation by the Grantee
that the funds will be used in accordance with this Grant Agreement.

G. The Grantee must use DRGR to track the use of program income and must
report the receipt and use of program income in the reports the Grantee submits to HUD
under Article VI of this Grant Agreement. The Grantee must expend program income
before drawing down Grant Funds through DRGR.

H. Notwithstanding any other provision of this grant agreement, HUD will not be
responsible for payment of any Grant Funds after the date Treasury closes the account in
accordance with 31 U.S.C. § 1552. Because Treasury may close the account up to one
week before the September 30 date specified by 31 U.S.C. § 1552, the Grantee is advised
to make its final request for payment under the grant no later than September 15, 2031.

ARTICLE VI. Program-Specific Reporting Requirements

In addition to the general reporting requirements that apply under other provisions
of this Agreement, the following program-specific reporting requirements apply to the
Grantee:

A. The Grantee must submit a performance report in DRGR on a semi-annual
basis and must include a completed Federal financial report as an attachment to each
performance report in DRGR. Performance reports shall consist of a narrative of work
accomplished during the reporting period. During the Period of Performance, the Grantee
must submit these reports in DRGR no later than 30 calendar days after the end of the 6-
month reporting period. The first of these reporting periods begins on the first of January
or June (whichever occurs first) after the date this Grant Agreement is signed by HUD.

B. The performance report must contain the information required for reporting
program performance under 2 CFR 200.329(c)(2) and (d), including a comparison of
actual accomplishments to the objectives of the Project as described in Article III, section
A of this Grant Agreement, the reasons why established goals were not met, if
appropriate, and additional pertinent information including, when appropriate, analysis
and explanation of cost overruns or high unit costs.

C. Financial reports must be submitted using DRGR or such future collections
HUD may require and as approved by OMB and listed on the Grants. gov website
(https://www.grants.gov/web/grants/forms/post-award-reporting-forms.html).

Page 7
17 of 86


--- page 18 ---
FY 2023 COMMUNITY PROJECT FUNDING
GRANT AGREEMENT NO. B-23-CP-CA-0225
D. The performance and financial reports will undergo review and approval by
HUD. If a report submission is insufficient, HUD will reject the report in DRGR and
identify the corrections the Grantee must make.

E. No drawdown of funds will be allowed through DRGR while the Grantee has
an overdue performance or financial report.

F. The Grantee must report and account for all property acquired or improved
with Grant Funds as provided by 2 CFR part 200 using the applicable common forms
approved by OMB and provided on the Grants.gov website
(https://www.grants.gov/web/grants/forms/post-award-reporting-forms.html), This
reporting obligation includes submitting status reports on real property at least annually
as provided by 2 CFR 200.330, accounting for real and personal property acquired or
improved with Grant Funds as part of Project Closeout, and promptly submitting requests
for disposition instructions as provided by 2 CFR 200.311(c), 200.313(e), and
200.314(a).

ARTICLE VII. Project Closeout

A. The grant will be closed out in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, as may be
amended from time to time, except as otherwise specified in this Grant Agreement.

B. The Grantee must submit to HUD a written request to closeout the grant no
later than 30 calendar days after the Grantee has drawn down all Grant Funds and
completed the Project as described in Article III, section A of this Grant Agreement.
HUD will then send the Closeout Agreement and Closeout Certification to the Grantee.

C. At HUD's option, the Grantee may delay initiation of project closeout until the
resolution of any findings as a result of the review of semi-annual activity reports in
DRGR. If HUD exercises this option, the Grantee must promptly resolve the findings.

D. The Grantee recognizes that the closeout process may entail a review by HUD
to determine compliance with the Grant Agreement by the Grantee and all participating
parties. The Grantee agrees to cooperate with any HUD review, including reasonable
requests for on-site inspection of property acquired or improved with Grant Funds.

E. No later than 120 calendar days after the Period of Performance, Grantees
shall provide to HUD the following documentation:

1. A Certification of Project Completion.
2. A Grant Closeout Agreement.
3. A final financial report giving the amount and types of project costs

charged to the grant (that meet the allowability and allocability

Page 8
18 of 86


--- page 19 ---
19 of 86

--- page 20 ---
FY 2023 COMMUNITY PROJECT FUNDING
GRANT AGREEMENT NO. B-23-CP-CA-0225

ARTICLE IX. HUD Contact Information

Except where this Grant Agreement specifically states otherwise, all requests, submissions,
and reports the Grantee is required to make to HUD under this Grant Agreement must be made
in writing via email to CPFGrants@hud.gov.

This agreement is hereby executed on behalf of the Grantee and HUD as follows:

GRANTEE

(Name of Organization)

BY:
(Signature of Authorized Official)
(Typed Name and Title of Authorized Official)
(Date)

HUD

BY:

Robin J. Keegan,
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Economic Development

(Date)

Page 10
20 of 86


--- page 21 ---
21 of 86

--- page 22 ---
22 of 86

--- page 23 ---
FY 2023 COMMUNITY PROJECT FUNDING
GRANT AGREEMENT NO. B-23-CP-CA-0225

APPENDIX 3 — Grantee’s Indirect Cost Rate Information

Subject to the applicable requirements in 2 CFR part 200 (including its appendices),
the Grantee will use an indirect cost rate as represented by the Grantee below:

[ | The Grantee will not use an indirect cost rate to charge its indirect costs to the

grant.

L] The Grantee will use the indirect cost rate(s) identified in the table below to

charge its indirect costs to the grant.

Agency/Dept./Major Function Indirect cost rate Direct Cost Base
%
%

[PLEASE NOTE: The grantee must check one of the two boxes above. If the second box is
checked, the corresponding table must be filled out as described below.

The table must include each indirect cost rate that will be used to calculate the Grantee’s
indirect costs under the grant. The table must also specify the type of direct cost base to
which each included rate applies (for example, Modified Total Direct Costs (MTDC)). Do
not include indirect cost rate information for subrecipients.

For government entities, enter each agency or department that will carry out activities
under the grant, the indirect cost rate applicable to each department/agency (including if the
de minimis rate is used per 2 CFR 200.414), and the type of direct cost base to which the
rate will be applied.

For nonprofit organizations that use the Simplified Allocation Method for indirect costs or
elects to use the de minimis rate of 10% of Modified Total Direct Costs in accordance with
2 CFR 200.414, enter the applicable indirect cost rate and type of direct cost base in the
first row of the table.

For nonprofit organizations that use the Multiple Allocation Base Method, enter each major
function of the organization for which a rate was developed and will be used under the
grant, the indirect cost rate applicable to that major function, and the type of direct cost
base to which the rate will be applied. ]

Page 13
23 of 86


--- page 24 ---
24 of 86

--- page 25 ---
25 of 86

--- page 26 ---
26 of 86

--- page 27 ---
27 of 86

--- page 28 ---
28 of 86

--- page 29 ---
29 of 86

--- page 30 ---
30 of 86

--- page 31 ---
31 of 86

--- page 32 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number: 4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 82-4681
File ID: 24-9206
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 4, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Public Works Facilities Construction Manager — Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the professional services agreement with Nickitas 7280 Inc. in the amount of $490,500, for a 
revised total agreement amount of $540,000; revise the term of the agreement to a duration of three years; and authorize 
the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
Public Works staff requires professional construction manager services to assist the Public Works Facilities and Fleet 
Division with the delivery of Facilities maintenance projects and Capital Improvement Projects (CIP). Currently, there are 
forty-two (42) projects in development, design, or under construction. The scope for this professional services support is to 
oversee and direct construction, review and schedule deliverables, and estimate costs on behalf of the City. It also includes 
construction inspection as required by the California Building Code for the purpose of obtaining final approval from the 
City Building Department and San Mateo Consolidated Fire. The construction projects for Fiscal Year 2024-25 include, but 
are not limited to, the following projects:

In Design
o
Fire Station 24 Shower Remodel 
o
Transit Center Electrical Room Improvements 
o
Senior Center Fire Alarm System 
o
City Hall UPS Replacement 
o
Beresford Recreation Center Backup Generator 
o
Senior Center Backup Generator 
o
Corporation Yard Engineering Services Office Renovation 
o
Central Recreation Center Roof Replacement 
o
Main Street Garage Waterproofing 
o
Poplar Creek Clubhouse Waterproofing 

In Construction
o
Police Department Roof Improvements 
o
King Recreation Center Backup Generator 
o
King Center Fire Alarm System
o
Police Department Parking Surface Improvements 
o
Central Garage Parking Surface Improvements 

Complete
o
Shoreview Park Restroom Remodel 
o
Lakeshore Park Restroom Remodel 
32 of 86

--- page 33 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
o
2nd & El Camino Garage Structural Improvements 
o
Beresford Recreation Center ADA Improvements 
To be more effective and efficient with construction management support services, staff issued a Request for Proposals 
(RFP) at the start of FY 2024-25 to secure on-call construction management services for a three-year timeframe. To ensure 
interim construction management support for ongoing projects during the RFP procurement period, staff executed a 
$49,500 agreement with Nickitas 7280 Inc. (Nickitas), for the first three and a half months of support during the fiscal year. 
Nickitas had successfully provided construction management support services during the prior fiscal year.  
The RFP was advertised outlining specific criteria for performing construction management and inspection services for a 
three-year term. Five proposals were received, evaluated, and scored by staff based on criteria such as experience with 
similar type projects, team qualifications, and references. Nickitas received the highest average score of 89 out of 100 of 
the proposals received.
Since Nickitas has the requisite expertise, familiarity with this type of work, and experience with the City’s facilities 
projects, staff recommends amending the scope of the existing agreement between the City and Nickitas to support these 
projects through June 2027. Based on the above, staff recommends Council approve Amendment No. 1 with Nickitas to 
increase the agreement amount by $490,500, for a revised total agreement amount not to exceed $540,000 and extend 
the term through June 2027.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is sufficient funding available in each associated project budget to fund the cost of this amendment. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment No. 1
STAFF CONTACT
Steve Wu, Acting Facilities & Fleet Services Manager
swu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7345
Deryk Daquigan, Deputy Public Works Director
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7287
33 of 86

--- page 34 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 2
Rev 7/21
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND
NICKITAS 7280, INC. FOR
PROFESSIONAL CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT SERVICES
FOR PUBLIC WORKS FACILITIES DIVISION
($49,500.00 [Original Amount], $490,500.00 [Amendment No. 1])
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“CITY”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, 
and NICKITAS 7280, INC. (“CONSULTANT”), entered into an Agreement for professional services for 
Public Works Facilities Construction Manager (“Agreement”) on August 5, 2024; and
WHEREAS, CITY and CONSULTANT wish to amend the Agreement to increase the Agreement 
amount by $490,500.00, for a total not to exceed amount of $540,000.00, and revise the term to be 
three (3) years.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 4, “Term,” of the Agreement is amended to read:
“The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on July 1, 2024, 
and be completed on June 30, 2027.”
2.
Section 5, “Payment,” of the Agreement is amended to read:
“Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a 
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed. In 
consideration for the full performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees 
to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount not to exceed $540,000.00, pursuant to rates 
stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference.”
3.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
34 of 86

--- page 35 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 2 of 2
Rev 7/21
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and NICKITAS 7280, INC. have executed this Amendment 
No. 1 on ___________________ 
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Matt Fabry 
Public Works Director
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Date
Nick Panayotou
Its Authorized Agent
President
Date
_______________________________________
  Linh Nguyen
  Assistant City Attorney
35 of 86

--- page 36 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 24-9219
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 04, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Outfall Cleaning and Repair Services - Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a resolution approving an alternative purchasing procedure to approve an agreement with Power Engineering 
Construction in an amount not to exceed $132,100 for the repair and cleaning of the Wastewater Treatment Plant’s 
outfall; establish a $30,000 contingency reserve; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in 
substantially the form presented and execute amendments within the contingency reserve.
BACKGROUND:
All processed and treated wastewater (effluent) from the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) is discharged into the San 
Francisco Bay via a 54-inch pipeline (“outfall”) for disposal purposes. The outfall runs parallel to the San Mateo Bridge, 
approximately 240 feet north of the bridge alignment. The outfall line enters the San Francisco Bay from the west shore, 
discharging into the deep-water shipping channel. The outfall terminates with a section of piping with open ports 
(“diffuser”) that distributes the effluent into the Bay. The mid-section of the diffuser is at a depth of approximately 50 feet 
of salt water. The City contracted with a dive inspection team to evaluate the final 150 feet of the outfall in April 2022.  
The inspection found the final half of the diffuser section contained varying levels of sediment up to 2-1/2 feet deep. The 
final diffuser port was observed to have four feet of sediment deposited directly adjacent to the end gate. The end of the 
outfall has a five-inch-thick reinforced steel concrete slide gate of unknown weight. The original lifting rings for the slide 
gate have corroded away. The operation of the outfall pipe is critical to operate the WWTP. Staff has been working since 
2022 to secure the necessary permits/approvals from relevant regulatory agencies for performing this maintenance.
Prior to solicitation for quotes, staff anticipated the fee to be less than $100,000, which per the City’s Purchasing Policy 
does not require a public solicitation of bids. As a result, quotes were solicited from four companies that perform this kind 
of underwater work.  However, three quotes were received in response which were over $100,000, with Power 
Engineering Construction’s $103,992 quote being the lowest of those received.
Staff have reviewed the Power Engineering Construction scope and fee and have determined it to be appropriate for the 
expertise required to complete the cleaning and repair. Staff anticipates that the sediment removal will take one day; 
however, there is risk for sediment removal to take to two days. As a result, staff negotiated the fee to increase up to 
$132,100 to address this risk. A contingency of $30,000 is also requested to fund any other unknowns given the 
challenging nature of performing this work with divers on the floor of the Bay.
Although the greater than $100,000 contract amount typically requires a public bid solicitation rather than the request for 
quotes approach that was completed, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to 
approve an alternative purchasing procedure when it finds doing so is in the best interest of the City. Pursuing a public 
solicitation of bids would add three months, at minimum, to the schedule. Here, due to the WWTP potentially required to 
36 of 86

--- page 37 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
operate under peak wet weather conditions in the current and coming months, it is critical for this service to be completed 
as soon as possible.
Based on the above, staff recommends adopting a resolution approving an alternative purchasing procedure to approve an 
agreement with Power Engineering Construction in an amount not to exceed $132,100 for cleaning accumulated sediment 
from the outfall pipe and lifting, repairing, and replacing the stop/slide gate at the end of the outfall. The repair of the slide 
gate will be designed and stamped by an engineer. The sediment in the outfall or blocking the diffusers will be removed 
and side casted, and, per permit requirements from regulatory agencies, before and after photographs of the area to be 
used to side-cast spoils will be obtained. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the WWTP operating budget to cover the cost of the agreement. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This outfall cleaning and repair is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the 
operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, 
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Robert Learmonth, Wastewater Treatment Plant Manager 
rlearmonth@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7386
Deryk Daquigan, Deputy Public Works Director
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org 
650-522-7287
37 of 86

--- page 38 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024)
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE TO APPROVE AN AGREEMENT WITH POWER 
ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION FOR THE REPAIR AND CLEANING OF THE WASTEWATER TREATMENT 
PLANT’S OUTFALL IN THE AMOUNT OF $132,100 
WHEREAS, the City Council is being asked to procedure to approve an agreement with Power 
Engineering Construction in the amount of $132,100 for the repair and cleaning of the Wastewater 
Treatment Plant’s outfall; and
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.030 generally requires competitive bidding 
for contacts of $100,000 or more; and
WHEREAS, staff anticipated the fee to be less than $100,000, so quotes were solicited from four 
companies that perform this kind of underwater work; and
WHEREAS, three quotes were received which were all over $100,000, with Power Engineering 
Construction’s $103,992 quote being the lowest of those received; and
WHEREAS, staff have reviewed the Power Engineering Construction scope and fee and have 
determined it to be appropriate for the expertise required to complete the cleaning and repair; and
WHEREAS, staff anticipates that the sediment removal will take one day; however, there is risk 
for sediment removal to take to two days; and
WHEREAS, as a result, staff negotiated the fee to increase up to $132,100 to address this risk; 
and 
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to 
approve an alternative purchasing procedure when it is in the best interest of the City; and
WHEREAS, pursuing a public solicitation of bids would add three months, at minimum, to the 
schedule; and
WHEREAS, due to the Wastewater Treatment Plant potentially required to operate under peak 
wet weather conditions in the current and coming months, it is critical for this service to be completed 
as soon as possible; and
WHEREAS, based on these circumstances, staff recommends approval of an agreement with 
Power Engineering Construction for cleaning accumulated sediment from the outfall pipe and lifting, 
repairing, and replacing the stop/slide gate at the end of the outfall.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
RESOLVES that: 
1.
An agreement for outfall cleaning and repair services at the Wastewater Treatment 
Plant is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of 
the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of 
existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical 
38 of 86

--- page 39 ---
features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15301.)
2.
In accordance with Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3), approval of an agreement 
with Power Engineering Construction in the amount of $132,100 for the repair and 
cleaning of the Wastewater Treatment Plant’s outfall is in the best interest of the City 
because:
a.
City staff anticipated for the work to be less than $100,000; 
b.
City staff therefore solicited quotes from four companies qualified to perform 
the work, and received three quotes; 
c.
Power Engineering Construction submitted the lowest quote among three 
quotes received;
d.
The work needed must be commenced and completed as soon as possible in 
order for the Wastewater Treatment Plant to operate under peak wet weather 
conditions in the current and coming months; 
e.
Utilizing a formal bid procedure will delay the work approximately three 
months; and
f.
Power Engineering Construction’s quote is competitive and reasonable for the 
scope of services and approval of an agreement with Power Engineering 
Construction will allow for the necessary services to be performed in a timely 
manner in advance of the wet weather season.
3.
The Public Works Director is authorized to execute the agreement in substantially the 
form presented and issue amendments within the contingency amount on behalf of the 
City.
39 of 86

--- page 40 ---


--- page 41 ---


--- page 42 ---


--- page 43 ---


--- page 44 ---


--- page 45 ---
45 of 86

--- page 46 ---


--- page 47 ---
Due to concerns with potential concrete failure attempting to recover the end gate to surface, the
primary approach will install two steel lifting eyes secured with epoxied 3/8” diameter threaded rod
while the end gate is in position using Hilti HIT-Re 500 V3 underwater epoxy. Once the epoxy is cured,
the associated nut and washer can be appropriately tensioned for lifting.

If the primary approach is not feasible, an alternate approach is to utilize the small horizontal notches
at the 3:00 and 9:00 position to place rigging beneath, then secure the rigging by placing additional
clamps and rigging to prevent slippage or overturning of the end gate being rigged below the center of
gravity. Once lifted from the pipeline, the end gate can be placed within a steel skip box preplaced
adjacent the worksite or safely re-rigged on bottom to recover to the surface. Once on surface, the
lifting eyes could be installed with a fast set Hilti adhesive and the end gate being returned to service
upon curing of the epoxy.” See drawing below.

STOP GATE mores F|
ay,

SOM. LIFT LUG
( 2-REQ.

O 5" THICK RC.

STOP GATE
DIFFUSER ENO DETAIL

2-LAVYERS 7/32" ROD SCALE 3/9'=/'-O"
@4'CC EW. $ 1"EA. FACE

ss”
L Va"(TYP) |
= 5 e"* B DEEP SLOT

~.cCrmh

SECTION A-A

| Y
REINFORCED CONCRETE cit ai SAN MATEO

Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW) Page 2 of 2
Rev 9/22

47 of 86


--- page 48 ---


--- page 49 ---


--- page 50 ---


--- page 51 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number: 6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-5141
File ID: 24-9233
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
November 04, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Community Member Participation in Sojourn to the Past Training – Payment Authorization
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to authorize the payment of City funds to Sojourn to the Past for the purpose of funding the 
participation of two community members in the Sojourn to the Past training, in an amount not to exceed $6,000.
BACKGROUND:
Several sworn staff members from the San Mateo Police Department recently participated in the Sojourn to the Past 
historical civil rights training. Sojourn to the Past is a nationally recognized non-profit which has been providing immersive 
social justice education for over twenty years by leading participants on study trips through the American deep south and 
Washington D.C.  Law enforcement participation in this training fosters stronger relationships and enhances understanding 
of historical civil rights struggles.  By engaging in this training, law enforcement officers gain a deeper appreciation for the 
systemic challenges and injustices faced by marginalized communities.  This historical context can inform and sensitize 
their approach to modern-day policing, promoting empathy, reducing bias, and fostering trust between law enforcement 
and the communities they serve.  Additionally, shared experiences during the Sojourn can create a platform for dialogue 
and mutual understanding. 
The Police Department intends to have additional staff participate in the training and would like to include two community 
members.  Including community members in the Sojourn along with law enforcement staff is beneficial because it creates 
a space for shared learning, healing, and dialogue between diverse groups.  This shared experience fosters understanding 
and unity, empowering community members to advocate for change in their own neighborhoods.  Additionally, including 
community members in the training encourages collaboration between individuals and groups that may not typically 
interact, helping to build trust, reduce tension, and strengthen community bonds.  
Gloria Brown has been devoted to improving the lifestyle and health of her community for almost 50 years.  Over several 
decades, she has passionately advocated for targeting health issues of vital importance to underserved populations.  Gloria 
co-founded the Mills-Peninsula Health Services African American Community Health Advisory Committee (AACHAC) in 
1995 and has worked tirelessly to improve health conditions in her community, ultimately reaching more than 55,000 
people, with lives saved each year.  She has spearheaded innovative health educational programs including the Women’s 
Health Conference, Men’s Health Symposium, and the Soul Stroll for Health Walk and Resource Fair.  She launched special 
programs addressing Alzheimer’s, domestic violence, elder abuse, caregivers’ education, and much more. 
Angela Miller’s journey began in 1975 when she stepped into the Martin Luther King Jr. Center in San Mateo as a 
receptionist.  Little did she know that this role would evolve into a four-decade commitment to uplifting her community—
a community she herself had grown up in, witnessing its struggles with crime and poverty.  Miller quickly rose through the 
ranks, eventually becoming the director of the center.  Under her leadership, the King Center transformed into a vital hub 
51 of 86

--- page 52 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
for North Central San Mateo, fostering inclusivity and support across its diverse population.  Throughout her career, Miller 
remained deeply rooted in the North Central neighborhood, often intertwining her personal and professional life. She 
nurtured relationships that spanned generations, with former participants returning to express their gratitude and share 
their stories with her family.  Miller’s impact on the lives she touched is a testament to her unwavering commitment to her 
community, a legacy that will continue to inspire future generations.
The Police Department wishes to include these two outstanding community members in the Sojourn training.  The Council 
can approve the use of City funds for this purpose.  This is because the general prohibition on gifts of public funds does not 
apply to charter cities such as San Mateo.  Our City Charter provides that no expenditure of City funds may be made except 
for the purposes set forth by the City Council, as specified.  It is recommended the Council approve this expense as we 
further our commitment to work towards a just and inclusive future. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Police Department has sufficient funds in the current 2024-25 operating budget to cover the cost of participation for 
the two community members at $3,000 each, for a total of $6,000. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution 
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
52 of 86

--- page 53 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024)
APPROVING THE USE OF CITY FUNDS FOR COMMUNITY MEMBERS 
TO PARTICIPATE IN THE SOJOURN TO THE PAST TRAINING 
(NOT TO EXCEED $6,000)
WHEREAS, San Mateo Police Department staff recently participated in the Sojourn to the Past historical 
civil rights training and the experience was invaluable in providing historical context to inform and sensitize their 
approach to modern-day policing, promoting empathy, reducing bias, and fostering trust between law 
enforcement and the communities they serve; and 
WHEREAS, the Police Department intends to have additional staff participate in the training and would 
like to include two community members; and 
WHEREAS, including community members in the Sojourn along with law enforcement staff will be 
beneficial as it creates a space for shared learning, healing, and dialogue between diverse groups.  This shared 
experience will foster understanding and unity, empowering community members to advocate for change in 
their own neighborhoods; and 
WHEREAS, this action would serve the public interest in that it will encourage collaboration between 
individuals and community members that may not typically interact, helping to build public trust, reduce 
tension, and strengthen community bonds. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(5)).
2.
The Chief of Police (or his designee) is authorized to approve a payment not to exceed $6,000 for two 
community members to participate in the Sojourn to the Past training. 
53 of 86

--- page 54 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-1711
File ID: 24-9272
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Prasanna W. Rasiah, City Attorney
PREPARED BY:
City Attorney's Office
MEETING DATE:
November 04, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Gardening Waste – Ordinance Introduction
RECOMMENDATION:
Introduce an Ordinance prohibiting gardening waste from being deposited into the public right of way.
BACKGROUND:
On April 15, 2024, the City Council adopted its Priority List for fiscal year 2024-25. Amongst the priorities approved by the 
Council was an item directing the City Attorney’s Office to conduct legal research and survey other local jurisdictions with 
respect to an ordinance addressing gardening waste.  Initiated by Council Member Hedges, the intent of the priority item 
was to require gardeners to collect leaves, grass and clippings, and to require residents to do the same, rather than 
allowing such material to be deposited into the public right of way where it could contribute to clogged infrastructure 
and/or flooding. 
Gardening material must already be deposited into green bins for collection under the City’s organic waste collection 
ordinance adopted pursuant to AB 1383.  Additionally, the San Mateo Municipal Code currently prohibits material or 
matter blown by leaf blowers from being blown onto neighboring properties or onto the public right of way, including 
streets and sidewalks, without being immediately removed.  
DISCUSSION:
The proposed ordinance would prohibit gardening waste from being deposited into the streets of the City without being 
immediately removed.  The ordinance defines “gardening waste” as leaves, grass clippings, weeds, plants, tree trunks, 
branches, wood shavings, dirt, and other vegetative or organic material produced from the care and maintenance of 
landscaped areas, gardens, and lawns.  However, it does not prohibit the storage of gardening waste in authorized 
receptacles for collection.  Note that the ordinance does not include a specific threshold of gardening waste for a violation 
to occur.  Also, enforcement may be challenging with respect to proving that a person or entity committed a violation, as 
opposed to leaves or other material being blown by the wind into the street.  Nevertheless, City staff will respond to 
complaints as they occur.  
Other jurisdictions in San Mateo County commonly prohibit persons from discharging certain material into sewerage 
facilities where it can cause obstruction, and also ban the dumping of organic waste matter onto public streets.  These 
types of regulations prohibiting illegal dumping or littering are intended to protect the public health and safety as well as 
for aesthetic reasons, both of which are well within the police powers of the City.  Such rules can also help to protect 
public infrastructure, thereby saving taxpayer dollars, and help prevent isolated ponding or flooding where storm drain 
catch basins could become clogged with debris. 
If the ordinance is introduced at this meeting, it would be scheduled for adoption on November 18, 2024. 
54 of 86

--- page 55 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
Implementation of the proposed ordinance would require staff time related to enforcement, which would be complaint 
driven, similar to other existing municipal code provisions.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This proposed ordinance is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Prasanna W. Rasiah, City Attorney
prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7020
55 of 86

--- page 56 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
Amending San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.32, Garbage, to Address Gardening Waste 
Deposited in the Public Right of Way
WHEREAS, one of the stated priorities of the City Council is to adopt an ordinance addressing gardening 
waste to as to prevent home and business flooding because of clogged storm drains or sewerage facilities; and
WHEREAS, the purpose of this ordinance is to ensure that leaves, grass, and plant clippings are not 
deposited onto the street.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 7.32.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 7.32 as follows:
7.32.070  Gardening Waste
No one shall blow, rake or cause gardening waste to be deposited into the streets of the City without 
being immediately removed.  For purposes of this section, “gardening waste” shall mean leaves, grass 
clippings, weeds, plants, tree trunks, branches, wood shavings, dirt, and other vegetative or organic 
material produced from the care and maintenance of landscaped areas, gardens, and lawns.  Provided, 
however, that this section shall not prohibit the storage of gardening waste in authorized receptacles for 
collection.
Section 2. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15061(b)(3), this action is exempt from CEQA because it can be seen with certainty that 
there is no possibility that the activity in question may have a significant effect on the environment.
Section 3. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 4. Publication. This ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 5. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
Place attachments here
56 of 86

--- page 57 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 24-9228
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
November 04, 2024 
SUBJECT:
City Council Priority List – Progress Report
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a progress report on the City Council Priority List for fiscal year 2024-25 and provide any needed further direction 
to staff. 
BACKGROUND:
The City Council goal-setting process includes a three-step deliberation resulting in adoption of a City Council Priority List, 
which includes staff’s proposed work plan for each initiative for the upcoming fiscal year. The first step of the process was 
the City Council Blue Sky Workshop on February 3, 2024. At the workshop, the City Council reviewed the adopted fiscal 
year 2023-24 priorities, removed completed and operationalized items, reorganized the projected completion timeline for 
existing priorities, and proposed new priorities to add to the list for the fiscal year 2024-25. In March 2024, City Council 
reviewed the draft Priority List to ensure accuracy. City Council formally adopted the fiscal year 2024-25 City Council 
Priority List at the March 18th City Council meeting. Fiscal Year 2024-2025 started on July 1, 2024, and ends on June 30, 
2025. This report focuses on the progress made from July 1 through October 15, 2024 and estimated progress through the 
end of the fiscal year. Staff has made progress on each of the priorities or at the very least, has identified next steps on 
how to proceed. Staff recommends City Council review the priorities and the respective updates and provide any needed 
further direction to staff. Staff will be available to answer any questions. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this agenda item. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This information update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - 2024-2025 Priority List Updates
STAFF CONTACT
Christina Horrisberger, Assistant City Manager
chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7210
57 of 86

--- page 58 ---
58 of 86

--- page 59 ---


--- page 60 ---
60 of 86

--- page 61 ---
61 of 86

--- page 62 ---


--- page 63 ---


--- page 64 ---


--- page 65 ---


--- page 66 ---
66 of 86

--- page 67 ---


--- page 68 ---
68 of 86

--- page 69 ---
69 of 86

--- page 70 ---


--- page 71 ---
71 of 86

--- page 72 ---
DIINO S,Aodeuel] AzD | sadeue|y AyD JueIsIssy
Ja3iaqsiioH eul}siiys)

pZ0Z ‘p JaquanON

Wodsey sseaisOJld
3st] AWOL [I9UNOD AUD


--- page 73 ---
4S! ]

AjJOlg JY} 0} SJUBLUYSN[pe palsap
Aue JO} JJ€}S 0} UO!IJDIIIP BPIAOI «

481] AWOL

G7-vZ0Z |!louNO7Z AjID BY} UO SSausO/d
pajedioizue pue pa}a/dWod MAIADY e

‘pajsanbay
UO!oV
9UNOD AUD



--- page 74 ---
sda}s
1xaU pajyedioijuyo

ajep 4S!)
0} apeW ssaisoi1gO Aysold jlIauno;
Woday ssais0ld e

vZ0C ‘bp JAquianon 702 ‘ST Judy

p dais € dais

AyD paydopy e

SW}!
pazijeuoljzesado
pue pajajdwos

pajdacce POAOW SY e
JUDLULWOZ JIGNd e Salwoud
uejd 4JOM pue PaljIPOW/MaN e

yst] Ayuold yWeip saloud
JU} PAMAIADY e BUIJSIXD PAMAIADY e

pZOC ‘8T YosOW v7o7 ‘E Asoniga4
Z dais T dais

SS9IOJd SUITS JEOH jlo9uNOoZ AND


--- page 75 ---


--- page 76 ---


--- page 77 ---


--- page 78 ---


--- page 79 ---


--- page 80 ---


--- page 81 ---


--- page 82 ---


--- page 83 ---


--- page 84 ---


--- page 85 ---


--- page 86 ---
4S! ]

AjJOlg JY} 0} SJUBLUYSN[pe palsap
Aue JO} JJ€}S 0} UO!IJDIIIP BPIAOI «

481] AWOL

G7-vZ0Z |!louNO7Z AjID BY} UO SSausO/d
pajedioizue pue pa}a/dWod MAIADY e

‘pajsanbay
UO!oV
9UNOD AUD

