Police Officer Accused of Tracking Partner Using License Plate Reader - The New York Times Skip to content Skip to site index U.S. Today’s Paper U.S. | Police Officer Accused of Tracking Partner Using License Plate Reader https://www.nytimes.com/2026/02/25/us/milwaukee-police-officer-charged-flock-camera.html Share full article Advertisement SKIP ADVERTISEMENT You have a preview view of this article while we are checking your access. When we have confirmed access, the full article content will load. Supported by SKIP ADVERTISEMENT Police Officer Accused of Tracking Partner Using License Plate Reader The Milwaukee officer used the technology to run searches on his partner’s plate 124 times, officials said, and he also tracked the person’s ex. Listen · 3:24 min Share full article If convicted on the misdemeanor charge, attempted misconduct in public office, the officer could face up to nine months in prison and a $10,000 fine. Credit... Morry Gash/Associated Press By Hannah Ziegler Feb. 25, 2026 See more of our coverage in your search results. Encuentra más de nuestra cobertura en los resultados de búsqueda. Add The New York Times on Google Agrega The New York Times en Google A Milwaukee police officer was criminally charged on Tuesday after using license plate recognition technology to surveil a person he was dating and the person’s ex for two months last year, the authorities said. The officer, Josue Ayala, 33, used the technology, from Flock Safety, to track his partner and the person’s ex, according to a criminal complaint made public on Tuesday. Mr. Ayala ran searches on his partner’s license plate 124 times from March to May 2025, according to the complaint. He did the same action to his partner’s ex 55 times, the authorities said. Flock says it provides camera systems and license plate readers to more than 5,000 law enforcement agencies and 1,000 businesses across the country. Mr. Ayala said he had used Flock to search for the license plates for an “investigation,” according to the authorities, but he was instead using the technology for personal reasons. He was on duty for the Milwaukee Police Department each time he ran the plates, according to the complaint. Mr. Ayala’s partner’s ex learned about the location tracking from the website Have I Been Flocked, which shows people when their license plates have been searched in the company’s systems. The ex initially believed Mr. Ayala had searched the plate more than 100 times, according to the complaint. Thank you for your patience while we verify access. If you are in Reader mode please exit and log into your Times account, or subscribe for all of The Times. Thank you for your patience while we verify access. Already a subscriber? Log in . Want all of The Times? Subscribe . Related Content Advertisement SKIP ADVERTISEMENT Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2026 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Accessibility Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Canada International Help Subscriptions Manage Privacy Preferences