source: packet.pdf
sha256: 248ab7b1fe5d36966bd365e5fedb0b624def78c81e5fd7d68e74206f91e5e80e
pages: 682
ocr_pages: 347
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commission 
December 13, 2023
7:00 PM
City Council Chambers
330 W. 20  Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Susan Rowinski, Chair
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair
Sigalle Michael
Pam Rittelmeyer
Clifford Robbins
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: December 13, 2023 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 867 2355 5829      Passcode: 982426
The Sustainability and Infrastructure meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move to the next regular meeting.
 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure meeting of November 8, 2023.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to Speak"
form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be referred to
staff for further review.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
Wireless Telecommunication Law and Small Cell Facilities Informational Session
Receive a presentation by Dr. Jonathan Kramer from Telecom Law Firm PC about wireless telecommunications
law, small cell facilities, AB 965, and related matters and best practices.
PUBLIC HEARING
th
1 of 682

--- page 2 ---
3.
Wireless Permit Approval at 16 Baldwin (Permit# WC-2023-000201) - Appeal
Hold a public hearing to consider an appeal from residents within 500 feet of the proposed site of a wireless
permit application that was approved by the Director of Public Works.
4.
Wireless Permit Approval at 1001 Bermuda Drive (Permit# WC-2023-000206) - Appeal
Hold a public hearing to consider an appeal from a resident within 500 feet of the proposed site of a wireless
permit application that was approved by the Director of Public Works.
5.
Wireless Permit Approval at 535 Clark Drive (Permit# WC-2023-000219) - Appeal
Hold a public hearing to consider an appeal from a resident within 500 feet of the proposed site of a wireless
permit application that was approved by the Director of Public Works.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items
 
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Commission meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org  until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Public Work’s Office at (650) 522-7300 or publicworks@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting
will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 682

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-8245
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Brad Underwood
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
December 13, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure meeting of November 8, 2023. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes of the November 8, 2023 meeting
3 of 682

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission  
November 8, 2023 
7:00 PM 
 
City Hall Council Chamber 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS  
Susan Rowinski, Chair  
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair 
Sigalle Michael 
Pam Rittelmeyer 
Clifford Robbins 
 
MINUTES 
 
CALL TO ORDER 
 
Pledge of Allegiance 
 
Roll Call 
Present:  Chair Rowinski, Vice Chair Narita, and Commissioner Michael. 
Absent:  Commissioner Robbins and Commissioner Rittelmeyer were absent and excused.   
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
  
1. Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes - Approval  
 
Motion was made to approve the minutes of October 11, 2023.  Commissioner Narita asked for a correction to 
the October minutes regarding the 2022 Rail Corridor Transportation Management Association (TMA) Annual 
Report item pertaining to the Bay Meadows data collection.  Clarifying she would not accept the conclusion that 
the data is anomalous because of a failure to compare data between this year’s data, the prior years’ data and 
future data if different vendors are contracted to collect the data.  Motion passed 3-0, as amended. 
 
Moved:       Michael, Seconded: Rowinski 
Ayes:          Narita, Rowinski, and Michael 
Noes:          None 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Henry Hertz commented on past Federal Communications rulings.  
 
Allison MacQueen spoke about bicycle safety and asked for more safety measures including a 4-way stop sign, 
longer red curb striping and a 4-way crosswalk at 2nd and Quebec.   
 
PUBLIC HEARING 
 
2. Wireless Permit Approval at 380 Virginia Avenue (Permit #WC-2023-000089) – Appeal 
Jason Hallare, Senior Engineer, made a presentation to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission to hold 
a public hearing to consider an appeal from a resident within 500’ of the proposed site of a wireless permit 
4 of 682

--- page 5 ---
application that was approved by Public Works.  Linh Nguyen, Assistant City Attorney, was also available to 
answer questions.  Stephanie Hall of Atchison, Barisone & Condotti, APC was available as advisor to the 
Commission. Tyler Reisetter, P.E. Civil Engineer, and Taylor Blanford, Environmental Planning Analyst with 
Kimley-Horn, and Michael Cintron, Crown Castle Permitting Manager, were available to answer questions on 
behalf of Crown Castle.   
 
Commissioners asked questions of staff.   
 
The Chair opened the public hearing.  Appellant Kelly Ryerson and Irena Mavridis provided testimony in 
support of the appeal of the wireless permit approval at 380 Virginia Avenue.   
 
Public Comment: Aleksandyr Lavery, Henry Hertz, Vikash Bhagwandin and Jack Naify spoke in support of the 
appeal. The Chair closed the Public comment section of the hearing.   
 
• Comments from Commissioners:  Commissioner comments and deliberation ensued with overall direction 
given to staff to bring forward a study session/training at the next regular meeting to better understand small 
cell technology, role of federal government oversight, language and terminology clarification, and a clearer 
legal understanding of the role of the City in this process.  Jason Hallare pointed out the GIS map is on the 
City’s website with the application and status of each request; commissioners will send Jason Hallare their 
top three or four questions they want covered in the small cell training; asked if the term “less obtrusive” can 
be clarified for future appeals and also the community level aesthetics; suggested Andrew Capanelli provide 
a written document for the next meeting.  
 
Following comments from the commissioners, a motion was made to deny the appeal and approve the permit 
application at 380 Virginia Ave.  Motion passed 3-0.  
 
Moved:       Narita, Seconded: Michael 
Ayes:          Narita, Rowinski, and Michael 
Noes:          None  
   
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENT FROM COMMISSIONER AND STAFF 
• Deputy Director Matt Fabry mentioned the small cell training session for staff and commissioners at the 
December 13th Commission meeting.  Local Roadway Safety Plan, 28th Ave. Gap Closure, Public Works in 
Review and Quarterly Bicycle/Pedestrian Update agenda items may move to the beginning of the year. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Adjourn:   9:20 PM 
 
Agendas and background material are posted on the City’s website  www.cityofsanmateo.org 
at least 72 hours preceding each Commission meeting.  Any supplemental material distributed to Commissioners after the posting of 
the agenda will be available for public review at City Hall, City Manager’s office. 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this 
meeting may contact the Public Works Department at (650) 522-7300.  Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the city to 
make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting. 
 
5 of 682

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-8254
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Brad Underwood
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
December 13, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Wireless Telecommunication Law and Small Cell Facilities Informational Session 
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a presentation by Dr. Jonathan Kramer from Telecom Law Firm PC about wireless telecommunications law, small 
cell facilities, AB 965, and related matters
BACKGROUND:
Telecom Law Firm PC works for and represents local government agencies and their constituents across multiple states; 
government associations like the League of California Cities; and private parties. Telecom Law Firm PC does not work for or 
represent wireless carriers or telecom facilities builders.  
Dr. Jonathan Kramer, founder and Senior Partner of Telecom Law Firm has advised thousands of government units and 
four branches of the military around the country on telecom regulatory and technology matters. He has been directly 
involved in over 3,000 siting applications processed by local governments. He has served as an expert witness and trial 
advisor for governments around the country in key telecom cases reaching the United States Supreme Court. Dr. Kramer 
co-authored and co-edited the FCC's national guidance to local governments on radio frequency safety matters.  
Licensed to practice law in California and New Mexico, Dr Kramer also holds multiple FCC licenses, as well as a California 
Contractor's license for telecommunications construction. Dr Kramer currently serves as a member of the Executive 
Committee of the California Lawyers Association Public Law section. In addition to being an attorney, Dr. Kramer has been 
a radio frequency and broadband telecommunications engineer for over 40 years.  
 
With Dr. Jonathan Kramer’s extensive background and experience, the City is inviting Dr. Kramer to present to the 
commission to provide insight on how to best navigate the complex regulatory bodies surrounding wireless small cell 
deployment in local municipalities.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are no budgetary impacts. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
6 of 682

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Correspondence from Jonathan Kramer 
STAFF CONTACT
Jason Hallare, Senior Engineer
jhallare@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7316
Jay Yu, Engineering Manager
jyu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7323
7 of 682

--- page 8 ---
2708 Wilshire Boulevard •  Number 330 • Santa Monica • CA 90403 • T 310-312-9900 
 
3570 Camino del Rio North • Number 102 • San Diego • CA 92108 • T 619-272-6200 
258 Harvard Street • Number 200 • Brookline • MA 02446 • T 360-272-1300 
  
TelecomLawFirm.com 
 
DR. JONATHAN L. KRAMER, ESQ. 
SENIOR PARTNER - LOS ANGELES AREA 
LICENSED IN CALIFORNIA AND NEW MEXICO 
KRAMER@TELECOMLAWFIRM.COM 
DIRECT SO. CA: (310) 405-7333 
DIRECT NO. CA: (415) 887-1200 
DIRECT IN NM: (505) 490-6800  
 
 
OUR REFERENCE: 
04124/113/1  
December 13, 2023 
 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission  
Hon. Susan Rowinski, Chair 
Hon. Kimiko Narita, Vice-Chair 
Hon. Sigalle Michael, Commissioner 
Hon. Cliff Robbins, Commissioner 
Hon. Pamela Rittelmeyer, Commissioner 
City of San Mateo, California 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
 
Reference: 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
 
 
 
Presentation Regarding Wireless Communications  
on December 13, 2023 
 
 
 
 
Dear Commissioners: 
 
At your meeting this evening, at the request of the City of San Mateo, I will present to you and 
the public an overview of wireless communications technology and infrastructure, as well as 
the regulatory and legal frameworks that shape these areas of local interest and concern. 
 
By way of a brief background, I have been a radio frequency/broadband engineer for over 45 
years, and a local/state/federal government technology advisor since 1984. Since 2006 I have 
been licensed as an attorney in California counseling California local governments on telecom 
and public policy matters.  I hold multiple FCC radio communications licenses (since 1972), as 
well as a state contractor license to construct telecommunications facilities (since 1980). In 
respect of trees, rather than attaching my full 53 page CV to this letter, I invite you to view it 
online at the bottom of this page: https://TelecomLawFirm.com/dr-jonathan-l-kramer/ 
 
Please be aware that neither my firm (which consists of 6 local government attorneys and 5 
support staff) nor I work for the wireless/telecom industry; our participation in the 
wireless/telecom industry is as advisors to local, state, and federal regulators, as well as 
8 of 682

--- page 9 ---
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission  
December 13, 2023 
Page 2 
 
 
 
 
 
      
  
 
 
 
Telecom Law Firm PC 
 
government and private landowners with telecommunications facilities on their properties.  My 
firm also represents local governments in lawsuits against the FCC concerning certain 
regulations, with one case currently pending before the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals seeking 
to overturn certain restrictions on local governments in connection with modifications to 
existing cell sites. 
 
My presentation this evening will cover the following in this order: 
  
1. Briefly About Dr. Kramer 
2. Brief Statement of Independence and Alignment 
3. High Level Discussion about Wireless Communications Technology (Macro Cells, Small 
Cells, Fixed Wireless) 
4. Introduction to Radio Frequency (“RF”) Emissions and Regulation of RF by the FCC and 
Local Governments 
5. The interactions of NEPA, CEQA, ADA, and the FHA in setting of Local Government 
Regulation of Wireless Facilities 
6. Several Court Cases of Note 
7. The Future of Wireless Facility Deployments 
8. Your Questions and My Answers 
 
I anticipate and look forward to your probing questions and observations this evening. 
 
 
Respectfully, 
 
Telecom Law Firm, P.C. 
by 
 
______________________  
Dr. Jonathan L. Kramer, Esq. 
Senior Partner 
 
JK/04124/113/1  
 
 
9 of 682

--- page 10 ---
THE FOLLOWING PUBLIC
COMMENTS WERE SUBMITTED
FOLLOWING THE PUBLICATION

OF THE AGENDA PACKET

10 of 682


--- page 11 ---
|

From: Irena Mavridis

Sent: Friday, December 8, 2023 11:28 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Kramer examples of industry bias with timestamps

Good Evening, Honorable Commissioners,

Please see below for yourselves and click on the hyperlinks and time stamps to see and hear
examples from Kramer himself, highlighting his pro-wireless industry bias.

For the informational session coming up, we have invited two non-biased experts Ariel Strauss
and Andrew Campanelli, two expert telecom attorneys, both of whom have recently assisted
other cities in California with strengthening their ordinances, making them more protective as the
laws permit. In the interest of truth and justice, we hope you take the time to ask these non-
biased experts any questions you may have how San Mateo can also make protective changes to
their code.

Sincerely,

Irena Mavridis and the 140 households in San Mateo

The Oct 1, 2020 TLF Webinar Tells You All You Need to Know

1. Right on Zoom/Youtube . . . TLF says it is aligned with Cell Tower Developer Interests andspins obvious Wireless industry
propaganda to rebut the informed public’s substantial written evidence that proves that the 4G/5G Wireless densification
grid is unnecessary, harmful and hazardous.

2. In the Webinar, TLF admits their main job is to “to get cell towers approved” by TLF’s Planning Department clientsand says TLF’s
value is “achieving swift approvals .”

3. Kramer says all you need to know about the toxic agent/pollutant called pulsed, data-modulated, Radiofrequency
Electromagnetic Microwave Radiation (RF-EMR) — at 30:03-31:25.
~ “I consider ourselves part of the Wireless Industry ... Don’t use the term, radiation— it’s technically,
absolutely, the most accurate word and it scares the ‘bejesus’ out of people . . . please stop using the R-word. The
R-word is the F-word to us because it just makes our job in trying to get small cells approved much more difficult
because that’s the trigger word . . . use any other word, emissions, transmissions, any missions you want, but don’t use
_the R-Word”

© Earlier, Kramer admits his Wireless Industry bias — and his disregard of local values and residential character — at 9:35-
10:07

4. “We understand an important element here. Your job is to build as fast as possible, as cheaply as possible. That
actually is your job. We understand that... Your duty is not to the community, your duty is to the shareholders of

1

11 of 682


--- page 12 ---
your company and the company you are contracting with, if not with the [Wireless] Carricr itself... doing it on the
RESET Semesy whakyouare sipponed te 65).

5. Kramer states the top objective is ASAP Wireless infrastructure build — at 1:08:16-1:08:36

“This is a time-to-market issue. You want the site on air as quickly as you can, and if you area builder, you want the
site on air as cheaply as you can... It may be that you... go down to 30% margin to get the approval six months
faster.”

6. Kramer: Fast, fast, fast! (even if there are incomplete applications) at 38:50-39:03

“You want to get the project done as fast as we do, which, by the way is really what we want... Welike tosee
projects pushed through and get deployed .. . We as project reviewers for jurisdictions have seen where ... a
Professional Engineer’s stamp has been copied off of one set of plans and put on another. It’s illegal... and..
. we’ve seen a PE who has stamped the plans with absolutlely no knowledge of the actual facts. That happens

__Suprisingly often. _

7 Kramer admits to seeing fraudulent WTF applications, a common Wireless industry practice, that is echoed by much more experienced
attorneys (see Campanelli, below); first view Kramer — at 1:21:07 to 22:10

A PE stamp is a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction decision. More and more are requiring them . . . ther have been too many

cases where RF Emissions [RF microwave radiation] has exceeded that which was provided, without a PE stamp .

. Where there has been an intentional falsification or the theft of a PE stamp — violations of law — I would expect we
__Will see permantent revocations.”_

8. On the same topic of fraudulent Wireless applications, view Andrew Campanelli, the top Telecom attorney in the US (7,000 case litigated,
winning 80%) — at 30:29 to 32:50

Thank you for your attention to this
Sincerely,

lrena Mavridis

Sent from Yahoo Mail for iPhone

12 of 682


--- page 13 ---
 ._ ———

From: Irena Mavridi

Sent: Monday, December 11, 2023 8:54 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission; City Council (San Mateo); Alex Khojikian;
Jason Hallare

Subject: Letter from Resident Wayne

Good Evening, Mayor, Council members and Commissioners.

Attached is a letter written by longtime San Mateo resident Wayne, he recently had surgery for stage 3 cancer and asked
me to relate this letter to you prior to Wednesday’s Informational Session.

Please see below from Wayne.
Sincerely,

Irena Mavridis

13 of 682


--- page 14 ---
Thank you mayor and city councle.

Why do we need cell towers when we have already
optics. At least they are safe. We don't know what t
be in 5 to 10 years with cell towers. Today as we are
waves, we are just adding higher amounts to be ast
see more and more cases of cancer but nobody tak
Everybody that has a chance of making a profit, say
of it is the neibhorhood who becomes the guinny p
5/10 years down the road we are wondering why o
learning dissablies and health problems as well as
towers in, it will be like a blanket covering our neig
a stage 3 cancer victim. I'm sure that mico waves a
something to do with it over the years. | just got th
and radiation, belive me, its not fun. | Still have a k
these cell towers in, | will limit how long my 3 year
me. At the moment, they want to to install a cell t
the street that is approximely 50 feet aimed at my
live on either side of it, one is a day care school ar
and both are under neath the poll. Lets see the pe

oe '
eee a

14 of 682


--- page 15 ---
Gn ——

From:

Sent: Wednesday, December 13, 2023 10:33 AM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Cc: City Council (San Mateo); Alex Khojikian; Jason Hallare

Subject: Greenfire Law Comments on Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission Agenda Item 2- Small Cell Info Session
Attachments: GFL-No Cell Outs Comment on City Standards.pdf; 2020-6-10-Encinitas City Council Policy CO35- Small Wireless Facilities.pdf

Good morning members of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission:

Attached, in connection with the Informational Session being held tonight under Agenda Item 2, please find an analysis of the
City’s current standards as compared with other cities, and also a copy of the Encinitas Small Wireless Facilities Policy, which has
many advantages over the City’s policy, and was also vetted by Tripp May at Telecom Law Firm.

| look forward to participating in the Informational Session.

Sincerely,

Ariel Strauss

I'm using Adobe Acrobat.
You can view "GFL-No Cell Outs Comment on City Standards.pdf" at:
-//acrobat.adobe.com/link/track?uri=urn:aaid:scds:US:a60fe233-3525-4e88-9cc2-bc4884b1465d

= ec cs - eee
510-900-9502 x 702

Greenfire Law, P.C.
2748 Adeline Street, Suite A
Berkeley, CA 94703

PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE

This communication constitutes an electronic communication within the meaning of the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, 18 U.S.C. Section 2510, and its disclosure is
strictly limited to the recipient intended by the sender of this message. This transmission, and any attachments, may contain confidential attorney-client privileged information
and attorney work product. If you are not the intended recipient, any disclosure, copying, distribution or use of any of the information contained in or attached to this
transmission is STRICTLY PROHIBITED. Please contact me immediately by retum e-mail or at 510-900-9502 x 2, and destroy the original transmission and its attachments
without reading or saving in any manner.

15 of 682


--- page 16 ---
Ariel Strauss, Of-Counsel
2748 Adeline Street, Ste. A

Berkeley, CA 94703
GREENFIRE 510-900-9502 x 702
LAW, P C astrauss@greenfirelaw.com

www.greenfirelaw.com

December 13, 2023

Via Electronic Mail

To: Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Chair Susan Rowinski, Vice Chair Kimiko
Narita, Commissioner Sigalle Michael, Commissioner Cliff Robbins and Commissioner
Pamela Rittelmeyer
(SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org)

RE: Comments on Wireless Telecommunication Law and Small Cell Facilities
Informational Session

Dear Chair Rowinski, Vice Chair Narita and Commissioners Michael, Robbins and Rittelmeyer:

On behalf of No Cell Outs, I am providing the below comment to assist you in updating
the City’s 2021 Design Standards and Application Requirements (City Standards). The
comments draw on my experience representing community groups in Berkeley, Costa Mesa,
Encinitas, Palo Alto and elsewhere in California to highlight areas where elected officials, their
legal counsel and planning staff have already concluded that they have the authority to push back
on the telecommunication providers and exercise good judgment to properly balance the costs
and benefits of new cellular facilities to serve the best interests of their residents.

This letter compares elements of the City’s existing Standards with provisions in other
municipalities’ policies. | hope that it serves to start a productive conversation about what is
possible and that the Commission will view the community as a partner in the process. In
Encinitas,! which was represented by Tripp May of Telecom Law Firm, and in Costa Mesa, city
leadership directed their legal counsel to work closely with me and my client to come up with a
joint proposal. I ask that you do the same in San Mateo.

Before discussing the specifics of the City’s Standards, I want to point out that the
Standards have a catch-all escape clause that allows an applicant to assert that federal law

demands adjustment to the City’s usual policies.” As a result, even if, in a specific instance,

! | have separately provided a fully copy of the Encinitas policy, which is very comprehensive and was
vetted by the law firm currently advising your Commission.
? City Standards at 12.

1

16 of 682


--- page 17 ---
applying the rules as written would result in an illegal outcome, the applicant has an opportunity
to override those rules. This approach makes it very unlikely that the City will run afoul of the
law if it takes advantage of appropriate legal and technical expertise. Ultimately, applicants will

have the opportunity to offer legitimate, personal wireless services to their customers.

Sincerely,

fuel 4:rauss

Ce: citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org

17 of 682


--- page 18 ---
Review of City of San Mateo Design Standards and Application Requirements

I. Background and Purpose

The City’s preamble is a good start but it would be better if it include even more detailed
findings regarding the City’s aesthetic values. For instance, the City has beautiful shoreline,
distinctive architecture and many unique attributes that the City’s Standards should describe.
There is much to protect and enhance. The 2022 design guidelines by Los Altos Hills contains
detailed findings that help to justify their distinctive approach and are worth reading.

Il. Site Locations

Two positive attributes of this section are that the Standards place an appropriately high
“clear and convincing” burden of proof on applicants and correctly require that more preferred
locations rejected by the applicant be “technically infeasible.” However, the Standards do not
define “technically infeasible.” Many other cities’ policies include definitions. For instance,
Encinitas’ policy defines “technically infeasible” to mean “physically impossible and not merely
more difficult or expensive than a noncompliant alternative.”*

Like most wireless policies, the Standards set forth a hierarchy of Site Location
preferences where an applicant, in theory, must not place an antenna in a less favored district
(i.e., residential vs industrial) if a more favorable district is available. While this is a good
structure, unfortunately, this section allows too much leeway for applicants to avoid compliance
and little direction to staff to justify critiquing applications in a principle and consistent way.

1. Unclear Service Objective Requirements

The City’s current application form’s Project Purpose and Technical Objectives section
provides a good starting point for explaining the purpose of the application. However, in
practice, recent applications have not included the required information. As a result, it is very

difficult to evaluate or apply a consistent approach to determine whether other sites are

3

https://www.losaltosca.gov/sites/default/files/fileattachments/city_council/page/48421/wireless_ telecomm

unications design guidelines resolution draft_2022.pdf

“ Encinitas Policy No. C035 (Reso. 2020-38, June 10, 2020) § 3; see also Berkeley Municipal Code §
16.10.020 (“incapable of being accomplished based on existing technology compatible with an
applicant’s existing network”).

3

18 of 682


--- page 19 ---
technically infeasible for meeting this amorphous objective. The applicant should be required to
detail the level and geographic distribution of personal wireless services currently available to
customers and explain functionally the personal wireless services it intends to provide by means
of the application.
2. Lack of Setback from Residences

The Standards does not address proximity to residences. This utility equipment is least
compatible in residential areas. Currently, telecommunication and electricity infrastructure is
being undergrounded in more affluent areas to reduce visual clutter and make those
neighborhood more resilient. Close proximity to homes is most likely to affect property values
because a buyer can readily decide against the house with an antenna in front of it. Many cities
outright prohibit antennas within very close distances to homes, such as 25 feet.° Malibu’s
standards simply state: “Placements shall not be in front of dwelling units or schools.”® Encinitas
clarifies that when there is conflict among policy objectives, “the technically feasible location
furthest from all residences will be deemed to be the most preferred alternative.”
3. Residential Areas Should be Treated Categorically Differently

Traditionally, cities generally did not allow these devices in residential zones. The
Telecommunications Act of 1996 and the FCC’s 2018 Small Cell Order prevents cities from
categorically banning them. But the City remains authorized to limit them to the greatest extent
allowed by federal law. As a result, some cities now prohibit antennas in residential zones unless
the applicant can demonstrate that applying the rule will “have the effect of prohibiting the
provision of personal wireless services.”* For instance, under Encinitas’ policy, any location
within 500 feet of a residence or within a residential zone is a “restricted site location” that can
only be approved if the applicant demonstrates federal preemption.’ Ideally the City’s policy will
define “effective prohibition” based on the rulings of the Ninth Circuit courts and provide a

detailed procedure for gathering the necessary information to enable staff in administering the

° Cost Mesa Design Guidelines § 1(a)(3); Palo Alto Objective Standards (Reso. 9873, Dec. 16, 2019) at 8
(“no WCF exception may be granted . . . within 20 feet of a habitable residential building in a residential
zoning district”), https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/files/assets/public/v/1/city-manager/communications-
office/wireless-communication-facilities/city-council-reso-9873-signed-121619-wef-standards-
update.pdf.

° Malibu ROW Standards (Reso. 20-65, Dec. 9, 2020) § 5(D).

7 Encinitas Policy § 10(b).

847 U.S. Code § 332(c)(7)(B)() UD.

° Encinitas Policy § 10(a).

19 of 682


--- page 20 ---
policy consistently.'° However, some cities have opted to put less effort into drafting and address
the question when it arises.
4. Additional Granular Preferences

Some cities add additional selection preferences or procedures, such as differentiating
between arterial streets and narrow residential streets,'' banning facilities on streets with
important views as determined by the General Plan!” or requiring facilities within certain
viewsheds to be reviewed by a designated department or under more exacting standards. !3
A few cities have found that installations in the public right of way (ROW) have unduly
proliferated and are now attempting to direct facilities back to private property by making the
ROW a less preferred location.!*

Several cities prohibit or discourage all facilities near schools. The City’s Standards
merely state regarding only free-standing facilities: “Avoid, when reasonably feasible, placement
in residential areas, near schools, and parks.”!> There are no restrictions for antennas added to
existing poles. In contrast, Palo Alto declares: a small cell antenna “shall not be placed within
600 feet of a parcel containing a public school. No [] Exception shall be granted allowing a WCF
to be placed closer than 300 feet to a parcel containing a public school.”'®

Hil. Pole Selection

The Standards do not clarify how to decide whether it is more important to place an
antenna in a preferred district or more important to have no new poles. Frequently, the public
would prefer a new pole in a commercial area than an antenna on an existing pole right in front
of a residence. This is particularly true if the antenna can be placed on a replacement pole. There
is no legal barrier to preferring better siting to fewer poles/less pole replacement. In any event,
the City and public should have the opportunity to consider this option of a new pole in a better
location rather than an existing pole in a worse location.!7

IV. Design Standards

' See, e.g., Langley, Washington Municipal Code § 18.23.060(m) (enacted in 2022).
'! Palo Alto Objective Standards at 3.
' Id. at 4 (“A WCF shall not be placed along an identified scenic route” as identified in the city’s
Comprehensive Plan).
'S See San Francisco Code, Art. 25, §§ 1501, 1509; Art. 27, § 2704(c)(4).
'4 Los Altos Hills Municipal Code § 10-1.1306(a).
'5 City Standards at 29.
6 Palo Alto Objective Standards at 3; see also Berkeley Administrative Guidelines (2022) § 7(a)(11)
(“300 feet of a City park, school, or senior center, or of a historic district” is least preferred).
'7 See Encinitas Policy § 10(f).
5

20 of 682


--- page 21 ---
1. Respecting Views (Paragraph 2)

The Standards prohibit “obstructing views” from habitable areas “to the maximum extent
feasible.” Other cities categorically prohibit facilities in locations assumed likely to be disruptive
without needing to debate whether a view is “obstructed.” For instance, Palo Alto’s policy
declares that “No WCF shall be placed within the public right of way in the area between the
street centerline and the central fifty percent (50%) of the immediately adjacent parcel’s front lot
line.”!§ Residents moved in before this equipment was added and they simply do not want to
look at these additions regardless of what is visible behind them.

2. Anticipating Future Growth

Federal law entitles a wireless provider to add antennas to an existing small cell site and
extend a pole ten feet vertically to accommodate the equipment, regardless of any existing
zoning constraints, unless this change “would defeat the concealment elements” of facility.’

This means that if an antenna is totally disguised (often known as “stealth”), the site is
less able to be expanded without City oversight because additions are likely be noticeable as
antennas. As a result, the City should maximally require facilities to be “stealth” to reduce the
negative visual impact and prevent undesirable co-location. Because of the risk of uncontrollable
expansion, some cities sensibly require that mock-ups of maximum expansion also be included
in the application.

9. Landscaping and Street Trees (Paragraphs 4 and 7)

Paradoxically, applicants can abuse Design Standards to exclude feasible, more preferred

locations. For instance, an applicant can say that a better location is not allowed because it will

99 20

violate the City’s prohibition on “damage[ing] existing trees, which might only mean some

harmless pruning.”! The City should clarify that some flexibility on Design Standards

compliance is allowed to facilitate more preferred placement.

3. Spacing of Facilities

'8 Palo Alto Objective Standards at 3; see also Encinitas Policy § 10(f)(2) (“not be placed directly in front
of any door or window”).

'9 47 CFR § 1.6100(b)(7)(v).

20 City Standards at 6; cf Palo Alto Objective Standards at 35 (directing planting of street trees within 35
feet of facility to shield it from view); San Francisco Municipal Code, Art. 25, § 1506(a) (“may require as
a Condition of approval that the Permittee plant and maintain an appropriate street tree adjacent to the
Utility Pole so as to provide a screen”).

21 City Standards at 4.

21 of 682


--- page 22 ---
Unnecessary visual clutter is a problem created by antennas on existing poles as well as
free-standing poles. However, the Standards prohibit free-standing antennas within 250 feet of
one another, but place no limitation on the proximity of antennas on existing poles.”” Other cities
impose spacing requirements for both situations, and also provide larger separation distances.”

Vs Structural Analysis

Many cities have stricter structural guidelines” to ensure improved resilience and avoid
injury or property damage in the event of high winds, earthquake or vehicle collision.2> Encinitas
has since 2020 required that applicants describe hazards faced by site, including historical
maximum sustained wind and temperature, diagraming the site’s launch and fall zones and
assuring resilience against 100-year flooding.”®

Additionally, due to concern that electrical equipment can malfunction and cause fires,
many cities impose robust electrical safety requirements that are lacking in the Standards. For
instance, Encinitas also provides for specific Fire Department plan review and approval, as well
as a process for ensuring ongoing compliance.?’

VI. Assuring Applicants Comply with Federal Law

City Code Section 17.10.070(b)(3) requires that applicant presently “comply with all
applicable federal, state and local laws[,]” which includes FCC environmental regulations. ”8
Other cities have similar provisions.*? However, the Standards do not offer further clarification
regarding what approvals applicants routinely need or when this must occur so that staff can
specifically verify compliance. It does not make sense for the City to dedicate significant

resources under the rushed FCC shot clock process if the applicant is not ready to proceed.

22 Id. at 29-30.
* Palo Alto Objective Standards at 4 (600 feet); Los Altos Hills Municipal Code §10-1.1309(c)(3) (1,000-
1,500 feet).
4 City Standards at 15.
°° Calabasas Municipal Code (March 2019) § 5(E)(3)(e)(iv) (free-standing poles are require to be set back
at least “one hundred fifty (150) percent of the height of the tower to the nearest structure designed for
occupancy.”).
6 Encinitas Policy § 6(a)(12)(A); see also, § 11(0) (fire safety standards).
77 Td. § 9(a)(23); see also, Sebastopol Municipal Code § 17.130.120; Monterey Municipal Code § 38-
112.4 (E)(1)(d).
8 49 C.F.R. § 1.1307
9 See also, Huntington Beach Code § 230.96(6) (mandating compliance with federal law as a condition
of approval).

7

22 of 682


--- page 23 ---
While the City itself is not subject to the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), the
applicants operating under FCC spectrum licenses unquestionably are.*° And “nothing in the
TCA [Telecommunications Act] nor any other federal law . . . forbids a local government from
independently considering compliance with federal law in deciding whether to grant or deny a
building permit” or planning permit.>' Unfortunately, noncompliance with NEPA requirements is
not uncommon. For instance, in December 2022, Verizon admitted “that it violated the
Commission’s environmental and historic preservation rules by prematurely constructing
wireless facilities prior to completing the required environmental or historical reviews” in
Arizona, Indiana, Kentucky, Pennsylvania and Tennessee and paid the FCC a $950,000 civil
penalty.> Verizon is now under a consent decree requiring it to undertake remedial action and
hire a NEPA coordinator. As done in Encinitas,** the City should clarify that the applicant must
establish compliance with the FCC’s NEPA regulations and provide proof of completion of the
necessary NEPA checklist* to show that no adverse environmental impacts will occur.

VII. Using Technical Experts

The Code authorizes staff to hire a technical expert at the applicant’s expense to assist in
reviewing the application.*> However, the Standards do not dictate when this must be done.
Some cities recognize that staff understandably lack the expertise to evaluate applicants’ claims
and specifically mandate that experts be retained in certain instances. For instance, the
Huntington Beach Code declares that the city “will require scientific evidence from an expert in
the field demonstrating the existence of a significant gap in service, and a lack of feasible
alternative sites. The applicant will be required to pay for the cost of said expert opinion.”*
Other codes at least clarify that a consultant is presumably required in the same situation.*”

VII. Insurance and Indemnification

*° United Keetoowah Band of Cherokee Indians v. FCC, 933 F. 3d 728, 744-45 (D.C. Cir. 2019) (holding
5G small cell construction subject to NEPA).

3! Southeast Towers, LLC v. Pickens County, 625 F.Supp.2d 1293, 1302 (N.D.Ga. 2008).

ECC, In re Cellco Partnership d/b/a Verizon Wireless, DA 22-1339 (Dec. 19, 2022), available at
https://docs.fec.gov/public/attachments/DA-22-1339A L.pdf.

33 Encinitas Policy § 6(a)(8).

4 https://us-fec.app.box.com/s/f2rbaxbka6ni4e30jwun4nms6lbk 1 8kf.

35 City Code § 17.10.060.

36 Huntington Beach Code § 230.96(A) (emphasis added).

37 Encinitas Policy § 12(d) (“Due to the technical nature of issues likely to be raised, independent
consultant review will generally be appropriate when considering an exception request.”).

23 of 682


--- page 24 ---
City Standard Condition A(21)(ii) requires that the applicant hold pollution insurance
coverage. Many cities neglect to require this and it is a smart provision because these policies
cover radio frequency (RF) injury. The City is only prohibited from regulating the environmental
effects of RF emissions that are within FCC limits.*® Yet, risk of a lawsuit or liability from RF
harms is not fanciful. Crown Castle’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2022 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission acknowledged the company’s
significant financial exposure from potential future RF-related claims. The union for electrical
workers (IBEW) was heavily involved in the FCC’s 2019 RF proceeding because it is concerned
about RF harm to electrical workers*® and the Wall Street Journal has documented widespread
non-compliance with FCC RF limits in some settings.*? A defendant is liability for harm caused
by exceeding FCC limits*! and there is no safe harbor for noncompliant facilities even though the
FCC has declined to subject some antennas to routine RF testing.** Line workers and others
operate in close proximity to antennas. Despite the City’s good policy, based on Public Record
Act Requests submitted in San Francisco and elsewhere, it is clearly common practice for
applicants to fail to provide adequate proof of insurance and for staff to overlook this. The City
must enforce this important provision.

As with the wireless permitting regimes in some other cities, the City’s Standards only
require that indemnification be provided by the “permittee.”*? Frequently, however, the permittee
is a shell operator, not the parent applicant. The City should ensure that it obtains

indemnification from the parent entity, which has significant assets and revenue.**

38 47 U.S. Code § 332(c)(7)(B).
° FCC, In Re Proposed Changes in the Commission’s Rules Regarding Human Exposure to
Radiofrequency Electromagnetic Fields, 34 FCC Red 11687 at | 100 (Dec. 4, 2019).
“LJ. Dugan & R. Knutson, “Cellphone Boom Spurs Antenna-Safety Worries: Many Sites Violate Rules
Aimed at Protecting Workers from Excessive Radio-Frequency Radiation,” Wall Street Journal, Oct. 2,
2014, available at https://www.wsj.com/articles/cellphone-boom-spurs-antenna-safety-worries-
1412293055?shareToken=stba9e07c4d813468b8615f3bab0ee3¢57).
4! See, e.g., Pinney v. Nokia, Inc., 402 F.3d 430 (4th Cir. 2005).
“2 See 34 FCC Red 11687 at § 112.
“3 City Standard Conditions A(12).
“* Encinitas Policy § 9(a)(11) (“The permittee, each owner or operator of an antenna on the facility, and, if
applicable, the property owner upon which the small wireless facility or other infrastructure deployment
is installed shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City”).

9

24 of 682


--- page 25 ---
RESOLUTION 2020-38

RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ENCINITAS, CALIFORNIA
AMENDING CITY COUNCIL POLICY NO. C035 REGULATING SMALL WIRELESS
FACILITIES AND OTHER INFRASTRUCTURE DEPLOYMENTS IN THE PUBLIC
RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND ADOPTING A MASTER LICENSE AGREEMENT
TEMPLATE AND SITE LICENSE FEE OF $270

WHEREAS, pursuant to the California Constitution, Article XI, Section 7: California
Government Code Section 37100 and other applicable law, the City of Encinitas City Council
may make and enforce within its limits all local, police, sanitary and other ordinances,
resolutions and other regulations not in conflict with general laws:

WHEREAS, on August 21, 2019, the City Council adopted City Council Policy No. C035
under Resolution No. 2019-66, which established reasonable, uniform and comprehensive
standards and procedures for small wireless facilities and other infrastructure deployment in
the public rights-of-way, for the construction, installation, collocation, modification, operation,
relocation and removal of such facilities within the City of Encinitas’ territorial boundaries,
consistent with and to the extent permitted under federal and California state law;

WHEREAS, in response to all comments received and considered at a subsequent
Community Workshop held on September 23, 2019, on October 30, 2019, the City Council
adopted an amended City Council Policy No. C035 under Resolution No. 2019-91:

WHEREAS, on October 30, 2019, City Council also directed staff to reevaluate certain
provisions in the Policy related to ADA and FHAA accommodation, fire safety review,
application reviews and insurance requirements, as well as consider additional revisions
proposed by a community group known as “Stop 5G Encinitas”:

WHEREAS, in response to staff's evaluation and consideration of the proposed
revisions, the City Council desires to again amend City Council Policy No. C035 as more
particularly described in Exhibit “A”, attached hereto and incorporated herein by this
reference (the “Amended Policy’); and

WHEREAS, on June 10, 2020, the City Council held a public hearing to consider this |
Resolution and the Amended Policy and Master License Agreement (MLA) Template, at which |
the City Councilreceived, reviewed and considered the staff report, written and oral testimony

from the public and other information in the record.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, THE CITY OF ENCINITAS CITY COUNCIL
HEREBY FINDS, DETERMINES AND RESOLVES AS FOLLOWS:

1. Findings. The City Council finds that: (a) the facts set forth in the recitals in this
Resolution are true and correct and incorporated by reference; (b) the recitals constitute
findings in this matter and, together with the staff report, other written reports, public
testimony and other information contained in the record, are an adequate and
appropriate evidentiary basis for the actions taken in this Resolution; (c) the provisions in
this Resolution and the Amended Policy are consistent with the General Plan, Encinitas
Municipal Code and applicable federal and state law; and (d) neither this Resolution nor
the Amended Policy will be detrimental to the public interest, health, safety,
convenience or welfare.


--- page 26 ---
2 Amended Policy. The City Council hereby amends City Council Policy No. C035 as
shown in the Amended Policy.

3 Master License Agreement (MLA) Template and Site License Fee. The City Council
hereby adopts a Master License Agreement (MLA) Template and a Site License Fee of
$270 per year for each attachment to a municipality-owned structure in the public right-
of-way.

4 Environmental Review. The City Council finds that, pursuant to CEQA Guidelines
Section 15061(b)(3), there is no possibility that this project will havea significant impact
on the physical environment. This Resolution merely authorizes amendments to City
Council Policy C035 which regulates small wireless facilities and other infrastructure
deployments. This Resolution does not directly or indirectly authorize or approve any
actual changes in the physical environment. Applications for any new small wireless
facility or other infrastructure deployment or change to an existing small wireless facility
or other infrastructure deployment would be subject to additional environmental review
on a Ccase-by- case basis. Accordingly, the City Council finds that this Resolution is not
subject to CEQA or, in the alternative, is exempt from CEQA under the general rule.

x Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase or term
(each a “Provision’) in this Resolution or the Amended Policy, or any Provision’s
application to any person or circumstance, is held illegal, invalid or unconstitutional by a
court of competent jurisdiction, all other Provisions not held illegal, invalid or
unconstitutional, or such Provision's application to other persons or circumstances shail
not be affected. The City Council declares that it would have passed this Resolution
and the Amended Policy, and each Provision therein, whether any one or more
Provisions be declared illegal, invalid or unconstitutional.

6 Effective Date. This Resolution and the Amended Policy will become immediately
effective upon adoption by the City Council and will remain effective until amended,
superseded or repealed by a separate resolution adopted by the City Council.

ra Publication. The City Clerk shall cause this Resolution and the Amended Policy to be
published in electronic form on the City of Encinitas website, in physical form for public
inspection at City of Encinitas City Hall and at least two other public places within the
City of Encinitas and in any other manner required by law.

PASSED, APPROVED and ADOPTED on the 10" day of June, 2020, by the City
Council of the City of Encinitas, State of California.

KS

ge a
© Seig hago at ii

Catherine S. Blakespear, Mayor
City of Encinitas

26 of 682


--- page 27 ---
APPROVED AS TO FORM:

CERTIFICATION: |, Kathy Hollywood, City Clerk of the City of Encinitas, California, do hereby certify
under penalty of perjury that the foregoing Resolution was duly adopted at a regular meeting of the
City Council on the 10" day of June, 2020 by the following vote:

AYES: Blakespear, Hinze, Hubbard, Kranz, Mosca
NOES: None
ABSENT: None
ABSTAIN: None



--- page 28 ---
EXHIBIT “A”
AMENDED CITY COUNCIL POLICY C035

(appears behind this coversheet)



--- page 29 ---
CITY OF ENCINITAS

CITY COUNCIL POLICY
ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL

Policy Title: Small Wireless Facilities Section: City Council
Responsible Department: City Manager's Office Number: CQ35
Approved By: City Council Date Approved: 08/21/19 — Resolution No, 2019-66

Dates Amended: 10/30/19 — Resolution No. 2019-91

06/10/20 - Resolution No, 2020-38
CONTENTS

SECTION 1. BACKGROUND AND INTRODUCTION ...00....000. ccc cccceesceceeneseneeerees 2
Sev lhe, PURPIGE ND TEE I sorceress cere cues 2
SECTION 3, DEPUINUTWON GS pesasszesccss xccasiidinnine Kadiartbdeneadnnseraunsnnenedoennnnanuenacunanennanaannens 5
SECTION 4. APPLICABILITY 000.0... cecccecccccccecnseeeeeesceececesesecececersseseeseuertrereeess 7
SECTION 5. REQUIRED PERMITS AND APPROVALSG..........0.00.00c:ccccccsccsesseeeesseeeees 8
SECTION 6. APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES .............0000ccccceesteeceeees 8
SECTION 7. PUBLIC NOTICES 2.0.0.0... ccc ccccccccceccecseeceeeceseeeeeseececscsseseecenateeeeesses 16
SECTION 8. DECISIONS 2000... ccccccccccceccececesseeesecesenseeceeeeseeseeeeescessaeeseesiteseseeres 17
SECTION 9. CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL ..........0...c0cccccccccccccteceeceetteeeeecetsaneeeenees 18
SECTION 10. LOCATION STANDARDS uuu... cccccccccccccceccccetcceeecettseeeeeteeeeeenees 29
SECTION 11. DESIGN STANDARDS ...000...00..0..00cccccccccceccceceecescecestetetsseeeeceescenuaaeeseees 32
SECTION 12. PREAPPROVED DESIGNS ........00...00ccccccccccccccceccesecesecseseceteesetsensesseey 37
SECTION 13) EXCEPTIONS ooo. cecccee cece creeeeeeceseecececteeesecticttsteecesectaeenees 38


--- page 30 ---
SECTION 1. BACKGROUND AND INTRODUCTION

In 1996, Congress adopted the Telecommunications Act to balance the national interest
in advanced communications services and infrastructure with legitimate local government
authority to enforce zoning and other regulations to manage infrastructure deployments on private
property and in the public rights-of-way. Under section 704, which applies to personal wireless
service facilities, local governments retain all their traditional zoning authority subject to
specifically enumerated limitations.’ Section 253 preempts local regulations that prohibit or
effectively prohibit telecommunication services (ie., common carrier services) except
competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory regulations to manage the public rights-of-way and
require fair and reasonable compensation.

Communication technologies have significantly changed since 1996. Whereas cell sites
were traditionally deployed on tall towers and rooftops over low frequency bands that travel long
distances, cell sites are increasingly installed on streetlights and utility infrastructure on new
frequency bands that travel shorter distances. According to the Federal Communications
Commission ("FCC") and the wireless industry, these so-called “small wireless facilities” or “small
cells" are essential to the next technological evolution. The industry currently estimates that each
national carrier will need to deploy between 30 and 60 small cells, connected by approximately 8
miles of fiber optic cable, per square mile.

On September 27, 2018, the FCC adopted a Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and
Order, FCC 18-133 (the “Smalf Cell Order’), in connection with two informal rulemaking
proceedings entitled Accelerating Wireless Broadband Deployment by Removing Barriers to
Infrastructure Investment, WT Docket No. 17-79, and Accelerating Wireline Broadband
Deployment by Removing Barriers to Infrastructure Investment, WC Docket No. 17-84. In general,
the Small Cell Order. (1) restricts the fees and other compensation state and local governments
may receive from applicants; (2) requires all aesthetic regulations to be reasonable, no more
burdensome than those applied to other infrastructure deployments, objective and published in
advance; (3) mandates that local officials negotiate access agreements, review permit
applications and conduct any appeals within significantly shorter timeframes; and (4) creates new
evidentiary presumptions that make it more difficult for local governments to defend themselves
if an action or failure to act is challenged in court. The regulations adopted in the Small Cell Order
significantly curtail the local authority over wireless and wireline communication facilities reserved
to State and local governments under sections 253 and 704 in the Telecommunications Act.

The City of Encinitas (“City”), nevertheless, retains “broad authority to determine, for
purposes of the public health, safety, and welfare, the appropriate uses of land within a local
jurisdiction's borders", T-Mobile West LLC v. City & County of San Francisco, 438 P.3d 1107 (Cal.
2019), including all zoning powers that are not specifically preempted by federal law, T-Mobile S.,
LLC v. City of Roswell, 574 U.S. 293 (2015).

SECTION 2. PURPOSE AND INTENT

(a) The City of Encinitas City Council (“City Council"), in keeping with the mission and values
of City of Encinitas “to serve the people by protecting life, property and the environment”,
recognizes that this coastal city is one of the most beautiful cities in California, known for
its beaches, ocean views, and stewardship in ecological preservation, which all serve as

* Local zoning regulations cannot prohibit or effectively prohibit personal wireless services, unreasonably discriminate
among functionally equivalent services or regulate based on environmental impacts from radiofrequency (“RF”)
emissions. In addition, local decisions must be made within a reasonable time and any denial requires a written decision
based on substantial evidence in the written record.

2|38



--- page 31 ---
(b)

(d)

a draw for tourists, which is a boon to the local economy. Encinitas has become a
microcosm of natural beauty with the vistas of the Pacific Ocean to our west, the San Elijo
Lagoon ecological reserve and its estuaries to the south, and mountain views to the east.
Encinitas possesses world-famous beaches which draw surfing competitions making
Encinitas a year-round tourist destination of distinction. Encinitas has always been an
environmentally-minded city protecting the ocean and its pristine beaches, the inland
waterways, and the natural habitat. To incrementally achieve increased beautification, the
City has a general policy of requiring the undergrounding of new utilities (see Muni. Code
§ 23.36.120). Encinitas is proud to have protected its scenic beauty along the coast, with
both elements serving to promote tourism in the area. Along historic Route 101 and
throughout the city there are architectural reminders that Encinitas is taking care to
preserve historic landmarks in as close to their original state as possible.

The City of Encinitas (the “City”) intends this Policy to establish reasonable, uniform and
comprehensive standards and procedures for small wireless facilities deployment,
construction, installation, collocation, modification, operation, relocation and removal
within the City's territorial boundaries, consistent with and to the extent permitted under
federal and California state law. The standards and procedures contained in this Policy
are intended to, and should be applied to, protect and promote public health, safety and
welfare, and balance the benefits that flow from robust, advanced wireless services with
the City’s local values, which include without limitation the aesthetic character of the City,
its neighborhoods and community. This Policy is also intended to reflect and promote the
community interest by (1) ensuring that the balance between public and private interests
is maintained; (2) protecting the City’s visual character (particularly in residential zones,
open spaces, primary public viewsheds and areas with community and civic character)
from potential adverse impacts, clutter and/or visual blight created or exacerbated by smal!
wireless facilities and related communications infrastructure; (3) protecting and preserving
the City’s environmental! resources; (4) protecting and preserving the City's public rights-
of-way and municipal infrastructure located within the City’s public rights-of-way; and (5)
promoting access to high-quality, advanced wireless services for the City's residents,
businesses and visitors.

Notwithstanding the forgoing objectives, Section 704 of the Telecommunications Act of
1996 as interpreted by court decisions and FCC rules prohibit the City from taking into
consideration the potential health effects and environmental consequences of RF
radiation emissions from wireless facilities that are compliant with FCC standards. The
City is nevertheless aware of an increasing body of scientific research documenting
biological and environmental damage from RF radiation at levels below FCC limits. Peer
reviewed studies have reported biological damage, including but not limited to
genotoxicity, carcinogenicity, neurotoxicity in humans and animals, brain and heart
cancer, autoimmune disease, DNA damage, mitochondrial damage, brain damage,
breakdown of the brain's protective blood brain barrier, infertility and insomnia at levels
below FCC limits. The City has growing concerns that the RF standards set by the FCC
may not adequately protect public health and safety.

This Policy is intended to establish clear procedures for application intake and
completeness review. The City of Encinitas City Council finds that chronically incomplete
applications significantly contribute to unreasonable delay and create barriers to
infrastructure deployment. Chronically incomplete applications unfairly prejudice other
applicants who may be prepared to submit complete applications for infrastructure in the
same or substantially the same location. Chronically incomplete applications also unfairly
prejudice the City’s ability to act on such applications within the “presumptively

3/38

31 of 682



--- page 32 ---
(e)

(9)

(h)

reasonable” timeframes established by the FCC. The provisions in this Policy afford
applicants and City staff opportunities for direct, real-time communication about
completeness issues to mitigate incomplete applications prior to submittal. The provisions
in this Policy also encourage applicants to timely respond to incomplete notices.

This Policy is intended to establish regulations, standards and guidelines for all
infrastructure deployments unless specifically prohibited by applicable law. For example,
the City Council recognizes that certain state safety regulations, like the CPUC’s General
Order 95, require equipment on joint utility poles to be installed or separated from other
equipment in ways that may result in larger or bulkier installations than the City would
otherwise prefer. This Policy has been designed to mitigate those potential aesthetic
impacts to the extent possible without violating those health and safety regulations. The
City Council also recognizes that different infrastructure deployments may be managed
through other mechanisms, such as franchise or license agreements. Although such
deployments may be exempt from the “ROW administrative design review permit”
established in this Policy, the City official or department that administers such deployment
shall, to the extent consistent with applicable law, apply the same regulations, standards
and guidelines, including but not limited to the restrictions and preferences in Section 10,
to the permit or other approval issued in connection with a request for authorization under
such franchise, license or other agreement. The City Council also recognizes that different
infrastructure deployments may have different impacts on the public rights-of-way that
require different regulations, standards or guidelines to protect public health, safety and
welfare. However, to the extent that different regulations, standards or guidelines are
applied to small wireless facilities or other infrastructure deployments, the City Council
intends that they be no more burdensome than the other when viewed under the totality
of the circumstances.

This Policy is not intended to, nor shall it be interpreted or applied to: (1) prohibit or
effectively prohibit any personal wireless service provider's ability to provide personal
wireless services; (2) prohibit or effectively prohibit any entity's ability to provide any
telecommunications service, subject to any competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory
rules, regulations or other legal requirements for rights-of-way management; (3)
unreasonably discriminate among providers of functionally equivalent personal wireless
services; (4) deny any request for authorization to place, construct or modify personal
wireless service facilities on the basis of environmental effects of radio frequency
emissions to the extent that such wireless facilities comply with the FCC's regulations
concerning such emissions; (5) prohibit any collocation or modification that the City may
not deny under federal or California state law: (6) impose any unreasonable,
discriminatory or anticompetitive fees that exceed the reasonable cost to provide the
services for which the fee is charged; or (7) otherwise authorize the City to preempt any
applicable federal or California law.

However, many aspects of the Small Cell Order are under current legal challenge and
Congressional bills are under consideration that may, in the future, afford the City
additional authority over the approval and siting of wireless facilities. The City therefore
intends to retain the ability to regulate existing and future wireless facilities, including any
approved by this Policy, and minimize the permanent effect of potentially temporary legal
restraints.

Due to the possibility of rapid and unforeseeable developments in telecommunication
technology and customer preferences, and the long-term adverse aesthetic clutter of
numerous wireless facilities, the City intends to conduct the roll out of new wireless

4[38



--- page 33 ---
facilities in a methodical and measured manner to ultimately permit no more facilities than
necessary to provide personal wireless services to the community.

(i) This Policy is not intended to limit or prejudice any individual's ability to seek a reasonable
accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act. the Fair Housing Act
Amendments of 1988, or any other similar federal or state law due to electromagnetic
sensitivity or symptoms based on exposure to radio frequency emissions.

SECTION 3. DEFINITIONS

The definitions in this Section 3 shall be applicable to the terms, phrases and words in this Policy.
Undefined terms, phrases or words will have the meanings assigned to them in 47 U.S.C. § 153
or, if not defined therein, will have the meaning assigned to them in Encinitas Municipal Code or,
if not defined in either therein, will have their ordinary meanings. If any definition assigned to any
term, phrase or word in this Section 3 conflicts with any federal or state-mandated definition, the
federal or state-mandated definition will control.

“accessory equipment” means equipment other than antennas used in connection with a small
wireless facility or other infrastructure deployment. The term includes “transmission equipment”
as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(8), as may be amended or superseded.

‘antenna’ means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6002(b), as may be amended
or superseded.

“batched application” means more than one application submitted at the same time.

“collector road” means four-lane undivided roadway, with a typical right-of-way width of 70-84
feet and a curb-to-curb pavement width of approximately 64 feet. A collector road's function is to
distribute traffic between local streets and major and prime arterials. Although some collector
roads serve as through routes, their primary function is to provide access from surrounding land
uses. The term “collector road” as used in this Policy is defined in the Encinitas General Plan,
Circulation Element, page C-18.

“collocation” means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6002(g), as may be
amended or superseded, which defines that term as mounting or installing an antenna facility on
a pre-existing structure and/or modifying a structure for the purpose of mounting or installing an
antenna facility on that structure. For clarification, the FCC defines the term “collocation” in two
contexts, one for small wireless facilities in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6002(g) and another for requests
pursuant to Section 6409 in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(2). This Policy uses the term “collocation” as
defined for small wireless facilities unless expressly provided otherwise.

“CPUC” means the California Public Utilities Commission established in the California
Constitution, Article XII, § 5, or its duly appointed successor agency.

“decorative pole" means any pole that includes decorative or ornamental features, design
elements and/or materials for aesthetic purposes.

“Director’ means the Director of Development Services Department or the Director's designee.

“FCC” means the Federal Communications Commission or its duly appointed successor agency.

“FCC Shot Clock” means the FCC's interpretation of presumptively reasonable time frame,
5|38



--- page 34 ---
accounting for any tolling or extension, within which the City generally must act on a request for
authorization in connection with a personal wireless service facility, as such time frame is defined
by the FCC and as may be amended or superseded. In the event that the FCC Shot Clock
becomes inapplicable or are extended for any reason, the timetables provided in this Policy, to
the extent determined by the FCC Shot Clock, shall also automatically become inapplicable or
extended.

“local street’ means streets designed to provide access to individual parcels in the City. Local
Streets consist of two lanes with a typical right-of-way width of 50-70 feet and a pavement width
of 40 feet. The term “local street” as used in this Policy is defined in the Encinitas General Plan,
Circulation Element, page C-18.

“major arterial" means a four-lane divided roadway, with a typical right-of-way width of 85-120
feet and a curb-to-curb pavement width of approximately 80 feet. The term “major arterial” as
used in this Policy is defined in the Encinitas General Plan, Circulation Element, page C-18.

“ministerial permit’ means any City-issued non-discretionary permit required to commence or
complete any construction or other activity subject to the City's jurisdiction. Ministerial permits
may include, without limitation, any building permit, construction permit, electrical permit,
encroachment permit, excavation permit, right-of-way utility permit, right-of-way construction
permit, traffic control permit and/or any similar over-the-counter approval issued by the City's
departments.

“OTARD’” means an “over-the-air reception device” and includes all antennas and antenna
supports covered by 47 C.F.R. § 1.4000(a)(1), as may be amended or superseded.

“personal wireless services” means the same as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(C)(i), as may
be amended or superseded.

“personal wireless service facilities" means the same as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(C)(i).
as may be amended or superseded.

“persons entitled to notice" means the record owners and legal occupants of all properties within
500 feet from the proposed project site. Notice to the legal occupants shall be deemed given when
sent to the property's physical address.

“prime arterial” means a six-lane divided roadway, with a typical right-of-way width of 120-130
feet and curb-to-curb pavement width of 100-110 feet. The term “prime arterial” as used in this
Policy is defined in the Encinitas General Plan, Circulation Element, page C-16.

“prohibited support structure” means any support structure on which the City prohibits the
deployment of wireless facilities, except when authorized as a pre-approved design pursuant to
this Policy. Prohibited support structures include decorative poles; traffic signal poles, cabinets or
related structures; new, nonreplacement wood poles; and any utility pole scheduled for removal
within 18 months from the time the Director acts on the ROW application for such pole.

“public right-of-way" or “public rights-of-way” means land or an interest in land which by deed,
conveyance, agreement, easement, dedication, usage or process of law is reserved for or
dedicated to or open to the use by the general public for road or highway purposes. The term
does not include private or public utility easements unless such easement is reserved for or
dedicated to or open to the use by the general public for road or highway purposes.

6| 38



--- page 35 ---
“RF” means radio frequency or electromagnetic waves.

“Section 6409” means Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of
2012, Pub. L. No. 112-96, 126 Stat. 156, codified as 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a), as may be amended
or superseded.

“shot clock days” means calendar days counted toward the presumptively reasonable time
under the applicable FCC Shot Clock. The term “shot clock days” does not include any calendar
days on which the FCC Shot Clock is tolled (i.e., “paused”). As an illustration and not a limitation,
if an applicant applies on April 1, receives a valid incomplete notice on April 5 and then resubmits
on April 20, only four “shot clock days" have elapsed because the time between the incomplete
notice and resubmittal are not counted.

“small wireless facility” means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6002(/), as may
be amended or superseded, and does not include any strand-mounted facilities commonly
installed on a strand, cable or line strung between one or more support structures.

“support structure” means a “structure” as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6002(m), as may
be amended or superseded.

“technically infeasible” means a circumstance in which the applicant has demonstrated by
applicable clear and convincing evidence (photos, technical data, etc.) that compliance with a
specific requirement within this Policy is physically impossible and not merely more difficult or
expensive than a noncompliant alternative. For example, the existence of a lease, lease option
or other agreement shall not be deemed to make other locations not subject to such agreements
technically infeasible.

“underground utility district” means any area in the City within which overhead wires, cables,
cabinets and associated overhead equipment, appurtenances and other improvements are either
(1) prohibited by ordinance, resolution or other applicable law; (2) scheduled to be relocated
underground within 18 months from the time an application is submitted: or (3) primarily located
underground at the time an application is submitted.

SECTION 4. APPLICABILITY

(a) Small Wireless Facilities. Except as expressly provided otherwise, the provisions in this
Policy shall be applicable to all existing small wireless facilities and all applications and
requests for authorization to construct, install, attach, operate, collocate, modify,
reconstruct, relocate, remove or otherwise deploy small wireless facilities within the public
rights-of-way within the City’s jurisdictional and territorial boundaries. The provisions of
this Policy shall apply to any applications received prior to the effective date of this Policy
to the extent permitted under applicable laws.

(b) Other Infrastructure Deployments. To the extent that other infrastructure deployments,
including without limitation any deployments that require approval pursuant to Encinitas
Municipal Code Chapter 15.04, involve the same or substantially similar structures,
apparatus, antennas, equipment, fixtures, cabinets, cables or improvements, the Director
or other official responsible to review and approve or deny requests for authorization in
connection with such other infrastructure deployment shall apply the provisions in this
Policy unless specifically prohibited by applicable law.



--- page 36 ---
(c)

City’s Proprietary Capacity. This Policy shall not limit the authority of the City to refuse
or otherwise condition approval of installation of a wireless facility on City property in its
proprietary capacity.

SECTION 5. REQUIRED PERMITS AND APPROVALS

(a)

(c)

ROW Administrative Design Review Permit. A “ROW administrative design review
permit” (“permit”), subject to the Director's review and approval in accordance with this
Policy, shall be required for all small wireless facilities and other infrastructure
deployments located in whole or in part within the public rights-of-way.

Exemptions. Notwithstanding anything in this Policy to the contrary, a ROW
administrative design review permit shall not be required for:

(1) wireless facilities or other infrastructure deployments owned and operated by the
City for its use;

(2) OTARD facilities; or

(3) requests for approval to collocate, replace or remove transmission equipment at
an existing wireless tower or base station submitted pursuant to Section 6409.

Other Permits and Approvals. In addition to a ROW administrative design review permit,
the applicant must obtain all other permits and regulatory approvals as may be required
by any other federal, state or local government agencies, which includes without limitation
any ministerial permits and/or other approvals issued by other City departments or
divisions. All applications for ministerial permits submitted in connection with a proposed
small wireless facility or other infrastructure deployment must contain a valid ROW
administrative design review permit issued by the City for the proposed facility. Any
application for any ministerial permit(s) submitted without such ROW administrative design
review permit may be denied without prejudice. Any ROW administrative design review
permit granted under this policy shall remain subject to all lawful conditions and/or legal
requirements associated with such other permits or approvals. Furthermore, and to avoid
potential confusion, an exemption from the ROW administrative design review permit
requirement under Subsection 5(b) does not exempt the same wireless facilities or other
infrastructure deployments from any other permits or approvals, which includes without
limitation any ministerial permits from the City.

SECTION 6. APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES

(a)

Application Requirements for Small Wireless Facilities. In addition to any other
publicly stated requirements, all ROW administrative design review permit applications for
small wireless facilities must include the following information and materials:

(1) Application Form. The applicant shall submit a complete, duly executed ROW
administrative design review permit application on the then-current form prepared
by the City. The applicant shall state which FCC Shot Clock it asserts will apply to
the proposed project and explain the basis for its assertion.

(2) Application Fee. The applicant shall submit the applicable ROW administrative
design review permit application fee adopted by City Council resolution. Batched

8/26



--- page 37 ---
(3)

(4)

(5)

applications must include the applicable ROW administrative design review permit
application fee for each small wireless facility in the batch. If no ROW
administrative design review permit application fee has been adopted, then the
applicant must submit a signed written statement that acknowledges that the
applicant will be required to submit a deposit estimated by the Director to
reimburse the City for its reasonable costs incurred in connection with the
application. Should the deposit be inadequate an additional deposit shall be
required. If the deposit exceeds the actual costs, the difference will be returned to
the applicant.

Construction Drawings. The applicant shall submit true and correct construction
drawings, prepared, signed and stamped by a licensed or registered engineer, that
depict all the existing and proposed improvements, equipment and conditions
related to the proposed project, which includes without limitation any and all poles,
posts, pedestals, traffic signals, towers, streets, sidewalks, pedestrian ramps,
driveways, curbs, gutters, drains, handholes, manholes, fire hydrants, equipment
cabinets, antennas, cables, trees and other landscape features. The construction
drawings must: (i) contain cut sheets that contain the technical specifications for
all existing and proposed antennas and accessory equipment, which includes
without limitation the manufacturer, model number and physical dimensions: (ii)
identify all potential support structures within 500 feet from the proposed project
site and call out such structures’ overall height above ground level: (iii) depict the
applicant's preliminary plan for electric and data backhaul utilities, which shall
include the anticipated locations for all conduits, cables, wires, handholes,
junctions, transformers, meters, disconnect switches, and points of connection;
and (iv) demonstrate that proposed project will be in full compliance with all
applicable health and safety laws, regulations or other rules, which includes
without limitation all building codes, fire codes, electric codes, local street
standards and specifications, and public utility regulations and orders.

Site Survey. For any small wireless facility, the applicant shall submit a survey
prepared, signed and stamped by a licensed or registered engineer. The survey
must identify and depict all existing boundaries, encroachments and other
structures within 75 feet from the proposed project site and any new
improvements, which includes without limitation all: (i) traffic lanes; (ii) all private
properties and property lines; (iii) above and below-grade utilities and related
structures and encroachments; (iv) fire hydrants, roadside call boxes and other
public safety infrastructure; (v) streetlights, decorative poles, traffic signals and
permanent signage; (vi) sidewalks, driveways, parkways, curbs, gutters and storm
drains; (vii) benches, trash cans, mailboxes, kiosks and other street furniture; and
(viii) existing trees, planters and other landscaping features.

Photo Simulations. The applicant shall submit site photographs and photo
simulations that show the existing location and proposed small wireless facility in
context from at least three vantage points within the public streets or other publicly
accessible spaces, together with a vicinity map that shows the proposed site
location and the photo location for each vantage point. At least one simulation must
depict the small wireless facility from a vantage point approximately 50 feet from
the proposed support structure or location. The photo simulations and vicinity map
shall be incorporated into the construction plans submitted with the application.
The photo simulations must show all required elements of the facility that will be
visible and shall be based on actual site photographs.

9138


--- page 38 ---
(6) Project Narrative and Justification. The applicant shall submit a written
statement that explains in plain factual detail whether and why the proposed facility
qualifies as a “small wireless facility" as defined by the FCC in 47 C.E.R. §
1.6002(1). A complete written narrative analysis will state the applicable standard
and all the facts that allow the City to conclude the standard has been met—bare
conclusions not factually supported do not constitute a complete written analysis.
As part of the written statement the applicant must also include (i) whether and
why the proposed support is a “structure” as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. §
1.6002(m); (ii) whether and why the proposed wireless facility meets each required
finding for a ROW administrative design review permit as provided in Subsection
8(b); (iii) analysis of all other technically feasible locations within or without the City
that could serve the area intended to be served by the facility; (iv) an inventory of
existing support structures within 500 feet of the location of the proposed site; (v)
if the applicant is not a wireless carrier, demonstrate a bona fide plan to actually
deploy facilities by the applicant for a specific third-party wireless tenant: (vi)
identification of each proposed lessee or owner of an antenna to be installed on
the facility; and (vii) a written report from a recognized fire safety specialist that
describes the potential fire hazards posed by the facility to surrounding vegetation
and/or structures, and any steps taken by the applicant to mitigate such hazards.

(A) | Master Plan. The project narrative shall also include a statement as to any
other planned deployments by the applicant within the City over the next
24-month period from the date of submittal. The master plan shall visually
depict all anticipated site locations and be accompanied by list of proposed
facilities including type of technology (cellular, PCS, ESMR, etc.), type of
service to be provided and purpose of the facility, anticipated date of
installation, address and zoning district of each site and site size and
topography, number of antennae and base stations per site and per carrier,
location (pole, roof, etc.) and type of antennae on each site, identity of
carriers that will occupy each site, any restrictions imposed by site owner,
RF range and wattage output of equipment, height of equipment, and
properties and rights of ways from which facilities will be visible. The master
plan list shall be provided to the City in a digital form in an Excel (or
equivalent) spreadsheet.

(B) Compliance with NEPA. All applications shall include confirmation that an
environmental assessment, or other application determination, has been
completed by or on behalf of the FCC for any facility proposed in a location
identified in 47 C.F.R. 1.307 (including a floodplain) or as otherwise
required by National Environmental Policy Act.

(7) RF Compliance Report. The applicant, and each intended owner or operator of
an antenna to be installed on the site, shall submit an RF exposure compliance
report that certifies under penalty of perjury that the proposed small wireless
facility, both individually and cumulatively with all other emitters that contribute
more than five percent to the cumulative emissions in the vicinity (if any), will
comply with applicable federal RF exposure standards and exposure limits. The
RF report must be prepared and certified by an RF engineer acceptable to the
Director. The RF report must include the actual frequency bands and power levels
(in watts effective radiated power) for all existing and proposed antennas at the
site and exhibits that show the location and orientation of all transmitting antennas

1038



--- page 39 ---
and the boundaries of areas with RF exposures in excess of the
uncontroiled/general population limit (as that term is defined by the FCC) and also
the boundaries of areas with RF exposures in excess of the
controlled/occupational limit (as that term is defined by the FCC). Each such
boundary shall be clearly marked and identified for every transmitting antenna at
the project site. If the applicant submits a batched application, a separate RF report
shall be prepared for each facility associated with the batch. All RF compliance
reports and the selection of circumference of the vicinity subject to testing shall be
reviewed and confirmed by a qualified professional retained by the City pursuant
to paragraph (h) below.

(8) Regulatory Authorization. The applicant shall submit evidence of the applicant's
regulatory status under federal and California law to provide the services and
construct the small wireless facility proposed in the application.

(9) Pole License Agreement. For any small wireless facility proposed to be installed
on any structure owned or controlled by the City and located within the public
rights-of-way, the applicant shall submit an executed Pole License Agreement on
a form prepared by the City that states the terms and conditions for such non-
exclusive use by the applicant. No changes shall be permitted to the City's Pole
License Agreement except as may be indicated on the form itself. Any unpermitted
changes to the City’s Pole License Agreement shall be deemed a basis to deem
the application incomplete. Refusal to accept the terms and conditions in the City's
Pole License Agreement shall be an independently sufficient basis to deny the
application without prejudice.

(10) Property Owner’s Authorization. The applicant must submit a written
authorization from the support structure owner(s) that authorizes the applicant to
submit and accept a ROW administrative design review permit in connection with
the subject structure.

(11) Acoustic Analysis. The applicant shall submit an acoustic analysis prepared and |
certified by a licensed engineer for the proposed small wireless facility and all
associated equipment including all environmental control units, sump pumps,
temporary backup power generators and permanent backup power generators
demonstrating compliance with the City’s noise regulations. The acoustic analysis
must also include an analysis of the manufacturers’ specifications for all noise-
emitting equipment and a depiction of the proposed equipment relative to all
adjacent property lines.

(12) Structural Analysis. The applicant shall submit a report prepared and certified by
an engineer licensed by the State of California (or other qualified personnel
acceptable to the City) that evaluates whether the underlying pole or support
structure has the structural integrity to support all the proposed equipment and
attachments. At a minimum, the analysis must be consistent with all applicable
requirements in CPUC General Order 95 (including, but not limited to, load and
pole overturning calculations), the National Electric Safety Code, the standards
and practices required for an ANSI/TIA-222 Maintenance and Conditions
Assessment (under the most current revision at the time of submittal) and any
safety and construction standards required by law and the utility provider. The

11138


--- page 40 ---
(13)

(14)

(15)

report shall contain tolerances including but not limited to guy tensions if
applicable, plumb, twist, slip splices and take-up devices.

(A) Residents of the City increasingly rely on wireless service (texting, voice,
VOIP) to receive emergency notifications and communicate with family
members during emergencies. Therefore, wireless facilities must be
designed to remain resilient during outages, earthquakes and extreme
weather events. Consequently, applicants shail (1) provide a certificate
from a structural engineer licensed by the State, or other appropriate
licensed professional acceptable to the Director, that (i), when fully loaded
with antennas, transmitters, and other equipment and camouflaging the
facility is designed to withstand the forces expected during the maximum
credible earthquake and maximum credible wind speeds, and (ii)
components, and the all connections between various components of the
facility and with necessary power and utility lines, are designed to be
protected against damage by “100-year” flooding, historical maximum
ambient temperature sustained over the maximum credible duration, area
maximum credible high wind, maximum credible earthquake, lightning
strike and power surge events; (2) provide a diagram detailing buildings
and other features located in fall zones or launch distances of components
in the event of facility failure due to high wind or ground movement; (3)
detailed description of measures taken on a network-wide basis, including
backup power coverage for a portion of regional macro facilities, to ensure
that basic communication service is available in the event of a disaster or
power loss, (4) detailed description of the failure or outage history of facility
components or similar systems (such as during SDG&E and PG&E power
shutoffs in October and November 2019) operated by the operator on
whose behalf the application is submitted; and (5) detailed description of
hazards posed by the facility in the event of failure due to flood, high wind,
high heat, earthquake, outage, lightning strike or wildfire.

Environmental Impact Assessment. The applicant shall submit an
environmental impact assessment on the then-current form prepared by the City
to determine whether the proposed project is categorically exempt under Article 19
of the CEQA Guidelines, or whether the proposed project will require a Negative
Declaration, Mitigated Negative Declaration or an Environmental Impact Report.

Landscape Plan. A landscape plan shall be submitted with project application
submittal indicating all existing vegetation that is to be retained on the site and any
additional vegetation that is needed to satisfactorily screen the facility from
adjacent land uses in public view areas. That landscape plan shall conform to all
the requirements set forth in this Policy and the City landscape guidelines manual
as required by City of Encinitas Municipal Code Section 23.24.190 as they may be
amended or superseded. The landscape plan shall also include a tree protection
plan prepared by a certified arborist and specify measures to protect trees during
project construction and/or improvement.

Exception Request. Any application that involves a request for an exception
pursuant to Section 13 of this Policy shall include a written statement in a separate
document that includes all the following information: (i) whether the applicant seeks
an exception pursuant to Subsections 13(b)(1), 13(b)(2) or both; (ii) the specific
provision(s) and/or requirement(s) in this Policy from which the applicant seeks an

12|38



--- page 41 ---
exception; (iii) the specific provision(s) of federal or state law under which the
applicant seeks an exception: (iv) the standard of evidence applicable to each
specific provision(s) of federal or state law under which the applicant seeks an
exception; (v) a statement of the factual evidence that supports the findings for the
exception requested; (vi) a statement that describes the extent of the exception
required and the factual evidence to show the exception would be narrowly tailored
in compliance with Subsection 13(g); and (vii) any other information the applicant
believes relevant to the issues raised in the exception request. Given the short
timeframe in which the City must review the application and the deployment
volume anticipated by both the FCC and wireless industry, this written statement
must be included with the initial submittal to afford City staff a reasonable time to
act on the application. Any request by the applicant to consider an exception after
the initial submittal shall be treated as a new application.

(16) Truth and Accuracy Statement. Any application submitted pursuant to this Policy
shall be signed by the applicant, or a person knowledgeable about the proposed
facility and authorized to act on the applicant's behalf, attesting, that under penalty
of perjury, that all information, representations and disclosures in the application
are true, correct and complete.

(b) Voluntary Pre-submittal Meetings.

(1) Pre-submittal Conference. The City strongly encourages, but does not require,
applicants to schedule and attend a pre-submittal conference with the Director and
other City staff. This voluntary, pre-submittal conference does not cause the FCC Shot
Clock to begin and is intended to streamline the review process through collaborative,
informal discussion that includes, without limitation, the appropriate project
Classification and review process; any latent issues in connection with the proposed
project and/or project site, including compliance with generally applicable rules for
public health and safety; potential concealment issues or concerns (if applicable):
coordination with other City departments implicated by the proposed project; and
application completeness issues. Pre-submittal conferences are especially
encouraged when an applicant seeks to submit one or more batched applications so
that the Director may advise the applicant about any staffing, scheduling or unusual
circumstances or issues that may hinder the City's ability to meet the presumptively
reasonable timeframes under the FCC Shot Clock. To mitigate unnecessary delays
due to application incompleteness, applicants are encouraged (but not required) to
bring any draft applications, plans, maps or other materials so that City staff may
provide informal feedback and guidance about whether such applications or other
materials may be incomplete or unacceptable in their then-current form. The Director
will use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with an appointment within
approximately five working days after receiving a written request and any applicable
fee or deposit to reimburse the City for its reasonable costs to provide the staff and/or
consulting time and services rendered in the pre-submittal conference.

(2) Community Meeting. The City also strongly encourages, but does not require,
applicants to schedule, notice, arrange, and attend a pre-submittal community meeting
with all interested members of the public. This voluntary, pre-submittal public meeting
does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin and is intended to give applicants the
opportunity to hear from members of the public regarding proposed deployment.
Applicants are encouraged (but not required) to bring any draft applications, plans,
maps, presentations or other materials to facilitate the public's understanding of the

seeps


--- page 42 ---
applicant's proposal. The City seeks to encourage dialogue that may allow applicants
to address areas of concern and may lessen the likelihood of appeals of the Director's
decision to the City Council by any interested person or entity.

(c) Submittal Appointments. All applications must be submitted in person to the City at a
pre-scheduled appointment with the Director. Prospective applicants may generally
submit one application per appointment, or up to five individual applications per
appointment as a batch. Potential applicants may schedule successive appointments for
multiple applications whenever feasible and not prejudicial to other applicants for any other
development project as determined by the Director. The Director shall use reasonable
efforts to offer an appointment within five working days after the Director receives a written
request from a potential applicant. Any purported application received without an
appointment, whether delivered in-person, by mail or through any other means, will not be
considered duly filed, whether the City retains, returns or destroys the materials received.

(d) On-Site Inspection. A physical inspection by City staff or the City’s designee may be
required for any application that involves: (i) a new facility on a new or replacement
Structure; (ii) any modification to an existing facility if no physical inspection has occurred
in the last 12-month period; (iii) any request for an exception pursuant to Section 13 of this
Policy. This paragraph does not limit the City's ability to conduct inspections at the
Director's discretion.

(e) Incomplete Applications Deemed Withdrawn. Any application governed under this
Policy shall be automatically deemed withdrawn by the applicant when the applicant fails
to submit a substantive response to the Director within 60 calendar days after the Director
deems the application incomplete by written notice. As used in this Subsection (e), a
“substantive response” must include, at a minimum, the complete materials identified as
incomplete in the written incomplete notice.

(f) Additional Administrative Requirements and Regulations. The City Council
authorizes the Director to develop, publish and from time to time update or amend permit
application requirements, forms, checklists, guidelines, informational handouts and other
related materials that the Director finds necessary, appropriate or useful for processing
any application governed under this policy so long as such updates or amendments do
not diminish any requirement provided in this Policy. The City Council further authorizes
the Director to establish other reasonable rules and regulations for duly filed applications,
which may include without limitation regular hours for appointments and/or submittals
without appointments, as the Director deems necessary or appropriate to organize,
document and manage the application intake process. All such requirements, materials,
rules and regulations must be in written form and publicly stated to provide all interested
parties with prior notice.

(g) Fire Department Review. After submittal by the applicant, the Director shall transmit the
entire application packet to the Fire Prevention Division. The Fire Chief shall review the
application for compliance with objective health and safety standards related to fire
hazards, including but not limited to all applicable provisions in Title 10 of the Encinitas
Municipal Code. The Fire Chief shall inform the Director in writing of its conclusions and
any recommended conditions for public health and safety.

(h) Peer and Independent Consultant Review. The City Council authorizes the Director to,
in the Director's discretion, select and retain an independent consultant with specialized

14} 38



--- page 43 ---
training, experience and/or expertise in telecommunications issues satisfactory to the
Director in connection any permit application. The Director may request an independent
consultant review on any issue that involves specialized or expert knowledge in
connection with wireless facilities deployment or permit applications for wireless facilities,
which include without limitation: (a) permit application completeness and/or accuracy,
including performing a drive test or other form of reception testing to determine whether
the proposed facility is necessary to achieve the applicant's objectives as may be required
in order to determine the necessity of an exception pursuant to Section 13; (b) pre-
construction planned compliance with applicable regulations for human exposure to RF
emissions; (Cc) post-construction actual compliance with applicable regulations for human
exposure to RF emissions; (d) whether and to what extent a proposed project will comply
with applicable laws; (e) the applicability, reliability and/or sufficiency of any information,
analyses or methodologies used by the applicant to reach any conclusions about any
issue with the City's discretion to review; and (f) any other issue identified by the Director
that requires expert or specialized knowledge-, including without timitation any issues
related to an exception requested by the applicant pursuant to Section 13 of this Policy.
Until such time as the City hires staff possessing specialized expertise described in this
paragraph, the City generally may be required to hire an independent consultant in
connection with any application. The Director may request that the independent consultant
prepare written reports, testify at public meetings, hearings and/or appeals and attend
meetings with City staff and/or the applicant. Subject to applicable law, in the event that
the Director elects to retain an independent consultant in connection with any permit
application, the applicant shall be responsible for the reasonable costs in connection with
the services provided, which may include without limitation any costs incurred by the
independent consultant to attend and participate in any meetings or hearings. Before the
independent consultant may perform any services, the applicant shall tender to the City a
deposit in an amount equal to the estimated cost for the services to be provided, as
determined by the Director until the City adopts the initial required deposit by fee schedule.
The Director may request additional deposits as reasonably necessary to ensure sufficient
funds are available to cover the reasonable costs in connection with the independent
consultant's services. In the event that the deposit exceeds the total costs for consultant's
services, the Director shall promptly return any unused funds to the applicant after the
wireless facility has been installed and passes a final inspection by the Director or his or
her designee. In the event that the reasonable costs for the independent consultant's
services exceed the deposit, the Director shall invoice the applicant for the balance. The
City shall not issue any construction or encroachment permit to any applicant with any
unpaid deposit requests or invoices. In addition, the Fire Chief (or his or her designee) has
the explicit authority to select and retain an independent consultant with expertise and/or
specialized training in fire safety and fire hazard mitigation and prevention satisfactory to
the Fire Chief in connection with any permit application. The Fire Chief may request
independent consultant review on any matter committed to Fire Department review or
approval. Subject to applicable law, in the event that the Fire Chief elects to retain an
independent consultant in connection with any permit application, the applicant shall be
responsible for the reasonable costs in connection with the services provided, which may
include without limitation any costs incurred by the independent consultant to attend and
participate in any meetings or hearings. The same procedures for fee deposits. cost
reimbursements and refunds to the applicant as described above shall be applicable to
independent consultant review required by the Fire Chief.

Batched Applications. Applicants may submit up to five individual applications for a small
wireless facility permit in a batch; provided, however, that small wireless facilities in a
batch must be proposed with substantially the same equipment in the same configuration

15|38



--- page 44 ---
(j)

on the same support structure type. Each application in a batch must meet all the
requirements for a complete application, which includes without limitation the application
fee for each application in the batch. !f any application in a batch is incomplete, the
Director, in the Director's discretion, shall determine whether the entire batch shall be
deemed incomplete. If any application is withdrawn or deemed withdrawn from a batch,
the Director shall determine whether the entire batch shall be deemed withdrawn. If any
application in a batch fails to meet the required findings for approval, the Director shall
Determine whether the entire batch shall be denied.

City Staff Time for Review. City staff, including the Fire Prevention Division, shall take
the appropriate amount of time necessary to complete review of an application. If it is
anticipated that additional time is required, staff should document the unusual
circumstances justifying additional time and the Director should contact the applicant to
attempt to enter into a tolling agreement to avoid legal uncertainty.

SECTION 7. PUBLIC NOTICES

(a)

(b)

(c)

Application Submittal Notice. Within 3 business days after an application is received
and prior to any approval, conditional approval or denial, the City shall mail public notice
to all persons entitled to notice. The notice must contain: (1) a general project description;
(2) the applicant's identification and contact information as provided on the application
submitted to the City; (3) contact information for the Director for interested parties to submit
comments; (4) a statement that the Director will act on the application without a public
hearing but that any interested person or entity may appeal the Director's decision directly
to the City Council; (5) if the application is for a small wireless facility, a general statement
that the FCC requires the City to take final action on such applications within 60 days for
collocations and 90 days for facilities on new support structures; and (6) a statement that
any person that wishes to seek a reasonable accommodation under the Americans with
Disabilities Act, Fair Housing Act Amendments of 1988, or other applicable state or federal
law may do so in accordance with the City’s standard disability accommodation process
and such requests shal! be kept confidential per California Code of Regulations, Title 2,
Section 12176(b). Within 3 business days of the City's mailing of the above public notice,
the applicant, with the approval from the proposed site owner, shall provide proof to the
City that the applicant posted a copy of the above public notice on the proposed site.

Public Information. Individuals desiring to receive e-mail notifications regarding pending
and completed applications may do so by email request to the Development Services
Department. Information regarding the location and status of proposed and active wireless
facilities, and applicant contact information and applicable City code enforcement
personnel, shall also be posted the City’s website.

Application Decision Notice. Within five calendar days after the Director acts on a ROW
administrative design review permit application, the Director shall provide written notice to
the applicant and all persons entitled to notice. If the Director denies an application (with
or without prejudice) for a small wireless facility, the written notice must also contain the
reasons for the denial.

16]36


--- page 45 ---
SECTION 8. DECISIONS

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

Initial Administrative Decision. Not more than 29 shot clock days after the application
has been deemed complete, the Director shall approve, conditionally approve or deny a
complete and duly filed ROW administrative design review permit application without a
public hearing. Failure of the Director to comply with the timetable in this paragraph shall
not affect the Director's authority to approve or deny any permit.

Required Findings for Approval. The Director may approve or conditionally approve a
complete and duly filed application for a ROW administrative design review permit when
the Director finds:

(1) the proposed project complies with all applicable design and location standards in
this Policy and all applicable laws;

(2) the proposed project would be in the most preferred location pursuant to Section
10(b) within 500 feet from the proposed site in any direction or the applicant has
demonstrated with clear and convincing evidence in the written record that any
more-preferred location(s) within 500 feet would be technically infeasible;

(3) the proposed project would not be located on a prohibited support structure
identified in this Policy;

(4) the proposed project would be on the most preferred support structure within 500
feet from the proposed site in any direction or the applicant has demonstrated with
clear and convincing evidence in the written record that any more-preferred
support structure(s) within 500 feet would be technically infeasible;

(5) if the proposed project involves a wireless facility, the proposed project fits within
the definition for a “small wireless facility” as defined by the FCC:

(6) if the proposed project involves a wireless facility, the applicant has demonstrated
that the proposed project will be in planned compliance with all applicable FCC
regulations and guidelines for human exposure to RF emissions;

(7) the proposed project has been reviewed and approved or conditionally approved
by the Fire Chief in accordance with Section 6(g) of this Policy;

(8) all public notices required for the application have been given; and

(9) the applicant provided a complete application or the application was deemed
complete by operation of law.

Conditional Approvals; Denials Without Prejudice. Subject to any applicable federal
or California laws, nothing in this Policy is intended to limit the Director’s ability to
conditionally approve or deny without prejudice any ROW administrative design review
permit application as may be necessary or appropriate to ensure compliance with this
Policy.

Appeals. Any interested person or entity may appeal the decision by the Director to the
City Council; provided, however, that appeals from an approval shall not be permitted

17|38


--- page 46 ---
when based solely on the environmental effects from RF emissions that are compliant with
applicable FCC regulations and guidelines. An appeal notice must be filed within seven
calendar days after the date on the Director's decision notice. The notice must contain a
short and plain statement about the basis for the appeal, which may be supplemented
after the notice period has expired but before the appeal hearing. The City Council shall
hear appeals de novo and issue the applicant and any person entitled to notice a written
decision within five calendar days after the appeal hearing. If the City Council denies the
application on appeal (whether by affirmation or reversal), the written notice shall contain
the reasons for the decision.

SECTION 9. CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL

(a)

Standard Conditions. Except as may be authorized in subsection (b), all ROW
administrative design review permits issued under this Policy shall be automatically
subject to the conditions in this subsection (a).

(1) Permit Term. This permit will automatically expire 10 years and one day from its
issuance unless California Government Code § 65964(b) authorizes the City to
establish a shorter term for public safety reasons. Any other permits or approvals
issued in connection with any collocation, modification or other change to this
wireless facility, which includes without limitation any permits or other approvals
deemed-granted or deemed-approved under federal or state law, will not extend
this term limit unless expressly provided otherwise in such permit or approval or
required under federal or state law. The Director may establish a shorter permit
term if (i) the Fire Chief concludes that the proposed wireless facility presents a
potential fire hazard and (ii) the potential fire hazard cannot be mitigated by
changes to the facility or other conditions.

(2) Permit Renewal. The permittee may apply for permit renewal not more than one
year before this ROW administrative design review permit expires. The permittee
must demonstrate that the subject small wireless facility or other infrastructure
deployment complies with all the conditions of approval associated with this ROW
administrative design review permit and all applicable provisions in the Encinitas
Municipal Code and this Policy that exists at the time the decision to renew or not
renew is rendered. The Director may modify or amend the conditions on a case-
by-case basis as may be necessary or appropriate to ensure compliance with the
Encinitas Municipal Code, this Policy or other applicable flaw. Upon renewal, this
ROW administrative design review permit will automatically expire 10 years and
one day from its issuance unless issued for a shorter term pursuant to Section

9(a)(1).

(3) Post-installation Certification. Within 60 calendar days after the permittee
commences full, unattended operations of a small wireless facility or other
infrastructure deployment approved or deemed-approved. the permittee shall
provide the Director with documentation reasonably acceptable to the Director that
the small wireless facility or other infrastructure deployment has been installed
and/or constructed in strict compliance with the approved construction drawings
and photo simulations. Such documentation shall include without limitation as-built
drawings, GIS data and site photographs and may be reviewed for compliance by
an independent consultant retained by the City pursuant to Section 6(h).

18[35


--- page 47 ---
(5)

Build-Out Period. This ROW administrative design review permit will
automatically expire 12 months from the approval date (the “build-out period”)
unless the permittee obtains all other permits and approvals required to install,
construct and/or operate the approved small wireless facility or other infrastructure
deployment, which includes without limitation any permits or approvals required by
any federal, state or local public agencies with jurisdiction over the subject
property, support structure or the small wireless facility or other infrastructure
deployment and its use. The permittee may request in writing, and the City may
grant in writing, one six-month extension if the permittee submits substantial and
reliable written evidence demonstrating justifiable cause for a six-month extension.
If the build-out period and any extension finally expire, the permit shall be
automatically void but the permittee may resubmit a complete application,
including all application fees, for the same or substantially similar project.

Site Maintenance. The permittee shall keep the site, which includes without
limitation any and all improvements, equipment, structures, access routes, fences
and landscape features, in a neat, clean and safe condition in accordance with the
approved construction drawings and all conditions in this ROW administrative
design review permit. The permittee shall keep the site area free from all litter and
debris at all times. The permittee, at no cost to the City, shall remove and
remediate any graffiti or other vandalism at the site within 48 hours after the
permittee receives notice or otherwise becomes aware that such graffiti or other
vandalism occurred. All portions of the facility where the RF emission levels are in
compliance with FCC “occupational/controlled exposure" leveis but exceeded FCC
“general population/uncontroliled exposure” levels must be marked with the
appropriate signage.

Compliance with Laws. The permittee shall maintain compliance at all times with
all federal, state and local statutes, regulations, orders or other rules that carry the
force of law (“laws") applicable to the permittee, the subject property, the small
wireless facility or other infrastructure deployment or any use or activities in
connection with the use authorized in this ROW administrative design review
permit, which includes without limitation any laws applicable to human exposure
to RF emissions and any standards, specifications or other requirements identified
by the Director (such as, without limitation, those requirements affixed to an
encroachment permit). If the Director at any time finds good cause to believe that
the facility is not in compliance with any laws applicable to human exposure to RF
emissions, the Director may (a) require the permittee to submit a written report
certified by a qualified radio frequency engineer familiar with the facility that
certifies that the facility is in compliance with all such laws; or (b) require that an
RF field test be conducted by an independent consultant (see Section 6(h)) without
notice to the permittee, the cost of which shall be borne by the permittee. The
Director shall require an onsite compliance test in situations where applicable
federal laws would authorize the City to require an such testing at the permittee's
expense. All on-site tests for compliance with the FCC’s RF exposure regulations
shall be conducted: (1) by an independent third party selected by the Director; (2)
at random times, except when the test is conducted prior to unattended operation
in which case the test will be at a time when the facility is operated at maximum
power; and (3) using state-of-the-art methods and instruments appropriate for the
technology involved. The Director may order the facility to be immediately powered
down if, based on objective evidence, the Director finds that the facility is in fact
not in compliance with any laws applicable including laws applicable to RF

19| 38


--- page 48 ---
(8)

emissions until such time that the permittee demonstrates actual compliance with
such laws. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that this obligation
is intended to be broadly construed and that no other specific requirements in
these conditions are intended to reduce, relieve or otherwise lessen the permittee’s
obligations to maintain compliance with all laws. No failure or omission by the City
to timely notice, prompt or enforce compliance with any applicable provision in the
Encinitas Municipal Code, this Policy, any permit, any permit condition or any
applicable law or regulation, shall be deemed to relieve, waive or lessen the
permittee’s obligation to comply in all respects with all applicable provisions in the
Encinitas Municipal Code, this Policy, any permit, any permit condition or any
applicable law or regulation.

(A) Copies of CPUC Notification Letters. Within 15 business days of
issuance of permit, permittee shall serve of copies of California Public
Utility Commission notification letters to City Clerk, Director and City
Manager, as required by CPUC General Order No. 159A § (IV)(C)(2)
unless otherwise exempted pursuant to CPUC General Order No. 159A §
(IV¥)(D).

Adverse Impacts on Other Properties. The permittee shall use all reasonable
efforts to avoid any and all unreasonable, undue or unnecessary adverse impacts
on nearby properties that may arise from the permittee’s or its authorized
personnel's construction, installation, operation, modification, maintenance, repair,
removal and/or other activities on or about the site. The permittee shall not perform
or cause others to perform any construction, installation, operation, modification,
maintenance, repair, removal or other work that involves heavy equipment or
machines except during normal construction work hours authorized by the
Encinitas Municipal Code. The restricted work hours in this condition will not
prohibit any work required to prevent an actual, immediate harm to property or
persons, or any work during an emergency declared by the City or other state or
federal government agency or official with authority to declare an emergency within
the City. The Director may issue a stop work order for any activities that violates
this condition in whole or in part. If the Director finds good cause to believe that
ambient noise from a facility violates applicable provisions in the Encinitas
Municipal Code. the Director may, in addition to any other actions or remedies
authorized by the permit, the Encinitas Municipal Code or other applicable laws,
require the permittee to commission a noise study by a qualified professional to
evaluate the facility's compliance. The permittee shall, at its sole cost and expense,
repair and restore any and all damages to public and private properties that result
from any activities performed in connection with the installation or maintenance of
a small wireless facility in the public right-of-way. The permittee shall restore such
areas, structures and systems to the condition in which they existed prior to the
installation or maintenance that necessitated the repairs. In the event the permittee
fails to complete such repair within the number of days stated on a written notice
by the City Manager or designee, the City Manager or designee shall cause such
repair to be completed at permittee’s sole cost and expense.

Permittee Cooperation. Permittee agrees to promptly cooperate with the City in
assisting the City to achieve its accommodation obligations under the Americans
with Disabilities Act, the Fair Housing Act Amendments of 1988 and other
applicable laws.

20,36


--- page 49 ---
(10)

(11)

Inspections; Emergencies. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees
that the City’s officers, officials, staff, agents, contractors or other designees may
enter onto the site and inspect the improvements and equipment upon reasonable
prior notice to the permittee. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, the City’s officers,
officials, staff, agents, contractors or other designees may, but will not be obligated
to, enter onto the site area without prior notice to support, repair, disable or remove
any improvements or equipment in emergencies or when such improvements or
equipment threatens actual, imminent harm to property or persons. The permittee,
if present, may observe the City's officers, officials, staff or other designees while
any such inspection or emergency access occurs.

Permittee's Contact Information. Prior to final inspection and at all times relevant
to this permit, the permittee shall keep on file with the Director basic contact and
site information on a form to be supplied by the City. This information shall include,
but is not limited to, the following: (a) the name, physical address, notice address
(if different), direct telephone number and email address for (i) the permittee and,
if different from the permittee, the (ii) site operator, (ii) equipment owner, (iii) site
manager and (iv) agent for service of process; (b) the regulatory authorizations
held by the permittee and, to the extent applicable, site operator, equipment owner
and site manager as may be necessary for the facility's continued operation: (c)
the facility’s site identification number and/or name used by the permittee and, to
the extent applicable, site operator, equipment owner and site manager; and (d) a
toll-free telephone number to the facility's network operations center where a live
person with power-down control over the facility is available 24 hours-per-day,
seven days-per-week. Within 10 business days after a written request by the City,
the permittee shall furnish the City with an updated form that includes all the most-
current information described in this condition.

indemnification. The permittee, each owner or operator of an antenna on the
facility, and, if applicable, the property owner upon which the small wireless facility
or other infrastructure deployment is installed shall defend, indemnify and hold
harmless the City, City Council and the City's boards, commissions, agents,
officers, officials, employees and volunteers (collectively, the “indemnitees") from
any and all (i) damages, liabilities, injuries, losses, costs and expenses and from
any and all claims (including claims on the basis of RF emissions). demands, law
suits, writs and other actions or proceedings (“claims”) brought against the
indemnitees to challenge, attack, seek to modify, set aside, void or annul the City’s
approval of this ROW administrative design review permit, and (ii) other claims of
any kind or form, whether for personal injury, death or property damage, that arise
from or in connection with the permittee’s or its agents’, directors’, officers’,
employees’, contractors’, subcontractors’, licensees’ or customers’ acts or
omissions in connection with this ROW administrative design review permit or the
small wireless facility claims (including claims on the basis of RF emissions) or
other infrastructure deployment. In the event the City becomes aware of any
claims, the City will use best efforts to promptly notify the permittee and the private
property owner (if applicable) and shall reasonably cooperate in the defense. The
permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the City shal! have the right to
approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, the legal counsel
providing the City’s defense, and the property owner and/or permittee (as
applicable) shall promptly reimburse the City for any costs and expenses directly
and necessarily incurred by the City in the course of the defense. The permittee
expressly acknowledges and agrees that the permittee’s indemnification

21138


--- page 50 ---
(12)

(14)

obligations under this condition are a material consideration that motivates the City
to approve this ROW administrative design review permit, and that such
indemnification obligations will survive the expiration, revocation or other
termination of this ROW administrative design review permit.

Performance Bond. Before the City issues any permits required to commence
construction in connection with this permit, the permittee shall post a performance
bond from a surety and in a form acceptable to the Director in an amount
reasonably necessary to cover the cost to remove the improvements and restore
all affected areas based on a written estimate from a qualified contractor with
experience in wireless facilities or other infrastructure removal. The written
estimate must include the cost to remove all equipment and other improvements,
which includes without limitation all antennas, radios, batteries, generators,
utilities, cabinets, mounts, brackets, hardware, cables, wires, conduits, structures,
shelters, towers, poles, footings and foundations, whether above ground or below
ground, constructed or installed in connection with the wireless facility, plus the
cost to completely restore any areas affected by the removal work to a standard
compliant with applicable laws. In establishing or adjusting the bond amount
required under this condition, the Director shall take into consideration any
information provided by the permittee regarding the cost to remove the small
wireless facility or other infrastructure deployment to a standard compliant with
applicable laws. The performance bond shall expressly survive the duration of the
permit term to the extent required to effectuate a complete removal of the subject
wireless facility or other infrastructure deployment in accordance with this
condition.

Permit Revocation. Any permit granted under this Policy may be revoked in
accordance with the provisions and procedures in this condition. The Director may
initiate revocation proceedings when the Director has information that the
permittee made material changes to any part of the facility without the City’s prior
written authorization or that the facility may not be in compliance with all applicable
laws, which includes without limitation, any permit in connection with the facility
and any associated conditions with such permit(s). Before any public hearing to
revoke a permit granted under this Policy, the Director must issue a written notice
to the permittee that specifies (i) the facility; (ii) the violation(s) to be corrected: (iii)
the timeframe in which the permittee must correct such violation(s); and (iv) that,
in addition to all other rights and remedies the City may pursue, the City may initiate
revocation proceedings for failure to correct such violation(s). A permit granted
under this Policy may be revoked only by the City Council after a duly notice public
hearing. The Director shall provide at least 10 days’ prior written notice of such
public hearing to residents and property owners within 500 feet from the facility.
The City Council may revoke a permit when it finds substantial evidence in the
written record to show that the facility is not in compliance with any applicable laws,
which includes without limitation, any permit in connection with the facility and any
associated conditions with such permit(s). Any decision by the City Council to
revoke or not revoke a permit shall be final and not subject to any further appeals.
Within five business days after the City Council adopts a resolution to revoke a
permit, the Director shall provide the permittee with a written notice that specifies
the revocation and the reasons for such revocation.

Record Retention. Throughout the permit term, the permittee must maintain a
complete and accurate copy of the written administrative record, which includes


--- page 51 ---
(15)

(16)

(17)

without limitation the ROW administrative design review permit application, ROW
administrative design review permit, the approved plans and photo simulations
incorporated into this approval, all conditions associated with this approval, any
ministerial permits or approvals issued in connection with this approval and any
records, memoranda, documents, papers and other correspondence entered into
the public record in connection with the ROW administrative design review permit
(collectively, “records’). If the permittee does not maintain such records as required
in this condition, any ambiguities or uncertainties that would be resolved by
inspecting the missing records will be construed against the permittee. The
permittee shall protect all records from damage from fires, floods and other
hazards that may cause deterioration. The permittee may keep records in an
electronic format; provided, however, that hard copies or electronic records kept in
the City’s regular files will control over any conflicts between such City-controlled
copies or records and the permittee’s electronic copies, and complete originals will
control over all other copies in any form. The requirements in this condition shall
not be construed to create any obligation to create or prepare any records not
otherwise required to be created or prepared by other applicable laws. Compliance
with the requirements in this condition shall not excuse the permittee from any
other similar record-retention obligations under applicable law.

Abandoned Facilities. The small wireless facility or other infrastructure
deployment authorized under this ROW administrative design review permit shall
be deemed abandoned if not operated for any continuous six-month period. Within
90 days after a small wireless facility or other infrastructure deployment is
abandoned or deemed abandoned, the permittee and/or property owner shall
completely remove the small wireless facility or other infrastructure deployment
and ail related improvements and shall restore all affected areas to a condition
compliant with all applicable laws, which includes without limitation the Encinitas
Municipal Code. In the event that neither the permittee nor the property owner
complies with the removal and restoration obligations under this condition within
said 90-day period, the City shall have the right (but not the obligation) to perform
such removal and restoration with or without notice, and the permittee and property
owner shall be jointly and severally liable for all costs and expenses incurred by
the City in connection with such removal and/or restoration activities. A permittee
shail respond within 15 days in writing to any City inquiry regarding the continued
operational status of any facility. Additionally, on or before January 30" of each
calendar year, the permittee shall provide the City with a list of all currently
operational facilities within the City.

Landscaping. The permittee shall abide by the landscape plan submitted
pursuant to Section 6(a)(14) and shall replace and be responsible for the
maintenance of any landscape features damaged or displaced by the construction,
installation, operation, maintenance or other work performed by the permittee or
at the permittee’s direction on or about the site in accordance with Section 11(e).

Cost Reimbursement. The permittee acknowledges and agrees that (i) the
permittee’s request for authorization to construct, install and/or operate the
wireless facility will cause the City to incur costs and expenses: (ii) the permittee
shall be responsible to reimburse the City for all costs incurred in connection with
the permit, which includes without limitation costs related to application review,
permit issuance, site inspection and any other costs reasonably related to or

23138


--- page 52 ---
(18)

(19)

(20)

caused by the request for authorization to construct, install and/or operate the
wireless facility or other infrastructure deployment; (iii) any application fees
required for the application may not cover all such reimbursable costs and that the
permittee shall have the obligation to reimburse the City for all such costs 10 days
after a written demand for reimbursement and reasonable documentation to
support such costs; and (iv) the City shall have the right to withhold any permits or
other approvals in connection with the wireless facility until and unless any
outstanding costs have been reimbursed to the City by the permittee.

Future Undergrounding Programs. Notwithstanding any term remaining on any
ROW administrative design review permit, if other utilities or communications
providers in the public rights-of-way underground their facilities in the segment of
the public rights-of-way where the permittee’s small wireless facility or other
infrastructure deployment is located. the permittee must also underground its
equipment, except the antennas and any approved electric meter, at approximately
the same time. Accessory equipment such as radios and computers that require
an environmentally controlled underground vault to function shall not be exempt
from this condition. Small wireless facilities and other infrastructure deployments
installed on wood utility poles that will be removed pursuant to the undergrounding
program may be reinstalled on a streetlight that complies with the City’s standards
and specifications. Such undergrounding shall occur at the permittee’s sole cost
and expense except as may be reimbursed through tariffs approved by the state
public utilities commission for undergrounding costs.

Electric Meter Upgrades. If the commercial electric utility provider adopts or
changes its rules obviating the need for a separate or ground-mounted electric
meter and enclosure, the permittee on its own initiative and at its sole cost and
expense shall remove the separate or ground-mounted electric meter and
enclosure. Prior to removing the electric meter, the permittee shall apply for any
encroachment and/or other ministerial permit(s) required to perform the removal.
Upon removal, the permittee shall restore the affected area to its original condition
that existed prior to installation of the equipment.

Rearrangement and Relocation. The permittee acknowledges that the City, in its
sole discretion and at any time, may: (A) change any street grade, width or location;
(B) add, remove or otherwise change any improvements in, on, under or along any
street owned by the City or any other public agency, which includes without
limitation any sewers, storm drains, conduits, pipes, vaults, boxes, cabinets, poles
and utility systems for gas. water. electric or telecommunications: and/or (C)
perform any other work deemed necessary, useful or desirable by the City
(collectively, “City work"). The City reserves the rights to do any and all City work
without any admission on its part that the City would not have such rights without
the express reservation in this ROW administrative design review permit. If the
Director determines that any City work will require the permittee’s small wireless
facility located in the public rights-of-way to be rearranged and/or relocated, the
permittee shail, at its sole cost and expense, do or cause to be done all things
necessary to accomplish such rearrangement and/or relocation. If the permittee
fails or refuses to either permanently or temporarily rearrange and/or relocate the
permittee’s small wireless facility or other infrastructure deployment within a
reasonable time after the Director's notice, the City may (but will not be obligated
to) cause the rearrangement or relocation to be performed at the permittee’s sole
cost and expense. The City may exercise its rights to rearrange or relocate the

24|38


--- page 53 ---
(21)

(22)

(23)

permittee’s small wireless facility or other infrastructure deployment without prior
notice to permittee when the Director determines that City work is immediately
necessary to protect public health or safety. The permittee shall reimburse the City
for all costs and expenses in connection with such work within 10 days after a
written demand for reimbursement and reasonable documentation to support such
costs. Except as may be expressly permitted otherwise, nothing in this permit will
be construed to require the City or authorize the permittee to change any street
grade, width or location, or add, remove or otherwise change any improvements
owned by the City or any other public agency located in, on, under or along the
site area or any portion of the public rights-of-way, which includes without limitation
any sewers, storm drains, conduits, pipes, vaults, boxes, cabinets, poles and utility
systems for gas, water, electric or telecommunications, for the permittee’s or any
third party's convenience or necessity.

Truthful and Accurate Statements. The permittee acknowledges that the City's
approval relies on the written and/or oral statements by permittee and/or persons
authorized to act on permittee’'s behalf. In any matter before the City in connection
with the ROW administrative design review permit or the small wireless facility or
other infrastructure approved under the ROW administrative design review permit,
neither the permittee nor any person authorized to act on permittee's behalf shall,
in any written or oral statement, intentionally provide material factual information
that is incorrect or misleading or intentionally omit any material information
necessary to prevent any material factual statement from being incorrect or
misleading.

Affirmation of Radio Frequency Standards Compliance. On or before January
30" in each calendar year, the permittee and each operator or owner of an antenna
on the site acknowledges and agrees that the permittee shail submit: (1) an
affirmation, under penalty of perjury, that the installation is and will remain FCC
compliant, because it will not cause members of the general public to be exposed
to RF levels that exceed the maximum permission exposure levels deemed safe
by the FCC; (2) a copy of the fully completed FCC form “A Local Government
Official’s Guide to Transmitting Antenna RF Emission Safety: Rules, Procedures.
and Practical Guidance: Appendix A titled “Optional Checklist for Determination of
Whether a Facility is Categorically Excluded” for each frequency band of RF
emissions to be transmitted from the proposed facility upon the approval of the
application. All planned radio frequency emissions on all frequency bands must be
shown on the Appendix A form(s) attached to the application. All radio frequency
emissions are to be entered on each Appendix A form only in wattage units of
“effective radiated power.” Any facility approved pursuant to this Policy shall
automatically become subject to the most stringent RF emission standards that
may become allowable by law.

Safety Hazard Protocols. If the Fire Chief (or his or her designee) or Board of
Chiefs of the North County Dispatch Joint Powers Authority finds good cause to
believe that the facility (including, without limitation, its accessory equipment,
antenna and/or base station) presents a fire risk, electrical hazard or other
immediate threat to public health and safety in violation of any applicable law, such
officials may order the facility to be shut down and powered off until such time as
the fire risk or electrical hazard has been mitigated. Any mitigations required shall
be at the permittee’s sole cost and expense.

25/38


--- page 54 ---
(24)

(A) Continued Monitoring. The permittee shall certify in writing continued
compliance with the safety standards of this policy on or before January 30" of
each calendar year. The Fire Chief will continue to monitor the safety of wireless
facilities in the City and publish a yearly review of fire safety considerations
regarding potential risks posed by electrical components of new technologies, the
presence of numerous small cell wireless facilities in the ROW and any fire events
or near-miss events related to wireless facilities.

(B) Oversight Authority. The Fire Chief, in his or her discretion, may issue
written fire safety performance directives that shall apply to all existing permits
within the scope of such directives and shall be considered as though incorporated
into such permits. All permittees shall be required to comply with such directives
at the permittee's sole cost and expense.

(C) Investigations. (i) The Fire Chief shall receive and investigate any credible
fire safety complaint made by a resident of the City regarding a wireless facility in
the City. Cost of such investigation shall be borne by the permittee. Permittees
shall also inform the Fire Chief in writing within one business day of any fire or
near-ignition event at any facility or replacement of any facility component in
connection with any malfunction pertaining to excess heat, sparking or discharged
current. (ii) The Fire Chief shall further investigate any fire in or around the vicinity
of a small cell wireless facility. If the conclusion of the investigation is that any
facility component is at fault, the Fire Chief shall promptly notify the Encinitas City
Council of his/her findings, and the facility at issue shall be immediately powered
down until such time as the permittee provides assurances or undertakes
precautions satisfactory to the Fire Chief that such event or similar event will not
reoccur. In the event that no such assurance is received, and the Fire Chief has
good cause to believe that such failure to comply constitutes a threat to health or
safety, the Fire Chief may recommend permit revocation to the Director pursuant
to the procedures in Section 9(a)(13) and removal pursuant to Section 9(a)(15).

Insurance. Permittee, and each owner or operator of an antenna on the facility,
shall obtain, and at all times relevant to this permit maintain, insurance policies,
issued by an insured authorized to do business in the State of California and
reasonably acceptable to the City Risk Manager, at least as broad as follows:

(A) Commercial General Liability. Insurance Services Office Form CG 00 01
covering Commercial General Liability (“CGL") on an “occurrence” basis,
with limits not less than $2,000,000 per occurrence per wireless carrier or
$4,000,000 per wireless carrier in the aggregate. If a general aggregate
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this
project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required
occurrence limit. CGL insurance must include coverage for the following:
Bodily Injury and Property Damage; Personal Injury/Advertising Injury;
Premises/Operations Liability; Products/Completed Operations Liability;
Aggregate Limits that Apply per Project; Explosion, Collapse and
Underground (“UCX") exclusion deleted; Contractual Liability with respect
to the permit; Broad Form Property Damage; and independent Consultants
Coverage. The policy shall contain no endorsements or provisions limiting
coverage for (i) contractual liability; (ii) cross liability exclusion for claims or
suits by one insured against another; (iii) products/completed operations

26|38


--- page 55 ---
(B)

(D)

(E)

liability; (iv) bodily injury or damage from RF exposure at levels exceeding
the FCC limits; or (v) contain any other exclusion contrary to the conditions
in this permit.

Automotive Insurance. Insurance Services Office Form Number CA 00
01 covering, Code 1 (any auto), or if permittee has no owned autos, Code
8 (hired) and 9 (non-owned), with limit no less than $1,000,000 per accident
for bodily injury and property damage.

Workers’ Compensation. The permittee shall certify that it is aware of the
provisions of California Labor Code § 3700, which requires every employer
to be insured against liability for workers’ compensation or to undertake
self-insurance in accordance with the provisions of that code, and further
certifies that the permittee will comply with such provisions before
commencing work under this permit. To the extent the permittee has
employees at any time during the term of this permit, at all times during the
performance of the work under this permit the permittee shall maintain
insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and
Employer's Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per
accident for bodily injury or disease.

Errors and Omissions Policy. The permittee shall maintain Professional
Liability (Errors and Omissions) Insurance appropriate to the permittee's
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim. This
insurance shall be endorsed to include contractual liability applicable to this
permit and shall be written on a policy form coverage specifically designed
to protect against acts, errors or omissions of the permittee. “Covered
Professional Services” as designed in the policy must specifically include
work performed under this permit.

Environmental Pollution Liability Insurance. The permittee shall
procure and maintain at its expense or cause its contractor or subcontractor
to procure and maintain throughout the term of this permit, Contractors
Pollution Liability Insurance including contractual liability coverage to cover
liability and legal expenses arising out of cleanup, removal, storage, or
handling of hazardous or toxic chemicals, materials, substances, or any
other pollutants by the permittee or any subcontractor resulting from
pollution conditions associated with the facility in an amount not less than
$1,000,000 each occurrence combined single limit for bodily injury and
property damage.

Umbrella Policy. If an umbrella or excess liability insurance policy is used
to satisfy the minimum requirements for CGL or Automobile Liability
insurance coverage listed above, the umbrella or excess liability policies
shall provide coverage at least as broad as specified for the underlying
coverages and covering those insured in the underlying policies. Coverage
shall be “pay on behalf,” with defense costs payable in addition to policy
limits. Permittee shall provide a “follow form” endorsement or schedule of
underlying coverage satisfactory to the City indicating that such coverage
is subject to the same terms and conditions as the underlying liability policy.

Q
io}

ie

27 |


--- page 56 ---
(b)

(25)

(26)

(27)

(G) Endorsements. The relevant policy(ies) shall name the City, its elected/
appointed officials, commission members, officers, representatives,
agents, volunteers and employees as additional insureds. The permittee
shall use its best efforts to provide thirty (30) days’ prior notice to the City
of to the cancellation or material modification of any applicable insurance
policy.

(H) Verification of Coverage. Permittee shall furnish the City with original
certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of the applicable
policy language providing the insurance coverage required herein. All
certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved by the City
before any work commences. However, failure to obtain required
documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Licensee's
obligation to provide them. Permittee shall furnish updated certificates and
endorsements to the City annually. The City reserves the right to require
updated certificates and endorsements or complete, certified copies of all
required insurance policies, including the endorsements required herein, at
any time.

Successors and Assigns. The conditions, covenants, promises and terms
contained in this permit will bind and inure to the benefit of the City and permittee
and their respective successors and assigns.

Severability of Conditions. If any provision in these conditions or such provision’s
application to any person, entity or circumstances is or held by any court with
competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable: (1) such provision or its
application to such person, entity or circumstance will be deemed severed from
this permit; (2) all other provisions in this permit or their application to any person,
entity or circumstance will not be affected; and (3) all other provisions in this permit
or their application to any person, entity or circumstance will be valid and
enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.

City’s Standing Reserved. The City’s grant or grant by operation of law of a
permit pursuant to this Policy does not waive, and shall not be construed to waive,
any standing by the City to challenge any FCC rules that interpret the
Telecommunications Act, the Spectrum Act or any permit issued pursuant to this
Policy.

Modified Conditions; Permits Conditional. The City Council authorizes the Director to
modify, add or remove conditions to any ROW administrative design review permit as the
Director deems necessary or appropriate to: (1) protect and/or promote the public health,
safety and welfare; (2) tailor the standard conditions in subsection (a) to the particular
facts and circumstances associated with the deployment; and/or (3) memorialize any
changes to the proposed deployment need for compliance with the Encinitas Municipal
Code, this policy, generally applicable health and safety requirements and/or any other
applicable laws. In the event of a change in any state or federal law affecting this Policy,
including judicial decisions applicable to such laws, all permits issued pursuant to this
Policy shall be reviewed and modified by the Director to maximally effectuate the
objectives of this Policy as determined by the Director.

28|38



--- page 57 ---
(c)

Facilities Review following Change of Law. But for restrictions imposed by state and/or
federal law, which includes regulations promulgated by the FCC, the City would not
approve any facility unless such facility was the least intrusive means to mitigate a
significant gap in the provider's service. Following any change of laws as described in
Section 9(b) that would restore the City’s authority to enforce such restrictions, at
permittees’ sole cost and expense, the Director may direct the City’s expert to identify any
facilities that are not necessary to mitigate a gap in the permittee's service or are not the
least intrusive means to mitigate such a gap. The Director shall adopt or reject, or adopt
or reject with respect to specific facilities, the opinion of the expert within five days of such
expert report having been submitted to the Director, which shall be made public on the
applicable City website. If the director determined that a facility is not necessary to mitigate
a gap and/or not the least intrusive means to do so, the Director shall notify the permittee
in writing of the determination and commence revocation hearings and proceedings. The
Director shail provide at least 10 days’ prior written notice of such public hearing to
residents and property owners within 500 feet from the facility. The City Council may
revoke a permit when it finds substantial evidence in the written record to show that the
facility is not necessary to fill a gap in coverage and/or not the least intrusive means to do
so. Any decision by the City Council to revoke or not revoke a permit shall be final and not
subject to any further appeals. Within five business days after the City Council adopts a
resolution to revoke a permit, the Director shall provide the permittee with a written notice
that specifies the revocation and the reasons for such revocation. Existing permittees
subject to revocation and new applicants will be eligible to seek a new permit as
conditional use permit (major) under Chapter 30.74 of the Municipal Code.

SECTION 10. LOCATION STANDARDS

(a)

Restricted Site Locations. Ail of the following locations will be deemed “Restricted Site
Locations” that require an exception pursuant to Section 13 of this Policy:

(1) any location within a residential zone:

(2) any location within 500 feet from a residential dwelling unit:

(3) any location within 500 feet from a daycare facility or school:

(4) any location within a Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone:

(5) any location within the Ecological Resource/Open Space/Park Zone;

(6) any location within 100 feet from the inland sand line or bluff line;

(7) any location within 250 feet from any federal, state or local historic landmark;

(8) any location with 100 feet from a Scenic Vista Point as designated in the Encinitas
General Plan.

Location Preferences. To better assist applicants and decision makers understand and
respond to the community's aesthetic preferences and values, this subsection sets out
listed preferences for locations to be used in connection with small wireless facilities in an
ordered hierarchy. Applications that involve lesser-preferred locations may be approved
so long as the applicant demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence in the written

291/38



--- page 58 ---
(c)

record that: (1) any more preferred locations or structures within 500 feet from the
proposed site would be technically infeasible; and (2) if the proposed site or the most-
preferred location within 500 feet from the proposed site is within a Restricted Site
Location, the applicant qualifies for an exception pursuant to Section 13 of this Policy. The
City requires small cells in the public rights-of-way to be installed in locations, ordered
from most preferred to least preferred, as follows:

(1) locations within industrial zones, commercial zones, business parks or office
professional zones on or along prime arterials:

(2) locations within industrial zones, commercial zones, business parks or office
professional zones on or along major arterials:

(3) locations within industrial zones, commercial zones, business parks or office
professional zones on or along collector roads;

(4) locations within industrial zones, commercial zones, business parks or office
professional zones on or along local streets;

(5) any location within 1,000 feet from an existing/proposed small wireless facility;

(6) any location not less than 500 feet from any Restricted Site Location (as defined
in Section 10(a) above);

(7) locations within residential zones on or along prime arterials;
(8) locations within residential zones on or along major arterials:
(9) locations within residential zones on or along collector roads:
(10) locations within residential zones on or along local streets.

To minimize visual clutter, the collocation of any facility within a location class identified in
subsection (b) above is more preferred than non-collocation within that same class
(without simultaneously being located in a lower priority class) so long as collection can
be achieved within existing shrouding and without sacrificing achievement of the
objectives in Section 11.

In the event that a proposed facility would be within 500 feet a residence, the technically
feasible location furthest from all residences will be deemed to be the most preferred
alternative. In the event that a proposed facility would be located within a Restricted Site
Location (as defined in Subsection 10(a)), and the proposed facility qualifies for an
exception pursuant to Section 13 of this Policy, the technically must be located in the
feasible location of highest priority class while not simultaneously located in a lower priority
class pursuant to this subsection (b).

Encroachments Over Private Property. No small cell antennas, accessory equipment

or other improvements may encroach onto or over any private or other property outside
the public rights-of-way without the property owner's express written consent.

30/33


--- page 59 ---
(d)

(e)

No Interference with Other Uses. Small cells and any associated antennas, accessory
equipment or improvements shall not be located in any place or manner that would
physically interfere with or impede access to any: (1) worker access to any above-ground
or underground infrastructure for traffic control, streetlight or public transportation,
including without limitation any curb control sign, parking meter, vehicular traffic sign or
signal, pedestrian traffic sign or signal, barricade reflectors; (2) access to any public
transportation vehicles, shelters, street furniture or other improvements at any public
transportation stop; (3) worker access to above-ground or underground infrastructure
owned or operated by any public or private utility agency; (4) fire hydrant or water valve;
(5) access to any doors, gates, sidewalk doors, passage doors, stoops or other ingress
and egress points to any building appurtenant to the rights-of-way; or (6) access to any
fire escape.

Replacement Pole Location. All replacement poles must: (1) be located as close to the
removed pole as possible; (2) be aligned with the other existing poles along the public
rights-of-way; and (3) be compliant with all applicable standards and specifications by the
identified or required by the Director.

Additional Placement Requirements. In addition to all other requirements in this Policy,
small wireless facilities, other infrastructure deployments and all related equipment and
improvements shall:

(1) be placed as close as possible to the property line between two parcels that abuts
the public rights-of-way;

(2) not be placed directly in front of any door or window;
(3) not be placed within any sight distance triangles at any intersections;

(4) not be placed in any location that obstructs view lines for traveling vehicles,
bicycles and pedestrian;

(5) not be placed in any location that obstructs views of any traffic signs or signals;

(6) not be placed in any location that obstructs illumination patterns for existing
streetlights;

(7) be placed at least 15 feet away from any driveway or established pedestrian
pathway between a residential structure and the public rights-of-way;

(8) be placed at least 50 feet away from any driveways for police/sheriff's stations, fire
stations or other emergency responder facilities;

(9) use existing or replacement streetlights rather than wood poles whenever
technically feasible; and

(10) not require new support structures unless the applicant provides clear and
convincing evidence demonstrating that a new support structure is the only
technically feasible option to the exclusion of any alternative or reasonable
combination of alternatives.



--- page 60 ---
SECTION 11. DESIGN STANDARDS

(a)

(1)

(2)

(3)

Preface to Design Standards. The City of Encinitas has a long-standing policy in favor
of concealment of personal wireless service facilities (see Encinitas Municipal Code
Chapter 9.70) to mitigate the adverse aesthetic impacts on the community from unsightly
infrastructure. More recent FCC regulations require local aesthetic requirements to be (1)
reasonable, which the FCC defines as technically feasible and directed at avoiding
aesthetic harm; (2) no more burdensome than those applied to similarly situated
deployments; (3) objective; and (4) published in advance. This Section 11 contains
aesthetic regulations that reflect the City’s concealment policies through requirements that
conform to the FCC's limitations.

Aesthetics depend largely on context and mitigating aesthetic harm from continuously
evolving wireless technologies under rigid federal limitations presents a significant
challenge. To aid staff, applicants and other stakeholders interpret the design standards
in this Section 11 and better understand the City’s design objectives, this Section 11(a)
sets out general principles that should be considered when applying the specific design
standards:

Antennas, accessory equipment and support structures should be concealed and be
in harmony with surroundings. Applicants should utilize all practical means to conceal
or minimize the number of facilities and reduce their visual impact, which includes,
without limitation using replacement poles designed to be in keeping with the
neighborhocd aesthetic.

Applicants should use building materials, colors and textures designed to harmonize
with the natural surroundings and integrate equipment into existing or replacement
structures so as to render the facility substantially invisible, or as nearly invisible as
reasonably feasible.

Antennas, accessory equipment and support structures should be the smallest and as
low-profile as technically feasible, taking into considerations the best available
solutions for the technologies used in the applicant's deployment.

Pole-mounted antennas and accessory equipment should be instailed in a manner
than minimizes horizontal projections, which includes, without limitation, installing
equipment within the pole or as flush to the pole as possible.

Support structures and attachments thereto should be the lowest possible height and
no taller than similarly situated structures in the vicinity.

Non-antenna accessory equipment should be placed underground whenever possible.

Surface-mounted accessory equipment should not reduce passable sidewalk space
and should be screened with existing or new landscape features, or placed within
existing or replacement street furniture, such as benches, bus shelters or kiosks.

Finishes. All exterior surfaces shall be painted, colored and/or wrapped in flat,
nonreflective hues that match the underlying support structure or blend with the
surrounding environment. All surfaces shall be treated with graffiti-resistant sealant. All
finishes shall be subject to the Director’s prior approval.

32138


--- page 61 ---
(c) Noise. Small cells and all associated antennas. accessory equipment and other
improvements must comply with all applicable noise contro! standards and regulations in
the Encinitas Municipal Code Chapter 9.32 and shall not exceed, either on an individual
or cumulative basis, the noise limit in the applicable zone.

(d) Lights. All streetlights and streetlight fixtures must be aimed and shielded so that their
illumination effects are directed downwards and confined within the public rights-of-way in
a manner consistent with any other standards and specifications by the as identified or
required by the Director. All antennas, accessory equipment and other improvements with
indicator or status lights must be installed in locations and within enclosures that eliminate
illumination impacts visible from publicly accessible areas.

(e) Trees and Landscaping. Small wireless facilities and other infrastructure deployments
shall not be installed (in whole or in part) within any tree drip line. Small wireless facilities
and other infrastructure deployments may not displace any existing tree or landscape
features unless: (A) such displaced tree or landscaping is replaced with native and/or
drought-resistant trees, plants or other landscape features approved by the Director and
(B) the applicant submits and adheres to a landscape maintenance plan. Only
international Society of Arboriculture certified workers under a licensed arborist’s
supervision shall be used to install the replacement tree(s). Any replacement tree must be
substantially the same size as the damaged tree unless approved by the Director. The
permittee shall, at all times, be responsible to maintain any replacement landscape
features.

(f) Signs and Advertisements. All small wireless facilities and other infrastructure
deployments that involve RF transmitters must include signage that accurately identifies
the site owner/operator, the owner/operator's site name or identification number and a toll-
free number to the owner/operator’s network operations center. Small wireless facilities
and other infrastructure deployments may not bear any other signage or advertisements
unless expressly approved by the City, required by law or recommended under FCC or
other United States governmental agencies for compliance with RF emissions regulations.

(g) Site Security Measures. Small wireless facilities and other infrastructure deployments
may incorporate reasonable and appropriate site security measures, such as locks and
anti-climbing devices, to prevent unauthorized access, theft or vandalism. The Director
shall not approve any barbed wire, razor ribbon, electrified fences or any similarly
dangerous security measures. All exterior surfaces on small wireless facilities shall be
constructed from or coated with graffiti-resistant materials. Cabinets and equipment
shroud must be kept secured to prevent unauthorized access.

(h) Compliance with Health and Safety Regulations. All small wireless facilities and other
infrastructure deployments shall be designed, constructed, operated and maintained in
compliance with all generally applicable health and safety regulations, which includes
without limitation all applicable regulations for human exposure to RF emissions and
compliance with the federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. §§ 12101
et seg.), the Fair Housing Act Amendments of 1988 and any other applicable
disability/handicap accommodation laws.

(i) Antennas. The provisions in this subsection (h) are generally applicable to all antennas.

33135



--- page 62 ---
(1) Shrouding. All antennas and associated cables, jumpers, wires, mounts, masts,
brackets and other connectors and hardware must be installed within a single shroud
or radome. For pole-top antennas, the shroud shall not exceed 2.5 times the median
pole diameter and must taper down to pole. For side-arm antennas, the shroud must
cover the cross arm and any cables, jumpers, wires or other connectors between the
vertical riser and the antenna.

(2) | Antenna Volume. Each individual antenna associated with a single small cell shall
not exceed three cubic feet. The cumulative volume for all antennas on a single small
cell shall not exceed: (A) three cubic feet in residential areas; or (B) six cubic feet in
nonresidential areas.

(3) Overall Height. No antenna may extend more than five feet above the support
Structure, plus any minimum separation between the antenna and other pole
attachments required by applicable health and safety regulations. |

|

(4) Horizontal Projection. Side-mounted antennas, where permitted, shall not project:
(A) more than 24 inches from the support structure; (B) over any roadway for vehicular
travel; or (C) over any abutting private property. If applicable laws require a side-
mounted antenna to project more than 24 inches from the support structure, the
projection shall be no greater than required for compliance with such laws.

(j) Accessory Equipment Volume. The cumulative volume for all accessory equipment for
a single small wireless facility or other infrastructure deployment shall not exceed: (A)
seven cubic feet to the extent feasible, but in no event greater than nine cubic feet in
residential areas, or (B) 12 cubic feet in nonresidential areas. The volume limits in this
subsection do not apply to any undergrounded accessory equipment.

(k) Undergrounded Accessory Equipment.

(1) Where Required. Accessory equipment (other than any electric meter (where
permitted) and an emergency disconnect switch) shall be placed underground when
proposed in any (A) underground utility district or (B) any location where the Director
finds substantial evidence that the additional above-ground accessory equipment
would incommode the public's uses in the public rights-of-way. Notwithstanding the
preceding sentence, the Director may grant an exception when the applicant
demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that compliance with this section
would be technically infeasible.

(2) Vaults. All undergrounded accessory equipment must be installed in an
environmentally controlled vault that is load-rated to meet the City’s standards and
specifications. Underground vaults located beneath a sidewalk must be constructed
with a slip-resistant cover and properly secured to prevent unauthorized access. Vents
for airflow shall be flush-to-grade when placed within the sidewalk and may not exceed
two feet above grade when placed off the sidewalk. Vault tids shall not exhibit logos or
commercial advertisements.

(I) Pole-Mounted Accessory Equipment. The provisions in this subsection (k) are
applicable to all pole-mounted accessory equipment in connection with small wireless
facilities and other infrastructure deployments.

34|38



--- page 63 ---
(1) Preferred Concealment Techniques. Applicants should propose to place any pole-
mounted accessory equipment in the least conspicuous position under the
circumstances presented by the proposed pole and location. In general, the least
conspicuous position will be the one where the equipment is above eye level and the
pole obstructs the equipment from prominent views. Any uncertainty about the least
conspicuous position shall be resolved by the Director. Pole-mounted accessory
equipment may be installed behind street, traffic or other signs to the extent that the
installation complies with applicable public health and safety regulations.

(2) Minimum Vertical Clearance. The lowest point on any pole-mounted accessory

equipment shall be at least 10 feet above ground level adjacent to the pole. If

applicable laws require any pole-mounted accessory equipment component to be

placed less than 10 feet above ground level, the clearance from ground level shall be
no less than required for compliance with such laws.

(3) Horizontal Projection. Pole-mounted accessory equipment shall not project: (i) more
than 18 inches from the pole surface; (ii) over any roadway for vehicular travel; or (iii)
over any abutting private property. All pole-mounted accessory equipment shall be
mounted flush to the pole surface. If applicable laws preclude flush-mounted
equipment, the separation gap between the pole and the accessory equipment shall
be no greater than required for compliance with such laws and concealed by opaque,
weatherproof material (such as cabinet “flaps” or “wings”) that matches the color and
texture of the pole.

(4) Orientation. Unless placed behind a street sign or some other concealment that
dictates the equipment orientation on the pole, all pole-mounted accessory equipment
should be oriented away from prominent views. In general, the proper orientation will
likely be toward the street to reduce the overall profile when viewed from the nearest
abutting properties. If orientation toward the street is not feasible, then the proper
orientation will most likely be away from oncoming traffic. If more than one orientation
would be technically feasible, the Director may select the most appropriate orientation.

subsection (|) are applicable to all ground-mounted and base-mounted accessory
equipment in connection with smail wireless facilities and other infrastructure
deployments.

|
(m) Ground-Mounted or Base-Mounted Accessory Equipment. The provisions in this
(1) Ground-Mounted Concealment. On collector roads and local roads, the City prefers

ground-mounted accessory equipment to be concealed as follows: (A) within a

landscaped parkway, median or similar location, behind or among new or existing

landscape features and painted or wrapped in flat natural colors to blend with the

landscape features; and (B) if landscaping concealment is not technically feasible,

disguised as other street furniture adjacent to the support structure, such as, for

example, mailooxes, benches or information kiosks. On arterial roads outside

underground utility districts, proposed ground-mounted accessory equipment should

be completely shrouded or placed in a cabinet substantially similar in appearance to

existing ground-mounted accessory equipment cabinets.
(2) Public Safety Visibility. To promote and protect public health and safety and prevent

potential hazards hidden behind large equipment cabinets, no individual ground-

mounted accessory equipment cabinet may exceed four feet in height or four feet in

351338



--- page 64 ---
(n)

(0)

(2)

width. Ground-mounted and base-mounted equipment cabinets shall not have any
horizontal flat surfaces greater than 1.5 square inches to prevent litter or other objects
left on such surfaces.

Utilities. The provisions in this subsection (m) are applicable to all utilities and other
related improvements that serve small wireless facilities and other infrastructure
deployments.

Overhead Lines. The Director shall not approve any new overhead utility lines in
underground utility districts. In areas with existing overhead lines, new communication
lines shall be “overlashed” with existing communication lines. No new overhead utility
service drops shall be permitted to traverse any roadway used for vehicular transit.

Vertical Cable Risers. All cables, wires and other connectors must be routed through
conduits within the pole or other support structure, and all conduit attachments, cables,
wires and other connectors must be concealed from public view. To the extent that
cables, wires and other connectors cannot be routed through the pole due to
insufficient internal space, the applicant shall replace the pole. Where installations are
permitted on wood utility poles, applicants shall route cables, wires and other
connectors through a single external conduit or shroud that has been finished to match
the underlying pole.

Spools and Coils. To reduce clutter and deter vandalism, excess fiber optic or coaxial
cables shall not be spooled, coiled or otherwise stored on the pole outside equipment
cabinets or shrouds.

Electric Meters. Smail cells and other infrastructure deployments shall use flat-rate
electric service or other method that obviates the need for a separate above-grade
electric meter. If flat-rate service is not available, applicants may install a shrouded
smart meter that shall not exceed the width of the pole; provided, however that such
smart meter shall be placed at least 10 feet above ground level. If the proposed project
involves a ground-mounted equipment cabinet, an electric meter may be integrated
with and recessed into the cabinet, but the Director shall not approve a separate
ground-mounted electric meter pedestal unless (1) the separate ground-mounted
meter pedestal would be placed off the sidewalk and (2) the applicant demonstrates
with clear and convincing evidence that all other alternatives for the electric meter are
technically infeasible.

Existing Conduit or Circuits. To reduce unnecessary wear and tear on the public
rights-of-way, applicants are encouraged to use existing conduits and/or electric
circuits whenever available and technically feasible. Access to any conduit and/or
circuits owned by the City shall be subject to the Director's prior written approval, which
the Director may withhold or condition as the Director deems necessary or appropriate
to protect the City's infrastructure, prevent interference with the City's municipal
functions and public health and safety.

Fire Safety Standards. All wireless facilities shall include (1) a power shut off immediately
accessible to fire service personnel, such as by means of rapid entry Knox or similar type
systems installed as required by the Fire Chief, upon arrival at the scene of a fire and/or
anticipated power surge due to power being turned off or on for any reason; (2) surge
protection devices capable of mitigating a direct or partial direct lightning discharge; (3)

36 [338


--- page 65 ---
(p)

surge protection devices capable of mitigating significant electrical disturbances that may
enter the facility via conductive cables; (4) at least one-hour fire resistant interior surfaces
to be used in the composition of all structures. and (5) monitored automatic fire notification
and extinguishing systems for all wireless facilities approved by the Fire Chief.

Existing Facilities. To the extent permitted under applicable law, any facilities in
existence on the effective date of this policy shall be brought into compliance with these
design standards at the earliest opportunity. This requirement shall not be interpreted or
applied in a manner that prevents collocations or modifications subject to mandatory
approval under 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a).

SECTION 12. PREAPPROVED DESIGNS

(a)

(e)

Purpose. To expedite the review process and encourage collaborative designs among
applicants and the City, the City Council authorizes the Director to designate one or more
preapproved designs for small wireless facilities and other infrastructure deployments.
This Section 12 sets out the process to establish or repeal a preapproved design and the
expedited review procedures and findings applicable to these applications.

Adoption. The Director may, in the Director's discretion, establish a preapproved design
when the Director finds that a proposed preapproved design substantially complies with
the design standards in this Policy. The Director shall specify the zones, aesthetic
environments or other contexts in which any preapproved design type will be applicable.
The Director shall post a public notice posted at Encinitas City Hall, with the City Clerk
and in a newspaper of general circulation within the City. The notice must generally
describe the preapproved design, include a photograph or photo simulation, specify
whether the preapproved design would be limited or restricted in any zones and contain a
reference to the appeal procedure. Unless appealed pursuant to the Encinitas Municipal
Code, the preapproved design shall become effective 15 days from the notice required in
this subsection. A decision by the Director not to adopt a proposed preapproved design
or the Director's failure to act on a request for a proposed preapproved design is not
appealable.

Repeal. The Director may repeal any preapproved design by written notice posted at
Encinitas City Hall. The repeal shall be immediately effective. The Director's repeal,
refusal to repeal or failure to act on a request to repeal a preapproved design is not
appealable.

Modified Findings. When an applicant submits a complete application for a preapproved
design, the Director shall presume that the findings for approval in Subsections 8(b)(1) are
satisfied and shall evaluate the application for compliance with the findings for approval in
the remaining paragraphs of Subsection 8(b).

Nondiscrimination. Any applicant may propose to use any preapproved design whether
the applicant initially requested that the Director adopt such preapproved design or not.
The Director's decision to adopt a preapproved design expresses no preference or
requirement that applicants use the specific vendor or manufacturer that fabricated the
design depicted in the preapproved plans. Any other vendor or manufacturer that
fabricates a facility to the standards and specifications in the preapproved design with like
materials, finishes and overall quality shall be acceptable as a preapproved design.



--- page 66 ---
SECTION 13 EXCEPTIONS

(a)

(c)

(d)

(€)

(f)

(9)

Preface. The provisions in this Section 13 establish a procedure by which the City may
grant an exception to the standards in this Policy but only to the extent necessary to avoid
conflict with applicable federal or state law. When the applicant requests an exception, the
Director (or the City Council on appeal) shall consider the findings in Subsection 13(b) in
addition to the findings required under Subsection 8(b). Each exception is specific to the
facts and circumstances in connection with each application. An exception granted in one
instance shall not be deemed to create a presumption or expectation that an exception
will be granted in any other instance. Other than a request pertaining to placement of a
facility in a location described in Section 10(a)(4) (a Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone),
exceptions shall not be approved to override any fire safety or other public safety standard
determined to be appropriate by the City.

Findings for an Exception. The Director (or the City Council on appeal) may grant an
exception to any provision or requirement in this Policy only if the Director (or City Council
on appeal) finds that:

(1) a denial based on the application’s noncompliance with a specific provision or
requirement would violate federal law, state law or both; or

(2) a provision in this Policy, as applied to the applicant, would violate any rights or
privileges conferred on the applicant by federal or state law.

Exception Requests. An applicant may request an exception only at the time the
applicant submits an application in conformance with Section 6(a)(15). The Director (or
City Council on appeal) may consider additional information provided by the applicant after
submittal to supplement the initial exception request. Any request for an exception after
the initial submittal shall be deemed to be a new application.

Expert Review. Due to the technical nature of issues likely to be raised, independent
consultant review will generally be appropriate when considering an exception request.

Burden of Proof. The applicant shall have the burden to prove to the Director (or City
Council on appeal) that an exception should be granted pursuant to Subsection 13(b). The
standard of evidence shall be the same as required by applicable federal or state law for
the issue raised in the applicant's request for an exception.

Legal Review. The approval of any exception request shall require the consultation of the
City Attorney as to the validity and legal justification for the exception.

Scope of Exception. If the Director (or the City Council on appeal) finds that an exception
should be granted, the exception shall be narrowly tailored so that the exception deviates
from this Policy to least extent necessary for compliance with federal or state law.



--- page 67 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-8259
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Brad Underwood
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
December 13, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Wireless Permit Approval at 16 Baldwin (Permit# WC-2023-000201) - Appeal
RECOMMENDATION:
Hold a public hearing to consider an appeal from residents within 500 feet of the proposed site of a wireless permit 
application that was approved by the Director of Public Works.
BACKGROUND:
On July 11, 2023, the City of San Mateo (“City”) staff received a Wireless Facilities Communications Permit Application 
(“Application”) from Crown Castle, working on behalf of Verizon for the installation of wireless communication facilities on 
within the public right-of-way (Attachment 3). The location of the proposed wireless communications facility is in the 
Central Business District at the southeast corner of the El Camino Real and Baldwin Avenue intersection on an existing 
metal streetlight pole (City ID# 2805) within the public sidewalk. Attachment 1 shows the proposed facility’s location and 
photo simulation renderings.  
   
As required by the San Mateo Municipal Code (“SMMC”) Chapter 17.10, “Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public 
Right-of-Way”, Crown Castle must meet all requirements and design standards as outlined in SMMC Sections 17.10.040 
and 17.10.050. This includes, but is not limited to, a full permit application form and providing mailed notices to nearby 
residents within a 500-foot radius of the proposed project site of the proposed wireless small cell facility. Based on the 
review of all the submitted documents, staff determined that the application and proposed installation meet the required 
conditions of approval as outlined in SMMC Chapter 17.10. 
   
After its review, the City conditionally approved the Application on November 9, 2023. As required by the SMMC Section 
17.10.070, a decision notice was posted on November 9, 2023 on the City‘s Small Cell Infrastructure website. The notice 
advised residents of the Director of Public Works’ (“Director”) decision and allowed a 5-day appeal period.  
   
 Approval Authority 
   
The Director’s decision to approve this Wireless Facilities Communications permit application and the criteria the 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission (“Commission”) must evaluate in its determination of whether to grant or 
deny any appeal is based on SMMC Section 17.10.070(b)(1-4), which states in pertinent part: 
   
Required Findings for Approval. The approval authority may approve or conditionally approve an application for a wireless 
permit submitted under this chapter when the approval authority finds all the following: 
   
1.
The applicant and the proposed wireless facility comply with all applicable requirements of this Chapter and the 
67 of 682

--- page 68 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Design Standards and Application Requirements (“Design Standards”); and 
   
2.
The application is deemed complete by the Director; and 
   
3.
The proposed wireless facility complies with all applicable federal, state and local laws, regulations, rules, 
restrictions and conditions, which includes without limitation, the California Building Standards Code or any local 
building codes; the Americans with Disabilities Act, and all applicable health and safety requirements, including 
Public Utilities Commission General Order 95, (and as these rules may be amended or superseded); General Plan 
and any applicable specific plan; the San Mateo Municipal Code; and any conditions or restrictions in any permit or 
other governmental approval issued by any public agency with jurisdiction over the project; and 
   
4.
The applicant has demonstrated that its proposed wireless facility will be in compliance with all applicable FCC 
rules and regulations for human exposure to RF emissions. 
   
Appeal to Wireless Permit 
   
Pursuant to SMMC Section 17.10.070(g), the appellant on appeal has the burden of proof for establishing the basis for 
seeking the reversal of the permit approval. 
   
On November 14, 2023, the City received an appeal from Lindsay Raike on behalf of Michael Hamilton (“Appellant”), which 
included six items as basis for the appeal (“Basis Items”) (Attachment 2).  However, Basis Items Number 2 and 4 cannot be 
considered within the scope of the appeal since they relate to radio frequency (“RF”) emissions and/or are legally not 
required.
 
The Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) does not allow appeals when based solely on the environmental effects 
from RF emissions that are compliant with applicable FCC regulations and guidelines. Here, Basis Item No. 2 presents 
concerns over cancer, hearing, and respiration in relation to RF emissions. Basis Item No. 4 suggests the FCC does not have 
effective RF emissions regulations. This is incorrect. The case cited did not strike down the current FCC RF emissions 
regulations, and these regulations remain in effect.
Therefore, the appropriate scope of appeal is as follows:  
Basis 1: Site location too close to a school
Basis 2: Health Concerns for cancer, hearing, and respiration
Basis 3: Site location should not be in residential or school  
Basis 4: Federal Laws and FCC orders citing case law.
Basis 5: Proof of coverage and capacity deficiencies
Basis 6: Property values
Basis 7: Public nuisance
Basis 8: Fire hazard
 
Pursuant to SMMC Section 17.10.070(g), the Commission shall hold a public hearing to consider and act on the appeal de 
novo and in accordance with the required findings by issuing a decision at the hearing. 
   
Staff Review 
   
Staff reviewed the wireless permit application for conformance to SMMC Section 17.10.070(b)(1-4). 
   
Regarding Basis 1, site location too close to a school, the Design Standards do not consider proximity to schools as a 
review criterion. The Design Standards list the order of preference for zoning districts in the Site Location section; 
however, schools are not explicitly listed. The school referenced in the appeal is Episcopal Day School of St. Matthew 
which is located in the Central Business District zoning which is the fourth highest preferred zoning. While Alternate Poles 
68 of 682

--- page 69 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
No. 21, 22, and 23 are considered acceptable locations, the proposed location is the farthest from any building in addition 
to being in the more preferred Central Business District zoning district.
 
Regarding Basis 3, site location in residential or school zones, the Design Standards list the order of preference for zoning 
districts in the Site Location section; however, pursuant to 47 U.S.C 332(c)(7)(B) the City shall not outright prohibit nor 
have the effect of prohibiting, by way of restrictive regulations, the ability to provide service. The proposed location is 
within the Central Business District zoning which is the fourth highest preferred zoning.
    
Regarding Basis 5, proof of coverage and capacity deficiencies, the City cannot effectively prohibit a provider from 
providing services or from closing gaps in its own coverage by regulating site selection pursuant to FCC order 18-133 and 
SMMC Section 17.10.010(b)(1). 
   
Regarding Basis 6, property values, the City’s Design Standards do not consider property values when reviewing wireless 
permit applications. Property values are speculative in nature, can be affected by a multitude of different reasons, and 
would be impractical for staff to assess. 
Regarding Basis 7, public nuisance, the City’s Design Standards do not consider public nuisance when reviewing wireless 
permit applications. Pursuant to 47 U.S.C 332(c)(7)(B) the City shall not outright prohibit nor have the effect of prohibiting, 
by way of restrictive regulations, the ability to provide service.
Regarding Basis 8, fire hazard, the City’s Design Standards do not consider fire hazards when reviewing wireless permit 
applications. Wireless facilities must comply with California Public Utilities Commission (”CPUC”) regulations for utilities 
which include fire safety regulations within the CPUC’s General Order No. 95.
  
Based on the review of the Crown Castle application and the above, staff believes Crown Castle has met the requirements 
of the Municipal Code and Design Standards. Based on the above, staff recommends the Commission deny the appeal.
 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The public hearing to consider resident appeals does not have a direct impact on the City’s Budget other than costs 
associated with staff time which are paid for by the permit applicant.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This appeal is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Location Map and Simulations
Att 2 – Appeal Applications
Att 3 – Wireless Permit Application Files
STAFF CONTACT
Jason Hallare, Senior Engineer
jhallare@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7316
69 of 682

--- page 70 ---
70 of 682

--- page 71 ---
LEGEND

—-- City Limits

—— 500-ft Radius

@) Proposed Location

@ Unacceptable Alternate
@ Acceptable Alternate
## = Alternative Site No.

ATTACHMENT 1
Location Map

71 of 682


--- page 72 ---
LEGEND
—-- City Limits
—— 500-ft Radius
@ Proposed Location
@ Unacceptable Alternate
@ Acceptable Alternate

## Pole ID Tag
NT No Tag on pole

ATTACHMENT 1
Pole ID Map

72 of 682


--- page 73 ---
1
2
CA_SF_SANMATEO_209
16 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
PHOTO SIMULATION
Aerial View
73 of 682

--- page 74 ---
EXISTING VIEW
CLOSE UP
CA_SF_SANMATEO_209
16 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
PHOTO SIMULATION
View 1
74 of 682

--- page 75 ---
CA_SF_SANMATEO_209
16 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
PHOTO SIMULATION
View 2
EXISTING VIEW
CLOSE UP
75 of 682

--- page 76 ---
76 of 682

--- page 77 ---
77 of 682

--- page 78 ---
WIRELESS PERMIT — APPEAL OF DECISION APPLICATION Office Use Only
City of San Mateo a

330 W. 20 Avenue Date Filed:
San Mateo, CA 94403 File #:

Tentative Hearing Date:

TO: Secretary of the Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Per San Mateo Municipal Code Section 17.10.070(g), the wireless permit applicant or any person who is a property owner or
resident within 500! of the project site may appeal any decision by the Director to approve or deny an application for a wireless
permit. Appeals must be filed with the Secretary of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission within five calendar days
following the Director's decision. Appeals from an approval will not be permitted to the extent that the appeal is based on
environmental effects from RF emissions that comply with all applicable FCC regulations.

Nae: _ IT: Prone

APPELLANT | Email:
Address:

Wireless Permit # Being Appealed: 34 WC- 2027 2 -00020| Fo le 2805
2. SAN MATEO, CA ATO

SUBJECT
Address / Location:

ls your appeal related to health and/or environmental effects from radio frequency (RF) emissions? Yes No[_]

State reasons for appeal. Statement shall reference specific sections from San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10 and/or
the City’s Design Standards and Application Requirements for Wireless Facilities in the Public Right-of-way:

————=,

I Rave Cow Cans Per wy geed Friend

who WAS K PRCE Waker. He \fveg 0/

SCO’ eek of tne tower, RISO 14S +o clo4e

To the Schroe( kids And. they Play ing the

Bad YiGnk N@y7T FO The Pro paso). owe ,

Tm Aw Also® conseenwed AtRev- the hrru

I> CAN CALSE £ CranicEye , PfEnring, Zespirarory
: f LT placement of SUCH

APERS. AWA MW Senco ls ca.

Appellant's Signature Date
(Attach additional sheets if necessary)

78 of 682



--- page 79 ---
79 of 682

--- page 80 ---
80 of 682

--- page 81 ---
learningwitniindsay.com

On Mon, Nov 27, 2023 at 2:20 PM Jason Hallare <jhallare@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:

Hello Lindsay,

| wanted to forward the City’s response to Michael regarding the 16 Baldwin Appeal. Unfortunately, the appeal will not
be processed.

Please see below. There are hyperlinks included in the email; let me know if any do not work for you.

If you would like to appeal, please state specifically what part of the Muni Code Section 17.10 or Design Standards is
violated by the permit.

Thank you,

Jason Hallare, P.E.
Senior Engineer | Public Works: Development
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403

O: 650-522-7316 | C: 650-437-3027

jhallare@cityofsanmateo.org

From: Jason Hallare
Sent: Monday, November 27, 2023 10:22 AM
To:

81 of 682


--- page 82 ---
Wireless Communications Permit 
 
82 of 682

--- page 83 ---
Public Works Department
www.cityofsanmateo.org
pweng@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7300
Engineering Division
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403
Revised: March 2021
Wireless Communications Facilities 
Permit Application
INSTRUCTIONS:
Prior to submittal of this Application, the Application Checklist and all other 
required materials, a meeting with staff is strongly encouraged. This voluntary 
informational meeting with City staff does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to 
begin.  
City staff may deem the application incomplete if the applicant fails to include 
any required information or materials. Applications shall comply with SMMC 
17.10 and the Design Standards and Application Requirements.
Applicants may submit applications by appointment only. Please contact the 
Public Works Department for an appointment.
Applicant:
Name: ______________________________________________________
Company: ___________________________________________________
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________
Authorized Representative:
Name: ___________________________________________________________
Company: ________________________________________________________
Mailing Address: ___________________________________________________
City, State, Zip: ____________________________________________________
Phone: ____________________________ Fax: __________________________
E-mail:  __________________________________________________________
Pole Owner:
Name: ______________________________________________________
Company: ___________________________________________________
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________
Pole Owner’s Signature:
_________________________________________________________________
Printed Name: _________________________________ Date: _______________
Applicant’s Signature: (if different from Property Owner)
_________________________________________________________________
Printed Name: _________________________________ Date: _______________
Proposed Site Location and Description:
Proposed Project Address: ________________________________________________________      Pole Number a:_____________________________________
Zoning District (for ROW, provide nearest zoning district): ________________________________     a If in the ROW, provide the pole number for the streetlight or pole.
Latitude/Longitude of Location: __________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Construction Value ($)/Project Description:   _______________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Applicant’s Request:
WIRELESS PERMIT 
SECTION 6409 APPROVAL            
__________________________________________________________________
STAFF USE ONLY
Applicable Shot Clock Period (for informational purposes only):
90 days
__________
Pre-App Submittal Meeting ________________________________________
Neighborhood Meeting ____________________________________________
Application Submittal _____________________________________________
Application Deemed Complete _____________________________________
Shot Clock Expiration _____________________________________________
Conditionally Approved ___________________________________________
Appeal _________________________________________________________
83 of 682

--- page 84 ---
Public Works Department
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
pweng@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7300
Engineering Division
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403
Revised: March 2021
Wireless Communications Facilities
Permit Application Checklist
INSTRUCTIONS:
Prior to submittal of this Application Checklist, Application and all other 
required materials, a meeting with City staff is strongly encouraged. The City 
also recommends applicant holds a voluntary neighborhood meeting. These 
voluntary meetings shall not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin.   
City staff may deem the application incomplete if the applicant fails to include 
any required information or materials. Applications shall comply with SMMC 
17.10 and Design Standards and Application Requirements. 
All starred (*) items in the checklist below are not required for a Section 
6409 Approval.
Applicants may submit applications by appointment only. Please contact the 
Public Works Department for an appointment.
Applicant:
Name: ______________________________________________________
Company: ___________________________________________________
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________
Proposed Site Location and Description:
Proposed Project Address: ___________________________________________
Project Description: _________________________________________________
Pole Number a:_____________________________________________________
a If in the ROW, provide the pole number for the streetlight or pole.
Applicant’s Request:
WIRELESS PERMIT 
SECTION 6409 APPROVAL
OTHER(describe request)
__________________________________
APPLICATION CHECKLIST – REQUIRED MATERIALS
APPLICATION FORM AND DEPOSIT
PROJECT PLANS
VOLUNTARY NEIGBORHOOD MEETING 
SUMMARY
[Attachment 1]
PHOTO SIMULATIONS
[Attachment 2]
PUBLIC NOTICE, AFFIDAVIT, LOG OF 
COMMENTS
[Attachment 3]
PRIOR PERMITS & REGULATORY 
APPROVALS
[Attachments 4a, 4b, 4c, 4d]
PROPERTY OWNER’S AUTHORIZATION
[Attachment 5]
INITIAL CEQA ASSESSMENT
[Attachment 6]
RF COMPLIANCE REPORT
[Attachment 7]
NOISE COMPLIANCE REPORT
[Attachment 8]
SECTION 6409 EVALUATION (if applicable)
[Attachment 9]
PROJECT PURPOSE AND TECHNICAL 
OBJECTIVES INFORMATION*
[Attachment 10]
ALTERNATIVE SITES ANALYSIS*
[Attachment 11]
STRUCTURAL CERTIFICATION (if applicable)
[Attachment 12] 
84 of 682

--- page 85 ---
APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS – REQUIRED MATERIALS
The following Application Requirements contain the requirements for a complete wireless facility permit application. For the 
application to be deemed complete, the applicant must submit all the applicable application materials in the Application 
Checklist in accordance with the Application Requirements along with all other generally applicable materials required for 
the requested permit or approval.
Notes: All starred (*) items are not required for a Section 6409 Approval. After the City issues the requested permit, the 
applicant must obtain all other required permits (including, without limitation and as applicable, building, electrical, plumbing, 
encroachment, etc.) prior to performing the installation.
APPLICATION FORM AND DEPOSIT
Instructions: Complete the Wireless Facilities Permit Application  available on the City’s website or at the Public Works 
Department and submit the corresponding application deposit for the requested permit or approval. You may find the City’s 
fee schedule on the City’s website or contact the Public Works Department for appropriate filing fees.
PROJECT PLANS
Instructions: Provide two sets of complete 24 x 36-inch project plans drawn to a scale of not less than 1/16" equals one 
foot and a digital file of such plans in portable document format (PDF). Project plans must contain all the following: 
1.
Cover Sheet
A complete cover sheet must include at a minimum:
a detailed project description that specifies the proposed installation and/or modifications including without 
limitation all physical elements such as antennas, radios, power services, all cables, mounts, and all other 
elements of the proposed project
site information that includes the proposed site address, site latitude and longitude (WGS 84 datum), zoning 
classification of the nearest private property, project team contact information  site map, and pole number (if 
applicable)
2.
Site Survey (Only required for proposed ground mounted equipment)
Only a California-registered Civil Engineer or licensed surveyor may prepare the site survey. A complete site survey 
must include:
property and right-of-way boundaries with all bearings, distances, monuments, iron rods, caps or other markers 
clearly shown and called out
boundaries for all easements and/or dedications with all dimensions clearly shown and called out
approximate topographical contour lines with elevations called out
any trees at least 4 inches in diameter at a point approximately 4.5 feet above ground
all structures or improvements on the property or within the right of way within any block partially or entirely occupied 
by the project and any elements thereof
all structures or improvements on adjacent parcels within 15 feet from the property line
a north arrow, date, scale and legend
wet stamp and wet signature from the licensed preparer
general specifications and notes identifying the applicable public health and safety codes and standards
85 of 682

--- page 86 ---
3.
Site Development Plan
A complete site development plan must include:
plan-view drawings, which include:
the entire property or right-of-way block with the proposed project improvements
detailed before-and-after views for any equipment pads, enclosures, cabinets, pedestals and/or vaults
all existing and proposed equipment with all dimensions, labels and ownership identifications clearly called 
out
boundaries for all easements, encroachments and/or other rights-of-way for access and utilities in 
connection with the wireless site with all dimensions clearly shown and called out
all existing and proposed primary and backup utilities, including without limitation all cables, connectors, 
risers, conduits, cable shrouds, trays, bridges and/or doghouses, transformers, disconnect switches, panels, 
meters, pedestals, cabinets, vaults, generators and/or generator sockets 
detailed before-and-after elevation drawings from all four cardinal directions, which include:
all existing and proposed structures, improvements and/or fixtures with all dimensions clearly called out
all existing and proposed equipment with all dimensions, labels and ownership identifications clearly called 
out
all existing and proposed fiber optic cables, conduits, risers, guy wires, anchors, primary and secondary 
power lines clearly called out
callouts and notes for any proposed new or extended concealment elements
a north arrow, date, scale and legend
4.
Equipment Inventory
The equipment inventory does not need to include primary utility cables, panels or cabinets, or any other objects not 
primarily designed or intended for radio communications purposes. All other equipment must be inventoried with the 
following information for each component:
manufacturer and model number
basic dimensions (height, width, length and weight)
table showing volumes of all equipment
VOLUNTARY NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING SUMMARY
Instructions: Provide a summary of neighborhood meeting if conducted. Label the summary as “Attachment 1 –
Neighborhood Meeting Summary” and attach it to the application. If a meeting is not conducted, mark the checklist box 
with an “X”.
PHOTO SIMULATIONS
Instructions: Provide photo simulations of the proposed project as constructed. The photo simulations must be in a high-
resolution format and show the proposed facility from reasonable line-of-sight locations that would accurately and reliably 
reflect the appearance of the proposed facility and/or modifications as-built. Label these photo simulations “Attachment 2 –
Photo Simulations” and attach them to this application. Except as otherwise provided, photo simulations must contain all 
the following:
86 of 682

--- page 87 ---
1.
Current Site Photographs
Current site photographs must include:
photographs of the existing site from at least two different reasonable line-of-sight locations from public streets 
or other adjacent viewpoints;
a map detail showing each location where a photograph was taken, the proposed site and the direction to the 
site from each photo location;
Include a close-up view of the equipment, including all wires, conduits, equipment, etc.
2.
Photo Simulations
Photo simulations must include:
an accurate and reliable visual representation of the proposed facility from the same reasonable line-of-sight 
locations used in the current site photographs and must include without limitation all interconnecting cables, 
conduits, brackets, and electronic equipment such as antennas, radio units, powering, and the like;
a map detail showing each location where a photograph was taken, the proposed site and the direction to the 
site from each photo location;
Include a close-up view of the equipment, including all wires, conduits, equipment, etc.
3.
Section 6409 Photo Simulation 
For Section 6409 Approval applications, the applicant must provide at least one photo simulation that demonstrates the 
impact of the proposed modification on all concealment elements of the support structure. Concealment elements include 
but are not limited to radomes, cable shrouds, painting, landscaping, equipment enclosures and designs and/or 
techniques intended to blend with the surrounding built and/or natural environment.
PUBLIC NOTICE, AFFIDAVIT, LOG OF COMMENTS
Instructions: Provide a copy of the notice mailed to all property owners and residents within 500’ of the proposed project, 
proof of notification mailing (affidavit), and log of concerns, comments, questions with response in accordance with the
Application Requirements and Design Standards.  Label the notice, affidavit and log “Attachment 3 – PUBLIC NOTICE, 
AFFIDAVIT, LOG” and attach it to this application.
PRIOR PERMITS AND REGULATORY APPROVALS
Instructions: Provide true and correct copies of all the following:
1.
Prior Permits
If the applicant requests a Section 6409 Approval, provide copies of all prior local regulatory approvals (original siting 
permits and any modification permits) issued for the facility with any corresponding conditions of approval and project 
plans approved by the applicable regulatory authority. Alternatively, the applicant may submit a written justification that 
sets forth the reasons why prior regulatory approvals were not required for the wireless facility at the time it was 
constructed or modified. Label this documentation “Attachment 4a – Prior Permits” and attach it to this application. 
2.
FCC Licenses
If the applicant or service provider proposes to operate in FCC-licensed spectrum, provide proof of licenses for all 
planned operating bands. If there are federal build-out requirements, indicate which and whether they have been fully 
satisfied. If not satisfied, indicate what remains to be satisfied. Label this documentation “Attachment 4b – FCC 
Licenses” and attach it to this application.
87 of 682

--- page 88 ---
3.
FAA Forms
If the proposed facility requires the applicant to file FAA form 7460 or other documentation under Federal Aviation 
Regulation Part 77.13 et seq., or under the FCC rules, provide such documentation. Label this documentation 
“Attachment 4c – FAA Forms” and attach it to this application.
4.
Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) / Wireless ID Registration (WIR)
For all applications for facilities in the public right-of-way, provide a true and correct copy of the applicant’s CPCN and/or 
WIR issued by the California Public Utilities Commission or its successor agency. Label this documentation “Attachment 
4d – CPCN / WIR” and attach it to this application.
POLE OWNER’S AUTHORIZATION
Instructions: For privately owned poles, provide a letter of authorization from the pole owner that authorizes the applicant 
to perform the installation or modification. The letter must be signed by the owner. In lieu of a letter of authorization for 
facilities in the public right-of-way, the applicant may submit the property owner’s standard authorization form issued in the 
property owner’s regular course of business to demonstrate that the applicant has the authority to perform the installation or 
modification. Label this authorization “Attachment 5 – Property Owner’s Authorization” and attach it to this application.
INITIAL CEQA ASSESSMENT
Instructions: Complete, sign and attach to this application a fully executed Environmental Information Form. Label this form 
“Attachment 6 – Environmental Information Form” and attach it to this application. The Environmental Information Form 
may be obtained electronically on the City’s website or by contacting the Public Works Department. 
RF COMPLIANCE REPORT
Instructions: Provide an RF exposure compliance report prepared and certified by an RF engineer that certifies that the 
proposed facility, as well as any collocated facilities and any cumulative emissions from adjacent areas, will comply with 
applicable federal RF human exposure standards and limits. At a minimum, the RF exposure compliance report must provide 
the same information and in the same form as the FCC LSGAC Appendix A form for each band of operations. For projects 
on or attached to poles subject to CPUC General Order 95 regulation, provide evidence of compliance with CPUC General 
Order 95, Rule 94. Label this report “Attachment 7 – RF Compliance Report” and attach it to this application. 
The RF compliance report must include: 
the actual frequency, actual or maximum power levels (in watts effective radiated power (ERP)), and the actual 
or maximum transmitting channels for all existing and proposed antennas at the site.
exhibits that show: 
the location and orientation of all transmitting antennas; 
the boundaries of areas with RF exposures (whether individually or cumulatively) in excess of the 
uncontrolled/general population limit (as that term is defined by the FCC); 
the boundaries of areas with RF exposures (whether individually or cumulatively) in excess of the 
controlled/occupational limit (as that term is defined by the FCC).
Note: Each such boundary must be clearly marked and identified for every transmitting antenna at the project site, whether 
owned/operated by the applicant or another licensee. To the extent that the project site contains collocated transmitters from 
multiple operators, the RF exposure compliance report must evaluate all the transmitting antennas that may cause cumulative 
emissions.
88 of 682

--- page 89 ---
NOISE COMPLIANCE REPORT
Instructions: Provide a noise compliance report for the proposed facility and all associated equipment including all 
environmental control units, sump pumps, temporary backup power generators, and permanent backup power generators in 
order to demonstrate compliance with the City’s noise regulations. The noise compliance report must be prepared and 
certified by an engineer and include an analysis of the manufacturers’ specifications for all noise-emitting equipment and a 
depiction of the proposed equipment relative to all adjacent property lines. In lieu of a noise compliance report, the applicant 
may submit evidence from the equipment manufacturer that the ambient noise emitted from all the proposed equipment will 
not, both individually and cumulatively, exceed the applicable limits. Label this analysis “Attachment 8 – Noise Compliance 
Report” and attach it to the application.
SECTION 6409 EVALUATION
Instructions: If the applicant requests approval pursuant to Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation 
Act of 2012 (codified as 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a)), the applicant must complete and submit justification whether the proposed 
modification is an eligible facilities request that complies with the applicable FCC substantial change thresholds. Label this
worksheet “Attachment 9 – Section 6409 Evaluation” and attach it to the application.
PROJECT PURPOSE AND TECHNICAL OBJECTIVES*
Instructions: For applications not subject to Section 6409, provide the following information to demonstrate the intended 
technical service objectives and the nature of the existing service capabilities of the applicant’s network in the area that would 
be served by the proposed facility or enhanced by the proposed modification. Label this analysis “Attachment 10 – Project 
Purpose and Technical Objectives” and attach it to the application.
1.
Project Purpose
Identify and describe the project purpose. Possible responses analyze whether the proposed facility or modification will: 
add new personal wireless service coverage to an area in which the licensee does not currently provide any 
personal wireless service coverage;
add new personal wireless service capacity to an area in which the licensee currently provides personal wireless 
service coverage.
If the project has a different purpose from the options described above, provide such purpose in full detail.
2.
Technical Objectives
Provide a detailed written statement that describes the technical objectives the applicant intends the proposed wireless 
facility to achieve and the factual reasons why the proposed location, centerline height and equipment configuration are 
necessary to achieve those objectives. In addition, the statement must include all the following required information 
and/or materials:
a street-level map that shows the general geographic area of the service area(s) to be improved through the 
proposed wireless facility (the “Service Area”);
a written narrative that describes the uses (commercial, residential, primary thoroughfare, highway, etc.) within 
the Service Area, and the manner in which those uses would be negatively affected if the Service Area were to 
remain unaddressed;
a statement as to whether the applicant conducted any drive test(s) and, if so, all drive test results and data (in 
.XLS or .CSV or similar format) together with a report that describes how and when the applicant conducted 
such test(s).
3.
Network Map
Provide an overview map of the applicant’s network within the City’s jurisdictional and territorial boundaries that shows 
(1) all the existing wireless facilities that applicant currently owns and/or operates and (2) all future wireless facilities that 
are reasonably foreseeable within two years of the application submission. The map must provide a legend that 
89 of 682

--- page 90 ---
distinguishes between “macro” cells and small cell facilities.
ALTERNATIVE SITES ANALYSIS*
Instructions: For applications not subject to Section 6409, provide a detailed written analysis that describes how the 
proposed wireless facility complies with all the applicable requirements in the San Mateo Municipal Code, which includes 
without limitation the provisions specific to wireless facilities, and all the alternative locations and designs considered before 
submitting this application. Label this analysis “Attachment 11 – Alternative Sites Analysis” and attach it to the application. 
The Alternative Sites Analysis shall be included as part of the neighborhood meeting, if conducted.  In addition, the analysis 
must include all the following required information and/or materials:
a street-level map that shows the general geographic area surrounding the proposed location annotated to show:
all existing wireless facilities within the relevant geographic area
the search ring used for this particular project.  The search ring shall be a minimum radius of 500’.
all locations for each alternative considered for this particular project
for each alternative site considered, a detailed written description that includes, without limitation all the following:
the nearest physical address
zoning district designation for the nearest private property
support structure type considered
general design concept and concealment elements/techniques considered
overall height and achievable antenna centerline height
the factual reasons why the applicant considered the potential alternative site location and/or design to 
be unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not in accordance with the development standards in San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. Note: This explanation must include a meaningful comparative 
analysis and such technical information and other factual justification as are necessary to document the 
reasons why each alternative is unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not as consistent with the 
development standards in Chapter 17.10. Conclusory statements that a particular alternative is 
unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not in accordance with the development standards in Chapter 
17.10 will be deemed incomplete.
If the applicant did not locate any alternatives within the search ring, the analysis must expressly state that no 
such alternatives were considered.
STRUCTURAL CERTIFICATION
Instructions: Provide certification prepared and stamped by a professionally licensed structural engineer certifying that the 
pole foundation and attachments meet or exceed design parameters detailed in the design standards. Label this analysis 
“Attachment 12 – Structural Certification” and attach it to the application.  
 
 
90 of 682

--- page 91 ---
Project Plans 
 
91 of 682

--- page 92 ---
eel

SY Mege tre cate cate Sm nao SME SE - Cnn Dg 0-1

CROWN
CASTLE

PROJECT NAME:
PROJECT ADDRESS:
COORDINATES:

POLE ID #:

PROJECT TYPE:

CUSTOMER NODE ID #:

CROWN NODE ID #:
HUB NAME:

CARRIER:

VCA2 PULGAS RIDGE

CROWN
ws CASTLE

11.1-Sheet Index

sheet # sheet Description Page (CROWN CASTLE
fia hime BEET i Ceomoasae
bas SIT PLAN z One PARC PLACE. STE, 00
iz POLE ELEVATIONS 2 Suaun cm ses
i Enstne oros +
pit SONSTRUCTION OETALE = RECORD DRAWINGS SSUE DATE
biz EvecTmicaL OETALS =
pis PV CRCUT ORG T
pia IEGUPHENT SPECIFICATIONS =

16 BALDWIN AVE, SAN MATEO, CA 94401

LAT: 37.565433°
2805

LONG: -122.327967°

EXISTING METAL STREETLIGHT POLE

580706
CA_SF_SANMATEO._ 209
PULGAS RIDGE
VERIZON

California and Nevada
Call Two Working Days Before You Dig!

Exp. 09/01/24

Kimley»Horn

23878 ENEASSY PARKWAY, SUITE 200
‘AKRON, OH 44333
PHONE: (26) 808-7778
‘WWW KIULEY-HORN.COM

‘THIS DRAWING IS COPYRIGHTED AND IS,
‘THE SOLE PROPERTY OF THE OWNER. ITIS.
PROOUCED SOLELY FOR USE BY THE
‘OWNER AND ITS APFLIATES.
REPRODUCTION OF USE OF THIS DRAWING
ANDIOR THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN
IT1S FORBIDDEN WITHOUT THE WRITTEN.
PERNIGGION OF THE OWNER,

RELEASE
CROWN CASTLE BILLING /SCU #: 507321 ees ee
PROJECT TEAM PROJECT SUMMARY NODE VICINITY MAP
on sSBUCANTINFO suaispIerion POLE OWNER INFO
copany: KMLEYOR pany GROMN CASTLE arty OF SAN NATE Git OF SAN WATE
Addeee: SE7SEMBASSY PKIW, SUITE 200Acess! 1 PARK PLAGE HANDICAPPED REQUIREMENTS SHOW 20TH AVENUE
Aipion on #050 DUBLIN, CA etson “FACLITY 15 UNMANNED AND NOT FOR REVISIONS
HUMAN HABITATION.
Contact TYLER REISETTER Contact JASON CAMARENA Ino] pare: cONMENT
Phone: 216273008 Phone: 025.201.5806, HANDICAPPED ACCESS: si eon
mal: yersisearkindey-ban com mai: ron camwenaaownosatecom FEQUREVENTS ARE NOT REQUIRED. 2 [to1162029) CousTaueTION
POWER COMPANY. 1 [prno2e?9| consTmucmon,
‘caown casTus untiTy conact FOUR COMPANY: [ADIACENT PARCEL INFORMATION: SguED TOR
seouscarne tire contact PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTAIC (PSE) ADUACENT EARCEL INE tinge 0 [osmecoaa|SSUEDFSR
Conmct EARLE CARA ZONING CLASSFICATION: CBOR Country
club a % PROJECT NAME
Email eaile.caion @erowncastie.com PLUMBING REQUIREMENTS: CA_SF_SANMATEO_209
FACILITY HAS NO PLUMBING SS A VCA2 PULGAS RIDGE
UZ s
coves: 3, "4
AALLWORK AND MATERIALS SHALL BE PERFORMED AND INSTALLED IN
[ACCORDANCE WITH THE CURRENT EDITIONS OF THE FOLLOWING CODES AS GROWN NODE Io NUMBER
[ADOPTED BY THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT AUTHORITIES. NOTHING I THESE.
PLANS IS TO BE CONSTRUED TO PERMIT WORK NOT CONFORMBVG TO THE 209
AREAS GOVERNING CODES. HILLSBOROUGI! * CA_SF_SANMATEO._!
1. CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE cBC-2010, (incorporated SANMATEO.
2. CAUFORNIA ADMINISTRATIVE CODE. (NCI. TITLES 24 & 25) 2018, Area) (incbrporatedv’Arthun’
3. ANSUEIN222+ LIFE SAFETY CODENFPA. wh, NODE ADDRESS
4 UILOING OFFICIALS AND CODE ADMINISTRATORS (OCA), Area)
§, CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE CEC-2018, S 16 BALDWIN AVE
&, CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE cMC-2018,
7, CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE CPC-2018, SAN MATEO, CA 94401
@ Local auLawe cones),
8. COUNTY ANDIOR COUNTY ORDINANCES. HUB NAME
1G, MUST COMPLY TO LATEST CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE (AND LATEST
MUNICIPAL FIRE CODE). PULGAS RIDGE
11, CAUFORNIA GENERAL ORDER 95 AND 128,
KH vosnumeen | [IN HOUSE
PROJECT DESCRIPTION KHOLE-s1923 SRAM owe
“ils PROJECT WIL INCLUDE THE INSTALLATION OF & NEW WIRELESS RADIO FACILITY AND ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT TO AN EXISTING METAL LIGHT POLE WITH EXISTING FOUNDATION, INSTALL POWER,
VAULT TO INTERCEPT THE EXISTING LIGHTING CIRCUT SHEET TE,
NEW EQUIPMENT WILL INCLUDE (REFER TO DETAIL PAGES FOR SPECIFICATION) ITLE SHEET
(2) 5G RADIOSIANTENNAS
(1) SORCTRATED SWART POLE METER
EXCAVATIONRESTORATION WILL INCLUDE:
@) GROUND WELLS rerwoween]) [Par
() POWER VAULT BELMONT = Belmont N
{@) TRENCH (incorporated y
Area) imme 71.1 1 OF 8
ASE ire ROTEGAE Ta Oanae BTR

92 of 682


--- page 93 ---
"amas eae

SY Mege tee cae cate Sm Mae SME SE - Cnn Deg 0-1

GENERAL PROJECT NOTES

ABBREVIATIONS AND SYMBOLS

POLE RISER PLAN

POLE 1o#:2008,

28°36" PLOT
44°17" PLOT:

=T"
10"

RIGHT-OF-WAY USE PERMIT SHALL BE OBTAINED BY CONTRACTOR PRIOR TO COMMENCING

WORK,

ALL WORK.TO BE CONDUCTED IN CITY RIGHT OF WAY, UN.O.

ALL DISTURBED LANDSCAPING SHALL BE REPLACED TO SWILAR EXISTING CONDITION.

[ANY SIDEWALK CLOSURE SHALL BE COORDINATED WITH THE CITY AND PROPER SIGNAGE WALL

BE PLACED.

TEMPORARY LIGHTING WILL 2 COORDINATED WITH CITY AND PROVIDED WHENEVER EXISTING.

LUGHTING Is REMOVED OR UNAVAILABLE AS REQUIRED.

16, NOMATERIALS OR EQUIPMENT SHALL BE STORED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY OR BLOCK ACCESS
TO PRIVATE PROPERTY.

7. CLEANUP OF THE WORK AREA WILL BE COMPLETED EACH EVENING AND THE PROJECT AREA
‘WILLE RETURNED TO EXISTING CONDITION AT THE COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION AT EACH
NODE LOCATION.

‘8, ALLWORK TO COMPLY WMTH OSHA AND CITY GUIDELINES.

‘9, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE TO REMOVE AND REPLACE. AT THEIR COST, ANY
AND ALL DAMAGED PAVEMENT, SIDEWALK, CURB AND GUTTER OUTSIDE THE PAY LIMIT.

DAMAGE QUE TO THEIR ACTMITIES ON THE PROJECT. THIS INCLUDES, AUT ISNOT LIMITED TO

THE REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT OF NEWLY CRACKED, THE REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT OF

EXISTING CRACKS WHERE THE CRACKS HAVE BEEN ENLARGED OUE TO THE CONTRACTORS

‘OPERATIONS, THE REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT OF DEFORMED PAVEMENT. CURB AND

GUTTER, SIDEWALK. ETC... ALL SAWCUTS USED FOR THE REMOVAL OF THESE ITEMS SHALL

BE PERPENDICULAR AND PARALLEL TO THE CENTERLINE CONTROLLING THAT ITEM, OR AT THE

DISCRETION OF THE CITY INSPECTOR,

PPP

CENTER LINE

PROPERTY LINE

RIGHT-OF-WAY

FIBER

as

Powen

SANITARY SEWER,

STORM ORAIN

WATER race

UcHT acu POWER.

(OVERHEAD UTIUTY LINE

ee

[ALL BLUE COLORED EQUIPMENT IS NEW OR EXISTING-T0-8E.MODIFIED|

PROPOSED ANTENNA AZIMUTHS CROWN CASTLE NODE #: CA_SF_SANMATEO_209

SECTOR 1: 30 \GPS COORDINATES:

SECTOR 2: 150

SECTOR 3: 270 LAT: 37,565433°

LONG: -122,327967°

CROWN
ws CASTLE

POLE TYPE: EXISTING METAL LIGHT POLE
POLE ID # 2805

ANTENNA RAD CENTER: 28-10"

CROWN CASTLE
CROWN CASTLE,

(ONE PARK PLACE, STE. 200,
DUBLIN, CA 94566

‘SUBJECT POLE IS LOCATED IN:
CITY OF SAN MATEO R.O.W.

‘RECORD DRAWINGS ISSUE DATE:
Yojie2023

Exp. 09/01/24

FACE OF

8" SEWER MAINS

FIBER VAULT.
(PERMITTED

S SEPARATELY BY
SS OTHERS)

RS NEW POWER VAULT.

2 (PLACE TO INTERCEPT EXISTING

ay STREET LIGHT CONDUIT)

REPLACE SIDEWALK THAT IS DAMAGE!
AS A RESULT OF CONSTRUCTION.
REPLACE FULL SIDEWALK PANELS FROM
SCORE LINE TO SCORE LINE. MATCH
EXISTING SIDEWALK CROSS SECTION
FOR REPLACEMENT SIDEWALK

EXISTING METAL LIGHT POLE

%

IBER
CONDUIT

POWER AND FIBER
CONDUIT TO POLE

APPROX. ROW LINE

“ASSUMED STREET LIGHT
ELECTRIC CONDUIT

STING
UTILITY VAULT
(TYP)

EXISTING,
STONE WALL

ONCRETE
SIDEWALK
(TYP.)

‘CROWN CASTLE NODE #:

CA_SF_SANMATEO_209
POLE ID #:
2805

\

PROTECT EXISTING ADA RAMP TO
REMAIN. IF THE ADA RAMP IS

DISTURBED, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL

ENSURE THAT ALL RESTORATION
COMPLIES WITH AH ADA CODE

8" SEWER warn

‘ACE OF
‘CURB (TYP)

EXISTING
BRICK
‘SIDEWALK

EXISTING
STONE WALL

EXISTING CONCRETE
‘SIDEWALK
(TYP.)

APPROX. ROW LINE (TYP)

APPROX. CALTRANS ROW LINE (TYP.)

“APPROX. P.U.E. LINE (TYP.)

Kimley»Horn

23878 ENEASSY PARKWAY, SUITE 200
‘AKRON, OH 44333
PHONE: (26) 808-7778
‘WWW KIULEY-HORN.COM

‘THIS DRAWING IS COPYRIGHTED AND IS,
‘THE SOLE PROPERTY OF THE OWNER. ITIS.
PROOUCED SOLELY FOR USE BY THE
‘OWNER AND ITS APFLIATES.
REPRODUCTION OF USE OF THIS DRAWING
ANDIOR THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN
IT1S FORBIDDEN WITHOUT THE WRITTEN.
PERNIGGION OF THE OWNER,

RELEASE
DATE SUBMITTAL

REVISIONS:
INo[ Dare:
2 fronezoza

‘COMMENT
TSSUED FOR
‘CONSTRUCTION

+ lormooaa| ESUED FOR

0 [owszoz9

PROJECT NAME,
VCA2 PULGAS RIDGE

‘GROWN NODE IO NUMBER
CA_SF_SANMATEO_209

NODE ADDRESS:

16 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401

HUB NAME
PULGAS RIDGE

[KH voB NuMBER _| [INHOUSE

DRAWN BY: OAD

4 KHCLE-31928
PROTECT EXISTING ADA RAMP TO. \ CHECKED BY: TOR
REMAIN, IF THE ADA RAMP IS & ‘SHEET TITLE
DISTURBED, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL \
ENSURE THAT ALL RESTORATION \ -” SITE PLAN
COMPLIES WITH AHJ ADA CODE APPROX. PLU. LINE: \

\ \
N
APPROX. CALTRANS , %, TD) | [seeernumser] [Pace
3 LV At. 2 OF8
EQUIPMENT AND ANTENNA PLAN 8 [OVERALL SITE PLAN Tier lor. t'= 39.9: += 2 2" | 20] [prorsonis: 13 eanae, 1261

93 of 682


--- page 94 ---
"amas eae

SY Mege tee cae cate Sm Mae SME SE - Cnn Deg 0-1

(E) POLE TYPE: METAL LIGHT POLE

(E) POLE HEIGHT: 31'-8"

(E) POLE OWNER: CITY OF SAN MATEO

(E) POLE ID #: 2805

NOTES:

1. ALL BLUE COLORED EQUIPMENT IS NEW OR
EXISTING-TO-BE-MODIFIED

2. ALL AZIMUTHS SHOWN ON THIS PAGE ARE GENERIC - SEE.
PAGE A1.1 FOR SPECIFIC AZIMUTH DETAILS

3. ALL NEW EQUIPMENT TO BE PAINTED / WRAPPED TO
MATCH POLE COLOR

POLE INFORMATION

SCALE:

NI.S,

Bus"

TOP _OF EXISTING POLE

f}————ExIsTING ETAL LIGHT

CL WOHT ATTACHMENT
on ae

POLE

— TOP OF SIGN
EL HT=I ACL

Top oF siGn EOTTOM OF SIGN
tL e974 ACL FL, E93" AGL
BOTTOM OF SIGH
EL, £710" AGL

GRADE

0

BALDAIN AVE.

‘CONCRETE FOUNDATION

(Se DETAL 18/01. & 10/01.4)

KEYNOTES:

0.5" MAXIMUM DIAMETER POLE PENETRATION FOR POWER, GROUNDING. AND FIBER

© thatesPee aoiontTenna. CONSTRUG TPROMIOE PENETRATIONS AN FITTINGS
THAT Ane WATERS TIOMT AND IMTHOUT SHARP EDGES.
{AxIIUM DIETER POLE PENETRATION FOR POWER, GROUNDING AND FIBER

© Conoutr-constnverenovbe PENETRATIONS AND FITINGE THAT ARE WATERS TIGHT
fib iout sHanp e0seS.

© 1° seH.40 RIGIO CONDUIT FOR POWER AND GROUNDING CABLES.

@ 18 scx. 40 plod CONDUIT FOR POWER, GROUNDING, AND FIBER CABLES,
a8

TOP OF EXISTING POLE
EL 31-8" AGL

cu uciT arraciment
rn
(3) RADIO/ANTENNA

H 1, £23'-0" AGL
SEE DETAL 1/01,1

EXISTING METAL UGHT POLE

RELOCATED TOP OF SIGN.
EL SIS 2" AGL

RELOCATED TOP _OF SIGN RELOCATED BOTTOM OF SIGN

EL E1010" AGL L EL, HTS" AGL
RF NOTICE SIGN
EL, #10'=0" AGL
Top 60a cr

(SEE DETAL 5/01.1)
4 fEi0cATED GoTTOM OF Sc 61. £810" AGL
EL #94" AGL sot, 60a cr
RATED SMART POLE METER
ee ao

(SEE DETAL 14/01.4)

“oRAe
00

BALDWIN AVE.

~— concRETE FOUNDATION

PROPOSED UNDERGROUND UTILITIES NOT SHOWN. SEE SITE PLAN,

Top OF EXISTING POLE
37-8" AGL

u cu Lich ATTACHMENT
we

}-_—sxsstng METAL LIGHT POLE

TOP OF SIGN,
EL STAT” ACL
BOTTOM OF SION

EL. #1510" AGL

ToP_OF SIGN,
EL S11” AGL
Top oF sign BOTTOM OF SIGN
EL 04" AL EL. £03" AGL
BOTTOM OF SIGN
EL E710" AGL
GRADE
EL S0=0)
p—————p—_t 4} p—_—_p—_
streerucHTns =| ‘CONCRETE FOUNDATION

conburr.

NOTES:

1. ALL BLUE COLORED EQUIPMENT IS NEWOR
EXISTING-TO-BE-MODIFIED

2. ALL AZIMUTHS SHOWN ON THIS PAGE ARE GENERIC - SEE
PAGE A1.1 FOR SPECIFIC AZIMUTH DETAILS

3. ALL NEW EQUIPMENT TO BE PAINTED / WRAPPED TO
MATCH POLE COLOR

KEYNOTES:

_~_ OS" MAXIMUM DIAMETER POLE PENETRATION FOR POWER GROUNONG, AND FIBER

© CABLES PER RADIOIANTENNA, CONSTRUCT/PROVIDE PENETRATIONS AND FITTINGS
THAT ARE WATER-TIGHT AND WITHOUT SHARP EDGES,

2 MAXIMUM DIAMETER POLE PENETRATION FOR POWER, GROUNDING, AND FIBER

‘CONDUIT. CONSTRUCTIPROVIDE PENETRATIONS AND FITTINGS THAT ARE WATER-TIGHT

[AND WITHOUT SHARP EDGES,

1° SCH. 40 RIGIO CONDUIT FOR POWER AND GROUNDING CABLES.

1.5" SCH, 40 RIGID CONDUIT FOR POWER, GROUNDING, AND FIBER CABLES.

OlOMC)

Top oF EnSTING POLE
EL Fs=6" ae

a CL_LIGHT_ ATTACHMENT.
cms oar a a
828-10" AGL.
GSE eras |

(3) RADIO/ANTENN,
(see vera 18/011 & 10/014) (1

CROWN
ws CASTLE

CROWN CASTLE
CROWN CASTLE,

(ONE PARK PLACE, STE. 200,
DUBLIN, CA 94566

‘RECORD DRAWINGS ISSUE DATE:
Yojie2023

Exp. 08/01/24

Kimley»Horn

23878 ENEASSY PARKWAY, SUITE 200
‘AKRON, OH 44333
PHONE: (26) 808-7778
‘WWW KIULEY-HORN.COM

‘THIS DRAWING IS COPYRIGHTED AND IS,
‘THE SOLE PROPERTY OF THE OWNER. ITIS.
PROOUCED SOLELY FOR USE BY THE
‘OWNER AND ITS APFLIATES.
REPRODUCTION OF USE OF THIS DRAWING
ANDIOR THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN
IT1S FORBIDDEN WITHOUT THE WRITTEN.
PERNIGGION OF THE OWNER,

RELOCATED TOP_OF SIGN
EL HO =10" AGL L +

RELOCATED BOTTOM OF SIGN
Ae a | 9-4" AGL
TOP 60k CT 8)
{RATED SMART POLE METER
ae
BOT. 60A CT
RATED SWART POLE METER
EL £7=0" AGL

(SEE DETAL 14701.4)

NEW POWER VAULT
(PLACE TO INTERCEPT
EXISTING STREET
LUigHTING CONDUM
‘GROUND WELL (TYP)
FIBER VAULT = SEE DETAIL SID1.2
(PERMITTED
SEPARATELY
BY OTHERS)

1.0" FIBER Cor
1.5" POWER & FIBER
‘CONDUIT TO POLE.

\
UstREeT usHTING.
‘conoutr.
SPLICE RiTO POWER,
vauLT

‘CONCRETE FOUNDATION.

SEE SITE PLAN FOR PROPOSED UNDERGROUND UTILITY LOCATIONS,

|POLE ELEVATIONS - EXISTING (LOOKING SOUTHWEST)

2a"936" PLOT:
11x17" PLOT: 3/16"

10"

POLE ELEVATIONS - PROPOSED (LOOKING SOUTHWEST)|

4°36" PLOT. 3I8"= 7-0"
‘1'x17" PLOT-3/16" = 10"

POLE ELEVATIONS - EXISTING (LOOKING SOUTHEAST)

24°36" PLOT.

POLE ELEVATIONS - PROPOSED (LOOKING SOUTHEAST) [2498 PLOT. 318

11x17" PLOT:

[1'x17" PLOT: 3/16"

RELEASE
DATE SUBMITTAL
fJ-_aisting METAL LIGHT POLE
To? oF sion
ae eo
BOTTOM OF SIGN
EL, 1510" AGL REVISIONS
[RELOCATED TOP OF SioN. INo[ Dare: ‘COMMENT
EL EIS=2" AGL 2 [loneacaa| SSUEDToR
RELOCATED BOTTOM OF SIGN 7 lorroneza] SUEDE
EL, STS AGL ‘GoNeTRUCTION
TSSUEDTOR
© [ososi2029) CONSTRUCTION
PROJECT NAME,

VCA2 PULGAS RIDGE

‘GROWN NODE IO NUMBER
CA_SF_SANMATEO_209

NODE ADDRESS:

16 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401

HUB NAME
PULGAS RIDGE

[KH voB NuMBER _| [INHOUSE

DRAWN BY: OAD

KHCLE-31923
CHECKED BY: TOR

‘SHEET TITLE,

OLE ELEVATIONS

sheeTnumpen| [PAGE

A1.2 3 OF 8

PLOTSCALE: 151 @ 24306, 12 @ 11%"

94 of 682


--- page 95 ---
POLE PHOTO - EXISTING

SCALE N.T.S.

8

POLE PHOTO - EXISTING.

SCALE: NI.S.

20

oe CROWN
ws» CASTLE

CROWN CASTLE
CROWN cASTU

(ONE PARK PLACE, STE. 200,
DUBLIN, CA 88568

‘RECORD DRAWINGS ISSUE DATE:
Yojie2023

Exp. 08/01/24

Kimley»Horn

23878 ENEASSY PARKWAY, SUITE 200
‘AKRON, OH 44333
PHONE: (26) 808-7778
‘WWW KIULEY-HORN.COM

‘THIS DRAWING IS COPYRIGHTED AND IS,
‘THE SOLE PROPERTY OF THE OWNER, ITIS

PERNIGGION OF THE OWNER,

RELEASE
DATE SUBMITTAL

REVISIONS:
INo[ Dare: ‘COMMENT
2 fronezoza

TSSUED FOR
‘CONSTRUCTION
4 prnor2025] CoNeTRUCTION

TESUED!
© [ososi2029) CONSTRUCTION

PROJECT NAME,
VCA2 PULGAS RIDGE

‘GROWN NODE IO NUMBER
CA_SF_SANMATEO_209

NODE ADDRESS:

16 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401

HUB NAME
PULGAS RIDGE

[KH voB NuMBER _| [INHOUSE

KHCLE-31923 DRAWN BY” of
CHECKED BY: TOR

‘SHEET TLE:

-XISTING PHOTOS

sHeeTNumBeR] [Pace

A1.3 4 OF 8

PLOTSCALE: 151 @ 24306, 12 @ 11%"

95 of 682


--- page 96 ---
"amas eae

SY Mege tee cae cate Sm Mae SME SE - Cnn Deg 0-1

A\ [CAUTION]

Keep Back___ FT From
this Antenna, FCC RF Public
Exposure Limits May Be
Exceeded Within This Distance.
Call 888-632-0931 for Instructions.
Qualified Workers:
FCC Occupational Limits May Be

y {NOTICE |

POLE WORKERS

There is an antenna operation
h on this pole. Please follow
guidance on signs near the antenna or
call the number below.
Site ID #

OCEs 888-632-0931

CROWN

‘THE SOLE PROPERTY OF NEW YORK
MANUFACTURING. ANY REPRODUCTION
INPART OR ASA WHOLE WITHOUT
WRITTEN PERMISSION OF NEW YORK

FILE: MAK-138

‘COMMENTS:

TEM | PARTNUMBER DESCRIPTION DIMENSIONS | MATERIAL | aT UNIT WT.
Yas or er CV we CASTLE
wath 267° | Steet
Heieht 5.75" | Galvanized CROWN CASTLE
CROWN CASTLE,
= — = = {Calen Street Rochester, NY 14611 ONE PARK PLAGE, STE. 200,
2 | exremcsro1/e70s | criason 6701/6705 | LangthS.a5" | Hot Roi Py Bits itches int :
Radio Mounting wiaths.2sr_| Steel DUBLIN, CA 24568,
wade Height. 750° | Gabraniced ‘PROPRIETARY ANO CONFIDENTIAL ‘RECORD DRAWINGS ISSUE DATE:
THEINFORMATION IN THIS DRAWING IS tonie2023

EXISTING METAL oe —/|

SIDE VIEW.

NOTE: CONTRACTOR TO SUPPLY ADDITIONAL HARDWARE FOR ATTACHMENT
AS NEEDED.

SUBGRADE-SCARIFIED AND COMPACTED
TO AT LEAST 95% OF THE MODIFIED
PROCTOR MAXIMUM DRY DENSITY

NOTES:

NO, 53 STONE

4. ALL SIDEWALK SHALL BE CONSTRUCTED WITH CONCRETE WITH A MINIMUM COMPRESSIVE STRENGTH OF
4,500 PSI AT 14 DAYS.

2. PROVIDE 1/2" EXPANSION JOINTS AT 20°, MAXIMUM, SPACING AND FILLED WITH PREMOLDED BITUMINOUS
EXPANSION JOINT FILLER MATERIAL OR REDWOOD. EXPANSION JOINTS SHALL HAVE #4 DOWELS, LUBRICATED,
18” LONG, AT 12" CENTERS, 6" FROM EDGE.

3, PROVIDE 3/8" GROOVED CONTROL JOINTS AT 5! CENTERS.

4, PROVIDE 1/2" BITUMINOUS EXPANSION JOINT FILLER MATERIAL WHERE WALK ABUTS EXISTING
IMPROVEMENTS AND AT ALL CHANGES IN GRADE

5. USE 2-#4 REINFORCING BARS, 10’ LONG OVER ALL UTILITY TRENCHES FOR NEW SIDEWALK AND CONNECTIONS
TO EXISTING SIDEWALK.

6. AT DRIVE APPROACHES, SIDEWALK PCC AND BASE THICKNESS SHALL MATCH THAT OF THE DRIVE.

CONCRETE SIDEWALK

NTS.

= Thie Ni Reva
Exceeded Within This Distance. ee exp 0570424
Tis "up/down
Site 1D # ma ——
RF CAUTION SIGNAGE SCALE: NTS| 1 [AF NOTICE SIGNAGE ‘SOALE: NTS (DESCRIPTION
Pole mount bracket for Ericsson 6705
lacie SSALANSCLMO 3/21/2022
ESOS PREPARED BY
=I nev] _D&ScRIPTION | OATe [ey Kimley» Horn
2875 EMBASSY PARKWAY. SLATE 200
PIN: BKT-ERICE701/6708 mannon natn
Wii KRMEHORNCOM
PAGE Tofe
Laciipenpaa “THIS DRAWING I COPYRIGHTED AND 8
NyMEMK-130-510-6705, THE GOLE PROPERTY OF THE OWNER. FFIS
PRCOUCED SOLELY ron USE BY THE
Sumer ano irs AFFILIATES.
REPRODUCTION on UBE OF THIS ORAWING
ANOIOR THE RFORMATION CONTAINED IN
MisronBiovEN whouT THe WANTEN
PEnNIGGION OF ME OVER.
PANEL ANTENNA/RADIO MOUNTING DETAIL (ERICSSON - STREETMACRO 6705) SCALE: NTS | 18| [RELEASE
DATE SUBMITTAL
P.0, CONCRETE PAVEMENT
6° x 6"W1.4x W1.4 WWF
xd GALVANIZED MATCH EXISTING
4"MIN REVISIONS
a Ino] pare: cONMENT
TSSUEDFOR
2 [roneaoaa
60A CT RATED _ + lormanons| SSUED FOR
SMART POLE coNsTucMON
METER 0 [pseaz029| SonsTaveTION
PROJECT NAME
VCA2 PULGAS RIDGE
STAINLESS STEEL BAND (TYP.)

EQUIPMENT MOUNTING DETAIL

SCALE: NTS

CONCRETE SIDEWALK STANDARD

SCALE: NTS | 20

‘GROWN NODE IO NUMBER
CA_SF_SANMATEO_209

NODE ADDRESS:

16 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401

HUB NAME
PULGAS RIDGE

[KH voB NuMBER _| [INHOUSE

DRAWN BY: OAD

KHOLE-31923
(CHECKED BY: TOR
‘SHEET TLE,
CONSTRUCTION
DETAILS
sHeeTNumBeR] [Pace
D141 5 OF 8

PLOTSCALE: 151 @ 24306, 12 @ 11%"

96 of 682


--- page 97 ---
"amas eae

SY Mege tee cae cate Sm Mae SME SE - Cnn Deg 0-1

CROWN
ws CASTLE

CROWN CASTLE
CROWN CASTLE,

(ONE PARK PLACE, STE. 200,
DUBLIN, CA 94566

‘RECORD DRAWINGS ISSUE DATE:
Yorie2023

FOR ALL COAX WATERPROOFING INSTALLATIONS, SEE NOTES: © GADWELD- SEE DETAR 181.1
INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS FOR, 2. MOUNT AVTENIA GROUND BUSS VERTIGALLY ‘A MECHANICAL ConNECTION
\JMA WIRELESS “JMA WEATHER PROTECTION SYSTEM" GRADE [GROUND BAR” COPPER «SIZE AS NEEDED
1. FOR1/2" CONNECTIONS TO ANTENNA OR DEVICE 282
5g? compen socuanouno xt
2, FOR 1/2" CONNECTIONS TO ANTENNA OR DEVICE USING. Hes ‘CADWELO GROUNDING WRE GROUND (YP. FOREA,
WSF CUTTER ia Le Be ee, on poten
3, FOR WPSAN, 1/2" NM CONNECTOR TO PORT { PERPLAN [ wsutston [TESTING RESLATS OF 8 Ohme
4, FORWPS-DRA, MALE TO PORT fe gen se commen LAD
5. FOR 1/4" CONNECTIONS TO ANTENNA OR DEVICE geonrovounoss oe | | /
CONNECTION (3/4°DIA. «10° /
USeo IN LEU OF ROO FF REGD ATENW GROUND BUSES x6 x #850uD, pw
See oe kee INSTALL BAR - PROVIDED BY CONTRACTOR POLE ‘MASTER BUS BAR
‘COAX WATERPROOFING - FUSION TAPE TYPE. SCALE: NTS | 5 | COAX WATERPROOFING - FUSION TAPE TYPE SCALE: NTS | 9 | GROUND BUS BAR DETAIL SCALE: NTS | 13 | EQUIPMENT GROUNDING SCHEMATIC DETAIL SCALE: NTS | 17
se we: SSI SALEM ROA sore
Aone is common? sere eases RESUREHENTS POWER CONSUMPTION TABLE [enous aan. corren.stzr as neebeD
caanene SERA SN Se ciate ae at acermman ne
pewove coat aie 4, CONTRACTOR SHELL PROBE AL LABOR AN MATERIAL DESCRIBED ON THIS DESCRIPTION = | QTY | (VA) size L cromonco-seeoeratoets
Eee ee cece sehermummegunactecoos qrorenn we 2 es ae
Heer ee REE scnocouur unuras une ee ee
” SSISILeR OLR cha an UA NS Rn STOTAL HOR SEN TNUOUS frees LT
coutmucron ga oeTenune TOTAL NON-CONTINUOUS _|1500
STEPS OBE SSHEDULE v0 PVG CONDUIT AND APPROPRIATE FTHUGS TO ENTER SR LOAD TOTAL KVA 500 | —_
‘CONTRACTOR TO NOTIFY ALL APPROPRIATE PARTIES PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION AND
— 2 Sa Sect Aa es semen eas TOTAL AMPS @ 240V_}e25 ropes
Garcoven_ | Snovcr stu crake SINGLE PHASE sua sa erpanoeo en BADIOANTENNAS
sete [ia Maertertee Atma nrvcnormanmreymsanoworoncn :
v2 Pete mnoceunes eenconmen cumcron oi nor FRAME SIZE son woensvsin
‘OWNER PRIOR TO DISTURBING OF MODIFYING. FUSE SIZE 8A
ca a amen rccicece
TADS eaten ae ete ARM RE oe
1s Rae nner ts ner enter ra tena
GOAKAL CABLE GROUNONNG seats nxs.[ 2 [ELECTRICAL Nores SENLE NONE] @ [POWER CONSUNETION TABLE sence wis [14

TUGMTING ORCUTT

cor esaccamm—— |

Gunvcoran staan

g

(nSTREET MACRO 670

OAT RATED SMART POLE
METER (SINGLE PHASE

"TW WARE, 2401, 604i)
‘WITH SA FUSES AND FUSE
REDUCERS ASNECESSARY.

rst

[a)#n2 ANG COPPERSTRANDID THW2
{a}n2 COPPERSTRAND GROUND

PART 2-ExEcuTION
21 EXECUTION

PROVIDE (1) WARN GROUND FROM! THE ANTENNA MOUNTING BRACKET AT THE TOP OF THE POLE, TO THE MAIN GROUND BUS BAR (TAGS) (LOCATION DEFINED BELON). MAN
‘VERTICAL GROUND SHALL CONSIST OF A # 2 SOLID BARE COPPER CABLE, SAID GROUND SHALL BE PROTECTED BY PVC U-GUARD TO THE TOP OF THE POLE ANID STAPLED
EVERY 2F WITH CORROSION RESISTANT (DIPPED GALVANIZED) STAPLES.

‘2.SOLID BARE COPPER GABLE Is HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE TO THEFT AND IAY BE ABIT EXCESSIVE TO AUN TO TOP OF POLE. #2TI\ COATED IS RECOMMENDED BY OPS. AS ITS
CHEAPER AND LESS LIKELY TO BE STOLEN. BUSS BARS MAY ALSO BE TIN COATED TO MAKE THEM LEGS SUSCEPTIBLE TO THEFT.

PROVIDE (1) MAN GROUND FROM THE MIAN GROUND BUS BAR (THGB) (LOCATION DEFBIED BELOW) TO A GROUND ROD AT THE POLE BASE. MAIN GROUND VERTICAL SHALL
CONSIST OF A # 2S0UD BARE COPPER CABLE, SAD GROUND SHALL BE PROTECTED BY APVC U-GUAAD TO THE BOTTOM OF THE POLE AND STAPLED EVERY 24" WITH
‘CORROSION RESISTANT (DIPPED GALVANIZED) STAPLES.

(GROUND ROD SHALL BE IN DEPTH MINILIUM AND COPPER CLAD,

(GROUND ROD SHALL BE PLAGED PER NEC CODE Wf REGARDS TO DEPTH AND DISTANCE FROM WOOD POLE,

(GROUND ROD SHALL BE BURIED MANIMUM OF SO" BELOW GRADE,

4? 2 GROUND SHALL BE ATTACHED DIRECTLY TO THE GROLIND ROD WA GAD WELD,

IAIN GROUND VERTICAL SHALL BE ATTACHED DIRECTLY TO A GROUND BUS BAR (TGB) MOUNTED TO THE FACE OF THE UTRITY POLE, METHOD OF CONTACT SHALL BE 2
HOLE SLOTTED LUG (BROWN) TO THE WAIN GROUND BUS (TMG) ON THE LEFT OR TOP SLOT DEPENDING ON THE ORIENTATION OF THE TMGB.

ARN GROUND VERTICAL TO THE ANTENNA MOUNTING BRACKET SHALL BE ATTACHED DIRECTLY TO THE ANTENNA BRACKET VIA SELF-TAPPING BOLT OR SCREW. A
WASHER MUST BE ADDED TO THE THRU BOLT OR SCREW TO AVOID DAMAGE TO THE LUG WHILE MAINTAINING A SECURE BOND.

‘TGB SHALL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE CHARLES CABINET BELOW THE RAH STANDOFF, DIRECTLY TO THE WOOD POLE STRUCTURE.

ALL POLE MOUNTED DEVICES, PICLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO: (ANTENA MOUNTS AND ANTENNAS, MOUNTPVG BRACKETS, CABINETS) SHALL BE CONNECTED TO THE
‘TUG WITH & #6 COPPER STRANDED CABLE UV COATED ANID GREEN IN COLOR,

ALL POLE MOUNTED DEVICES, ICLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO: (ANTENNA MOUNTS AND ANTENNAS, MOUNTPYG BRACKETS, CABINETS) SHALL BE CONNECTED TO THE
‘TGS USING COMPRESSION TYPE, 2HOLE COHINECTOR LUGS.

‘CONNECTOR LUGS MUST ATTACH TO THE BUS BAR WITH TWO HOLES FACING UP AND OUT WITH THE BOLT HEADS ARE ON THE BACK SIDE OF THE BUS BAR.
‘STACKING OF CONNECTOR LUGSIS PROITED.

PLACEMENT OF CONNECTOR LUGS ON FRONT ANID REAR FACE OF GROUNDING BAR IS PERMITTED.

[ANY HOOFICATIONS TO THE CONNECTOR LUGS IS PROHIBITED INGLUCING BUT NOT LIMITED TO GRINDING, CUTTING OR BENDING.

‘CONNECTOR LUGS l1UST BE PLACED WITH EVEN SPACIIIG AND MUST NOT COWE IN CONTACT WH ANOTHER CONVEGTOR LUG.

‘SLOTTED SIDE OF THE CONNEGTOR LUG SHOULD BE PLACED ON THE SLOTTED SIDE OF THE BUS BAR,

ALL CONECTOR LUGS SHALL HAVE TWO @ COMPRESSIONS PER LUG,

ALL CONHECTOR LUGS MUST HAVE 10-0 APPLEED TO AllY SIDES WHICH CONTACT ANOTHER METAL TO RETARD OMIDATION INGLUDING AID ESPECIALLY THE
‘COHOUCTORIN THE COMPRESSION END,

9. ALL CONNECTOR LUGS MUST BE PROPEFILY SEALED FROM WEATHER WITH HEAT SHRINK.

10, ALL CONNECTOR LUGS MUST BE ATTACHED USING 31" HAROWARE X 2PER EACH LUG AND IN THE FOLLOWING MANNER:

exepeee

4. FLATWASHER ON! THE BACKSIDE OF THE LUG

Bb. BOLTTHAU THE LUG HOLE FaciwG OUTWARD.

©. FLAT WASHER ON THE FRONT SIDE OF THE LUG.

6. LOCK WASHER ON THE FRONT SIDE OF THE FLAT WASHER,

(2) NUTON THE BOLT, TURNED TO "THAEE THREADS SHOVING AT MANIUN TORQUE”

f ALLNUTS OW CONNECTOR BOLTS MUST BE TIGHTENED GO THAT THE LOCK WASHERS
[ARE COMPLETELY COMPRESSED,

NO MECHANICAL CONNECTIONS AE ACCEPTABLE EXCEPT INTHE EVENT OF MECHANICAL FITTINGS BEING A INTEGRAL PART OF THE PRODUCT FROM THE FACTORY. Ie
(CHARLES CABIIET # 6 GROUND LUGS ON EACH SIDE OF THE CABWET.

EXCESS WELDS ON CADVELDS MUST BE GROUND OFF TO A SAFE TAPER.

[ALL EXPOSED MIETALLIC SURFACES MUST BE SPRAYED WH & PROTECTIVE COATING SUCH AS ZINCAT.

[ALL FITTINGS EXPOSEO TO ENVIRONMENT MUST BE SEALED WITH SHRINK WRAP,

1. EXPOSED “SHIERS" CONDUCTORS ARE PROMIBITED IF IN EXCESS OF 1/16TH OF AN RICH,

PART 3~ TESTING AND DOCUMENTATION.

Sa TESTING
A. SOHMSTO GROUND IS REQUIRED FOR ACCEPTANICE. IF S OHMS CANNOT BE MET WITH ABOVE REQUIREMENTS, ADDITIONAL GROUND RODS WILL BE ADDED TO THE FIELD
UNTIL OHISTS ACHIEVED.
‘32.D00UMENTATION
|A. PHOTOS OF THE TESTS ARE REQUIRED AS WELL AS TEST RESULTS IY FORMAL OOCUMENT FORMAT. SUBMIT RESULT OF TEST TO CC CONSTRUCTION MANAGER PRIOR TO
FINAL WALKTHROUGH. SUBIIT ALL PHOTOS AND TESTS WITH CLOSEOUT PACKAGE PER SECTION 017700 - CLOSEOUT PROCEDURES AN REQUIRED DOCUMENTS
ONE-LINE DIAGRAM SCALE: NTS | 4 | GROUNDING SPECIFICATIONS SCALE: NTS ] 12

ELEC, SMART METER /
DISCONNECT

1. ss soun

+e} #2 Treo sou

S)90IA.x COPPER
CLAD STEEL GROUNO
ROD AND TEST WELL,

TYP, - SEE DETAL 9)

THiS SHEET

EQUIPMENT GROUNDING SCHEMATIC DETAIL SCALE: NTS | 19

PREPARED BY:

Kimley»Horn

23878 ENEASSY PARKWAY, SUITE 200
‘AKRON, OH 44333
PHONE: (26) 808-7778
‘WWW KIULEY-HORN.COM

‘THIS DRAWING IS COPYRIGHTED AND IS,
‘THE SOLE PROPERTY OF THE OWNER. ITIS.
PROOUCED SOLELY FOR USE BY THE
‘OWNER AND ITS APFLIATES.
REPRODUCTION OF USE OF THIS DRAWING
ANDIOR THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN
IT1S FORBIDDEN WITHOUT THE WRITTEN.
PERNIGGION OF THE OWNER,

RELEASE
DATE

SUBMITTAL

REVISIONS:
INo[ Dare:
2 fronezoza

‘COMMENT
TSSUED FOR
‘CONSTRUCTION
1 fornoizezs| Senermucnon
0 [owszoz9

PROJECT NAME,
VCA2 PULGAS RIDGE

‘GROWN NODE IO NUMBER
CA_SF_SANMATEO_209

NODE ADDRESS:

16 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401

HUB NAME
PULGAS RIDGE

[KH voB NuMBER _| [INHOUSE

DRAWN BY: OAD

KHOLE-31923
(CHECKED BY: TOR
‘SHEET TITLE:
LECTRICAL DETAILS
sHeeTNumBeR] [Pace
D1.2 6 OF8

PLOTSCALE: 151 @ 24306, 12 @ 11%"

97 of 682


--- page 98 ---
LEGEND: CROWN
© POLE MOUNTED ELECTRICAL SERVICE ‘oe CASTLE
@ EXISTING LUMINAIRE POINT
CROWN CASTLE
One PARC PLACE. STE, 00
(#) LUMINAIRE W/ CELLULAR EQUIPMENT (CITY SERVICE BOX Dusk on sses
# CIRCUIT NUMBER CIN UNDERGROUND ELECTRICAL SERVICE
POINT
O PULL BOX (NO SPLICE)
(HH) HAND-HOLE (NO PULL BOX)
KEY MAP CREUT Wa STREET) warrace| CIRCUITS C14, C15, C16 AND C17 |*
Sat ce BALDWIN AVE, ELLSWORTH AVE, 1ST AVE i is
G7 | Saw WATE oR ey
SS - Cie LED comeaieaD Lr (c14) ] ip PREPARED BY.
=] RL, A To a 48 UPGRADE CONDUCTORS: Kimley »Horn
[agra cua seo ra oe 3 SEE CONDUCTOR sors ewease Paneuay, SUE 20
U0 fu nome i UPGRADE NOTES CONDUCTOR UPGRADE NOTES: ARON, ona
Se te Oe Be nome 3 wai ke - VERIFY CONDUCTOR UPGRADES MEET ALL APPLICABLE CODES a a eT
sev & remere cone M0 8 sea INCLUDING NEC AND NESC
SB Gar SS BSC Bo us - VERIFY CONDUCTOR UPGRADES AND EXISTING CONDUITS MEET
nisi, werronano cow reo pas sox . === APPLICABLE CONDUIT FILL CALCULATION REQUIREMENTS THe sous moresty OF Me OVERS
Se doe Hh cea aM - CONTACT ENGINEER IF CONDUCTOR UPGRADES DO NOT MEET croatses eter aes OY
SS Oe . APPLICABLE CODE REQUIREMENTS BASED ON EXISTING CONDITIONS SNDIOR THe RrOehiaTcn Conan HT
\\a \\eq AND EXISTING CONDUIT SIZING. UPGRADES WILL NEED TO BE Penuibaienor me oan TT
cena We Poe ee ce eH) EA" RE-DESIGNED RELEASE
coe ede swore gases \ - CONTACT ENGINEER IF EXISTING CONDUIT BLOCKAGE/BREAKAGE are Sue MITTAL
i \ ca se samareo one "i / ~ PREVENTS CONDUCTOR UPGRADE AS SHOWN. UPGRADES WILL NEED
See eR Seta a oF 7 LUMINAIRE WITH CELLULAR EQUIPMENT me ED ai TO BE RE-DESIGNED
Vel 3 i Electrical Engineer's Design Certification
=
ist Vy. zi 1, Dustin James Colwell, hereby declare the entire circuit (from the point of power connection to the REVISIONS
a5 last connected asset) involved has been properly surveyed by non-destructive means and all Ino] DATE ‘COMMENT
a? apparent loads, including any non-streetlight loads, are documented here within. Non-destructive 2 [reneacaa| SSUEDFOR
el go
| 3 zy means includes, but is not limited to, the following actions where demolition or damage will not be 1 forroraeza| SSUEDOR
OF incurred: circuit tracing, opening handholes/pull boxes, recording wire/fuse sizes, and penetrating 0 [owmszoza) SSUED FOR
2) | ame0 (a & rod. | also declare that the proposed electrical design is consistent with the City of San Mateo's
. current design standards for wireless facilities in the public Right-of-Way. PROJECT NAME
VCA2 PULGAS RIDGE
» fica ey sienca_ uae Cobutl pate 10/16/2023 »
ae GROWN NODE IO NUMBER
cats) Nea Wh R.E.E #22100 Exp 09/30/23 CA SF_SANMATEO_200
el
non vaats below. E-11|00/ 1.PROPOSED LIGHTING CIRCUIT FOR POWER SUPPLY IS UNDER 16 BALDWIN AVE
Calvo outs suet [ow t5o CONSTRUCTION BY THE CITY OF SAN MATEO. SEE PLANS FOR HIGH SAN MATEO, CA 94401
VOLTAGE STREETLIGHT CONVERSION (PHASE 3) PROJECT. SELECTED SooNe
LUMINAIRES CONTROLLED BY INDIVIDUAL PHOTOCELLS SHEETS PROVIDED FOR REFERENCE. PULGAS RIDGE
* POINT OF SERVICE NOT LOCATED
** TYPICAL SERVICE FUSE RATED AT 30A USED FOR CALCULATIONS. a OORT AND DURING CONSwRUCTON. AND THEIR CONTRACTOR ixnvos numeen | [INHOUSE
* KHCLE-31923  DRAWNBY. DAD
SERVICE POINT BREAKER CELLULAR | EXISTING |PROPOSED AMPERAGE CUMULATIVE : CHECKED BY: TOR
LOCATION CIRCUIT # | VOLTAGE | fice gize| POLE ID | EQUIPMENT | LUMINAIRE | LUMINAIRE VOLTAGE DROP 3.DO NOT CONNECT TO CITY LIGHTING CIRCUIT UNTIL CONSTRUCTION SHEET TITLE
(FUSE) WATTAGE w) wy EXISTING | PROPOSED | EXISTING | PROPOSED AND CONVERSION OF THE CIRCUIT IS COMPLETE. ony GIRCUT
2798 95
50 SAN MATEO DR. S 800 95 4,CONTACT THE ENGINEER IMMEDIATELY IF THERE ARE ANY
(ON BALDWIN AVE.) 1 240 30 2801 Be 1.98 8.23 0.48% 2.80% DISCREPANCIES FROM THE CIRCUIT CONSTRUCTION PLANS DATED caeerwuween] [Pace
2805 1500 95 5/17/2022. D13 7 OFB
CITY CIRCUIT DIAGRAM ‘SCALE: NTS 1 PLOT SCALE: 1:1 @ 24'x86", 1:2 @ 11x17"

98 of 682


--- page 99 ---
; CROWN
in CASTLE
T , 7 CROWN CASTLE
c cROMcASTIE
= lt Suauncnseee
RECORD DRAWINGS ISSUE OATE
‘Yonesoas
<> ‘TRANSFORMER-RATED SMARTPOLE
‘METER DISCONNECT BOX 1
neta eenroree Ea Streetmacro 6705 i
_[ ssuesouen — otesn.asy ce oes)
— =
Sera toor |
ewes mh _— a
= PREPARED BY:
Kimley»Horn
247 EMBASSY PARKAY.SUTE 200
AKRON, OF 4898,
sone: a) sors
win RDALEYHORNCOM
7 7 7 "59" 7 7 “THIS DRAWING I COPYRIGHTED AND 8
DIMENSIONS: 4.4" x 8.7" x 21.5' Wenn ee 7.9" x 14.4 THE SOLE SHOPERTY OF TE QUE. ITs
WEIGHT: 40.0 LBS an Sterobucnon on Use OF Tis OnAwme
VOLUME: 0.48 CF VOLUME: 0,39 CF ANDIOR THE INCORMATION CONTAINED IN
PemIeetOn OF ME Oven.
METER SPEC. (TESCO - CAT. 703) SCALE: NTS] 14 ANTENNA / RADIO SPEC (ERICSSON - STREETMACRO 6705) SCALE: NTS | 10 RELEASE
OATE SUBNATTAL
REVISIONS
Ino] pare COMMENT
2 [ronezo2s| SSUEDFOR
1 [orrooa3| SoneTaueTION
0 [esoei2oas | SSusTaUCTION
DEPTH | WIDTH | HEIGHT | VOLUME TOTAL PROJECT NAME
MANUFACTURER |MODEL UANTITY
(IN) (IN) (IN) (CF) a VOLUME (CF) VCA2 PULGAS RIDGE
ERICSSON. [STREETMACRO 6705 59 79 14.4 0.39) 3 117
NYM SRB 9 29 58 0.09) 3 0.26 ‘GROWN NODE IO NUMBER
NYM BKT-ERIC6701/6705 53 5.3. 18 0.03 3 0.09 CA_SF_SANMATEO_209
TESCO CAT. 703 44 87 215 0.48, 1 0.48
N/A 2x4 GALV. STEEL TUBE 2 4 20 0.09) 1 0.09) NODE ADDRESS
SUM 2.08 16 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
TUS NAME
PULGAS RIDGE
ixnvos numeen | [INHOUSE

KHCLE-31923 DRAWN BY” of
CHECKED BY: TOR

‘SHEET TITLE:

QUIPMENT
SPECIFICATIONS

sHeeTNumBeR] [Pace

D1.4 8 OF 8

EQUIPMENT INVENTORY TABLE SCALE: NTS | 12

PLOTSCALE: 151 @ 24306, 12 @ 11%"

99 of 682


--- page 100 ---
Photosimulations 
 
100 of 682

--- page 101 ---
EXISTING VIEW
CLOSE UP
CA_SF_SANMATEO_209
16 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
PHOTO SIMULATION
View 1
101 of 682

--- page 102 ---
CA_SF_SANMATEO_209
16 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
PHOTO SIMULATION
View 2
EXISTING VIEW
CLOSE UP
102 of 682

--- page 103 ---
1
2
CA_SF_SANMATEO_209
16 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
PHOTO SIMULATION
Aerial View
103 of 682

--- page 104 ---
Notification Affidavits 
 
104 of 682

--- page 105 ---
13520 Scarsdale Way 
 
 
Office: (760) 295-3951 
 
 
   info@titleprois.com
San Diego, CA 92128 
 
 
Fax: (760) 295-4038 
 
 
   www.titleprois.com
DECLARATION OF SERVICE BY MAIL
COMPANY NAME: 
KIMLEY-HORN
CUSTOMER NAME: 
TAYLOR BLANFORD
COMPANY ADDRESS: 
1300 CLAY ST, STE 325, OAKLAND, CA 94612
SITE: 
  
 
SAN MATEO SITE 209
SITE ADDRESS:  
Nearest Address: 16 Baldwin Ave, San Mateo, CA 94401
DECLARATION:
I, Sean Wilson, Of, Title Pro Information Systems, do hereby declare that on, JULY 20TH, 2023, I served by 
mail upon each
  OCCUPANT & OWNER WITHIN THE MAILING LIST PROVIDED BY THE CLIENT, of the 
above-designated premises/subject property area, by depositing in the United States Mail, with postage 
fully prepaid, copy of the Application Submittal for Wireless Facility Notification, a copy of which is 
attached hereto, giving the name(s) of the notice giver, site address of the subject property where the 
business is to be conducted, addressed to the Owner AND/OR Occupant for each of the following 
addresses: (see attached sheet(s)). (Note: Depending on the noticing requirements, we may have 
removed Duplicate Property Owners, Owner/Occupants from applicable address lists to prevent multiple 
notification.)
I declare under the penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct.
Executed at San Diego, California, this 20TH, day of JULY, 2023 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature  
105 of 682

--- page 106 ---
Page 1 of 2
Application Submittal for Wireless Facility 
July 11, 2023
Applicant:
Crown Castle 
Taylor Blanford
Permitting Agent
1300 Clay Street, Suite 325, Oakland, CA 94612
Taylor.Blanford@kimley-horn.com
(510) 210-3221
CC: northerncaliforniapubliccomments@crowncastle.com
(925) 701-7210
Dear Property Owner or Resident:
Crown Castle has submitted an application for a small wireless facility to be located in the right-of-way to the City 
of San Mateo Public Works Department.
San Mateo City Municipal Code
(SMMC) Section 17.10.050(d
to all property owners and residents within a 
500' radius of the proposed project site within five (5) calendar days of submission of the application to the City.
wireless facility
-powered, compact device used to provide wireless cellular service. The
proposed small wireless facility would be installed on pole 2805 at the location below.
Location:
Nearest Address: 
, San Mateo, CA 94401
The location was identified as the least intrusive location that meets specific wireless network coverage needs. 
In this case, the facility is proposed to be placed on an existing streetlight pole as shown on the last page of this 
notice. This small wireless facility will not require installation of any street-level equipment, such as data cabinets 
or electrical meter pedestals. If the application is approved by the City of San Mateo, installation is anticipated to 
begin Fall, 2023.
For information on the equipment or technical aspects of this installation, contact the Applicant listed at the top of 
this letter. Comments regarding aspects of the project other than radio frequency emissions, aesthetics, or 
requests for updates may be submitted to the Applicant within thirty (30) calendar days of this notice July 11, 
2023. Comments may be submitted via mail or email to the addresses listed for the Applicant.
Concerns related to the safety of radio frequency emissions should be directed to the Federal Communications 
Commission (FCC) Office of Engineering and Technology located at 445 12th St SW, Washington, DC, 20554. 
The FCC may also be reached at 1 (888) CALL-FCC. The FCC does not allow appeals when based solely on 
the environmental effects from radio frequency emissions that are compliant with applicable FCC regulations and 
guidelines.
Pursuant to US Code Title 47 section 332(c)(7)(B)(i)(II), local governments may not prohibit or have the effect of 
prohibiting the provision of cellular services in the municipalities they govern.
FCC rules do allow local governments to adopt design guidelines to guide infrastructure companies in the 
aesthetic design of their facilities. The City of San Mateo has done so and these guidelines are codified in the 
Right-of-
available at the following website:
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure
106 of 682

--- page 107 ---
Page 2 of 2 
Comments regarding compliance with the SMMC and corresponding Design Standards, should be emailed or 
mailed to the Comments Address listed below. 
 
Comments Address:  
City of San Mateo 
Attn: Public Works  Permitting Division 
RE Wireless Comments
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403 
Email: pwencroachment@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
Members of the public interested in receiving information on application decisions should sign up for 
notifications on the Small Cell Infrastructure webpage available at the following website, as no additional 
noticing will be provided: 
 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure.  
 
Decisions regarding this project may be appealed with in five (5) calendar days of the issuance of the Notice of 
Decision that will be posted on the webpage listed above. Appeals may be made in accordance with SMMC 
Section 17.10.070. Only persons who are the property owner or resident within 500' of the project site may 
appeal the decision by the Director to approve or deny an application for a wireless permit.  
 
Appeals can be made by filing a protest with the Secretary of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
(SIC) within five (5) calendar days of the issuance of the Notice of Decision. Protests can be filed with Cookie 
Kaplan, Secretary of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, Ryan Brunmeier, Assistant Engineer, City 
of San Mateo, 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403 or emailed to rbrunmeier@cityofsanmateo.org. If 
mailed, the postmark must be before the five (5) days or it will not be considered. 
 
Protests based solely on environmental effects from radio frequency emissions that are compliant with 
applicable FCC regulations and guidelines are not allowed by federal law. Anyone submitting a protest is 
encouraged to attend the SIC meeting when the protest is agendized. 
 
Location of Proposed Facility 
 
Photo Simulation of Proposed Facility 
 
107 of 682

--- page 108 ---
Property APN
RECIPIENT
ADDRESS
CITY
STATE Zip Code
109610010
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109650240
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1001
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650250
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1002
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650260
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1003
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650270
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1004
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650280
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1005
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650290
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1006
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650300
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1007
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650310
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1008
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650320
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1009
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650330
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1010
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650340
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1011
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650350
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1012
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650360
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1014
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650370
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1015
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650380
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1016
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650390
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1017
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650400
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1018
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650410
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1019
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650420
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1020
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650430
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1021
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650440
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1022
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650450
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1023
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650460
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 1024
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109610020
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 201
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610030
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 202
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610040
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 203
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610050
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 204
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610060
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 205
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610070
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 206
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610080
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 207
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610090
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 208
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610100
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 209
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610110
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 210
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610120
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 211
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610130
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 212
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610140
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 214
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610150
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 215
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610160
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 216
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610170
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 217
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610180
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 218
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610190
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 219
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610200
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 220
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610210
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 221
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610220
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 222
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610230
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 223
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610240
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 224
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109620010
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 301
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109620020
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 302
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109620030
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 303
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109620040
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 304
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109620050
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 305
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109620060
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 306
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109620070
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 307
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109620080
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 308
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109620090
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 309
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109620100
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 310
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109620110
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 311
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620120
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 312
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620130
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 314
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
108 of 682

--- page 109 ---
109620140
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 315
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620150
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 316
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620160
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 317
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620170
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 318
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620180
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 319
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620190
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 320
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620200
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 321
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620210
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 322
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620220
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 323
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620230
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 324
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620240
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 401
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620250
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 402
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620260
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 403
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620270
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 404
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620280
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 405
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620290
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 406
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620300
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 407
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620310
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 408
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620320
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 409
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620330
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 410
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620340
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 411
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620350
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 412
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620360
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 414
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620370
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 415
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620380
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 416
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109620390
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 417
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109620400
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 418
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109620410
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 419
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109620420
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 420
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109620430
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 421
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109620440
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 422
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109620450
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 423
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109620460
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 424
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630010
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 501
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630020
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 502
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630030
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 503
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630040
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 504
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630050
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 505
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630060
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 506
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630070
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 507
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630080
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 508
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630090
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 509
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630100
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 510
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630110
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 511
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630120
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 512
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630130
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 514
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630140
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 515
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630150
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 516
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630160
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 517
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630170
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 518
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630180
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 519
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630190
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 520
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630200
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 521
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630210
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 522
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630220
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 523
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630230
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 524
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630240
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 601
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630250
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 602
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630260
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 603
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630270
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 604
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630280
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 605
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109 of 682

--- page 110 ---
109630290
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 606
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630300
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 607
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630310
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 608
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630320
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 609
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630330
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 610
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630340
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 611
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630350
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 612
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630360
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 614
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630370
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 615
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630380
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 616
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630390
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 617
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630400
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 618
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630410
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 619
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630420
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 620
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630430
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 621
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630440
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 622
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630450
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 623
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630460
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 624
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109640010
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 701
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109640020
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 702
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109640030
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 703
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109640040
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 704
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109640050
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 705
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109640060
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 706
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109640070
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 707
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640080
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 708
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640090
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 709
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640100
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 710
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640110
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 711
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640120
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 712
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640130
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 714
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640140
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 715
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640150
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 716
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640160
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 717
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640170
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 718
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640180
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 719
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640190
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 720
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640200
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 721
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640210
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 722
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640220
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 723
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640230
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 724
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640240
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 801
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640250
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 802
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640260
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 803
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640270
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 804
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640280
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 805
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640290
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 806
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640300
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 807
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640310
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 808
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640320
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 809
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640330
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 810
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640340
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 811
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640350
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 812
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640360
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 814
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640370
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 815
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640380
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 816
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640390
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 817
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640400
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 818
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640410
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 819
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109640420
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 820
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109640430
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 821
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
110 of 682

--- page 111 ---
109640440
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 822
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109640450
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 823
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109640460
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 824
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650010
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 901
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650020
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 902
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650030
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 903
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650040
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 904
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650050
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 905
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650060
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 906
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650070
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 907
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650080
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 908
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650090
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 909
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650100
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 910
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650110
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 911
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650120
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 912
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650130
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 914
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650140
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 915
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650150
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 916
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650160
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 917
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650170
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 918
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650180
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 919
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650190
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 920
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650200
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 921
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650210
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 922
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650220
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 923
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650230
THE OCCUPANT
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 924
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
32441270
THE OCCUPANT
1 BAYWOOD AVE STE 1
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1537
32441270
THE OCCUPANT
1 BAYWOOD AVE STE 10
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1537
32441270
THE OCCUPANT
1 BAYWOOD AVE STE 11
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1537
32441270
THE OCCUPANT
1 BAYWOOD AVE STE 2
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1577
32441270
THE OCCUPANT
1 BAYWOOD AVE STE 3
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1537
32441270
THE OCCUPANT
1 BAYWOOD AVE STE 4
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1537
32441270
THE OCCUPANT
1 BAYWOOD AVE STE 5
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1537
32441270
THE OCCUPANT
1 BAYWOOD AVE STE 6
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1537
32441270
THE OCCUPANT
1 BAYWOOD AVE STE 7
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1537
32441270
THE OCCUPANT
1 BAYWOOD AVE STE 8
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1537
32441270
THE OCCUPANT
1 BAYWOOD AVE STE 9
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1537
104550010
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1101
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104550020
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1201
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104550030
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1202
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104550040
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1203
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104550050
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1204
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104550060
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1205
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104550070
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1206
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104550080
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1207
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104550090
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1208
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104550100
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1209
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104550110
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1210
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104560010
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1301
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104560020
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1302
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104560030
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1303
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560040
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1304
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560050
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1305
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560060
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1306
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560070
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1307
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560080
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1308
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560090
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1309
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560100
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1310
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560110
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1401
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560120
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1402
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560130
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1403
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
111 of 682

--- page 112 ---
104560140
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1404
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560150
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1405
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560160
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1406
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104560170
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1407
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104560180
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1408
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104560190
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1409
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104560200
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1410
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104560210
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1501
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104560220
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1502
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104560230
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1503
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104560240
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1504
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104560250
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1505
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104560260
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1506
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104560270
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1507
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104560280
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1508
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104560290
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1509
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104560300
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1510
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104570010
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 2111
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104570020
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 2112
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104570030
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 2113
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104570040
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 2114
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104570050
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 2211
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104570060
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 2212
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104570070
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 2213
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104570080
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 2214
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104570090
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 2311
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104570100
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 2312
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104570110
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 2313
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104570120
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 2314
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1599
104570130
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 2411
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1599
104570140
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 2412
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1599
104570150
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 2413
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1599
104570160
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 2414
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1599
104570170
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 2511
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1599
104570180
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 2512
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1599
104570190
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 2513
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1599
104570200
THE OCCUPANT
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 2514
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1599
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1001
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1240
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1002
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1240
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1003
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1240
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1004
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1241
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1005
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1241
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1006
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1241
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1007
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1241
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1008
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1241
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1009
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1241
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1010
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1241
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1011
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1241
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1012
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1242
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1014
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1242
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1016
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1242
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1101
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1242
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1102
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1242
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1103
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1242
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1104
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1242
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1105
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1242
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1106
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1242
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1107
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1243
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1108
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1243
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1112
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1243
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1114
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1243
112 of 682

--- page 113 ---
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 1116
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1243
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 112
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1227
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 114
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1227
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 116
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1227
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 201
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1227
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 202
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1227
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 203
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1227
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 204
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1227
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 205
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1228
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 206
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1228
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 207
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1228
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 208
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1228
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 209
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1228
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 210
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1228
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 211
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1228
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 214
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1226
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 216
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1226
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 301
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1226
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 302
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1226
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 303
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1226
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 304
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1226
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 305
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1226
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 306
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1229
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 307
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1229
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 308
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1229
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 309
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1229
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 310
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1229
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 311
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1229
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 312
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1229
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 314
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1229
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 316
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1230
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 401
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1230
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 402
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1230
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 403
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1230
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 404
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1230
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 405
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1230
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 406
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1230
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 407
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1231
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 408
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1231
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 409
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1231
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 410
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1231
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 411
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1231
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 412
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1231
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 414
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1231
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 416
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1232
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 501
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1232
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 502
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1232
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 503
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1232
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 504
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1232
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 505
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1232
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 506
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1232
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 507
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1232
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 508
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1233
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 509
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1233
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 510
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1233
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 511
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1233
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 512
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1233
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 514
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1233
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 516
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1233
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 601
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1233
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 602
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1234
113 of 682

--- page 114 ---
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 603
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1234
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 604
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1234
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 605
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1234
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 606
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1234
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 607
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1234
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 608
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1234
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 609
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1234
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 610
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1235
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 611
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1235
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 612
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1235
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 614
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1235
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 616
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1235
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 701
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1235
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 702
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1235
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 703
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1235
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 704
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1236
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 705
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1236
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 706
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1236
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 707
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1236
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 708
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1236
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 709
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1236
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 710
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1236
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 711
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1236
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 712
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1237
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 714
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1237
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 716
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1237
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 801
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1237
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 802
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1237
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 803
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1237
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 804
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1237
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 805
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1237
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 806
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1238
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 807
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1238
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 808
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1238
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 809
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1238
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 810
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1238
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 811
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1238
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 812
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1238
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 814
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1238
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 816
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1238
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 901
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1239
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 902
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1239
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 903
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1239
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 904
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1239
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 905
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1239
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 906
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1239
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 907
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1239
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 908
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1239
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 909
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1239
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 910
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1240
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 911
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1240
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 912
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1240
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 914
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1240
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD APT 916
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1240
32432040
THE OCCUPANT
10 DE SABLA RD OFC 
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1270
32442120
THE OCCUPANT
100 S EL CAMINO REAL
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3810
32442120
THE OCCUPANT
100 S EL CAMINO REAL A
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3810
32313070
THE OCCUPANT
100 S SAN MATEO DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3805
32442130
THE OCCUPANT
102 S EL CAMINO REAL
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3810
32442130
THE OCCUPANT
104 S EL CAMINO REAL
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3810
32312050
THE OCCUPANT
104 ST MATTHEWS AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2807
114 of 682

--- page 115 ---
32312170
THE OCCUPANT
109 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3821
32312170
THE OCCUPANT
109 BALDWIN AVE UNIT A
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3821
32431120
THE OCCUPANT
11 DE SABLA RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1207
32312050
THE OCCUPANT
110 ST MATTHEWS AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94401
123110020
THE OCCUPANT
111 SAINT MATTHEWS AVE APT 101
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-4517
123110110
THE OCCUPANT
111 SAINT MATTHEWS AVE APT 201
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-4518
123110200
THE OCCUPANT
111 SAINT MATTHEWS AVE APT 301
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-4519
123110280
THE OCCUPANT
111 SAINT MATTHEWS AVE APT 401
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-4520
32312160
THE OCCUPANT
115 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3821
32312160
THE OCCUPANT
115 BALDWIN AVE REAR
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3821
32312150
THE OCCUPANT
117 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94401
32312060
THE OCCUPANT
120 ST MATTHEWS AVE STE A
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2807
32312060
THE OCCUPANT
120 ST MATTHEWS AVE STE B
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2807
32312060
THE OCCUPANT
120 ST MATTHEWS AVE STE C
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2807
32312270
THE OCCUPANT
121 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94401
32312270
THE OCCUPANT
123 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94401
32313070
THE OCCUPANT
124 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94401
34141020
THE OCCUPANT
15 2ND AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3866
34141020
THE OCCUPANT
15 2ND AVE APT 1
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3866
34141020
THE OCCUPANT
15 2ND AVE APT 2
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3866
34141020
THE OCCUPANT
15 2ND AVE APT 3
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3866
32442110
THE OCCUPANT
15 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1518
32431120
THE OCCUPANT
15 DE SABLA RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1207
32313010
THE OCCUPANT
16 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94401
32431110
THE OCCUPANT
17 DE SABLA RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1207
32412220
THE OCCUPANT
18 DE SABLA RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1208
32431110
THE OCCUPANT
19 DE SABLA RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1207
32431010
THE OCCUPANT
20 BELFORD WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1206
32431100
THE OCCUPANT
21 DE SABLA RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1207
32431100
THE OCCUPANT
21 DE SABLA RD UNIT B
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1207
32431140
THE OCCUPANT
22 BAYWOOD AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1517
32412210
THE OCCUPANT
24 BAYTREE WAY APT 1
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1280
32412210
THE OCCUPANT
24 BAYTREE WAY APT 10
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1281
32412210
THE OCCUPANT
24 BAYTREE WAY APT 2
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1280
32412210
THE OCCUPANT
24 BAYTREE WAY APT 3
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1280
32412210
THE OCCUPANT
24 BAYTREE WAY APT 4
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1280
32412210
THE OCCUPANT
24 BAYTREE WAY APT 5
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1280
32412210
THE OCCUPANT
24 BAYTREE WAY APT 6
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1281
32412210
THE OCCUPANT
24 BAYTREE WAY APT 7
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1281
32412210
THE OCCUPANT
24 BAYTREE WAY APT 8
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1281
32412210
THE OCCUPANT
24 BAYTREE WAY APT 9
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1281
32431140
THE OCCUPANT
24 BAYWOOD AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1517
32441330
THE OCCUPANT
24 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD APT 1
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1525
32441330
THE OCCUPANT
24 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD APT 2
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1525
32441330
THE OCCUPANT
24 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD APT 3
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1525
32441330
THE OCCUPANT
24 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD APT 4
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1525
32441330
THE OCCUPANT
24 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD APT 5
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1525
32441330
THE OCCUPANT
24 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD APT 6
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1525
32441330
THE OCCUPANT
24 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD APT 7
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1525
32441330
THE OCCUPANT
24 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD APT 8
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1525
32412220
THE OCCUPANT
25 BAYTREE WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1203
32441310
THE OCCUPANT
29 BAYWOOD AVE STE 1
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1516
32431150
THE OCCUPANT
30 BAYWOOD AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1517
32441260
THE OCCUPANT
30 S EL CAMINO REAL
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3839
32431160
THE OCCUPANT
32 BAYWOOD AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1517
32431170
THE OCCUPANT
34 BAYWOOD AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1517
32441050
THE OCCUPANT
35 BAYWOOD AVE STE 1
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1516
32441050
THE OCCUPANT
35 BAYWOOD AVE STE 2
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1516
32441370
THE OCCUPANT
37 BAYWOOD AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1516
32441999
THE OCCUPANT
39 BAYWOOD AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94010
32441380
THE OCCUPANT
43 BAYWOOD AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1516
115 of 682

--- page 116 ---
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 100
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3831
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 105
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3831
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 120
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3831
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 125
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3859
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 150
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3832
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 160
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3859
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 180
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3859
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 200
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3859
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 230
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3842
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 260
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3859
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 270
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3859
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 280
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3859
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 300
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3861
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 320
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3861
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 330
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3861
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 340
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3861
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 350
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3833
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 360
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3833
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 370
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3833
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 380
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3865
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 400
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3861
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 420
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3861
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 430
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3861
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 440
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3833
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 460
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3833
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 470
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3833
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 480
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3833
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 488
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3833
32313060
THE OCCUPANT
50 S SAN MATEO DR STE 490
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3861
106540010
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 101
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2858
106540020
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 102
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2858
106540030
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 103
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2858
106540150
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 116
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2858
106540160
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 117
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2858
106540170
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 118
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2858
106540180
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 119
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2858
106550010
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 201
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2858
106550020
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 202
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2858
106550030
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 203
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2858
106550150
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 216
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106550160
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 217
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106550170
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 218
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106550180
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 219
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106550190
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 220
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106550200
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 221
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106560010
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 301
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106560020
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 302
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106560030
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 303
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106560150
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 316
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106560160
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 317
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106560170
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 318
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106560180
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 319
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106560190
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 320
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106560200
THE OCCUPANT
58 N EL CAMINO REAL APT 321
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 1
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1244
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 2
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1244
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 21
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1245
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 22
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1245
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 23
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1294
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 24
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1294
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 25
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1294
116 of 682

--- page 117 ---
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 26
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1294
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 27
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1294
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 28
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1246
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 3
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1244
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 31
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1246
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 32
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1246
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 33
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1246
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 34
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1246
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 35
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1247
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 36
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1247
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 37
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1247
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 38
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1247
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 4
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1244
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 5
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1244
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 6
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1245
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 7
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1245
32431130
THE OCCUPANT
7 DE SABLA RD APT 8
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1245
109650290
BASS REAL ESTATE HOLDINGS LLC
1 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3864
109640210
BAY AREA SENIOR SERVICES INC
1 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3864
109640330
BIANCO MARY L TR
1 BALDWIN AVE  #810
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109650250
WILLIAMS ELLEN S TR
1 BALDWIN AVE # 1002
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650350
O KANE PATRICIA A
1 BALDWIN AVE # 1012
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650400
THYSEN KAREN
1 BALDWIN AVE # 1018
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650460
SHEN MAMIE TR
1 BALDWIN AVE # 1024
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109610120
CHERUBINO NORMAN TR
1 BALDWIN AVE # 211
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610160
ASLESON PATRICIA S TR
1 BALDWIN AVE # 216
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610220
MANNION JOAN TR
1 BALDWIN AVE # 222
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109620150
DESAUTEL RICHARD D TR
1 BALDWIN AVE # 316
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620190
FELDMAN IRWIN
1 BALDWIN AVE # 320
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620290
GRUNFELD LIVIA TR
1 BALDWIN AVE # 406
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620440
RUTTKAMP THOMAS J
1 BALDWIN AVE # 422
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630020
GRISMORE GEORGE M TR
1 BALDWIN AVE # 502
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630140
WOOLSEY PATRICIA LEE TR
1 BALDWIN AVE # 515
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630220
SEGO MARTIN A TR
1 BALDWIN AVE # 523
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630430
MARTIN LOIS S TR
1 BALDWIN AVE # 621
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109640020
LIEBERMAN WILLIAM EA TR
1 BALDWIN AVE # 702
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109640040
ANDERSON BETH H TR
1 BALDWIN AVE # 704
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109640160
CARTER WILLIAM D TR
1 BALDWIN AVE # 717
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640170
BAY AREA SENIOR SERVICES INC
1 BALDWIN AVE # 718
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640240
LAWYER TIFFANY III TR
1 BALDWIN AVE # 801
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640250
SANDS BILLIE LOUISE TR
1 BALDWIN AVE # 802
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640290
BALESTRIERI FRANCES M TR
1 BALDWIN AVE # 806
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640450
GELLER BERYL G TR
1 BALDWIN AVE # 823
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109640460
BRUEGGEMAN LAWRENCE BERNARD TR
1 BALDWIN AVE # 824
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650120
WELCH WILLIAM B TR N/A
1 BALDWIN AVE # 912
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650240
DUDLEY LA QUITA JOY TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #1001
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650260
SHINE MARIANNE TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #1003
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650270
ELWOOD ELIZABETH KLEPPER TR ET AL
1 BALDWIN AVE #1004
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650280
WATSON JANICE DAAR TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #1005
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650300
BLACKIE BRUCE LOTHIAN TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #1007
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650320
WHITING GEORGE A TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #1009
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650330
DODSON RAYMOND J TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #1010
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650340
FRADEN ROSE TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #1011
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650360
ESKENAZI FLORA TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #1014
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650370
KWAN TERESA TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #1015
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650410
HIRSCH JUDITH L TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #1019
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650420
KOCHAVI EDI TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #1020
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650440
LUND ARTHUR K TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #1022
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109650450
MCBRIDE KEVIN L
1 BALDWIN AVE #1023
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109610020
GOLDBERG GLORIA H TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #201
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610030
FREEMAN RUTH A TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #202
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
117 of 682

--- page 118 ---
109610060
RUBEL SYLVIA TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #205
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610080
BOUCHER TERESA L TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #207
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610090
KIRKBRIDE PATRICIA
1 BALDWIN AVE #208
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610100
TSU PAULINE W TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #209
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610110
GROVE JANET L TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #210
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3864
109610150
IBUKA MICHIKO TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #215
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610200
MELTZER KARLEY T
1 BALDWIN AVE #220
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610210
BUNDGAARD GENE H TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #221
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109610240
LOGAN JAMES ROBERT TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #224
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109620010
HYLTON JEFFREY A TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #301
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109620040
HARTMANN VICTORIA JUNE TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #304
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109620060
DREES PHILIP A TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #306
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109620070
EDLEFSEN KAREN A TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #307
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109620080
HEIDENREICH SIGRID G TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #308
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109620120
NEIBAUER ROSALEE M TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #312
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620130
RIDGEWAY DIANE G TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #314
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620170
COLE JOAN C TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #318
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620180
BAY AREA SENIOR SERVICES INC
1 BALDWIN AVE #319
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620270
LOPEZGUERRA OSCAR E TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #404
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620280
DONAHUE M DOLORES TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #405
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620300
OGASHIWA FUMIE TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #407
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620310
SOKOLSKY MADELAINE TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #408
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620370
KEMENY KATY TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #415
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620380
SAIDY JOAN A TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #416
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109620390
SCADDEN DANA G TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #417
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109620400
WYANT POLLY A TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #418
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109620410
BURNS JOAN I TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #419
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109620420
NORTHERN TRUST BANK OF CA TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #420
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109620460
COURTNEY JOHN H TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #424
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630010
PREY DOROTHY M TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #501
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630030
YUEH JEAN C TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #503
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630040
WONG RITA FUNG TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #504
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630050
SHAIN CAROLYN N
1 BALDWIN AVE #505
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630060
OFFEL MIGNON B TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #506
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630090
HAYNES RUTH W TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #509
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630110
SIMONDS JANET W TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #511
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630130
OLIVIER CAROL M TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #514
SAN MATEO
CA
94402
109630180
PETERSON EVELYN J TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #519
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630200
JU CHIAO YING A
1 BALDWIN AVE #521
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630210
BARROWS MARGARET SHEILA TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #522
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630270
SEARS ALICE H TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #604
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630280
MENTZER EDWARD W
1 BALDWIN AVE #605
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630340
TOM ARTHUR M
1 BALDWIN AVE #611
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630350
RECHNITZ BEATRICE L TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #612
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630360
YAMAHIRO JACQUELINE C TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #614
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630380
KOHN JEAN G TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #616
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630400
BROWN CLAUDINE M TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #618
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630420
LEVIN WALLACE Z TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #620
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3864
109630450
TUCKMAN BETTY R TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #623
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630460
HIRASUNA JOHN T TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #624
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109640010
SHEA EDWARD T TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #701
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109640030
MCCLOSKEY KENNETH D TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #703
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109640050
TERANISHI MIYEKO TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #705
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109640060
NECKOWITZ REBA TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #706
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109640070
MELLES SARY TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #707
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640080
FOX MARTHA R TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #708
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640090
BRAUN IDA G TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #709
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640100
WEI THEODORE
1 BALDWIN AVE #710
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640110
JENNINGS PATRICIA A TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #711
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640120
TINDALE DEBORAH F TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #712
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640130
ELLIS VIRGINIA MICHAEL TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #714
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
118 of 682

--- page 119 ---
109640140
CARTER WILLIAM D TR ET AL LESSEE
1 BALDWIN AVE #717
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640180
KALLGREN EDWARD E TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #719
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640190
SILVERMAN SHARON M TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #720
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640200
ERIKSON MARY ANN TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #721
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640220
CARPIGNANO JOSEPHINE TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #723
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640230
ORFANS DEMERTRIUS S TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #724
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640260
OLIFF ADRIENNE K TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #803
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640270
WOHLER JENNIE W TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #804
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640310
SNIDER RAYMOND L TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #808
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640350
CHAN REYEMOND H TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #812
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640360
CHENLOUIE THERESA T TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #814
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640380
HERMANN JUDITH G TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #816
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640390
HOLMKVIST DAVID A
1 BALDWIN AVE #817
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640400
MERRIMEE SUSANNA N TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #818
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640410
TU ANTHONY T TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #819
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109640420
CALLAGHAN CHARLES G TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #820
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109640430
MUI BERNICE Y TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #821
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109640440
TANSILL CAROL M TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #822
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650010
SCOTT GERALD F TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #901
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650020
SMIRLE EVELYN DOROTHY TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #902
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650030
KAPLAN RITA TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #903
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650040
OCONNELL MARY SUE TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #904
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650050
CHAO LINDA T TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #905
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650060
SHAYER BELLE TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #906
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650070
FISCHER JAMES W TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #907
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650090
OKIMOTO NANCY E TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #909
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650110
HEUMANN MARJORIE TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #911
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650130
KNECHT MARLENE TR LESSEE
1 BALDWIN AVE #914
SAN MATEO
CA
94402
109650170
BROHM ROBERT J TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #918
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650200
SIMON MARILYN TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #921
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650210
PAUSNER JOSEPH J JR TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #922
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650220
RABIN JANETTE L TR
1 BALDWIN AVE #923
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109610190
BAY AREA SENIOR SERVICES INC
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 219
SAN MATEO
CA
94402
109650080
MORSI HOSSAM M TR
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 908
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650150
HAMAMURA KENNETH S TR
1 BALDWIN AVE APT 916
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650310
SAMUEL-ZULCH CYNTHIA TR
1 BALDWIN AVENUE #1008
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3853
109620430
ZANE RHODA TOM TR
1 BALDWIN AVENUE #421
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630120
GIRGIS TERESA Y TR
1 BALDWIN AVENUE #512
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
34141020
RECTOR WARDENS & VESTRYMEN OF
1 S EL CAMINO REAL
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3800
109610010
BASS REAL ESTATE HOLDINGS LLC
1 WEST MAIN ST STE 303
MEDFORD
OR
97501-2796
104560040
LLOYD MOSTYN T TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRING ROAD #1304
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560020
GROSS LINDSAY S TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS #1302
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104560160
COLLIER BETTY MARIE TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS DR #1406
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104550010
ASH STREET GREEN PARTNERS LLC
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-7119
104560050
KUO TZEEKE TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD  #1305
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560220
SCHULZ HAROLD P TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD # 1502
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104560280
LEGALLET PAUL III TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD # 1508
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104570010
CHEN SALLY TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD # 2111
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104570020
BRAUN BARBARA M TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD # 2112
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104570090
LING CATHY Y TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD # 2311
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104550040
MAYNARD CHARLES G TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #1203
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104550110
HOFFMAN RUDOLPH A TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #1210
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104560010
NAIK BOLAR JEEVANDAS TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #1301
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104560060
GOGOL STANLEY D TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #1306
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560070
GOSHO CAROL TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #1307
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560130
RYAN SUSAN E TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #1403
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560150
WAN RICHARD C TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #1405
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560170
HINDAHL EVA GONERKO TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #1407
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104560180
DOX JAMES B TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #1408
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104560210
WONG SHELDON M TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #1501
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104560240
MOHR SANDRA S TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #1504
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
119 of 682

--- page 120 ---
104560250
RUDOLPH CAROLYN J TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #1505
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104560260
MILANI JOANNE TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #1506
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104560270
FOMIL  SHARON H TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #1507
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104560290
SPADARELLA IDA TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #1509
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104560300
MAAS DAVID N TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #1510
SAN MATEO
CA
94401
104570030
SPAETE RICHARD R TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #2113
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104570050
GUSTAFSON LEWIS B TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #2211
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104570060
COOPER CHERYL B TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #2212
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104570070
CAPLAN SHELLY TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #2213
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104570140
CLARK JAMES RYAN TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #2412
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1599
104570180
PHILLIPS JANE LANGWORTHY
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD #2512
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1599
104560090
YOUNG FRED K W TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD 1309
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560110
VOTEY ELIZABETH B TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD 1401
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560140
SCHREIBER HENRY TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD 1404
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560200
BRAWNER LINDA B TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD 1410
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1536
104550020
KAVICH DORIS TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD APT 1201
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104570150
HSIN YVONNE TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD APT# 2413
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1599
104550050
CROSS ROBERT H TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 1204
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104570110
MONACO ALBERT MARION JR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD UNIT 2313
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104550060
MAYO MARY AIM TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS ROAD #1205
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104550070
RINGOEN CAROLE J TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS ROAD #1206
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104550090
GALANTE DOROTHY TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS ROAD #1208
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104550100
GEMMET JUDITH A TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS ROAD #1209
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1535
104560100
HEISS SUSAN G TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS ROAD #1310
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104560120
WEINBERG BETTY JO TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS ROAD #1402
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1598
104570040
BERBERIAN ANGIE M TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS ROAD #2114
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1565
104570120
COBAR RAOUL RENE
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS ROAD #2314
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
104570130
DUFFEY CHARLES H TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS ROAD #2411
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1599
104570160
MAUSS RAYMOND F TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS ROAD #2414
SAN MATEO
CA
94401
104570190
FATHI SALIMI MAHSHID TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS ROAD #2513
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1599
104570200
MORGAN DAVID JAY TR
10 CRYSTAL SPRINGS ROAD #2514
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1599
104560080
KATZIVE ROBERT H TR
10 CRYSTALS SPRINGS RD #1308
SAN MATEO
CA
94401
32432040
DE SABLA APARTMENTS LLC
10 DE SABLA RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1273
32312270
MILLS MEMORIAL HOSP FNDN TR
100 S SAN MATEO DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3805
109620030
GERRITSEN GEORGIA NATALIE TR ET AL
1000 PARK PL APT P
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-7112
109630310
LI STEPHEN TR
1001 UNDERHILLS RD
OAKLAND
CA
94610-2528
32441310
SAN MATEO LAND EXCHANGE
101 MONTGOMERY ST STE 888
SAN FRANCISCO
CA
94104-4149
109630250
WEIR WILLIAM T TR
1010 KATHERINE AVE
REDWOOD CITY
CA
94062-2029
32442130
KIR CHUN PANG TR
1035 MACADAMIA DR
HILLSBOROUGH
CA
94010-6216
32312170
VP BALDWIN PARTNERS LLC
109 BALDWIN AVENUE
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3821
123110020
ABHISHEK VINEET
111 SAINT MATTHEWS AVENUE #101
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-4517
123110200
POTTS PETER JOHN
111 ST MATTHEWS AVE # 301
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-4519
109630170
KUBY SYBIL TR
1119 SUSSEX SQ
MOUNTAIN VIEW
CA
94040-3278
104570080
ZEFF DAVID ADAM TR
11499 CONNER ST HANGER #6
DETROIT
MI
48213-1252
32312160
HAMILTON MICHAEL SANTOS
115 BALDWIN AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3821
106550170
GLASSMAN FRANK M TR
1224 TILIA ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94401
109630150
ENGLISH FANITA TR EST OF
1236 MONTGOMERY ST
SAN FRANCISCO
CA
94133-3510
109610050
SUTHERLIN DANIEL PHILIP TR
1244 CORTEZ AVE
BURLINGAME
CA
94010-4859
104560230
LEVINE DAVID K TR
1324 DRAKE AVE
BURLINGAME
CA
94010-4719
109640300
CHAN ANDREA TR
1330 UNIVERSITY DR #32
MENLO PARK
CA
94025-4241
104570100
GASPARINI LOUIS TR
1426 PARROTT DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-3633
109620250
BERRY JEFFREY G TR
149 KAREN WY
ATHERTON
CA
94027-6415
123110280
LI HO CHING CHRISTY
1515 FLORIBUNDA AVE APT 210
BURLINGAME
CA
94010-3865
109640370
MLECZKO-ANDRADE ELENA A TR
155 JUANITA WAY
SAN FRANCISCO
CA
94127-1740
32312050
104 ST MATTHEWS AVENUE LLC
1550 LAKEVIEW DR
HILLSBOROUGH
CA
94010-7331
109610070
FINCH ELLEN L TR
1700 PINE KNOLL DR
BELMONT
CA
94002-1933
104550030
FELDBRILL WILLIAM R
175 WINDEMERE RD
HILLSBOROUGH
CA
94010-7346
104570170
JELLIN EVA TR
1807 GLENN PL
DAVIS
CA
95616-3170
109610230
FEINBERG ADELLA HARRIS TR
1900 CARMELITA AVE
BURLINGAME
CA
94010-4909
104550080
MEYERS JAMES ROBERT TR
1900 WILLOW RD
HILLSBOROUGH
CA
94010-6358
32431010
DORRICOTT ROBERT P TR
20 BELFORD WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1206
120 of 682

--- page 121 ---
109620450
BECKER DANIEL F TR
2035 TICONDEROGA DRIVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-4019
104560190
MANEATIS CELIA TR
205 DE ANZA BLVD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-3989
32441330
FUNPLAY REALTY LLC
20660 STEVENS CREEK BLVD #202
CUPERTINO
CA
95014-2120
32431100
ROGERS STEPHEN E TR
21 DE SABLA RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1207
32442120
WU JEAN MENG
217 WINWOOD AVE
PACIFICA
CA
94044-1454
106540160
MACKAY DONALDA RENATE TR
22 RAYMOND CT
SAN CARLOS
CA
94070-4338
32431140
SNYDER MERVIN TR
24 BAYWOOD AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1517
106560030
LIN MARY TR
245 SANTA ANA AVE
SAN FRANCISCO
CA
94127-1921
109650160
ROSS HELGA TR
248 KNIGHT DR
SAN RAFAEL
CA
94901-1430
109620020
HIDZICK GEORGE J TR
2659 SEQUOIA CREEK DR
SAN JOSE
CA
95121-3207
106560180
DICICCO KIRK A TR
2795 GOLF CIR
WATSONVILLE
CA
95076-5465
32442110
WU AARON W
2855 CANYON ROAD
BURLINGAME
CA
94010-6014
109620110
SALDICH ANNE RAWLEY TR
2862 WEBSTER ST
BERKELEY
CA
94705-2617
32431150
WANG HUEY-YI CHANG TR
30 VERBALEE LANE
HILLSBOROUGH
CA
94010-7435
32412220
MONFREDINI JOHN C TR
311 PARROTT DRIVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-2259
32431160
HUDSON MARK E & JANICE M
32 BAYWOOD AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1517
109630160
COLVIN LAWRENCE HAROLD TR
32 CARMELITA AVE
MILL VALLEY
CA
94941-2048
123110110
HUANG CHENG-CHER T/D
324 PRINCETON RD
MENLO PARK
CA
94025-5220
32431170
CHANG ROXANNE TR
34 BAYWOOD AVENUE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1517
32441370
DECONTRERAS ROBERT TR
37 BAYWOOD AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1516
109630080
ROBERTS THOMAS M TR LESSEE
38 B LINDEN RD
HARTLAND
VT
05048-8104
109620100
RICHARD DAVID A TR
3846 PACIFIC COAST HIGHWY
VENTURA
CA
93001-9745
109620350
WOLPER MARILYN TR
4 LASSEN CT
MENLO PARK
CA
94025-6655
109620160
NICHOLS MARION H TR
41 LILAC LN
CARMEL VALLEY
CA
93924-9624
109610040
RUSSELL LYNNE ELIZABETH TR
413 HILLSIDE DR
BOULDER CREEK
CA
95006-9087
109630070
NEWMAN DAVID R TR
417 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1008
32441380
DELEHANTY KEVIN MONROE
43 BAYWOOD AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1516
109610130
PHAN CYNTHIA H TR EST OF
4635 CATALINA DR
SAN JOSE
CA
95129-3359
109620340
ATKINSON GORDON COX TR
471 7TH AVE APT #1
SAN FRANCISCO
CA
94118-3011
32431110
MONFREDINI JAMES J TR
50 SAN LEANDRO WAY
SAN FRANCISCO
CA
94127-1506
106550180
HAVENS LUZANNE
5213 CEDAR GROVE WY
LAWRENCE
KS
66049-3616
32312060
DJG PROPERTY GROUP LLC
552 RAVENSCOURT RD
HILLSBOROUGH
CA
94010-6838
32441270
SPARKS SUSAN C B TR ETAL
555 PRICE AVE #150
REDWOOD CITY
CA
94063-1417
106560200
SANTANA MARY L
58 EL CAMINO REAL #321
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106540150
WIGLER DARLENE TR
58 EL CAMINO RL #116
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2858
106560170
LEE SUSAN
58 N EL CAMINO REAL # 318
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106540020
SEIDSCHER MARCYL TR
58 N EL CAMINO REAL #102
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2858
106540180
WONG KEVIN CRAIG
58 N EL CAMINO REAL #119
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2858
106550010
CHAN DAVID W TR
58 N EL CAMINO REAL #201
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2858
106550020
WU HUANYU
58 N EL CAMINO REAL #202
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2858
106550160
AFKHAMPOUR CYRUS D
58 N EL CAMINO REAL #217
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106560010
SHAH ROHAN PRADIP
58 N EL CAMINO REAL #301
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106560020
PEDAGAT RAYMOND
58 N EL CAMINO REAL #302
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106560160
CHU ENLAI
58 N EL CAMINO REAL #317
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106560150
CONNORS RAYMOND G TR
58 N EL CAMINO REAL UNIT #316
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106550190
MULKEEN THOMAS E
58 N EL CAMINO RL #220
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106540030
PENG CHI-CHI
58 NO EL CAMINO REAL #103
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2858
106540170
MENDOZA PILAR JOSEFINA TR
58 NO EL CAMINO REAL #118
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2858
106560190
KELLY NANCY C TR
58 NO EL CAMINO REAL #320
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2859
106550030
MATESKY LEONARD M
58 NORTH EL CAMINO REAL #203
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-2858
109650380
BASTA LAILA L TR
590 BERKELEY AVE
MENLO PARK
CA
94025-2323
109630290
MARKS SIDNEY TR
628 OLIVE ST
MENLO PARK
CA
94025-5745
109630260
SHAW JANET TR ET AL
654 A AVE
CORONADO
CA
92118-2205
104560030
EISNER ALEXANDER S & M C TRUST
655 MARINERS ISLAND LVD #302
SAN MATEO
CA
94404-1061
32431120
VISTA REAL PROPERTIES INC
700 EL CAMINO REAL
SAN CARLOS
CA
94070-3106
109640150
CARLEVARIS D TR
713 BARNESON AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-3414
109650390
TUBBS JOYCE MARIE TR
7130 MUNSON CREEK RD
TILLAMOOK
OR
97141-8628
109640320
FRICKE ALFRED W TR
73 SAN PABLO AVE
HALF MOON BAY
CA
94019
106550150
CHOW MICHAEL GLENN TR
820 PICOTTE ST #201
LAS VEGAS
NV
89144-4558
32431130
SCHNEIDER PROPERTIES LP
840 COLEMAN AVE #10
MENLO PARK
CA
94025-2484
109610170
HARRINGTON SARA DUVAL TR
89 PARKER AVE
ATHERTON
CA
94027-5415
121 of 682

--- page 122 ---
32412210
KIESER LOUISE M TR
933 NORTHRUP ST
SAN JOSE
CA
95126-3727
109610140
YOUMANS RACHEL A TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #214
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109620090
BEHRENS BARBARA ALICE TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #309
SAN MATEO
CA
94401
109620140
SCANLON NAKAKO U TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #315
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620200
BOZZINI NORMA TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #321
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620210
GREEN ISABEL N TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #322
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620220
MARCUS EVELYN N TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #323
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620230
JOE CURTIS Y TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #324
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620240
SOMMER MYRA H TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #401
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620320
MARY ANN ROWE TRUST
ONE BALDWIN AVE #409
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620330
STONE JEAN E TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #410
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109620360
HERSHBERGER JOHN D TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #414
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109630100
STONE DONALD W TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #510
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3849
109630190
READER EVAN A TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #520
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630230
MILLER BARBARA J TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #524
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630240
BROADDUS BARBARA A TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #601
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630300
CONNOLLY JOAN JEANNETTE TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #607
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630320
MORTYN MOLLIE C TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #609
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630330
ANDERSON ANNE M TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #610
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630370
ARAKI NANCY K TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #615
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630390
PETERSEN DONNA LOU TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #617
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109630440
DELBECQ MILI L TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #622
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3850
109640280
SENNETT EDITH TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #805
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109640340
NERGAARD A KRISTIAN
ONE BALDWIN AVE #811
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3851
109650100
NIEBERDING PAUL H
ONE BALDWIN AVE #910
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650180
BELDEN MILDRED TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #919
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109650230
HILL THOMAS F TR
ONE BALDWIN AVE #924
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3852
109620260
WARREN RUBE III
ONE BALDWIN AVE. #403
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3848
109650140
AMBROSI M ROSARIA PIOMELLI TR
ONE BALDWIN AVENUE
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3864
109610180
BENHAM ADRIENNE H TR
ONE BALDWIN AVENUE #218
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
109620050
WONG ETHEL L TR
ONE BALDWIN AVENUE #305
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-3847
32441260
OLIVES SONOMA LLC
P O BOX 1538
SAN MATEO
CA
94401-0886
106550200
CADDEN MICHAEL J
PO BOX 1751
EL GRANADA
CA
94018-1751
109630410
LARUE R SCOTT TR
PO BOX 2657
RANCHO SANTA FE
CA
92067-2657
32312150
SUTTER BAY HOSPITALS
PO BOX 619051
ROSEVILLE
CA
95661-9051
106540010
TRILLANA MICHAEL & CATHERINE
6784 AYALA AVE, LEGAZPI VILLAGE
MAKATI
1200 M PHILIPPINES
122 of 682

--- page 123 ---
Log of Comments
Name
Address
Comment
Date
Comment
Response
Date
Response
123 of 682

--- page 124 ---
(ne Pak Poca

Pe CASTLE Suite 309

Application Submittal for Wireless Facility

Crown Castle
Taylor Blanford
1300 Clay Street.
Taylor Blanford@
(610) 210-3221

Applicant Permitting Agent

Suite 325, Oakland, CA 94612
kimley-horn com

CC: nomherncalomiapubliccomments@crowncastle.com

(925) 701-7210

Dear Property Owner or Resident:

Crown Castle has submitted an
of San Mateo Public Works Department, As p:

(SMMC) Section 17.10.05
500' radius of the proposed projec

powered, compact device used to provide wireless cellular service The

A “small wireless facility’ is a low:
failed on pole 2805 at the location below

proposed small wireless facility would be inst

Location; Nearest Address: 16 Baldwin Ave, San Mateo, CA 94401
The location was identified as the leas!
In this case, the facility is proposed to be placed on
rotice. This small wireless faciity will not require inst
or electrical meter pedestals. If the application is approve
begin Fall, 2023.

For information on the equipment or technical aspects o!
this letter, Comments regarding aspects of the project ott

requests for updates may be submitted to the Applicant within thirty (
2023 Comments may be submitted via mail or email to the addresses listed for the Applicant

‘oncerns related to the safety of radio frequency emission:
Commission (FCC) Office of Engineering and Technology |
guidelines

Pursuant to US Code Title 47 section 332(c)(7)(B)i)(II), local governments may not
Prohibiting the provision of cellular services in the municipalities they govern

FCC rules do allow local governments to adopt design guidelines to guid

Zestheic design of her facies, The Cty of San Mateo has done $0 an

% a Design Standards, Application Requirements, Conditions of Approval for Wireless
ight-of- Way” available at the following website:

hits ww
hos: cityofsanmateo org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure

Page 1 of 2

crown Castle

~~ CASTLE one Pu Fee

19 complianc
‘S ments Addin
ents Address

listed below

ay of San Mateo.
in: Public Works — Permitting Divi
RE Wireless Comments Coe
Bs E20.W 20th Ave, San Mateo, CA 94403
eae ail: pwencroachment@ecityofsanmateo.org

‘anmateo org/386s,
'9/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure,

ding th
wi 9S Project m,
Posted on th

Only persone = ebPage listed above. Ay yrdance
sons ‘ppeals may be made in acco’ a
y the Director no are the property owner or resident within 500) of the projeat st
approve or deny an application for a wireless permit

8 Made by fii
(5) calor und @ Protest wit

fa) Calendar day

ta 3 he Sustarssec the 's8uance of the Notice of Decision. Protests can be Lt Eag
N. 20th Avenue, cand Infrastructure Commission, Ryan Brunmeief Assistant EM if
rk must be ’an Mateo, CA 94403 or emailed to rbrunmeler@aityotsem

befor
© the five (5) days or it will not be considered

Y on em
requenn e"¥ronmen ‘
tations and gues ects trom rao frequency emissions that are compl
1 SIC mecieees are not allowed by federal law. Anyone submitting &
1g When the protest is agendized

jant wih
protest ©

Photo Simulation of propos

Dublin, CA oas6g

application for a small wireless facility to be located in the right-of-way

rt of Crown Castle's application, San Maleo Clty Muna! Cae’
ra) requires that we send a notification "to al properly owners and residents wining
1 site” within five (5) calendar days of submission ofthe application tothe Cay

{intrusive location that meets specific wireless network coverage needs

‘an existing streetlight pole as shown on the last page ol this
tallation of any street-level equipment, such as data cablnels
1d by the City of San Mateo, installations anlicpated io

f this installation, contact the Applicant listed at the top of
her than radio frequency emissions, aesthetic, of
30) calendar days of this notice July 11

1s should b3 directed to the Federal Communications
located at 445 12th St SW, Washington, DC, 20864

The FCC may also be reached at 1 (888) CALL-FCC. The FCC does not allow appeals when based soley on
the environmental effects from radio frequency emissions that are compliant with applicable FCC reglslon

prohibit or have the effec of

fe infrastructure companies in the
1d these guidelines are codfied in the
Facilities in the Public

Dublin, CA 94568

with the SMMC and corresponding Design Standards, should be emailed of

teat th
feat the
lesions ee Public int
“eee he Smal Calta reeling ink i cisions should sian uote
ile te Small Celt ing information on application decisions
__ tbe provided” Infrastructure webpage available at the following webst

* the |
be appealed with in five (6) calendar days ofthe issuance © sc

th commis”
the Secretary of the Sustainability and infrastuclt coat

124 of 682



--- page 125 ---
eteere

Memarant Aarons: 8 DuASuto Ave. G2 Ma Ghtun

Viewhrgon OC. asa
ct tlw S200 wine beet aay
Sato compen oO mpten Oc pa
Cade Fite 4 nection Ste eR ene nes Mer pes em fe ct
nin cette sarees ve wrntpatann toy pees
lr Sacro San Pato © Bl ec cps,
of Pa facies Tw ti ot Se Maes bas done os rd hen

cree we ond ty
Contern ef Aeeront hr Ven Yasin ee hey

[Pest af he tctoweg watane

, ° SY MES Sena Cah inteanactry

Oo Oy ENS Cok ere

; ronan

sccm to em a

be onan ce

pcre rnoag ena pemsenytcaaemeneno
Benoni ena repo one's an =

Pe Drecky t acerove © Gory an epptcater fey # woven pet

a
ing 0 pues anal
so fe Bereta of tn Sostnatiy we ears
ha ays of a ensoce ote sca el Ocoson Pesaas ol

at o
—_
Die Ga scar atin, oro weeny Commisaen Pet mer

pee yt
+ enaies b anerew Ga

oe howe. Sm ates. CA S44

Uma tore tom five (5) ny or & i eat be consis

ae at we eter
ic oome ies -
= Ee eaten wan et cloud ty toteed ton, Aegeme

CC mmary ces he pron w speed

Proraoned # acy Pas se

2

5 of 682



--- page 126 ---
CROWN
CASTLE

Application

‘yor Biaford
(610) 210-8224,
CC. northemcalit
(925) 701-7210,

var Property Owner of Resident:

low-powered, ©
‘sa ral wrelessfacity would be’
\ocaten —Nosrest Address: 16 Baldwin

erator was ented a8 the least
‘sae ec proposed to be plas
‘tc Th bral weeless facility wil
‘escent pete Te ep
ap Fal 2023

acre ty
(FCC) Oe of Engst

= : p
ce gry end
ate atinh roe.

i poe

126 of 682°



--- page 127 ---
Prior Permits and Approvals 
 
127 of 682

--- page 128 ---
verizon’

One Verizon Way
Basking Ridge, NJ 07920

VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.
ASSISTANT SECRETARY’S CERTIFICATE
I, Brandon N. Egren, do hereby certify that I am a duly elected, qualified and acting Assistant
Secretary of Verizon Communications Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Verizon”), and as such I am

authorized to execute this certificate. In such capacity, I further certify that:

Verizon Wireless Network Procurement LP (“VZW Network”) is a Delaware limited
partnership and is indirectly wholly owned by Verizon.

Cellco Partnership (“Cellco”’) is a Delaware general partnership and is indirectly wholly
owned by Verizon.

Straight Path Spectrum, LLC (“Straight Path”) is a Delaware limited liability company
and is directly wholly owned by Verizon.

GTE Mobilnet of Califormia Limited Partnership (“GTEM of California”) is a California
limited partnership and is indirectly wholly owned by Verizon.

VZW Network, Cellco, Straight Path and GTEM of Califomia are affiliates of Verizon.

Dated: September 21, 2022

Brouccbo Eyre

Brandon N. Egren
Assistant Secretary

2904559

128 of 682


--- page 129 ---
Wireless Telecommunications Bureau
RADIO STATION AUTHORIZATION 
LICENSEE:
ATTN: LICENSING MANAGER
STRAIGHT PATH SPECTRUM, LLC
5055 NORTH POINT PKWY, NP2NE NETWORK ENGINEERING
ALPHARETTA, GA 30022
STRAIGHT PATH SPECTRUM, LLC
Waivers/Conditions:
Federal Communications Commission
FCC Registration Number (FRN): 0012576435
REFERENCE COPY
This is not an official FCC license. It is a record of public information contained in the FCC's licensing database on the date that this reference 
copy was generated. In cases where FCC rules require the presentation, posting, or display of an FCC license, this document may not be used 
in place of an official FCC license.
Call Sign
File Number
Radio Service
WRAZ876
 0008225993
UU - Upper Microwave Flexible Use 
Service
Grant Date
07-24-2018
Effective Date
07-24-2018
Expiration Date
08-10-2028
Print Date
07-25-2018
Market Number
BTA404
Channel Block
L1
Sub-Market Designator
3
Market Name
San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose
1st Build-out Date
2nd Build-out Date
06-01-2024
3rd Build-out Date
4th Build-out Date
Special Condition for AU/name change (6/4/2016): Grant of the request to update licensee name is conditioned on it not 
reflecting an assignment or transfer of control (see Rule 1.948); if an assignment or transfer occurred without proper 
notification or FCC approval, the grant is void and the station is licensed under the prior name. 
The authority granted herein is subject to any future applicable international frequency coordination agreements between the 
administrations of the United State and Canada.
Conditions:
Pursuant to §309(h) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. §309(h), this license is subject to the 
following conditions:  This license shall not vest in the licensee any right to operate the station nor any right in the use of the 
frequencies designated in the license beyond the term thereof nor in any other manner than authorized herein.  Neither the 
license nor the right granted thereunder shall be assigned or otherwise transferred in violation of the Communications Act of 
1934, as amended.  See 47 U.S.C. § 310(d).  This license is subject in terms to the right of use or control conferred by §706 of 
the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.  See 47 U.S.C. §606.
This license may not authorize operation throughout the entire geographic area or spectrum identified on the hardcopy version. 
To view the specific geographic area and spectrum authorized by this license, refer to the Spectrum and Market Area information 
under the Market Tab of the license record in the Universal Licensing System (ULS).  To view the license record, go to the ULS 
homepage at http://wireless.fcc.gov/uls/index.htm?job=home and select License Search .  Follow the instructions on how to 
search for license information.
FCC 601-MB
August 2021
Page 1 of 2
129 of 682

--- page 130 ---
Page 2 of 2
Market
Market Name
Buildout Deadline
Buildout Notification
Status
700 MHz Relicensed Area Information:
FCC 601-MB
August 2021
Licensee Name: STRAIGHT PATH SPECTRUM, LLC
Call Sign: WRAZ876
File Number: 0008225993
Print Date: 07-25-2018
130 of 682

--- page 131 ---
Wireless Telecommunications Bureau
RADIO STATION AUTHORIZATION 
LICENSEE:
ATTN: LICENSING MANAGER
STRAIGHT PATH SPECTRUM, LLC
5055 NORTH POINT PKWY, NP2NE NETWORK ENGINEERING
ALPHARETTA, GA 30022
STRAIGHT PATH SPECTRUM, LLC
Waivers/Conditions:
Federal Communications Commission
FCC Registration Number (FRN): 0012576435
REFERENCE COPY
This is not an official FCC license. It is a record of public information contained in the FCC's licensing database on the date that this reference 
copy was generated. In cases where FCC rules require the presentation, posting, or display of an FCC license, this document may not be used 
in place of an official FCC license.
Call Sign
File Number
Radio Service
WRAZ877
 0008225878
UU - Upper Microwave Flexible Use 
Service
Grant Date
07-24-2018
Effective Date
07-24-2018
Expiration Date
08-10-2028
Print Date
07-25-2018
Market Number
BTA404
Channel Block
L2
Sub-Market Designator
3
Market Name
San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose
1st Build-out Date
2nd Build-out Date
06-01-2024
3rd Build-out Date
4th Build-out Date
Special Condition for AU/name change (6/4/2016): Grant of the request to update licensee name is conditioned on it not 
reflecting an assignment or transfer of control (see Rule 1.948); if an assignment or transfer occurred without proper 
notification or FCC approval, the grant is void and the station is licensed under the prior name. 
The authority granted herein is subject to any future applicable international frequency coordination agreements between the 
administrations of the United State and Canada.
Conditions:
Pursuant to §309(h) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. §309(h), this license is subject to the 
following conditions:  This license shall not vest in the licensee any right to operate the station nor any right in the use of the 
frequencies designated in the license beyond the term thereof nor in any other manner than authorized herein.  Neither the 
license nor the right granted thereunder shall be assigned or otherwise transferred in violation of the Communications Act of 
1934, as amended.  See 47 U.S.C. § 310(d).  This license is subject in terms to the right of use or control conferred by §706 of 
the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.  See 47 U.S.C. §606.
This license may not authorize operation throughout the entire geographic area or spectrum identified on the hardcopy version. 
To view the specific geographic area and spectrum authorized by this license, refer to the Spectrum and Market Area information 
under the Market Tab of the license record in the Universal Licensing System (ULS).  To view the license record, go to the ULS 
homepage at http://wireless.fcc.gov/uls/index.htm?job=home and select License Search .  Follow the instructions on how to 
search for license information.
FCC 601-MB
August 2021
Page 1 of 2
131 of 682

--- page 132 ---
Page 2 of 2
Market
Market Name
Buildout Deadline
Buildout Notification
Status
700 MHz Relicensed Area Information:
FCC 601-MB
August 2021
Licensee Name: STRAIGHT PATH SPECTRUM, LLC
Call Sign: WRAZ877
File Number: 0008225878
Print Date: 07-25-2018
132 of 682

--- page 133 ---
06/21/2022
City of San Mateo
Tracy Scramaglia
Public Works
330 West 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
RE: FAA Filing for Wireless Facilities
Dear City of San Mateo Public Works,
Crown Castle’s proposed Small Wireless Communication Facilities do not require the completion and
filing of FAA Form 7460 due to this project not meeting the requirements of the Federal Aviation Code Title 14,
Chapter 1, Subchapter E, Part 77. Crown Castle’s proposed Small Wireless Communication Facilities do not meet
the FAA requirements for facilities that must file with the FAA which is listed below.
§ 77.9 — Any person/organization who intends to sponsor any of the following construction or
alterations must notify the Administrator of the FAA:
 
Any construction or alteration exceeding 200 ft above ground level
 
Any construction or alteration
o 
within 20,000 ft of a public use or military airport which exceeds a 100:1 surface from any point on
the runway of each airport with at least one runway more than 3,200 ft.
o 
within 10,000 ft of a public use or military airport which exceeds a 50:1 surface from any point on
the runway of each airport with its longest runway no more than 3,200 ft.
o 
within 5,000 ft of a public use heliport which exceeds a 25:1 surface
o 
Any highway, railroad or other traverse way whose prescribed adjusted height would exceed that
above noted standards
o 
When requested by the FAA
o 
Any construction or alteration located on a public use airport or heliport regardless of height or
location
     Furthermore, the FAA Code states that one does not need to file notice for construction or alteration of any
object that will be shielded by existing structures of a permanent and substantial nature or by natural terrain or
topographic features of equal or greater height and will be located in the congested area of a city, town, or
settlement where the shielded structure will not adversely affect safety in air navigation. All of Crown Castle’s
proposed locations meet this requirement.
133 of 682

--- page 134 ---
Sincerely,
Jason Camarena
Sr. Network Permitting Relations Specialist
1 Park Pl, Suite 300
Dublin, CA 94568
134 of 682

--- page 135 ---
The CPCN was granted in the name of NTC Network, LLC (“NTC”) by the California Public Utilities 
Commission’s (“CPUC”) Decision 99-06-083 on June 24, 1999 (Order starts on page 11 of the Decision 
PDF) and assigned the Utility Number U-6190-C. 
NTC merged into Freedom Telecommunications LLC (“Freedom” - Utility Number U-7110-C) by way of a 
pro forma consolidation.  NTC’s Utility Number was transferred to Freedom as the surviving entity.  The 
CPUC accepted NTC’s Advice Letter No. 6 dated May 12, 2014 and Freedom’s Advice Letter No. 4 dated 
May 12, 2014. 
Freedom was merged into Crown Castle Fiber LLC (“Crown Castle Fiber”) with Freedom’s CPCN and 
Utility Number (U-6910-U) being transferred to Crown Castle Fiber – Freedom’s Advice Letter No. 13 
accepted on November 24, 2018 
135 of 682

--- page 136 ---
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
Governor
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
505 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco CA 94102-3298
EDMUND G. BROWN JR.,
Freedom Telecommunications, Llc
IEC (Corp ID 6190)
Status of Advice Letter 13
As of November 27, 2018
Division Assigned:
Telecommunications
Date Filed:
10-26-2018
Date to Calendar:
10-31-2018
Authorizing Documents:
Disposition:
Effective Date:
Resolution Required:
No
Resolution Number:
None
Commission Meeting Date:
None
CPUC Contact Information:
AL Certificate Contact Information:
Pro Forma Consolidation including assumption of CPCN and Utility Number
Subject:
None
Accepted
11-24-2018
Tamar Finn
tamar.finn@morganlewis.com
202-739-3000
TD_PAL_COORDINATOR@cpuc.ca.gov
415-703-1565
136 of 682

--- page 137 ---
To:  Telecommunications Carrier Filing Advice Letter
From:  Telecommunications Division PAL Coordinator
Subject:  Your Advice Letter Filing
The Telecommunications Division of the California Public Utilities Commission has 
processed your recent Advice Letter (AL) filing and is returning an AL status certificate for 
your records.
The AL status certificate indicates:
       Advice Letter Number
       Name of Filer
       CPUC Corporate ID number of Filer
       Subject of Filing
       Date Filed
       Disposition of Filing (Accepted, Rejected, Withdrawn, etc.)
       Effective Date of Filing
       Other Miscellaneous Information (e.g., Resolution, if applicable, etc.)
The Telecommunications Division has made no changes to your copy of the Advice Letter 
Filing; please review your Advice Letter Filing with the information contained in the AL 
status certificate, and update your Advice Letter and tariff records accordingly.
All inquiries to the California Public Utilities Commission on the status of your Advice 
Letter Filing will be answered by Telecommunications Division staff based on the 
information contained in the Telecommunications Division's PAL database from which the 
AL status certificate is generated. If you have any questions on this matter please contact 
the:
       Telecommunications Division PAL Coordinator at (415) 703-1565, or by 
       e-mail to 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
Governor
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
505 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco CA 94102-3298
EDMUND G. BROWN JR.,
137 of 682

--- page 138 ---
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
Governor
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
505 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco CA 94102-3298
EDMUND G. BROWN JR.,
Ntc Network, Inc
IEC (Corp ID 6190)
Status of Advice Letter 6
As of August 11, 2014
Division Assigned:
Telecommunications
Date Filed:
05-13-2014
Date to Calendar:
05-16-2014
Authorizing Documents:
Disposition:
Effective Date:
Resolution Required:
No
Resolution Number:
None
Commission Meeting Date:
None
CPUC Contact Information:
AL Certificate Contact Information:
Pro Forma consilidation of NTC and Freedom Telecommunications, LLC (U-7110-C)
Subject:
None
Accepted
06-12-2014
Douglas Orvis
douglas.orvis@bingham.com
202-373-6000
TD_PAL_COORDINATOR@cpuc.ca.gov
415-703-1565
138 of 682

--- page 139 ---
To:  Telecommunications Carrier Filing Advice Letter
From:  Telecommunications Division PAL Coordinator
Subject:  Your Advice Letter Filing
The Telecommunications Division of the California Public Utilities Commission has 
processed your recent Advice Letter (AL) filing and is returning an AL status certificate 
for your records.
The AL status certificate indicates:
       Advice Letter Number
       Name of Filer
       CPUC Corporate ID number of Filer
       Subject of Filing
       Date Filed
       Disposition of Filing (Accepted, Rejected, Withdrawn, etc.)
       Effective Date of Filing
       Other Miscellaneous Information (e.g., Resolution, if applicable, etc.)
The Telecommunications Division has made no changes to your copy of the Advice 
Letter Filing; please review your Advice Letter Filing with the information contained in 
the AL status certificate, and update your Advice Letter and tariff records accordingly.
All inquiries to the California Public Utilities Commission on the status of your Advice 
Letter Filing will be answered by Telecommunications Division staff based on the 
information contained in the Telecommunications Division's PAL database from which 
the AL status certificate is generated. If you have any questions on this matter please 
contact the:
       Telecommunications Division PAL Coordinator at (415) 703-1565, or by 
       e-mail to 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
Governor
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
505 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco CA 94102-3298
EDMUND G. BROWN JR.,
139 of 682

--- page 140 ---
Filed By
Advice Letter Number 
Tier Date Filed
Subject
Protested
Date Closed
Effective Date
Days Open
Disposition
Freedom Telecommunications, Inc.
4
1
5/13/2014 Pro Forma Consilidation of Freedom and NTC Network, LLC (U-6190-C)
No
08/11/14
05/13/14
90
Accepted
140 of 682

--- page 141 ---
_ ALJ/TRP/avs | Mailed 6/24/99

Decision 99-06-083 June 24, 1999
BEFORE THE PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

Order Instituting Rulemaking on the wa
Commission’s Own Motion into Competition for Rulemaking 95-04-043 ©
Local Exchange Service. (Filed April 26, 1995)

MAL FILE COPY

-Investigation 95-04-044
Order Instituting Investigation on the (Filed April 26, 1995)
Commission’s Own Motion into Competition for (Petition Nos. 132, 133, 134,
Local Exchange Service. 135, 136, 137,138, 139
140, and 142)

OPINION

By this decision, we grant the petitions for certificates of public
convenience and necessity (CPCN) to operate as facilities-based competitive local
carriers (CLCs) and to offer resold local exchange services within the territories
of Pacific Bell (Pacific), GTE California Incorporated (GTEC), Roseville
Telephone Company (RTC), and Citizens Telephone Company (CTC), for those
petitioners as set forth in Appendix B of this decision, subject to the terms and
conditions included herein. We also grant petitioners’ requests for intrastate
interLocal Access and Transport Areas (interLATA) and intraLATA authority on |

a statewide basis as designated in Appendix B.
I. Background

We initially established rules for entry of facilities-based CLCs in Decision
(D.) 95-07-054. Under those procedures, we processed a group of candidates that
filed petitions for CPCNs by September 1, 1995, and granted authority effective
January 1, 1996, for qualifying CLCs to provide facilities-based competitive local

-1-

141 of 682


--- page 142 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

exchange service in the territories of Pacific and GTEC. We authorized CLCs
seeking to provide resale-based services to begin operations on March 1, 1996.
We further advised prospective entrants that any filings from nonqualifying
CLCs, and any filing for CLC operating authority made after September 1, 1995,
would be treated as standard applications and processed in the normal course of
the Commission's business.

By D.96-12-020, effective January 1, 1997, we instituted quarterly
processing cycles for granting CPCN authority for facilities-based CLCs in order
to streamline the approval process for these particular carriers. Since we had
been processing the environmental impact review required under the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) ona consolidated basis for groups of
qualifying facilities-based CLCs, we concluded in D.96-12-020 that it would be
more efficient and consistent to process other aspects of the CLC filings on a
consolidated basis, as well. Accordingly, we directed that any CLC filing on or
after January 1, 1997, for facilities-based CPCN authority was to make its filing in
the form of a petition to be docketed in Investigation (I.) 95-04-044 that would be
processed quarterly on a consolidated basis. CLCs seeking only resale authority
continued to file individual applications.

On September 24, 1997, we adopted D.97-09-115 in which we extended the
coverage of our adopted rules for local exchange competition to include the
service territories of California’s two midsized local exchange carriers (MSLECs),
RTC and CTC. In that decision, we also authorized candidates seeking CLC
CPCN authority within the MSLECs’ territories to immediately begin making
filings following the applicable entry rules previously adopted in D.95-07-054
and subsequent decisions. Specifically, requests for CLC CPCN authority for
facilities-based service were to be filed in the form of a petition docketed in

1.95-04-044, while resellers have sought authority through applications. In

-2-

142 of 682


--- page 143 ---
~

R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

D.98-01-055, we approved the first group of petitions for facilities-based CPCNs
to offer local exchange service within the MSLEC territories. |

_ Inthis decision, we approve CPCNs for those facilities-based CLCs which
filed petitions during the first quarter of 1999 and satisfied all applicable rules for
certification as established in Rulemaking (R.) 95-04-043. The Petitioners
identified in Appendix B will be authorized to begin offering service upon the
filing of tariffs and compliance with the terms and conditions set forth in this

order.
ll. CEQA Review

We have reviewed the petitions for compliance with CEQA. CEQA
requires the Commission to assess the potential environmental impact of a
project in order that adverse effects are avoided, alternatives are investigated,
and environmental quality is restored or enhanced to the fullest extent possible.
To achieve this objective, Rule 17.1 of the Commission's Rules requires the
proponent of any project subject to Commission approval to submit with the
petition for approval of such project a Proponent’s Environmental Assessment
(PEA). The PEA is used by the Commission to focus on any impacts of the
project which may be of concern, and prepare the Commission’s Initial Study to
determine whether the project needs a Negative Declaration or an Environmental
Impact Report (EIR). |

Based on its assessment of the facilities-based petitions and PEAs, the
Commission staff prepared a Negative Declaration and Initial Study generally
describing the facilities-based Petitioners’ projects and their potential
environmental effects. The Negative Declaration prepared by the Commission
staff is considered a Mitigated Negative Declaration (MND). This means that,

although the initial study identified potentially significant impacts, revisions

143 of 682



--- page 144 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs '

which mitigate the impacts to a less than significant level have been agreed to by
the Petitioners. (Pub. Res. Code § 21080(c)(2):)-

A. Results of the Negative Declaration

On April 29, 1999, the Negative Declaration and Initial Study were sent
to various city and county planning agencies, as well as public libraries
throughout the state for review and comment by May 28, 1999. The Commission
staff prepared a public notice which announced the preparation of the draft
negative declaration, the locations where it was available for review, and the
deadline for written comments. The public notice was advertised in newspapers
throughout the state. The draft Negative Declaration was also submitted to the
Governor's Office of Planning and Research where it was circulated to affected
State agencies for review and comment. | %

Public comments on the draft Negative Declaration were reviewed and
answered, as necessary. The Commission staff then finalized the MND covering
all facilities-based CLC petitions listed in Appendix B. The finalized MND

includes a list of mitigation measures with which the CLCs must comply as a

co

condition of their CPCN authority. The MND includes a Mitigation Monitoring
Plan to ensure that the mitigation measures are followed and implemented as
intended. A copy of the MND is attached to this decision as Apperdix D. We
hereby approve the MND as finalized by staff. Concurrently with our approval
of the MND, we grant the request of the Petitioners in Appendix B for CPCN

authority subject to the terms and conditions set forth in our order below.
B. Required Payment of CEQA Deposit
Commission Decision 97-04-046 stipulates that all petitioners for CLC
authority must submit with their filing an initial payment of $2000 to cover
CEQA costs. The $2000 payment is used to cover the Commission’s costs for
-4-

144 of 682


--- page 145 ---
w

R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

preparing and publishing the Mitigated Negative Declaration for each qualifying
petitioner, as required by CEQA law. As of the date of this order, the

_ Commission has received payment of the required $2000 deposit from each of

the CLCs, as identified in Appendix B.

ill. Review of CPCN Petitions

A. Overview
The CLC petitions have been reviewed for compliance with the
certification-and-entry rules (Rules) adopted in Appendices A and B of
D.95-07-054 and subsequent decisions in R.95-04-043/1.95-04-044. Consistent
with our goal of promoting a competitive market as rapidly as possible, we are
granting authority to all of the facilities-based CLCs that filed during the first
quarter of 1999 and met the Rules. The Rules are intended to protect the public

against unqualified or unscrupulous carriers, while also encouraging and easing

the entry of CLC providers to promote the rapid growth of competition.

Petitioners had to demonstrate that they possessed the requisite

~ managerial qualifications, technical competence, and financial resources to

provide facilities-based local exchange service. Petitioners were also required to
submit proposed tariffs which conform to the consumer protection rules set forth
in Appendix B of D.95-07-054. In response to a notice of tariff deficiencies, the
various petitioners submitted tariff corrections. Except for the outstanding
deficiencies noted in Appendix C, the petitioners’ proposed tariffs are found to
be satisfactory with no deficiencies noted.

As prescribed in Rule 4.B.(1), prospective facilities-based CLCs must
also show that they possess a minimum of $100,000 in cash or cash-equivalent
resources, as defined in the Rules. In.order to demonstrate that they possess the

requisite financial resources, petitioners submitted copies of recent financial

-5-

"145 of 682


--- page 146 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

statements. Because the financial statements contain commercially sensitive
information, the petitioners filed motions for limited protective orders to restrict
the financial statements and related documents containing commercially
sensitive information from public disclosure pursuant to General Order

(GO) 66-C. We grant those motions as prescribed in our order below.

Based upon our review, we conclude that each of the facilities-based
Petitioners identified in Appendix B, has satisfactorily complied with our
certification requirements for entry, including the consumer protection rules set
forth in D.95-07-054, subject to correcting any tariff deficiencies in Appendix C,
payment of the required CEQA deposit, and satisfying the additional conditions
set forth in the ordering paragraphs below. Accordingly, we grant these
Petitioners authority to offer facilities-based and resold local exchange service
within the territories of Pacific and GTEC and, where requested, within the CTC
and RTC territories. We also grant the statewide inter- and intraLATA authority
as requested. |

Pursuant to D.97-09-115, CLC resale authority within the RTC and CTC
territories was authorized to become effective on or after April 1, 1998. As we
stated in D.97-09-115, until the time that tariffed wholesale discount rates are
adopted for RTC and CTC, individual CLCs certificated to resell local service
within the CTC/RTC territories may enter into negotiations with each of the
MSLECs to seek agreement on an interim wholesale discount rate. Disputes over
the terms of resale arrangements may be submitted to the Commission for
arbitration pursuant to the provisions of Section 252(b)(1) of the

Telecommunication Act of 1996 and Commission Resolution ALJ-174.

146 of 682


--- page 147 ---
-

w

R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

B. Motion of DSLnet

DSLnet Communications, LLC ("DSLnet”), attempted to file a petition
(# 142) for CLC local exchange authority on March 31, 1999, with the intention of
being included in the Commission’s quarterly “batch” review of such petitions
filed during the first quarter of 1999. However, DSLnet subsequently learned
that, due to certain confusion surrounding whether DSLnet’s Petition was
complete for purposes of the Commission’s review, the Commission did not
technically accept DSLnet’s petition until April 13, 1999. Asa result, it is now too

late for DSLnet’s Petition to be included in the Commission’s quarterly review

process for such petitions filed during the first quarter of 1999, at least to the

extent DSLnet seeks facilities-based authority.

Nonetheless, in order to allow DSLnet to initiate competitive
telecommunications service in California as soon as possible, DSLnet filed a
motion on May 4, 1999, asking the Commission to: (1) immediately consider the
portion of DSLnet’s Petition seeking authority to resell local exchange
telecommunications services, and (2) consider the portion of DSLnet’s Petition
seeking facilities-based authority in the Commission's quarterly review process
for Petitions filed during the second quarter of 1999.

No party has objected to the motion of DSLnet. We consider the
request of DSLnet for consideration of the resale portion of its petition in the
current quarterly review to be reasonable, under the circumstances and shall
grant it.

Due to the timing requirements relating to the Mitigated Negative
Declaration, DSLnet’s request for facilities-based authority cannot be considered
during the current quarter, but shall be deferred to the subsequent quarterly

review period.

147 of 682


--- page 148 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs
IV. Compliance With Section 311

In compliance with Pub. Util. Code Section 311 (g)(2), this is an
uncontested matter in which the decision grants the relief requested.
Accordingly, pursuant to Pub. Util. Code Section 311(g)(2), the otherwise

applicable 30-day period for public review and comment is being waived.

Findings of Fact

1. Nine petitioners filed requests during the first quarter of 1999 seeking a
CPCN to provide competitive local exchange services in the territories of various
' California incumbent local exchange carriers as set forth in Appendix B.

2. An additional petitioner, DSLnet attempted to file during the first quarter,
but the filing was not actually docketed until April 13, 1999. DSLnet .
subsequently filed an uncontested motion seeking to have its 1equest for CLC
resale authority to be considered as part of the first quarterly group of CLCs.

; 3. No protests to the CLC petitioners have been filed.

4. A hearing is not required.

5. By prior Commission decisions, we authorized competition in providing
local exchange telecommunications service within the service territories of
Pacific, GTEC, RTC, and CTC for carriers meeting specified criteria.

6. The Petitioners listed in Appendix B have demonstrated that each of them
has a minimum of $100,000 in cash or cash equivalent reasonably liquid and
readily available to meet its start-up expenses.

7. Petitioners’ technical experience is demonstrated by supporting
documentation which provides summary biographies of their key management
personnel.

8. Except as noted in Appendix C, Petitioners have each submitted a

complete draft of their initial tariff which complies with the requirements

-8-

148 of 682


--- page 149 ---
_ R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

established by the Commission, including prohibitions on unreasonable deposit
requirements. .

9. Commission D.97-04-046 stipulates that all petitioners for CLC authority
must submit with their filing an initial payment of $2,000 to cover the
Commission’s costs for preparing and publishing the Mitigated Negative
Declaration pursuant to CEQA. .

10. Each of the CLCs, as identified in Appendix B, has submitted the required
$2,000 CEQA deposit as of the date of this order.

11. By D.97-06-107, petitioners or applicants for CLC authority are exempt
from Rule 18(b).

12. Exemption from the provisions of Pub. Util. Code §§ 816-830 has been

granted to other nondominant carriers. (See, e.g., D.86-10-007 and D.88-12-076.)

13. The transfer or encumbrance of property of nondominant carriers has been
exempted from the requirements of Pub. Util. Code § 851 whenever such transfer

or encumbrance serves to secure debt. (See D.85-11-044.)
Conclusions of Law

1. Each of the Petitioners listed in Appendix B has the financial ability to
provide the proposed services, and has made a reasonable showing of technical
expertise in telecommunications.

2. Public convenience and necessity require the competitive local exchange
services to be offered by Petitioners subject to the terms, conditions, and
restrictions set forth below.

3. Each Petitioner is subject to:

a. The current 0.0% surcharge applicable to all intrastate
services except for those excluded by D.94-09-065, as
modified by D.95-02-050, to fund the Universal Lifeline
Telephone Service (P-ub. Util. Code § 879;

Resolution T-16245, December 3, 1998);

-9-

149 of 682



--- page 150 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

b. The current 0.192% surcharge applicable to all intrastate
services except for those excluded by D.94-09-065, as
modified by D.95-02-050, tc fund the California Relay
Service and Communications Devices Fund
(Pub. Util. Code § 2881; Resolution T-16234; D.98-12-073, ,
December 17, 1998);

. The user fee provided in Pub. Util. Code §§ 431-435, which is
0.11% of gross intrastate revenue for the 1998-1999 fiscal
year (Resolution M-4789);

. The current surcharge applicable to all intrastate services
except for those excluded by D.94-09-065, as modified by
D.95-02-050, to fund the California High Cost Fund-A
(Pub. Util. Code § 739.30; D.96-10-066, pp. 3-4, App. B,
Rule 1.C; Resolution T-16242 at 0.0% for 1999,

December 3, 1998);

. The current 3.8% surcharge applicable to all intrastate
services except for those excluded by D.94-09-065, as
modified by D.95-02-050, to fund the California High Cost _
Fund-B (D.96-10-066, p. 191, App. B, Rule 6.F., Resolution
T-16244, December 3, 1998); and,

. The current 0.05% surcharge applicable to all intrastate
services except for those excluded by D.94-09-065, as
modified by D.95-02-050, to fund the California Teleconnect
Fund (D.96-10-066, p. 88, App. B, Rule 8.G, Resolution
T-16165; August 1, 1998).

4. Petitioners should be exempted from Rule 18(b).
5. Petitioners should be exempted from Pub. Util. Code §§ 816-830.
6. Petitioners should be exempted from Pub. Util. Code § 851 when the

transfer or encumbrance serves to secure debt.

7. Each of the Petitioners must agree to, and is required to, carry out any

specific mitigation measures adopted in the Mitigated Negative Declaration

(MND), attached as Appendix D, in compliance with CEQA.

150 of 682


--- page 151 ---
_ R.95-04-043, I.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

8. With the incorporation of the specific mitigation measures in the final
MND, the Petitioners’ proposed projects will not have potentially significant
adverse environmental impacts. | .

9. The Petitioners should be granted CPCNs subject to the terms, conditions,
and restrictions set forth in the order below.

10. Any CLC which does not comply with our rules for local exchange
competition adopted in R.95-04-043 shall be subject to sanctions including, but

not limited to, revocation of its CLC certificate.

ORDER

IT IS ORDERED that:

1. A certificate of public convenience and necessity (CPCN), shall be granted
to each of the Petitioners listed in Appendix B (Petitioners) to permit each of
them to operate as a facilities-based provider of competitive local exchange
telecommunications services, as a reseller of competitive local exchange
telecommunications services within the service territories as noted in
Appendix B and, as a statewide nondominant interexchange carrier (NDIEC), as
noted in Appendix B, contingent on compliance with the terms identified in’
Appendix B and in the remainder of this order.

2. Each Petitioner shall file a written acceptance of the certificate granted in
this proceeding prior to commencing service. .

3. a. The Petitioners are authorized to file with this Commission tariff
schedules for the provision of competitive local exchange, intraLATA (Local |
Access Transport Area) toll and intrastate interLATA services, as applicable. The
Petitioners may not offer these services until tariffs are on file, and until any

applicable deficiencies as noted in Appendix C have been corrected. Petitioners’

-1l1-

151 of 682



--- page 152 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

initial filing shall be made in accordance with General Order (GO) 96-A,
excluding Secticns IV, V, and VI, and shall be effective not less than one day after
approval by the Telecommunications Division. .

b. The Petitioners are competitive local carriers (CLCs). The effectiveness
of each of their future tariffs is subject to the schedules set forth in Decision
(D.) 95-07-054, Appendix A, § 4E.

A. “E. CLCs shall be subject to the following tariff and
contract-filing, revision and service-pricing standards:

“(1) Uniform rate reductions for existing tariff services shall
become effective on five (5) working days’ notice to the
Commission. Customer notification is not required for rate _
decreases.

“(2) Uniform major rate increases for existing tariff services shall
become effective on thirty (30) days’ notice to the
Commission, and shall require bill inserts, or a message on
the bill itself, or first class mail notice to customers at least
30 days in advance of the pending rate increase.

“(3) Uniform minor rate increases, as defined in D.95-07-054,
shall become effective on not less than five (5) working
days’ notice to the Commission. Customer notification is

- not required for such minor rate increases.

“(4) Advice letter filing for new services and for all other types
of tariff revisions, except changes in text not affecting rates
or relocations of text in the tariff schedules, shall become
effective on forty (40) days’ notice to the Commission.

“(5) Advice letter filings revising the text or location of text
material which do not result in an increase in any rate or
charge shall become effective on not less than five (5) days’
notice to the Commission.

“(6) Contracts shall be subject to GO 96-A rules for NDIECs,
except interconnection contracts.

-12-

152 of 682



--- page 153 ---
. R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

“(7) CLCs shall file tariffs in accordance with Public Utilities
(Pub. Util.) Code Section 876.”

4. The Petitioners may deviate from the following provisions of GO 96-A:
(a) paragraph II.C.(1)(b), which requires consecutive sheet numbering and
prohibits the reuse of sheet numbers, and (b) paragraph II.C.(4), which requires
that “a separate sheet or series of sheets should be used for each rule.” Tariff
filings incorporating these deviations shall be subject to the approval of the
Commission’s Telecommunications Division. Tariff filings shall reflect all fees
and surcharges to which Petitioners are subject, as described in Conclusion of
Law 3. Petitioners are also exempt from GO 96-A Section II.G.(1) and (2) which
require service of advice letters on competing and adjacent utilities, unless such
utilities have specifically requested such service.

5. Each Petitioner shall file as part of its initial tariffs, after the effective date
of this order and consistent with Ordering Paragraph 3, a service area map.

6. Prior to initiating service, each Petitioner shall provide the Commission’s
Consumer Services Division with the Petitioner’s designated contact persons for
purposes of resolving consumer complaints and the corresponding telephone
numbers. This information shall be updated if the names or telephone numbers
change or at least annually.

7. Where applicable, each Petitioner shall notify this Commission in writing
of the date local exchange service is first rendered to the public within five days
after service begins. The same procedure shall be followed for the authorized
intraLATA and interLATA services, where applicable.

8. Each Petitioner shall keep its books and records in accordance with

generally accepted accounting principles.

-13-

153 of 682


--- page 154 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

9. Petitioners shall each file an annual report, in compliance with GO 104-A,
on a calendar-year basis using the information-request form developed by the
Commission Staff and contained in Appendix A.

10. Petitioners shall ensure that its employees comply with the provisions of
Pub. Util. Code § 2889.5 regarding solicitation of customers.

11. The certificate granted and the authority to render service under the rates,
charges, and rules authorized will expire if not exercised within 12 months after
the effective date of this order.

12. The corporate identification number assigned to each Petitioner, as set.
forth in Appendix B, shall be included in the caption of all original filings with
this Commission, and in the titles of other pleadings filed in existing cases.

13. Within 60 days of the effective date of this order, each Petitioner shall
comply with Pub. Util. Code § 708, Employee Identification Cards, reflecting its
authority, and notify the Director of the Telecommunications Division in writing
of its compliance. |

14. Each Petitioner is exempted from the provisions of Pub. Util. Code
§§ 816-830. |

15. Each Petitioner is exempted from Pub. Util. Code § 851 for the transfer or

encumbrance of property, whenever such transfer or encumbrance serves to
secure debt. |

16. If any Petitioner is 90 days or more late in filing an annual report or in
remitting the fees listed in Conclusion of Law 4, Telecommunications Division
shall prepare for Commission consideration a resolution that revokes that
Petitioner’s CPCN, unless that Petitioner has received written permission from

Telecommunications Division to file or remit late.

154 of 682


--- page 155 ---
_R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

17. The Final Mitigated Negative Declaration, including the Mitigation

Monitoring Plan, attached as Appendix D of this decision is hereby approved
‘and adopted. -

18. Each of the Petitioners listed in Appendix B shall comply with the
conditions and carry out the mitigation measures outlined in the adopted
Mitigated Negative Declaration.

19. Each of the Petitioners shall provide the Director of the Commission’s
Energy Division with reports on compliance with the conditions and
implementation of mitigation measures under the schedule outlined in the
Mitigated Negative Declaration.

20. Petitioners shall comply with the consumer protection rules set forth in
Appendix B of D.95-07-054.

21. Petitioners shall comply with the Commission’s rules for local exchange
competition in California that are set forth in Appendix C of D.95-12-056,
including the requirement that CLCs shall place customer deposits in a
protected, segregated, interest-bearing escrow account subject to Commission
oversight.

22. Petitioners shall comply with the customer notification and education
rules adopted in D.96-04-049 regarding the passage of calling party number.

23. Petitioners’ respective motions for a limited protective order keeping
designated documents containing financial and other operating information
confidential are granted. Such documents will remain under seal for one year
from today unless a petitioner makes a timely request for extension of
confidential treatment of its documents by filing a separate motion with good
cause shown. . |

24. The motion of DSLnet to have the resale portion of its CLC petition |

considered in the current quarterly cycle is granted.

-15-

155 of 682



--- page 156 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

25. The petitions listed in Appendix B are granted only as set forth above.

This order is effective today.
Dated June 24, 1999, at San Francisco, California.

RICHARD A. BILAS
. President
HENRY M. DUQUE
JOSIAH L. NEEPER
JOEL Z. HYATT
CARL W. WOOD
Commissioners

Certified as a True Copy
--fok the (Priginal

a

Linn, IP. Lt.

“TSS” EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, PISLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
; STATE OF CALIFORNIA

-16-

156 of 682



--- page 157 ---
_ &.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

APPENDIX A
Page 1 of 2

TO: ALL COMPETITIVE LOCAL CARRIERS AND INTEREXCHANGE
TELEPHONE UTILITIES

Article 5 of the Public Utilities Code grants authority to the California Public
Utilities Commission to require all public utilities doing business in California to
file reports as specified by the Commission on the utilities’ California operations.

A specific annual report form has not yet been prescribed for the California
interexchange telephone utilities. However, you are hereby directed to submit an
original and two copies of the information requested in Attachment A no later
than March 315 of the year following the calendar year for which the annual
report is submitted.

Address your report to:
California Public Utilities Commission
Auditing and Compliance Branch, Room 3251
505 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco, CA 94102-3298

Failure to file this information on time may result in a penalty as provided for in
§§ 2107 and 2108 of the Public Utilities Code.

If you have any question concerning this matter, please call (415) 703-1961.

157 of 682


--- page 158 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 2
Information Requested of California Competitive Local Carriers and Interexchange
Telephone Utilities.

To be filed with the California Public Utilities Commission, 505 Van Ness Avenue,
Room 3251, San Francisco, CA 94102-3298, no later than March 31st of the year
following the calendar year for which the annual report is submitted. _

1. Exact legal name and U # of reporting utility.

2. Address.

' 3. Name, title, address, and telephone number of the person to be contacted
concerning the reported information.

- Name and title of the officer having custody of the general books of account
and the address of the office where such books are kept.

. Type of organization (e.g., corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, etc.).
If incorporated, specify:
a. Date of filing articles of incorporation with the Secretary of State.
b. State in which incorporated.

- Commission decision number granting operating authority and the date of
that decision.

7. Date operations were begun.
8. Description of other business activities in which the utility is engaged.

. A list of all affiliated companies and their relationship to the utility. State if
affiliate is a:

a. Regulated public utility.
b. Publicly held corporation.

. Balance sheet as of December 31st of the year for which information is
submitted. .

. Income statement for California operations for the calendar year for which
information is submitted. .

(END OF APPENDIX A)

158 of 682


--- page 159 ---
_&.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

APPENDIX B
Page 1 of 1
LISTING OF PETITIONERS GRANTED CPCN AUTHORITY
Requested Authority
Granted ;
Statewide
Name of Petitioner Petition Utility Local Exchange! Inter /Intra-
No. U-No.  Facilities-based Resale LATA

1. Eagle Communications of 132. U-6182C X X

California, LLC
2. US Data Highway Corp.?, 133 U-6183C X
3. Seren Innovations, Inc. 2 133 U-6184C Xx X X
4. HTC Communications, LLC 2 135 U-6185C X Xx X
5. Network Plus, Inc. 136 U-6186C X Xx X
6. Campuslink Communications 137. ~U-6187C X X X

Systems, Inc. ?
7. XL Networks, Inc. 138 U-6188C Xx Xx Xx
8. Triad Communications 139 U-6189C Xx

Corporation.
9. 140 U-6190C 'X 4 X

10. DSLnet Communications, 142 U-6191C xX

~ LLC3

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the authorized local exchange service territory of each
CLC petitoner is limited to the ILEC service territories of Pacific, GTEC.

2 The authorized local exchange territory for this carrier encompasses the ILEC service
territories of Pacific, GTEC, RTC, and CTC.

3 The facilities-based portion of the DSLnet petition shall be considered during the next
quarterly review period.

159 of 682



--- page 160 ---
. &.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs®

APPENDIX C
_LIST OF CLC Tariff Deficiencies _
_ Page 1 of 4

Eagle Communications, Pet. 132

Eagle Communications was to file a supplement to its petition as
previously requested by the Telecommunications Staff to correct the many
deficiencies to its tariffs. To date, it has not filed a supplement to correct the
identified deficiencies. Eagle must file a revised set of tariffs that fully comply
_ with D.95-07-054, D.95-12-056, D.95-12-057, D.96-04-049. |

Network Plus — Pet. 136

Deficiencies in Network Plus’s Proposed Tariffs

1. On each tariff sheet, (1) replace the phrase above the top horizontal line
“Local Exchange Services” to “Competitive Local Carrier Tariff” and (2) adda
vertical line on both the left and right margins.

2. Sheet No. 3, Preliminary Statement, 1.1, last paragraph. Replace the phrase
“to resell local exchange telecommunications services within the State of
California” to “to provide facilities-based and resale local exchange services as a
competitive local carrier in the service areas of Pacific Bell, GTEC, Citizens and
Roseville Telephone Companies.”

3. Sheet No. 13, Rule 1, Definitions. Include the definitions adopted in
Decision 95-07-054 for: (1) Major Rate Increase, and (2) Minor Rate Increase.

4, Sheet No. 17, Rule 3, Customer Application for Service. Revise tariffs to
fully comply with the provisions of Rule 2, Appendix B of Decision 95-07-054,

(e.g., service initiation based on a written or oral agreement; confirmation letter

.160 of 682



--- page 161 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/ TRP /avst

APPENDIX C
LIST OF CLC Tariff Deficiencies
Page 2 of 4

5. briefly describing services, in case of an oral agreement; statement of
terms/conditions for all new customers, etc.). -

6. Sheet No. 18, Rule 5, Contracts and Agreements. Delete language re

effectivity on five days’ notice for ” subsequent completed contracts.” All

contracts shall be subject to the 40-day notice until revised by the Commission.

7. Sheet No. 19. (1) Rule 6, Special Information Required on Forms. Revise
tariff language to fully comply with the provisions of Rule 3 (A) and (B),
Appendix B of Decision 95-07-054. (2) Rule 7, Establishment and
Re-establishment of Credit. Include language on situations when deposits are
not required. (See Rule 4, Appendix B of Decision 95-07-054.)

8. Sheet No. 20. (1) Rule 8, Advance Payments. Revise tariff language to
indicate that advance payments shall be credited on the customer’s first bill.

(2) Deposits. Include language on the interest rate to be added to deposits.
(See Rule 5, Appendix B of Decision 95-07-054.)

9. Sheet No. 21, Rule 9, Notices. (1) Revise tariff to indicate that cancellation
of service by customers may be either verbal or written. (2) Include tariff
language on rates and rate revisions and information on notices of
discontinuance by a competitive local carrier. (See Rule 6, Appendix B of
Decision 95-07-054.)

10. Sheet No. 22, Rule 10, Cancellation of Service by Company. Revise tariff
to indicate that notice of discontinuance of service by a company for nonpayment
of bills shall be provided in writing by first class mail to the customer not less

than 7 calendar days prior to termination.

161 of 682


--- page 162 ---
2.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avst

APPENDIX C
LIST OF CLC Tariff Deficiencies
Page 3 of 4

11. Sheet No. 25, Rule 16, Rendering and Payment of Bills. Note that a

five-month back billing period for error files and one and one-half years

back billing period for fraud are applicable only to interexchange service

providers. Revise tariff accordingly. (See Decision 88-09-061.)

12. Sheet Nos. 27 through 31, Liability of the Company. Adopt either Pacific
Bell’s or GTEC’s limitation of liability. The limitation of liability of these
companies are appended to Decision 95-12-057.

13. Sheet 36, Rule 25, Additional Provisions, etc., Section D. Include language
to indicate that deposits will be refunded with interest within 30 days after
discontinuance of service or 12 months of service, whichever comes first.

14. Sheet 37, Rule 26, Additional Provisions, etc. Comply with the back billing
provisions of Decision 88-09-061 for local exchange service providers.

15. Sheet 68, Custom Calling Services. Briefly describe each feature. Delete
any reference to Caller ID service. This service can only be provided upon
compliance with the customer notification and education rules adopted in
Decision 96-04-049.

16. Sheet 72, Taxes and Surcharges. Update the applicable California

surcharges. The current surcharges are: (1) Reimbursement Fee - 0.11%;
(2) ULTS - 0.00%; (3) CHCF-A- 0.00%; (4) CHCF-B - 3.8%; (5) California Relay
Service & Communications Devices Fund - 0.192%; (6) California Teleconnect
Fund - 0.05%.

17. Include tariffs on: (1) Directories, (2) Non-published service,

(3) Demarcation points, (4) Pro-rating of bills, (5) Change of service provider,

162 of 682


--- page 163 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs*

APPENDIX C
LIST OF CLC Tariff Deficiencies
Page 4 of 4

18. (6) Blocking of 976/900 calls, (7) Access to 911 by residential customers
disconnected for nonpayment, (8) Switched access, (9) Number portability,
(10) Privacy, (11) Universal Lifeline Telephone Service (ULTS) rates and income
limitations, and (12) Sample forms. The forms may be filed with the company’s

initial tariff filing. (See Decision 95-07-054.)

NTC has to file a full set of tariffs in compliance with D.95-07-054, etc.

(END OF APPENDIX C)

163 of 682


--- page 164 ---
"  95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

APPENDIX D

164 of 682


--- page 165 ---
NEGATIVE DECLARATION (14)

Competitive Local Carriers' (CLCs)
Projects for Local Exchange Telecommunications Service throughout California.

The subject of this Negative Declaration are nine current petitions/applications for
authorization to provide facilities based local telephone services. (See Appendix B).

The California Public Utilities Commission is the lead agency in approving these petitioners’
intent to compete in the local exchange market. Additional approvals by other agencies may be
required depending upon the scope and type of construction proposed by the petitioner (e.g.
federal, ‘other state agencies, and ministerial permits by local agencies).

Because the subject projects of the nine current petitioners are similar, with some modifications,
to the projects proposed by the past petitioners, the Commission incorporates, in whole, Negative
Declaration 13 for these nine petitions/applications, and will refer to the incorporated documents
as “Negative Declaration 14” (Section 15150 of CEQA Guidelines). The public comment
period for the Draft Negative Declaration 14 begins on April 29, 1999 and expires on May
28, 1999. Comments should be addressed to: John Boccio, Project Manager, California Public
Utilities Commission, Energy Division, 505 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94102, Fax:
(415) 703-2200, E-Mail: jbx@cpuc.ca.gov. For further information call Mr. Boccio at (415)
703-2641.

BACKGROUND

The California Public Utilities Commission's Decision 95-07-054 enables telecommunications
companies to compete with local telephone companies in providing local exchange service.
Previous to this decision, local telephone service was monopolized by a single utility per service
territory. The Commission initially received 66 petitions from companies to provide competitive
local telephone service throughout areas presently served by Pacific Bell and GTE California.
The 66 petitioners included cable television companies, cellular (wireless) companies,' long-
distance service providers, local telephone service providers, and various other
telecommunication companies that specialize in transporting data.

Forty of the sixty-six petitions were for approval of facilities-based services, which means that
the petitioners proposed to use their own facilities in providing local telephone service. The
remaining 26 petitions were strictly for approval of resale-based services, meaning that telephone

| Wireless companies covered in the Negative Declarations adopted by the Commission for entry in the local
telephone market are also subject to Commission General Order (G.O. 159A). G.O. 159A delegates to local
governments the authority to issue discretionary permits for the approval of proposed sites for wireless facilities.
Commission adoption of the Negative Declarations is not intended to supersede or invalidate the requirements
contained in General Order 159A.

165 of 682


--- page 166 ---
service will be resold using another competitor's facilities. (Most of the facilities-based
petitioners offer resale-based services as well.) The 40 facilities-based petitions indicated that
physical modifications to existing facilities may be required, and construction of new facilities
was a possibility in the long-term. The 26 resale-based petitions were strictly financial and
billing arrangements that involved no construction and were therefore considered to be exempt
from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (Public Resources Code Sections 21000
et seq.).

The Commission issued a draft Negative Declaration for the initial 40 facilities-based petitioners
in October 1995. Comments on the draft Negative Declaration covered issues such as traffic
congestion, public safety, cumulative impacts, aesthetic impacts, and physical wear on streets.
These comments were addressed and the Negative Declaration was modified to some extent in
response to the comments. In December 1995, Commission Decision D.95-12-057 adopted a
final mitigated Negative Declaration finding that the proposed projects of the initial 40 facilities-
based petitioners would not have potentially significant environmental effects with specified
mitigation measures incorporated by the projects.

Following the adoption of D.95-12-057, the Commission received eight additional petitions for
facilities-based services. The eight petitioners included cable television companies, resale-based
providers approved by D.95-12-057, and other telecommunication companies. Following the
public comment period, the Commission made minor modifications to the first Negative
Declaration, and in September 1996, the Commission adopted the second Negative Declaration
for these eight companies (D.96-09-072). (This Negative Declaration is sometimes referred to as
“Negative Declaration II”). In January 1997, the Commission adopted a third Negative
Declaration for eight more facilities-based petitioners. “Negative Declaration III” is virtually the
same document as Negative Declaration II because the proposed projects of the eight petitioners
were no different from the projects proposed by the two groups of petitioners that preceded them.
Following the issuance of Negative Declaration III, ten subsequent Negative Declarations,
Negative Declaration IV (D.97-04-011), Negative Declaration V (D.97-06-100), Negative
Declaration VI (D.97-09-110), Negative Declaration VII (D97-12-084), Negative Declaration IX
(D.98-03-066), Negative Declaration X (D. 98-06-067), Negative Declaration 1 1 (D.98-09-66),
and Negative Declaration 12 (D.98-12-083) and Negative Declaration 13 (D.99-03-050) have
been adopted by the Commission in granting authority to provide facilities based local
telecommunication services under essentially the same circumstances. (Negative Declaration
VII] addressed telecommunication companies petitioning to provide services in the Roseville
Telephone Company and Citizens Telephone Company of California service areas only).
"Negative Declaration IV addressed nine petitioners, Negative Declaration V addressed six
petitioners, Negative Declaration VI addressed eight petitioners Negative Declaration VII
addressed five petitioners, Negative Declaration VIII addressed eleven petitioners, Negative
Declaration IX addressed eleven petitioners, Negative Declaration X addressed, two petitioners
and Negative Declaration |1 addressed eight petitioners and Negative Declaration 12 addressed
twelve petitioners.

166 of 682


--- page 167 ---
PROJECT DESCRIPTION

Following the adoption of Negative Declaration 13, the Commission received nine more
petitions/applications for facilities-based services. These petitioners are the subject of this
Negative Declaration. (See Appendix B for a list of the current facilities-based petitioners.)

Similar to the earlier petitioners, most of the current petitioners are initially targeting local
telephone service for areas where their telecommunications infrastructure is already established,
and therefore only minor construction is envisioned. Services provided will include but not be
limited to voice, data, video, internet and other telecommunications services. The petitioners
will need to make some modifications to their existing facilities; these modifications are minor in
nature, the most common being the installation of a switch that connects potential customers to
outside systems. Switch installation is necessary because customers receiving a particular type
of service may not have access to local telephone networks. For example, customers receiving
cable television service are presently unable to connect to local.telephone networks because of
the differences in modes of service. A switch installation by a cable television provider is one
step that makes the connection possible. Switch installation is considered a minor modification
because it typically involves a single installation within an existing central communication
facility or building.

Besides the minor modifications, some of the companies are planning to install their own fiber
optic cables to provide adequate service. Cables will be installed within existing utility
underground conduits or ducts, or attached to utility poles with existing overhead lines whenever
possible. Fiber optic cables are extremely thin, and existing conduits will likely be able to hold
multiple cables. However, if existing conduits or poles are unable to accommodate additional
cables, then new conduits or poles will need to be constructed by the petitioner. In this case, the
petitioners will construct within existing utility rights-of-way. There is also the possibility that
the petitioners may attempt to access other rights-of-way (such as roads) to construct additional
conduits. Extension of existing rights-of-way into undisturbed areas is not likely, but a
possibility. | , ;

The installation of fiber optic cables into underground conduits will vary in complexity
depending upon the conditions of the surrounding area. For example,-in urban, commercial
areas, utility conduits can be accessible with minimal groundbreaking and installation simply
requires stringing the cable through one end of the conduit and connecting it to the desired end.
In this case, major excavation of the right-of-way is unnecessary. However, there may also be
conditions where access to the conduit will require trenching and excavation.

Some of the petitioners have plans to construct service boxes or cabinets which contain batteries
for the provision of power or emergency power. The dimensions of the boxes vary, but basically
range from three to five feet in height. Depending upon the type of technology and facilities
operated by the petitioner, smaller service boxes (approximately 3 inches in height) would be
used for power supply and backup power. Those petitioners who have no plans to use such

3

167 of 682


--- page 168 ---
boxes already have capable power and backup power within their existing facilities. The
petitioners who will need such boxes, have committed to placing the boxes in existing buildings,
or in underground vaults. If conditions do not permit building or underground installation, the
petitioners would use small low-profile boxes that are landscaped and fenced.

While most of the petitioners will initially compete for customers in urban, commercial and
residential zones where telecommunication infrastructure is already in place, some petitioners
state their intention or right to compete on a state wide basis wherever competition is permitted.
However it is unclear at this time if all areas will be affected by the projects because many
petitioners are not specific where they intend to compete in the long-run.

ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION

An Initial Study was prepared to assess the projects’ potential effects on the environment, and the
respective significance of those effects. Based on the Initial Study, the CLCs' projects for
competitive local exchange service have the potential to cause significant adverse effects on the
environment in the area of Land Use and Planning, Geological Resources, Water, Air Quality,

- Transportation and Circulation, Hazards, Noise, Public Services, Aesthetic and Cultural
Resources. The projects will have less than a significant effect in other resource areas of the
checklist. It should be noted that Findings 2 through 10 are for those projects which require
work within existing utility rights-of-way for the purpose of modifying existing facilities or
installing new facilities. Finding | is applicable for work outside of the existing utility rights-of-
way.

In response to the Initial Study, the following specific measures should be incorporated into the -
projects to assure that they will not have any significant adverse effects on the environment. (See
Public Resources Code Section 21064.5.)

As a general matter, many of the mitigation measures rely on compliance with local standards
and the local ministerial permit process. Although local safety and aesthetic input is essential in
minimizing the impact of the petitioner's construction, local jurisdictions cannot impose
standards or permit requirements which would prevent petitioners from developing their service
territories, or otherwise interfere with the statewide interest in competitive telecommunication
service. Therefore, the petitioners’ required compliance with local permit requirements is subject
to this limitation.

The findings of the draft Negative Declaration were modified in response to comments filed
during the public comment period from Negative Declarations II and I V. Changes are marked by
italics.

1. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental effects for all
environmental factors if a proposed project extends beyond the utility right-of-way into
undisturbed areas or into other rights-of-way. ("Utility right-of-way" means any utility

4

168 of 682


--- page 169 ---
right-of-way, not limited to only telecommunication utility right-of-way.) For the most
part, the petitioners do not plan to conduct projects that are beyond the utility nght-of-
way. However, should this occur, the petitioner shall file a Petition to. Modify its
Certificate for Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN). An appropriate
environmental analysis of the impacts of these site specific activities shall be done.

2. The proposed projects will not have any significant effects on Population and
Housing, Biological Resources, Energy and Mineral Resources, and Recreation if the
proposed projects remain within existing utility right-of-way. There are no potential
environmental effects in these areas, or adequate measures are incorporated into the
projects to assure that significant effects will not occur.

3. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental effects on
Geological Resources because possible upgrades or installations to underground conduits
may induce erosion due to excavation, grading and fill. It is unclear as to how many
times underground conduits may be accessed by the petitioners, but it is reasonable to
assume that constant excavation by various providers could result in erosion in areas
where soil containment is particularly unstable.

In order to mitigate. any potential effects on geological resources, the petitioners shall
comply with all local design, construction and safety standards by obtaining all applicable
ministerial permits from the appropriate local agencies. In particular, erosion control
plans shall be developed and implemented for areas identified as particularly unstable or
susceptible to erosion. If more than one petitioner plans to excavate geologically
sensitive areas, coordination of their plans shall be necessary to minimize the number and
duration of disturbances.

4. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental effects on
Water Resources because possible upgrades or installation to underground conduits may
be in close proximity to underground or surface water sources. While the anticipated
construction will generally occur within existing utility rights-of-way, the projects have
the potential to impact nearby water sources if heavy excavation is required as the method
of access to the conduits. :

In order to mitigate any potential effects on water resources, the petitioners shall comply
with all local design, construction and safety standards. This will include consultation
with all appropriate local, state and federal water resource agencies for projects that are in
close proximity to water resources, underground or surface. The petitioners shall comply
with all applicable local, state and federal water resource regulations. Appropriate site
specific mitigation plans shall be developed by the petitioners if the projects impact water
quality, drainage, direction, flow or quantity. If there is more than one petitioner for a
particular area that requires excavation, coordination plans shall be required to minimize
the number and duration of disturbances.

5

169 of 682



--- page 170 ---
5. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental effects on Air
Quality because possible excavation efforts for underground conduits may result in
vehicle emissions and airborne dust for the immediate areas of impact. This is especially
foreseeable if more than one petitioner should attempt such work in the same locale.
While the impact will be temporary, the emissions and dust could exceed air quality
standards for the area.

The petitioners shall develop and implement appropriate dust control measures during

excavation as recommended by the applicable air quality management district. The

petitioners shall comply with al! applicable air quality standards as established by the

affected air quality management districts. If there is more than one petitioner for a

particular area that requires excavation, coordination plans shall be required to minimize
the number and duration of disturbances.

6. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental impacts on
Transportation and Circulation and Public Services because uncoordinated efforts by the
petitioners to install fiber optic cable could result in a cumulative impact of traffic
congestion, insufficient parking and hazards or barriers for pedestrians. This is
foreseeable if the competitors choose to compete in the same locality .and desire to install
their own cables. If the selected area is particularly dense with heavy vehicular or
pedestrian traffic, the impacts could be enormous without sufficient contro] and
coordination. Uncoordinated efforts may also adversely impact the quality and longevity
of public street maintenance because numerous excavation activity depreciates the life of
the surface pavement. Impacts from trenching activity may occur in utility rights-of-way
that contain other Public Services such as irrigation water lines.

The petitioners’ shall coordinate their efforts to install fiber optic cables or additional
conduits so that the number of encroachments to the utility rights-of-way are minimized.
These coordination efforts shall also include affected transportation and planning
agencies to coordinate other projects unrelated to the petitioners’ projects. For example,
review of a planning agency's Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) to identify impacted
street projects would be an expected part of the coordination effort by the petitioner.
Besides coordinating their efforts, the petitioners shall abide by all local construction,
maintenance and safety standards (and state standards, if applicable) by acquiring the
necessary ministerial permits from the appropriate local agency or CalTrans (if within a
State right-of-way). Examples of these permits are excavation, encroachment and
building permits. Appropriate construction start and end times, and dates if appropriate,

2 The petitioners discussed in this Negative Declaration shall coordinate with all CLCs including those listed in the
first Negative Declaration adopted by the Commission (D.95-12-057) and all CLCs in future Negative Declarations.
CLCs covered in the first Negative Declaration shall likewise be expected coordinate with those CLCs listed in this .
Negative Declaration or any subsequent one adopted by the Commission.

170 of 682


--- page 171 ---
shall be employed to avoid peak traffic periods and to minimize disruption, especially if
the petitioners’ work encroaches upon transportation rights-of-way. Petitioners shall
consult with local agencies on appropriate restoration of public service facilities that are
damaged by the construction and shall be responsible for such restoration.

7. The proposed projects could have potentially significant hazard-related effects because
uncoordinated construction efforts described above could potentially interfere with
emergency response or evacuation plans. There is also potential for an increase in
overhead lines and poles which carry hazard-related impacts.

The same mitigation plan as described in the previous section is applicable here as well,
and shall be augmented by notice to and consultation with emergency response or
evacuation agencies if the proposed project interferes with routes used for emergencies or
evacuations. The coordination efforts shall include provisions so that emergency or
evacuation plans are not hindered. If the projects result in an increase in overhead
communication lines, the petitioner shall obtain the necessary ministerial permits.to erect
the necessary poles to support the lines. The Commission shall include these facilities as
part of its overhead line regular inspections so that the requirements of G.O. 95 are met.

8. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental effects on
Noise because it is possible some projects may require excavation or trenching. Although
the effect is likely to be short-term, existing levels of noise could be exceeded.

If the petitioner requires excavation, trenching or other heavy construction activities
which would produce significant noise impacts, the petitioner shall abide by all
applicable local noise standards and shall inform surrounding property owners and
occupants (particularly school districts, hospitals and the residential neighborhoods) of
the day(s) when most construction noise would occur. Notice shall be given at least two
weeks in advance of the construction.

9. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental effects on
aesthetics because it is possible that additional lines on poles in utility rights-of-way
could become excessive for a particular area Aesthetic impacts may also occur in utility
rights-of-way that are landscaped. Moreover, there is potential for an increase in above
grade utility service boxes or cabinets which also carry aesthetic impacts.

Local aesthetic concerns shall be addressed by the petitioners for all facilities that are
above-ground, in particular all types of service boxes or cabinets. The local land use or
planning agency shall be consulted by the petitioner so that any site-specific aesthetic
impacts are assessed and properly mitigated. For example, this may include restoration
of the landscaped utility rights-of-way.

10. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental effects on

7

171 of 682


--- page 172 ---
cultural resources because situations involving additional trenching may result in
disturbing known or unanticipated archaeological or historical resources.

The petitioners shall conduct appropriate data research for known cultural resources in
the proposed project area, and avoid such resources in designing and constructing the
project. Should cultural resources be encountered during construction, all earthmoving
activity which would adversely impact such resources shall be halted or altered so as to
avoid such impacts, until the petitioner retains the service of a qualified archaeologist
who will do the appropriate examination and analysis. The archeologist shall consult
with appropriate federal, state and local agencies concerned with cultural resources, so
that any potential impacts upon cultural resources are assessed and properly avoided or
mitigated. The archeologist shall, in coordination with agencies, develop a plan for
avoiding or mitigating any potential impacts upon those resources encountered.

In summary, the Mitigation Measures recommended in this environmental determination are:

A) All Environmental Factors: if a proposed project extends beyond the utility right-of-
way into undisturbed areas or other right-of-way, the petitioner shall file a Petition to
Modify its Certificate for Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN). ("Utility right-of-
way" means any utility. right-of-way, not limited to only telecommunications utility right-
of-way.) An appropriate environniental analysis of the impacts of these site specific
activities shall be done.

If the projects remain within the utility right-of-way, the following Mitigation Measures are
Tecommended: .

B) General Cumulative Impacts: in the event that more than one petitioner seeks
modifications or additions to a particular locality, the petitioners shall coordinate their
plans with each other, and consult with affected local agencies so that any cumulative
effects on the environment are minimized. These coordination efforts shall reduce the
number and duration of disturbance to existing utility right-of-way. Regardless of the
number of petitioners for a particular locality, the petitioner shall consult with, and abide
by the standards established, by all applicable local agencies. Each petitioner shall file a
quarterly report, one month prior to the beginning of each quarter, that summarizes the
construction projects that.are anticipated for the coming quarter. The summary will
contain a description of the type of construction and the location for each project so that
the local planning agencies can adequately coordinate multiple projects if necessary. The
reports will also contain a summary of the petitioner's compliance with all Mitigation
Measures for the projects listed. The quarterly reports will be filed with the local
planning agencies where the projects are expected to take place and the Commission’s
Telecommunications Division. The Commission filing will be in the form of an
informational advice letter. Subsequent quarterly reports shall also summarize the status

8

172 of 682


--- page 173 ---
of the projects listed in previous quarterly report, until they are completed.

C) Geologicai Resources: the petitioners shall comply with all local design construction
and safety standards by obtaining all applicable ministerial permits from the appropriate
local agencies including the development and approval of erosion control plans. These
shall be developed and implemented for areas identified as particularly unstable or
susceptible to erosion. If more than one petitioner plans to excavate sensitive areas,
coordination of their plans shall be necessary to minimize the number of disturbances.
The petitioner's compliance with this Mitigation Measure shall be included in its
quarterly report.

D) Water Resources: the petitioners shall consult with all appropriate local, state and
federal water resource agencies for projects that are in close proximity to water resources,
underground or surface. The petitioners shall comply with all applicable local, state and
federal water resource regulations including the development of site-specific mitigation
plans should the projects impact water quality, drainage, direction, flow or quantity. If
there is more than one petitioner for a particular area that requires excavation,
coordination plans shall be required to minimize the number of disturbances. The
petitioner's compliance with this Mitigation Measure shall be included in its quarterly
report.

E) Air Quality: the petitioners shall develop and implement appropriate dust control
measures during excavation as recommended by the applicable air quality management
district. The petitioners shall comply with all applicable air quality standards as
established by the affected air quality management districts. If there is more than one
petitioner for a particular area that requires excavation, coordination plans shall be
required to minimize the number of disturbances. The petitioner's compliance with this
Mitigation Measure shail be included in its quarterly report.

F) Transportation and Circulation and Public Services: the petitioners’ shall
coordinate their efforts to install fiber optic cables or additional conduits so that the
number of disturbances to the utility rights-of-way are minimized. These coordination
efforts shall include affected transportation and planning agencies to coordinate other
projects unrelated to the petitioners’ projects. For example, review of a planning agency's
Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) to identify impacted street projects would be an
expected part of the coordination effort by the petitioner. Besides coordinating their
efforts, the petitioners shall abide by all local construction, maintenance and safety
standards (and state standards, if applicable) by acquiring the necessary ministerial
permits from the appropriate local agency and/or CalTrans (if within State right-of-way).
Examples of these permits are excavation, encroachment and building permits.
Appropriate construction start and end times, and dates if appropriate, shall be employed

3 See Footnote #2.

173 of 682



--- page 174 ---
to avoid peak traffic periods, especially if the petitioners’ work encroaches upon
transportation rights-of-way. Notice to the affected area (surrounding property owners
and occupants) shal] be given at least two weeks in advance of the construction. The
notice will provide the time and dates of the proposed construction and discussion of
potential impacts on traffic and circulation. Petitioners shall consult with local agencies
on appropriate restoration of public service facilities that are damaged by the
construction and shall be responsible for such restoration. The notice required for
Mitigation Measures F and H shall be consolidated. The petitioner's compliance with this
Mitigation Measure shal! be included in its quarterly report.

G) Hazards: the petitioners shall use the Transportation and Circulation mitigation
measure and augment it by informing and consulting with emergency response or
evacuation agencies if the proposed project interferes with routes used for emergencies or
evacuations. The coordination effort shall include provisions so that emergency or
evacuation plans are not hindered. If the projects result in an increase in overhead
communication lines, the petitioner shall obtain the necessary ministerial permits to erect
the necessary poles to support the lines. The Commission shall include these facilities as
part of its overhead line regular inspections so that the requirements of G.O. 95 are met.
The petitioner's compliance with this Mitigation Measure shall be included in its
quarterly report.

H) Noise: the petitioner shall abide by all applicable local noise standards and shall
inform surrounding property owners and occupants, particularly school districts, hospitals

-and the residential neighborhoods, of the day(s) when most construction noise would
occur if the petitioner plans excavation, trenching or other heavy construction activities
which would cause any significant noise. Notice shall be given at least two weeks in
advance of the construction. The notice required for Mitigation Measures F and H shall
be consolidated. The petitioner's compliance with this Mitigation Measure shall be
included in its quarterly report.

I) Aesthetics: All applicable local aesthetic standards will be addressed by the petitioners
for all facilities that are above-ground, in particular all types of service boxes or cabinets.
The local land use agency shall be consulted by the petitioner so that any site-specific
aesthetic impacts are assessed and properly mitigated by the petitioner. For example, this
may include restoration of the landscaped utility rights-of-way. Petitioner's compliance
with this Mitigation Measure shall be included in its quarterly report.

J) Cultural Resources: The petitioners shall conduct appropriate data research for
known cultural resources in the proposed project area, and avoid such resources in
designing and constructing the project. Should cultural resources be encountered during
construction, all earthmoving activity which would adversely impact such resources shall
be halted or altered until the petitioner retains the service of a qualified archaeologist who
will do the appropriate examination and analysis. The archaeologist will provide

10

174 of 682


--- page 175 ---
proposals for any procedures to mitigate the impact upon those resources encountered.
The treatment plan will be designed through coordination with the appropriate federal,
state and local agencies. The petitioner's compliance with this Mitigation Measure shall
be included in its quarterly report.

General Statement for all Mitigation Measures:

Although local safety and aesthetic input is essential in minimizing the impact of the petitioner's
construction, local jurisdictions cannot impose standards or permit requirements which would
prevent petitioners from developing their service territories, or otherwise interfere with the
statewide interest in competitive telecommunication service. Therefore, the petitioners’ required
compliance with local permit requirements is subject to this limitation.

With the implementation of the mitigation measures listed in A) - J) above, the Commission
should conclude that the proposed projects will not have one or more potentially significant
environmental effects. The Commission should also adopt a Mitigation Monitoring Plan which
will ensure that the Mitigation Measures listed above will be followed and implemented. The
Mitigation Monitoring Plan is included with this Negative Declaration as Appendix C.

Natalie Walsh, Program Manager
Analysis Branch
Energy Division

4-27-19

Date

175 of 682


--- page 176 ---
INITIAL STUDY CHECKLIST

Environmental Factors Potentially Affected:

The environmental factors checked below would be potentially affected by this project, involving at least one
impact that is a "Potentially Significant Impact" as indicated by the checklist on the following pages.

Land Use and Planning Transportation/C irculation | Public Services

O Population and Housing O Biological Resources &) Utilities and Service
Systems
) Geological Problems O Energy and Mineral Resources
Aesthetics
{&] Water Hazards
GJ Cultural Resources

& Air Quality &) Noise

© Recreation
[x] Mandatory Findings of
Significance

Note: For construction outside of the utility rights-of-way, potential environmental impacts are too variable
and uncertain to be specifically evaluated in this Initial Study, but are addressed in Environmental
Determination 1 and Mitigation Measure (A) in the Negative Declaration.

Determination:
On the basis of this initial evaluation:

| find that the proposed projects COULD NOT have a significant effect
on the environment, and a NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared.

| find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect
on the environment, there will not be-a significant effect in this case be-
cause the mitigation measures described on an attached sheet have been
added to the projects. A NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared.

| find that the proposed projects MAY have a significant effect on the
environment, and an ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT is required.

| find that the proposed projects MAY have a significant effect(s) on the
environment, but at least one effect 1) has been adequately analyzed in an
earlier document pursuant to applicable legal standards, and 2) has been
addressed by mitigation measures based on an earlier analysis as described

on attached sheets, if the effect is a "potentially significant impact” or
"potentially significant unless mitigated." An ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
REPORT is required, but it must analyze only the effects that remain to be
addressed.

176 of 682


--- page 177 ---
| find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the
environment, there WILL NOT be a significant effect in this case because all
potentially significant effects (a) have been analyzed adequately in an earlier
EIR pursuant to applicable standards and (b) have been avoided or mitigated
pursuant to that earlier EIR, including revisions or mitigation measures that are
imposed upon the proposed project.

foe 27-997
Date

Signature Fw N- Wels b

Natalie Walsh Program Manager
Printed Name Analysis Branch

Energy Division
California Public Utilities Commission

177 of 682


--- page 178 ---
|. LAND USE AND PLANNING. Would the proposal:

Conflict with general plan designation or
zoning?

Conflict with applicable environmental plans

or policies adopted by agencies with jurisdiction

over the project?

Be incompatible with existing land use in the
vicinity?

Affect agricultural resources or operations
(e.g. impacts to soils or farmlands, or impacts
from incompatible land uses)?

Disrupt or divide the physical arrangement of
an established community (including a low-
income or minority community)?

Potentially
Significant
Unless
Mitigation
Incorporated

Less Than
Significant
Impact

Potentially
Significant
Impact

No
Impact

0 & O oO

The proposed projects are not anticipated to:have any significant impacts on general or environmental plans,
zoning, existing land usage, or agricultural resources. The projects are essentially modifications to existing
facilities within established utility rights-of-way. Since these rights-of-way are already designed to be in
compliance with zoning and land use plans, disruption of such plans are not foreseeable. In the event that the
petitioners need to construct facilities that extend beyond the rights-of-way, see Mitigation Measure A in the

Negative Declaration.

Il. POPULATION AND HOUSING. Would the proposal:

Cumulatively exceed official regional or
local population projections?

a)

b) Induce substantial growth in an area either
directly or indirectly (e.g. through projects in
an undeveloped area or extension of major

infrastructure?

Displace existing housing, especially affordable
housing?

c)

Oo D 0 fx)

Oo a) Oo &

The proposed projects will not have impacts upon population or housing. The purpose of the projects is to

3

178 of 682


--- page 179 ---
introduce competition into the local telephone service market. Since competition will be generally statewide and
not centered in one locale, it is not anticipated that the projects will have an effect on population projections or
housing availability of any particular area. The areas that will not initially receive the competition are rural, less
populated areas; it cannot be seen that the initial lack of competitive services in these areas will result i in
significant movements of people to areas where competition will be heavy.

Potentially
Significant
Potentially Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation Significant = No
Impact Incorporated Impact Impact
III. GEOLOGIC PROBLEMS. Would the proposal result
in or expose people to potential impacts involving:
a) Fault rupture? Oo 0 o .
b) Seismic ground shaking? O a) a) t)
c) Seismic ground failure, including liquefaction? oO a) | &
d) — Seiche, tsunami, or volcanic hazard? 0 oO O ea
e) Landslides or mudflows? Oo &) 0 8)
f) Erosion, changes in topography or unstable
soil conditions from excavation, grading, or
fill? o & . Oo 0
g) Subsidence of land? 0 Oo Oo
h) Expansive soils? a) o 0 &
i) Unique geologic or physical features? 0 O 0 3}

The projects will be constructed within existing utility facilities or established utility rights-of-way and will
therefore not expose people to new risks for any of these impacts, except possibly erosion. Should additional cable
facilities require the installation of new or upgraded conduits, trenching, excavation, grading and fill could be
required. For appropriate mitigation, see > Mitigation Measures (B) and (C) for details in the Negative
Declaration.

IV. WATER. Would the proposal result in:

a) Changes in absorption rates, drainage patterns,
or the rate and amount of surface runoff? 0 es) 0 [x]

b) Exposure of people or property to water
related hazards such as flooding? 0 0 a) x)

179 of 682


--- page 180 ---
Potentially

Significant
Potentially - Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation Significant No
Impact Incorporated Impact Impact
c) Discharge into surface waters or other alteration
of surface water quality (e.g. temperature, dissolved
_oxygen or turbidity)? OO: - oO O
d) Changes in the amount of surface water in any ;
water body? o . Oo Oo x
e) Changes in currents, or the course or direction
of water movements? O 0 0 &
f) Change in the quantity of ground waters, either
through direct additions or withdrawals, or
through interception of an aquifer by cuts or
excavations or through substantial loss of
groundwater recharge capability? O &
g) Altered direction or rate of flow of groundwater? Oo &
h) Impacts to groundwater quality? | Oo | & 0 oO:
i) Substantial reduction in the amount of groundwater .
otherwise available for public water supplies? 0 0 0 &

The projects will involve alterations to existing telecommunication facilities (underground conduits or overhead
poles) but could expose additional risks if more than one petitioner decide to compete in the same locality. Efforts
to install cables, or if necessary, new conduits, in utility rights-of-way that are in close proximity to an
underground or surface water sources could carry significant effects for quality, flow, quantity, direction or
drainage if done improperly and without coordination. See Mitigation Measures (B) and (D) in the Negative
Declaration for details.

V. AIR QUALITY. Would the proposal:

a) Violate any air quality standard or contribute
to an existing or projected air quality violation? 0 & Oo 0

b) Expose sensitive receptors to pollutants? o &) Oo

180 of 682



--- page 181 ---
Potentially

Significant
Potentially Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation Significant No
Impact Incorporated Impact Impact
c) Alter air movement, moisture, or temperature, or
cause any change in climate? Oo QO QD (x)
d) Create objectionable odors? Oo O Oo &

If the projects do not require excavation or trenching of underground conduits, they will not have an effect upon
air quality, movement, temperature or climate. However, should the projects require such work and, if more than
one petitioner decide to work in the same locale, there is pote::tial for an increase in dust in the immediate area.
See Mitigation Measures (B) and (E) in the Negative Declaration for details.

VI. TRANSPORTATION/CIRCULATION.
Would the proposal result in:
a) Increased vehicle trips or traffic congestion? | i) D QO
b) Hazards to safety from design features (e.g.
sharp curves or dangerous intersections) or

incompatible uses (e.g. farm equipment)? im) x D 0

c) Inadequate emergency access or access to nearby

uses? 0 go O
d) Insufficient parking capacity on-site or off-site? D () O QO
e) Hazards or barriers for pedestrians or bicyclists? 0 x) D

f) Conflicts with adopted policies supporting
alternative transportation (e.g. bus turnouts, :
bicycle racks)? | D 0

g) Rail, waterborne or air traffic impacts? 0 Ka 0 0

The petitioners plan to mcdify existing utility conduits or poles within existing utility rights-of-way initially in
urban, commercial zones and residential areas. Modification of these facilities by a single party does not present
significant impacts upon traffic or circulation since the installation process is not expected to be lengthy.
However, if more than one of the petitioners decide to compete in the same locality, their efforts to install their
own cables will have a significant cumulative effect on circuiation, especially in dense, urban commercial areas.
Asa result, increases in traffic congestion, insufficient parking, and hazards or barriers for pedestrian are
possible. See Mitigation Measures (B) and (F) in the Negative Declaration for details.

181 of 682


--- page 182 ---
Potentially

Significant
Potentially Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation Significant No
Impact Incorporated Impact Impact
VI1. BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES.
Would the proposal result in impacts to:
a) Endangered, threatened, or rare species or their
habitats (including but not limited to plants, fish,
insects, animals, and birds)? oO oO | x)
b) Locally designated species (e.g. heritage trees)? O | oO .. oO &
¢) Locally designated natural communities (e.g. oak
forest, coastal habitat, etc.)? oO oO Oo Fa]
d) Wetland habitat (e.g. marsh, riparian and vernal
pool)? Oo Oo oO ei
—e) Wildlife dispersal or migration corridors? oO oO oO rs

The projects will not affect any biological resources since all anticipated work will occur within existing utility
facilities or established utility rights-of-way. Established utility rights-of-way are assumed to be outside of
locally designated natural communities, habitats or migration corridors.

Vill. ENERGY AND MINERAL RESOURCES.
Would the proposal result in:

a) Conflict with adopted energy conservation plans? © 0 Oo

b) Use non-renewable resources in a wasteful and
inefficient manner? | Oo oO &

c) Result in the loss of availability of a known mineral
resource that would be of future value to the
region and the residents of the State? O oOo | O es

The projects will no impact upon mineral resources or the use of energy. The projects provide competitive
telecommunication services that have no direct relationship to efficient energy use or mineral resources. The
installation of additional fiber optic cables are within existing facilities or rights-of-way that are assumed to have
adequate mitigation designs to avoid impacts on any mineral resources within proximity.

182 of 682


--- page 183 ---
Potentially
Significant
Potentially - Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation Significant No
Impact incorporated Impact Impact

IX. HAZARDS. Would the proposal involve:

a) Arisk of accidental explosion or release of
hazardous substances (including, but not limited
to: oil, pesticides, chemicals or radiation)?

Possible interference with an emergency response
pian or emergency evacuation plan?

. The creation of any health hazard or potential
health hazard?

d) Exposure of people to existing sources of potential
_ health hazards? Oo Oo Oo

e) Increased fire hazard in areas with flammable
brush, grass, or trees? oO oO 0

The installation of fiber optic cables can be a quick, clean and simple procedure with little use of heavy
machinery. However there may be situations where excavation and trenching of underground conduits is
necessary if the conduits are not easily accessible. Should this occur, uncoordinated efforts by the.petitioners in
one concentrated area could potentially affect emergency response or evacuation plans for that locale. See
Mitigation Measures (B) and (G) in the Negative Declaration for details. Once the project is completed, the
additional cables do not represent any additional hazards to people nor do they increase the possibility of fires.

X.. NOISE. Would the proposal result in:
a) _ Increases in existing noise levels? O [).: oO o

b) Exposure of people to severe noise levels? 0 x) o D

The anticipated projects can be a quick and simple procedure, but in some cases could require heavy machinery or
construction activity such as excavation, trenching, grading and refill. There is also the possibility that
uncoordinated efforts by the petitioners in one locale could increase existing noise levels, if their activities involve
the construction described. See Mitigation Measures (B) and (H) in the Negative Declaration for details.

183 of 682


--- page 184 ---
Potentially
Significant

Potentially Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation Significant No
Impact Incorporated Impact Impact
XI. PUBLIC SERVICES. Would the proposal have an
effect upon, or result in a need for new or altered
government services in any of the following areas:
a) Fire protection? ws) O O )
b) Police protection? o Oo o
c) Schools? Oo O 0 &)
d) Maintenance of public facilities, including roads? 0 . 0 O
e) Other government services? 0 Oo 0 &

The proposed projects will increase competition in the local telephone service. The construction associated with
the projects have potential impacts on the maintenance of public streets and roads. Numerous disturbances ‘to the
street surfaces depreciates the quality and longevity of the pavement. Trenching projects may also impact other
existing public service facilities (e.g. irrigation lines) in the utility rights-of-way. Mitigation Measure F addresses
this impact.

X11. UTILITIES AND SERVICE SYSTEMS. Would the
proposal result in a need for new systems or supplies,
or substantial alterations to the following utilities:

a) Power or natural gas? | 0 O Oo) &
b) Communication systems? 0 ww a}
c) Local or regional water treatment or

distribution facilities? — Oo O. 0
d) Sewer or septic tanks? | oO oO
e) Storm water drainage? oO oO 0 &
f) Solid waste disposal? 0 oO oO &
g) Local or regional water supplies? 0 O 0 Ea

The proposed projects could substantially alter communication systems in the event that existing facilities are
unable to accommodate all of the participants in the market. If this should occur, additional conduits or poles for
telecommunication equipment will need to be inserted in existing utility rights-of-way or the petitioners may seek
entry to other rights-of-way. If the petitioners are forced to construct outside of the existing utility rights-of-way,

9

184 of 682


--- page 185 ---
Mitigation Measure A is applicable. For work within the rights-of-way, see Mitigation Measure B in the Negative
Declaration.

Potentially
Significant
Potentially Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation _— Significant No
Impact Incorporated Impact Impact

XIII. AESTHETICS. Would the proposal:
a) Affect a scenic vista or scenic highway? QD 0 0
b) Havea demonstrated negative aesthetic effect? Oo om) on) oO
c) Create light or glare? Oo D 0 4]

The proposed projects will occur within utility rights of way that will be either be undergrounded or on existing
poles. Undergrounded facilities will have no demonstrated negative aesthetic effects. However, landscaped utility
rights-of-way may be impacted by trenching activities. Additional lines on the poles may be a concern, but the
proposed cables are not easily discernible and will unlikely have a negative impact. The only scenario where an
aesthetic effect can occur is if the number of competitors for a particular area become so heavy that the cables on
the poles become excessive. . There is potential for an increase in service boxes if the boxes cannot be installed
within buildings or underground. Should this occur, the petitioners should follow Mitigation Measures (B) and (1)
as described in the Negative Declaration.

XIV. CULTURAL RESOURCES. Would the proposal:

a) Disturb paleontological resources?
b) Disturb archaeological resources?
c) Affect historical resources?

d) Have potential to cause a physical change
which would affect unique ethnic cultural values? O &) Oo 0

e) Restrict existing religious or sacred uses within
the potential impact area? O Bl Oo 0

The projects will involve existing utility facilities or established rights-of -way that are assumed to be clear from
any paleontological, historical or archaeological resources. However, some projects may require excavation or
trenching of utility rights-of-way, or outside the rights-of-way. If sown or unanticipated cultural resources are
encountered during such work, then the Mitigation Measures (B) and (J) should be followed. See Negative
Deciaration for details.

185 of 682



--- page 186 ---
Potentially
Significant
Potentially Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation Significant . No
Impact Incorporated Impact ‘Impact

XV. RECREATION. Would the proposal:

a) _Increase.the demand for neighborhood or
regional parks or other recreational facilities? O D O &

b) Affect existing recreational opportunities? O O O

The projects will have no impact on recreational facilities or opportunities since these resources have no direction
relationship to increased competition in local telephone services.

XVI. MANDATORY FINDINGS OF SIGNIFICANCE.

a) Does the project have the potential to degrade the
quality of the environment, substantially reduce the
habitat of a fish or wildlife species, cause a fish or
wildlife population to drop below self-sustaining
levels, threaten to eliminate a plant or animal
community, reduce the number or restrict the range
of a rare or endangered plant or.animal, or eliminate
important examples of the major periods of California
history or prehistory? a)

Does the project have the potential to achieve
short-term, to the disadvantage of long-term,
environmental goals? Dp

Does the project have impacts that are individually
limited, but cumulatively considerable? ("Cumulatively
considerable” means that the incremental effects of a
project are considerable when viewed in connection
with the effects of past projects, the effects of other
current projects, and the effects of probably future
projects.) O

Does the project have environmental effects which
will cause substantial adverse effects on human beings,
either directly or indirectly? oO

186 of 682


--- page 187 ---
Appendix A

_ TFLEPNUNr EXCHANGE AREAS
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION

LEGEND

PACIIC BELL (PB)

GTE CALFOANLA (GT)

CONTE OF CALFORNA (CT)

OTHER TELEPHONE COMPANIES

UNFILED TERAMITOAY

NUMBER PLAN AREA BOUNDARIES (NPA) -AREA CODES"
LATA BOUNOARIES

PALM SPRINGS WARKET Anta

Ue
igen

Mh

cH
itil
i

|
|

|
i
a oe

H

HN
|
§
i"
Wh
a

| a I

fi

nye

a
I

ut
3_T

me

- ‘ en ~ L

ea con ea

oe

ae

ry
so


--- page 188 ---
APPENDIX B

PROJECT SPONSORS AND ADDRESSES

Eagle Communications of California, LLC
1.95-04-044 (Pet 132)

US Data Highway Corp.
1.95-04-044 (Pet. 133)

Seren Innovations, Inc.
1.95-04-044 (Pet. 134)

HTC Communications, LLC
1.95-04-044 (Pet. 135)

Network Plus, Inc.
1.95-04-044 (Pet. 136)

Campuslink Communications Systems, Inc.

1.95-04-044 (Pet. 137)

XL Networks, Inc.
1.95-04-044 (Pet. 138)

. Triad Communications Corporation
- 1,95-04-044 (Pet. 139)

1.95-04-044 (Pet. 140)

60 East 56" Street
New York, NY 10022

1113 Hopkins Way
Pleasanton, CA 94566

15 South 5" Street, Suite 500
Minneapolis, MN 55402

2131 N. Lamer Street
Burbank, CA 91504

234 Copeland Street
Quincy, MA 02169

1530 Eisenhower Place
Ann Arbor, MI 48108

909 Via Mirola | .
Palos Verdes Estates, CA 9027

2420 Sand Hill Road
Menlo, Park, CA 94025

700 Wilshire Boulevard, 7" Floor
Los Angeles, CA 90017

188 of 682


--- page 189 ---
Appendix.C
Mitigation Monitoring Plan

Competitive Local Carriers (CLCs)
Projects for Local Exchange Telecommunication Service throughout California

Introduction:

The purpose of this section is to describe the mitigation monitoring process for the CLCs'
proposed projects and to describe the roles and responsibilities of government agencies in
implementing and enforcing the selected mitigation measures.

California Public Utilities Commission (Commission):

The Public Utilities Code confers authority upon the Commission to regulate the terms of service
and safety, practices and equipment of utilities subject to its jurisdiction. It is the standard
practice of the Commission to require that mitigation measures stipulated as conditions of
approval be implemented properly, monitored, and reported on. Section 21081.6 of the Public
Utilities Code requires a public agency to adopt a reporting and monitoring program when it
approves a project that is subject to the adoption of a mitigated negative declaration.

The purpose of a reporting and monitoring program is to ensure that measures adopted to
mitigate or avoid significant environmental impacts are implemented. The Commission views
the reporting and monitoring program as a working guide to facilitate not only the
implementation of mitigation measures by the project proponents, but also the monitoring,
compliance and reporting activities of the Commission and any monitors it may designate.

The Commission will address its responsibility under Public Resources Code Section 21081.6
when it takes action on the CLCs' petitions to provide local exchange telephone service. If the
Commission adopts the Negative Declaration and approves the petitions, it will also adopt this
Mitigation Monitoring Plan as an attachment to the Negative Declaration.

Project Description:

The Commission has authorized various companies to provide local exchange telephone service
in competition with Pacific Bell, GTE California, Roseville Telephone Company and Citizens
Telephone Company of California. The.current petitioners notified the Commission of their
intent to compete in the territories throughout California, all of which are facilities-based services
meaning that they propose to use their own facilities to provide service.

189 of 682


--- page 190 ---
Step 1: Disputes and complaints (including those of the public) shall be directed first to the
Commission's designated Project Manager for resolution. The Project Manager will attempt to
resolve the dispute.

Step 2: Should this informal process fail, the Commission Project Manager may initiate
enforcement or compliance action to address deviation from the proposed project or adopted
Mitigation Monitoring Program.

Step. 3: Ifa dispute or complaint regarding the implementation or evaluation of the Mitigation
Monitoring Program or the Mitigation Measures cannot be resolved informally or through
enforcement or compliance action by the Commission, any affected participant in the dispute or
complaint may file a written "notice of dispute" with the Commission's Executive Director. This
notice shall be filed in order to resolve the dispute in a timely manner, with copies concurrently
served on other affected participants. Within 10 days of receipt, the Executive Director or
designee(s) shall meet or confer with the filer and other affected participants for purposes of
resolving the dispute. The Executive Director shall issue an Executive Resolution describing his
decision, and serve it on the filer and the other participants.

Partie: may also seek review by the Commission through existing procedures specified in the
Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, although a good faith effort should first be made
to use the foregoing procedure.

Mitigation Monitoring Program:

1. As discussed in Mitigation Measure B, the petitioners shall file a quarterly report which
summarizes those projects which they intend to construct for the coming quarter. The report will
contain a description of the project and its location, and a summary of the petitioner's compliance
with the Mitigation Measures described in the Negative Declaration. The purpose of the report is
to inform the local agencies of future projects so that coordination of projects among petitioners
in the same locality can be done. The quarterly report shall be filed with the appropriate
planning agency of the locality where the project(s) will occur. The report shall also bé filed as
an informational advice letter with the Commission’s Telecommunications Division so that
petitioner compliance with the Mitigation Measures are monitored..

In order to ensure that the Mitigation Measures are fulfilled, the Commission will make periodic
reviews of the projects listed in quarterly reports. The projects will be generally chosen at
random, although the Commission will review any project at its discretion. The reviews will
follow-up with the local jurisdictions so that all applicable Mitigation Measures are addressed.

190 of 682


--- page 191 ---
If any project is expected to go beyond the existing utility rights-of-way, that project will require
a separate petition to modify the CPCN. The petitioner shall file the petition with the
Commission and shall also inform the affected local agencies in writing. The local agencies are
also responsible for informing the Commission of any project listed in the quarterly reports
which may potentially go out of the existing utility nght-of-way. As discussed in Mitigation
Measure A, a complete environmental review of the project will be triggered under CEQA, with
the Commission as the lead agency.

2. In the event that the petitioner and the local agency do not agree if a project results in work
outside of the utility rights-of-way, the Commission will review the project and make the final
determination. See Dispute Resolution Process discussed above.

3. For projects that are in the utility rights-of-way, the petitioners shall abide by all applicable
local standards as discussed in the Mitigation Measures. If a petitioner fails to comply with local
regulatory standards by either neglecting to obtain the necessary permits, or by neglecting to
follow the conditions of the permits, the local agency shall notify the Commission and Dispute
Resolution Process begins..

4. The Commission is the final arbiter for all unresolvable disputes between the local agencies
and the petitioners. If the Commission finds that the petitioner has not complied with the
Mitigation Measures in the Negative Declaration, it may halt and terminate the project.

191 of 682


--- page 192 ---
Since many of the facilities-based petitioners are initially targeting local telephone service for
areas where their telecommunications infrastructure is already established, very little
construction is envisioned. However, there will be occasion where the petitioners will need to |
install fiber optic cable within existing utility underground conduits or attach cables to overhead
lines. There is the possibility that existing utility conduits or poles will be unable to
accommodate all the planned facilities, thereby forcing some petitioners to:build or extend
additional conduits into other rights-of-way, or into undisturbed areas. For more details on the
project description please see Project Description in the Negative Declaration.

Roles and Responsibilities:

As the lead agency under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the Commission is
required to monitor this project to ensure that the required mitigation measures are implemented.
- The Commission will be responsible for ensuring full compliance with the provisions of this
monitoring program and has primary responsibility for implementation of the monitoring
program. The purpose of this monitoring program is to document that the mitigation measures
required by the Commission are implemented and that mitigated environmental impacts are
reduced to insignificance or avoided outright.

Because of the geographic extent of the proposed projects, the Commission may delegate duties
and responsibilities for monitoring to other environmental monitors or consultants as deemed
necessary. For specific enforcement responsibilities of each mitigation measure, please refer to
the Mitigation Monitoring Table attached to this plan. .

The Commission has the ultimate authority to halt any construction, operation, or maintenance
activity associated with the CLC's local telephone service projects if the activity is determined to

. be a deviation from the approved project or adopted mitigation measures. For details refer to the
mitigation monitoring plan discussed below. -

Mitigation Monitoring Table:

‘The table attached to this plan presents a compilation of the Mitigation Measures in the Negative
Declaration. The purpose of the table is to provide the monitoring agencies with a single
comprehensive list of mitigation measures, effectiveness criteria, the enforcing agencies, and
timing. .

Dispute Resolution Process:

The Mitigation Monitoring Plan is expected to reduce or eliminate many potential disputes.
However, in the event that a dispute occurs, the following procedure will be observed:

192 of 682


--- page 193 ---
Mitigation Monitoring Table

72 Imnact

ALL FACTOR

Extenston or work
beyond or outside of

of the existing
utility right-of-way
into undisturbed

areas.

Cumulative im-
pacts due to

multiple disturb-
ances to a par-
ticular area.

A. Petitioner must file a Petitton

Quarterly raports.
to modify its CPCN. An appropriate .
environmental study of the

project ts dona.

B. Coordinatton efforts among
the petitioners and the affect-

ed focal agencies so that

Quarterly reports.

construction projacts in the
same location can be com-

bined or simultaneous.

Any work outside of
extsting utility right-of-

Before construction

way ls assessed
through an environ-
mental study.

The number and duratlon | Local agencies. Before constructlon

of disturbances to a
particular area are
minimized.

Potentlat erosion
due to excavation,

grading and fill.

C. Petitioners shall comply
with all local design, construc-

tlon and safely standards
through permit process. Eroston
control plans for areas identifiad
as susceptible to erosion.

Quarterly reports.

Eroston at the project
areas is contained.

Local agencies. Before and during

contruction.

Potential impact on water
tesouces, underground

or surface due to exca-

vation or grading work.

D. Petitioners shall consult with
all appropriate water resource

Quarterly reports.

agencies for projects In close
proximity to water resouces
Appropriate mitigation plans shail
be developed and compliance to

atl local and state watar regu-
latlons is required.

impacts to waler qua-
lity, drainage, flow, di-

fection and quantity

Federal agencies | Before and during
Local agencies construction...
Applicable state

are averted "water resource

agencies.

* The CPUC is ultimately responsible for compliance with the mitigation measures listed in this document, but shal! defer the responsibility to federal, state and
local agencies, unless otherwise designated.

193 of 682

«ao



--- page 194 ---
“~
ts
=
i]
°
ba]
>
2)
a)
ts
=z
—]
ei
bd
~]

ww

Mitigation Monitoring Table

Potentiat increase in overhead
poles and communication fines.

Noise standards for the area are
exceeded due to consiruction.

AESTHETICS

Service boxes or cabinets may
be a visual blight. Landscaping

in utility right-of-way may be
impacted by trenching.

CULTURAL RESOURCES

Cultural resources are encount-
ered during construction; resour-

ces are damaged or moved.

| risen

G. Petitioner shafl Le ecaane TRaGHSI GI REG afl neces
sary building permits for the poles.

CPUC will Inspect the overhead

H. Ail applicable nolse standards
shali be complied with by the peti

tioners.

Petitioners shall notice the
surrounding area of construc-
{tons dates and times.

MORepas oF I

ae Or eat i

er si ee a

a reports.

Poles are bullt in com-
pliance with focal safe-

ty standards. Lines
are Inspected and
maintained as safe.

Locaf agencies.

Before and during
construction.

Quarterly reports.

Noise from construc-

Locai agencies
tion is kept to levels :

that do not exceed
tocat standards.

\. All applicable aesthetic
Standards will be met by

petitioners for above-ground
factities, especially service
cabinets. Consult with focal
agencies on proper restoration of
landscaping.

J. All earthmoving that would
impact the resources shall

cease or be altered until the
petitioner retains the service
of an archaeotogist who will
propose mitigation. Thorough re-

search done prior to construction to
avoid known resources.

Quarterty reports.

Quarterly reports.

Cabinets are placed
within existing bultd-

ings. underground, or
in areas that are tand-

a agencies.

scaped so that aesthe-
tic Impacts are minimi-

zed. Landscaping res-
tofed to original form.

Local, state
and/or federal

Cultural resources that
are encountered are

not destroyed or ad-
versely Impacted.

agencies

Before and during
construction.

Before and during
construction.

 scac aR AG OSI and during construction.

194 of 682



--- page 195 ---
PROOF OF SERVICE BY MAIL

a Gr declare: .

I am over the age of 1g years, not a party to this
proceeding, and am employed by the California Public Utilities
Commission at 505 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco, California.

On f , I depositec in the mail at
ancisco, California, ac of:

47-06 -0¥3
(DECISION NUMBER OR TYPE OF HEARING)

I,

San Fr

7 6/497
(DATE OF HEARING)

(APPLICATION/CASE/OII/O R NUMBER)

in a sealed envelope, with postage prepaic, acdressec to the
last know address of each of the adcressees in the attachec
lise.
I Geclare uncer penalty of perjury that the foregoing
ané thac chis declaraticn was executec on
at San Francisco, California.

tbh Ae

*Sicnature
9/92

195 of 682



--- page 196 ---
CA-21

6/24/99

R 95-04-043
I 95-04-044

pecision: / ) -0 6 04 5

MAIL DATE: y 2/75
Copy of “ OPINION “ and order mailed to the following.

SEE ATTACHED LIST FOR APPEARANCES, STATE SERVICE
L
Count 24 J

6/18/99
lil

doc #15576 (rev. 3/4/98)

196 of 682


--- page 197 ---
kkkkkkkkkekK SERVICE LIST kkkk kk kkk

Last updated on 18-JUN-1999 by: LIL
R9504043 LIST
19504044

kk KK KKK ERK RDPRARANCES 3 * tt RR ii ie William Brown

Matthew C. Ames

WILLIAMS MALONE/WILLIAMS L. LOWERY
Attorney At Law:

1155 CONNECTICUT AVE., NW, STE. 1000
WASHINGTON DC 20036

(202) 785-0600
mames@millervaneaton.com

For: BO&MAI/IREM/NAA/NAREIT/NMHC

Randolph W. Deutsch
Attorney At Law

AT&T COMMUNICATIONS OF CALIFORNIA, INC.

795 FOLSOM STREET, ROOM 690
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94107
(415) 442-5560
deutsch@lga.att.com

Jerry Varcak

Vice President

BANK OF AMERICA

PO BOX 37000, DEPT 13892

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94137

(925) 675-1042
gerald.varcak@bankamerica.com

Jeffrey F. Beck

BECK & ACKERMAN

4 EMBARCADERO CENTER, SUITE 760
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 263-7300

jillbit@aol.com

Stephen P. Bowen

Attorney At Law

BLUMENFELD & COHEN

4 EMBARCADERO CENTER, SUITE 1170
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 394-7500
steve@technologylaw.com

For: SpectraNet International

Walter C. Finch
Executive Vice President
BOMA CALIFORNIA

1000 BROADWAY, SUITE 355
OAKLAND CA 94607-4090

SUITE 14E06

1100 PEACHTREE ST, NE
ATLANTA GA 30309-4599
For: bakersfield cellular

Debra L. Carlton

Vice President

CALIFORNIA APARTMENT ASSOCIATION
980 NINTH STREET, STE 2150
SACRAMENTO CA 95814-2741

(916) 447-7881

Darlene Clark

CALIFORNIA CABLE TELEVISION ASSN.
PO BOX 11080

OAKLAND CA 94611

(510) 428-2225

CACableTV@aol .com

Jerome Candelaria

Attorney At Law

CALIFORNIA CABLE TV ASSOCIATION

4341 PIEDMONT AVENUE, 2ND FLOOR

OAKLAND CA 94611-4715

For: CCTA, AT&T,ICG,TCG San Francisco, TCG Los
Angeles, TCG San Diego

Carmela Castellano
1535 MISSION STREET
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94103

Joshua M. King

Senior Counsel

CELLULAR ONE/DIGITAL PCS

651 GATEWAY BLVD., SUITE 1500
SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO CA 94080
(650) 827-5656

Jon Chambers

1850 M STREET, N.W. 11TH FLR.
WASHINGTON DC 20036

For: Sprint Telecommunications Venure

197 of 682



--- page 198 ---
Charles E. Born

Director, Regulatory Affairs
CITIZENS COMMUNICATIONS

7901 FREEPORT BLVD., SUITE 200
SACRAMENTO CA 95832

(916) 665-5355

cborn@czn.com

Barbara L. Snider

Attorney At Law

CITIZENS COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY
7901 FREEPORT BLVD., SUITE 100
SACRAMENTO CA 95832

(916) 665-5335

bsnider@czn.com

Louise Renne

CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO

1390 MARKET ST., SUITE 250

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

For: City of LA/Sacramento/San Carlos/San Jose/
Santa Monica/San Mateo Cnty Tel Auth/City & Cnty
San

Robert D. Herrick

City Attorney

CITY OF MORENO VALLEY

14177 FREDERICK STREET
MORENO VALLEY CA 92552-0805
(909) 413-3036

For: CITY OF MORENO VALLEY

Nick Rahe

CITY OF SANTA ANA
PO BOX 1988

SANTA ANA CA 92702

Traci Bone

JULIA M.C. FRIEDLANDER

Deputy City Attorney

CITY/COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO

1390 MARKET ST., 5TH FLOOR

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102-5408

(415) 554-4257

For: The City of LA/Sacramento/San Carlos/San
Jose/Santa Monica;San Mateo Co Telcom Auth;S.F.
City &

Terry Monroe

Vice President, State Affairs
COMPETITIVE TELECOMMUNICATIONS ASSN
1900 M STREET, N.W., SUITE 800
WASHINGTON DC 20036 ;
(202) 296-6650

tmonroe@comptel .org

~

kkkkkkkkekkek SERVICE LIST kkkKKKKKKKKKEK

E. Garth Black

Attorney At Law

COOPER, WHITE & COOPER

201 CALIFORNIA ST., 17TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 433-1900

spb1@cwclaw.com

Mark P. Schreiber

Attorney At Law

COOPER, WHITE & COOPER, LLP

201 CALIFORNIA STREET, 17TH FLOOR

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 433-1900

spbl@cwclaw.com

For: Roseville Telephone Company/Smaller
Independent LECs ,

Dhruv Khanna

Vice President, General Counsel
COVAD COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY
2330 CENTRAL EXPRESSWAY

SANTA CLARA CA 95050

(408) 490-4560
dkhanna@covad.com

Carrington Phillip

COX CALIFORNIA TELCOM INC.
1400 LAKE HEARN DRIVE NE
ATLANTA GA 30319

Richard Smith

Director, State Regulatory Affairs
COX CALIFORNIA TELCOM, LLC

2200 POWELL STREET, SUITE 795
EMERYVILLE CA 94608-2618

(510) 923-6220
richard.smith@cox.com

Karen L. Peterson

Attorney At Law

CROSBY HEAFEY ROACH & MAY

1999 HARRISON STREET, 26TH FLOOR
OAKLAND CA 94612

(510) 466-6855
klpeterson@chrm.com

Daniel M. Waggoner
DAVIS WRIGHT TERMAINE
2600 CENTURY SQUARE
1501 FOURTH AVENUE
SEATTLE WA 98101-1688

198 of 682.


--- page 199 ---
ekkkkkeeekee SERVICE LIST #88 eee RRR RK

David J. Marchant

Attorney At Law

DAVIS WRIGHT TREMAINE LLP

ONE EMBARCADERO CENTER, STE 600

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-3834

(415) 276-6568
davidmarchant@dwt.com

For: Teleport Commun.Grp,Cable Plus,

Mark P. Trinchero

Attorney At Law

DAVIS WRIGHT TREMAINE LLP

1300 SW STH AVENUE, SUITE 2300
PORTLAND OR 97201

For: ELECTRIC LIGHTWAVE

Jones Day
555 W FIFTH ST SUITE 4600
LOS ANGELES CA 90013

Shelly Bergum

Executive Director

DEAF & DISABLED TELECOM PROGRAM
1939 HARRISON STREET, SUITE 520
OAKLAND CA 94612-3532

Virginia J. Taylor

Attorney At Law

DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
400 R STREET, SUITE 3090
SACRAMENTO CA 95814-6200

(916) 445-5126

Laura H. Phillips

DOW LOHNES & ALBERTSON

1200 NEW HAMPSHIRE AVENUE, N.W.
WASHINGTON. DC 20036-6802

Penny H. Bewick

Government & Industry Affairs
ELECTRIC LIGHTWAVE, INC.

4400 NE 77TH AVENUE, PO BOX 4678
VANCOUVER WA 98662-0678

(360) 896-3211

Hal Kluis

President

EVANS TELEPHONE COMPANY
4918 TAYLOR COURT
TURLOCK CA 95382-9599

Bill Tynes

FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
131 ALBRIGHT WAY SUITE C

LOS GATOS CA 95030

Jerrey P. Gray
Attorney At Law

‘GOODIN MACBRIDE SQUERI RITCHIE & DAY LLP

505 SANSOME STREET, STE 900
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111
(415) 392-7900
jsqueri@gmssr.com

For: Mountain Celluar

John L. Clark

Attorney At Law

GOODIN MACBRIDE SQUERI RITCHIE & DAY LLP
505 SANSOME STREET, 9TH FLOOR

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 765-8443

jclark@gmssr.com

For: HTC COMMUNICATIONS, LLC

Michael B. Day

Attorney At Law
GOODIN MACBRIDE SQUERI RITCHIE & DAY LLP
505 SANSOME STREET, SUITE 900

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-3133

(415) 392-7900

mday@gmssr.com

Peter W. Hanschen "

Attorney At Law

GRAHAM AND JAMES LLP

ONE MARITIME PLAZA, SUITE 300
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 954-0258
phanschen@gj .com

Barry Pineles
Regulatory Counsel
GST TELECOM, INC.
4001 MAIN STREET
VANCOUVER WA 98663
(360) 906-7104
bpineles@gstworld.net

Susan Rossi

GTE OF CALIFORNIA INCORPORATED
LEGAL DEPARTMENT

ONE GTE PLACE, CAS500LB
THOUSAND OAKS CA 91362-3811
(805) 372-6358

susan. rossi@telops.gte.com

199 of 682



--- page 200 ---
~

- kkk aKKKKKKEK SERVICE LIST #8 8% kkk R RR RE

Schelly Jensen
Manager-Government Relations
GTE WIRELESS

12677 ALCOSTA BOULEVARD

SAN RAMON CA 94583-0811"
(510) 904-3908

Bruce M. Holdridge

Director, Government Affairs
ICG TELECOM GROUP, INC.

180 GRAND AVENUE, SUITE .1000
OAKLAND CA 94612

(510) 251-7033

K.S. Noller

Assistant General Manger
IMPERIAL IRRIGATION DISTRICT
PO BOX 937

IMPERIAL CA 92251

Earl Nicholas Selby

Attorney At Law

LAW OFFICES OF EARL NICHOLAS SELBY
418 FLORENCE STREET

PALO ALTO CA 94301-1705

(650) 323-0990

enselby@wenet .net

Kim Logue

Regulatory Analyst

LCI INTERNATIONAL TELECOM CORP.
4250 N. FAIRFAX DRIVE, 12W002
ARLINGTON VA 22203

(703) 363-4321

kim. logue@qwest .net

Terry J. Houlihan

Attorney At Law

MCCUTCHEN DOYLE BROWN & ENERSEN LLP
3 EMBARCADERO CENTER, 18TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 393-2022

thoulihanemdbe.com

William C. Harrelson
ANTHONY DITIRRO

Attorney At Law

MCI WORLDCOM

201 SPEAR STREET, 9TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105
(415) 228-1090

william. harrelson@wcom.com

Woody Trayler
MCIMETRO

2250 LAKESIDE BLVD
RICHARDSON TX 75082

Mary E. Wand

Attorney At Law
MORRISON & FOERSTER LLP
425 MARKET STREET

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105
(415) 268-7201
mwand@mofo.com

Hojoon Hwang

Attorney At Law

MUNGER TOLLES & OLSON LLP

355 S. GRAND AVE., 35TH FLOOR
LOS ANGELES CA 90071-1560
(213) 683-9150
hwanghxemto.com

Burton Gross

MUNGER, TOLLES & OLSON, LLP

33 NEW MONTGOMERY STREET 19TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105

(415) 512-4024

grossba@mto.com

Terry Murray
MURRAY & ASSOCIATES
227 PALM DRIVER
PIEDMONT CA 94610

Helen M. Mickiewicz
Legal Division

RM. 5123

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-1319
hmm@cpuc.ca.gov

Joseph R. Cocke

NORTH AMERICAN NUMBERING PLAN ADM
SUITE 349

2060-D AVENUE ARBOLES

THOUSAND OAKS CA 91362

Martin A. Mattes

Attorney At Law

NOSSAMAN GUTHNER KNOX & ELLIOTT, LLP
50 CALIFORNIA STREET, 34TH FLOOR

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-4799

(415) 398-3600

mmattes@nossaman.com

Robert J. Gloistein

Attorney At Law

ORRICK HERRINGTON & SUTCLIFFE, LLP
400 SANSOME STREET

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-3143

(415) 773-5900
rgloistein@orrick.com

200 of 682



--- page 201 ---
kkkkKkKKKKKKK SERVICE LIST **#** kee KKK KEK

David Discher

ROBERT J. MAZIQUE

Attorney At Law

PACIFIC BELL

140 NEW MONTGOMERY ST, ROOM 1517
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105

(415) 542-7747
david.discher@pactel.com

For: Pacific Bell

Ed Kolto Wininger
Attorney At Law
PACIFIC BELL

140 NEW MONTGOMERY ST., ROOM 1619
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105

(415) 545-9422 —
ed.kolto.wininger@pactel.com

Nicola Erbe

Attorney At Law
‘PACIFIC BELL

140 NEW MONTGOMERY ST., ROOM 1514
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105

(415) 542-7691
nicola.erbe@pactel.com

Louis E. Vincent

Attorney At Law

PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY

PO BOX 7442

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94120

(415) 973-2981

For: Pacific Gas and Electric Company

Michelle L. Wilson

Attorney At Law

PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY

PO BOX 7442, LAW DEPT.

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94120

(415) 973-7467

For: PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY

\

Isabelle Salgado

PACIFIC TELESIS LEGAL GROUP
2600 CAMINO RAMON, ROOM 2W802
SAN RAMON CA 94583

Peter A. Casciato

Attorney At Law

PETER A. CASCIATO, A PROF. CORP.
8 CALIFORNIA STREET, SUITE 701
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-4825
(415) 291-8661
casciato@dnai.com

For: ASSOCIATION OF DIRECTORY PUBLISHERS ~

Randall B. Lowe

PIPER & MARBURY, L.L.P.
1200 NINETEENTH STREET, NW
WASHINGTOM DC 20036

Cheryl Hills

Attorney At Law

PRIMA LEGAL SERVICES

2317 BROADWAY, SUITE 350
REDWOOD CITY CA 94063

(650) 261-0500
chills@primelegal.com

For: Cox California Telcom

Maria E. Andrade

PUBLIC ADVOCATES, INC.

1535 MISSION STREET

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94103-2500
(415) 431-7430
MariaEAndrade@hotmail.com

Daniel Weaver

SAN FRANCISCO BEAUTIFUL

41 SUTTER STREET, SUITE 709
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94104

Natalie D. Wales

Attorney At Law

SPRINT COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY L.P.
1850 GATEWAY DRIVE, 7TH FLOOR

SAN MATEO CA 94404-2467

(650) 513-2732
natalie.d.wales@mail.sprint.com

Andrew Lipman

SWIDLER BERLIN SHEREFF FRIEDMAN, LLP
3000 K ST NW STE 300

WASHINGTON DC 20007

Peter J. Stapp

Vice President Of Regulatory Policy
TCI TELEPHONY SERVICES, INC.

5619 DTC PARKWAY

ENGLEWOOD CO 80111-3000

201 of 682


--- page 202 ---
Andrew O. Isar

Director, Industry Relations
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RESELLERS ASSN.
4312 92ND AVENUE, N.W. ,
GIG HARBOR WA 98335

(253) 265-3910
aisar@harbor-group.com

Deborah Waldbaum

KAREN NOTSUND

Attorney At Law

TELEPORT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP INC
1350 TREAT BOULEVARD, STE 500
WALNUT CREEK CA 94596

M:chael A. Morris
t+gional Vice President
TELEPORT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP INC.
+ FGULATORY AND EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
. 50 TREAT BLVD.
«i UNUT CREEK CA 94596
° 20) 949-0600
- rris@tcg.com

n.omas Long

THE UTILITY REFORM NETWORK
“.. VAN NESS AVE., STE 350
. 42: FRANCISCO CA 94102
+125) 929-8879

* ,ong@turn.org

cecil O. Simpson, Jr.

vS ARMY LEGAL SERVICES AGENCY

°901 NORTH STUART STREET, SUITE 713
ARLINGTON VA 22203-1837

(703) 696-1643

simpsco@hqda. army.mil

Susan Davis Morley

WIGGINS & VILLACORTA, P.A.
2145 DELTA BOULEVARD, STE 200
TALLAHASSEE FL 32302

(850) 385-6007
wiggvill@nettally.com

Michael J. Thompson
Attorney At Law

WRIGHT & TALISMAN, PC

1200 G STREET, N.W., STE 600
WASHINGTON DC 20005

(202) 393-1200
thompson@wrightlaw.com

~

- kkekkkkkkeke SERVICE LIST *tktetk kittie

David A. Simpson

Attorney At Law

YOUNG VOGL HARLICK WILSON & SIMPSON LLP
425 CALIFORNIA ST., STE 2500

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94104

(415) 291-1970

das@bizlaw.net

For: Western Fiber telecom, LLC

David M. Wilson

Attorney At Law

YOUNG VOGL HARLICK WILSON & SIMPSON LLP
425 CALIFORNIA STREET, STE 500

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94104-2107

(415) 291-1970

kkk kkkkkkkkkekk STATE SERVICE ** eke kK KK KKK KKK

Joseph A. Abhulimen
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-E

S505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-1458
jaa@cpuc.ca.gov

Natalie Billingsley

Office of Ratepayer Advocates
RM. 4101

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

(415) 703-1368
nxb@cpuc.ca.gov

Mary Jo Borak
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-D

S05 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-1879
bor@cpuc.ca.gov

Danny Shields

Manager

CALTRANS RIGHTS-OF-WAY PROGRAMS
1120 N STREET, MS 37

SACRAMENTO CA 95814-5690

Tracey F. Pirie
Administrarive Analyst

CITY OF SANTA BARBARA

PO BOX 1990

SANTA BARBARA CA 93102-1990

202 of 682



--- page 203 ---
Jerry Jazmadarian
Telcommunications Manager
COUNTY OF PLACER

2809 SECOND STREET
AUBURN CA 95603

(530) 889-7735

Brian M. Chang

Office of Ratepayer Advocates
RM. 4205

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

(415) 703-1333
bmc@cpuc.ca.gov

Robert T. Feraru
Public Advisor Office
RM. 5303

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-2074
rtf@cpuc.ca.gov

Janice L. Grau

Legal Division

RM. 5023

50S VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-1960
jlg@cpuc.ca.gov

Risa Hernandez
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-D

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-5331
rhh@cpuc.ca.gov

Karen Jones
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-D

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-1955
kaj@cpuc.ca.gov

Ira Kalinsky

Legal Division

RM. 5027:

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-2130
kal@cpuc.ca.gov

~

kkkkkkkkekik SERVICE LIST ** eee KHKKKEK

Victoria S Kolakowski
ORA/CIB

Office of Ratepayer Advocates
RM. 4102

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

(415) 703-2245
vsk@cpuc.ca.gov

For: ROOM 4102, 3-2245

Jonathan Lakritz
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-E

S505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-2117
jol@cpuc.ca.gov

Thomas Lew

Office of Ratepayer Advocates
RM. 4205 ,

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

(415) 703-1784
tho@cpuc.ca.gov

Bill Neill

Private Citizen, Professional Engineer
PO BOX 33666

SAN DIEGO CA 92163-3666

(619) 231-1313

PROEV@MILL.NET

Barbara Ortega

Executive Division

RM. 5109

320 WEST 4TH STREET SUITE 500
LOS ANGELES CA 90013

(213) 576-7070
bho@cpuc.ca.gov

Dale Piiru

Office of Ratepayer Advocates
RM. 4101

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

(415) 703-1726
dgp@cpuc.ca.gov

Thomas R. Pulsifer
Administrative Law Judge Division
RM. 5005

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

(415) 703-2386

trp@cpuc.ca.gov

203 of 682


--- page 204 ---
~

- kkkkkkkkkkkk SERVICE LIST *** kkk kkKK KKK

Jacqueline A. Reed
Administrative Law Judge Division
RM. 5117

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

(415) 703-2935

jar@cpuc.ca.gov

Utilities And Communications Committee
SENATE ENERGY

STATE CAPITOL ROOM 408

SACRAMENTO CA 95814

Eleanor Yung Szeto
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-D

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-2253
eys@cpuc.ca.gov

Leah A. Senitte

9-1-1 Program Mgr.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DIVISION
601 SEQUOIA PACIFIC BLVD
SACRAMENTO CA 95814-0282

Allan G. Tolman

Departmentof General Services
. TELEPHONE & NETWORK SVCS.

601 SEQUOIA PACIFIC BLVD.
SACRAMENTO CA 95814

Jensen Uchida
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-D ©

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-5953
jJmu@cpuc.ca.gov

Lionel B. Wilson

Legal Division

RM. 5136

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-1642
lbw@cpuc.ca.gov

kk kkk eek keke TNFORMATION ONLY * & 8k tk ke ee

Clifford G. Rudolph

President And Chief Exec. Officer
ADVANCED TELCOM GROUP, INC.

885 N. SAN ANTONIO ROAD, SUITE R
LOS ALTOS CA 94022

(650) 559-8900

Richard C. Nelson

Director ~- Regulatory

AIRTOUCH COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

ONE CALIFORNIA STREET, 28TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-5401

(415) 658-2059

Mark J. Angell

ANGELL & ASSOCIATES

1075 ROSEWOOD DRIVE

GRAPEVINE TX 76051

(817) 329-7424

For: Digital Telecommunications Services, LLC

Glenn Stover

Attorney At Law

AT&T COMMUNICATIONS

795 FOLSOM STREET, ROOM 670
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94107
(415) 442-5550
gstover@att.com

William A. Ettinger

Attorney At Law

AT&T COMMUNICATIONS OF CALIFORNIA, INC.
795 FOLSOM STREET, ROOM 625

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94107

(415) 442-2783

ettinger@att.com

For: AT&T Communications of California, Inc.

Kurt Maass

AT&T WIRELESS SERVICES, INC.
5400 CARILLON POINT
KIRKLAND WA 98033

Mary Kruchten

BANK OF AMERICA

PO BOX 37000 DEPT 13411
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94137

M. Manuel Fishman

Attorney At Law

BARTKO ZANKEL TARRANT MILLER
900 FRONT STREET, STE 300
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 956-1900
mfishman@bztm. com

204 of 682


--- page 205 ---
~

kkakkkkekkkkek SERVICE LIST ** xe eKKaKKKK

Charles L. Best
Attorney At Law

1220 S.W. MORRISON ST.,
PORTLAND OR 97205

SUITE 805

Stephen P. Bowen

Attorney At Law

BLUMENFELD & COHEN

4 EMBARCADERO CENTER, SUITE 1170
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 394-7500
steve@technologylaw.com

James E. Pickrell
BRAND X INTERNET

927 6TH STREET

SANTA MONICA CA 90403
(310) 395-5500

Milton J. Morris,
Attorney

BROOKS FIBER COMMUNICATIONS OF SAC.

10316 PLACER LANE

SACRAMENTO CA 95827

(916) 431-5105

For: Brooks Fiber Communications of Sacramento,
Inc.

Esq.

Rachel J. Rothstein
Senior Regulatory Counsel
CABLE & WIRELESS, INC.
8219 LEESBURG PIKE
VIENNA VA 22182

(703) 734-4439

Jeff Kositsky

CAL/NEVA COMMUNITY ACTION
225 30TH ST STE 200
SACRAMENTO CA 95814

‘Traci Nutter

CALIFORNIA PAYPHONE ASSOCIATION
1866 CLAYTON ROAD, SUITE 213
CONCORD CA 94520

Jeffrey Elkins Ceo

CALTECH INTERNATIONAL TELECOM
197 JOAQUIN CIRCLE

DACVILLE CA 94526

Douglas F. Carlson

POST OFFICE BOX 12574
BERKELEY CA 94712-3574
(510) 597-9995 -
dafc@uclink4 .berkeley.edu

Heidi Sieck Williamson

Dept Of Telecommunications & Information
CITY & COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO

875 STEVENSON STREET, 5TH FLOOR

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94103

(415) 554-0811
heidi_sieck-williamson@ci.sf.ca.us

Bremda Riddick
Director .
CLEC IMPLEMENTATION

1250 BAYHILL DRIVE, STE 200
SANBRUNO CA 94066

(650) 794-2689

brenda. riddick@ren.net

Michele Tennant

COLE RAYWID BRAVERMAN

1919 PENNSYLVANIA AVE., NW.,
WASHINGTON DC 20006-3458

SUITE 200

Nancy Biagini

Cwa Staff Representative
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
411 AIRPORT BOULEVARD

BURLINGAME CA 94010

(650) 348-7303

Ken Mceldowney

Executive Director

CONSUMER ACTION

717 MARKET STREET, SUITE 310
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94103

Thomas J. Burke

CONTEL SERVICE CORPORATION
#CAS5S00 GCF

ONE GTE PLACE

THOUSAND OAKS CA 91362-3811

Bernard H. Chao

Esquire

COVAD COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY
2330 CENTRAL EXPRESSWAY
SANTA CLARA CA 95050

(408) 490-4367
bchao@covad.com

Alexander V. Netchvolodoff

Vice President Of Public Policy
COX ENTERPRISES, INC.

1225 19TH STREET NW, STE 450
WASHINGTON DC 20036-2458

205 of 682°


--- page 206 ---
Cherrie Conner
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-D

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-2767
chr@cpuc.ca.gov

Joseph Faber

Attorney

DAVIS WRIGHT TREMAINE LLP

ONE EMBARCADERO CENTER

SUITE 600

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-3834

(415) 276-6500

For: New Telco, d/b/a Sprint Telecommunications
Venture

Juanita Harris ;

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE/TELECOM TASK FORCE
ANTITRUST DIVISION NO.8104

1401 H STREET NW, STE 8000

WASHINGTON DC 20530

(202) 514-5642

For: DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

David Carter

DIALINK CORPORATION

164 E. DANA STREET
MOUNTAIN VIEW CA 94041-1508
(650) 691-9330

T.M. Eagan

Calif. Environmental & Resource Assc.
EAGAN & WARD ;

‘1024 10TH STREET, STE. 300
SACRAMENTO CA 95814-3514

Kevin P. Timpane

FIRST WORLD COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
878 ELIZABETH STREET

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94114

Esther H. Rosenthal
Regulatory Counsel

FIRSTWORLD COMMUNICATIONS

9333 GENESEE AVENUE, SUITE 200
SAN DIEGO CA 92121

(615) 552-8010

Gwen Moore

GEM COMMUNICATIONS
4201 WILSHIRE BLVD.,
LOS ANGELES CA 90010

STE 300

- RKKKKKKEEEKEE SERVICE LIST **¥ eke KKKKKKK

Regina Deangelis

Attorney At Law

GOODIN MACBRIDE SQUERI RITCHIE & DAY LLP
505 SANSOME STREET, SUITE 900

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 392-7900

For: Preferred Long Distance, Inc.

Regina M. Deangelis

Attorney At Law

GOODIN MACBRIDE SQUERI RITCHIE & DAY LLP
505 SANSOME STREET, STE 900

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 392-7900

Michael Gersick

GRATTAN GERSICK KARP MILLER
980 9TH STREET, 16TH FLOOR
SACRAMENTO CA 95814-2719

Gary Yaquinto

Vice President, Government Affairs
GST TELECOM INC.

1201 S. ALMA SCHOOL ROAD, STE 2000
MESA AZ 85210

Ken Snow
Director-Government Affairs
GST TELECOM, INC.

1340 TREAT BLVD., SUITE 100
WALNUT CREEK CA 94596

Margo Friedrich

Regulatory Affairs

GTE CALIFORNIA INCORPORATED
711 VAN NESS AVE., STE 300

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
margo.friedrich@telops.gte.com

Helen Hall

GTE CARD SERVICES INCOPORATED

5221 N. O'CONNOR BLVD., 13TH FLOOR
IRVING TX 75039

Gordon Allen

GTE CARD SERVICES INCORPORATED
1200 WALNUT HILL LANE, STE 2600
IRVING TX 75038

206 of 682



--- page 207 ---
Brenda J. Boykin

LOUIS GURMAN

GURMAN , BLASK & FREEDMAN, CHARTERED
1400 SIXTEENTH STREET, N.W., SUITE 500
WASHINGTON DC 20036

(202) 328-8200

For: Commco Tec Corporation

Leslie S. Spahnn

HEIM NOACK KELLY & SPAHNN
1121 L STREET, SUITE 100
SAXRAMENTO CA 95814

Linda L. Oliver

HOGAN & HARTSON

555 THIRTEENTH STREET, N.W.
WASHINGTON DC 20004-1109
(202) 637-5600

lol@dcl .hhlaw.com

Allan C. Hubbard, Esq.

Regulatory Counsel

POST OFFICE BOX 10804

300 WEST SERVICE ROAD

CHANTILLY VA 20153

(703) 478-5772

For: Access Network Services, Inc.

Jack Burk

President

INTEGRATED TELESERVICES, INC.
7108 N. FRESNO STREET, SUITE 300
FRESNO CA 93720

Richard Cc. Hall

INTEL CORPORATION

1900 PRAIRIE CITY RD, M/S FM4-125
FOLSOM CA 95630-9598

Lance Sentman

International Research Analyst
INTERNATIONAL TELCOM, LTD.

417 SECOND AVENUE WEST

SEATTLE WA 98119

(206) 479-2899

For: INTERNATIONAL TELCOM, LTD.

Edward W. O'Neill

Attorney At Law

JEFFER MANGELS BUTLER & MARMARO LLP
ONE SANSOME STREET, 12TH FLOOR

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94104

(415) 392-8080

ewo@jmbm.com

~

. kkkkkkkkkkkk SERVICE LIST ***k ee kK KK KEKE

Jonathan E. Canis
Attorney
KELLEY DRYE & WARREN

1200

19TH STREET, N.W., SUITE 500

WASHINGTON DC 20036

(202)
For:

Ross
BRAD

955-9600
Intermedia Communications, Inc.

A. Buntrock
E. MUTSCHELKNAUS

KELLEY DRYE & WARREN LLP

1200

19TH STREET, FIFTH FLOOR

WASHINGTON DC 20036

(202)
For:

955-9600
ACSI Local Switched Services, Inc. dba

e.spire

David Klein

KLEIN ZELMAN ROTHERMEL & DICHTER, LLP
485 MADISON AVENUE

NEW YORK NY 10022

(212)
For:

935-6020

Eagle Communications of California , LLC

Scott M. Johnson

Attorney At Law

LAW OFFICE OF SCOTT M. JOHNSON
21312 FOREST MEADOW

EL TORO CA 92630-5813

(949)
For:

855-6358
Brand X Internet

David A. Jones
LEAGUE OF CALIFORNIA CITIES

1400

K STREET

SACRAMENTO CA 95814

Thomas Mcdonald

Attorney

LEBOEUF LAMB GREENE & MACRAE
ONE EMBARCADERO CENTER

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415)
For:

951-1100
MCI Metro Access Transmission Services,

Jacqueline R. Kinney

Attorney At Law

LEGAL AND LEGISLATIVE SERVICES

2788

LAND PARK DRIVE

SACRAMENTO CA 95818

207 of 682

I


--- page 208 ---
« kkkkkkkekkeek SERVICE LIST ** xe eee KKKKKK

Terrence J. Ferguson

Senior Vice President & General Counsel
LEVEL 3 COMMUNICATIONS, LLC

3555 FARNAM STREET

OMAHA NE 68131

(402) 536-3624

General Counsel

LOS ANGELES CELLULAR TELEPHONE CO.
17785 CENTER COURT DRIVE

NORTH CERRITOS CA 90703-8575

Mark Brown

Senior Attorney |

MCI TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORP.
201 SPEAR STREET, 9TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105

(415) 978-1292

For: MCI Metro Access Transmission Services, Inc.

Denise V. Thomas

MCI WORLDCOM

2678 BISHOP DRIVE, STE 200
SAN RAMON CA 94583

Nikayla Nail

Attorney At Law

MCI WORLDCOM

201 SPEAR STREET, 9TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105
(415) 228-1150
n.nail@mci.com

Mark E Brown

JOHN A. GUTTIEREZ

MEDIAONE TELECOMMUNICATIONS OF CALIF, INC
1999 HARRISON STREET, STE 660

OAKLAND CA 94612-3517

Lonn L. Beedy

METRO ONE COMMUNICATIONS
8405 S W NIMBUS AVENUE
BEAVERTON OR 97008

Francis F. Chin

General Counsel

METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
JOSEPH P. BORT METRO CENTER

101 EIGHTH STREET

OAKLAND CA 94607-4700

(510) 464-7710

Kent Heyman, Esq.

Vice President & General Counsel
MGC COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

3165 PALMS CENTRE DRIVE

LAS VEGAS NV 89103

(702) 310-1000

Marilyn H. Ash
Associate Legal Counsel
MGC COMMUNICATIONS , INC.
3301 N. BUFFALO DRIVE
LAS VEGAS NV 89129

(702) 310-8461
mash@mgccom. com

Rocky N. Unruh

Judith A. Holiber

MORGENSTEIN & JUBELIRER LLP
ONE MARKET PLAZA

SPEAR STREET TOWER, 32ND FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105

(415) 896-0666

Lorrie Bernstein

MOSS ADAMS

1899 WEST MARCH LANE, SUITE F
STOCKTON CA 95207-6422

(209) 957-5851
Gregory M. Duncan, Ph.D.

Vice President

NATIONAL ECONOMIC RESEARCH ASSOC.
777 SOUTH FIGUEROA STREET, STE.
LOS ANGELES CA 90017

INC.
4200

Jane Emerson

Manager Of Research

NEW PARADIGM RESOURCES GROUP,
12 S. MICHIGAN AVE., 5TH FLOOR
CHICAGO IL 60603

INC

Karen M. Potkul

Attorney At Law

NEXTLINK CALIFORNIA, INC.
1924 E. DEERE AVENUE, STE 110
SANTA ANA CA 92705

(949) 417-7766
kpotkul@nextlink.net

Steven Gorosh, Esq.

_ Vice President & General Counsel

NORTHPOINT COMMUNICATIONS

222 SUTTER STREET, 7TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94108

For: NORTHPOINT COMMUNICATIONS

208 of 682


--- page 209 ---
KaKKKKKKkRKRKEK SERVICE LIST KkKkKKRKKKKKKRKK

Jose E. Guzman, Jr. D.M. Carroll

Attorney At Law PAGING SYSTEMS, INC
NOSSAMAN GUTHNER KNOX & ELLIOTT LLP ; PO BOX 4249

50 CALIFORNIA STREET, 34TH FLOOR BURLINGAME CA 94011-4249
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-4799

(415) 398-3600 Peter A. Casciato
jeg@ngke.com Attorney At Law

For: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION PETER A. CASCIATO, A PROF. CORP.
8 CALIFORNIA STREET, SUITE 701
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-4825

Audrey P. Rasmussen (415) 291-8661
O'CONNOR & HANNAN, L.L.P. casciato@dnai.com
SUITE 800 .
2919 PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE, N.W. Peter A. Casciato
wASHINGTON DC 20006-1400 : Attorney At Law
202) 887-1400 PETER A. CASCIATO, A PROF. CORP.
8 CALIFORNIA STREET, SUITE 701
Fate Riley SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-4825
:FFICE OF ASSEMPLYMAN WALLY KNOX (415) 291-8661
“TATE CAPITOL casciato@dnai.com
r ‘DM 6025 ; For: Time Warner Telecom of California, L.P.

. STRAMENTO CA 95814
~:6) 316-2042

».°e@.riley@asm.ca.gov Bonnie Y. Cheng
Director Of Operations
f:ed W. Daniel PHOENIX INTEGRATION CORPORATION
"?ION TELECOM. 7773 EAST GARVEY AVENUE., SUITE 832
i BOX 9227 ROSEMEAD CA 91770
.©WPORT BEACH CA 92658-9227 (909) 868-0808
Carl K. Oshiro Jeff Hendrix
Counselor At Law PROTEL, INC.
200 FIRST STREET, SUITE 2540 4150 KIDRON ROAD
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105 LAKELAND FL 33811
(415) 927-0158 ‘
oshirock@pacbell.net Deborah Kong
SAN JOSE MERCURY NEWS
James B. Young . 750 RIDDER PARK DRIVE
COLLEN M. O'GRADY SAN JOSE CA 95190
PACIFIC BELL (408) 920-5922
140 NEW MONTGOMERY ST. RM 1619
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105 Stephen Buel
(415) 545-0422 SAN JOSE MERCURY NEWS
750 RIDDER PARK DRIVE
Robert Mazique SAN JOSE CA 95126
Attorney
PACIFIC BELL — Keith W. Melville
140 NEW MONTGOMERY STREET Attorney At Law
15TH FLOOR SEMPRA ENERGY
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105 101 ASH STREET
(415) 542-7712 SAN DIEGO CA 92101-3017

For: Pacific Bell , (619) 699-5039
kmelville@sempra.com

209 of 682


--- page 210 ---
kkkkkkkkekkkek SERVICE LIST KakkKkKKKKKK KKK

David M. Norris

Attorney At Law
‘SIERRA PACIFIC POWER COMPANY
6100 NEIL ROAD, PO BOX 10100
RENO NV 89520-0024

(775) 834-4208
dnorris@sppc.com

Linda Burton

SIERRA TELEPHONE

PO BOX 219

OAKHURST CA 93644-0219

Carol B. Henningson

Attorney At Law

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY
2244 WALNUT GROVE AVE.,

ROSEMEAD CA 91770

(626) 302-1911

Jeffrey M. Pfaff

Attorney At Law

SPRINT PCS ~ LEGAL/REGULATORY
4900 MAIN STREET, 11TH FLOOR
KANSAS CITY MO 64112

(816) 559-1912

Thomas K. Braun

STEPTOE & JOHNSON, LLP
2244 WALNUT GROVE AVENUE
ROSEMEAD CA 91770

(818) 302-4413
brauntk@sce.com

Charles H.N. Kallenbach
Attorney

SWIDLER & BERLIN, CHARTERED
3000 K STREET, NW., SUITE 300
WASHINGTON DC 20007

(202) 424-7715

For: L.D. Services, Inc.

James Falvey

Attorney

SWIDLER & BERLIN, CHARTERED
3000 K STREET, NW., SUITE 300
WASHINGTON DC 20007

(202) 424-7706

For: GST Lightwave (CA), Inc.

Richard M. Rindler

Attorney .

SWIDLER & BERLIN, CHARTERED
3000 K STREET, NW., SUITE 300
WASHINGTON DC 20007

(202) 424-7500
For: WorldCom Technologies, Inc.

Lawrence A. Walke

Attorney At Law

SWIDLER BERLIN SHEREFF FRIEDMAN LLC
3000 K STREET, NW, SUITE 300
WASHINGTON DC 20007

(202) 424-7500

For: DSLnet COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

Phyllis Whitten

SWIDLER BERLIN SHEREFF FRIEDMAN, LLC
3000 K STREET, N.W., SUITE 300
WASHINGTON DC 20007-5116

(202) 424-7500

Andrew D. Lipman

KATHLEEN L. GREENMAN

SWIDLER BERLIN SHEREFF FRIEDMAN, LLP
3000 K ST., N.W., SUITE 300
WASHINGTON DC 20007

(202) 945-6922

Carol Critchlow-Bentley

SWIDLER BERLIN SHEREFF FRIEDMAN, LLP
3000 K STREET, N.W., STE. 300
WASHINGTON DC 20007

(202) 424-7793

Louise Beale

Consultant
TECHNOLOGIES MANAGEMENT, INC.
PO DRAWER 200
WINTER PARK FL 32790-0200
(407) 740-8575

Julie Richey

Marketing Director

TEL COM PLUS

5251 110TH AVE. NORTH, STE 118
CLEARWATER FL 33760

(813) 572-7832

Mark O'Krent

TELEPHONE CONNECTION OF LOS ANGELES
9911 WEST PICO BLVD., STE. 680

LOS ANGELES CA 90035-2710

210 of 682


--- page 211 ---
Mike Freedman

Regional Business Manager
TELIGENT, INC. ,

111 BROADWAY,:- SUITE 1300

OAKLAND CA 94607-5500

Terri Natoli

CAROLYN SHUP, ESQ.

Esquire

TELIGENT, INC.

8065 LEESBURG PIKE, STE 400
VIENNA VA 22180

Edwin D. Jones

TESCO

355 STARLING ROAD
MILL VALLEY CA 94941
(415) 383-1825

Patricia J Osorio

THE GREENLINING INSTITUTE
785 MARKET ST 3RD FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94103-2003

Kenneth F. Melley, Jr. .
Vice President Of Regulatory Affairs
U.S. LONG DISTANCE, INC.

9311 SAN PEDRO, SUITE 300

SAN ANTONIO TX 78216

(210) 525-9009

Steve Page

US DATA HIGHWAY CORP.
1113 HOPKINS WAY
PLEASANTON CA 94566
(925) 454-8624

Michael Shames

Attorney At Law

UTILITY CONSUMERS' ACTION NETWORK
1717 KETTNER BLVD., SUITE 101

SAN DIEGO CA 92101-2532

(619) 696-6966

mshames@ucan.org

Glen Carolo

VALLEY COMMUNICATIONS INCORPORATED
47221 FREMONT BOULEVARD

FREMONT CA 94538

(510) 659-9955 X314
gcarolo@valleycom.com

Bruce J. Weston
Attorney At Law

169 WEST HUBBARD AVENUE
COLUMBUS OH 43215-1439

~

kkkk kK KEKE SERVICE LIST *# te RR Re

Kathleen Villacorta

Attorney

WIGGINS & VILLACORTA, P.A.

POST OFFICE BOX 1657

S501 EAST TENNESSEE STREET, SUITE B
TALLAHASSEE FL 32302

(904) 222-1534

For: Business Discount Plan, Inc. d/b/a L.D.
Discount Plan

David Wilner
PO BOX 2340
NAVATO CA 94948-2340

‘Maia Ettinger

Legal Director

WORKING ASSETS FUNDING SERVICE, INC.
101 MARKET STREET, NO. 700

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105

(415) 369-2084

Walter Mcgee

WORKING ASSETS FUNDING SERVICE
701 MONTGOMERY ST., SUITE 400
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

Rachelle B. Chong

WENDY CHOW/COUDERT BORTHERS

XL NETWORKS, INC.

4 EMBARCADERO CENTER, SUITE 3300
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 986-1300

For: XL NETWORKS, INC.

Rachelle B. Chong

XL NETWORKS, INC.

4 EMBARCADERO CENTER, SUITE 3300
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 986-1300

David A. Simpson

Attorney At Law

YOUNG VOGL HARLICK WILSON & SIMPSON LLP

425 CALIFORNIA ST., STE 2500

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94104

(415) 291-1970 :

das@bizlaw.net

For: Bakersfield Cellular Telephone Company

211 of 682



--- page 212 ---
pw)

NETWORK PLUS, INC.
234 COPELAND STREET
QUINCT CA 02169

(1)
EAGLE COMMUNICATIONS OF CALIFORNIA, LLC

60 EAST 56TH STREET
NEW YORK NY 10022

(I)
CAMPUSLINK COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS, INC.

1530 EISENHOWER PLACE
ANN ARBOR MI 48108

(1)
SEREN INNOVATIONS, INC.

15 SOUTH 5TH STREET, SUITE 500
MINNEAPOLIS MN 55402

“(1)

700 WILSHIRE BLVD, 7TH FLOOR
LOS ANGELES CA 90017

(I)

XL NETWORKS, INC.
909 VIA MIROLA
PALOS VERDES ESTATES CA 90274

(1)

HTC COMMUNICATIONS, LLC
2131 N LAMER STREET
BURBANK CA 91504

(1)

TRIAD COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
2420 SAND HILL ROAD
MENLO PARK CA 94025

(IT)

US DATA HIGHWAY CORP.
1113 HOPKINS WAY
PLEASANTON CA 94566

212 of 682



--- page 213 ---
Page 1 of 1
Attachment 05 - Property Owner's Authorization
Please reference “MASTER LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR WIRELESS FACILITIES ON CITY POLES IN THE
RIGHT-OF-WAY” dated 3/1/2022 between the City of San Mateo and Crown Castle Fiber LLC.
213 of 682

--- page 214 ---
214 of 682

--- page 215 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO >
ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION FORM INSTRUCTIONS

The information provided by the applicant on this form will enable City staff to
understand the proposed project and to prepare any necessary environmental
documents. Careful completion of this form will enable staff to more
efficiently and quickly process your application. -

Answers to the 34 numbered questions should be entered in the space provided.
At the end of each question, circle YES or NO. If you circle YES, please
complete all subsections of that question. If you circle NO proceed to the next
numbered question. All questions must be answered to complete your
application. Extra sheets may be attached if longer responses are necessary.

Please contact Planning Staff at (650) 522-7212 if you! have any. questions in
completing this form.

EXISTING SITE & DEVELOPMENT
1. Site area (sq. ft. or acres): Back of curb- 2x2 sqft
2. Zoning: . CBD/R

3. Is there existing development on site? _ YES

-a. Existing building floor area (gross sq; ft.):

b. Existing building coverage:

c... Number of existing off-street parking spaces:
d. Number of existing bicycle parking spaces:
e. Number of existing structures on the site:

f. Existing use (# of units of residential, or type of use and sq. ft. of use if commercial):

4. Are structures or portions thereof, to be removed? . YES

a. Square footage to be removed: |

5. Is the property encumbered by any easements? YES
!ACDD\PLANNING\FORMS\ENVLNG2.DOC 12/01/98

215 of 682


--- page 216 ---
a. Please attach title report and map showing all easements.

6. Describe, in general, the existing uses to the:
North of the site: _Retail__
_ South of the site: _ Street_ |
East of the site: __Church/Retail
West of the site: __ Street_ |

PROJECT DESCRIPTION — :
7. Is the project a residential development? = 7 | yes (no) |

“a. Unit description: :

‘| Type of Unit | Number of Units

”
-
Cc
2. |
Oo |

1 Bedroom

[aBedoom |
‘fapedroom |

b. Total floor area (gross sq. ft.):

c. Total lot coverage (sq. ft.) if site is zoned R4-D, R5-D or R6-D:

d. Number of off-street parking spaces provided:

es

Total

e. Number of bicycle parking facilities (9' x 18' areas) provided:
f. Is the proposed project RENTAL or OWNERSHIP? (circle one)
g. Approximate range of sales prices or rental rates:

h. Number of stories:

i. Building height in feet:

j. Building setbacks: Front Left Side Right Side Rear
-2- |

216 of 682


--- page 217 ---
Crown Castle small wireless 
 on an existing
in PROW
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
217 of 682

--- page 218 ---
No changes in patterns, scales, or character. 
No changes in any scenic views.
Wireless Communication Facilities Permit
required for all wireless facilities installed in San Mateo. 
218 of 682

--- page 219 ---
f. Land area to be disturbed (sq. ft.):
g. Proposed erosion control measures:

h. Proposed measures to prevent failure of slopes:

17, Does the site contain a known landslide area, soil creep, expansive soils or othpememidence
of geologic failure? a, YES.

a, Describe nature and location(s):

18. Does the site contain an unusual geologic landform, such as a ridge line or rock ¢ p?
ves [no ]

a. Describe feature:
b. Describe any proposed modification:

WATER/HYDROLOGY
19. Does the site contain or abut a natural drainage channel or streambed? YES [ NO) (No)

a. Describe location(s):

20. Describe any proposed alterations to such channel(s) or stream bed(s): -

21.Does the site abut the Bay, Marina Lagoon, or a slough? ; YES

a. Describe any proposed alterations to such water feature or shoreline.

22.Describe the expected amount of water use (except for residential development of fewer
than 4 units):

Domestic: N/A _galday Peak Use: N/A gal/day
Commercial: N/A gal/day Peak Use: N/A: gal/day
-5-

219 of 682


--- page 220 ---
N/A

Expected fire flow demand: gal/min.
Daily sewer discharge (over 30 fixtures only): N/A gal/day

VEGETATION

23.Will the project remove any trees that are 6° or greater in diameter at a poiptedeabove
grade, or a substantial amount of natural plant cover? YES.

a. List the number, types and sizes of all trees existing on the site, and ail of these to be

removed. (Attach another sheet if more space is needed.)

b. Describe the existing natural brush and groundcover features of the site and any

proposed reduction.

EXTERNAL IMPACTS

24.Will the proposed project generate dust, smoke, fumes or odors, excluding fre during
construction? oe Co YES

a. Describe emission(s), extent and duration:

25.Will the project involve the use, storage or disposal of potentially toxic or hazardous

materials, including solvents, acids, pesticides, herbicides, or radioactive substaye
YES

a. Detail type(s), quantities, storage and disposal procedures:

26.is the project. expected to generate noise .in sufficient levels to be heard beyond the
boundaries of the site? YES (no)

a. Describe noise generating activities:

b, Daily time duration:

UTILITIES/PUBLIC WORKS ;
27.Will the proposed project require extension or alteration of existing electrical traremission
and distribution facilities? YES (no)

a.. Give details of extension:

220 of 682


--- page 221 ---
b. Describe location of new electric transformer, if required: : -

28. Are any off-site improvements proposed (such as sewer or storm drain extensiog
YESLNO)

a. Please describe nature and location:

29, Will the proposed project incorporate any measures to conserve electricity, or water
| | | YES

a. Please describe:

30.Are new curb cuts proposed or existing curb cuts eliminated? . YES
a. Describe number and location(s):

31.Are new streets, or driveways in excess of 300 feet in length, to be developed within the

proposed project? YES

a. Indicate whether private or public:
b. List lengths and widths:
c. Maximum grade (%):

32. Will proposed structures be protected by fire sprinklers? YES

DISPLACEMENT
33. Will existing businesses or residents be displaced by the proposed development?

VES

a. Describe type(s) of business(es) or numbers of residents to be displaced:

221 of 682


--- page 222 ---
Pole
Pole
2 '
10'
Jason Camarena
Jason Camarena
1 Park Pl, Suite 300
CA
Dublin
8"
8"
.44'
4"
6"
.17
(925) 201-5806
94568
222 of 682

--- page 223 ---
RF Compliance Report 
 
223 of 682

--- page 224 ---
RF EMISSIONS COMPLIANCE REPORT
Prepared for:
Crown Castle
1 Park Place
Dublin, CA 94568
Site:
CA_SF_SANMATEO_209
San Mateo, CA 94401
37.565433, -122.327967
This site will be in compliance with
FCC Regulations and MPE Limits:
Crown Castle Is 0.573% of General Population (GP) Limit
(0.115% of Occupational (Occ) Limit)
Certification
I have reviewed this RF Emissions
assessment report and believe it to be both
true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge.
Analysis completed using Waterford's NIERTool© software
Only clients and client representatives are authorized to provide input data through the Waterford web
portal. In securing that authorization, clients and client representatives warrant the accuracy of all input
data.  Waterford Consultants, LLC attests to the accuracy of the engineering calculations. Waterford also
attests that the results of those engineering calculations are correctly summarized in this report. 
©Copyright 2005-2023 Waterford Consultants, LLC. 
All rights reserved
7430 New Technology Way, Suite 150  
Frederick, Maryland 21703               (703) 596-1022 Phone
  www.waterfordconsultants.com
Control # 97577
224 of 682

--- page 225 ---
RF EMISSIONS COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
Site:
CA_SF_SANMATEO_209
San Mateo, CA 94401
Compliance Statement
Subject site COMPLIES with Radiofrequency Radiation Exposure Limits of 47 C.F.R. §§ 1.1307(b)(3) and
1.1310.
Ground Level Site Summary
Predicted cumulative RF power density at  ground  level  as  a  percentage  of  the  FCC General Population
limits.  This result is the sum of the maximum ground level MPE for each RF emitter by band of operation.
Sites below 100% are in full compliance.
Source
Predicted Power Density, % of Limit (GP)
Verizon 28000 MHz
0.573 %
Sum of Listed Sources
0.573%
Antenna Level Site Summary
Predicted cumulative RF power  density  at  elevated  levels near the antenna(s)  has  been  evaluated  with
respect to  the FCC General Population limits. The mitigation measures recommended herein are necessary to
achieve and  maintain compliance at the site based on the following assessment:
Page 1 of 13 - Control # 97577
225 of 682

--- page 226 ---
Antenna Level Assessment
Signage directives for this report are specified in the Elevation Detail Plot which depicts predicted RF power density
near the antenna as a percentage of the FCC General Population limits. Areas exceeding 100% of the General
Population limits are depicted as blue. Any work required within areas exceeding 100% of the limits should be
coordinated with wireless operators or performed by personnel trained in RF safety and equipped with personal
protection equipment. Workers in areas depicted as  green or clear will not be exposed to hazardous levels of RF
energy and no action is required to maintain  a safe working environment.
As shown in the Elevation Detail Plot, the following keep-back distances to the FCC limits have been determined:
Reference Level
Maximum Level:
General Population (%)
Maximum Level:
Occupational (%)
Ground Level
0.573
0.115
Antenna Level
362.487
72.497
Distance to FCC 100% MPE Limits at Antenna Level
- Vertical Stand Off Distance (General Population) 4 feet
- Vertical Stand Off Distance (Occupational) N/A
- Horizontal Stand Off Distance (General Population) 5 feet
- Horizontal Stand Off Distance (Occupational) N/A
Distance to FCC 100% MPE Limits at Ground Level
- Horizontal Stand Off Distance (General Population) N/A
- Horizontal Stand Off Distance (Occupational) N/A
.
Page 2 of 13 - Control # 97577
226 of 682

--- page 227 ---
RF Alerting Signage
The "Notice" sign must be posted near the bottom of the pole or on the shroud any time there is a zone near the
antenna that exceeds the General Population limit. This sign should be mounted where it is easily visible to workers
on the ground as they approach the pole. Suggested locations include on the pole about 8-10’ from the ground or on
the front of the equipment shroud if it is mounted on the pole.
The "Caution" sign must be posted on the antenna any time there is an area that exceeds the FCC General Public
exposure limit. The keep-back distance for the General Population limit must be filled in on the sign as depicted
below. This sign must be mounted on or just below the radiating antenna so that it is maximally visible to workers
approaching the antenna in a lift or bucket truck. If there is more than one radiating antenna and they are less than 5’
apart then the sign should be mounted on or near the lower antenna. If there are multiple radiating antennas and they
are >5’ apart then separate signs should be mounted on or near each antenna.
.
Page 3 of 13 - Control # 97577
227 of 682

--- page 228 ---
Technical Framework: Basis for Compliance Statement
The compliance framework is derived from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Rules and
Regulations for preventing human exposure in excess of the applicable Maximum Permissible Exposure
(“MPE”) limits listed in Table 1 of 47 C.F.R. § 1.1310. Calculations using input data provided to Waterford
by client or client's representative numerically confirm the subject site can operate at a 100% duty cycle
without exceeding the FCC MPE limits in areas of uncontrolled access.
At this site, the radio frequency (RF) power density resulting from each transmitter at any location may be
expressed as a percentage of the frequency-specific limits and added to determine if 100% of the exposure
limit has been exceeded. The FCC Rules define two tiers of permissible exposure differentiated by the
situation in which the exposure takes place and/or the status of the individuals who are subject to exposure.
General Population / Uncontrolled exposure limits apply to  those situations in which persons may not be
aware of the presence of electromagnetic energy, where exposure is not employment related, or where persons
cannot exercise control over their exposure. Occupational / Controlled exposure limits apply to situations in
which persons are exposed as a consequence of their employment, have been made fully  aware of the
potential for  exposure,  and  can  exercise  control  over  their  exposure.  Based  on  the  criteria  for  these
classifications, continuous exposure to RF power density levels below the FCC General Population limits is
not hazardous. The FCC General Population limits are 5 times more restrictive than the Occupational limits.
Frequency
(MHz)
Power Density
(mW/cm2)
Averaging Time
(minutes)
Power Density
(mW/cm2)
Averaging Time
(minutes)
30-300
0.2
30
1
6
300-1500
f/1500
30
f/300
6
1500-100,000
1.0
30
5.0
6
In situations where the predicted MPE exceeds the General Population threshold in an accessible area because
of emissions from multiple transmitters, FCC licensees that contribute greater than 5% of the aggregate MPE
share responsibility for mitigation.
For any location where radiofrequency (RF) power densities exceed 100% MPE of the General Population
limits, access controls with appropriate RF alerting signage must be available to be visible upon approach
from any direction to provide notification of potential conditions within these areas. Subject to other site
security requirements, occupational personnel should be trained in RF safety and equipped with personal
protective equipment (e.g. RF personal monitor) designed for safe work in the vicinity of RF emitters. 
Waterford Consultants, LLC recommends that any work activity in these designated areas or in front of any
transmitting antennas be coordinated with the wireless operators.
Page 4 of 13 - Control # 97577
228 of 682

--- page 229 ---
Predictive Modeling
Based on the computational guidelines  set  forth in  FCC  Office of Engineering and  Technology,  Bulletin 65
("OET65"), Waterford Consultants, LLC has developed software to predict the overall MPE possible at any
particular location given the spatial orientation and operating  parameters  of  multiple  RF  sources. These
theoretical results represent worst-case predictions as emitters are assumed to be operating at 100% duty
cycle.
The tabular analysis in this report calculates the spatial peak power density produced at ground level from
each RF emitter. The far field power density in milliWatts per square centimeter is expressed as Sff = 33.4 x
ERP / R2 where ERP is the Effective Radiated Power along a specific azimuth in Watts and R is the distance
from the antenna radiation center in meters. The antenna manufacturer’s horizontal and vertical radiation
patterns have been considered in determining the ERP in any direction. This computation is based on the
maximum ERP and includes a 1.6-fold increase in field strength due to ground reflection. The result provides a
conservative estimate of spatially averaged power density at ground level and may be higher than predicted
MPE in the graphical plots described below.
As the limits are frequency dependent, the contribution of any RF source at a specific location may be
expressed as a percentage of the FCC General Population MPE limits at the associated operating frequency.
The percentage contributions from all RF sources are added to determine the overall exposure level. If this
result is less than 100%, the predicted cumulative exposure level is below the General Population limits set
forth in the FCC Rules. The cumulative MPE depicted on the summary page is the summation of maximum
MPE values for each emitter regardless of antenna orientation.
A graphical plot of calculated spatially averaged RF power density, based on the Cylindrical Model as
described in OET65, predicts spatially averaged MPE conditions at areas in near proximity to the antenna. In
the vertical display, predicted MPE is depicted at the center of the 6 ft vertical zone that a person could
occupy.
Page 5 of 13 - Control # 97577
229 of 682

--- page 230 ---
Qualifications of Waterford
With more than 100 team-years of experience, Waterford Consultants, LLC [Waterford] provides technical
consulting services to clients in the radio communications and antenna locating industry. Waterford retains
professional engineers who are placed in responsible charge of the processes for analysis.
Waterford is familiar with 47 C.F.R. § § 1.1307(b)(3) and 1.1310 along with the general Rules, Regulations and
policies of the FCC. Waterford work  processes incorporate all  specifications of FCC Office of Engineering
and Technology, Bulletin 65 ("OET65"), from the website: www.fcc.gov/oet/rfsafety  and follow criteria
detailed in 47 CFR § 1.1310 "Radiofrequency radiation exposure Limits".
Within the technical and regulatory  framework detailed  above, Waterford developed tools  according to
recognized and generally accepted good engineering practices. Permissible exposure limits are band specific,
and the Waterford computerized modeling tools correctly calculate permissible exposure based on the band(s)
specified in the input data. Only clients and client representatives are authorized to provide input  data
through the Waterford web portal. In securing that authorization, clients and client representatives attest to
the accuracy of all input data.
Waterford Consultants, LLC attests to the accuracy  of the engineering calculations computed by  those
modeling tools. Furthermore, Waterford attests that the results of those engineering calculations are correctly
summarized in this report.
Page 6 of 13 - Control # 97577
230 of 682

--- page 231 ---
Antenna Inventory
#
Operator
Make
Model
Freq
(MHz)
Az
(deg)
Tilt
(deg)
HorBW
(deg)
Ant
(ft)
TPO
(w)
Paths
Loss
(db)
Ant
Gain
Radiated
Power (W)
RC
AGL
(ft)
1 Verizon
ERICSSON
SON_SM6705 CM1 02.07.22 28GHz VZW
28000
30
0
4
1.312
0.294401
4
0
26.14dBd 794.330 EIRP
28.833
2 Verizon
ERICSSON
SON_SM6705 CM1 02.07.22 28GHz VZW
28000
150
0
4
1.312
0.294401
4
0
26.14dBd 794.330 EIRP
28.833
3 Verizon
ERICSSON
SON_SM6705 CM1 02.07.22 28GHz VZW
28000
270
0
4
1.312
0.294401
4
0
26.14dBd 794.330 EIRP
28.833
Page 7 of 13 - Control # 97577
231 of 682

--- page 232 ---
ELEVATION DETAIL
Predicted MPE depicted at the center of the 6 ft vertical zone that a person could occupy
Page 8 of 13 - Control # 97577
232 of 682

--- page 233 ---
TOP DOWN  DETAIL
Page 9 of 13 - Control # 97577
233 of 682

--- page 234 ---
TOP DOWN  DETAIL
Page 10 of 13 - Control # 97577
234 of 682

--- page 235 ---
GROUND LEVEL MPE BY RF EMITTER
The maximum ground level MPE along the azimuth of orientation for each RF emitter by band  of  operation  
is   listed   below.   The   computational   approach   is   described   in  the   Predictive   Modeling   section.  
The  maximum  MPE  by  operator  and  band  is  contributive  to  the  cumulative  ground  level  MPE
summary table presented above.
Verizon
CA_SF_SANMATEO_209
ERICSSON - SON_SM6705 CM1 02.07.22 28GHz VZW 30° Sector
Maximum Exposure Limit - 28000 MHz
Limit (GP):
1000.000 µW/cm^2
EiRP
Height
Downtilt
(Watts)
794.330
(feet)
28.833
(Degrees)
0
Maximum power density at ground level:
5.730 µW/cm^2
Highest percentage of Maximum Exposure Limit:
0.573 %
Page 11 of 13 - Control # 97577
235 of 682

--- page 236 ---
Verizon
CA_SF_SANMATEO_209
ERICSSON - SON_SM6705 CM1 02.07.22 28GHz VZW 150° Sector
Maximum Exposure Limit - 28000 MHz
Limit (GP):
1000.000 µW/cm^2
EiRP
Height
Downtilt
(Watts)
794.330
(feet)
28.833
(Degrees)
0
Maximum power density at ground level:
5.730 µW/cm^2
Highest percentage of Maximum Exposure Limit:
0.573 %
Page 12 of 13 - Control # 97577
236 of 682

--- page 237 ---
Verizon
CA_SF_SANMATEO_209
ERICSSON - SON_SM6705 CM1 02.07.22 28GHz VZW 270° Sector
Maximum Exposure Limit - 28000 MHz
Limit (GP):
1000.000 µW/cm^2
EiRP
Height
Downtilt
(Watts)
794.330
(feet)
28.833
(Degrees)
0
Maximum power density at ground level:
5.730 µW/cm^2
Highest percentage of Maximum Exposure Limit:
0.573 %
Page 13 of 13 - Control # 97577
237 of 682

--- page 238 ---
Noise Compliance Report 
238 of 682

--- page 239 ---
engineers, 
inc.
 
CONSULTING 
 
DESIGN 
 
FIELD 
ENGINEERING
SERVICES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
447 Sutter St, Ste. 516
San Francisco, CA 94108
415.660.5940 (TEL) 
www.acgeng.com 
April 26, 2022 
To whom it may concern, 
I, Antonio C. Jakosalem (CA P.E. LIC. E15401) have reviewed the noise 
emission analysis of the Ericsson 6705 3-radio configuration cluster nodes 
in the City of San Mateo, by Jeffrey K. Pack dated April 6, 2022.  I found 
it to be technically accurate and in compliance with the standards 
contained in Chapter 7.30 of the City of San Mateo Municipal Code, 
Ref. (a).  I herewith certify that report to be correct, with my stamp and 
seal. 
 
Please process Mr. Pack
ort for permit review as if it was written by 
a P.E. Please call or email for questions.  
Very truly yours, 
 
Antonio C. Jakosalem, P.E 
tony@acgeng.com 
 
 
Principal 
239 of 682

--- page 240 ---
ACOUSTICAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA 
NATIONAL COUNCIL OF ACOUSTICAL CONSULTANTS 
April 6, 2022
Crown Castle 
1 Park Place 
Dublin, CA  94568 
Subject: 
Noise Emission Analysis, Ericsson 6705 3 Radio Configuration
Cluster Node Sites,
San Mateo
This report presents the results of a noise emission analysis of the Ericsson 6705 
radio configuration cluster nodes in the City of San Mateo. The purpose of this
analysis was to determine the minimum distances necessary from any cluster node 
installation to the nearest most noise sensitive property that will result in 
compliance with the standards contained in Chapter 7.30 of the City of San Mateo 
Municipal Code, Ref. (a).
Summary
The results of this analysis reveal that the minimum distance from the face of the nearest 
radio unit on a tilt bracket cluster system to a residential receiver location needs to be 21 
inches.  This is equivalent to 37 inches from the center of the pole.
Noise Standards - City of San Mateo Municipal Code 
The 
noise 
standards 
of 
Chapter 
7.30 
of 
the 
City 
of 
San 
Mateo 
Municipal Code limits 
noise 
from 
stationary 
noise 
sources 
at 
noise 
sensitive 
receiver locations, such as residential land use. 
The applicable Code 
section is shown on the following page. The most stringent standard is the 50 
dBA limit applied to nighttime noise generation in Noise Zone 1 and is used 
herein as the basis for this analysis. 
________________________________________________________________________
Ref. (a) City of San Mateo Municipal Code, Chapter 7.30
Noise Regulations, Subsection 7.3.040
Maximum Permissible Sound Levels, Ordinance 2004-16
Acoustical Consultants
240 of 682

--- page 241 ---
- 2 -
7.30.030 DESIGNATED NOISE ZONES. 
The properties hereinafter described are hereby assigned the following noise zones: 
Noise Zone 1. All property in any single family residential zone (including adjacent parks 
and open space) as designated on the City's zoning map prepared pursuant to the 
provisions of Title 27, or any revisions thereto. 
Noise Zone 2. All property in any commercial/mixed residential, multi-family residential, 
specific plan district or PUD as designated on the City's zoning map prepared pursuant to 
the provisions of Title 27, or any revisions thereto. 
Noise Zone 3. All property in any commercial or central business district as designated 
on the City's zoning map prepared pursuant to the provisions of Title 27, or any revisions 
thereto. 
Noise Zone 4. All property in any manufacturing or industrial zone as designated on the 
City's zoning map prepared pursuant to the provisions of Title 27, or any revisions 
thereto. 
(Ord. No. 2004-16 § 1.) 
7.30.040 MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE SOUND LEVELS. 
(a) It is unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated any source of sound at
any location within the City or allow the creation of any noise on property owned, leased,
occupied or otherwise controlled by such person, which causes the noise level when
measured on any other property to exceed:
(1) The noise level standard for that property as specified in Table 7.30.040 for a
cumulative period of more than 30 minutes in any hour;
(2) The noise level standard plus five dB for a cumulative period of more than 15 minutes
in any hour;
(3) The noise level standard plus 10 dB for a cumulative period of more than five minutes
in any hour;
(4) The noise level standard plus 15 dB for a cumulative period of more than one minute
in any hour; or
(5) The noise level standard or the maximum measured ambient level, plus 20 dB for any
period of time.
241 of 682

--- page 242 ---
- 3 -
(b) If the measured ambient level for any area is higher than the standard set in Table
7.3.40, then the ambient shall be the base noise level standard for purposes of subsection
(a)(1) of this section. In such cases, the noise levels for purposes of subsections (a)(2)
through (a)(5) of this section shall be increased in five dB increments above the ambient.
Table 7.30.040
Noise Level Standards
Noise Zone
7:00 am to 10:00 pm
10:00 pm to 7:00 am
Noise Zone 1
60 dBA
50 dBA
Noise Zone 2
60 dBA
55 dBA
Noise Zone 3
60
60
Noise Zone 4
70
65
* Source: Adapted from "The Model Community Noise Control Ordinance," Office of
Noise Control, California Department of Health.
(Ord. No. 2004-16 § 1.) 
Since the radios 
Equipment and Analytical Baseline Descriptions 
The planned radios are Ericsson 6705 units that are cooled using convection cooling 
rather than fans.  The noise level specification is no higher than 6.0 Bels of Sound Power.  
6.0 Bels equals 60 decibels.  The Sound Power rating must be converted to Sound 
Pressure and the emitted sound spectrum must be converted to A-weighted decibels.  
Sound Pressure must also have a distance associated with it.   
The A-weighted Sound Pressure Level is 53.5 dBA @ 12 in.
For the purposes of this study, we are using 53.5 dBA at 12 in. from the center of the unit 
as the worst-case noise emission reference level.  In addition, we are assuming that the 
53.5 dBA sound level is emitted equally in all directions around the unit as there are no 
this report in Appendix A.  
242 of 682

--- page 243 ---
- 4 -
There is one cluster node pole installations used. The installation will have three radios 
typically spaced equally around the perimeter of the pole forming an equilateral triangle.  
The angle between each unit is 60°.  The distance from the face of one unit to the face of 
another unit is 28 in.
The tilt bracket mount cluster is arranged such that the diameter of the circle created
by the radios is 32 inches.   
Below is a diagram of the typical pole mounting systems provided by the project sponsor.  
Note that the circle shown in the graphic represents the pole, not the circle created by the 
culations herein 
The most noise impacted location would be along a line normal to one of the three radios. 
The distances from the two farther radios would be equidistant to the receiver 
location that is along the normal path.
Calculations
Noise from a stationary source reduces at a rate of: 
10(r1/r2) where, rx = distance. 
For a doubling of the distance, r1 = 2 and r2 = 1.  Thus, 20log10(2/1) = 6.
243 of 682

--- page 244 ---
- 5 -
Note that sound levels in the human environment are described using A-weighted 
decibels, notated as dBA.  A-weighting is a frequency filtering network applied to noise 
data to replicate the human response to various frequencies.  When describing or 
reporting decibels in terms of change (increases, decreases), the A is dropped from the 
nomenclature as the weighting network is irrelevant in the mathematics of decibels.   
Decibels are added using the formula: 
dBsum = 10log10(10(SL1/10) + 10(SL2/10)
(SLx/10))
For example, 45.0 dB + 42.0 dB = 46.8 dB.   
Because of the nature of sound, noise and the environment, decibels are usually rounded 
to a whole value as 10th
difference in 2 decibels and usually only under controlled situations.   
The calculation methodology uses the following descriptors:
The angle between two radios is 60°.
The distance from the nearest radio (Radio 1) to the receiver (point A) is line segment A.   
The distances from Radio 2 or Radio 3 to Point A are designated as D. 
The radius of the circle (radio unit to center of pole) is r. 
The distance from the center of the circle/pole to the chord (straight line) between Radio 
2 and Radio 3 is B. 
The angle subtended by the radius and the chord is 30°.  
B = r(sin30).   
C = ½ chord length between Radios 2 and 3 = r(cos30°) or 14 in.
D = Sqrt[(A+r+B)2 + (C)2]
The total sound level from three radio units will be the decibel sum of the sound levels at 
A + D + D.   
The numerical values for mounting system are: 
Tilt Bracket 
r = 16.0
B = 8.0
C= 14.0
D is a function of A. 
244 of 682

--- page 245 ---
- 6 -
Example:
If A = 12 ,
dBA.  The sound level for Radios
2 and 3 are 43.3 dBA each.  The combined sound level is 54.3 dBA.  
D= Sqrt[(12+16+8)2 + (14)2]  = 38.6
A = 12
53.5 dBA 
DRadio 1 = 38.6
ound Level = 53.5 + 20log10(12/38.6) = 43.3
DRadio 2 = 38.6
53.5 + 20log10(12/38.6) = 43.3
Combined Sound Level = 53.5 dB + 43.3 dB + 43.3 dB, = 
10log10(10(53.5/10) +10(43.3/10)+10(43.3/10)) = 54.3 dB.  In terms of environmental noise, the
sound level is 54 dBA.
Again, reporting decibels in whole numbers is acceptable. 
Table I, below, provides the calculations of the distances from Radio 1 (nearest unit to the 
receiver) to result in a combined sound level of 50 dBA for compliance with the noise
standards of the City of San Mateo.   
Sound Level
Distance
dBA
(inches)
Radio Reference
6.0 Bels Sound Power
0
Radio Reference
53.5
12
Radio 1
49
21
Radio 2
42
47
Radio 3
42
47
Combined
50
Tilt Bracket Mount System
TABLE I
Ericsson 6705 Radio Cluster Noise Analysis
As shown in Table I, the minimum distance from the nearest radio to the receiver location 
in a tilt bracket mount system shall be 21 inches. The distance to the center of the pole 
would be this distance plus the radius, which equals approximately 37 inches or 3 1
245 of 682

--- page 246 ---
- 7 -
he
installation
of
the
3 adio
configuration
assemblies
analyzed in this
study at the minimum distances shown in Table I will result in sound levels
no higher than 50 dBA, which will be n compliance with the City
f
San
Mateo
Noise Ordinance standard for noise sensitive receivers.
If you need any additional information or would like an elaboration on this report, please 
.
Jeffrey K. Pack 
President
Attachments:  Appendix A 
246 of 682

--- page 247 ---
A-1 
APPENDIX A 
Ericsson 6705 Data Sheet 
 
 
247 of 682

--- page 248 ---
Operating Environment

The following is a list of values for the Streetmacro unit in normal operating
environment

Temperature range ~4@8°C through +55°C

Absolute humidity 8.26 g/m? through 48 g/m?

Acoustic Noise
The unit moy emit iow levels of acoustic noise during operation.

The acoustic noise depends on the ambient temperature.

Toble 6 Sound Power Level

Temperature (°C) Sound Power Level (Bel)
+55 =68

Vibration
This section describes the unit tolerance to vibrations.

The unit operates reliably during seismic activity a5 specified by test method TEC
66 068-2-57 Fi

Maximum level of RRS Se mi/'s* within ?—5 Hz for DR=2%
Frequency range 8.3—58 Hz
Time history signal VERTEQ I

The unit operates reliably during random vibration os specified by test method
TEC 68 866-2-64 Fh method 1

Random vibration frequency 2 Hz-288 Hz
Se astia

The unit operates reliably during shock a5 specified by test method IEC 68
@68-2-27 Ea.

A-2

248 of 682


--- page 249 ---
JEFFREY K. PACK 
ACOUSTICAL CONSULTANT 
Curriculum Vitae 
 
EDUCATION 
 
Berklee College of Music, Boston, Massachusetts, 1984 
 
 
Bachelor of Music; Professional Music 
 
 
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 1981 
 
 
Bachelor of Science; Geological Sciences 
 
 
West Valley College, Saratoga, California, 1979 
 
 
Associate in Science; Science and Mathematics 
 
EXPERIENCE 
7/81 to 
 
President and Principal Consultant 
 
Present 
 
 
Edward L. Pack Associates, Inc. 
 
 
 
San Jose, California 
Mr. Pack has experience in architectural, environmental, and industrial acoustics, including 
interior design of office buildings, hospitals, medical buildings, hotels, recording studios, 
auditoriums and residences, HVAC noise control, mechanical equipment enclosures, roadway 
and railroad noise barriers, transportation noise assessments and industrial facility noise control.  
Transportation noise assessments involve the analysis of automobile, truck, railroad and aircraft 
noise as they impact residential, commercial and industrial land uses.  His responsibilities are 
involved with both the administrative and technical aspects of Edward L. Pack Associates and 
his duties also include presentations at public hearings, expert witness testimony, conducting 
seminars in acoustics, directing and monitoring construction corrective work in residential and 
commercial buildings and the design and construction direction of noise enclosures for 
mechanical equipment.  Measurements, analyses, and evaluations are made to develop the 
specific recommendations required for the correction of noise and vibration problems. 
He has extensive experience in the field of interior acoustics associated with auditoriums, multi-
purpose rooms, gymnasiums, classrooms, churches, public meeting halls, TV and audio/visual 
recording studios, hospitals, and other acoustically critical spaces.  Mr. Pack is an expert in 
architectural acoustics designing noise isolating walls, windows and floor/ceilings, particularly in 
multi-family housing for compliance with State and local building codes.   
249 of 682

--- page 250 ---
Jeffrey K. Pack, (cont'd) 
5/86 to 
 
President 
 
5/94 
 
 
The Techtonics Company 
 
 
 
Sunnyvale, California 
Mr. Pack designed, developed, and manufactured acoustic and electronic drum triggering 
devices, acoustic stringed instrument transducers, including piezoelectric pick-ups for guitars, 
violins, violas, cellos and basses from inception through final shipping.  As President, duties 
included management of production personnel, purchasing, sales, marketing, and advertising.  
Retail stores and distributors carrying The Techtonics Company products are located worldwide. 
2/93 to 
 
Adjunct Professor 
 
3/94 
 
 
 
Cogswell Polytechnical College 
 
 
Cupertino, California 
Adjunct professor of acoustics, which included teaching noise control engineering, audio 
engineering, architectural acoustics, and sound reinforcement system design. 
7/84 to 
 
Owner  
12/87 
 
 
Mirage Music Technologies 
 
 
San Jose and Hermosa Beach, California 
Mr. Pack designed and constructed speaker cabinets, taught music, designed sound reinforcement 
systems, worked as a DJ for private and public events, worked as a performing musician.   
His prior experience includes teaching assistant for Oceanography 210 at USC, 4 years as private 
drum and percussion instructor, conducting seminars in acoustics and noise control, and in music 
education as the South Bay Area Alumni Representative for the Berklee College of Music.  Other 
engineering experience included geologic structure mapping, mineralogy, and geologic 
engineering. 
AFFILIATIONS 
Acoustical Society of America 
 
 
 
American Institute of Physics 
Audio Engineering Society 
 
 
 
National Council of Acoustical Consultants 
Sigma Gamma Epsilon Geological Society 
 
250 of 682

--- page 251 ---
Project Purpose and Technical Objectives 
 
251 of 682

--- page 252 ---
Crown Castle Fiber LLC 
Project Narrative 
 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
This Project Narrative is submitted to the City of San Mateo in support of its applications for the 
installation of wireless telecommunications facilities pursuant to City of San Mateo Municipal 
Code Chapter 10 Article 18, Wireless telecommunications facilities within the public right-of- 
Way. 
a. Crown Castle 
 wireless carriers with the infrastructure they 
need to keep people connected and business running.  With approximately 40,000 towers and 
18,000 small cell nodes supported by approximately 60,000 miles of fiber, Crown Castle is the 
r of shared wireless infrastructure, with a significant presence in the top 
100 US markets.  
 
-of-the-art in wireless 
telecommunications network technology.  It is a low-profile telecommunications system capable 
of delivering wireless services to customers of multiple carriers such as Verizon, AT&T, Sprint, 
Metro PCS and T-
-scale, as individual 
SCN facilities can be attached to standard sign poles that take up little space in the public rights-
of-
signals, and wooden utility poles.  Crown Castle SCN therefore allows one aesthetically 
unobtrusive system to take the place of multiple antennas or macro-sites constructed by individual 
carriers -- a single, streamlined solution that diminishes the prospect of multiple carrier-
constructed antenna facilities servicing a given area.  Put another way, Crown Castle SCN permits 
many carriers to provide their services over one system with only a single series of vertical 
elements. 
b. The Proposed Project 
 
 
Crown Castle proposes developing its SCN network with approximately one-hundred and ninety-
seven new (197
San Mateo 
All proposed nodes qualify as Small Wireless Facilities as defined in 47 C.F.R § 1.6002(l).  
Specifically, this application proposes one antenna node submitted to the City of San Mateo for a 
Wireless Permit by the Department Public Works. Completion of the Project will provide needed 
wireless broadband and communications services and the addition of critical network capacity to 
throughout portions of the City of San Mateo 
97 
252 of 682

--- page 253 ---
nodes comprising the SCN will utilize existing vertical elements in the ROW, including utility 
poles and city-owned Streetlights.   
 
Each SCN node receives an optical signal from a central hub and distributes the signal to the 
antenna nodes via fiber optic cable.  The optical signal is then propagated from the SCN nodes in 
the form of radio frequency transmissions.  Distribution of signal from the hub to the low-power, 
low-profile antenna nodes, allows carriers to offload service capacity and provide wireless 
communications and data services to areas otherwise difficult to reach with conventional wireless 
telecommunications facilities. 
 
By using existing streetlight, traffic signal poles, and utility pole attachments whenever possible, 
the Project seeks to reduce the addition of new vertical elements, thereby minimizing intrusions 
into the right-of-
 
ii. 
A majority of the proposed sites consist of the node units mounted directly to a streetlight pole 
with the attachment of antennas and radios in a shroud on the side of the pole. Fiber optic 
connections and power connections will be brought underground to these facilities. The total 
height of the pole mounted facilities, measured from grade level, is typically up to 
.  In addition, 
the nodes located on streetlights require an underground pull box containing fiber optic cable 
connection.  The fiber converters convert digitalized spectrum received from the hub into RF 
signals emitted from the node to the Service Area. 
 
II. 
APPLICABLE LEGAL STANDARDS. 
Crown Castle presents this analysis pursuant to the City of San Mateo Municipal Code. 
Specifically, this narrative demonstrates the demands and rationale that led to the selection of a 
particular location and design for the telecommunication facilities proposed herein. 
 
a. Applicable State Law. 
 
 
therefore have a special status under state law.  By virtue of the California Public Utilities 
1   
 
The CPUC has issued a CPCN (attached as Exhibit D) authorizing Crown Castle to construct the 
as a CLEC gives rise to a vested right to use the ROW in the C
 
1 Pub. Util. Code, §§ 1001, 7901; 7901.1; see 
, 114 Cal. App. 4th 642, 
 
 
253 of 682

--- page 254 ---
along and upon any public road or highway, along or across any of the waters or lands within this 
necessary fixtures of their lines, in such manner and at such points as not to incommode the public 
2 The nature of the vested right was described by one court as 
follows: 
 
 
offer extended to telephone and telegraph companies to use the 
highways, which offer when accepted by the construction and 
maintenance of lines constitutes a binding contract based on adequate 
consideration, and that the vested right established thereby cannot be 
 
 
Thus, telephone companies have the right to use the public highways to install their facilities.3  
 
right to exercise 
reasonable control as to the time, place, and manner in which roads, highways, and waterways are 
or otherwise prevent Crown Castle from exerc
(Williams Communication v. City of Riverside, supra, 114 Cal.App.4th at p. 653.) 
 
is designed as a ROW system.  With respect to the siting and configuration of the Network, the 
rights afforded under PUC sections 7901 and 7901.1 apply.  Crown Castle reserves its rights under 
section 7901 and 7901.1, including, but not limited to, its right to challenge any approval process, 
 rights as a CLEC. 
 
Government Code section 50030 also applies to telephone corporations seeking to install their 
facilities in the public rights-of-way.  That section provides that a city cannot require payment for 
entry into 
4 Section 50030 constitutes a legislative determination that 
any fee or exaction that exceeds the cost of addressing actual impacts arising from the construction 
of a telephone network is unlawful because it fails to satisfy the nexus and rough proportionality 
requirements under the dual Supreme Court cases of 
, 
483 U.S. 825 (1987), and 
, 512 U.S. 374 (1994). 
 
 
 
2 Pub. Util. Code, § 7901. 
3 
, supra, 114 Cal.App.4th at p. 648 quoting 
 (1948) 32 Cal.2d 378, 384 [196 P.2d 773].
4 
, supra, 114 Cal.App.4th at p. 648. 
254 of 682

--- page 255 ---
Government Code section 65964.1 became effective on January 1, 2022. Pursuant to this 
provision, an application for a new wireless facility is deemed approved if: (a) the city --including 
a charter city -- or county fails to approve or disapprove the application within the time periods 
FCC Rcd 9088 (14) (60 days for collocation of small wireless facilities and 90 days for stand-alone 
small wireless facilities; 150 days for non-small wireless facilities), and (b) all public notices 
regarding the application have been provided. (Gov. Code, § 65964.1, subd. (a).) The new statute 
also contains an express finding that wireless telecommunications facilities are a matter of 
California Constitution. (Id., § 65964.1, subd. (e).)
 
b. Applicable Federal Law. 
 
 
5 Sections 253 and 332 of the Telecom Act speak 
6 Section 
7 Section 253(a) provides, in 
relevant part:
No State or local statute or regulation, or other State or local legal 
requirement, may prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the 
ability of any entity to provide any interstate or intrastate 
telecommunications service. 47 U.S.C. § 253(a). 
 
Similarly, section 332(c)(7) states: 
 
The regulation of the placement, construction, and modification 
of personal wireless service facilities by any State or local 
government 
or 
instrumentality 
thereof
(I) 
shall 
not 
unreasonably discriminate among providers of functionally 
equivalent services; and (II) shall not prohibit or have the effect 
of prohibiting the provision of personal wireless services. 47 
U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(B)(i). 
 
 
5 
, 
Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order, WT Docket Nos. 17-79, 17- 84, FCC 18-133, ¶ 14 (rel. Sept. 27, 
m Act). 
6 
a type of telecommunications service (wireless). 
, 
Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order, WT Docket Nos. 17-79, 17-84, FCC 18-133, ¶ 34 (rel. Sept. 
 
7 
, at ¶15 (citing 
, 189 F.3d 1, 11 n.7 
(1st Cir.1999)). 
255 of 682

--- page 256 ---
Section 332 further provides as follows: 
 
A State or local government or instrumentality thereof shall act on 
any request for authorization to place, construct, or modify 
personal wireless service facilities within a reasonable period of 
time after the request is duly filed with such government or 
instrumentality, taking into account the nature and scope of such 
request. 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(B)(ii).
 
Any decision by a state or local government or instrumentality 
thereof to deny a request to place, construct, or modify personal 
wireless service facilities shall be in writing and supported by 
substantial evidence contained in the written record. 47 U.S.C. § 
332(c)(7)(B)(iii). 
 
As noted above, the Telecom Act prohibits localities from taking actions (or not acting) that either 
that the proper standard for determining whether a state or local requirement has the effect of 
prohibiting service and violat
decision.8 Under that decision, a state or local law has 
covered service.9  This test is met not only when filling a coverage gap but also when densifying 
a wireless network, introducing new services or otherwise improving service capabilities
10 In 
a state or local legal requirement could materially inhibit service in numerous 
ways
materially inhibiting the introduction of new services or the improvement of 
existing services. 11 
 
In addition to the above, other FCC enactments and policies also guide local governmental actions, 
including the following:  
(1) 
governments to act on applications for the siting of 
wireless telecommunications facilities.  The 
 
 
(2) 
 
8 
, at ¶¶ 10, 31.  
9 
, at ¶ 37. 
10 
 
11 
 
256 of 682

--- page 257 ---
during which local governments must act on applications for 
the siting of small wireless telecommunications facilities, 
restricted the fee rates jurisdictions may lawfully charge for 
small 
wireless 
telecommunications 
facilities, 
and 
Rule. Further, the FCC clarified that jurisdictions act solely 
within their regulatory capacity when dictating the terms of 
access to their public rights-of-way and instituted procedures 
for processing applications. The following year, in its 
decision in 
, No. 18-72689, 
(9th Cir. 2020), the Ninth Circuit Court confirmed all the 
preceding FCC findings. 
 
 
 
III. 
JUSTIFICATION 
As discussed more fully below, the Service Area described prior currently experiences a 
degradation in service due to capacity limitations in wireless telecommunications coverage.  To 
bolster this degradation in service and/or capacity, Crown Castle proposes small wireless facility 
nodes to support the degradation in this area. As a CLEC entitled to ROW access, Crown Castle 
construct its systems in the ROW. On that basis and during the network planning phase, Crown 
Castle examines locations potentially available for siting within the ROW.  The analysis below 
placement in the locations specified in the applications. 
 
a. 
Height of the Proposed Facilities.
 
The antenna heights and locations of the Small Cell Site nodes were chosen to provide the 
minimum signal level needed to meet critical coverage and/or capacity needs in the Service Area.  
Despite the technical limitations of a low-profile system, Crown Castle seeks to maximize the 
coverage of each node location, since maximization of the node performance equates to a lower 
overall number of facilities for the Network.  Accordingly, each location was chosen to provide an 
effective relay of signal from the adjacent node and nearby base station, so that ubiquitous 
coverage and capacity of the minimum signal level is provided throughout the Service Area with 
the minimum number of nodes.   
b. 
Location of Proposed Facilities.
 
The selected node locations maximize the RF coverage of the node and minimize 
interference/overlap with the other nodes of the system, resulting in a lower overall number of 
facilities for the Network and a less obstructive system.  Each node provides an effective relay of 
signal from the adjacent node, so that ubiquitous coverage is provided throughout the Service Area.  
Because each node is locationally dependent on the other nodes of the Network, moving a node 
257 of 682

--- page 258 ---
too far from its proposed location will result in an inability to meet coverage objectives and thereby 
impair the Network, rendering relocation technically infeasible.  In selecting node locations, 
Crown Castle also sought out use of existing utility, streetlight, and street sign pole sites that could 
serve as a potential host site for an alternative location.  
 
c. 
Small Wireless Facility Sites 
 
Apart from the siting considerations described above, Small Wireless Facilities are inherently 
unobtrusive by design.  Small Wireless Facilities were developed as a smaller-scale solution to, 
and in support of, the larger macro-site or cell tower.  It therefore represents a significant 
technological advance in the development of smaller profile wireless transmission devices.  As 
devices shrink in size, they also, necessarily, shrink in power.  Accordingly, more facilities are 
needed, and such facilities must be located closer to the user.  The proposed nodes are designed to 
be smaller scale and lower power to allow them to integrate more easily into their surroundings.   
 
The proposed facilities combine a smaller scale product with state-of-the-art technology that 
allows for multiple carriers to provide service from the node.  The nodes are designed to blend into 
the existing elements of the ROW.  They feature narrow-profile poles and minimal equipment.  
network of supports coverage by offloading capacity from the existing surrounding (macro) sites 
while also reducing impact to the ROW in the following manner: 
(1) 
Crown Castle Small Cell Site node utilizes the latest in 
wireless infrastructure technology, incorporating smaller, 
low-power facilities instead of using larger, more obtrusive 
cell towers; 
 
(2) 
Crown Castle Small Cell Site node utilizes the ROW, 
thereby avoiding intrusions into private property or 
undeveloped sensitive resource areas; 
 
(3) 
Crown Castle Small Cell Site allows for collocation by 
multiple carriers, thereby avoiding proliferation of nodes; 
 
(4) 
Crown Castle Small Cell site strikes a balance between 
antenna height, capacity and coverage in order to minimize 
visual impacts;  
 
(5) 
Crown Castle Small Cell Site carefully spaces the nodes to 
effectively relay signal with a minimum number of node 
locations; and 
 
(6) 
Crown Castle Small Cell Site seeks to utilize existing 
vertical elements in the ROW, such as utility poles and street 
light poles, thereby minimizing the net number of vertical 
intrusions in the ROW.
d.  
Health and Safety/FCC Compliance. 
 
258 of 682

--- page 259 ---
The FCC has preempted the field of compliance with RF emission standards.  Moreover, section 
47 U.S.C. 332(c)(7)(B)(iv) preempts local and state governments from regulating the siting of 
wireless telecommunications facilities on the basis of the perceived health effects of RF emissions.  
Nevertheless, the Network, and all equipment associated with the Network, complies with all 
applicable FCC RF emission standards is enclosed with the application and marked as Attachment 
07 - RF Compliance Report  
 
e. 
Selection Criteria for Each Node Site. 
 
Given the low profile of the nodes, and the resultant limitations of such a low-profile system, 
Crown Castle seeks to maximize capacity off load coverage of each node location because 
maximization of the node coverage equates to a lower overall number of facilities for the network 
and a less incursive system.  Each node is locationally dependent on the other nodes of the 
Network.  Accordingly, each location was specifically chosen to provide an effective relay of 
signal from the adjacent node, so that ubiquitous coverage is provided throughout the Service Area 
with the least number of nodes.  To move a node too far from its proposed location will therefore 
objectives as the node is unable to properly propagate its signal to the other nodes within the larger 
Network. The further a node is moved from its proposed location, the more the signal from that 
node will weaken. The technical limitations of small wireless facilities may result in limited viable 
options for their placement, as relocating a node by more than 50 feet from the proposed location 
materially impairs its technical capability.  
 
While Crown Castle is able to install new poles to achieve its RF capacity offload and coverage 
location. Crown Castle also considers aesthetic impacts, making the strategic decision to minimize 
the installation of new poles, where feasible, by installing nodes on existing vertical elements, 
including streetlights and wooden utility poles.  By approaching a network design in this matter, 
Crown Castle limits proliferation of verticalities in the public ROW.  Crown Castle considers the 
following factors during the site selection process:
(1) 
Technical feasibility;  
 
(2) 
Ability to utilize existing vertical elements;  
 
(3) 
Ability to offload and support capacity demands, meet RF          
            objectives; and  
 
(4) 
Minimization of visibility/aesthetic impacts.   
 
 
f. 
Selection Criteria for Node Site Location.  
Each node of the Network is necessary to support a degradation of service due to overload on the 
system.  The need to maintain minimum quality of service to a level that allows adequate in-
building coverage and to address growing capacity demands is underscored by the greater numbers 
259 of 682

--- page 260 ---
of customers dropping their landlines and relying solely on wireless telecommunications for their 
phone service.  Additionally: 
(1) 
In a recent international study, the United States dropped to 
fifteenth in the world in broadband penetration, well behind 
South Korea, Japan, the Netherlands and France.12 
 
(2) 
40 percent of all American homes are now wireless only.13 
 
(3) 
More and more civic leaders and emergency response 
personnel cite lack of a robust wireless network as a growing 
public safety risk.  The number of 911 calls placed by people 
using wireless phones has significantly increased in recent 
years.  It is estimated that about 70 percent of 911 calls are 
placed from wireless phones, and that percentage is 
growing.14 
 
(4) 
Data demand from new smartphones and tablets is leading 
to a critical deficit in spectrum, requiring more wireless 
antennas and infrastructure.  According to a 2011 report, 
wireless data traffic was 110 percent higher than in the last 
half of 2010.  Similarly, AT&T reports that its wireless data 
volumes have increased 30-fold since the introduction of the 
iPhone.15 
 
(5) 
Wireless data traffic grew by a factor of 20 between 2010 
and 2015.16 
As more Americans depend on wireless communications technologies and smartphone, reliable 
network capacity and maintaining high level in-building service coverage is and will continue to 
be critical.  The San Mateo Service Area is currently experiencing insufficient coverage and/or 
capacity.  Users in the Service Area therefore would experience an intolerably high percentage of 
blocked and dropped calls and/or slow data speeds for outside use, with a commensurate decline 
in signal strength as one moves toward the inside of existing buildings and homes.  Crown Castle 
Small Cell Site nodes seek to provide sufficient signal strength to ensure not only adequate signal 
for mobile and outdoor users, but further support for reliable in-building coverage for all those 
customers who may seek to abandon their home landlines and sufficient capacity to address new 
data demands from smartphones and tablets.  Wireless customers must be able to count on a level 
of service commensurate with that provided by landlines.   
 
g. Additional Information Provided Regarding Drive Tests-NOIs 
 
 
12 Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Directorate for Science, Technology, and 
 
13 Federal Communications Commission (April 2013). 
14 Federal Communications Commission (2013) http://www.fcc.gov/guides/wireless-911-services. 
Executive Office of the President Council of Economic Advisors (White House, Feb. 2012) at 2-6. 
15 
.  
16 
. 
260 of 682

--- page 261 ---
Drive test data, which is requested to show the area of coverage for the proposed site, is not relevant 
for a small wireless facility that is needed to address capacity constraints and network densification 
needs as opposed to traditional coverage gaps. Crown Castle did not conduct in-field drive tests 
and is unable to provide any drive test results reflecting any gaps in coverage or coverage are, as 
addressing a coverage gap is not a technical objective of the project at hand. We are instead 
improving existing service and introducing the 5G spectrum, a new service, to the San Mateo area. 
Small Cells are needed to densify the overall network and Crown Castle is targeting the Public 
Right of Way where 5G is not yet available. Please be advised that pursuant to the FCC, a provider 
enhancing, densifying, expanding, or introducing new services need not show a significant gap in 
order to show necessity for its facilities
it may instead use other, more relevant means of showing 
its introduction of new or improvement of existing services.17 The instant narrative and other 
application materials show Crown Castle is introducing new and improving existing services in 
the San Mateo area. 
 
 
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
 
Crown Castle respectfully presents its Wireless Permit applications for wireless communications 
questions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17 
, at ¶ 37. 
261 of 682

--- page 262 ---
V. 
GEOGRAPHIC MAP OF COVERAGE IMPROVEMENT WITH NEW SERVICE 
 
 
 
 
COVERAGE WITH NEW SITE INSTALLED AT LOCATION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
262 of 682

--- page 263 ---
VI. 
EXISTING AND PROPOSED NETWORK      
 
 
 
 
 
263 of 682

--- page 264 ---
Alternative Site Analysis 
 
264 of 682

--- page 265 ---
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
March 2023
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
July 2023
1
City of San Mateo
Primary Candidate for Pulgas Ridge
Legend
Proposed Node
Node
Latitude
Longitude
Structure Type
Address
Zoning district 
designation
CA_SF_SANMATEO_209
37.565433
-122.327967
Metal Streetlight
16 Baldwin Ave, San Mateo, CA 94403
CBD/R
265 of 682

--- page 266 ---
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
March 2023
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
July 2023
2
Pulgas Ridge
Primary and Alternate Candidates for CA_SF_SANMATEO_209
•
31 Sites Evaluated
•
All other sites eliminated due to being less preferable locations, GO95 restrictions, not following PG&E 
standards and guidelines, not meeting network coverage and capacity, or deemed more intrusive due 
to environmental and visual impacts.
Legend
Proposed Node
Streetlight Pole
Wood Pole
Decorative Lamp
Traffic Light
500ft Radius
266 of 682

--- page 267 ---
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
March 2023
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
July 2023
3
Pulgas Ridge
Primary and Alternative Candidates for CA_SF_SANMATEO_209
Node
Latitude
Longitude
Structure Type
Address
Zoning district 
designation
Reason for Being Acceptable or Unacceptable
CA_SF_SANMATEO_209
37.565433
-122.327967
Metal Streetlight
16 Baldwin Ave, San Mateo, CA 94403
CBD/R
Will meet the coverage objective.
ALT 01
37.564965
-122.328846
Wood Pole
22 Baywood Ave, San Mateo, CA 94402
R2
Will not work because the pole has a transformers violating PG&E standards.
ALT 02
37.565174
-122.32854
Wood Pole
7 De Sabla Rd (On Baywood Ave), San Mateo, CA 94402
R5
Will not work because the pole has a multiple risers including secondary power riser and is within 4ft of residential driveway violating PG&E 
standards and has tree branches around the pole. Tree interference will decrease radio/antenna signal.
ALT 03
37.565183
-122.328326
Wood Pole
1 Baywood Ave, San Mateo, CA 94402
E2-2/R5  
Will not work because the pole has a primary riser violating PG&E standards. 
ALT 04
37.564752
-122.329154
Wood Pole
32 Baywood Ave, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1B
Will not work because the pole has a multiple risers including secondary power riser, transformers and is within 4ft of residential driveway 
violating PG&E standards.
ALT 05
37.564824
-122.327751
Decorative Lamp
30 S El Camino Real, San Mateo, CA 94401
E2-2/R5  
Wireless facilities are not allowed on decorative streetlights per the City’s design standards. 
ALT 06
37.564867
-122.328788
Decorative Lamp
6-32 Baywood Ave, San Mateo, CA 94402
E2-2/R5  
Wireless facilities are not allowed on decorative streetlights per the City’s design standards. 
ALT 07
37.564364
-122.32765
Decorative Lamp
10 Crystal Springs Rd, San Mateo, CA 94402
E2-2/R5  
Wireless facilities are not allowed on decorative streetlights per the City’s design standards. 
ALT 08
37.565559
-122.328117
Traffic Light
39 Baywood Ave, San Mateo, CA 94402
E2-0.5/R/SC
Wireless facilities are not allowed on traffic poles per the City’s design standards. 
ALT 09
37.565263
-122.328113
Traffic Light
39 Baywood Ave, San Mateo, CA 94402
E2-2/R5  
Wireless facilities are not allowed on traffic poles per the City’s design standards. 
ALT 10
37.564295
-122.327459
Traffic Light
100 CA-82, San Mateo, CA 94401
E2-2/R5  
Wireless facilities are not allowed on traffic poles per the City’s design standards. 
ALT 11
37.564609
-122.327347
Traffic Light
Corner of El Camino and, Crystal Springs Rd, San Mateo, CA 94401
CBD/R
Wireless facilities are not allowed on traffic poles per the City’s design standards. 
ALT 12
37.564534
-122.329251
Metal Streetlight
37 Baywood Ave, San Mateo, CA 94402
E2-2/R5/SC
Will not work because the pole is too far away from our targeted coverage and capacity relief area. 5G signal travels ~200ft with line of site 
based on the surroundings. This ALT does not meet our RF requirements and is located ~495ft away from our primary target.
ALT 13
37.565462
-122.329573
Metal Streetlight
21 De Sabla Rd, San Mateo, CA 94402
Between R2 & R1B
Will not work because the pole is within 4ft of residential driveway violating PG&E standards and has tree branches around the pole. Tree 
interference will decrease radio/antenna signal.
ALT 14
37.566192
-122.328636
Metal Streetlight
1 Baldwin Ave (On St Matthews Ave), San Mateo, CA 94401
E2-0.5/R/SC
Will not work because the pole is too far away from our targeted coverage and capacity relief area. 5G signal travels ~200ft with line of site 
based on the surroundings. This ALT does not meet our RF requirements and is located ~495ft away from our primary target.
ALT 15
37.566048
-122.328893
Metal Streetlight
10 De Sabla Rd (On CA-82 ), San Mateo, CA 94402
R5
Will not work because the pole is too far away from our targeted coverage and capacity relief area. 5G signal travels ~200ft with line of site 
based on the surroundings. This ALT does not meet our RF requirements and is located ~348ft away from our primary target.
ALT 16
37.566285
-122.328897
Metal Streetlight
58 N El Camino Real, San Mateo, CA 94401
R5
Will not work because the pole is too far away from our targeted coverage and capacity relief area. 5G signal travels ~200ft with line of site 
based on the surroundings. This ALT does not meet our RF requirements and is located ~409ft away from our primary target.
267 of 682

--- page 268 ---
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
March 2023
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
July 2023
4
Pulgas Ridge
Primary and Alternative Candidates for CA_SF_SANMATEO_209
Node
Latitude
Longitude
Structure Type
Address
Zoning district 
designation
Reason for Being Acceptable or Unacceptable
ALT 17
37.566416
-122.328523
Metal Streetlight
58 N El Camino Real (On St Matthews Ave), San Mateo, CA 94401
R5
Will not work because the pole is too far away from our targeted coverage and capacity relief area. 5G signal travels ~200ft with line of site 
based on the surroundings. This ALT does not meet our RF requirements and is located ~394ft away from our primary target.
ALT 18
37.566698
-122.327891
Metal Streetlight
104 St Matthews Ave, San Mateo, CA 94401
E2-0.5/R
Will not work because the pole is too far away from our targeted coverage and capacity relief area. 5G signal travels ~200ft with line of site 
based on the surroundings. This ALT does not meet our RF requirements and is located ~460ft away from our primary target.
ALT 19
37.566518
-122.328141
Metal Streetlight
1 Baldwin Ave (On St Matthews Ave), San Mateo, CA 94401
E2-0.5/R/SC
Will not work because the antenna will be blocked by tree branches. Tree interferance will cause a decrease with antenna signal.
ALT 20
37.565824
-122.328394
Metal Streetlight
1 Baldwin Ave (On CA-82), San Mateo, CA 94401
E2-0.5/R/SC
Will not work because the antenna will be blocked by tree branches. Tree interferance will cause a decrease with antenna signal.
ALT 21
37.565179
-122.327807
Metal Streetlight
1 Baywood Ave (On CA-82), San Mateo, CA 94401
CBD/R
Would be acceptable but Crown Castle believes the primary candidate is better option to meet the RF coverage and capacity 
criteria
ALT 22
37.56558
-122.328394
Metal Streetlight
10 De Sabla Rd (On CA-82 ), San Mateo, CA 94402
R5
Will meet the coverage objective.
ALT 23
37.565678
-122.32783
Metal Streetlight
1 Baldwin Ave, San Mateo, CA 94401
E2-0.5/R/SC
Would be acceptable but Crown Castle believes the primary candidate is better option to meet the RF coverage and capacity 
criteria
ALT 24
37.565752
-122.327486
Metal Streetlight
1 S El Camino Real (On Baldwin Ave), San Mateo, CA 94401
CBD/R
Will not work because ALT 24 is 180ft away from the intersection of El Camino Real and Baldwin Ave (targeted area). ALT 24 will not be 
able to provide coverage at El Camino Real due to surrounding buildings and trees compared to the primary pole. 
ALT 25
37.565989
-122.327364
Metal Streetlight
1 Baldwin Ave, San Mateo, CA 94401
E2-0.5/R/SC
Will not work because the pole is too far away from our targeted coverage and capacity relief area. 5G signal travels ~200ft with line of site 
based on the surroundings. This ALT does not meet our RF requirements and is located ~269t away from our primary target.
ALT 26
37.566062
-122.327035
Metal Streetlight
16 Baldwin Ave, San Mateo, CA 94401
CBD/R
Will not work because the antenna will be blocked by tree branches. Tree interferance will cause a decrease with antenna signal.
ALT 27
37.566315
-122.326894
Metal Streetlight
117 Baldwin Ave, San Mateo, CA 94401
E2-0.5/R
Will not work because the pole is within 8ft of commercial driveway violating PG&E standards and has tree branches around the pole. Tree 
interference will decrease radio/antenna signal.
ALT 28
37.56456
-122.327325
Metal Streetlight
10 Crystal Springs Rd (On CA-82), San Mateo, CA 94402
CBD/R
Will not work because the antenna will be blocked by tree branches. Tree interferance will cause a decrease with antenna signal.
ALT 29
37.566788
-122.327765
Wood Pole
104 St Matthews Ave, San Mateo, CA 94401
E2-0.5/R
Will not work because the pole has a transformers and a secondary riser violating PG&E standards.
ALT 30
37.566326
-122.328948
Wood Pole
58 N El Camino Real, San Mateo, CA 94401
R5
Will not work because the pole has a primary riser violating PG&E standards. 
ALT 31
37.566396
-122.329036
Wood Pole
58 N El Camino Real, San Mateo, CA 94401
R5
Will not work because the pole has a transformer violating PG&E standards.
268 of 682

--- page 269 ---
Structural Analysis 
 
269 of 682

--- page 270 ---
Peter Lan Kimley»Horn

Crown Castle

1 Park Place 3875 Embassy Pkwy, Suite 280
Dublin, CA 94568 Akron, OH 44333
(341) 216-4693 (216) 273-8299

Date: February 17, 2023
KH Project #: KHCLE-32206

Structural Analysis Report

Site Designation: Crown Node ID: CA_SF_SANMATEO_209
Crown SCU #: 507321
Analysis Criteria: Code Requirements: AASHTOLRFD LTS-1, TIA-222-H,

2018 IBC, 2019 California Building Code
Wind Speed w/o Ice: 92 mph (3-sec gust)
Wind Speed w/ Ice: N/A

Site Data: 50 S San Mateo Dr, San Mateo,
CA 94401, San Mateo County
Latitude 37.565433°, Longitude -122.327967°
Existing 32 Foot — Tapered Round Pole

Mr. Lan,

Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc. is pleased to submit this “Structural Analysis Report” to determine the
structural integrity of the above mentioned tower.

The purpose of the analysis is to determine acceptability of the tower stress level. Based on our analysis we have
determined the tower stress level for the structure, under the following load case, to be:

Existing+Proposed Equipment:
Tower Rating: 82.0% Pass

The analysis has been performed in accordance with the 2019 California Building Code based upon a 3-second
gust wind speed of 92 mph. Exposure Category C and Risk Category II were used in this analysis.

Structural analysis prepared by: William Shea, E.I.

Respectfully submitted by:

Michael Oglesby, P.E.
Lic. #82179, Exp. 03/31/2024
Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc

kimley-horn.com | 421 Fayetteville Street, Suite 600, Raleigh, NC 27601 (919) 677 2000

270 of 682


--- page 271 ---
271 of 682

--- page 272 ---
272 of 682

--- page 273 ---
273 of 682

--- page 274 ---
274 of 682

--- page 275 ---
31.7 ft

x 8/8]/8]e
ror} oO
: ~~ 0 wo -
“Te}rTPelelR| eyo
N fo} vt N
.8 ft
oe]
2 lo}
mol =
o|)El] A
= ree 7 Ss Se So
e ko} g ele <
c = DS o oO =
s|/s/3!}s/lal&] ele
s/Ple /slealel|s]?
o © S/ =z o | 5 = 2
o/S3/Z2/F/eF}]a}]o]s

ALL REACTIONS
ARE FACTORED

AXIAL
1K

SHEAR MOMENT
1K 11227 lb-ft

TORQUE 611 Ib-ft
REACTIONS - 92 mph WIND

DESIGNED APPURTENANCE LOADING

TYPE ELEVATION TYPE ELEVATION
Luminaire 33 Street Sign 10.16
Luminaire Arm 31.5 Street Sign 8.58
(3) Antenna/Radio 29.08 Smart Meter 7.92
Street Sign 14.2
MATERIAL STRENGTH
GRADE Fy Fu GRADE Fy Fu
A36 36 ksi 58 ksi
TOWER DESIGN NOTES

aAkRWON=

Consulting Engineers

Kimley-Horn

ime) Hor 1234 W. Jones St.

Smallville, PA 12345
Phone: (555) 555-1234
FAX: (555) 555-1235

. Tower designed for Exposure C to the TIA-222-H Standard.
. Tower designed for a 92 mph basic wind in accordance with the TIA-222-H Standard.
. Deflections are based upon a 60 mph wind.
. Tower Risk Category Il.
. Topographic Category 1 with Crest Height of 0.00 ft

°° KHCLE-32206

Project: SANMATEO_209

Client! Crown Castle [2'”" >Y: William.Shea

Code: TIA-222-H_ _|>#e: 02/17/23

SE LTT 17-7 a


--- page 276 ---
Job Page
tnxTower KHCLE-32206 1 of 3
. Project Date
Kimley-Horn
1234 W. Jones St. SANMATEO_209 12:24:22 02/16/23

Smallville, PA 12345 Client

Phone: (555) 555-1234 Crown Castle a
FAX: (555) 555-1235 William.Shea

Designed by

Tower Input Data

The tower is a monopole.
This tower is designed using the TIA-222-H standard.
The following design criteria apply:
1. Tower base elevation above sea level: 1.75 ft.
Basic wind speed of 92 mph.
Risk Category II.
Exposure Category C.
Simplified Topographic Factor Procedure for wind speed-up calculations is used.
Topographic Category: 1.
Crest Height: 0.00 ft.
Deflections calculated using a wind speed of 60 mph.
. A non-linear (P-delta) analysis was used.
10. Pressures are calculated at each section.
11. Stress ratio used in pole design is 1.
12. Local bending stresses due to climbing loads, feed line supports, and appurtenance mounts are not considered.

Tapered Pole Section Geometr

Co eNAARWY

Section Elevation Section Splice Number Top Bottom Wall Bend Pole Grade
Length Length of Diameter Diameter — Thickness Radius
t t t Sides in in in in
Ll 31.67-1.75 29.92 Round 4.3800 7.7500 0.1700 A36

Tapered Pole Properties

Section Tip Dia. Area I r C VC J IvQ w w/t
in in? in? in in in? in? in? in
LI 4.3800 2.2484 4.9896 1.4897 2.1900 2.2783 9.9791 1.1235 0.0000 0
7.7500 4.0483 29.0894 2.6806 3.8750 7.5069 58.1788 2.0229 0.0000 0
Tower Gusset Gusset Gusset Grade Adjust. Factor Adjust. Weight Mult. Double Angle Double Angle Double Angle
Elevation Area Thickness Ar Factor Stitch Bolt Stitch Bolt Stitch Bolt
(per face) A, Spacing Spacing Spacing
Diagonals Horizontals — Redundants
t ti in in in in
L1 31.67-1.75 1 1 1

276 of 682


--- page 277 ---
Page
. Project Date
Kimley-Horn
1234 W. Jones St. SANMATEO_209 12:24:22 02/16/23

Smallville, PA 12345 Client Designed by
Phone: (555) 555-1234 Crown Castle ili
FAX: (555) 555-1235 William.Shea

Discrete Tower Loads |

Description Face Offset Offsets: Azimuth Placement CiA4 CyA4 Weight
or Type Horz Adjustment Front Side
Leg Lateral
Vert
tt ° tt fe fe K
tt
t
(3) Antenna/Radio A None 0.0000 29.08 No Ice 1.00 0.75 0.04
Luminaire B From Face 8.00 0.0000 33.00 No Ice 1.00 1.00 0.05
0.00
0.00
Luminaire Arm B From Face 4.00 0.0000 31.50 No Ice 1.50 4.27 0.10
0.00
0.00
Smart Meter C None 0.0000 7.92 No Ice 1.50 0.75 0.04
Street Sign B None 0.0000 14.20 No Ice 1.50 0.00 0.01
Street Sign A None 0.0000 10.16 No Ice 4.00 0.00 0.01
Street Sign C From Face 0.50 0.0000 8.58 No Ice 0.00 1.50 0.01
0.00
0.00

Load Combinations

Comb. Description
No.

1 Dead Only
2 1.2 Dead+1.0 Wind 0 deg - No Ice
3 0.9 Dead+1.0 Wind 0 deg - No Ice
4 1.2 Dead+1.0 Wind 45 deg - No Ice
5 0.9 Dead+1.0 Wind 45 deg - No Ice
6 1.2 Dead+1.0 Wind 90 deg - No Ice
7 0.9 Dead+1.0 Wind 90 deg - No Ice
8 Dead+Wind 0 deg - Service
9 Dead+Wind 45 deg - Service
10 Dead+Wind 90 deg - Service

277 of 682


--- page 278 ---
Job Page
tnxTower KHCLE-32206 3 of 3
. Project Date
Kimley-Horn
1234 W. Jones St. SANMATEO_209 12:24:22 02/16/23

Smallville, PA 12345 Client Designed by

Phone: (555) 555-1234 Crown Castle a
FAX: (555) 555-1235 William.Shea

Maximum Reactions

Location Condition Gov. Vertical Horizontal, X Horizontal, Z
Load K K K
Comb.
Pole Max. Vert 6 0.79 -0.64 -0.00
Max. Hx 1 0.66 0.00 -0.00
Max. H, 2 0.79 -0.00 0.60
Max. Mx 2 10499.78 -0.00 0.60
Max. M, 6 11178.66 -0.64 -0.00
Max. Torsion 6 610.97 -0.64 -0.00
Min. Vert 3 0.59 -0.00 0.60
Min. Hy 6 0.79 -0.64 -0.00
Min. H, 1 0.66 0.00 -0.00
Min. Mx 7 773.92 -0.64 -0.00
Min. M, 3 7.20 -0.00 0.60
Min. Torsion 3 -22.78 -0.00 0.60

Tower Mast Reaction Summa

Load Vertical Shear, Shear: Overturning Overturning Torque
Combination Moment, M, Moment, M-
K K K lb-ft lb-ft lb-ft
Dead Only 0.66 -0.00 0.00 -862.24 -8.02 -0.01
1.2 Dead+1.0 Wind 0 deg - No 0.79 0.00 -0.60 -10499.78 -9.64 22.76
Ice
0.9 Dead+1.0 Wind 0 deg - No 0.59 0.00 -0.60 -10167.04 -7.20 22.78
Ice
1.2 Dead+1.0 Wind 45 deg - No 0.79 0.45 -0.43 -7731.35 -7907.37 -416.16
Ice
0.9 Dead+1.0 Wind 45 deg - No 0.59 0.45 -0.43 -7417.52 -7852.07 -411.65
Ice
1.2 Dead+1.0 Wind 90 deg - No 0.79 0.64 0.00 -1045.98 -11178.66 -610.97
Ice
0.9 Dead+1.0 Wind 90 deg - No 0.59 0.64 0.00 -773.92 -11100.86 -604.56
Ice
Dead+Wind 0 deg - Service 0.66 -0.00 -0.24 -4613.54 -8.02 8.66
Dead+Wind 45 deg - Service 0.66 0.18 -0.17 -3517.04 -3119.12 -157.56
Dead+Wind 90 deg - Service 0.66 0.25 0.00 -864.44 -4407.75 -231.46

Program Version 8.1.1.0 - 6/3/2021 File:K:/NTL_Telecom/Workflow/Crown Castle/_Small Cell/VCA2/SMC - San Mateo/209-SANMATEO_209/4 - Structural
Analysis/Model/Design V - 28' - 9.5x3 Luminaire.eri

278 of 682


--- page 279 ---
279 of 682

--- page 280 ---
FLEXURAL STRENGTH

Kimley » Horn ALUMINUM PIPES (F6)

ADM 2010
Input
- Member Forces:
M, ‘= 11.23-kip-ft = factored flexural stress at base of pole (from TNX)
Cantilever := "Y" = Cantilevered pole? (Y/N)

[+] Moments Cb (Between Brace Points)
- Shaft Properties:

Sides := 0 = number of sides of shaft (0 for round)

Do ‘= 7.75-in = diamter of shaft at grade
t shaft = 0-17-in = thickness of shaft at grade

Dy = 2-in = diameter of unreinfoced pole penetration at base

- Aluminum Properties (Table A.3.4):

Fyy (= 30-ksi = ultimate tensile strength

Fy := 25-ksi = tensile yield strength

Foy = 25-ksi = compressive yield strength
Foy i= 19-ksi = shear ultimate strength

E:= 10100-ksi = Modulus of Elasticity

Oe ty = 0.75 = phi factor for tension rupture
db := 0.90 = phi factor for other limit states

ALUMINUM_Flexural Capacity_Pipe_w_Pentration - ADM 2010_v20180120.xmcd

280 of 682

Page 1 of 3


--- page 281 ---
281 of 682

--- page 282 ---
OUTPUT (Buckling Constants - Table B.4.2):

K := 1.0-ksi = Table B.4.2, Note 1

1

Foy °
By = 45.7-ksi == Foy| 1 + | ——— B, = 30.467-ksi
50000-K,

D, = 0.978-ksi

2

By -B

|b) _ 69.958
Dip — Dy

= C = §.2 is arbitrarily large because N/A

Rp Rp .
- |B, —D,.- if <S = Section F.6.2 F,, = 32.482-ksi
tb tb t t 1 b
shaft shaft

2 R
-E
LT >S

R
b
16- 1+
tshaft

2 t
shaft
Bee
shaft
35
Rp
By - Dy otherwise
t
shaft

Mn ib = Fy'Sx = nominal local buckling strength (F.6.2) My jb = 16.908-kip- ft

be Macy

dbp-M
oM y= romy 13.7
Ofte Mn tu 14.5

13.7

be My Ib 15.2

oM, ‘= min(dM,) oM,, = 13.7-kip-ft

[+] ADM References - Flexure

[I COMPRESSION CALCS
[+] ADM References - Compression (Does not Control)

ALUMINUM_Flexural Capacity_Pipe_w_Pentration - ADM 2010_v20180120.xmcd Page 3 of 3
282 of 682



--- page 283 ---
283 of 682

--- page 284 ---
Monopole Base Plate Connection
#VALUE!
Anchor Rod Data
Anchor Rod Summary
(units of kips, kip-in)
(4) 1" ø bolts (A325 N; Fy=92 ksi, Fu=120 ksi) on 10.6" BC
            Pu_c = 12.86
Stress Rating
 
            Vu = 0.16
19.8%
Base Plate Data
           Mu = n/a
Pass
11.5" W x 1" Plate (Aluminum A6063-T6; Fy=25 ksi, Fu=30 ksi);   Clip: 0 in
Base Plate Summary
Stiffener Data
Max Stress (ksi):
10.14
(Flexural)
N/A
Allowable Stress (ksi):
22.5
 
 
Stress Rating:
45.1%
Pass
Pole Data
7.75" x 0.17" round pole (Aluminum A6063-T6; Fy=25 ksi, Fu=30 ksi)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis Results
Connection Properties
Iar (in) 
0
Moment (kip-ft) 
11.23
Axial Force (kips) 
0.79
Shear Force (kips) 
0.64
Moment (kip-ft) 
Axial Force (kips) 
Shear Force (kips) 
0.00
BU # 
Applied Loads
Site Name 
SANMATEO_209
Order # 
Analysis Considerations
Site Info
TIA-222 Revision 
H
Grout Considered:
No
0.79
0.64
Adjusted Pole Reactions
Analysis Date: 2/16/2023
CCIplate - Version 4.0.1
284 of 682

--- page 285 ---
THE FOLLOWING PUBLIC
COMMENTS WERE SUBMITTED
FOLLOWING THE PUBLICATION

OF THE AGENDA PACKET

285 of 682


--- page 286 ---
i

From: Lindsay Raike

Sent: Monday, December 11, 2023 12:01 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo); Alex Khojikian; Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: recent press release re: NoCellOuts advocacy group + some additional thoughts

Dear City Councilmembers, City Manager, and Planning Commissioners,
A heartfelt thank you to those of you who have recently met with me and other concerned residents regarding
the proliferation of small cell wireless facilities in our community.

Please read the attached press release that was published last Friday in Everything South City: PUBLIC
PRESSURE BUILDS AS SAN MATEO ADVOCACY GROUP URGES CITY TO KEEP CELL TOWERS AND CANCER-
CAUSING RADIATION AWAY FROM HOMES AND SCHOOLS

| am fairly new to this issue but have spent the past month consuming as much information and research as
possible on this topic. | encourage you to do the same. There are many websites and articles linked at the
bottom of this press release. Please do your due diligence and learn about not only the overwhelming
scientific evidence that supports precautionary measures with the 5G rollout but also what other cities across
the country are doing to take hold of the power granted to them by Congress in the 1996 Telecommunications
Act to create strong, protective ordinances with appropriate setbacks between antennas and
residences/schools.

To the S&l Commissioners, on Wed 12/13 you will be hearing three appeals. In particular, the proposed tower
at 16 Baldwin Avenue is profoundly troubling to me—as it would be located mere feet from the St. Matthew’s
Episcopal Day School yard, across the street from a retirement community, and right next to the Mickelson
Center. As the passionate advocate who spearheaded the successful effort to save the Mickelson therapy
pool, | dedicated thousands of hours to the reopening of this beloved facility so that the most vulnerable
members of our community will once again have access to a safe space where they can heal and recover from
chronic illnesses and surgeries. Our therapy pool patrons have been counting the hours until they can return
to the warm, healing water. It is beyond heartbreaking that if this cell tower is installed, many in our
Mickelson pool community who are highly sensitive to man-made EMFs will not be able to use the facility.

| understand that per FCC guidelines your deliberations cannot be based on RF emissions, but please consider
other hazards as well. As noted by San Diego firefighter/fire and utility consultant Susan Foster, cell towers
can pose significant fire risks. “When a cell tower catches on fire, it cannot be extinguished through
conventional means until the grid has been cut. That can take up to 60 minutes. Therefore, all cell towers
should be set back from residential, schools, preschool and daycare centers — virtually any place where
numbers of people need precious time to escape.” The proximity of the target location for the proposed small
cell facility on Baldwin to the elderly residents who live at the Versailles across the street and to the mobility-
impaired therapy pool patrons at Mickelson is deeply concerning as these vulnerable individuals would not
have “precious time to escape” in the event of a cell tower fire.

! implore you to deny all three permits and uphold the appeals on 12/13 and halt this process until an urgency
ordinance can be adopted by the city. Lawsuit intimidation should not be a concern for the city due to the
following: According to telecom expert attorney Andrew Campanelli, “If a wireless carrier sues the city and
somehow proves that they violated the Telecommunications Act, the city does not pay them a penny.

286 of 682


--- page 287 ---
According to the United States Supreme Court under the Telecommunications Act and 42 USC 1983, they
cannot win damages and they don’t get attorney’s fees. So if the city gets sued and loses, the only thing they
have to give them is the permit to build the tower."

We have the solution; please heed the advice of expert attorneys Andrew Campanelli and Ariel Strauss.
According to Strauss, San Mateo’s guidelines allow for the city to hire an expert on the dime of the applicant,
Crown Castle, to ask if the need is legitimate, if the configuration is appropriate etc. In order to have a sense of
neutrality and fairness, | encourage you to hire an expert consultant other than Jonathan Kramer, who has a
clear conflict of interest.

Additionally, | urge you to take a look at what has been done in Encinitas. According to Strauss, their ordinance
and guidelines are some of the best in the state; it is very well-balanced and would provide a template for
correcting many of the deficiencies that are in the current San Mateo ordinance. Please note that it was
approved by Telecom Law Firm, so it can be assumed that this type of an ordinance is within reach for the city
of San Mateo. Please use the community as an asset in this process; send red lines back and forth until we
have an ordinance that is most protective of residential areas.

It’s important to keep in mind that once a new site is approved, the applicant can add 10 feet to it; they can
also add as many antennas as they want without showing a need. According to Strauss, there is a notion that
once there is an established site, it becomes a free place for an applicant to put new equipment. It is helpful to
remember this because once the city gives the green light to an application, we lose control. These permits
are for 10 years, and once approved, these sites can grow and expand in ways that we don’t fully anticipate.
Right now the application process is very focused on a specific type of technology, but we don’t know what
the technology will be in the coming years. Please keep this context in mind during your deliberations.

Lastly, it is important to think more broadly about what is currently happening in the industry, especially in
residential areas. There is stiff competition between the providers that offer wired services and those that
offer wireless options. Ina home, people typically use Wi-Fi or wired connections; so there is not the same
need that there would be on the street or in an outdoor space. Often there is a claim that these new
installations are needed for phone service, but that is not the case. These services are for high speed
broadband which overlap with existing broadband internet coverage and do not improve cell phone service. In
San Mateo, Verizon/Crown Castle is competing in the broadband space with other providers and getting the
city to subsidize their efforts. So we need to think more broadly about how much we actually need or want
this. There is a feeling among many residents that San Mateo is currently upholding the business goals of an
aggressive site developer. Please keep this perspective in mind about how this problem is being played out
and do what is needed to protect the health, welfare, and property values of the residents of our community.

Sincerely,
Lindsay Raike, San Mateo resident for 24 years

Lindsay Raike, CEO
Warm Water Wellness

Warm Water Wellness Inc
Promoting aquatic therapy resources on the Peninsula

warmwaterwelliness.org

287 of 682


--- page 288 ---
From: Irena Mavridis

Sent: Wednesday, December 13, 2023 3:26 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Ce: Jason Hallare; Alex Khojikian

Subject: 16 Baldwin Appeal

Dear Commissioners:

The City and Crown Castle must comply with the City’s application rules. In this case, the
application is plainly deficient and the Commission must reject the application because Crown
Castle never submitted a narrative description applicable to this specific site and did not provide
the City reasoned documentation for rejecting alternative sites. Essentially, Crown Castle is
trying to submit the same application for each of the 197 sites it plans to build. Please do not let
Crown Castle get away with this.

The San Mateo Design Standards and Application requires Crown Castle to provide Attachment
10- Project Purpose and Technical Objectives. This document must include both of the
following:

1. adetailed written statement that describes the technical objectives the applicant intends
the proposed wirelessfacility to achieve and the factual reasons why the proposed
location, centerline height and equipment configuration arenecessary to achieve those
objectives.

and

2. a written narrative that describes the uses (commercial, residential, primary
thoroughfare, highway, etc.) within the Service Area, and the manner in which those uses
would be negatively affected if the Service Area were to remain unaddressed;

Both of these are missing. The Attachment 10 narrative (pp.171-80) does not discuss the
specific “location” or “centerline height” of this facility. It does not describe the “uses” targeted
or affected in the immediate vicinity of the node. In fact, Attachment 10 is a generic statement
primarily composed of an overview of state and federal law and promoting its 197-node
network planned for the City. However, this is not a bulk application for the entire network. This
application is for a specific location, which is not discussed at all.
Attachment 11 - Alternative Sites Analysis is also deficient. Attachment 11
must include a meaningful comparative analysis and such technical information and other
factual justification as are necessary to document the reasons why each alternative is
unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not as consistent with the development standards
in Chapter 17.10. Conclusory statements that_a particular alternative is unacceptable,
infeasible, unavailable or not in accordance with the development standards in Chapter
17.10 will be deemed incomplete.

288 of 682


--- page 289 ---
Twenty-seven of the 30 alternative sites are dismissed as not “technically feasible” with one or
two sentence explanations (see p.187). For instance, several alternatives “will not work because
antenna will be blocked by tree branches” but there is no discussion of whether any trimming or
pruning could resolve the issue. Several others are claimed to have elements on the pole that will
violate PG&E standards. However, no documentation of alleged PG&E standards is provided and
no discussion of whether such pole complications could be remedied (for instance can a pole riser
and associated underground conduit be relocated to a nearby pole?). Attachment 11 must be
deemed incomplete.

Sent from Yahoo Mail for iPhone

289 of 682


--- page 290 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-8247
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Brad Underwood
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
December 13, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Wireless Permit Approval at 1001 Bermuda Drive (Permit# WC-2023-000206) - Appeal
RECOMMENDATION:
Hold a public hearing to consider an appeal from a resident within 500 feet of the proposed site of a wireless permit 
application that was approved by the Public Works Director.
BACKGROUND:
On July 20, 2023, the City of San Mateo (“City”) staff received a Wireless Facilities Communications Permit Application 
(“Application”) from Crown Castle, working on behalf of Verizon for the installation of wireless communication facilities on 
an existing metal streetlight pole within the public right-of-way (Attachment 3). The location of the proposed wireless 
communications facility is in the Fiesta Gardens neighborhood at the north side of the intersection of Bermuda Drive and 
Sullivan Street on an existing metal streetlight pole (City ID# 3009) within the public sidewalk. Attachment 1 shows the 
proposed facility’s location and photo simulation renderings. 
 
As required by the San Mateo Municipal Code (“SMMC”) Chapter 17.10, “Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public 
Right-of-Way”, Crown Castle must meet all requirements and design standards as outlined in SMMC Sections 17.10.040 
and 17.10.050. This includes, but is not limited to, a full permit application form and providing mailed notices to nearby 
residents within a 500-foot radius of the proposed project site of the proposed wireless small cell facility. Based on the 
review of all the submitted documents, staff determined that the application and proposed installation meet the required 
conditions of approval as outlined in SMMC Chapter 17.10.
 
After its review, the City conditionally approved the Application on October 27, 2023. As required by the SMMC Section 
17.10.070, a decision notice was posted on November 9, 2023 on the City‘s Small Cell Infrastructure website. The notice 
advised residents of the Director of Public Works’ (“Director”) decision and allows a 5-day appeal period. 
 
Approval Authority
 
The Director’s decision to approve this Wireless Facilities Communications permit application and the criteria the 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission (“Commission”) must evaluate in its determination of whether to grant or 
deny any appeal is based on SMMC Section 17.10.070(b)(1-4), which states in pertinent part:
 
Required Findings for Approval. The approval authority may approve or conditionally approve an application for a wireless 
permit submitted under this chapter when the approval authority finds all the following:
290 of 682

--- page 291 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
 
1.
The applicant and the proposed wireless facility comply with all applicable requirements of this Chapter and the 
City Design Standards and Application Requirements (“Design Standards”); and
 
2.
The application is deemed complete by the Director; and
 
3.
The proposed wireless facility complies with all applicable federal, state and local laws, regulations, rules, 
restrictions and conditions, which includes without limitation, the California Building Standards Code or any local 
building codes; the Americans with Disabilities Act, and all applicable health and safety requirements, including 
Public Utilities Commission General Order 95, (and as these rules may be amended or superseded); General Plan 
and any applicable specific plan; the San Mateo Municipal Code; and any conditions or restrictions in any permit or 
other governmental approval issued by any public agency with jurisdiction over the project; and
 
4.
The applicant has demonstrated that its proposed wireless facility will be in compliance with all applicable FCC 
rules and regulations for human exposure to RF emissions.
 
Appeal to Wireless Permit
 
Pursuant to SMMC Section 17.10.070(g), the appellant on appeal has the burden of proof for establishing the basis for 
seeking the reversal of the permit approval.
 
On November 14, 2023, the City received one appeal from Krzysztof Pawlik (“Appellant”), which included eight items as 
basis for the appeal (“Basis Items”) (Attachment 2). However, Basis Items Number 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, and 8 cannot be considered 
within the scope of the appeal since they relate to radio frequency (“RF”) emissions and/or are legally not required.
 
The Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) does not allow appeals when based solely on the environmental effects 
from RF emissions that are compliant with applicable FCC regulations and guidelines. Here, Basis Item No. 2 suggests the 
FCC does not have effective RF emissions regulations beyond 6,000 MHz. This is incorrect. The permitted facility’s 
frequency of 28,000 MHz is regulated by the Code of Federal Regulations, 47 CFR 1.1310.
 
Secondly, Basis Item No. 3, 4, 5, and 8 are solely based on RF emissions which cannot be considered for appeal.
 
Thirdly, Basis Item No. 7 cannot be considered by the Commission since National Environmental Policy Act (“NEPA”) review 
is not required for the City’s permit review. The City follows California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”) standards, 
under which this permit application is categorically exempt Class 1.
 
Therefore, the appropriate scope of appeal is as follows:
Basis 1: No resident requests
Basis 6: Aesthetics and visual nuisance
 
Pursuant to SMMC Section 17.10.070(g), the Commission shall hold a public hearing to consider and act on the appeal de 
novo and in accordance with the required findings by issuing a decision at the hearing.
 
Staff Review
 
Staff reviewed the wireless permit application for conformance with SMMC Section 17.10.070(b)(1-4).
 
Regarding Basis 1, no resident requests, the SMMC and Design Standards do not consider whether residents request 
additional services when reviewing a service provider’s wireless permit applications.  Therefore, resident requests are not 
291 of 682

--- page 292 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
required or considered in the application process. Here, Crown Castle has determined an application for a small cell 
installation is necessary. The City cannot prohibit or effectively prohibit services from a service provider when the service 
provider chooses to close significant gaps in its service coverage. 
 
Regarding Basis 6, aesthetics and visual nuisance, the project design was reviewed in compliance with the City’s Design 
Standards with exception to Design Standard No. 14 “Shrouding” where the conditionally approved design does not have a 
shroud. Staff determined that a shroud on City-owned metal streetlight poles would be visually more intrusive due to the 
added bulk and size. 
 
Based on the review of the Crown Castle application and the above, staff believes Crown Castle has met the requirements 
of the Municipal Code and Design Standards. Based on the above, staff recommends the Commission deny the appeal.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The public hearing to consider resident appeals does not have a direct impact on the City’s Budget other than costs 
associated with staff time which are paid for by the permit applicant.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This appeal is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Location Map and Simulations
Att 2 – Appeal Applications
Att 3 – Wireless Permit Application Files  
STAFF CONTACT
Jason Hallare, Senior Engineer
jhallare@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7316
292 of 682

--- page 293 ---
293 of 682

--- page 294 ---
,
/siand Blvd

—-- City Limits
—— 500-ft Radius

‘O) Proposed Location

@ Unacceptable Alternate

@ Acceptable Alternate
## Alternative Site No.

ATTACHMENT 1
Location Map

294 of 682


--- page 295 ---
— zy rapa

' LEGEND

—-- City Limits

—— 500-ft Radius

‘O) Proposed Location

@ Unacceptable Alternate
@ Acceptable Alternate

## Pole ID Tag
NT No Tag on pole

ATTACHMENT 1
Pole ID Map

295 of 682


--- page 296 ---
1
2
CA_SF_SANMATEO_151
1001 BERMUDA DR.
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
PHOTO SIMULATION
Aerial View
296 of 682

--- page 297 ---
EXISTING VIEW
CLOSE UP
CA_SF_SANMATEO_151
1001 BERMUDA DR.
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
PHOTO SIMULATION
View 1
297 of 682

--- page 298 ---
EXISTING VIEW
CLOSE UP
CA_SF_SANMATEO_151
1001 BERMUDA DR.
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
PHOTO SIMULATION
View 2
298 of 682

--- page 299 ---
299 of 682

--- page 300 ---
300 of 682

--- page 301 ---
301 of 682

--- page 302 ---
302 of 682

--- page 303 ---
Wireless Communications Permit 
 
303 of 682

--- page 304 ---
Public Works Department
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
pweng@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7300
Engineering Division
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403
  
Revised: March 2021
Wireless Communications Facilities 
Permit Application
INSTRUCTIONS:  
Prior to submittal of this Application, the Application Checklist and all other 
required materials, a meeting with staff is strongly encouraged. This voluntary 
informational meeting with City staff does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to 
begin.    
City staff may deem the application incomplete if the applicant fails to include 
any required information or materials. Applications shall comply with SMMC 
17.10 and the Design Standards and Application Requirements. 
Applicants may submit applications by appointment only. Please contact the 
Public Works Department for an appointment.
Applicant:
Name: ______________________________________________________
Company: ___________________________________________________
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________
Authorized Representative:
Name: ___________________________________________________________
Company: ________________________________________________________
Mailing Address: ___________________________________________________
City, State, Zip: ____________________________________________________
Phone: ____________________________ Fax: __________________________
E-mail:  __________________________________________________________
Pole Owner:
Name: ______________________________________________________
Company: ___________________________________________________
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________
Pole Owner’s Signature:
_________________________________________________________________
Printed Name: _________________________________ Date: _______________
Applicant’s Signature: (if different from Property Owner)
_________________________________________________________________
Printed Name: _________________________________ Date: _______________
Proposed Site Location and Description:
Proposed Project Address: ________________________________________________________      Pole Number a:_____________________________________
Zoning District (for ROW, provide nearest zoning district): ________________________________     a If in the ROW, provide the pole number for the streetlight or pole.
Latitude/Longitude of Location: __________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Construction Value ($)/Project Description:   _______________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Applicant’s Request:
WIRELESS PERMIT 
SECTION 6409 APPROVAL            
__________________________________________________________________
STAFF USE ONLY
Applicable Shot Clock Period (for informational purposes only):
90 days
__________
Pre-App Submittal Meeting ________________________________________
Neighborhood Meeting ____________________________________________
Application Submittal _____________________________________________
Application Deemed Complete _____________________________________
Shot Clock Expiration _____________________________________________
Conditionally Approved ___________________________________________
Appeal _________________________________________________________
304 of 682

--- page 305 ---
Public Works Department
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
pweng@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7300
Engineering Division
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403
Revised: March 2021
Wireless Communications Facilities
Permit Application Checklist
INSTRUCTIONS:
Prior to submittal of this Application Checklist, Application and all other 
required materials, a meeting with City staff is strongly encouraged. The City 
also recommends applicant holds a voluntary neighborhood meeting. These 
voluntary meetings shall not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin.   
City staff may deem the application incomplete if the applicant fails to include 
any required information or materials. Applications shall comply with SMMC 
17.10 and Design Standards and Application Requirements. 
All starred (*) items in the checklist below are not required for a Section 
6409 Approval.
Applicants may submit applications by appointment only. Please contact the 
Public Works Department for an appointment.
Applicant:
Name: ______________________________________________________
Company: ___________________________________________________
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________
Proposed Site Location and Description:
Proposed Project Address: ___________________________________________
Project Description: _________________________________________________
Pole Number a:_____________________________________________________
a If in the ROW, provide the pole number for the streetlight or pole.
Applicant’s Request:
WIRELESS PERMIT 
SECTION 6409 APPROVAL
OTHER(describe request)
__________________________________
APPLICATION CHECKLIST – REQUIRED MATERIALS
APPLICATION FORM AND DEPOSIT
PROJECT PLANS
VOLUNTARY NEIGBORHOOD MEETING 
SUMMARY
[Attachment 1]
PHOTO SIMULATIONS
[Attachment 2]
PUBLIC NOTICE, AFFIDAVIT, LOG OF 
COMMENTS
[Attachment 3]
PRIOR PERMITS & REGULATORY 
APPROVALS
[Attachments 4a, 4b, 4c, 4d]
PROPERTY OWNER’S AUTHORIZATION
[Attachment 5]
INITIAL CEQA ASSESSMENT
[Attachment 6]
RF COMPLIANCE REPORT
[Attachment 7]
NOISE COMPLIANCE REPORT
[Attachment 8]
SECTION 6409 EVALUATION (if applicable)
[Attachment 9]
PROJECT PURPOSE AND TECHNICAL 
OBJECTIVES INFORMATION*
[Attachment 10]
ALTERNATIVE SITES ANALYSIS*
[Attachment 11]
STRUCTURAL CERTIFICATION (if applicable)
[Attachment 12] 
305 of 682

--- page 306 ---
APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS – REQUIRED MATERIALS
The following Application Requirements contain the requirements for a complete wireless facility permit application. For the 
application to be deemed complete, the applicant must submit all the applicable application materials in the Application 
Checklist in accordance with the Application Requirements along with all other generally applicable materials required for 
the requested permit or approval.
Notes: All starred (*) items are not required for a Section 6409 Approval. After the City issues the requested permit, the 
applicant must obtain all other required permits (including, without limitation and as applicable, building, electrical, plumbing, 
encroachment, etc.) prior to performing the installation.
APPLICATION FORM AND DEPOSIT
Instructions: Complete the Wireless Facilities Permit Application  available on the City’s website or at the Public Works 
Department and submit the corresponding application deposit for the requested permit or approval. You may find the City’s 
fee schedule on the City’s website or contact the Public Works Department for appropriate filing fees.
PROJECT PLANS
Instructions: Provide two sets of complete 24 x 36-inch project plans drawn to a scale of not less than 1/16" equals one 
foot and a digital file of such plans in portable document format (PDF). Project plans must contain all the following: 
1.
Cover Sheet
A complete cover sheet must include at a minimum:
a detailed project description that specifies the proposed installation and/or modifications including without 
limitation all physical elements such as antennas, radios, power services, all cables, mounts, and all other 
elements of the proposed project
site information that includes the proposed site address, site latitude and longitude (WGS 84 datum), zoning 
classification of the nearest private property, project team contact information  site map, and pole number (if 
applicable)
2.
Site Survey (Only required for proposed ground mounted equipment)
Only a California-registered Civil Engineer or licensed surveyor may prepare the site survey. A complete site survey 
must include:
property and right-of-way boundaries with all bearings, distances, monuments, iron rods, caps or other markers 
clearly shown and called out
boundaries for all easements and/or dedications with all dimensions clearly shown and called out
approximate topographical contour lines with elevations called out
any trees at least 4 inches in diameter at a point approximately 4.5 feet above ground
all structures or improvements on the property or within the right of way within any block partially or entirely occupied 
by the project and any elements thereof
all structures or improvements on adjacent parcels within 15 feet from the property line
a north arrow, date, scale and legend
wet stamp and wet signature from the licensed preparer
general specifications and notes identifying the applicable public health and safety codes and standards
306 of 682

--- page 307 ---
3.
Site Development Plan
A complete site development plan must include:
plan-view drawings, which include:
the entire property or right-of-way block with the proposed project improvements
detailed before-and-after views for any equipment pads, enclosures, cabinets, pedestals and/or vaults
all existing and proposed equipment with all dimensions, labels and ownership identifications clearly called 
out
boundaries for all easements, encroachments and/or other rights-of-way for access and utilities in 
connection with the wireless site with all dimensions clearly shown and called out
all existing and proposed primary and backup utilities, including without limitation all cables, connectors, 
risers, conduits, cable shrouds, trays, bridges and/or doghouses, transformers, disconnect switches, panels, 
meters, pedestals, cabinets, vaults, generators and/or generator sockets 
detailed before-and-after elevation drawings from all four cardinal directions, which include:
all existing and proposed structures, improvements and/or fixtures with all dimensions clearly called out
all existing and proposed equipment with all dimensions, labels and ownership identifications clearly called 
out
all existing and proposed fiber optic cables, conduits, risers, guy wires, anchors, primary and secondary 
power lines clearly called out
callouts and notes for any proposed new or extended concealment elements
a north arrow, date, scale and legend
4.
Equipment Inventory
The equipment inventory does not need to include primary utility cables, panels or cabinets, or any other objects not 
primarily designed or intended for radio communications purposes. All other equipment must be inventoried with the 
following information for each component:
manufacturer and model number
basic dimensions (height, width, length and weight)
table showing volumes of all equipment
VOLUNTARY NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING SUMMARY
Instructions: Provide a summary of neighborhood meeting if conducted. Label the summary as “Attachment 1 –
Neighborhood Meeting Summary” and attach it to the application. If a meeting is not conducted, mark the checklist box 
with an “X”.
PHOTO SIMULATIONS
Instructions: Provide photo simulations of the proposed project as constructed. The photo simulations must be in a high-
resolution format and show the proposed facility from reasonable line-of-sight locations that would accurately and reliably 
reflect the appearance of the proposed facility and/or modifications as-built. Label these photo simulations “Attachment 2 –
Photo Simulations” and attach them to this application. Except as otherwise provided, photo simulations must contain all 
the following:
307 of 682

--- page 308 ---
1.
Current Site Photographs
Current site photographs must include:
photographs of the existing site from at least two different reasonable line-of-sight locations from public streets 
or other adjacent viewpoints;
a map detail showing each location where a photograph was taken, the proposed site and the direction to the 
site from each photo location;
Include a close-up view of the equipment, including all wires, conduits, equipment, etc.
2.
Photo Simulations
Photo simulations must include:
an accurate and reliable visual representation of the proposed facility from the same reasonable line-of-sight 
locations used in the current site photographs and must include without limitation all interconnecting cables, 
conduits, brackets, and electronic equipment such as antennas, radio units, powering, and the like;
a map detail showing each location where a photograph was taken, the proposed site and the direction to the 
site from each photo location;
Include a close-up view of the equipment, including all wires, conduits, equipment, etc.
3.
Section 6409 Photo Simulation 
For Section 6409 Approval applications, the applicant must provide at least one photo simulation that demonstrates the 
impact of the proposed modification on all concealment elements of the support structure. Concealment elements include 
but are not limited to radomes, cable shrouds, painting, landscaping, equipment enclosures and designs and/or 
techniques intended to blend with the surrounding built and/or natural environment.
PUBLIC NOTICE, AFFIDAVIT, LOG OF COMMENTS
Instructions: Provide a copy of the notice mailed to all property owners and residents within 500’ of the proposed project, 
proof of notification mailing (affidavit), and log of concerns, comments, questions with response in accordance with the
Application Requirements and Design Standards.  Label the notice, affidavit and log “Attachment 3 – PUBLIC NOTICE, 
AFFIDAVIT, LOG” and attach it to this application.
PRIOR PERMITS AND REGULATORY APPROVALS
Instructions: Provide true and correct copies of all the following:
1.
Prior Permits
If the applicant requests a Section 6409 Approval, provide copies of all prior local regulatory approvals (original siting 
permits and any modification permits) issued for the facility with any corresponding conditions of approval and project 
plans approved by the applicable regulatory authority. Alternatively, the applicant may submit a written justification that 
sets forth the reasons why prior regulatory approvals were not required for the wireless facility at the time it was 
constructed or modified. Label this documentation “Attachment 4a – Prior Permits” and attach it to this application. 
2.
FCC Licenses
If the applicant or service provider proposes to operate in FCC-licensed spectrum, provide proof of licenses for all 
planned operating bands. If there are federal build-out requirements, indicate which and whether they have been fully 
satisfied. If not satisfied, indicate what remains to be satisfied. Label this documentation “Attachment 4b – FCC 
Licenses” and attach it to this application.
308 of 682

--- page 309 ---
3.
FAA Forms
If the proposed facility requires the applicant to file FAA form 7460 or other documentation under Federal Aviation 
Regulation Part 77.13 et seq., or under the FCC rules, provide such documentation. Label this documentation 
“Attachment 4c – FAA Forms” and attach it to this application.
4.
Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) / Wireless ID Registration (WIR)
For all applications for facilities in the public right-of-way, provide a true and correct copy of the applicant’s CPCN and/or 
WIR issued by the California Public Utilities Commission or its successor agency. Label this documentation “Attachment 
4d – CPCN / WIR” and attach it to this application.
POLE OWNER’S AUTHORIZATION
Instructions: For privately owned poles, provide a letter of authorization from the pole owner that authorizes the applicant 
to perform the installation or modification. The letter must be signed by the owner. In lieu of a letter of authorization for 
facilities in the public right-of-way, the applicant may submit the property owner’s standard authorization form issued in the 
property owner’s regular course of business to demonstrate that the applicant has the authority to perform the installation or 
modification. Label this authorization “Attachment 5 – Property Owner’s Authorization” and attach it to this application.
INITIAL CEQA ASSESSMENT
Instructions: Complete, sign and attach to this application a fully executed Environmental Information Form. Label this form 
“Attachment 6 – Environmental Information Form” and attach it to this application. The Environmental Information Form 
may be obtained electronically on the City’s website or by contacting the Public Works Department. 
RF COMPLIANCE REPORT
Instructions: Provide an RF exposure compliance report prepared and certified by an RF engineer that certifies that the 
proposed facility, as well as any collocated facilities and any cumulative emissions from adjacent areas, will comply with 
applicable federal RF human exposure standards and limits. At a minimum, the RF exposure compliance report must provide 
the same information and in the same form as the FCC LSGAC Appendix A form for each band of operations. For projects 
on or attached to poles subject to CPUC General Order 95 regulation, provide evidence of compliance with CPUC General 
Order 95, Rule 94. Label this report “Attachment 7 – RF Compliance Report” and attach it to this application. 
The RF compliance report must include: 
the actual frequency, actual or maximum power levels (in watts effective radiated power (ERP)), and the actual 
or maximum transmitting channels for all existing and proposed antennas at the site.
exhibits that show: 
the location and orientation of all transmitting antennas; 
the boundaries of areas with RF exposures (whether individually or cumulatively) in excess of the 
uncontrolled/general population limit (as that term is defined by the FCC); 
the boundaries of areas with RF exposures (whether individually or cumulatively) in excess of the 
controlled/occupational limit (as that term is defined by the FCC).
Note: Each such boundary must be clearly marked and identified for every transmitting antenna at the project site, whether 
owned/operated by the applicant or another licensee. To the extent that the project site contains collocated transmitters from 
multiple operators, the RF exposure compliance report must evaluate all the transmitting antennas that may cause cumulative 
emissions.
309 of 682

--- page 310 ---
NOISE COMPLIANCE REPORT
Instructions: Provide a noise compliance report for the proposed facility and all associated equipment including all 
environmental control units, sump pumps, temporary backup power generators, and permanent backup power generators in 
order to demonstrate compliance with the City’s noise regulations. The noise compliance report must be prepared and 
certified by an engineer and include an analysis of the manufacturers’ specifications for all noise-emitting equipment and a 
depiction of the proposed equipment relative to all adjacent property lines. In lieu of a noise compliance report, the applicant 
may submit evidence from the equipment manufacturer that the ambient noise emitted from all the proposed equipment will 
not, both individually and cumulatively, exceed the applicable limits. Label this analysis “Attachment 8 – Noise Compliance 
Report” and attach it to the application.
SECTION 6409 EVALUATION
Instructions: If the applicant requests approval pursuant to Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation 
Act of 2012 (codified as 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a)), the applicant must complete and submit justification whether the proposed 
modification is an eligible facilities request that complies with the applicable FCC substantial change thresholds. Label this
worksheet “Attachment 9 – Section 6409 Evaluation” and attach it to the application.
PROJECT PURPOSE AND TECHNICAL OBJECTIVES*
Instructions: For applications not subject to Section 6409, provide the following information to demonstrate the intended 
technical service objectives and the nature of the existing service capabilities of the applicant’s network in the area that would 
be served by the proposed facility or enhanced by the proposed modification. Label this analysis “Attachment 10 – Project 
Purpose and Technical Objectives” and attach it to the application.
1.
Project Purpose
Identify and describe the project purpose. Possible responses analyze whether the proposed facility or modification will: 
add new personal wireless service coverage to an area in which the licensee does not currently provide any 
personal wireless service coverage;
add new personal wireless service capacity to an area in which the licensee currently provides personal wireless 
service coverage.
If the project has a different purpose from the options described above, provide such purpose in full detail.
2.
Technical Objectives
Provide a detailed written statement that describes the technical objectives the applicant intends the proposed wireless 
facility to achieve and the factual reasons why the proposed location, centerline height and equipment configuration are 
necessary to achieve those objectives. In addition, the statement must include all the following required information 
and/or materials:
a street-level map that shows the general geographic area of the service area(s) to be improved through the 
proposed wireless facility (the “Service Area”);
a written narrative that describes the uses (commercial, residential, primary thoroughfare, highway, etc.) within 
the Service Area, and the manner in which those uses would be negatively affected if the Service Area were to 
remain unaddressed;
a statement as to whether the applicant conducted any drive test(s) and, if so, all drive test results and data (in 
.XLS or .CSV or similar format) together with a report that describes how and when the applicant conducted 
such test(s).
3.
Network Map
Provide an overview map of the applicant’s network within the City’s jurisdictional and territorial boundaries that shows 
(1) all the existing wireless facilities that applicant currently owns and/or operates and (2) all future wireless facilities that 
are reasonably foreseeable within two years of the application submission. The map must provide a legend that 
310 of 682

--- page 311 ---
distinguishes between “macro” cells and small cell facilities.
ALTERNATIVE SITES ANALYSIS*
Instructions: For applications not subject to Section 6409, provide a detailed written analysis that describes how the 
proposed wireless facility complies with all the applicable requirements in the San Mateo Municipal Code, which includes 
without limitation the provisions specific to wireless facilities, and all the alternative locations and designs considered before 
submitting this application. Label this analysis “Attachment 11 – Alternative Sites Analysis” and attach it to the application. 
The Alternative Sites Analysis shall be included as part of the neighborhood meeting, if conducted.  In addition, the analysis 
must include all the following required information and/or materials:
a street-level map that shows the general geographic area surrounding the proposed location annotated to show:
all existing wireless facilities within the relevant geographic area
the search ring used for this particular project.  The search ring shall be a minimum radius of 500’.
all locations for each alternative considered for this particular project
for each alternative site considered, a detailed written description that includes, without limitation all the following:
the nearest physical address
zoning district designation for the nearest private property
support structure type considered
general design concept and concealment elements/techniques considered
overall height and achievable antenna centerline height
the factual reasons why the applicant considered the potential alternative site location and/or design to 
be unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not in accordance with the development standards in San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. Note: This explanation must include a meaningful comparative 
analysis and such technical information and other factual justification as are necessary to document the 
reasons why each alternative is unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not as consistent with the 
development standards in Chapter 17.10. Conclusory statements that a particular alternative is 
unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not in accordance with the development standards in Chapter 
17.10 will be deemed incomplete.
If the applicant did not locate any alternatives within the search ring, the analysis must expressly state that no 
such alternatives were considered.
STRUCTURAL CERTIFICATION
Instructions: Provide certification prepared and stamped by a professionally licensed structural engineer certifying that the 
pole foundation and attachments meet or exceed design parameters detailed in the design standards. Label this analysis 
“Attachment 12 – Structural Certification” and attach it to the application.  
 
 
311 of 682

--- page 312 ---
Project Plans 
 
312 of 682

--- page 313 ---
"maa eaten

SYR ee nome cae cate Sm Mao E-SMSEE~ Cnn DREAMED. S-O-1y

CROWN
CASTLE

VCA2 SAN MATEO BRIDGE HEADEND
1001 BERMUDA DR, SAN MATEO, CA 94403

PROJECT NAME:
PROJECT ADDRESS:

COORDINATES:
POLE ID #:

PROJECT TYPE:

CUSTOMER NODE ID #:

CROWN NODE ID #:
HUB NAME:
CARRIER:

LAT: 37.551258°
3009

CROWN
ws CASTLE

LONG: -122.299441°

EXISTING METAL STREETLIGHT POLE

580631

CA_SF_SANMATEO. 151
SAN MATEO BRIDGE HEADEND

VERIZON

+ | USA North

Know what's below.

SF Call before you dig.

‘California and Nevada
Call Two Working Days Before You Dig!

11.1-Sheet Index

sheet # sheet Description Page (CROWN CASTLE
fia hime BEET i Ceomoasae
bas SIT PLAN z One PARC PLACE. STE, 00
iz POLE ELEVATIONS 2 Suaun cm ses
i Enstne oros +
pit SONSTRUCTION OETALE = RECORD DRAWINGS |SSUE DATE
biz EvecTmicaL OETALS =
pis PV CRCUT ORG T
pia IEGUPHENT SPECIFICATIONS =

Exp. 09/01/24

Kimley»Horn

23878 ENEASSY PARKWAY, SUITE 200
‘AKRON, OH 44333
PHONE: (26) 808-7778
‘WWW KIULEY-HORN.COM

‘THIS DRAWING IS COPYRIGHTED AND IS,
‘THE SOLE PROPERTY OF THE OWNER. ITIS.
PROOUCED SOLELY FOR USE BY THE
‘OWNER AND ITS APFLIATES.
REPRODUCTION OF USE OF THIS DRAWING
ANDIOR THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN
IT1S FORBIDDEN WITHOUT THE WRITTEN.
PERNIGGION OF THE OWNER,

RELEASE
CROWN CASTLE BILLING /SCU #: 508918 ees a
PROJECT TEAM PROJECT SUMMARY NODE VICINITY MAP
ou ABPUCANTINEO ‘JURISDICTION. POLE OWNER INFO.
‘Company: KIMLEY-HORN ‘Company: GROWN CASTLE CITY OF SAN MATEO potas iaterd
‘Adoress: 9875 EMBASSY PKWY, SUE 280 Acdess: 1 PARK PLACE HANDICAPPED REQUIREMENTS, San wareo Ca sso
AKRON, OF 4955, DUBLIN, Ca 9568 “FACILITY IS UNMANNED AND NOT FOR. REVISIONS:
HUMAN HABITATION.
Contact TYLER REISETTER Contact JASON CANMARENA Ino] pare: COMMENT
Prone: 216,273:8200 Phone: 9252015800 HANDICAPPED ACCESS: STREET cLasatricarins a
Email tyler.elceterkiney-nom.com Ema: _jason.camarenaiterowncaste.com REQUIREMENTS ARE NOT REQUIRED. 4 [ern 4i2023| CousTmUCTION
vovenconeay x Peacoat © posses SEE
‘SROVIN CASTLE UTLITY CONTACT PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTAIC (PG&E) ADJACENT PARCEL INFORMATION: <i \ \ Goi Course + @ [oa10772029|1ssUED Fo” REVIEW
(Contact. EARLE CARRION PARCEL ID 095840220 - > .
ZONING CLASSIFICATION: RIC ot

Phone: 408.469.8692
Ema: earlacarionerowncaste.oom

PLUMBING REQUIREMENTS:
FACILITY HAS NO PLUMBING

coves
ALL WORK AND MATERIALS SHALL BE PERFORMED AND INSTALLED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE CURRENT EDITIONS OF THE FOLLOWING CODES AS
[ADOPTED BY THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT AUTHORITIES. NOTHING IN THESE
PLANS IS TO BE CONSTRUED TO PERMIT WORK NOT CONFORMING TO THE
[AREAS GOVERNING CODES,

‘CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE cBC-2010.
‘CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATIVE CODE. (INCL. TITLES 24 & 25) 2018.
ANSIEIA-222-F LIFE SAFETY CODE NFPA,

BUILOING OFFICIALS AND CODE ADMINISTRATORS (8OCA),
CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE CEC~2018,

CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE CMC-2018,

GALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE CPC-2010,

LOCAL BUILOING CODE(S).

COUNTY ANDIOR COUNTY ORDINANCES.

MUST COMPLY TO LATEST CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE (AND LATEST
MUNICIPAL FIRE CODE),

11, CALIFORNIA GENERAL ORDER 95 AND 128,

PROJECT DESCRIPTION

NEW EQUIPMENT WILL INCLUDE (REFER TO DETAIL PAGES FOR SPECIFICATION)
(@) SG RADIOSIANTENNAS
(1) GOA CTRATED SMART POLE METER

EXCAVATION/RESTORATION WILL INCLUDE:
(@) GROUND WELLS

(1) POWER VAULT

(7) TRENCH

‘THIS PROJECT WILL INCLUDE THE INSTALLATION OF A NEW WIRELESS RADIO FACILITY AND ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT TO AN EXISTING METAL POLE WITH EXISTING FOUNDATION
(ALL POLE ATTACHMENTS TO BE APPROVED BY POLE OMNNER), INSTALL POWER VAULT TO INTERCEPT THE EXISTING LIGHTING CIRCUIT,

Burlingame
Country
Chub

HILLSBOROUGH ies % 1 fo
(Incorporated CA_SF_SANMATEO_151 -
Area) sy ound ry

rea) ?

co or
(in Sihormeavan

Area) \
SanMateo

PROJECT NAME,

VCA2 SAN MATEO BRIDGE Hi

|EADEND

‘GROWN NODE ID NUMBER

CA_SF_SANMATEO_151

NODE ADDRESS:

1001 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO, CA 94403

HUB NAME

SAN MATEO BRIDGE HEADEND

[KH voB NuMBER _| [INHOUSE

KHCLE-35076 RAW EV. TS
CHECKED BY: TOR

‘SHEET TITLE:
ITLE SHEET
sHeeTNumBeR] [Pace
71.1 1 OF 8

PLOTSCALE: 151 @ 24306, 12 @ 11%"

313 of 682


--- page 314 ---
"maa eaten

SYR ee nome cae cate Sm Mao E-SMSEE~ Cnn DREAMED. S-O-1y

|EADEND

11x17" PLOT: 4

41x17" PLOT. 1" = 20.9" Fo

GENERAL PROJECT NOTES ABBREVIATIONS AND SYMBOLS POLE RISER PLAN POLE 12009 ete por. gre tuo PROPOSED ANTENNA AZIMUTHS | {CROWN CASTLE NODE # CA_SF_SANMATEO_151 CROWN
1. RGHT-OFAY USE PERT SHALL BE OBTANED BY CONTRACTOR PRIOR TO COMMENGNG ‘ceNTER Line Row. er (GPS COORDINATES: CASTLE
2. ALLWORKTO RE CONDUGTEDIN CITY RIGHT OF WY. UN. rr ~
3, ALLOISTUREED LANDSCAPING GHALL BE REPLACED TO SMILAR EXISTING CONDITION, PROPERTY LINE eset SECTOR 3: 340 LAT: 37.651258° CROWN CASTLE
4 AMY SIDEMRLK CLOSURE SHALL BECOORONATEDUNTH THECIY ANDPROPER SISVAGE WL | | er op-way cecum Seite poser LONG: 7122.200441° crown casTie
Je. SEAISES2 cera Wu 8 COORDINATED WITH CITY AND PROMIDED WHENEVER ExISTNG Serie She PARK RACE. SE. 200
UcHT¥G Ie REMOVED OR UNAVAILAGLE Ae REQUIRED. _ — naen 7 POLE TYPE EXISTING METAL POLE
6, NOMATERIALS Of EQUIPMENT SHALL BE STORED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY OR BLOCK ACCESS sw 'REGORO DRAWINGS ISSUE DATE:
TO PRIVATE PROPERTY. POLED # 3009 oriiasoss
7. CLEANUP OF THEWORK AREA WILL BE COMPLETED EACH EVENING ANDTHE PROvecTaREA || gg aas arene rover
IMILLBE RETURNED TO EXISTING CONDITION AT THE COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION AT EACH
NODE LOCATION,
‘8 ALLWORK TO COMPLY WITH OSHA AND CITY GUIDELINES, Power
{8 THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE TO REMOVE AND REPLACE AT THEIR COST. ANY una ANTENNA RAD CENTER: 23-1"
OMWAGE QUE TO THEIR ACT :
‘THE REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT OF NEWLY CRACKED, THE REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT OF ‘SUBJECT POLE IS LOCATED IN:
EXISTING CRACKS VIHERE THE CRACKS HAVE BEEN ENLARGED OUE TO THE CONTRACTORS stort ona CITY OF SAN MATEO R.O.W,
‘OPERATIONS, THE REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT OF DEFORMED PAVEMENT. CURB AND
‘GUTTTER SIDEWALK ETC, ALL SAW CUTSUSED FOR THE REMOVAL OF THESE TEMS SHALL Foc roc
BE PERPENDICULAR AND PARALLEL TO THE CENTERLINE CONTROLLING THATITEM, OF AY THE waren N
Ltr ancum eowen : <)
OVERHEAD UTIITY UNE
[act Sive COLORED EQUIPMENT IS NEW OR EXISTING TO-BE-UODIFED|
PREPARED BY
Kimley»Horn
APPROX. P.ULE. LINE:
2875 EMBASSY PARKWAY. SLATE 200
AKRON. OH 8333,
PHONE: (28) S078
PuE PuE pur Wii KRMEHORNCOM
Pu
rence UILDING.
(yP.) FOOTPRINT, “THIS DRAWING I COPYRIGHTED AND 8
—« —. oe) mroauceD Soy Fon USE BY THE,
— EMA Sumer ano irs AFFILIATES.
8 REPRODUCTION on UBE OF THIS ORAWING
i ANOIOR THE RFORMATION CONTAINED IN
jo ‘ Fesnigsion or me Onmiens
APPROX. ROW LINE: GROUND WELL ( TYP.) | a
| BUILDING WINDOW. RELEASE
! (TP) DATE SUBMITTAL
on ” a | We
APPROX. P.ULE, LINE:
EXISTING METAL LIGHT POLE- a — 7 (TYP) |
IEW POWER VAULT | . 28 g
(PLACE TO INTERCEPT EXISTING 7 .
° STREET LIGHT CONDUIT) Looe °
PuE
7 ww : —
se Row. Ino] pare: cONMENT
- -- a = 1 [orn aaaza| SEUEDFOR
P. sw. [SOnSTHUETION
~ sw. J ° °. al °. 0 [pseaz02s] SousTaveTION
°. °. P. = . Foe
\ FIRE. PROJECT NAME
FIBER VAULT- HYRDANT EXISTING.
(PERMITTED ONDUI TO POLE (yp) WALKWAY (TYP) ASSUMED STREET LIGHT VCA2 SAN MATEO BRIDGE HI
SEPARATELY BY ELECTRIC CONDUIT
OTHERS) J CONCRETE.
ASSUMED STREET LIGHT SIDEWALK, (TYP.) ‘GROWN NODE IO NUMBER
FIBER. ELECTRIC CONDUIT / ey] ex CA_SF_SANMATEO_151
Fz/ Oe SF
a] 7s
‘CONDUIT CROWN CASTLE NODE # ge] e2 BERMUDA DR
roe D CA_SF_SANMATEO_151 a8
Foc Foc Foc POLE ID#: OBE ADRESS.
3009 1001 BERMUDA DR
‘CONCRETE:
SIDEWALK, (TYP,) (:\ FACE OF o SAN MATEO, CA 94403
FACE OF APPROX. ROW LINE (TYP) CURB (TYP)
‘CURB HUB NAME
EXISTING
REPLACE SIDEWALK THAT IS DAMAGED AS 4 re | DRIVEWAY (TYP) SAN MATEO BRIDGE HEADEND
RESULT OF CONSTRUCTION. REPLACE FULL \ id Foe 5
SIDEWALK PANELS FROM SCORE LINE TO
po
‘SCORE LINE, MATCH EXISTING SIDEWALK Shy, a, o sw: Knivoe NuMBER _ [IN HOSE.
CROSS SECTION FOR REPLACEMENT SIDEWALK -—— row. c \ ™ KHOLE-S5076— OfconeD By: TOR
ety Row.
E ot marr
< pe Put SITE PLAN
>
BERMUDA DR 2
N n
3 __o AL pom)
D 3] |i | ea ALA 2 OF8
EQUIPMENT AND ANTENNA PLAN aIxS6" PLOT: 172" 10] 8 | OVERALL SITE PLAN ee Lor 5 2 FET | 20| [plorscalei 1a Sane. teeta

314 of 682


--- page 315 ---
so

SYR ee nome cae cate Sm Mao E-SMSEE~ Cnn DREAMED. S-O-1y

(E) POLE TYPE: EXISTING METAL POLE

(E) POLE HEIGHT: 25'-3"

(E) POLE OWNER: CITY OF SAN MATEO

(E) POLE ID #: 3009

POLE INFORMATION

SCALE!NT.S.| 1

10? oF sien

+f
07. OF Sion

Sa

GRADE

TOP OF EXISTING POLE

CL LGHT ATTACHMENT.
EL, 24-3" AGL

EXISTING METAL LIGHT POLE

To? oF SiG
SS

BOTTOM OF Siok
[snare ac $810" AGL

0

BERMUDA OR

‘CONCRETE FOUNDATION

NOTES:

1. ALL BLUE COLORED EQUIPMENT IS NEW OR
EXISTING-TO-BE-MODIFIED

2. ALL AZIMUTHS SHOWN ON THIS PAGE ARE GENERIC - SEE.
PAGE A1.1 FOR SPECIFIC AZIMUTH DETAILS

3. ALL NEW EQUIPMENT TO BE PAINTED / WRAPPED TO
MATCH POLE COLOR

KEYNOTES:

0.5" MAXIMUM DIAMETER POLE PENETRATION FOR POWER, GROUNDING. AND FIBER

© thatesPee aoiontTenna. CONSTRUG TPROMIOE PENETRATIONS AN FITTINGS
THAT Ane WATERS TIOMT AND IMTHOUT SHARP EDGES.
{AxIIUM DIETER POLE PENETRATION FOR POWER, GROUNDING AND FIBER

© Conoutr-constnverenovbe PENETRATIONS AND FITINGE THAT ARE WATERS TIGHT
fib iout sHanp e0seS.

© 1° seH.40 RIGIO CONDUIT FOR POWER AND GROUNDING CABLES.

@ 18 scx. 40 plod CONDUIT FOR POWER, GROUNDING, AND FIBER CABLES,

(CL LIGHT ATTACHMENT
cero a rr ae
ANTENNA RAD CENTER.
Sa ae
POSH. oe pen J

(3) RADIO/ANTENNA-

(see veran 18/011 & 10/014) 1

——nIsTING METAL UGHT POLE

To? oF Siew
Tera

BOTTOM OF SiON
earn ae

TOP OF SIGN Top ¢0a CT
+f —EATED SMART POLE METER dy
BOT. OF SIGN EL. E10" AGL

esa bor, 60a cT

RATED SMART POLE METER
ae

(SEE DETAL 14/01.4)

“oRAe
x00"

BERMUDA OR

~— concRETE FOUNDATION

PROPOSED UNDERGROUND UTILITIES NOT SHOWN. SEE SITE PLAN,

TOP OF EXISTING POLE
FL 25-3" AGL

CL LIGHT ATTACHMENT
arn

|ASTING METAL UGHT POLE

NOTES:

1. ALL BLUE COLORED EQUIPMENT IS NEWOR
EXISTING-TO-BE-MODIFIED

2. ALL AZIMUTHS SHOWN ON THIS PAGE ARE GENERIC - SEE
PAGE A1.1 FOR SPECIFIC AZIMUTH DETAILS

3. ALL NEW EQUIPMENT TO BE PAINTED / WRAPPED TO
MATCH POLE COLOR

KEYNOTES:

_-x, 8° MAXIMUM DIAMETER POLE PENETRATION FOR POWER, GROUNONG. AND FIBER

© hate Pem naolowmrena CONSTAUCTPROVIOS PENETRATIONS AiO STINGS
TWAT ARE WATERS TIONT AND WITHOUT ARP EDGES,
7 MaKIMUM OMNETER POLE PENETRATION FOR POWER. GROUNONG. AD FER

® Covoum-conetaveripmovibe PeweTRATIONS AN FITINGS THAT ARE WATER TIGHT
no wmniout StaRe EDses.

© +-sen.4oRIato conoUIT FOR POWER AND GROUNDING CABLES.

1.5" SCH, 40 RIGID CONDUIT FOR POWER, GROUNDING, AND FIBER CABLES.

Jo? OF EXISTING POLE
EC 425-3" AGL

GL LIGHT ATTACHMENT
ae

rst

cme

ANTENNA RAD CENTER,
EL £251" AGL

POT gH ge penn

(3) RADIO/ANTENNA-
(SEE DETAIL 18/01.1 & 10/01.4)

H — ee

SEE DETAL 1/01,1

EXISTING METAL UGHT POLE

RF NOTICE SGN
A EL 10-0 AG.

ToP 60a cT (SE DETAL 5/01.1)

{RATED SMART POLE METER
ae
BOT. 60A CT
RATED SWART POLE METER
Sa ae

(SEE DETAL 14701.4)

GROUND WELL (TYP)
= SEE DETAIL 9101.2

FIBER VAULT NEW POWER VAULT.
(PERMITTED (PLACE TO INTERCEPT
‘SEPARATELY EXISTING STREET
OTHERS) LUGHTING CONDUIT
GRADE “GRADE

EL S0=0)

\

\ srreer usuTIne
conor

‘CONCRETE FOUNDATION

EL 0-0"

Grrcer uchTiIn
‘CONDUIT.
‘CONCRETE FOUNDATION.
veut

5" POWER & FIBER
‘CONDUIT TO POLE.

SEE SITE PLAN FOR PROPOSED UNDERGROUND UTILITY LOCATIONS,

CROWN
ws CASTLE

CROWN CASTLE
CROWN CASTLE,

(ONE PARK PLACE, STE. 200,
DUBLIN, CA 94566

‘RECORD DRAWINGS ISSUE DATE:
o7/1472023,

Exp. 08/01/24

Kimley»Horn

23878 ENEASSY PARKWAY, SUITE 200
‘AKRON, OH 44333
PHONE: (26) 808-7778
‘WWW KIULEY-HORN.COM

‘THIS DRAWING IS COPYRIGHTED AND IS,
‘THE SOLE PROPERTY OF THE OWNER. ITIS.
PROOUCED SOLELY FOR USE BY THE
‘OWNER AND ITS APFLIATES.
REPRODUCTION OF USE OF THIS DRAWING
ANDIOR THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN
IT1S FORBIDDEN WITHOUT THE WRITTEN.
PERNIGGION OF THE OWNER,

RELEASE
DATE SUBMITTAL
REVISIONS:
INo[ Dare: ‘COMMENT
TSSUED FOR
4 [p7msi2023] ConstaUCTION
ISSUED FO

© [ososiz0zs| CoNeTAUGTION

8 [0310772028|16sUED FOR REVIEW

PROJECT NAME,

VCA2 SAN MATEO BRIDGE Hi

|EADEND

‘GROWN NODE ID NUMBER

CA_SF_SANMATEO_151

NODE ADDRESS:

1001 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO, CA 94403

HUB NAME

SAN MATEO BRIDGE HEADEND

[KH voB NuMBER _| [INHOUSE

1.0" FIBER CONDUIT

ORAWNEY: 1S

SPLICE NiTO POWER

|POLE ELEVATIONS - EXISTING (LOOKING EAST)

2a"936" PLOT:
11x17" PLOT: 3/16"

POLE ELEVATIONS - PROPOSED (LOOKING EAST)

4°36" PLOT: 378”
x17" PLOT-3it

POLE ELEVATIONS - EXISTING (LOOKING NORTH) a'S6" PLOT:

41°17" PLOT: 3/1

12

POLE ELEVATIONS- PROPOSED (LOOKING NORTH) |2#¥6"PLOT: 318"

[11'x17" PLOT: 3/16"

KHCLE-35076
CHECKED BY: TOR
‘SHEET TITLE,
OLE ELEVATIONS
sheeTnumpen| [PAGE
A1.2 3 OF 8

PLOTSCALE: 151 @ 24306, 12 @ 11%"

315 of 682



--- page 316 ---
so

SYR ee nome cae cate Sm Mao E-SMSEE~ Cnn DREAMED. S-O-1y

CROWN
CASTLE|

CROWN CASTLE
CROWN CASTLE,

(ONE PARK PLACE, STE. 200,
DUBLIN, CA 88568

‘RECORD DRAWINGS ISSUE DATE:
o7/1472023,

Exp. 08/01/24

POLE PHOTO - EXISTING

SCALE N.T.S.

POLE PHOTO - EXISTING.

SCALE: NI.S.

Kimley»Horn

23878 ENEASSY PARKWAY, SUITE 200
‘AKRON, OH 44333
PHONE: (26) 808-7778
‘WWW KIULEY-HORN.COM

‘THIS DRAWING IS COPYRIGHTED ANE
‘THE SOLE PROPERTY OF THE OWNER,

PROOUCED SOLELY FOR USE BY TH
‘OWNER AND ITS APFLIATES.
REPRODUCTION OF USE OF THIS DRAWING
ANDIOR THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN
IT1S FORBIDDEN WITHOUT THE WRITTEN.
PERNIGGION OF THE OWNER,

RELEASE
DATE SUBMITTAL
REVISIONS:
INo[ Dare: ‘COMMENT
TSSUED FOR
4 [p7msi2023] ConstaUCTION
ISSUED FO

© [ososiz0zs| CoNeTAUGTION

8 [0310772028|16sUED FOR REVIEW

PROJECT NAME,

\VCA2 SAN MATEO BRIDGE HI

|EADEND

‘GROWN NODE ID NUMBER

CA_SF_SANMATEO_151

NODE ADDRESS:

1001 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO, CA 94403

HUB NAME

SAN MATEO BRIDGE HEADEND

[KH voB NuMBER _| [INHOUSE

KHCLE-35076 RAW EV. TS
CHECKED BY: TOR

‘SHEET TLE:

-XISTING PHOTOS

sHeeTNumBeR] [Pace

A1.3 4 OF 8

PLOTSCALE: 151 @ 24306, 12 @ 11%"

316 of 682


--- page 317 ---
"moat eae

SS) ee gnome cae ate Sm Mao E-SMSE EE ~ Cnn Deg. DO y

A\ [CAUTION]

Keep Back___ FT From
this Antenna. FCC RF Public
Exposure Limits May Be
Exceeded Within This Distance.
Call 888-632-0931 for Instructions.
Qualified Workers:

y {NOTICE |

POLE WORKERS

There is an antenna operation
h on this pole. Please follow
guidance on signs near the antenna or
call the number below.
Site ID #

FCC Occupational Limits May Be CCERG 888-632-0931 mwa
Exceeded Within This Distance,
Site ID # nea
RF CAUTION SIGNAGE ‘SCALE: NTS RF NOTICE SIGNAGE ‘SCALE: NTS

TEM | PARTNUMBER DESCRIPTION DIMENSIONS | MATERIAL | aT UNIT WT.
1 | se Single Radio Bracket | Length 900" | wotnoled | xi eh
wath 267° | Steet

Heieht 5.75" | Galvanized

2 _ | exTemcaroW/e705
Radio Mounting
racket

Ercason 5703/6705,

Tenethsasr | notnoled [oa Bits
wiathsasr_| Stee!
Height. 750° | Gabraniced

PIN: SRB

CROWN

THEINFORMATION IN THIS DRAWING IS
‘THE SOLE PROPERTY OF NEW YORK
MANUFACTURING. ANY REPRODUCTION
INPART OR ASA WHOLE WITHOUT
WRITTEN PERMISSION OF NEW YORK

FILE: MAK-138

‘COMMENTS:
‘Single Radio Bracket features:
tit: 40" up/down,

‘ximuth: 120°
Max radio wt. 60 tos

‘DESCRIPTION:
ole mount bracket for Ericsson 6705,

SALANSCLMO 3/21/2022

TEVISONS

Rev | DESCRIPTION | DATE [ev
|

PAGE: DoF

PART NUMBER:

NYMHMK-138-5R0-6705

we CASTLE
om Tors OSS ROUEN

Exp. 08/01/24

Kimley»Horn

23878 ENEASSY PARKWAY, SUITE 200
‘AKRON, OH 44333
PHONE: (26) 808-7778
‘WWW KIULEY-HORN.COM

‘THIS DRAWING IS COPYRIGHTED AND IS,
‘THE SOLE PROPERTY OF THE OWNER. ITIS.
PROOUCED SOLELY FOR USE BY THE
‘OWNER AND ITS APFLIATES.
REPRODUCTION OF USE OF THIS DRAWING
ANDIOR THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN
IT1S FORBIDDEN WITHOUT THE WRITTEN.
PERNIGGION OF THE OWNER,

PANEL ANTENNA/RADIO MOUNTING DETAIL (ERICSSON - STREETMACRO 6705) SCALE: NTS | 18| | RELEASE
DATE SUBMITTAL
‘2x4 GALVANIZED
REVISIONS
Ino] pare COMMENT
P.C, CONCRETE PAVEMENT 7 jornazozs| SSUEDFOR
60A CT RATED Ue
‘SMART POLE 6" x 6-W1.4 x W1.4 WWF © [osiosi2023| CONSTRUCTION
METER @ [oae72023|166UED Fon REVIEW
MATCH EXISTING
4°MIN PROJECT NAME
a" VCA2 SAN MATEO BRIDGE H
STAINLESS STEEL BAND (TYP,) _
‘GROWN NODE IO NUMBER
CA_SF_SANMATEO_151
/ NODE ADDRESS
EXISTING METAL POLE-
SUBGRADE-SCARIFIED AND COMPACTED NO, 63 STONE 1001 BERMUDA DR
TO AT LEAST 95% OF THE MODIFIED ‘SAN MATEO, CA 94403
PROCTOR MAXIMUM DRY DENSITY
HUB NAME
NOTES:
SAN MATEO BRIDGE HEADEND
a 1, ALL SIDEWALK SHALL BE CONSTRUCTED WITH CONCRETE WITH A MINIMUM COMPRESSIVE STRENGTH OF
4,500 PSI AT 14 DAYS, KH vosnumeen | [IN HOUSE
2, PROVIDE 1/2" EXPANSION JOINTS AT 20, MAXIMUM, SPACING AND FILLED WITH PREMOLDED BITUMINOUS oRAwen ue
EXPANSION JOINT FILLER MATERIAL OR REDWOOD, EXPANSION JOINTS SHALL HAVE ##4 DOWELS, LUBRICATED, KHCLE-S5076 GhecKeD By: TOR
18" LONG, AT 12° CENTERS, 6" FROM EDGE.
SIDE VIEW 3, PROVIDE 3/8" GROOVED CONTROL JOINTS AT 5' CENTERS. (SHEET TITLE
4, PROVIDE 1/2" BITUMINOUS EXPANSION JOINT FILLER MATERIAL WHERE WALK ABUTS EXISTING. CONSTRUCTION
IMPROVEMENTS AND AT ALL CHANGES IN GRADE DETAILS
5. USE 2.#4 REINFORCING BARS, 10 LONG OVER ALL UTILITY TRENCHES FOR NEW SIDEWALK AND CONNECTIONS
NOTE: CONTRACTOR TO SUPPLY ADDITIONAL HARDWARE FOR ATTACHMENT TO EXISTING SIDEWALK.
6. AT DRIVE APPROACHES, SIDEWALK PCC AND BASE THICKNESS SHALL MATCH THAT OF THE DRIVE.
AS NEEDED. sheeTnumpen| [PAGE
D141 5 OF 8
EQUIPMENT MOUNTING DETAIL SCALE: NTS CONCRETE SIDEWALK STANDARD SCALE: NTS| 20| [prorecania eanae12@itay

|EADEND

317 of 682


--- page 318 ---
so

SS) ee gnome cae ate Sm Mao E-SMSE EE ~ Cnn Deg. DO y

FOR ALL COAX WATERPROOFING INSTALLATIONS, SEE
INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS FOR,

UMA WIRELESS “JMA WEATHER PROTECTION SYSTEM"
1. FOR 1/2" CONNECTIONS TO ANTENNA OR DEVICE

2, FOR 1/2" CONNECTIONS TO ANTENNA OR DEVICE USING
WPS-DF-CUTTER,

3. FOR WPSw, 1/2" NM CONNECTOR TO PORT

Notes:

GRADE

so MN,
TOR BELOW
FROSTUNE)

may

LCADWELD GROUNDING WIRE
[7 Torco me. cron any-

GROUND CONDUCTORS #2
SOLID BARE TINNED COPPER
PERPLAN,

COPPER
‘GROUND
BUSS BAR

1, ALL CONNECTORS MUST BE DOUBLE LUG.
2. MOUNT ANTENNA GROUND BUSS VERTICALLY
BEHIND LOWER ANTENNA ARRAY

#6.CU GROUND KIT
(WP. FOR EA.

1 CADWELD- SEE DETAL VEL!
‘A. MECHANICAL CONNECTION

E cron san. corren-sze As NEEDED

| GROUND ROD - SEE DETAL 9.1

ADDITIONAL #2 TINNED SOLID
[AND GROUND ROD -IF NEEDED
TO ACHIEVE REQUAED
ITeSTING RESULTS OF 8 Ohms

ELEC. DISCONNECT

CROWN
ws CASTLE

CROWN CASTLE
CROWN CASTLE,

(ONE PARK PLACE, STE. 200,
DUBLIN, CA 94566

4, FORWPS-ORA, MALETO PORT Ee semm.xecorren 4D,
5. FOR 1/4" CONNECTIONS TO ANTENNA OR DEVICE geonrovounoss oe | | /
CONNECTION (3/4°DIA. x 10° /
eee
Sectors mrss xox soscun sesounmneo
USED IN UEU OF ROD IF REGD {ie THOR TINNED COPPER Buss
(DUE TO SOIL TYPE: INSTALL BAR - PROVIDED BY CONTRACTOR POE — MASTER BUS BAR
‘COAX WATERPROOFING - FUSION TAPE TYPE. SCALE: NTS | 5 | COAX WATERPROOFING - FUSION TAPE TYPE SCALE: NTS | 9 | GROUND BUS BAR DETAIL SCALE: NTS | 13 | EQUIPMENT GROUNDING SCHEMATIC DETAIL SCALE: NTS | 17
suet sea SETAE I TAR LOS TG a ee a
peo eee earners POWER CONSUMPTION TABLE csoino acorns ase
cnounens a Samurai ar cette ie Cte ROT UNCER WE
pewove coat aie 4, CONTRACTOR SHELL PROBE AL LABOR AN MATERIAL DESCRIBED ON THIS DESCRIPTION = | QTY | (VA) size L cromonco-seeoeratoets
) Ly DRAWING, AND 4, ALL ITEMS INCIDENTAL TO COMPLETING AND PRESENTING THIS ~
Ta ee ee eee co on
#8.GROUND usTED, i. wy om 1 STREETMACRO 6705 1 soo | #12
- 5. Ceiticton ain be NeTaie0M eckeou.e wo ctu BNDERENOLND|
\eAO IMC OR SCH 80 PVC CONDUIT ABOVE GROUND. 2 STREETMACRO 6705, 1 500 #12
ose ee re apouno conout iH PUL RE #2
BETWEEN ELECTRICAL UTILITY DEMARCATION POINT AND APS JUNCTION BOX, 3 STREETMACRO 6705. 1 500
See eee a ac Scanone aatenoN
io coutmucron ga oeTenune TOTAL NON-CONTINUOUS _ [1500
sens TE ee ie NO CONDUT A APPROPRRTE TINGE TOERTE WORLD TOTAL KVA H500 ;—
2 Be Bkoron roomy sun apeaormATe ARTES pAloR To constRUCTION a0
SHALL PROVIDE AND MAINTAIN A TRAFFIC CONTROL PLAN PER NOOT REGUREMENTS, TOTAL AMPS @ 240V 6.25 pacposeD
Jeera fo ee ot ee oe oer ree
Tee, in earcetter etme mamyenceanerontemsrmovenronene SINGLE PHASE eure sence eR ‘etonronae
PUTTY TAPE MASTICTAPE | T0- (ETHODS AND NOTE ON PLAN SETS FOR AS-BUILT CLOSE OUT. TWO WIRE [RADIOIANTENNA
eee ee eee ee eur acoune
t Sarma FRAME SIZE SOA sucsten sus san
12. IF EXISTING IRRIGATION LINES ARE ENCOUNTERED. CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY Mas
‘OWNER PRIOR TO DISTURBING OR MODIFYING. FUSE SIZE 8A
ca, SRN TOURS ONS. couruen on pat tocaToNs
isha tren aceite Uren ter
14 MAR SegaTICTINs Ge SISCET TS GROIN CRE Wo DONORS
Peers + $§$ enero wera. roe
COAXIAL CABLE GROUNDING soate: wi78.| 2 [ELECTRICAL NOTES SCALE NONE] 6 | POWER CONSUMPTION TABLE SOALE: NTs [14

TUGMTING ORCUTT

cor esaccamm—— |

Gunvcoran staan

g

(nSTREET MACRO 670

OAT RATED SMART POLE
METER (SINGLE PHASE

"TW WARE, 2401, 604i)
‘WITH SA FUSES AND FUSE
REDUCERS ASNECESSARY.

rst

[a)#n2 ANG COPPERSTRANDID THW2
{a}n2 COPPERSTRAND GROUND

PART 2-ExEcuTION
21 EXECUTION

PROVIDE (1) WARN GROUND FROM! THE ANTENNA MOUNTING BRACKET AT THE TOP OF THE POLE, TO THE MAIN GROUND BUS BAR (TAGS) (LOCATION DEFINED BELON). MAN
‘VERTICAL GROUND SHALL CONSIST OF A # 2 SOLID BARE COPPER CABLE, SAID GROUND SHALL BE PROTECTED BY PVC U-GUARD TO THE TOP OF THE POLE ANID STAPLED
EVERY 2F WITH CORROSION RESISTANT (DIPPED GALVANIZED) STAPLES.

‘2.SOLID BARE COPPER GABLE Is HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE TO THEFT AND IAY BE ABIT EXCESSIVE TO AUN TO TOP OF POLE. #2TI\ COATED IS RECOMMENDED BY OPS. AS ITS
CHEAPER AND LESS LIKELY TO BE STOLEN. BUSS BARS MAY ALSO BE TIN COATED TO MAKE THEM LEGS SUSCEPTIBLE TO THEFT.

PROVIDE (1) MAN GROUND FROM THE MIAN GROUND BUS BAR (THGB) (LOCATION DEFBIED BELOW) TO A GROUND ROD AT THE POLE BASE. MAIN GROUND VERTICAL SHALL
CONSIST OF A # 2S0UD BARE COPPER CABLE, SAD GROUND SHALL BE PROTECTED BY APVC U-GUAAD TO THE BOTTOM OF THE POLE AND STAPLED EVERY 24" WITH
‘CORROSION RESISTANT (DIPPED GALVANIZED) STAPLES.

(GROUND ROD SHALL BE IN DEPTH MINILIUM AND COPPER CLAD,

(GROUND ROD SHALL BE PLAGED PER NEC CODE Wf REGARDS TO DEPTH AND DISTANCE FROM WOOD POLE,

(GROUND ROD SHALL BE BURIED MANIMUM OF SO" BELOW GRADE,

4? 2 GROUND SHALL BE ATTACHED DIRECTLY TO THE GROLIND ROD WA GAD WELD,

IAIN GROUND VERTICAL SHALL BE ATTACHED DIRECTLY TO A GROUND BUS BAR (TGB) MOUNTED TO THE FACE OF THE UTRITY POLE, METHOD OF CONTACT SHALL BE 2
HOLE SLOTTED LUG (BROWN) TO THE WAIN GROUND BUS (TMG) ON THE LEFT OR TOP SLOT DEPENDING ON THE ORIENTATION OF THE TMGB.

ARN GROUND VERTICAL TO THE ANTENNA MOUNTING BRACKET SHALL BE ATTACHED DIRECTLY TO THE ANTENNA BRACKET VIA SELF-TAPPING BOLT OR SCREW. A
WASHER MUST BE ADDED TO THE THRU BOLT OR SCREW TO AVOID DAMAGE TO THE LUG WHILE MAINTAINING A SECURE BOND.

‘TGB SHALL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE CHARLES CABINET BELOW THE RAH STANDOFF, DIRECTLY TO THE WOOD POLE STRUCTURE.

ALL POLE MOUNTED DEVICES, PICLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO: (ANTENA MOUNTS AND ANTENNAS, MOUNTPVG BRACKETS, CABINETS) SHALL BE CONNECTED TO THE
‘TUG WITH & #6 COPPER STRANDED CABLE UV COATED ANID GREEN IN COLOR,

ALL POLE MOUNTED DEVICES, ICLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO: (ANTENNA MOUNTS AND ANTENNAS, MOUNTPYG BRACKETS, CABINETS) SHALL BE CONNECTED TO THE
‘TGS USING COMPRESSION TYPE, 2HOLE COHINECTOR LUGS.

‘CONNECTOR LUGS MUST ATTACH TO THE BUS BAR WITH TWO HOLES FACING UP AND OUT WITH THE BOLT HEADS ARE ON THE BACK SIDE OF THE BUS BAR.
‘STACKING OF CONNECTOR LUGSIS PROITED.

PLACEMENT OF CONNECTOR LUGS ON FRONT ANID REAR FACE OF GROUNDING BAR IS PERMITTED.

[ANY HOOFICATIONS TO THE CONNECTOR LUGS IS PROHIBITED INGLUCING BUT NOT LIMITED TO GRINDING, CUTTING OR BENDING.

‘CONNECTOR LUGS l1UST BE PLACED WITH EVEN SPACIIIG AND MUST NOT COWE IN CONTACT WH ANOTHER CONVEGTOR LUG.

‘SLOTTED SIDE OF THE CONNEGTOR LUG SHOULD BE PLACED ON THE SLOTTED SIDE OF THE BUS BAR,

ALL CONECTOR LUGS SHALL HAVE TWO @ COMPRESSIONS PER LUG,

ALL CONHECTOR LUGS MUST HAVE 10-0 APPLEED TO AllY SIDES WHICH CONTACT ANOTHER METAL TO RETARD OMIDATION INGLUDING AID ESPECIALLY THE
‘COHOUCTORIN THE COMPRESSION END,

9. ALL CONNECTOR LUGS MUST BE PROPEFILY SEALED FROM WEATHER WITH HEAT SHRINK.

10, ALL CONNECTOR LUGS MUST BE ATTACHED USING 31" HAROWARE X 2PER EACH LUG AND IN THE FOLLOWING MANNER:

exepeee

4. FLATWASHER ON! THE BACKSIDE OF THE LUG

Bb. BOLTTHAU THE LUG HOLE FaciwG OUTWARD.

©. FLAT WASHER ON THE FRONT SIDE OF THE LUG.

6. LOCK WASHER ON THE FRONT SIDE OF THE FLAT WASHER,

(2) NUTON THE BOLT, TURNED TO "THAEE THREADS SHOVING AT MANIUN TORQUE”

f ALLNUTS OW CONNECTOR BOLTS MUST BE TIGHTENED GO THAT THE LOCK WASHERS
[ARE COMPLETELY COMPRESSED,

NO MECHANICAL CONNECTIONS AE ACCEPTABLE EXCEPT INTHE EVENT OF MECHANICAL FITTINGS BEING A INTEGRAL PART OF THE PRODUCT FROM THE FACTORY. Ie
(CHARLES CABIIET # 6 GROUND LUGS ON EACH SIDE OF THE CABWET.

EXCESS WELDS ON CADVELDS MUST BE GROUND OFF TO A SAFE TAPER.

[ALL EXPOSED MIETALLIC SURFACES MUST BE SPRAYED WH & PROTECTIVE COATING SUCH AS ZINCAT.

[ALL FITTINGS EXPOSEO TO ENVIRONMENT MUST BE SEALED WITH SHRINK WRAP,

1. EXPOSED “SHIERS" CONDUCTORS ARE PROMIBITED IF IN EXCESS OF 1/16TH OF AN RICH,

PART 3~ TESTING AND DOCUMENTATION.

Sa TESTING
A. SOHMSTO GROUND IS REQUIRED FOR ACCEPTANICE. IF S OHMS CANNOT BE MET WITH ABOVE REQUIREMENTS, ADDITIONAL GROUND RODS WILL BE ADDED TO THE FIELD
UNTIL OHISTS ACHIEVED.
‘32.D00UMENTATION
|A. PHOTOS OF THE TESTS ARE REQUIRED AS WELL AS TEST RESULTS IY FORMAL OOCUMENT FORMAT. SUBMIT RESULT OF TEST TO CC CONSTRUCTION MANAGER PRIOR TO
FINAL WALKTHROUGH. SUBIIT ALL PHOTOS AND TESTS WITH CLOSEOUT PACKAGE PER SECTION 017700 - CLOSEOUT PROCEDURES AN REQUIRED DOCUMENTS
ONE-LINE DIAGRAM SCALE: NTS | 4 | GROUNDING SPECIFICATIONS SCALE: NTS ] 12

ELEC, SMART METER /
DISCONNECT

1. ss soun

+e} #2 Treo sou

S)90IA.x COPPER
CLAD STEEL GROUNO
ROD AND TEST WELL,

TYP, - SEE DETAL 9)

THiS SHEET

EQUIPMENT GROUNDING SCHEMATIC DETAIL SCALE: NTS | 19

‘RECORD DRAWINGS ISSUE DATE:
o7/1472023,

Kimley»Horn

23878 ENEASSY PARKWAY, SUITE 200
‘AKRON, OH 44333
PHONE: (26) 808-7778
‘WWW KIULEY-HORN.COM

‘THIS DRAWING IS COPYRIGHTED AND IS,
‘THE SOLE PROPERTY OF THE OWNER. ITIS.
PROOUCED SOLELY FOR USE BY THE
‘OWNER AND ITS APFLIATES.
REPRODUCTION OF USE OF THIS DRAWING
ANDIOR THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN
IT1S FORBIDDEN WITHOUT THE WRITTEN.
PERNIGGION OF THE OWNER,

RELEASE
DATE SUBMITTAL
REVISIONS:
INo[ Dare: ‘COMMENT
TSSUED FOR
4 [p7msi2023] ConstaUCTION
ISSUED FO

[osiesi2025] GGNSTRUGTION

8 [0310772028|16sUED FOR REVIEW

PROJECT NAME,

VCA2 SAN MATEO BRIDGE Hi

|EADEND

‘GROWN NODE ID NUMBER

CA_SF_SANMATEO_151

NODE ADDRESS:

1001 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO, CA 94403

HUB NAME

SAN MATEO BRIDGE HEADEND

[KH voB NuMBER _| [INHOUSE

ORAWNEY: 1S

KHCLE-35076
CHECKED BY: TOR
‘SHEET TITLE,
LECTRICAL DETAILS
sheeTnumpen| [PAGE
D1.2 6 OF8

PLOTSCALE: 151 @ 24306, 12 @ 11%"

318 of 682


--- page 319 ---
"moat eae

SS) ee gnome cae ate Sm Mao E-SMSE EE ~ Cnn Deg. DO y

LUMINAIRES CONTROLLED BY INDIVIDUAL PHOTOCELLS.
F NOT LOCATED
‘SERVICE FUSE RATED AT 30A USED FOR CALCULATIONS, LINE Loap i f CROWN
2 POLE MOUNTED ELECTRICAL SERVICE CASTLE
@ EXISTING LUMINAIRE POINT
CROWN CASTLE
One PARC PLACE. STE, 00
(#] LUMINAIRE W/ CELLULAR EQUIPMENT () CITY SERVICE BOX @sawe — |(1) 10AWG| | summicnsesce
ECORO DRAVANGS ISSUE DATE
oN
# CIRCUIT NUMBER UNDERGROUND ELECTRICAL SERVICE (FORENTIRE CRCUITY
1 PULL BOX (NO SPLICE)
(HH) HAND-HOLE (NO PULL BOX) /
Electrical Engineer's Design Certification
|, Dustin James Colwell, hereby declare the entire circuit (from the point of power connection to the
last connected asset) involved has been properly surveyed by non-destructive means and all UPGRADE CONDUCTORS
apparent loads, including any non-streetlight loads, are documented here within. Non-destructive TO #1 AWG. (TYP.)
means includes, but is not limited to, the following actions where demolition or damage will not be SEE CONDUCTOR NOTES
incurred: circuit tracing, opening handholes/pull boxes, recording wire/fuse sizes, and penetrating
rod. | also declare that the proposed electrical design is consistent with the City of San Mateo's sole
current design standards for wireless facilities in the public Right-of-Way. Kimley »Horn
spree _CLLon Celuidl pate 07/14/2023 + sesenmsnyrguny sec
von: sors
R.E.E #22100 Exp 09/30/23 E WW KIMLEY-HORN.COM
B
2 THIS DRAWING IS COPYRIGHTED AND IS:
$ mroauceD Soy Fon USE BY THE,
CONDUCTOR UPGRADE NOTES: a | 23" REPRODUCTION On UBe Gers ORAWING
: a n
- VERIFY CONDUCTOR UPGRADES MEET ALL APPLICABLE CODES 2 imieroneiooen wmiout me WaT
INCLUDING NEC AND NESC SL - 3055 -
- VERIFY CONDUCTOR UPGRADES AND EXISTING CONDUITS MEET a Sun
APPLICABLE CONDUIT FILL CALCULATION REQUIREMENTS
- CONTACT ENGINEER IF CONDUCTOR UPGRADES DO NOT MEET
APPLICABLE CODE REQUIREMENTS BASED ON EXISTING CONDITIONS
AND EXISTING CONDUIT SIZING. UPGRADES WILL NEED TO BE
RE-DESIGNED.,
- CONTACT ENGINEER IF EXISTING CONDUIT BLOCKAGE/BREAKAGE —
PREVENTS CONDUCTOR UPGRADE AS SHOWN. UPGRADES WILL NEED nol bare coument
TO BE REDESIGNED 7 feazoaa| SSUEDFOR
0 foaoaraoas ISSUED
@ [oap7i2e29|I6suED Fon REVEW
PROJECT NAME
VCA2 SAN MATEO BRIDGE HEADEND
‘GROWN NODE IO NUMBER
LUMINAIRES CONTROLLED BY INDIVIDUAL PHOTOCELLS CA SF SANMATEO_151
* POINT OF SERVICE NOT LOCATED ~~ -
**TYPICAL SERVICE FUSE RATED AT 30A USED FOR CALCULATIONS
NODE ADDRESS
| | CELLULAR | EXISTING |PROPOSED AMPERAGE CUMULATIVE 1001 BERMUDA DR
eR OMTION CIRCUIT # | VOLTAGE POLE ID | EQUIPMENT | LUMINAIRE | LUMINAIRE} | VOLTAGE DROP ‘SAN MATEO, CA 94403
WATTAGE (W) (w) EXISTING | PROPOSED | EXISTING | PROPOSED HUB NAME
3008 T 1500 38 SAN MATEO BRIDGE HEADEND:
soe 58 pervoe noween | [innovee
351 3 KHCLE-a5076  ORAWNBY. Ts
5:
1001 Bermuda Dr 4 240 3053 29 1.57 7.82 0.37% 2.96% SHEET TITLE
3054 29 CITY CIRCUIT
3055 29 DIAGRAM
3056 29 N
3057 29 saeernumeen] [Pace
3088 *8 D D1.3 7 OF8
CITY CIRCUIT DIAGRAM SCALE:NTS | 1 PLOT SCALE: 1:1 @ 24'x86", 1:2 @ 11x17"

319 of 682


--- page 320 ---
so

SS) ee gnome cae ate Sm Mao E-SMSE EE ~ Cnn Deg. DO y

‘TRANSFORMER-RATED SMARTPOLE

<> (METER DISCONNECT BOX Ea

WEIGHT: 40.0 LBS
VOLUME: 0.48 CF

DIMENSIONS: 4.4" x 8.7" x 21.5"

Streetmacro 6705

i ie
a

CROWN
CASTLE

CROWN CASTLE
CROWN cASTU

(ONE PARK PLACE, STE. 200,
DUBLIN, CA 88568

‘RECORD DRAWINGS ISSUE DATE:
o7/1472023,

Kimley»Horn

23878 ENEASSY PARKWAY, SUITE 200
‘AKRON, OH 44333
PHONE: (26) 808-7778
‘WWW KIULEY-HORN.COM

DIMENSIONS: 5.9" x 7.9" x 14.4"
WEIGHT: 31.0 LBS
VOLUME: 0.39 CF

ANTENNA / RADIO SPEC (ERICSSON - STREETMACRO 6705) SCALE: NTS | 10

‘THIS DRAWING IS COPYRIGHTED AND IS,
‘THE SOLE PROPERTY OF THE OWNER, ITIS

PERNIGGION OF THE OWNER,

EQUIPMENT INVENTORY TABLE

SCALE: NTS | 12

METER SPEC. (TESCO - CAT. 703) SCALE: NTS | 14
DEPTH WIDTH HEIGHT | VOLUME TOTAL
MANUFACTURER |MODEL (in) (in) (IN) (cr) QUANTITY VOLUME (CF)
ERICSSON |STREETMACRO 6705 5.9 79 14.4 0.39 3 1.17
NYM. SRB 9 2.9 5.8 0.09 3 0.26
NYM BKT-ERIC6701/6705 5.3 5.3 18 0.03 3 0.09
TESCO CAT. 703 44 87 215 0.48, 1 0.48
N/A 2x4 GALV. STEEL TUBE 2 4 20 0.09 1 0.09
SUM 2.08

RELEASE
DATE SUBMITTAL
REVISIONS:
INo[ Dare: ‘COMMENT
7 [oraizoa5|

TSSUED FOR
‘CONSTRUCTION
9 [osioa2025) SoNSTRUGTION
8 [0310772028|16sUED FOR REVIEW

PROJECT NAME,
\VCA2 SAN MATEO BRIDGE HEADEND.

‘GROWN NODE IO NUMBER
CA_SF_SANMATEO_151

NODE ADDRESS:

1001 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO, CA 94403

HUB NAME
SAN MATEO BRIDGE HEADEND

[KH voB NuMBER _| [INHOUSE

KHCLE-35076 RAW EV. TS
CHECKED BY: TOR

‘SHEET TITLE:

QUIPMENT
SPECIFICATIONS

sHeeTNumBeR] [Pace

D1.4 8 OF 8

PLOTSCALE: 151 @ 24306, 12 @ 11%"

320 of 682


--- page 321 ---
Photosimulations 
 
321 of 682

--- page 322 ---
EXISTING VIEW
CLOSE UP
CA_SF_SANMATEO_151
1001 BERMUDA DR.
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
PHOTO SIMULATION
View 1
322 of 682

--- page 323 ---
EXISTING VIEW
CLOSE UP
CA_SF_SANMATEO_151
1001 BERMUDA DR.
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
PHOTO SIMULATION
View 2
323 of 682

--- page 324 ---
1
2
CA_SF_SANMATEO_151
1001 BERMUDA DR.
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
PHOTO SIMULATION
Aerial View
324 of 682

--- page 325 ---
Notification Affidavits 
 
325 of 682

--- page 326 ---
13520 Scarsdale Way 
 
 
Office: (760) 295-3951 
 
 
   info@titleprois.com
San Diego, CA 92128 
 
 
Fax: (760) 295-4038 
 
 
   www.titleprois.com
DECLARATION OF SERVICE BY MAIL
COMPANY NAME: 
KIMLEY-HORN
CUSTOMER NAME: 
TAYLOR BLANFORD
COMPANY ADDRESS: 
1300 CLAY ST, STE 325, OAKLAND, CA 94612
SITE: 
  
 
SAN MATEO SITE 151
SITE ADDRESS:  
Nearest Address: 1001 BERMUDA DR, San Mateo, CA 94403
DECLARATION:
I, Sean Wilson, Of, Title Pro Information Systems, do hereby declare that on, JULY 26TH, 2023, I served by 
mail upon each
  OCCUPANT & OWNER WITHIN THE MAILING LIST PROVIDED BY THE CLIENT, of the 
above-designated premises/subject property area, by depositing in the United States Mail, with postage 
fully prepaid, copy of the Application Submittal for Wireless Facility Notification, a copy of which is 
attached hereto, giving the name(s) of the notice giver, site address of the subject property where the 
business is to be conducted, addressed to the Owner AND/OR Occupant for each of the following 
addresses: (see attached sheet(s)). (Note: Depending on the noticing requirements, we may have 
removed Duplicate Property Owners, Owner/Occupants from applicable address lists to prevent multiple 
notification.)
I declare under the penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct.
Executed at San Diego, California, this 26TH, day of JULY, 2023 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature  
326 of 682

--- page 327 ---
Page 1 of 2
Application Submittal for Wireless Facility 
July
, 2023.
Applicant: 
Crown Castle 
Taylor Blanford
Permitting Agent
1300 Clay Street, Suite 325, Oakland, CA 94612
Taylor.Blanford@kimley-horn.com
(510) 210-3221
CC: northerncaliforniapubliccomments@crowncastle.com
(925) 701-7210
Dear Property Owner or Resident:
Crown Castle has submitted an application for a small wireless facility to be located in the right-of-way to the City 
of San Mateo Public Works Department.
San Mateo City Municipal Code
(SMMC) Section 17.10.050(d
to all property owners and residents within a 
500' radius of the proposed project site within five (5) calendar days of submission of the application to the City.
wireless facility
-powered, compact device used to provide wireless cellular service. The
proposed small wireless facility would be installed on pole 3009 at the location below.
Location:
Nearest Address: 1001 BERMUDA DR, San Mateo, CA 94403
The location was identified as the least intrusive location that meets specific wireless network coverage needs. 
In this case, the facility is proposed to be placed on an existing streetlight pole as shown on the last page of this 
notice. This small wireless facility will not require installation of any street-level equipment, such as data cabinets 
or electrical meter pedestals. If the application is approved by the City of San Mateo, installation is anticipated to 
begin Fall, 2023.
For information on the equipment or technical aspects of this installation, contact the Applicant listed at the top of 
this letter. Comments regarding aspects of the project other than radio frequency emissions, aesthetics, or 
requests for updates may be submitted to the Applicant within thirty (30) calendar days of this notice, July 18, 
2023. Comments may be submitted via mail or email to the addresses listed for the Applicant.
Concerns related to the safety of radio frequency emissions should be directed to the Federal Communications 
Commission (FCC) Office of Engineering and Technology located at 445 12th St SW, Washington, DC, 20554. 
The FCC may also be reached at 1 (888) CALL-FCC. The FCC does not allow appeals when based solely on 
the environmental effects from radio frequency emissions that are compliant with applicable FCC regulations and 
guidelines.
Pursuant to US Code Title 47 section 332(c)(7)(B)(i)(II), local governments may not prohibit or have the effect of 
prohibiting the provision of cellular services in the municipalities they govern.
FCC rules do allow local governments to adopt design guidelines to guide infrastructure companies in the 
aesthetic design of their facilities. The City of San Mateo has done so and these guidelines are codified in the 
Right-of-
available at the following website:
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure
327 of 682

--- page 328 ---
Page 2 of 2 
Comments regarding compliance with the SMMC and corresponding Design Standards, should be emailed or 
mailed to the Comments Address listed below. 
Comments Address:  
City of San Mateo 
Attn: Public Works  Permitting Division 
RE Wireless Comments 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403 
Email: pwencroachment@cityofsanmateo.org 
Members of the public interested in receiving information on application decisions should sign up for 
notifications on the Small Cell Infrastructure webpage available at the following website, as no additional 
noticing will be provided: 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure.  
Decisions regarding this project may be appealed with in five (5) calendar days of the issuance of the Notice of 
Decision that will be posted on the webpage listed above. Appeals may be made in accordance with SMMC 
Section 17.10.070. Only persons who are the property owner or resident within 500' of the project site may 
appeal the decision by the Director to approve or deny an application for a wireless permit.  
Appeals can be made by filing a protest with the Secretary of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
(SIC) within five (5) calendar days of the issuance of the Notice of Decision. Protests can be filed with Cookie 
Kaplan, Secretary of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, Ryan Brunmeier, Assistant Engineer, City 
of San Mateo, 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403 or emailed to rbrunmeier@cityofsanmateo.org. If 
mailed, the postmark must be before the five (5) days or it will not be considered. 
Protests based solely on environmental effects from radio frequency emissions that are compliant with 
applicable FCC regulations and guidelines are not allowed by federal law. Anyone submitting a protest is 
encouraged to attend the SIC meeting when the protest is agendized. 
Location of Proposed Facility 
 
Photo Simulation of Proposed Facility 
 
328 of 682

--- page 329 ---
PROPERTY APN
RECIPIENT
ADDRESS
CITY
STATE ZIP CODE
35340220
THE OCCUPANT
1001 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1508
35340220
THE OCCUPANT
1001 BERMUDA DR STE 1
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1508
35354010
THE OCCUPANT
1004 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1553
35354320
THE OCCUPANT
1005 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1528
35355010
THE OCCUPANT
1006 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1529
35354020
THE OCCUPANT
1010 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1553
35354310
THE OCCUPANT
1011 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1528
35355020
THE OCCUPANT
1012 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1529
35354030
THE OCCUPANT
1016 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1553
35354300
THE OCCUPANT
1017 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1528
35355030
THE OCCUPANT
1018 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1529
35354040
THE OCCUPANT
1022 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1553
35354290
THE OCCUPANT
1023 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1528
35354290
THE OCCUPANT
1023 ROSSI WAY UNIT B
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1528
35355040
THE OCCUPANT
1024 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1529
35354050
THE OCCUPANT
1028 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1553
35354280
THE OCCUPANT
1029 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1528
35355050
THE OCCUPANT
1030 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1529
35354060
THE OCCUPANT
1034 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1553
35354270
THE OCCUPANT
1035 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1528
35355060
THE OCCUPANT
1036 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1529
35354070
THE OCCUPANT
1040 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1553
35354260
THE OCCUPANT
1041 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1528
35354250
THE OCCUPANT
1043 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1528
35354080
THE OCCUPANT
1046 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1553
35354090
THE OCCUPANT
1052 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1553
35340080
THE OCCUPANT
1075 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1508
35340220
THE OCCUPANT
1146 19TH AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1541
35351020
THE OCCUPANT
2008 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1539
35351020
THE OCCUPANT
2008 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1539
35353250
THE OCCUPANT
2009 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1538
35353020
THE OCCUPANT
2010 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1537
35351250
THE OCCUPANT
2011 POTOMAC WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1417
35354340
THE OCCUPANT
2011 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1536
35351030
THE OCCUPANT
2016 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1539
35353240
THE OCCUPANT
2017 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1538
35353030
THE OCCUPANT
2018 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1537
35351240
THE OCCUPANT
2019 POTOMAC WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1417
35354330
THE OCCUPANT
2019 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1536
35351040
THE OCCUPANT
2024 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1539
35353230
THE OCCUPANT
2025 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1538
35353040
THE OCCUPANT
2026 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1537
35351230
THE OCCUPANT
2027 POTOMAC WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1417
35351050
THE OCCUPANT
2032 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1539
35353220
THE OCCUPANT
2033 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1538
35353050
THE OCCUPANT
2034 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1537
35351220
THE OCCUPANT
2035 POTOMAC WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1417
35353060
THE OCCUPANT
2040 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1537
35351060
THE OCCUPANT
2040 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1539
35353210
THE OCCUPANT
2041 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1538
35351070
THE OCCUPANT
2048 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1539
35353200
THE OCCUPANT
2049 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1538
35353070
THE OCCUPANT
2050 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1537
329 of 682

--- page 330 ---
35355270
THE OCCUPANT
2051 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1545
35353190
THE OCCUPANT
2057 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1538
35353080
THE OCCUPANT
2058 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1537
35355260
THE OCCUPANT
2059 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1545
35355160
THE OCCUPANT
2065 FIESTA CT
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1558
35353180
THE OCCUPANT
2065 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1538
35353090
THE OCCUPANT
2066 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1537
35355250
THE OCCUPANT
2067 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1545
35355170
THE OCCUPANT
2072 FIESTA CT
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1510
35355180
THE OCCUPANT
2080 FIESTA CT
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1510
35340120
THE OCCUPANT
801 BERMUDA DR APT 1
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1434
35340120
THE OCCUPANT
801 BERMUDA DR APT 2
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1434
35340120
THE OCCUPANT
801 BERMUDA DR APT 3
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1434
35340120
THE OCCUPANT
801 BERMUDA DR APT 4
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1434
35340120
THE OCCUPANT
801 BERMUDA DR APT 5
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1434
35340120
THE OCCUPANT
801 BERMUDA DR APT 6
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1434
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
804 19TH AVE APT 1
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
804 19TH AVE APT 10
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
804 19TH AVE APT 11
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
804 19TH AVE APT 12
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
804 19TH AVE APT 14
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
804 19TH AVE APT 15
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
804 19TH AVE APT 16
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
804 19TH AVE APT 17
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
804 19TH AVE APT 18
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
804 19TH AVE APT 19
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
804 19TH AVE APT 2
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
804 19TH AVE APT 20
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
804 19TH AVE APT 21
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
804 19TH AVE APT 3
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
804 19TH AVE APT 4
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
804 19TH AVE APT 5
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
804 19TH AVE APT 6
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
804 19TH AVE APT 7
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
804 19TH AVE APT 8
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
804 19TH AVE APT 9
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35351260
THE OCCUPANT
804 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1404
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
820 19TH AVE APT 1
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
820 19TH AVE APT 10
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
820 19TH AVE APT 11
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
820 19TH AVE APT 12
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
820 19TH AVE APT 14
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
820 19TH AVE APT 15
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
820 19TH AVE APT 16
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
820 19TH AVE APT 17
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
820 19TH AVE APT 18
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
820 19TH AVE APT 19
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
820 19TH AVE APT 2
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
820 19TH AVE APT 20
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
820 19TH AVE APT 21
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
820 19TH AVE APT 3
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
820 19TH AVE APT 4
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
820 19TH AVE APT 5
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
820 19TH AVE APT 6
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
330 of 682

--- page 331 ---
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
820 19TH AVE APT 7
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
820 19TH AVE APT 8
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
THE OCCUPANT
820 19TH AVE APT 9
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340110
THE OCCUPANT
849 BERMUDA DR APT 1
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1435
35340110
THE OCCUPANT
849 BERMUDA DR APT 2
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1435
35340110
THE OCCUPANT
849 BERMUDA DR APT 3
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1435
35340110
THE OCCUPANT
849 BERMUDA DR APT 4
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1435
35340110
THE OCCUPANT
849 BERMUDA DR APT 5
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1435
35340110
THE OCCUPANT
849 BERMUDA DR APT 6
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1435
35351010
THE OCCUPANT
850 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1404
35353260
THE OCCUPANT
900 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1507
35353010
THE OCCUPANT
926 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403-1507
35354340
AKBAL MURAT
2011 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35351240
AN PEIPEI
2019 POTOMAC WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35355010
ARATA SANDI MICHELLE
1006 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35354250
ARMSTRONG ANDREW S
1043 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35354060
BENTON JOSEPH R JR TR
1034 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35355020
BIGLEY MARK W TR
1012 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35355180
BILLALON THOMAS K TR
2080 FIESTA COURT
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35354310
BORTOLUS REGINA TR
1011 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35353220
CASEY PATRICIA & THOMAS
2033 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35354020
CASTELLANOS VICKY
1010 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35353040
CHINCA ROBERT E
2026 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35353240
CHOW ALEXANDER
2017 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35351250
CHUA BELINDA TR
2011 POTOMAC WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35353190
CORSETTI PATRICK R TR
2057 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35355250
DEMETRIS JAMES M & CARLA M
2067 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35354260
D'OLIVA PETER P
1041 ROSSI WY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35351260
DURKIN TIMOTHY
804 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35351020
EDWARDS RYAN M TR
479 SEQUOIA AVE
REDWOOD CITY
CA
94061
35353210
FENDER APRIL SUE TR
2041 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35351040
FERRIS JESSUP C
2024 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340080
FIESTA GARDENS HOMES ASSN INC
PO BOX 5288
SAN MATEO
CA
94402
35351220
GAVRON ROBERT B TR
1584 FIFTH AVE
BELMONT
CA
94002
35353250
HORIYE ROGER T TR
621 WORTH LANE
SCOTTS VALLEY
CA
95066
35351070
HUA JEFFREY L TR
270 GREENFIELD AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35354070
JAWA VIVEK
1040 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35353030
JERMAINE ALICIA
2018 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35353060
KASHIMA MARK H TR
2040 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35353260
KHOURY ELIAS
900 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340120
KM GROUP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
50 PLEASANT CT
FOSTER CITY
CA
94404
35353010
LIN HSIAO-HUI
3356 SHADY SPRING LANE
MOUNTAIN VIEW
CA
94040
35354040
LINAYAO FLOYD TR
1022 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35353090
MA MARK S
200 PORT ROYAL AVE
FOSTER CITY
CA
94404
35354320
MEE PATRICK
1005 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35351010
MEJIA MARCOS
850 BERMUDA DRIVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35351050
MOLKENBUHR WILLIAM B TR
2032 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35355050
MUSIELAK FRANK & LAURIE
1030 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35355260
NAVES JACLYN A TR
2059 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35355060
NEVARESRUSS DARCIE TR
1036 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35353230
NORYKO MICHAEL W TR
850 OVERLOOK CT
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35355270
OBRIEN JOHN P TR
2051 SULLIVAN STREET
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35354010
PAWLIK KRZYSZTOF M TR
1004 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35353200
PEREZ DANIEL JOSEPH TR
2049 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
331 of 682

--- page 332 ---
35354080
PERRY JOHN R
1046 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340110
RAPOSO PROPERTIES LLC
625 VIRGINIA AVENUE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402
35351230
ROSS JOBY M TR
2027 POTOMAC WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35354290
SALVATO JASON B
1023 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340220
SAN MATEO CITY SCHOOL DIST
1170 CHESS DR
FOSTER CITY
CA
94404
35354270
SCHOENTHALER DANIEL C TR
1035 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35353020
SCHOLER LEAH
2010 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35355160
SID KALVIN TR
2065 FIESTA CT
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35354330
SMITH RAWLING C TR
2019 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35354300
SNAILER ROSS C TR
1017 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35355170
SNYDER THOMAS M
2072 FIESTA CT
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35351060
SU JUSTIN YUNPIN
2040 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35353080
SU KENNETH TCHAI JIM TR
2058 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35355040
SUSOEFF SUSANNA C TR
1962 BIRCH AVE
SAN CARLOS
CA
94070
35353180
TANG STEPHEN
2065 TRINITY ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35354280
TAYLOR JANET TR
1029 ROSSI WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35355030
THUNEN JAMES W TR
2065 TEXAS WAY
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35353050
TIA DEREK
2034 SULLIVAN STREET
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35353070
TIET BENJAMIN
2050 SULLIVAN ST
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35340150
TJ CULLIGAN FAMILY PARTNERS LP
3700 S EL CAMINO REAL
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35351030
UTOUKO INIOBONG A TR
PO BOX 2138
DELANO
CA
93216
35354030
WEI YANG
1016 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35354050
YU KEVIN
1028 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
35354090
ZHANG YAN
1052 BERMUDA DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94403
332 of 682

--- page 333 ---
Log of Comments
Name
Address
Comment
Date
Comment
Response
Date
Response
333 of 682

--- page 334 ---
=
w
a
=
S
=
a

Application



--- page 335 ---
( f ‘CROWN
w CASTLE

Application Submittal for Wireless Facility

Join fOmiapubliccomments@erownc

astle's applicatior
end a notification "fo 4

device used to provide wireless celular 52%
at the location below

* 1001 BERMUDA DR, San Mateo) @AB#403

vipment pola
arding aancechnical €spects of this installation, contact the APP
Submitted Of the project other than radio frequency © of
mitted i302 the Applicant within thirty (80) calendar days °°
“2 mail or email fo the addresses listed forthe AP?!
ety of radio
Of Enginces,“°aUency emissions should be directed lo FU is
da nd Technology located at 446 1ath St SY
“ALL-FCC. The FCC does not allow apt
CY emissions that are compliant wath appl

see 22(6)(7)(8)(i(1), cal govemments may nel PO”
ices in the municipalities they gove
a roa
pee) pi San Mateo has donejgo.and these G0 cite
urements, Conditions of Appraval fo"
NG Website, og ee

® follo

9/3805/6
*Small- Celt nfrastructure

Bian
Asin With the 6 pot
Fa eti9, 2 corenponting Desa” ©

Riv oF Ba,
‘S ~ Permitting Division
ments

‘an Mateo, GA 94403
‘ent@cityafsanmatec O19

'nfrastructure:

; qv
“ec mith in five (6) calendar days,
above Appeals may be made > cf ne

Y owner or resident WHINE Spor
Y an application for awe

eT

nd int

Seren Sustainabiity 26 con Pe
retary ofthe Susialnabiny teats

; emissions thal rd
re us “

d by Yedoral law. AY

ogandaed

Photo Simulatig



--- page 336 ---
( re CROWN ber
~~ CASTLE :

Application Submittal for Wireless Facility
220, 2028,

Avolicant: Crown Castio
Taylor Blanford = Permitting Agent
a Clay Stroet, Suite 325, Oakland, CA 94612

‘aylor.Biantord@kimley-horn, com,
(idj2iogenre Lh

CC northerncalifomiapubliceomments@crowncastie com
(828) 201.7240 8@
Des Propery Owner op Rosidont:
= ted inte rah
Pane ited 3s facility to be loca Las
iN 4 application for a smal wireless eye
foe Works Department Ae, part of Grown Castle's application Se" nd
rior) requires that we send a notification "0 all propery OWT

ission ofthe
Project site” within five (6) calendar days of submssion

: rl wreess facitys cote
Popoted smal low. wide wireless

Wireloe, (9,2 /0%-powered, compact device used to pro nh
Location facility would be installed ‘on pole 3009 at the location bel

Nearest Address: 1001 BERMUDA DR, San Mateo, CA 54409
‘oie te

Was ide specific wireless MENT nt
m8, he ate a8 the feast intrusive location that mee pclae oH
een tS Small Proposed to be placed on an existing reet-level ion
anette eae ey wilnat aga nstaiation of ay tof an Mae!

1 2023 1e application is approve
Fer
‘na eTaton on

She equipment ort tallation, cont

esa COEDS rege technical aspects ofthis instal a

223 Uodateg, ling aspects: ofthe project other than radio oil ays

Cerwrnis may eYP88¥mited tothe Applicant within tity (30) BEN Sle

Reeens, Maybe submitted via mailer mailto the addresses IS saree ES
tol ch

Faraone cof a frequency emissions should pk ae ie

ngineer local a:
Fadio frequency emissions that are com?! E,

arose

may

FOVigion gy tz S8Ction 3: I), ocal governments 4
Of celiaar sevice te mcbanies they gover wroct ia

80vernmen infrastoct me
1 Deon Sh otthe fac to adopt design guidelines to U0 TEES quent yes”
“eat Sera The City of San Mateo has done $0 94 Teryjeess
“ Shey, Sr ae Reaireent, ‘Conditions of APP

seven?

tact the APPIN cs

#7,
Fy
Z5
8;
fe

i —_*° °'9/3865/Small-CelLinfrastructure

ie
thee


--- page 337 ---
Prior Permits and Approvals 
 
337 of 682

--- page 338 ---
verizon’

One Verizon Way
Basking Ridge, NJ 07920

VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.
ASSISTANT SECRETARY’S CERTIFICATE
I, Brandon N. Egren, do hereby certify that I am a duly elected, qualified and acting Assistant
Secretary of Verizon Communications Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Verizon”), and as such I am

authorized to execute this certificate. In such capacity, I further certify that:

Verizon Wireless Network Procurement LP (“VZW Network”) is a Delaware limited
partnership and is indirectly wholly owned by Verizon.

Cellco Partnership (“Cellco”’) is a Delaware general partnership and is indirectly wholly
owned by Verizon.

Straight Path Spectrum, LLC (“Straight Path”) is a Delaware limited liability company
and is directly wholly owned by Verizon.

GTE Mobilnet of Califormia Limited Partnership (“GTEM of California”) is a California
limited partnership and is indirectly wholly owned by Verizon.

VZW Network, Cellco, Straight Path and GTEM of Califomia are affiliates of Verizon.

Dated: September 21, 2022

Brouccbo Eyre

Brandon N. Egren
Assistant Secretary

2904559

338 of 682


--- page 339 ---
Wireless Telecommunications Bureau
RADIO STATION AUTHORIZATION 
LICENSEE:
ATTN: LICENSING MANAGER
STRAIGHT PATH SPECTRUM, LLC
5055 NORTH POINT PKWY, NP2NE NETWORK ENGINEERING
ALPHARETTA, GA 30022
STRAIGHT PATH SPECTRUM, LLC
Waivers/Conditions:
Federal Communications Commission
FCC Registration Number (FRN): 0012576435
REFERENCE COPY
This is not an official FCC license. It is a record of public information contained in the FCC's licensing database on the date that this reference 
copy was generated. In cases where FCC rules require the presentation, posting, or display of an FCC license, this document may not be used 
in place of an official FCC license.
Call Sign
File Number
Radio Service
WRAZ876
 0008225993
UU - Upper Microwave Flexible Use 
Service
Grant Date
07-24-2018
Effective Date
07-24-2018
Expiration Date
08-10-2028
Print Date
07-25-2018
Market Number
BTA404
Channel Block
L1
Sub-Market Designator
3
Market Name
San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose
1st Build-out Date
2nd Build-out Date
06-01-2024
3rd Build-out Date
4th Build-out Date
Special Condition for AU/name change (6/4/2016): Grant of the request to update licensee name is conditioned on it not 
reflecting an assignment or transfer of control (see Rule 1.948); if an assignment or transfer occurred without proper 
notification or FCC approval, the grant is void and the station is licensed under the prior name. 
The authority granted herein is subject to any future applicable international frequency coordination agreements between the 
administrations of the United State and Canada.
Conditions:
Pursuant to §309(h) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. §309(h), this license is subject to the 
following conditions:  This license shall not vest in the licensee any right to operate the station nor any right in the use of the 
frequencies designated in the license beyond the term thereof nor in any other manner than authorized herein.  Neither the 
license nor the right granted thereunder shall be assigned or otherwise transferred in violation of the Communications Act of 
1934, as amended.  See 47 U.S.C. § 310(d).  This license is subject in terms to the right of use or control conferred by §706 of 
the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.  See 47 U.S.C. §606.
This license may not authorize operation throughout the entire geographic area or spectrum identified on the hardcopy version. 
To view the specific geographic area and spectrum authorized by this license, refer to the Spectrum and Market Area information 
under the Market Tab of the license record in the Universal Licensing System (ULS).  To view the license record, go to the ULS 
homepage at http://wireless.fcc.gov/uls/index.htm?job=home and select License Search .  Follow the instructions on how to 
search for license information.
FCC 601-MB
August 2021
Page 1 of 2
339 of 682

--- page 340 ---
Page 2 of 2
Market
Market Name
Buildout Deadline
Buildout Notification
Status
700 MHz Relicensed Area Information:
FCC 601-MB
August 2021
Licensee Name: STRAIGHT PATH SPECTRUM, LLC
Call Sign: WRAZ876
File Number: 0008225993
Print Date: 07-25-2018
340 of 682

--- page 341 ---
Wireless Telecommunications Bureau
RADIO STATION AUTHORIZATION 
LICENSEE:
ATTN: LICENSING MANAGER
STRAIGHT PATH SPECTRUM, LLC
5055 NORTH POINT PKWY, NP2NE NETWORK ENGINEERING
ALPHARETTA, GA 30022
STRAIGHT PATH SPECTRUM, LLC
Waivers/Conditions:
Federal Communications Commission
FCC Registration Number (FRN): 0012576435
REFERENCE COPY
This is not an official FCC license. It is a record of public information contained in the FCC's licensing database on the date that this reference 
copy was generated. In cases where FCC rules require the presentation, posting, or display of an FCC license, this document may not be used 
in place of an official FCC license.
Call Sign
File Number
Radio Service
WRAZ877
 0008225878
UU - Upper Microwave Flexible Use 
Service
Grant Date
07-24-2018
Effective Date
07-24-2018
Expiration Date
08-10-2028
Print Date
07-25-2018
Market Number
BTA404
Channel Block
L2
Sub-Market Designator
3
Market Name
San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose
1st Build-out Date
2nd Build-out Date
06-01-2024
3rd Build-out Date
4th Build-out Date
Special Condition for AU/name change (6/4/2016): Grant of the request to update licensee name is conditioned on it not 
reflecting an assignment or transfer of control (see Rule 1.948); if an assignment or transfer occurred without proper 
notification or FCC approval, the grant is void and the station is licensed under the prior name. 
The authority granted herein is subject to any future applicable international frequency coordination agreements between the 
administrations of the United State and Canada.
Conditions:
Pursuant to §309(h) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. §309(h), this license is subject to the 
following conditions:  This license shall not vest in the licensee any right to operate the station nor any right in the use of the 
frequencies designated in the license beyond the term thereof nor in any other manner than authorized herein.  Neither the 
license nor the right granted thereunder shall be assigned or otherwise transferred in violation of the Communications Act of 
1934, as amended.  See 47 U.S.C. § 310(d).  This license is subject in terms to the right of use or control conferred by §706 of 
the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.  See 47 U.S.C. §606.
This license may not authorize operation throughout the entire geographic area or spectrum identified on the hardcopy version. 
To view the specific geographic area and spectrum authorized by this license, refer to the Spectrum and Market Area information 
under the Market Tab of the license record in the Universal Licensing System (ULS).  To view the license record, go to the ULS 
homepage at http://wireless.fcc.gov/uls/index.htm?job=home and select License Search .  Follow the instructions on how to 
search for license information.
FCC 601-MB
August 2021
Page 1 of 2
341 of 682

--- page 342 ---
Page 2 of 2
Market
Market Name
Buildout Deadline
Buildout Notification
Status
700 MHz Relicensed Area Information:
FCC 601-MB
August 2021
Licensee Name: STRAIGHT PATH SPECTRUM, LLC
Call Sign: WRAZ877
File Number: 0008225878
Print Date: 07-25-2018
342 of 682

--- page 343 ---
06/21/2022
City of San Mateo
Tracy Scramaglia
Public Works
330 West 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
RE: FAA Filing for Wireless Facilities
Dear City of San Mateo Public Works,
Crown Castle’s proposed Small Wireless Communication Facilities do not require the completion and
filing of FAA Form 7460 due to this project not meeting the requirements of the Federal Aviation Code Title 14,
Chapter 1, Subchapter E, Part 77. Crown Castle’s proposed Small Wireless Communication Facilities do not meet
the FAA requirements for facilities that must file with the FAA which is listed below.
§ 77.9 — Any person/organization who intends to sponsor any of the following construction or
alterations must notify the Administrator of the FAA:
 
Any construction or alteration exceeding 200 ft above ground level
 
Any construction or alteration
o 
within 20,000 ft of a public use or military airport which exceeds a 100:1 surface from any point on
the runway of each airport with at least one runway more than 3,200 ft.
o 
within 10,000 ft of a public use or military airport which exceeds a 50:1 surface from any point on
the runway of each airport with its longest runway no more than 3,200 ft.
o 
within 5,000 ft of a public use heliport which exceeds a 25:1 surface
o 
Any highway, railroad or other traverse way whose prescribed adjusted height would exceed that
above noted standards
o 
When requested by the FAA
o 
Any construction or alteration located on a public use airport or heliport regardless of height or
location
     Furthermore, the FAA Code states that one does not need to file notice for construction or alteration of any
object that will be shielded by existing structures of a permanent and substantial nature or by natural terrain or
topographic features of equal or greater height and will be located in the congested area of a city, town, or
settlement where the shielded structure will not adversely affect safety in air navigation. All of Crown Castle’s
proposed locations meet this requirement.
343 of 682

--- page 344 ---
Sincerely,
Jason Camarena
Sr. Network Permitting Relations Specialist
1 Park Pl, Suite 300
Dublin, CA 94568
344 of 682

--- page 345 ---
The CPCN was granted in the name of NTC Network, LLC (“NTC”) by the California Public Utilities 
Commission’s (“CPUC”) Decision 99-06-083 on June 24, 1999 (Order starts on page 11 of the Decision 
PDF) and assigned the Utility Number U-6190-C. 
NTC merged into Freedom Telecommunications LLC (“Freedom” - Utility Number U-7110-C) by way of a 
pro forma consolidation.  NTC’s Utility Number was transferred to Freedom as the surviving entity.  The 
CPUC accepted NTC’s Advice Letter No. 6 dated May 12, 2014 and Freedom’s Advice Letter No. 4 dated 
May 12, 2014. 
Freedom was merged into Crown Castle Fiber LLC (“Crown Castle Fiber”) with Freedom’s CPCN and 
Utility Number (U-6910-U) being transferred to Crown Castle Fiber – Freedom’s Advice Letter No. 13 
accepted on November 24, 2018 
345 of 682

--- page 346 ---
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
Governor
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
505 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco CA 94102-3298
EDMUND G. BROWN JR.,
Freedom Telecommunications, Llc
IEC (Corp ID 6190)
Status of Advice Letter 13
As of November 27, 2018
Division Assigned:
Telecommunications
Date Filed:
10-26-2018
Date to Calendar:
10-31-2018
Authorizing Documents:
Disposition:
Effective Date:
Resolution Required:
No
Resolution Number:
None
Commission Meeting Date:
None
CPUC Contact Information:
AL Certificate Contact Information:
Pro Forma Consolidation including assumption of CPCN and Utility Number
Subject:
None
Accepted
11-24-2018
Tamar Finn
tamar.finn@morganlewis.com
202-739-3000
TD_PAL_COORDINATOR@cpuc.ca.gov
415-703-1565
346 of 682

--- page 347 ---
To:  Telecommunications Carrier Filing Advice Letter
From:  Telecommunications Division PAL Coordinator
Subject:  Your Advice Letter Filing
The Telecommunications Division of the California Public Utilities Commission has 
processed your recent Advice Letter (AL) filing and is returning an AL status certificate for 
your records.
The AL status certificate indicates:
       Advice Letter Number
       Name of Filer
       CPUC Corporate ID number of Filer
       Subject of Filing
       Date Filed
       Disposition of Filing (Accepted, Rejected, Withdrawn, etc.)
       Effective Date of Filing
       Other Miscellaneous Information (e.g., Resolution, if applicable, etc.)
The Telecommunications Division has made no changes to your copy of the Advice Letter 
Filing; please review your Advice Letter Filing with the information contained in the AL 
status certificate, and update your Advice Letter and tariff records accordingly.
All inquiries to the California Public Utilities Commission on the status of your Advice 
Letter Filing will be answered by Telecommunications Division staff based on the 
information contained in the Telecommunications Division's PAL database from which the 
AL status certificate is generated. If you have any questions on this matter please contact 
the:
       Telecommunications Division PAL Coordinator at (415) 703-1565, or by 
       e-mail to 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
Governor
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
505 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco CA 94102-3298
EDMUND G. BROWN JR.,
347 of 682

--- page 348 ---
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
Governor
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
505 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco CA 94102-3298
EDMUND G. BROWN JR.,
Ntc Network, Inc
IEC (Corp ID 6190)
Status of Advice Letter 6
As of August 11, 2014
Division Assigned:
Telecommunications
Date Filed:
05-13-2014
Date to Calendar:
05-16-2014
Authorizing Documents:
Disposition:
Effective Date:
Resolution Required:
No
Resolution Number:
None
Commission Meeting Date:
None
CPUC Contact Information:
AL Certificate Contact Information:
Pro Forma consilidation of NTC and Freedom Telecommunications, LLC (U-7110-C)
Subject:
None
Accepted
06-12-2014
Douglas Orvis
douglas.orvis@bingham.com
202-373-6000
TD_PAL_COORDINATOR@cpuc.ca.gov
415-703-1565
348 of 682

--- page 349 ---
To:  Telecommunications Carrier Filing Advice Letter
From:  Telecommunications Division PAL Coordinator
Subject:  Your Advice Letter Filing
The Telecommunications Division of the California Public Utilities Commission has 
processed your recent Advice Letter (AL) filing and is returning an AL status certificate 
for your records.
The AL status certificate indicates:
       Advice Letter Number
       Name of Filer
       CPUC Corporate ID number of Filer
       Subject of Filing
       Date Filed
       Disposition of Filing (Accepted, Rejected, Withdrawn, etc.)
       Effective Date of Filing
       Other Miscellaneous Information (e.g., Resolution, if applicable, etc.)
The Telecommunications Division has made no changes to your copy of the Advice 
Letter Filing; please review your Advice Letter Filing with the information contained in 
the AL status certificate, and update your Advice Letter and tariff records accordingly.
All inquiries to the California Public Utilities Commission on the status of your Advice 
Letter Filing will be answered by Telecommunications Division staff based on the 
information contained in the Telecommunications Division's PAL database from which 
the AL status certificate is generated. If you have any questions on this matter please 
contact the:
       Telecommunications Division PAL Coordinator at (415) 703-1565, or by 
       e-mail to 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
Governor
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
505 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco CA 94102-3298
EDMUND G. BROWN JR.,
349 of 682

--- page 350 ---
Filed By
Advice Letter Number 
Tier Date Filed
Subject
Protested
Date Closed
Effective Date
Days Open
Disposition
Freedom Telecommunications, Inc.
4
1
5/13/2014 Pro Forma Consilidation of Freedom and NTC Network, LLC (U-6190-C)
No
08/11/14
05/13/14
90
Accepted
350 of 682

--- page 351 ---
_ ALJ/TRP/avs | Mailed 6/24/99

Decision 99-06-083 June 24, 1999
BEFORE THE PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

Order Instituting Rulemaking on the wa
Commission’s Own Motion into Competition for Rulemaking 95-04-043 ©
Local Exchange Service. (Filed April 26, 1995)

MAL FILE COPY

-Investigation 95-04-044
Order Instituting Investigation on the (Filed April 26, 1995)
Commission’s Own Motion into Competition for (Petition Nos. 132, 133, 134,
Local Exchange Service. 135, 136, 137,138, 139
140, and 142)

OPINION

By this decision, we grant the petitions for certificates of public
convenience and necessity (CPCN) to operate as facilities-based competitive local
carriers (CLCs) and to offer resold local exchange services within the territories
of Pacific Bell (Pacific), GTE California Incorporated (GTEC), Roseville
Telephone Company (RTC), and Citizens Telephone Company (CTC), for those
petitioners as set forth in Appendix B of this decision, subject to the terms and
conditions included herein. We also grant petitioners’ requests for intrastate
interLocal Access and Transport Areas (interLATA) and intraLATA authority on |

a statewide basis as designated in Appendix B.
I. Background

We initially established rules for entry of facilities-based CLCs in Decision
(D.) 95-07-054. Under those procedures, we processed a group of candidates that
filed petitions for CPCNs by September 1, 1995, and granted authority effective
January 1, 1996, for qualifying CLCs to provide facilities-based competitive local

-1-

351 of 682


--- page 352 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

exchange service in the territories of Pacific and GTEC. We authorized CLCs
seeking to provide resale-based services to begin operations on March 1, 1996.
We further advised prospective entrants that any filings from nonqualifying
CLCs, and any filing for CLC operating authority made after September 1, 1995,
would be treated as standard applications and processed in the normal course of
the Commission's business.

By D.96-12-020, effective January 1, 1997, we instituted quarterly
processing cycles for granting CPCN authority for facilities-based CLCs in order
to streamline the approval process for these particular carriers. Since we had
been processing the environmental impact review required under the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) ona consolidated basis for groups of
qualifying facilities-based CLCs, we concluded in D.96-12-020 that it would be
more efficient and consistent to process other aspects of the CLC filings on a
consolidated basis, as well. Accordingly, we directed that any CLC filing on or
after January 1, 1997, for facilities-based CPCN authority was to make its filing in
the form of a petition to be docketed in Investigation (I.) 95-04-044 that would be
processed quarterly on a consolidated basis. CLCs seeking only resale authority
continued to file individual applications.

On September 24, 1997, we adopted D.97-09-115 in which we extended the
coverage of our adopted rules for local exchange competition to include the
service territories of California’s two midsized local exchange carriers (MSLECs),
RTC and CTC. In that decision, we also authorized candidates seeking CLC
CPCN authority within the MSLECs’ territories to immediately begin making
filings following the applicable entry rules previously adopted in D.95-07-054
and subsequent decisions. Specifically, requests for CLC CPCN authority for
facilities-based service were to be filed in the form of a petition docketed in

1.95-04-044, while resellers have sought authority through applications. In

-2-

352 of 682


--- page 353 ---
~

R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

D.98-01-055, we approved the first group of petitions for facilities-based CPCNs
to offer local exchange service within the MSLEC territories. |

_ Inthis decision, we approve CPCNs for those facilities-based CLCs which
filed petitions during the first quarter of 1999 and satisfied all applicable rules for
certification as established in Rulemaking (R.) 95-04-043. The Petitioners
identified in Appendix B will be authorized to begin offering service upon the
filing of tariffs and compliance with the terms and conditions set forth in this

order.
ll. CEQA Review

We have reviewed the petitions for compliance with CEQA. CEQA
requires the Commission to assess the potential environmental impact of a
project in order that adverse effects are avoided, alternatives are investigated,
and environmental quality is restored or enhanced to the fullest extent possible.
To achieve this objective, Rule 17.1 of the Commission's Rules requires the
proponent of any project subject to Commission approval to submit with the
petition for approval of such project a Proponent’s Environmental Assessment
(PEA). The PEA is used by the Commission to focus on any impacts of the
project which may be of concern, and prepare the Commission’s Initial Study to
determine whether the project needs a Negative Declaration or an Environmental
Impact Report (EIR). |

Based on its assessment of the facilities-based petitions and PEAs, the
Commission staff prepared a Negative Declaration and Initial Study generally
describing the facilities-based Petitioners’ projects and their potential
environmental effects. The Negative Declaration prepared by the Commission
staff is considered a Mitigated Negative Declaration (MND). This means that,

although the initial study identified potentially significant impacts, revisions

353 of 682



--- page 354 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs '

which mitigate the impacts to a less than significant level have been agreed to by
the Petitioners. (Pub. Res. Code § 21080(c)(2):)-

A. Results of the Negative Declaration

On April 29, 1999, the Negative Declaration and Initial Study were sent
to various city and county planning agencies, as well as public libraries
throughout the state for review and comment by May 28, 1999. The Commission
staff prepared a public notice which announced the preparation of the draft
negative declaration, the locations where it was available for review, and the
deadline for written comments. The public notice was advertised in newspapers
throughout the state. The draft Negative Declaration was also submitted to the
Governor's Office of Planning and Research where it was circulated to affected
State agencies for review and comment. | %

Public comments on the draft Negative Declaration were reviewed and
answered, as necessary. The Commission staff then finalized the MND covering
all facilities-based CLC petitions listed in Appendix B. The finalized MND

includes a list of mitigation measures with which the CLCs must comply as a

co

condition of their CPCN authority. The MND includes a Mitigation Monitoring
Plan to ensure that the mitigation measures are followed and implemented as
intended. A copy of the MND is attached to this decision as Apperdix D. We
hereby approve the MND as finalized by staff. Concurrently with our approval
of the MND, we grant the request of the Petitioners in Appendix B for CPCN

authority subject to the terms and conditions set forth in our order below.
B. Required Payment of CEQA Deposit
Commission Decision 97-04-046 stipulates that all petitioners for CLC
authority must submit with their filing an initial payment of $2000 to cover
CEQA costs. The $2000 payment is used to cover the Commission’s costs for
-4-

354 of 682


--- page 355 ---
w

R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

preparing and publishing the Mitigated Negative Declaration for each qualifying
petitioner, as required by CEQA law. As of the date of this order, the

_ Commission has received payment of the required $2000 deposit from each of

the CLCs, as identified in Appendix B.

ill. Review of CPCN Petitions

A. Overview
The CLC petitions have been reviewed for compliance with the
certification-and-entry rules (Rules) adopted in Appendices A and B of
D.95-07-054 and subsequent decisions in R.95-04-043/1.95-04-044. Consistent
with our goal of promoting a competitive market as rapidly as possible, we are
granting authority to all of the facilities-based CLCs that filed during the first
quarter of 1999 and met the Rules. The Rules are intended to protect the public

against unqualified or unscrupulous carriers, while also encouraging and easing

the entry of CLC providers to promote the rapid growth of competition.

Petitioners had to demonstrate that they possessed the requisite

~ managerial qualifications, technical competence, and financial resources to

provide facilities-based local exchange service. Petitioners were also required to
submit proposed tariffs which conform to the consumer protection rules set forth
in Appendix B of D.95-07-054. In response to a notice of tariff deficiencies, the
various petitioners submitted tariff corrections. Except for the outstanding
deficiencies noted in Appendix C, the petitioners’ proposed tariffs are found to
be satisfactory with no deficiencies noted.

As prescribed in Rule 4.B.(1), prospective facilities-based CLCs must
also show that they possess a minimum of $100,000 in cash or cash-equivalent
resources, as defined in the Rules. In.order to demonstrate that they possess the

requisite financial resources, petitioners submitted copies of recent financial

-5-

"355 of 682


--- page 356 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

statements. Because the financial statements contain commercially sensitive
information, the petitioners filed motions for limited protective orders to restrict
the financial statements and related documents containing commercially
sensitive information from public disclosure pursuant to General Order

(GO) 66-C. We grant those motions as prescribed in our order below.

Based upon our review, we conclude that each of the facilities-based
Petitioners identified in Appendix B, has satisfactorily complied with our
certification requirements for entry, including the consumer protection rules set
forth in D.95-07-054, subject to correcting any tariff deficiencies in Appendix C,
payment of the required CEQA deposit, and satisfying the additional conditions
set forth in the ordering paragraphs below. Accordingly, we grant these
Petitioners authority to offer facilities-based and resold local exchange service
within the territories of Pacific and GTEC and, where requested, within the CTC
and RTC territories. We also grant the statewide inter- and intraLATA authority
as requested. |

Pursuant to D.97-09-115, CLC resale authority within the RTC and CTC
territories was authorized to become effective on or after April 1, 1998. As we
stated in D.97-09-115, until the time that tariffed wholesale discount rates are
adopted for RTC and CTC, individual CLCs certificated to resell local service
within the CTC/RTC territories may enter into negotiations with each of the
MSLECs to seek agreement on an interim wholesale discount rate. Disputes over
the terms of resale arrangements may be submitted to the Commission for
arbitration pursuant to the provisions of Section 252(b)(1) of the

Telecommunication Act of 1996 and Commission Resolution ALJ-174.

356 of 682


--- page 357 ---
-

w

R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

B. Motion of DSLnet

DSLnet Communications, LLC ("DSLnet”), attempted to file a petition
(# 142) for CLC local exchange authority on March 31, 1999, with the intention of
being included in the Commission’s quarterly “batch” review of such petitions
filed during the first quarter of 1999. However, DSLnet subsequently learned
that, due to certain confusion surrounding whether DSLnet’s Petition was
complete for purposes of the Commission’s review, the Commission did not
technically accept DSLnet’s petition until April 13, 1999. Asa result, it is now too

late for DSLnet’s Petition to be included in the Commission’s quarterly review

process for such petitions filed during the first quarter of 1999, at least to the

extent DSLnet seeks facilities-based authority.

Nonetheless, in order to allow DSLnet to initiate competitive
telecommunications service in California as soon as possible, DSLnet filed a
motion on May 4, 1999, asking the Commission to: (1) immediately consider the
portion of DSLnet’s Petition seeking authority to resell local exchange
telecommunications services, and (2) consider the portion of DSLnet’s Petition
seeking facilities-based authority in the Commission's quarterly review process
for Petitions filed during the second quarter of 1999.

No party has objected to the motion of DSLnet. We consider the
request of DSLnet for consideration of the resale portion of its petition in the
current quarterly review to be reasonable, under the circumstances and shall
grant it.

Due to the timing requirements relating to the Mitigated Negative
Declaration, DSLnet’s request for facilities-based authority cannot be considered
during the current quarter, but shall be deferred to the subsequent quarterly

review period.

357 of 682


--- page 358 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs
IV. Compliance With Section 311

In compliance with Pub. Util. Code Section 311 (g)(2), this is an
uncontested matter in which the decision grants the relief requested.
Accordingly, pursuant to Pub. Util. Code Section 311(g)(2), the otherwise

applicable 30-day period for public review and comment is being waived.

Findings of Fact

1. Nine petitioners filed requests during the first quarter of 1999 seeking a
CPCN to provide competitive local exchange services in the territories of various
' California incumbent local exchange carriers as set forth in Appendix B.

2. An additional petitioner, DSLnet attempted to file during the first quarter,
but the filing was not actually docketed until April 13, 1999. DSLnet .
subsequently filed an uncontested motion seeking to have its 1equest for CLC
resale authority to be considered as part of the first quarterly group of CLCs.

; 3. No protests to the CLC petitioners have been filed.

4. A hearing is not required.

5. By prior Commission decisions, we authorized competition in providing
local exchange telecommunications service within the service territories of
Pacific, GTEC, RTC, and CTC for carriers meeting specified criteria.

6. The Petitioners listed in Appendix B have demonstrated that each of them
has a minimum of $100,000 in cash or cash equivalent reasonably liquid and
readily available to meet its start-up expenses.

7. Petitioners’ technical experience is demonstrated by supporting
documentation which provides summary biographies of their key management
personnel.

8. Except as noted in Appendix C, Petitioners have each submitted a

complete draft of their initial tariff which complies with the requirements

-8-

358 of 682


--- page 359 ---
_ R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

established by the Commission, including prohibitions on unreasonable deposit
requirements. .

9. Commission D.97-04-046 stipulates that all petitioners for CLC authority
must submit with their filing an initial payment of $2,000 to cover the
Commission’s costs for preparing and publishing the Mitigated Negative
Declaration pursuant to CEQA. .

10. Each of the CLCs, as identified in Appendix B, has submitted the required
$2,000 CEQA deposit as of the date of this order.

11. By D.97-06-107, petitioners or applicants for CLC authority are exempt
from Rule 18(b).

12. Exemption from the provisions of Pub. Util. Code §§ 816-830 has been

granted to other nondominant carriers. (See, e.g., D.86-10-007 and D.88-12-076.)

13. The transfer or encumbrance of property of nondominant carriers has been
exempted from the requirements of Pub. Util. Code § 851 whenever such transfer

or encumbrance serves to secure debt. (See D.85-11-044.)
Conclusions of Law

1. Each of the Petitioners listed in Appendix B has the financial ability to
provide the proposed services, and has made a reasonable showing of technical
expertise in telecommunications.

2. Public convenience and necessity require the competitive local exchange
services to be offered by Petitioners subject to the terms, conditions, and
restrictions set forth below.

3. Each Petitioner is subject to:

a. The current 0.0% surcharge applicable to all intrastate
services except for those excluded by D.94-09-065, as
modified by D.95-02-050, to fund the Universal Lifeline
Telephone Service (P-ub. Util. Code § 879;

Resolution T-16245, December 3, 1998);

-9-

359 of 682



--- page 360 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

b. The current 0.192% surcharge applicable to all intrastate
services except for those excluded by D.94-09-065, as
modified by D.95-02-050, tc fund the California Relay
Service and Communications Devices Fund
(Pub. Util. Code § 2881; Resolution T-16234; D.98-12-073, ,
December 17, 1998);

. The user fee provided in Pub. Util. Code §§ 431-435, which is
0.11% of gross intrastate revenue for the 1998-1999 fiscal
year (Resolution M-4789);

. The current surcharge applicable to all intrastate services
except for those excluded by D.94-09-065, as modified by
D.95-02-050, to fund the California High Cost Fund-A
(Pub. Util. Code § 739.30; D.96-10-066, pp. 3-4, App. B,
Rule 1.C; Resolution T-16242 at 0.0% for 1999,

December 3, 1998);

. The current 3.8% surcharge applicable to all intrastate
services except for those excluded by D.94-09-065, as
modified by D.95-02-050, to fund the California High Cost _
Fund-B (D.96-10-066, p. 191, App. B, Rule 6.F., Resolution
T-16244, December 3, 1998); and,

. The current 0.05% surcharge applicable to all intrastate
services except for those excluded by D.94-09-065, as
modified by D.95-02-050, to fund the California Teleconnect
Fund (D.96-10-066, p. 88, App. B, Rule 8.G, Resolution
T-16165; August 1, 1998).

4. Petitioners should be exempted from Rule 18(b).
5. Petitioners should be exempted from Pub. Util. Code §§ 816-830.
6. Petitioners should be exempted from Pub. Util. Code § 851 when the

transfer or encumbrance serves to secure debt.

7. Each of the Petitioners must agree to, and is required to, carry out any

specific mitigation measures adopted in the Mitigated Negative Declaration

(MND), attached as Appendix D, in compliance with CEQA.

360 of 682


--- page 361 ---
_ R.95-04-043, I.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

8. With the incorporation of the specific mitigation measures in the final
MND, the Petitioners’ proposed projects will not have potentially significant
adverse environmental impacts. | .

9. The Petitioners should be granted CPCNs subject to the terms, conditions,
and restrictions set forth in the order below.

10. Any CLC which does not comply with our rules for local exchange
competition adopted in R.95-04-043 shall be subject to sanctions including, but

not limited to, revocation of its CLC certificate.

ORDER

IT IS ORDERED that:

1. A certificate of public convenience and necessity (CPCN), shall be granted
to each of the Petitioners listed in Appendix B (Petitioners) to permit each of
them to operate as a facilities-based provider of competitive local exchange
telecommunications services, as a reseller of competitive local exchange
telecommunications services within the service territories as noted in
Appendix B and, as a statewide nondominant interexchange carrier (NDIEC), as
noted in Appendix B, contingent on compliance with the terms identified in’
Appendix B and in the remainder of this order.

2. Each Petitioner shall file a written acceptance of the certificate granted in
this proceeding prior to commencing service. .

3. a. The Petitioners are authorized to file with this Commission tariff
schedules for the provision of competitive local exchange, intraLATA (Local |
Access Transport Area) toll and intrastate interLATA services, as applicable. The
Petitioners may not offer these services until tariffs are on file, and until any

applicable deficiencies as noted in Appendix C have been corrected. Petitioners’

-1l1-

361 of 682



--- page 362 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

initial filing shall be made in accordance with General Order (GO) 96-A,
excluding Secticns IV, V, and VI, and shall be effective not less than one day after
approval by the Telecommunications Division. .

b. The Petitioners are competitive local carriers (CLCs). The effectiveness
of each of their future tariffs is subject to the schedules set forth in Decision
(D.) 95-07-054, Appendix A, § 4E.

A. “E. CLCs shall be subject to the following tariff and
contract-filing, revision and service-pricing standards:

“(1) Uniform rate reductions for existing tariff services shall
become effective on five (5) working days’ notice to the
Commission. Customer notification is not required for rate _
decreases.

“(2) Uniform major rate increases for existing tariff services shall
become effective on thirty (30) days’ notice to the
Commission, and shall require bill inserts, or a message on
the bill itself, or first class mail notice to customers at least
30 days in advance of the pending rate increase.

“(3) Uniform minor rate increases, as defined in D.95-07-054,
shall become effective on not less than five (5) working
days’ notice to the Commission. Customer notification is

- not required for such minor rate increases.

“(4) Advice letter filing for new services and for all other types
of tariff revisions, except changes in text not affecting rates
or relocations of text in the tariff schedules, shall become
effective on forty (40) days’ notice to the Commission.

“(5) Advice letter filings revising the text or location of text
material which do not result in an increase in any rate or
charge shall become effective on not less than five (5) days’
notice to the Commission.

“(6) Contracts shall be subject to GO 96-A rules for NDIECs,
except interconnection contracts.

-12-

362 of 682



--- page 363 ---
. R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

“(7) CLCs shall file tariffs in accordance with Public Utilities
(Pub. Util.) Code Section 876.”

4. The Petitioners may deviate from the following provisions of GO 96-A:
(a) paragraph II.C.(1)(b), which requires consecutive sheet numbering and
prohibits the reuse of sheet numbers, and (b) paragraph II.C.(4), which requires
that “a separate sheet or series of sheets should be used for each rule.” Tariff
filings incorporating these deviations shall be subject to the approval of the
Commission’s Telecommunications Division. Tariff filings shall reflect all fees
and surcharges to which Petitioners are subject, as described in Conclusion of
Law 3. Petitioners are also exempt from GO 96-A Section II.G.(1) and (2) which
require service of advice letters on competing and adjacent utilities, unless such
utilities have specifically requested such service.

5. Each Petitioner shall file as part of its initial tariffs, after the effective date
of this order and consistent with Ordering Paragraph 3, a service area map.

6. Prior to initiating service, each Petitioner shall provide the Commission’s
Consumer Services Division with the Petitioner’s designated contact persons for
purposes of resolving consumer complaints and the corresponding telephone
numbers. This information shall be updated if the names or telephone numbers
change or at least annually.

7. Where applicable, each Petitioner shall notify this Commission in writing
of the date local exchange service is first rendered to the public within five days
after service begins. The same procedure shall be followed for the authorized
intraLATA and interLATA services, where applicable.

8. Each Petitioner shall keep its books and records in accordance with

generally accepted accounting principles.

-13-

363 of 682


--- page 364 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

9. Petitioners shall each file an annual report, in compliance with GO 104-A,
on a calendar-year basis using the information-request form developed by the
Commission Staff and contained in Appendix A.

10. Petitioners shall ensure that its employees comply with the provisions of
Pub. Util. Code § 2889.5 regarding solicitation of customers.

11. The certificate granted and the authority to render service under the rates,
charges, and rules authorized will expire if not exercised within 12 months after
the effective date of this order.

12. The corporate identification number assigned to each Petitioner, as set.
forth in Appendix B, shall be included in the caption of all original filings with
this Commission, and in the titles of other pleadings filed in existing cases.

13. Within 60 days of the effective date of this order, each Petitioner shall
comply with Pub. Util. Code § 708, Employee Identification Cards, reflecting its
authority, and notify the Director of the Telecommunications Division in writing
of its compliance. |

14. Each Petitioner is exempted from the provisions of Pub. Util. Code
§§ 816-830. |

15. Each Petitioner is exempted from Pub. Util. Code § 851 for the transfer or

encumbrance of property, whenever such transfer or encumbrance serves to
secure debt. |

16. If any Petitioner is 90 days or more late in filing an annual report or in
remitting the fees listed in Conclusion of Law 4, Telecommunications Division
shall prepare for Commission consideration a resolution that revokes that
Petitioner’s CPCN, unless that Petitioner has received written permission from

Telecommunications Division to file or remit late.

364 of 682


--- page 365 ---
_R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

17. The Final Mitigated Negative Declaration, including the Mitigation

Monitoring Plan, attached as Appendix D of this decision is hereby approved
‘and adopted. -

18. Each of the Petitioners listed in Appendix B shall comply with the
conditions and carry out the mitigation measures outlined in the adopted
Mitigated Negative Declaration.

19. Each of the Petitioners shall provide the Director of the Commission’s
Energy Division with reports on compliance with the conditions and
implementation of mitigation measures under the schedule outlined in the
Mitigated Negative Declaration.

20. Petitioners shall comply with the consumer protection rules set forth in
Appendix B of D.95-07-054.

21. Petitioners shall comply with the Commission’s rules for local exchange
competition in California that are set forth in Appendix C of D.95-12-056,
including the requirement that CLCs shall place customer deposits in a
protected, segregated, interest-bearing escrow account subject to Commission
oversight.

22. Petitioners shall comply with the customer notification and education
rules adopted in D.96-04-049 regarding the passage of calling party number.

23. Petitioners’ respective motions for a limited protective order keeping
designated documents containing financial and other operating information
confidential are granted. Such documents will remain under seal for one year
from today unless a petitioner makes a timely request for extension of
confidential treatment of its documents by filing a separate motion with good
cause shown. . |

24. The motion of DSLnet to have the resale portion of its CLC petition |

considered in the current quarterly cycle is granted.

-15-

365 of 682



--- page 366 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

25. The petitions listed in Appendix B are granted only as set forth above.

This order is effective today.
Dated June 24, 1999, at San Francisco, California.

RICHARD A. BILAS
. President
HENRY M. DUQUE
JOSIAH L. NEEPER
JOEL Z. HYATT
CARL W. WOOD
Commissioners

Certified as a True Copy
--fok the (Priginal

a

Linn, IP. Lt.

“TSS” EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, PISLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
; STATE OF CALIFORNIA

-16-

366 of 682



--- page 367 ---
_ &.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

APPENDIX A
Page 1 of 2

TO: ALL COMPETITIVE LOCAL CARRIERS AND INTEREXCHANGE
TELEPHONE UTILITIES

Article 5 of the Public Utilities Code grants authority to the California Public
Utilities Commission to require all public utilities doing business in California to
file reports as specified by the Commission on the utilities’ California operations.

A specific annual report form has not yet been prescribed for the California
interexchange telephone utilities. However, you are hereby directed to submit an
original and two copies of the information requested in Attachment A no later
than March 315 of the year following the calendar year for which the annual
report is submitted.

Address your report to:
California Public Utilities Commission
Auditing and Compliance Branch, Room 3251
505 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco, CA 94102-3298

Failure to file this information on time may result in a penalty as provided for in
§§ 2107 and 2108 of the Public Utilities Code.

If you have any question concerning this matter, please call (415) 703-1961.

367 of 682


--- page 368 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 2
Information Requested of California Competitive Local Carriers and Interexchange
Telephone Utilities.

To be filed with the California Public Utilities Commission, 505 Van Ness Avenue,
Room 3251, San Francisco, CA 94102-3298, no later than March 31st of the year
following the calendar year for which the annual report is submitted. _

1. Exact legal name and U # of reporting utility.

2. Address.

' 3. Name, title, address, and telephone number of the person to be contacted
concerning the reported information.

- Name and title of the officer having custody of the general books of account
and the address of the office where such books are kept.

. Type of organization (e.g., corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, etc.).
If incorporated, specify:
a. Date of filing articles of incorporation with the Secretary of State.
b. State in which incorporated.

- Commission decision number granting operating authority and the date of
that decision.

7. Date operations were begun.
8. Description of other business activities in which the utility is engaged.

. A list of all affiliated companies and their relationship to the utility. State if
affiliate is a:

a. Regulated public utility.
b. Publicly held corporation.

. Balance sheet as of December 31st of the year for which information is
submitted. .

. Income statement for California operations for the calendar year for which
information is submitted. .

(END OF APPENDIX A)

368 of 682


--- page 369 ---
_&.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

APPENDIX B
Page 1 of 1
LISTING OF PETITIONERS GRANTED CPCN AUTHORITY
Requested Authority
Granted ;
Statewide
Name of Petitioner Petition Utility Local Exchange! Inter /Intra-
No. U-No.  Facilities-based Resale LATA

1. Eagle Communications of 132. U-6182C X X

California, LLC
2. US Data Highway Corp.?, 133 U-6183C X
3. Seren Innovations, Inc. 2 133 U-6184C Xx X X
4. HTC Communications, LLC 2 135 U-6185C X Xx X
5. Network Plus, Inc. 136 U-6186C X Xx X
6. Campuslink Communications 137. ~U-6187C X X X

Systems, Inc. ?
7. XL Networks, Inc. 138 U-6188C Xx Xx Xx
8. Triad Communications 139 U-6189C Xx

Corporation.
9. 140 U-6190C 'X 4 X

10. DSLnet Communications, 142 U-6191C xX

~ LLC3

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the authorized local exchange service territory of each
CLC petitoner is limited to the ILEC service territories of Pacific, GTEC.

2 The authorized local exchange territory for this carrier encompasses the ILEC service
territories of Pacific, GTEC, RTC, and CTC.

3 The facilities-based portion of the DSLnet petition shall be considered during the next
quarterly review period.

369 of 682



--- page 370 ---
. &.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs®

APPENDIX C
_LIST OF CLC Tariff Deficiencies _
_ Page 1 of 4

Eagle Communications, Pet. 132

Eagle Communications was to file a supplement to its petition as
previously requested by the Telecommunications Staff to correct the many
deficiencies to its tariffs. To date, it has not filed a supplement to correct the
identified deficiencies. Eagle must file a revised set of tariffs that fully comply
_ with D.95-07-054, D.95-12-056, D.95-12-057, D.96-04-049. |

Network Plus — Pet. 136

Deficiencies in Network Plus’s Proposed Tariffs

1. On each tariff sheet, (1) replace the phrase above the top horizontal line
“Local Exchange Services” to “Competitive Local Carrier Tariff” and (2) adda
vertical line on both the left and right margins.

2. Sheet No. 3, Preliminary Statement, 1.1, last paragraph. Replace the phrase
“to resell local exchange telecommunications services within the State of
California” to “to provide facilities-based and resale local exchange services as a
competitive local carrier in the service areas of Pacific Bell, GTEC, Citizens and
Roseville Telephone Companies.”

3. Sheet No. 13, Rule 1, Definitions. Include the definitions adopted in
Decision 95-07-054 for: (1) Major Rate Increase, and (2) Minor Rate Increase.

4, Sheet No. 17, Rule 3, Customer Application for Service. Revise tariffs to
fully comply with the provisions of Rule 2, Appendix B of Decision 95-07-054,

(e.g., service initiation based on a written or oral agreement; confirmation letter

.370 of 682



--- page 371 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/ TRP /avst

APPENDIX C
LIST OF CLC Tariff Deficiencies
Page 2 of 4

5. briefly describing services, in case of an oral agreement; statement of
terms/conditions for all new customers, etc.). -

6. Sheet No. 18, Rule 5, Contracts and Agreements. Delete language re

effectivity on five days’ notice for ” subsequent completed contracts.” All

contracts shall be subject to the 40-day notice until revised by the Commission.

7. Sheet No. 19. (1) Rule 6, Special Information Required on Forms. Revise
tariff language to fully comply with the provisions of Rule 3 (A) and (B),
Appendix B of Decision 95-07-054. (2) Rule 7, Establishment and
Re-establishment of Credit. Include language on situations when deposits are
not required. (See Rule 4, Appendix B of Decision 95-07-054.)

8. Sheet No. 20. (1) Rule 8, Advance Payments. Revise tariff language to
indicate that advance payments shall be credited on the customer’s first bill.

(2) Deposits. Include language on the interest rate to be added to deposits.
(See Rule 5, Appendix B of Decision 95-07-054.)

9. Sheet No. 21, Rule 9, Notices. (1) Revise tariff to indicate that cancellation
of service by customers may be either verbal or written. (2) Include tariff
language on rates and rate revisions and information on notices of
discontinuance by a competitive local carrier. (See Rule 6, Appendix B of
Decision 95-07-054.)

10. Sheet No. 22, Rule 10, Cancellation of Service by Company. Revise tariff
to indicate that notice of discontinuance of service by a company for nonpayment
of bills shall be provided in writing by first class mail to the customer not less

than 7 calendar days prior to termination.

371 of 682


--- page 372 ---
2.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avst

APPENDIX C
LIST OF CLC Tariff Deficiencies
Page 3 of 4

11. Sheet No. 25, Rule 16, Rendering and Payment of Bills. Note that a

five-month back billing period for error files and one and one-half years

back billing period for fraud are applicable only to interexchange service

providers. Revise tariff accordingly. (See Decision 88-09-061.)

12. Sheet Nos. 27 through 31, Liability of the Company. Adopt either Pacific
Bell’s or GTEC’s limitation of liability. The limitation of liability of these
companies are appended to Decision 95-12-057.

13. Sheet 36, Rule 25, Additional Provisions, etc., Section D. Include language
to indicate that deposits will be refunded with interest within 30 days after
discontinuance of service or 12 months of service, whichever comes first.

14. Sheet 37, Rule 26, Additional Provisions, etc. Comply with the back billing
provisions of Decision 88-09-061 for local exchange service providers.

15. Sheet 68, Custom Calling Services. Briefly describe each feature. Delete
any reference to Caller ID service. This service can only be provided upon
compliance with the customer notification and education rules adopted in
Decision 96-04-049.

16. Sheet 72, Taxes and Surcharges. Update the applicable California

surcharges. The current surcharges are: (1) Reimbursement Fee - 0.11%;
(2) ULTS - 0.00%; (3) CHCF-A- 0.00%; (4) CHCF-B - 3.8%; (5) California Relay
Service & Communications Devices Fund - 0.192%; (6) California Teleconnect
Fund - 0.05%.

17. Include tariffs on: (1) Directories, (2) Non-published service,

(3) Demarcation points, (4) Pro-rating of bills, (5) Change of service provider,

372 of 682


--- page 373 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs*

APPENDIX C
LIST OF CLC Tariff Deficiencies
Page 4 of 4

18. (6) Blocking of 976/900 calls, (7) Access to 911 by residential customers
disconnected for nonpayment, (8) Switched access, (9) Number portability,
(10) Privacy, (11) Universal Lifeline Telephone Service (ULTS) rates and income
limitations, and (12) Sample forms. The forms may be filed with the company’s

initial tariff filing. (See Decision 95-07-054.)

NTC has to file a full set of tariffs in compliance with D.95-07-054, etc.

(END OF APPENDIX C)

373 of 682


--- page 374 ---
"  95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

APPENDIX D

374 of 682


--- page 375 ---
NEGATIVE DECLARATION (14)

Competitive Local Carriers' (CLCs)
Projects for Local Exchange Telecommunications Service throughout California.

The subject of this Negative Declaration are nine current petitions/applications for
authorization to provide facilities based local telephone services. (See Appendix B).

The California Public Utilities Commission is the lead agency in approving these petitioners’
intent to compete in the local exchange market. Additional approvals by other agencies may be
required depending upon the scope and type of construction proposed by the petitioner (e.g.
federal, ‘other state agencies, and ministerial permits by local agencies).

Because the subject projects of the nine current petitioners are similar, with some modifications,
to the projects proposed by the past petitioners, the Commission incorporates, in whole, Negative
Declaration 13 for these nine petitions/applications, and will refer to the incorporated documents
as “Negative Declaration 14” (Section 15150 of CEQA Guidelines). The public comment
period for the Draft Negative Declaration 14 begins on April 29, 1999 and expires on May
28, 1999. Comments should be addressed to: John Boccio, Project Manager, California Public
Utilities Commission, Energy Division, 505 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94102, Fax:
(415) 703-2200, E-Mail: jbx@cpuc.ca.gov. For further information call Mr. Boccio at (415)
703-2641.

BACKGROUND

The California Public Utilities Commission's Decision 95-07-054 enables telecommunications
companies to compete with local telephone companies in providing local exchange service.
Previous to this decision, local telephone service was monopolized by a single utility per service
territory. The Commission initially received 66 petitions from companies to provide competitive
local telephone service throughout areas presently served by Pacific Bell and GTE California.
The 66 petitioners included cable television companies, cellular (wireless) companies,' long-
distance service providers, local telephone service providers, and various other
telecommunication companies that specialize in transporting data.

Forty of the sixty-six petitions were for approval of facilities-based services, which means that
the petitioners proposed to use their own facilities in providing local telephone service. The
remaining 26 petitions were strictly for approval of resale-based services, meaning that telephone

| Wireless companies covered in the Negative Declarations adopted by the Commission for entry in the local
telephone market are also subject to Commission General Order (G.O. 159A). G.O. 159A delegates to local
governments the authority to issue discretionary permits for the approval of proposed sites for wireless facilities.
Commission adoption of the Negative Declarations is not intended to supersede or invalidate the requirements
contained in General Order 159A.

375 of 682


--- page 376 ---
service will be resold using another competitor's facilities. (Most of the facilities-based
petitioners offer resale-based services as well.) The 40 facilities-based petitions indicated that
physical modifications to existing facilities may be required, and construction of new facilities
was a possibility in the long-term. The 26 resale-based petitions were strictly financial and
billing arrangements that involved no construction and were therefore considered to be exempt
from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (Public Resources Code Sections 21000
et seq.).

The Commission issued a draft Negative Declaration for the initial 40 facilities-based petitioners
in October 1995. Comments on the draft Negative Declaration covered issues such as traffic
congestion, public safety, cumulative impacts, aesthetic impacts, and physical wear on streets.
These comments were addressed and the Negative Declaration was modified to some extent in
response to the comments. In December 1995, Commission Decision D.95-12-057 adopted a
final mitigated Negative Declaration finding that the proposed projects of the initial 40 facilities-
based petitioners would not have potentially significant environmental effects with specified
mitigation measures incorporated by the projects.

Following the adoption of D.95-12-057, the Commission received eight additional petitions for
facilities-based services. The eight petitioners included cable television companies, resale-based
providers approved by D.95-12-057, and other telecommunication companies. Following the
public comment period, the Commission made minor modifications to the first Negative
Declaration, and in September 1996, the Commission adopted the second Negative Declaration
for these eight companies (D.96-09-072). (This Negative Declaration is sometimes referred to as
“Negative Declaration II”). In January 1997, the Commission adopted a third Negative
Declaration for eight more facilities-based petitioners. “Negative Declaration III” is virtually the
same document as Negative Declaration II because the proposed projects of the eight petitioners
were no different from the projects proposed by the two groups of petitioners that preceded them.
Following the issuance of Negative Declaration III, ten subsequent Negative Declarations,
Negative Declaration IV (D.97-04-011), Negative Declaration V (D.97-06-100), Negative
Declaration VI (D.97-09-110), Negative Declaration VII (D97-12-084), Negative Declaration IX
(D.98-03-066), Negative Declaration X (D. 98-06-067), Negative Declaration 1 1 (D.98-09-66),
and Negative Declaration 12 (D.98-12-083) and Negative Declaration 13 (D.99-03-050) have
been adopted by the Commission in granting authority to provide facilities based local
telecommunication services under essentially the same circumstances. (Negative Declaration
VII] addressed telecommunication companies petitioning to provide services in the Roseville
Telephone Company and Citizens Telephone Company of California service areas only).
"Negative Declaration IV addressed nine petitioners, Negative Declaration V addressed six
petitioners, Negative Declaration VI addressed eight petitioners Negative Declaration VII
addressed five petitioners, Negative Declaration VIII addressed eleven petitioners, Negative
Declaration IX addressed eleven petitioners, Negative Declaration X addressed, two petitioners
and Negative Declaration |1 addressed eight petitioners and Negative Declaration 12 addressed
twelve petitioners.

376 of 682


--- page 377 ---
PROJECT DESCRIPTION

Following the adoption of Negative Declaration 13, the Commission received nine more
petitions/applications for facilities-based services. These petitioners are the subject of this
Negative Declaration. (See Appendix B for a list of the current facilities-based petitioners.)

Similar to the earlier petitioners, most of the current petitioners are initially targeting local
telephone service for areas where their telecommunications infrastructure is already established,
and therefore only minor construction is envisioned. Services provided will include but not be
limited to voice, data, video, internet and other telecommunications services. The petitioners
will need to make some modifications to their existing facilities; these modifications are minor in
nature, the most common being the installation of a switch that connects potential customers to
outside systems. Switch installation is necessary because customers receiving a particular type
of service may not have access to local telephone networks. For example, customers receiving
cable television service are presently unable to connect to local.telephone networks because of
the differences in modes of service. A switch installation by a cable television provider is one
step that makes the connection possible. Switch installation is considered a minor modification
because it typically involves a single installation within an existing central communication
facility or building.

Besides the minor modifications, some of the companies are planning to install their own fiber
optic cables to provide adequate service. Cables will be installed within existing utility
underground conduits or ducts, or attached to utility poles with existing overhead lines whenever
possible. Fiber optic cables are extremely thin, and existing conduits will likely be able to hold
multiple cables. However, if existing conduits or poles are unable to accommodate additional
cables, then new conduits or poles will need to be constructed by the petitioner. In this case, the
petitioners will construct within existing utility rights-of-way. There is also the possibility that
the petitioners may attempt to access other rights-of-way (such as roads) to construct additional
conduits. Extension of existing rights-of-way into undisturbed areas is not likely, but a
possibility. | , ;

The installation of fiber optic cables into underground conduits will vary in complexity
depending upon the conditions of the surrounding area. For example,-in urban, commercial
areas, utility conduits can be accessible with minimal groundbreaking and installation simply
requires stringing the cable through one end of the conduit and connecting it to the desired end.
In this case, major excavation of the right-of-way is unnecessary. However, there may also be
conditions where access to the conduit will require trenching and excavation.

Some of the petitioners have plans to construct service boxes or cabinets which contain batteries
for the provision of power or emergency power. The dimensions of the boxes vary, but basically
range from three to five feet in height. Depending upon the type of technology and facilities
operated by the petitioner, smaller service boxes (approximately 3 inches in height) would be
used for power supply and backup power. Those petitioners who have no plans to use such

3

377 of 682


--- page 378 ---
boxes already have capable power and backup power within their existing facilities. The
petitioners who will need such boxes, have committed to placing the boxes in existing buildings,
or in underground vaults. If conditions do not permit building or underground installation, the
petitioners would use small low-profile boxes that are landscaped and fenced.

While most of the petitioners will initially compete for customers in urban, commercial and
residential zones where telecommunication infrastructure is already in place, some petitioners
state their intention or right to compete on a state wide basis wherever competition is permitted.
However it is unclear at this time if all areas will be affected by the projects because many
petitioners are not specific where they intend to compete in the long-run.

ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION

An Initial Study was prepared to assess the projects’ potential effects on the environment, and the
respective significance of those effects. Based on the Initial Study, the CLCs' projects for
competitive local exchange service have the potential to cause significant adverse effects on the
environment in the area of Land Use and Planning, Geological Resources, Water, Air Quality,

- Transportation and Circulation, Hazards, Noise, Public Services, Aesthetic and Cultural
Resources. The projects will have less than a significant effect in other resource areas of the
checklist. It should be noted that Findings 2 through 10 are for those projects which require
work within existing utility rights-of-way for the purpose of modifying existing facilities or
installing new facilities. Finding | is applicable for work outside of the existing utility rights-of-
way.

In response to the Initial Study, the following specific measures should be incorporated into the -
projects to assure that they will not have any significant adverse effects on the environment. (See
Public Resources Code Section 21064.5.)

As a general matter, many of the mitigation measures rely on compliance with local standards
and the local ministerial permit process. Although local safety and aesthetic input is essential in
minimizing the impact of the petitioner's construction, local jurisdictions cannot impose
standards or permit requirements which would prevent petitioners from developing their service
territories, or otherwise interfere with the statewide interest in competitive telecommunication
service. Therefore, the petitioners’ required compliance with local permit requirements is subject
to this limitation.

The findings of the draft Negative Declaration were modified in response to comments filed
during the public comment period from Negative Declarations II and I V. Changes are marked by
italics.

1. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental effects for all
environmental factors if a proposed project extends beyond the utility right-of-way into
undisturbed areas or into other rights-of-way. ("Utility right-of-way" means any utility

4

378 of 682


--- page 379 ---
right-of-way, not limited to only telecommunication utility right-of-way.) For the most
part, the petitioners do not plan to conduct projects that are beyond the utility nght-of-
way. However, should this occur, the petitioner shall file a Petition to. Modify its
Certificate for Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN). An appropriate
environmental analysis of the impacts of these site specific activities shall be done.

2. The proposed projects will not have any significant effects on Population and
Housing, Biological Resources, Energy and Mineral Resources, and Recreation if the
proposed projects remain within existing utility right-of-way. There are no potential
environmental effects in these areas, or adequate measures are incorporated into the
projects to assure that significant effects will not occur.

3. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental effects on
Geological Resources because possible upgrades or installations to underground conduits
may induce erosion due to excavation, grading and fill. It is unclear as to how many
times underground conduits may be accessed by the petitioners, but it is reasonable to
assume that constant excavation by various providers could result in erosion in areas
where soil containment is particularly unstable.

In order to mitigate. any potential effects on geological resources, the petitioners shall
comply with all local design, construction and safety standards by obtaining all applicable
ministerial permits from the appropriate local agencies. In particular, erosion control
plans shall be developed and implemented for areas identified as particularly unstable or
susceptible to erosion. If more than one petitioner plans to excavate geologically
sensitive areas, coordination of their plans shall be necessary to minimize the number and
duration of disturbances.

4. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental effects on
Water Resources because possible upgrades or installation to underground conduits may
be in close proximity to underground or surface water sources. While the anticipated
construction will generally occur within existing utility rights-of-way, the projects have
the potential to impact nearby water sources if heavy excavation is required as the method
of access to the conduits. :

In order to mitigate any potential effects on water resources, the petitioners shall comply
with all local design, construction and safety standards. This will include consultation
with all appropriate local, state and federal water resource agencies for projects that are in
close proximity to water resources, underground or surface. The petitioners shall comply
with all applicable local, state and federal water resource regulations. Appropriate site
specific mitigation plans shall be developed by the petitioners if the projects impact water
quality, drainage, direction, flow or quantity. If there is more than one petitioner for a
particular area that requires excavation, coordination plans shall be required to minimize
the number and duration of disturbances.

5

379 of 682



--- page 380 ---
5. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental effects on Air
Quality because possible excavation efforts for underground conduits may result in
vehicle emissions and airborne dust for the immediate areas of impact. This is especially
foreseeable if more than one petitioner should attempt such work in the same locale.
While the impact will be temporary, the emissions and dust could exceed air quality
standards for the area.

The petitioners shall develop and implement appropriate dust control measures during

excavation as recommended by the applicable air quality management district. The

petitioners shall comply with al! applicable air quality standards as established by the

affected air quality management districts. If there is more than one petitioner for a

particular area that requires excavation, coordination plans shall be required to minimize
the number and duration of disturbances.

6. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental impacts on
Transportation and Circulation and Public Services because uncoordinated efforts by the
petitioners to install fiber optic cable could result in a cumulative impact of traffic
congestion, insufficient parking and hazards or barriers for pedestrians. This is
foreseeable if the competitors choose to compete in the same locality .and desire to install
their own cables. If the selected area is particularly dense with heavy vehicular or
pedestrian traffic, the impacts could be enormous without sufficient contro] and
coordination. Uncoordinated efforts may also adversely impact the quality and longevity
of public street maintenance because numerous excavation activity depreciates the life of
the surface pavement. Impacts from trenching activity may occur in utility rights-of-way
that contain other Public Services such as irrigation water lines.

The petitioners’ shall coordinate their efforts to install fiber optic cables or additional
conduits so that the number of encroachments to the utility rights-of-way are minimized.
These coordination efforts shall also include affected transportation and planning
agencies to coordinate other projects unrelated to the petitioners’ projects. For example,
review of a planning agency's Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) to identify impacted
street projects would be an expected part of the coordination effort by the petitioner.
Besides coordinating their efforts, the petitioners shall abide by all local construction,
maintenance and safety standards (and state standards, if applicable) by acquiring the
necessary ministerial permits from the appropriate local agency or CalTrans (if within a
State right-of-way). Examples of these permits are excavation, encroachment and
building permits. Appropriate construction start and end times, and dates if appropriate,

2 The petitioners discussed in this Negative Declaration shall coordinate with all CLCs including those listed in the
first Negative Declaration adopted by the Commission (D.95-12-057) and all CLCs in future Negative Declarations.
CLCs covered in the first Negative Declaration shall likewise be expected coordinate with those CLCs listed in this .
Negative Declaration or any subsequent one adopted by the Commission.

380 of 682


--- page 381 ---
shall be employed to avoid peak traffic periods and to minimize disruption, especially if
the petitioners’ work encroaches upon transportation rights-of-way. Petitioners shall
consult with local agencies on appropriate restoration of public service facilities that are
damaged by the construction and shall be responsible for such restoration.

7. The proposed projects could have potentially significant hazard-related effects because
uncoordinated construction efforts described above could potentially interfere with
emergency response or evacuation plans. There is also potential for an increase in
overhead lines and poles which carry hazard-related impacts.

The same mitigation plan as described in the previous section is applicable here as well,
and shall be augmented by notice to and consultation with emergency response or
evacuation agencies if the proposed project interferes with routes used for emergencies or
evacuations. The coordination efforts shall include provisions so that emergency or
evacuation plans are not hindered. If the projects result in an increase in overhead
communication lines, the petitioner shall obtain the necessary ministerial permits.to erect
the necessary poles to support the lines. The Commission shall include these facilities as
part of its overhead line regular inspections so that the requirements of G.O. 95 are met.

8. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental effects on
Noise because it is possible some projects may require excavation or trenching. Although
the effect is likely to be short-term, existing levels of noise could be exceeded.

If the petitioner requires excavation, trenching or other heavy construction activities
which would produce significant noise impacts, the petitioner shall abide by all
applicable local noise standards and shall inform surrounding property owners and
occupants (particularly school districts, hospitals and the residential neighborhoods) of
the day(s) when most construction noise would occur. Notice shall be given at least two
weeks in advance of the construction.

9. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental effects on
aesthetics because it is possible that additional lines on poles in utility rights-of-way
could become excessive for a particular area Aesthetic impacts may also occur in utility
rights-of-way that are landscaped. Moreover, there is potential for an increase in above
grade utility service boxes or cabinets which also carry aesthetic impacts.

Local aesthetic concerns shall be addressed by the petitioners for all facilities that are
above-ground, in particular all types of service boxes or cabinets. The local land use or
planning agency shall be consulted by the petitioner so that any site-specific aesthetic
impacts are assessed and properly mitigated. For example, this may include restoration
of the landscaped utility rights-of-way.

10. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental effects on

7

381 of 682


--- page 382 ---
cultural resources because situations involving additional trenching may result in
disturbing known or unanticipated archaeological or historical resources.

The petitioners shall conduct appropriate data research for known cultural resources in
the proposed project area, and avoid such resources in designing and constructing the
project. Should cultural resources be encountered during construction, all earthmoving
activity which would adversely impact such resources shall be halted or altered so as to
avoid such impacts, until the petitioner retains the service of a qualified archaeologist
who will do the appropriate examination and analysis. The archeologist shall consult
with appropriate federal, state and local agencies concerned with cultural resources, so
that any potential impacts upon cultural resources are assessed and properly avoided or
mitigated. The archeologist shall, in coordination with agencies, develop a plan for
avoiding or mitigating any potential impacts upon those resources encountered.

In summary, the Mitigation Measures recommended in this environmental determination are:

A) All Environmental Factors: if a proposed project extends beyond the utility right-of-
way into undisturbed areas or other right-of-way, the petitioner shall file a Petition to
Modify its Certificate for Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN). ("Utility right-of-
way" means any utility. right-of-way, not limited to only telecommunications utility right-
of-way.) An appropriate environniental analysis of the impacts of these site specific
activities shall be done.

If the projects remain within the utility right-of-way, the following Mitigation Measures are
Tecommended: .

B) General Cumulative Impacts: in the event that more than one petitioner seeks
modifications or additions to a particular locality, the petitioners shall coordinate their
plans with each other, and consult with affected local agencies so that any cumulative
effects on the environment are minimized. These coordination efforts shall reduce the
number and duration of disturbance to existing utility right-of-way. Regardless of the
number of petitioners for a particular locality, the petitioner shall consult with, and abide
by the standards established, by all applicable local agencies. Each petitioner shall file a
quarterly report, one month prior to the beginning of each quarter, that summarizes the
construction projects that.are anticipated for the coming quarter. The summary will
contain a description of the type of construction and the location for each project so that
the local planning agencies can adequately coordinate multiple projects if necessary. The
reports will also contain a summary of the petitioner's compliance with all Mitigation
Measures for the projects listed. The quarterly reports will be filed with the local
planning agencies where the projects are expected to take place and the Commission’s
Telecommunications Division. The Commission filing will be in the form of an
informational advice letter. Subsequent quarterly reports shall also summarize the status

8

382 of 682


--- page 383 ---
of the projects listed in previous quarterly report, until they are completed.

C) Geologicai Resources: the petitioners shall comply with all local design construction
and safety standards by obtaining all applicable ministerial permits from the appropriate
local agencies including the development and approval of erosion control plans. These
shall be developed and implemented for areas identified as particularly unstable or
susceptible to erosion. If more than one petitioner plans to excavate sensitive areas,
coordination of their plans shall be necessary to minimize the number of disturbances.
The petitioner's compliance with this Mitigation Measure shall be included in its
quarterly report.

D) Water Resources: the petitioners shall consult with all appropriate local, state and
federal water resource agencies for projects that are in close proximity to water resources,
underground or surface. The petitioners shall comply with all applicable local, state and
federal water resource regulations including the development of site-specific mitigation
plans should the projects impact water quality, drainage, direction, flow or quantity. If
there is more than one petitioner for a particular area that requires excavation,
coordination plans shall be required to minimize the number of disturbances. The
petitioner's compliance with this Mitigation Measure shall be included in its quarterly
report.

E) Air Quality: the petitioners shall develop and implement appropriate dust control
measures during excavation as recommended by the applicable air quality management
district. The petitioners shall comply with all applicable air quality standards as
established by the affected air quality management districts. If there is more than one
petitioner for a particular area that requires excavation, coordination plans shall be
required to minimize the number of disturbances. The petitioner's compliance with this
Mitigation Measure shail be included in its quarterly report.

F) Transportation and Circulation and Public Services: the petitioners’ shall
coordinate their efforts to install fiber optic cables or additional conduits so that the
number of disturbances to the utility rights-of-way are minimized. These coordination
efforts shall include affected transportation and planning agencies to coordinate other
projects unrelated to the petitioners’ projects. For example, review of a planning agency's
Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) to identify impacted street projects would be an
expected part of the coordination effort by the petitioner. Besides coordinating their
efforts, the petitioners shall abide by all local construction, maintenance and safety
standards (and state standards, if applicable) by acquiring the necessary ministerial
permits from the appropriate local agency and/or CalTrans (if within State right-of-way).
Examples of these permits are excavation, encroachment and building permits.
Appropriate construction start and end times, and dates if appropriate, shall be employed

3 See Footnote #2.

383 of 682



--- page 384 ---
to avoid peak traffic periods, especially if the petitioners’ work encroaches upon
transportation rights-of-way. Notice to the affected area (surrounding property owners
and occupants) shal] be given at least two weeks in advance of the construction. The
notice will provide the time and dates of the proposed construction and discussion of
potential impacts on traffic and circulation. Petitioners shall consult with local agencies
on appropriate restoration of public service facilities that are damaged by the
construction and shall be responsible for such restoration. The notice required for
Mitigation Measures F and H shall be consolidated. The petitioner's compliance with this
Mitigation Measure shal! be included in its quarterly report.

G) Hazards: the petitioners shall use the Transportation and Circulation mitigation
measure and augment it by informing and consulting with emergency response or
evacuation agencies if the proposed project interferes with routes used for emergencies or
evacuations. The coordination effort shall include provisions so that emergency or
evacuation plans are not hindered. If the projects result in an increase in overhead
communication lines, the petitioner shall obtain the necessary ministerial permits to erect
the necessary poles to support the lines. The Commission shall include these facilities as
part of its overhead line regular inspections so that the requirements of G.O. 95 are met.
The petitioner's compliance with this Mitigation Measure shall be included in its
quarterly report.

H) Noise: the petitioner shall abide by all applicable local noise standards and shall
inform surrounding property owners and occupants, particularly school districts, hospitals

-and the residential neighborhoods, of the day(s) when most construction noise would
occur if the petitioner plans excavation, trenching or other heavy construction activities
which would cause any significant noise. Notice shall be given at least two weeks in
advance of the construction. The notice required for Mitigation Measures F and H shall
be consolidated. The petitioner's compliance with this Mitigation Measure shall be
included in its quarterly report.

I) Aesthetics: All applicable local aesthetic standards will be addressed by the petitioners
for all facilities that are above-ground, in particular all types of service boxes or cabinets.
The local land use agency shall be consulted by the petitioner so that any site-specific
aesthetic impacts are assessed and properly mitigated by the petitioner. For example, this
may include restoration of the landscaped utility rights-of-way. Petitioner's compliance
with this Mitigation Measure shall be included in its quarterly report.

J) Cultural Resources: The petitioners shall conduct appropriate data research for
known cultural resources in the proposed project area, and avoid such resources in
designing and constructing the project. Should cultural resources be encountered during
construction, all earthmoving activity which would adversely impact such resources shall
be halted or altered until the petitioner retains the service of a qualified archaeologist who
will do the appropriate examination and analysis. The archaeologist will provide

10

384 of 682


--- page 385 ---
proposals for any procedures to mitigate the impact upon those resources encountered.
The treatment plan will be designed through coordination with the appropriate federal,
state and local agencies. The petitioner's compliance with this Mitigation Measure shall
be included in its quarterly report.

General Statement for all Mitigation Measures:

Although local safety and aesthetic input is essential in minimizing the impact of the petitioner's
construction, local jurisdictions cannot impose standards or permit requirements which would
prevent petitioners from developing their service territories, or otherwise interfere with the
statewide interest in competitive telecommunication service. Therefore, the petitioners’ required
compliance with local permit requirements is subject to this limitation.

With the implementation of the mitigation measures listed in A) - J) above, the Commission
should conclude that the proposed projects will not have one or more potentially significant
environmental effects. The Commission should also adopt a Mitigation Monitoring Plan which
will ensure that the Mitigation Measures listed above will be followed and implemented. The
Mitigation Monitoring Plan is included with this Negative Declaration as Appendix C.

Natalie Walsh, Program Manager
Analysis Branch
Energy Division

4-27-19

Date

385 of 682


--- page 386 ---
INITIAL STUDY CHECKLIST

Environmental Factors Potentially Affected:

The environmental factors checked below would be potentially affected by this project, involving at least one
impact that is a "Potentially Significant Impact" as indicated by the checklist on the following pages.

Land Use and Planning Transportation/C irculation | Public Services

O Population and Housing O Biological Resources &) Utilities and Service
Systems
) Geological Problems O Energy and Mineral Resources
Aesthetics
{&] Water Hazards
GJ Cultural Resources

& Air Quality &) Noise

© Recreation
[x] Mandatory Findings of
Significance

Note: For construction outside of the utility rights-of-way, potential environmental impacts are too variable
and uncertain to be specifically evaluated in this Initial Study, but are addressed in Environmental
Determination 1 and Mitigation Measure (A) in the Negative Declaration.

Determination:
On the basis of this initial evaluation:

| find that the proposed projects COULD NOT have a significant effect
on the environment, and a NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared.

| find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect
on the environment, there will not be-a significant effect in this case be-
cause the mitigation measures described on an attached sheet have been
added to the projects. A NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared.

| find that the proposed projects MAY have a significant effect on the
environment, and an ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT is required.

| find that the proposed projects MAY have a significant effect(s) on the
environment, but at least one effect 1) has been adequately analyzed in an
earlier document pursuant to applicable legal standards, and 2) has been
addressed by mitigation measures based on an earlier analysis as described

on attached sheets, if the effect is a "potentially significant impact” or
"potentially significant unless mitigated." An ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
REPORT is required, but it must analyze only the effects that remain to be
addressed.

386 of 682


--- page 387 ---
| find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the
environment, there WILL NOT be a significant effect in this case because all
potentially significant effects (a) have been analyzed adequately in an earlier
EIR pursuant to applicable standards and (b) have been avoided or mitigated
pursuant to that earlier EIR, including revisions or mitigation measures that are
imposed upon the proposed project.

foe 27-997
Date

Signature Fw N- Wels b

Natalie Walsh Program Manager
Printed Name Analysis Branch

Energy Division
California Public Utilities Commission

387 of 682


--- page 388 ---
|. LAND USE AND PLANNING. Would the proposal:

Conflict with general plan designation or
zoning?

Conflict with applicable environmental plans

or policies adopted by agencies with jurisdiction

over the project?

Be incompatible with existing land use in the
vicinity?

Affect agricultural resources or operations
(e.g. impacts to soils or farmlands, or impacts
from incompatible land uses)?

Disrupt or divide the physical arrangement of
an established community (including a low-
income or minority community)?

Potentially
Significant
Unless
Mitigation
Incorporated

Less Than
Significant
Impact

Potentially
Significant
Impact

No
Impact

0 & O oO

The proposed projects are not anticipated to:have any significant impacts on general or environmental plans,
zoning, existing land usage, or agricultural resources. The projects are essentially modifications to existing
facilities within established utility rights-of-way. Since these rights-of-way are already designed to be in
compliance with zoning and land use plans, disruption of such plans are not foreseeable. In the event that the
petitioners need to construct facilities that extend beyond the rights-of-way, see Mitigation Measure A in the

Negative Declaration.

Il. POPULATION AND HOUSING. Would the proposal:

Cumulatively exceed official regional or
local population projections?

a)

b) Induce substantial growth in an area either
directly or indirectly (e.g. through projects in
an undeveloped area or extension of major

infrastructure?

Displace existing housing, especially affordable
housing?

c)

Oo D 0 fx)

Oo a) Oo &

The proposed projects will not have impacts upon population or housing. The purpose of the projects is to

3

388 of 682


--- page 389 ---
introduce competition into the local telephone service market. Since competition will be generally statewide and
not centered in one locale, it is not anticipated that the projects will have an effect on population projections or
housing availability of any particular area. The areas that will not initially receive the competition are rural, less
populated areas; it cannot be seen that the initial lack of competitive services in these areas will result i in
significant movements of people to areas where competition will be heavy.

Potentially
Significant
Potentially Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation Significant = No
Impact Incorporated Impact Impact
III. GEOLOGIC PROBLEMS. Would the proposal result
in or expose people to potential impacts involving:
a) Fault rupture? Oo 0 o .
b) Seismic ground shaking? O a) a) t)
c) Seismic ground failure, including liquefaction? oO a) | &
d) — Seiche, tsunami, or volcanic hazard? 0 oO O ea
e) Landslides or mudflows? Oo &) 0 8)
f) Erosion, changes in topography or unstable
soil conditions from excavation, grading, or
fill? o & . Oo 0
g) Subsidence of land? 0 Oo Oo
h) Expansive soils? a) o 0 &
i) Unique geologic or physical features? 0 O 0 3}

The projects will be constructed within existing utility facilities or established utility rights-of-way and will
therefore not expose people to new risks for any of these impacts, except possibly erosion. Should additional cable
facilities require the installation of new or upgraded conduits, trenching, excavation, grading and fill could be
required. For appropriate mitigation, see > Mitigation Measures (B) and (C) for details in the Negative
Declaration.

IV. WATER. Would the proposal result in:

a) Changes in absorption rates, drainage patterns,
or the rate and amount of surface runoff? 0 es) 0 [x]

b) Exposure of people or property to water
related hazards such as flooding? 0 0 a) x)

389 of 682


--- page 390 ---
Potentially

Significant
Potentially - Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation Significant No
Impact Incorporated Impact Impact
c) Discharge into surface waters or other alteration
of surface water quality (e.g. temperature, dissolved
_oxygen or turbidity)? OO: - oO O
d) Changes in the amount of surface water in any ;
water body? o . Oo Oo x
e) Changes in currents, or the course or direction
of water movements? O 0 0 &
f) Change in the quantity of ground waters, either
through direct additions or withdrawals, or
through interception of an aquifer by cuts or
excavations or through substantial loss of
groundwater recharge capability? O &
g) Altered direction or rate of flow of groundwater? Oo &
h) Impacts to groundwater quality? | Oo | & 0 oO:
i) Substantial reduction in the amount of groundwater .
otherwise available for public water supplies? 0 0 0 &

The projects will involve alterations to existing telecommunication facilities (underground conduits or overhead
poles) but could expose additional risks if more than one petitioner decide to compete in the same locality. Efforts
to install cables, or if necessary, new conduits, in utility rights-of-way that are in close proximity to an
underground or surface water sources could carry significant effects for quality, flow, quantity, direction or
drainage if done improperly and without coordination. See Mitigation Measures (B) and (D) in the Negative
Declaration for details.

V. AIR QUALITY. Would the proposal:

a) Violate any air quality standard or contribute
to an existing or projected air quality violation? 0 & Oo 0

b) Expose sensitive receptors to pollutants? o &) Oo

390 of 682



--- page 391 ---
Potentially

Significant
Potentially Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation Significant No
Impact Incorporated Impact Impact
c) Alter air movement, moisture, or temperature, or
cause any change in climate? Oo QO QD (x)
d) Create objectionable odors? Oo O Oo &

If the projects do not require excavation or trenching of underground conduits, they will not have an effect upon
air quality, movement, temperature or climate. However, should the projects require such work and, if more than
one petitioner decide to work in the same locale, there is pote::tial for an increase in dust in the immediate area.
See Mitigation Measures (B) and (E) in the Negative Declaration for details.

VI. TRANSPORTATION/CIRCULATION.
Would the proposal result in:
a) Increased vehicle trips or traffic congestion? | i) D QO
b) Hazards to safety from design features (e.g.
sharp curves or dangerous intersections) or

incompatible uses (e.g. farm equipment)? im) x D 0

c) Inadequate emergency access or access to nearby

uses? 0 go O
d) Insufficient parking capacity on-site or off-site? D () O QO
e) Hazards or barriers for pedestrians or bicyclists? 0 x) D

f) Conflicts with adopted policies supporting
alternative transportation (e.g. bus turnouts, :
bicycle racks)? | D 0

g) Rail, waterborne or air traffic impacts? 0 Ka 0 0

The petitioners plan to mcdify existing utility conduits or poles within existing utility rights-of-way initially in
urban, commercial zones and residential areas. Modification of these facilities by a single party does not present
significant impacts upon traffic or circulation since the installation process is not expected to be lengthy.
However, if more than one of the petitioners decide to compete in the same locality, their efforts to install their
own cables will have a significant cumulative effect on circuiation, especially in dense, urban commercial areas.
Asa result, increases in traffic congestion, insufficient parking, and hazards or barriers for pedestrian are
possible. See Mitigation Measures (B) and (F) in the Negative Declaration for details.

391 of 682


--- page 392 ---
Potentially

Significant
Potentially Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation Significant No
Impact Incorporated Impact Impact
VI1. BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES.
Would the proposal result in impacts to:
a) Endangered, threatened, or rare species or their
habitats (including but not limited to plants, fish,
insects, animals, and birds)? oO oO | x)
b) Locally designated species (e.g. heritage trees)? O | oO .. oO &
¢) Locally designated natural communities (e.g. oak
forest, coastal habitat, etc.)? oO oO Oo Fa]
d) Wetland habitat (e.g. marsh, riparian and vernal
pool)? Oo Oo oO ei
—e) Wildlife dispersal or migration corridors? oO oO oO rs

The projects will not affect any biological resources since all anticipated work will occur within existing utility
facilities or established utility rights-of-way. Established utility rights-of-way are assumed to be outside of
locally designated natural communities, habitats or migration corridors.

Vill. ENERGY AND MINERAL RESOURCES.
Would the proposal result in:

a) Conflict with adopted energy conservation plans? © 0 Oo

b) Use non-renewable resources in a wasteful and
inefficient manner? | Oo oO &

c) Result in the loss of availability of a known mineral
resource that would be of future value to the
region and the residents of the State? O oOo | O es

The projects will no impact upon mineral resources or the use of energy. The projects provide competitive
telecommunication services that have no direct relationship to efficient energy use or mineral resources. The
installation of additional fiber optic cables are within existing facilities or rights-of-way that are assumed to have
adequate mitigation designs to avoid impacts on any mineral resources within proximity.

392 of 682


--- page 393 ---
Potentially
Significant
Potentially - Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation Significant No
Impact incorporated Impact Impact

IX. HAZARDS. Would the proposal involve:

a) Arisk of accidental explosion or release of
hazardous substances (including, but not limited
to: oil, pesticides, chemicals or radiation)?

Possible interference with an emergency response
pian or emergency evacuation plan?

. The creation of any health hazard or potential
health hazard?

d) Exposure of people to existing sources of potential
_ health hazards? Oo Oo Oo

e) Increased fire hazard in areas with flammable
brush, grass, or trees? oO oO 0

The installation of fiber optic cables can be a quick, clean and simple procedure with little use of heavy
machinery. However there may be situations where excavation and trenching of underground conduits is
necessary if the conduits are not easily accessible. Should this occur, uncoordinated efforts by the.petitioners in
one concentrated area could potentially affect emergency response or evacuation plans for that locale. See
Mitigation Measures (B) and (G) in the Negative Declaration for details. Once the project is completed, the
additional cables do not represent any additional hazards to people nor do they increase the possibility of fires.

X.. NOISE. Would the proposal result in:
a) _ Increases in existing noise levels? O [).: oO o

b) Exposure of people to severe noise levels? 0 x) o D

The anticipated projects can be a quick and simple procedure, but in some cases could require heavy machinery or
construction activity such as excavation, trenching, grading and refill. There is also the possibility that
uncoordinated efforts by the petitioners in one locale could increase existing noise levels, if their activities involve
the construction described. See Mitigation Measures (B) and (H) in the Negative Declaration for details.

393 of 682


--- page 394 ---
Potentially
Significant

Potentially Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation Significant No
Impact Incorporated Impact Impact
XI. PUBLIC SERVICES. Would the proposal have an
effect upon, or result in a need for new or altered
government services in any of the following areas:
a) Fire protection? ws) O O )
b) Police protection? o Oo o
c) Schools? Oo O 0 &)
d) Maintenance of public facilities, including roads? 0 . 0 O
e) Other government services? 0 Oo 0 &

The proposed projects will increase competition in the local telephone service. The construction associated with
the projects have potential impacts on the maintenance of public streets and roads. Numerous disturbances ‘to the
street surfaces depreciates the quality and longevity of the pavement. Trenching projects may also impact other
existing public service facilities (e.g. irrigation lines) in the utility rights-of-way. Mitigation Measure F addresses
this impact.

X11. UTILITIES AND SERVICE SYSTEMS. Would the
proposal result in a need for new systems or supplies,
or substantial alterations to the following utilities:

a) Power or natural gas? | 0 O Oo) &
b) Communication systems? 0 ww a}
c) Local or regional water treatment or

distribution facilities? — Oo O. 0
d) Sewer or septic tanks? | oO oO
e) Storm water drainage? oO oO 0 &
f) Solid waste disposal? 0 oO oO &
g) Local or regional water supplies? 0 O 0 Ea

The proposed projects could substantially alter communication systems in the event that existing facilities are
unable to accommodate all of the participants in the market. If this should occur, additional conduits or poles for
telecommunication equipment will need to be inserted in existing utility rights-of-way or the petitioners may seek
entry to other rights-of-way. If the petitioners are forced to construct outside of the existing utility rights-of-way,

9

394 of 682


--- page 395 ---
Mitigation Measure A is applicable. For work within the rights-of-way, see Mitigation Measure B in the Negative
Declaration.

Potentially
Significant
Potentially Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation _— Significant No
Impact Incorporated Impact Impact

XIII. AESTHETICS. Would the proposal:
a) Affect a scenic vista or scenic highway? QD 0 0
b) Havea demonstrated negative aesthetic effect? Oo om) on) oO
c) Create light or glare? Oo D 0 4]

The proposed projects will occur within utility rights of way that will be either be undergrounded or on existing
poles. Undergrounded facilities will have no demonstrated negative aesthetic effects. However, landscaped utility
rights-of-way may be impacted by trenching activities. Additional lines on the poles may be a concern, but the
proposed cables are not easily discernible and will unlikely have a negative impact. The only scenario where an
aesthetic effect can occur is if the number of competitors for a particular area become so heavy that the cables on
the poles become excessive. . There is potential for an increase in service boxes if the boxes cannot be installed
within buildings or underground. Should this occur, the petitioners should follow Mitigation Measures (B) and (1)
as described in the Negative Declaration.

XIV. CULTURAL RESOURCES. Would the proposal:

a) Disturb paleontological resources?
b) Disturb archaeological resources?
c) Affect historical resources?

d) Have potential to cause a physical change
which would affect unique ethnic cultural values? O &) Oo 0

e) Restrict existing religious or sacred uses within
the potential impact area? O Bl Oo 0

The projects will involve existing utility facilities or established rights-of -way that are assumed to be clear from
any paleontological, historical or archaeological resources. However, some projects may require excavation or
trenching of utility rights-of-way, or outside the rights-of-way. If sown or unanticipated cultural resources are
encountered during such work, then the Mitigation Measures (B) and (J) should be followed. See Negative
Deciaration for details.

395 of 682



--- page 396 ---
Potentially
Significant
Potentially Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation Significant . No
Impact Incorporated Impact ‘Impact

XV. RECREATION. Would the proposal:

a) _Increase.the demand for neighborhood or
regional parks or other recreational facilities? O D O &

b) Affect existing recreational opportunities? O O O

The projects will have no impact on recreational facilities or opportunities since these resources have no direction
relationship to increased competition in local telephone services.

XVI. MANDATORY FINDINGS OF SIGNIFICANCE.

a) Does the project have the potential to degrade the
quality of the environment, substantially reduce the
habitat of a fish or wildlife species, cause a fish or
wildlife population to drop below self-sustaining
levels, threaten to eliminate a plant or animal
community, reduce the number or restrict the range
of a rare or endangered plant or.animal, or eliminate
important examples of the major periods of California
history or prehistory? a)

Does the project have the potential to achieve
short-term, to the disadvantage of long-term,
environmental goals? Dp

Does the project have impacts that are individually
limited, but cumulatively considerable? ("Cumulatively
considerable” means that the incremental effects of a
project are considerable when viewed in connection
with the effects of past projects, the effects of other
current projects, and the effects of probably future
projects.) O

Does the project have environmental effects which
will cause substantial adverse effects on human beings,
either directly or indirectly? oO

396 of 682


--- page 397 ---
Appendix A

_ TFLEPNUNr EXCHANGE AREAS
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION

LEGEND

PACIIC BELL (PB)

GTE CALFOANLA (GT)

CONTE OF CALFORNA (CT)

OTHER TELEPHONE COMPANIES

UNFILED TERAMITOAY

NUMBER PLAN AREA BOUNDARIES (NPA) -AREA CODES"
LATA BOUNOARIES

PALM SPRINGS WARKET Anta

Ue
igen

Mh

cH
itil
i

|
|

|
i
a oe

H

HN
|
§
i"
Wh
a

| a I

fi

nye

a
I

ut
3_T

me

- ‘ en ~ L

ea con ea

oe

ae

ry
so


--- page 398 ---
APPENDIX B

PROJECT SPONSORS AND ADDRESSES

Eagle Communications of California, LLC
1.95-04-044 (Pet 132)

US Data Highway Corp.
1.95-04-044 (Pet. 133)

Seren Innovations, Inc.
1.95-04-044 (Pet. 134)

HTC Communications, LLC
1.95-04-044 (Pet. 135)

Network Plus, Inc.
1.95-04-044 (Pet. 136)

Campuslink Communications Systems, Inc.

1.95-04-044 (Pet. 137)

XL Networks, Inc.
1.95-04-044 (Pet. 138)

. Triad Communications Corporation
- 1,95-04-044 (Pet. 139)

1.95-04-044 (Pet. 140)

60 East 56" Street
New York, NY 10022

1113 Hopkins Way
Pleasanton, CA 94566

15 South 5" Street, Suite 500
Minneapolis, MN 55402

2131 N. Lamer Street
Burbank, CA 91504

234 Copeland Street
Quincy, MA 02169

1530 Eisenhower Place
Ann Arbor, MI 48108

909 Via Mirola | .
Palos Verdes Estates, CA 9027

2420 Sand Hill Road
Menlo, Park, CA 94025

700 Wilshire Boulevard, 7" Floor
Los Angeles, CA 90017

398 of 682


--- page 399 ---
Appendix.C
Mitigation Monitoring Plan

Competitive Local Carriers (CLCs)
Projects for Local Exchange Telecommunication Service throughout California

Introduction:

The purpose of this section is to describe the mitigation monitoring process for the CLCs'
proposed projects and to describe the roles and responsibilities of government agencies in
implementing and enforcing the selected mitigation measures.

California Public Utilities Commission (Commission):

The Public Utilities Code confers authority upon the Commission to regulate the terms of service
and safety, practices and equipment of utilities subject to its jurisdiction. It is the standard
practice of the Commission to require that mitigation measures stipulated as conditions of
approval be implemented properly, monitored, and reported on. Section 21081.6 of the Public
Utilities Code requires a public agency to adopt a reporting and monitoring program when it
approves a project that is subject to the adoption of a mitigated negative declaration.

The purpose of a reporting and monitoring program is to ensure that measures adopted to
mitigate or avoid significant environmental impacts are implemented. The Commission views
the reporting and monitoring program as a working guide to facilitate not only the
implementation of mitigation measures by the project proponents, but also the monitoring,
compliance and reporting activities of the Commission and any monitors it may designate.

The Commission will address its responsibility under Public Resources Code Section 21081.6
when it takes action on the CLCs' petitions to provide local exchange telephone service. If the
Commission adopts the Negative Declaration and approves the petitions, it will also adopt this
Mitigation Monitoring Plan as an attachment to the Negative Declaration.

Project Description:

The Commission has authorized various companies to provide local exchange telephone service
in competition with Pacific Bell, GTE California, Roseville Telephone Company and Citizens
Telephone Company of California. The.current petitioners notified the Commission of their
intent to compete in the territories throughout California, all of which are facilities-based services
meaning that they propose to use their own facilities to provide service.

399 of 682


--- page 400 ---
Step 1: Disputes and complaints (including those of the public) shall be directed first to the
Commission's designated Project Manager for resolution. The Project Manager will attempt to
resolve the dispute.

Step 2: Should this informal process fail, the Commission Project Manager may initiate
enforcement or compliance action to address deviation from the proposed project or adopted
Mitigation Monitoring Program.

Step. 3: Ifa dispute or complaint regarding the implementation or evaluation of the Mitigation
Monitoring Program or the Mitigation Measures cannot be resolved informally or through
enforcement or compliance action by the Commission, any affected participant in the dispute or
complaint may file a written "notice of dispute" with the Commission's Executive Director. This
notice shall be filed in order to resolve the dispute in a timely manner, with copies concurrently
served on other affected participants. Within 10 days of receipt, the Executive Director or
designee(s) shall meet or confer with the filer and other affected participants for purposes of
resolving the dispute. The Executive Director shall issue an Executive Resolution describing his
decision, and serve it on the filer and the other participants.

Partie: may also seek review by the Commission through existing procedures specified in the
Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, although a good faith effort should first be made
to use the foregoing procedure.

Mitigation Monitoring Program:

1. As discussed in Mitigation Measure B, the petitioners shall file a quarterly report which
summarizes those projects which they intend to construct for the coming quarter. The report will
contain a description of the project and its location, and a summary of the petitioner's compliance
with the Mitigation Measures described in the Negative Declaration. The purpose of the report is
to inform the local agencies of future projects so that coordination of projects among petitioners
in the same locality can be done. The quarterly report shall be filed with the appropriate
planning agency of the locality where the project(s) will occur. The report shall also bé filed as
an informational advice letter with the Commission’s Telecommunications Division so that
petitioner compliance with the Mitigation Measures are monitored..

In order to ensure that the Mitigation Measures are fulfilled, the Commission will make periodic
reviews of the projects listed in quarterly reports. The projects will be generally chosen at
random, although the Commission will review any project at its discretion. The reviews will
follow-up with the local jurisdictions so that all applicable Mitigation Measures are addressed.

400 of 682


--- page 401 ---
If any project is expected to go beyond the existing utility rights-of-way, that project will require
a separate petition to modify the CPCN. The petitioner shall file the petition with the
Commission and shall also inform the affected local agencies in writing. The local agencies are
also responsible for informing the Commission of any project listed in the quarterly reports
which may potentially go out of the existing utility nght-of-way. As discussed in Mitigation
Measure A, a complete environmental review of the project will be triggered under CEQA, with
the Commission as the lead agency.

2. In the event that the petitioner and the local agency do not agree if a project results in work
outside of the utility rights-of-way, the Commission will review the project and make the final
determination. See Dispute Resolution Process discussed above.

3. For projects that are in the utility rights-of-way, the petitioners shall abide by all applicable
local standards as discussed in the Mitigation Measures. If a petitioner fails to comply with local
regulatory standards by either neglecting to obtain the necessary permits, or by neglecting to
follow the conditions of the permits, the local agency shall notify the Commission and Dispute
Resolution Process begins..

4. The Commission is the final arbiter for all unresolvable disputes between the local agencies
and the petitioners. If the Commission finds that the petitioner has not complied with the
Mitigation Measures in the Negative Declaration, it may halt and terminate the project.

401 of 682


--- page 402 ---
Since many of the facilities-based petitioners are initially targeting local telephone service for
areas where their telecommunications infrastructure is already established, very little
construction is envisioned. However, there will be occasion where the petitioners will need to |
install fiber optic cable within existing utility underground conduits or attach cables to overhead
lines. There is the possibility that existing utility conduits or poles will be unable to
accommodate all the planned facilities, thereby forcing some petitioners to:build or extend
additional conduits into other rights-of-way, or into undisturbed areas. For more details on the
project description please see Project Description in the Negative Declaration.

Roles and Responsibilities:

As the lead agency under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the Commission is
required to monitor this project to ensure that the required mitigation measures are implemented.
- The Commission will be responsible for ensuring full compliance with the provisions of this
monitoring program and has primary responsibility for implementation of the monitoring
program. The purpose of this monitoring program is to document that the mitigation measures
required by the Commission are implemented and that mitigated environmental impacts are
reduced to insignificance or avoided outright.

Because of the geographic extent of the proposed projects, the Commission may delegate duties
and responsibilities for monitoring to other environmental monitors or consultants as deemed
necessary. For specific enforcement responsibilities of each mitigation measure, please refer to
the Mitigation Monitoring Table attached to this plan. .

The Commission has the ultimate authority to halt any construction, operation, or maintenance
activity associated with the CLC's local telephone service projects if the activity is determined to

. be a deviation from the approved project or adopted mitigation measures. For details refer to the
mitigation monitoring plan discussed below. -

Mitigation Monitoring Table:

‘The table attached to this plan presents a compilation of the Mitigation Measures in the Negative
Declaration. The purpose of the table is to provide the monitoring agencies with a single
comprehensive list of mitigation measures, effectiveness criteria, the enforcing agencies, and
timing. .

Dispute Resolution Process:

The Mitigation Monitoring Plan is expected to reduce or eliminate many potential disputes.
However, in the event that a dispute occurs, the following procedure will be observed:

402 of 682


--- page 403 ---
Mitigation Monitoring Table

72 Imnact

ALL FACTOR

Extenston or work
beyond or outside of

of the existing
utility right-of-way
into undisturbed

areas.

Cumulative im-
pacts due to

multiple disturb-
ances to a par-
ticular area.

A. Petitioner must file a Petitton

Quarterly raports.
to modify its CPCN. An appropriate .
environmental study of the

project ts dona.

B. Coordinatton efforts among
the petitioners and the affect-

ed focal agencies so that

Quarterly reports.

construction projacts in the
same location can be com-

bined or simultaneous.

Any work outside of
extsting utility right-of-

Before construction

way ls assessed
through an environ-
mental study.

The number and duratlon | Local agencies. Before constructlon

of disturbances to a
particular area are
minimized.

Potentlat erosion
due to excavation,

grading and fill.

C. Petitioners shall comply
with all local design, construc-

tlon and safely standards
through permit process. Eroston
control plans for areas identifiad
as susceptible to erosion.

Quarterly reports.

Eroston at the project
areas is contained.

Local agencies. Before and during

contruction.

Potential impact on water
tesouces, underground

or surface due to exca-

vation or grading work.

D. Petitioners shall consult with
all appropriate water resource

Quarterly reports.

agencies for projects In close
proximity to water resouces
Appropriate mitigation plans shail
be developed and compliance to

atl local and state watar regu-
latlons is required.

impacts to waler qua-
lity, drainage, flow, di-

fection and quantity

Federal agencies | Before and during
Local agencies construction...
Applicable state

are averted "water resource

agencies.

* The CPUC is ultimately responsible for compliance with the mitigation measures listed in this document, but shal! defer the responsibility to federal, state and
local agencies, unless otherwise designated.

403 of 682

«ao



--- page 404 ---
“~
ts
=
i]
°
ba]
>
2)
a)
ts
=z
—]
ei
bd
~]

ww

Mitigation Monitoring Table

Potentiat increase in overhead
poles and communication fines.

Noise standards for the area are
exceeded due to consiruction.

AESTHETICS

Service boxes or cabinets may
be a visual blight. Landscaping

in utility right-of-way may be
impacted by trenching.

CULTURAL RESOURCES

Cultural resources are encount-
ered during construction; resour-

ces are damaged or moved.

| risen

G. Petitioner shafl Le ecaane TRaGHSI GI REG afl neces
sary building permits for the poles.

CPUC will Inspect the overhead

H. Ail applicable nolse standards
shali be complied with by the peti

tioners.

Petitioners shall notice the
surrounding area of construc-
{tons dates and times.

MORepas oF I

ae Or eat i

er si ee a

a reports.

Poles are bullt in com-
pliance with focal safe-

ty standards. Lines
are Inspected and
maintained as safe.

Locaf agencies.

Before and during
construction.

Quarterly reports.

Noise from construc-

Locai agencies
tion is kept to levels :

that do not exceed
tocat standards.

\. All applicable aesthetic
Standards will be met by

petitioners for above-ground
factities, especially service
cabinets. Consult with focal
agencies on proper restoration of
landscaping.

J. All earthmoving that would
impact the resources shall

cease or be altered until the
petitioner retains the service
of an archaeotogist who will
propose mitigation. Thorough re-

search done prior to construction to
avoid known resources.

Quarterty reports.

Quarterly reports.

Cabinets are placed
within existing bultd-

ings. underground, or
in areas that are tand-

a agencies.

scaped so that aesthe-
tic Impacts are minimi-

zed. Landscaping res-
tofed to original form.

Local, state
and/or federal

Cultural resources that
are encountered are

not destroyed or ad-
versely Impacted.

agencies

Before and during
construction.

Before and during
construction.

 scac aR AG OSI and during construction.

404 of 682



--- page 405 ---
PROOF OF SERVICE BY MAIL

a Gr declare: .

I am over the age of 1g years, not a party to this
proceeding, and am employed by the California Public Utilities
Commission at 505 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco, California.

On f , I depositec in the mail at
ancisco, California, ac of:

47-06 -0¥3
(DECISION NUMBER OR TYPE OF HEARING)

I,

San Fr

7 6/497
(DATE OF HEARING)

(APPLICATION/CASE/OII/O R NUMBER)

in a sealed envelope, with postage prepaic, acdressec to the
last know address of each of the adcressees in the attachec
lise.
I Geclare uncer penalty of perjury that the foregoing
ané thac chis declaraticn was executec on
at San Francisco, California.

tbh Ae

*Sicnature
9/92

405 of 682



--- page 406 ---
CA-21

6/24/99

R 95-04-043
I 95-04-044

pecision: / ) -0 6 04 5

MAIL DATE: y 2/75
Copy of “ OPINION “ and order mailed to the following.

SEE ATTACHED LIST FOR APPEARANCES, STATE SERVICE
L
Count 24 J

6/18/99
lil

doc #15576 (rev. 3/4/98)

406 of 682


--- page 407 ---
kkkkkkkkkekK SERVICE LIST kkkk kk kkk

Last updated on 18-JUN-1999 by: LIL
R9504043 LIST
19504044

kk KK KKK ERK RDPRARANCES 3 * tt RR ii ie William Brown

Matthew C. Ames

WILLIAMS MALONE/WILLIAMS L. LOWERY
Attorney At Law:

1155 CONNECTICUT AVE., NW, STE. 1000
WASHINGTON DC 20036

(202) 785-0600
mames@millervaneaton.com

For: BO&MAI/IREM/NAA/NAREIT/NMHC

Randolph W. Deutsch
Attorney At Law

AT&T COMMUNICATIONS OF CALIFORNIA, INC.

795 FOLSOM STREET, ROOM 690
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94107
(415) 442-5560
deutsch@lga.att.com

Jerry Varcak

Vice President

BANK OF AMERICA

PO BOX 37000, DEPT 13892

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94137

(925) 675-1042
gerald.varcak@bankamerica.com

Jeffrey F. Beck

BECK & ACKERMAN

4 EMBARCADERO CENTER, SUITE 760
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 263-7300

jillbit@aol.com

Stephen P. Bowen

Attorney At Law

BLUMENFELD & COHEN

4 EMBARCADERO CENTER, SUITE 1170
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 394-7500
steve@technologylaw.com

For: SpectraNet International

Walter C. Finch
Executive Vice President
BOMA CALIFORNIA

1000 BROADWAY, SUITE 355
OAKLAND CA 94607-4090

SUITE 14E06

1100 PEACHTREE ST, NE
ATLANTA GA 30309-4599
For: bakersfield cellular

Debra L. Carlton

Vice President

CALIFORNIA APARTMENT ASSOCIATION
980 NINTH STREET, STE 2150
SACRAMENTO CA 95814-2741

(916) 447-7881

Darlene Clark

CALIFORNIA CABLE TELEVISION ASSN.
PO BOX 11080

OAKLAND CA 94611

(510) 428-2225

CACableTV@aol .com

Jerome Candelaria

Attorney At Law

CALIFORNIA CABLE TV ASSOCIATION

4341 PIEDMONT AVENUE, 2ND FLOOR

OAKLAND CA 94611-4715

For: CCTA, AT&T,ICG,TCG San Francisco, TCG Los
Angeles, TCG San Diego

Carmela Castellano
1535 MISSION STREET
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94103

Joshua M. King

Senior Counsel

CELLULAR ONE/DIGITAL PCS

651 GATEWAY BLVD., SUITE 1500
SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO CA 94080
(650) 827-5656

Jon Chambers

1850 M STREET, N.W. 11TH FLR.
WASHINGTON DC 20036

For: Sprint Telecommunications Venure

407 of 682



--- page 408 ---
Charles E. Born

Director, Regulatory Affairs
CITIZENS COMMUNICATIONS

7901 FREEPORT BLVD., SUITE 200
SACRAMENTO CA 95832

(916) 665-5355

cborn@czn.com

Barbara L. Snider

Attorney At Law

CITIZENS COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY
7901 FREEPORT BLVD., SUITE 100
SACRAMENTO CA 95832

(916) 665-5335

bsnider@czn.com

Louise Renne

CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO

1390 MARKET ST., SUITE 250

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

For: City of LA/Sacramento/San Carlos/San Jose/
Santa Monica/San Mateo Cnty Tel Auth/City & Cnty
San

Robert D. Herrick

City Attorney

CITY OF MORENO VALLEY

14177 FREDERICK STREET
MORENO VALLEY CA 92552-0805
(909) 413-3036

For: CITY OF MORENO VALLEY

Nick Rahe

CITY OF SANTA ANA
PO BOX 1988

SANTA ANA CA 92702

Traci Bone

JULIA M.C. FRIEDLANDER

Deputy City Attorney

CITY/COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO

1390 MARKET ST., 5TH FLOOR

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102-5408

(415) 554-4257

For: The City of LA/Sacramento/San Carlos/San
Jose/Santa Monica;San Mateo Co Telcom Auth;S.F.
City &

Terry Monroe

Vice President, State Affairs
COMPETITIVE TELECOMMUNICATIONS ASSN
1900 M STREET, N.W., SUITE 800
WASHINGTON DC 20036 ;
(202) 296-6650

tmonroe@comptel .org

~

kkkkkkkkekkek SERVICE LIST kkkKKKKKKKKKEK

E. Garth Black

Attorney At Law

COOPER, WHITE & COOPER

201 CALIFORNIA ST., 17TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 433-1900

spb1@cwclaw.com

Mark P. Schreiber

Attorney At Law

COOPER, WHITE & COOPER, LLP

201 CALIFORNIA STREET, 17TH FLOOR

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 433-1900

spbl@cwclaw.com

For: Roseville Telephone Company/Smaller
Independent LECs ,

Dhruv Khanna

Vice President, General Counsel
COVAD COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY
2330 CENTRAL EXPRESSWAY

SANTA CLARA CA 95050

(408) 490-4560
dkhanna@covad.com

Carrington Phillip

COX CALIFORNIA TELCOM INC.
1400 LAKE HEARN DRIVE NE
ATLANTA GA 30319

Richard Smith

Director, State Regulatory Affairs
COX CALIFORNIA TELCOM, LLC

2200 POWELL STREET, SUITE 795
EMERYVILLE CA 94608-2618

(510) 923-6220
richard.smith@cox.com

Karen L. Peterson

Attorney At Law

CROSBY HEAFEY ROACH & MAY

1999 HARRISON STREET, 26TH FLOOR
OAKLAND CA 94612

(510) 466-6855
klpeterson@chrm.com

Daniel M. Waggoner
DAVIS WRIGHT TERMAINE
2600 CENTURY SQUARE
1501 FOURTH AVENUE
SEATTLE WA 98101-1688

408 of 682.


--- page 409 ---
ekkkkkeeekee SERVICE LIST #88 eee RRR RK

David J. Marchant

Attorney At Law

DAVIS WRIGHT TREMAINE LLP

ONE EMBARCADERO CENTER, STE 600

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-3834

(415) 276-6568
davidmarchant@dwt.com

For: Teleport Commun.Grp,Cable Plus,

Mark P. Trinchero

Attorney At Law

DAVIS WRIGHT TREMAINE LLP

1300 SW STH AVENUE, SUITE 2300
PORTLAND OR 97201

For: ELECTRIC LIGHTWAVE

Jones Day
555 W FIFTH ST SUITE 4600
LOS ANGELES CA 90013

Shelly Bergum

Executive Director

DEAF & DISABLED TELECOM PROGRAM
1939 HARRISON STREET, SUITE 520
OAKLAND CA 94612-3532

Virginia J. Taylor

Attorney At Law

DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
400 R STREET, SUITE 3090
SACRAMENTO CA 95814-6200

(916) 445-5126

Laura H. Phillips

DOW LOHNES & ALBERTSON

1200 NEW HAMPSHIRE AVENUE, N.W.
WASHINGTON. DC 20036-6802

Penny H. Bewick

Government & Industry Affairs
ELECTRIC LIGHTWAVE, INC.

4400 NE 77TH AVENUE, PO BOX 4678
VANCOUVER WA 98662-0678

(360) 896-3211

Hal Kluis

President

EVANS TELEPHONE COMPANY
4918 TAYLOR COURT
TURLOCK CA 95382-9599

Bill Tynes

FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
131 ALBRIGHT WAY SUITE C

LOS GATOS CA 95030

Jerrey P. Gray
Attorney At Law

‘GOODIN MACBRIDE SQUERI RITCHIE & DAY LLP

505 SANSOME STREET, STE 900
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111
(415) 392-7900
jsqueri@gmssr.com

For: Mountain Celluar

John L. Clark

Attorney At Law

GOODIN MACBRIDE SQUERI RITCHIE & DAY LLP
505 SANSOME STREET, 9TH FLOOR

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 765-8443

jclark@gmssr.com

For: HTC COMMUNICATIONS, LLC

Michael B. Day

Attorney At Law
GOODIN MACBRIDE SQUERI RITCHIE & DAY LLP
505 SANSOME STREET, SUITE 900

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-3133

(415) 392-7900

mday@gmssr.com

Peter W. Hanschen "

Attorney At Law

GRAHAM AND JAMES LLP

ONE MARITIME PLAZA, SUITE 300
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 954-0258
phanschen@gj .com

Barry Pineles
Regulatory Counsel
GST TELECOM, INC.
4001 MAIN STREET
VANCOUVER WA 98663
(360) 906-7104
bpineles@gstworld.net

Susan Rossi

GTE OF CALIFORNIA INCORPORATED
LEGAL DEPARTMENT

ONE GTE PLACE, CAS500LB
THOUSAND OAKS CA 91362-3811
(805) 372-6358

susan. rossi@telops.gte.com

409 of 682



--- page 410 ---
~

- kkk aKKKKKKEK SERVICE LIST #8 8% kkk R RR RE

Schelly Jensen
Manager-Government Relations
GTE WIRELESS

12677 ALCOSTA BOULEVARD

SAN RAMON CA 94583-0811"
(510) 904-3908

Bruce M. Holdridge

Director, Government Affairs
ICG TELECOM GROUP, INC.

180 GRAND AVENUE, SUITE .1000
OAKLAND CA 94612

(510) 251-7033

K.S. Noller

Assistant General Manger
IMPERIAL IRRIGATION DISTRICT
PO BOX 937

IMPERIAL CA 92251

Earl Nicholas Selby

Attorney At Law

LAW OFFICES OF EARL NICHOLAS SELBY
418 FLORENCE STREET

PALO ALTO CA 94301-1705

(650) 323-0990

enselby@wenet .net

Kim Logue

Regulatory Analyst

LCI INTERNATIONAL TELECOM CORP.
4250 N. FAIRFAX DRIVE, 12W002
ARLINGTON VA 22203

(703) 363-4321

kim. logue@qwest .net

Terry J. Houlihan

Attorney At Law

MCCUTCHEN DOYLE BROWN & ENERSEN LLP
3 EMBARCADERO CENTER, 18TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 393-2022

thoulihanemdbe.com

William C. Harrelson
ANTHONY DITIRRO

Attorney At Law

MCI WORLDCOM

201 SPEAR STREET, 9TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105
(415) 228-1090

william. harrelson@wcom.com

Woody Trayler
MCIMETRO

2250 LAKESIDE BLVD
RICHARDSON TX 75082

Mary E. Wand

Attorney At Law
MORRISON & FOERSTER LLP
425 MARKET STREET

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105
(415) 268-7201
mwand@mofo.com

Hojoon Hwang

Attorney At Law

MUNGER TOLLES & OLSON LLP

355 S. GRAND AVE., 35TH FLOOR
LOS ANGELES CA 90071-1560
(213) 683-9150
hwanghxemto.com

Burton Gross

MUNGER, TOLLES & OLSON, LLP

33 NEW MONTGOMERY STREET 19TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105

(415) 512-4024

grossba@mto.com

Terry Murray
MURRAY & ASSOCIATES
227 PALM DRIVER
PIEDMONT CA 94610

Helen M. Mickiewicz
Legal Division

RM. 5123

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-1319
hmm@cpuc.ca.gov

Joseph R. Cocke

NORTH AMERICAN NUMBERING PLAN ADM
SUITE 349

2060-D AVENUE ARBOLES

THOUSAND OAKS CA 91362

Martin A. Mattes

Attorney At Law

NOSSAMAN GUTHNER KNOX & ELLIOTT, LLP
50 CALIFORNIA STREET, 34TH FLOOR

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-4799

(415) 398-3600

mmattes@nossaman.com

Robert J. Gloistein

Attorney At Law

ORRICK HERRINGTON & SUTCLIFFE, LLP
400 SANSOME STREET

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-3143

(415) 773-5900
rgloistein@orrick.com

410 of 682



--- page 411 ---
kkkkKkKKKKKKK SERVICE LIST **#** kee KKK KEK

David Discher

ROBERT J. MAZIQUE

Attorney At Law

PACIFIC BELL

140 NEW MONTGOMERY ST, ROOM 1517
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105

(415) 542-7747
david.discher@pactel.com

For: Pacific Bell

Ed Kolto Wininger
Attorney At Law
PACIFIC BELL

140 NEW MONTGOMERY ST., ROOM 1619
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105

(415) 545-9422 —
ed.kolto.wininger@pactel.com

Nicola Erbe

Attorney At Law
‘PACIFIC BELL

140 NEW MONTGOMERY ST., ROOM 1514
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105

(415) 542-7691
nicola.erbe@pactel.com

Louis E. Vincent

Attorney At Law

PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY

PO BOX 7442

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94120

(415) 973-2981

For: Pacific Gas and Electric Company

Michelle L. Wilson

Attorney At Law

PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY

PO BOX 7442, LAW DEPT.

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94120

(415) 973-7467

For: PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY

\

Isabelle Salgado

PACIFIC TELESIS LEGAL GROUP
2600 CAMINO RAMON, ROOM 2W802
SAN RAMON CA 94583

Peter A. Casciato

Attorney At Law

PETER A. CASCIATO, A PROF. CORP.
8 CALIFORNIA STREET, SUITE 701
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-4825
(415) 291-8661
casciato@dnai.com

For: ASSOCIATION OF DIRECTORY PUBLISHERS ~

Randall B. Lowe

PIPER & MARBURY, L.L.P.
1200 NINETEENTH STREET, NW
WASHINGTOM DC 20036

Cheryl Hills

Attorney At Law

PRIMA LEGAL SERVICES

2317 BROADWAY, SUITE 350
REDWOOD CITY CA 94063

(650) 261-0500
chills@primelegal.com

For: Cox California Telcom

Maria E. Andrade

PUBLIC ADVOCATES, INC.

1535 MISSION STREET

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94103-2500
(415) 431-7430
MariaEAndrade@hotmail.com

Daniel Weaver

SAN FRANCISCO BEAUTIFUL

41 SUTTER STREET, SUITE 709
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94104

Natalie D. Wales

Attorney At Law

SPRINT COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY L.P.
1850 GATEWAY DRIVE, 7TH FLOOR

SAN MATEO CA 94404-2467

(650) 513-2732
natalie.d.wales@mail.sprint.com

Andrew Lipman

SWIDLER BERLIN SHEREFF FRIEDMAN, LLP
3000 K ST NW STE 300

WASHINGTON DC 20007

Peter J. Stapp

Vice President Of Regulatory Policy
TCI TELEPHONY SERVICES, INC.

5619 DTC PARKWAY

ENGLEWOOD CO 80111-3000

411 of 682


--- page 412 ---
Andrew O. Isar

Director, Industry Relations
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RESELLERS ASSN.
4312 92ND AVENUE, N.W. ,
GIG HARBOR WA 98335

(253) 265-3910
aisar@harbor-group.com

Deborah Waldbaum

KAREN NOTSUND

Attorney At Law

TELEPORT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP INC
1350 TREAT BOULEVARD, STE 500
WALNUT CREEK CA 94596

M:chael A. Morris
t+gional Vice President
TELEPORT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP INC.
+ FGULATORY AND EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
. 50 TREAT BLVD.
«i UNUT CREEK CA 94596
° 20) 949-0600
- rris@tcg.com

n.omas Long

THE UTILITY REFORM NETWORK
“.. VAN NESS AVE., STE 350
. 42: FRANCISCO CA 94102
+125) 929-8879

* ,ong@turn.org

cecil O. Simpson, Jr.

vS ARMY LEGAL SERVICES AGENCY

°901 NORTH STUART STREET, SUITE 713
ARLINGTON VA 22203-1837

(703) 696-1643

simpsco@hqda. army.mil

Susan Davis Morley

WIGGINS & VILLACORTA, P.A.
2145 DELTA BOULEVARD, STE 200
TALLAHASSEE FL 32302

(850) 385-6007
wiggvill@nettally.com

Michael J. Thompson
Attorney At Law

WRIGHT & TALISMAN, PC

1200 G STREET, N.W., STE 600
WASHINGTON DC 20005

(202) 393-1200
thompson@wrightlaw.com

~

- kkekkkkkkeke SERVICE LIST *tktetk kittie

David A. Simpson

Attorney At Law

YOUNG VOGL HARLICK WILSON & SIMPSON LLP
425 CALIFORNIA ST., STE 2500

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94104

(415) 291-1970

das@bizlaw.net

For: Western Fiber telecom, LLC

David M. Wilson

Attorney At Law

YOUNG VOGL HARLICK WILSON & SIMPSON LLP
425 CALIFORNIA STREET, STE 500

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94104-2107

(415) 291-1970

kkk kkkkkkkkkekk STATE SERVICE ** eke kK KK KKK KKK

Joseph A. Abhulimen
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-E

S505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-1458
jaa@cpuc.ca.gov

Natalie Billingsley

Office of Ratepayer Advocates
RM. 4101

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

(415) 703-1368
nxb@cpuc.ca.gov

Mary Jo Borak
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-D

S05 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-1879
bor@cpuc.ca.gov

Danny Shields

Manager

CALTRANS RIGHTS-OF-WAY PROGRAMS
1120 N STREET, MS 37

SACRAMENTO CA 95814-5690

Tracey F. Pirie
Administrarive Analyst

CITY OF SANTA BARBARA

PO BOX 1990

SANTA BARBARA CA 93102-1990

412 of 682



--- page 413 ---
Jerry Jazmadarian
Telcommunications Manager
COUNTY OF PLACER

2809 SECOND STREET
AUBURN CA 95603

(530) 889-7735

Brian M. Chang

Office of Ratepayer Advocates
RM. 4205

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

(415) 703-1333
bmc@cpuc.ca.gov

Robert T. Feraru
Public Advisor Office
RM. 5303

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-2074
rtf@cpuc.ca.gov

Janice L. Grau

Legal Division

RM. 5023

50S VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-1960
jlg@cpuc.ca.gov

Risa Hernandez
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-D

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-5331
rhh@cpuc.ca.gov

Karen Jones
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-D

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-1955
kaj@cpuc.ca.gov

Ira Kalinsky

Legal Division

RM. 5027:

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-2130
kal@cpuc.ca.gov

~

kkkkkkkkekik SERVICE LIST ** eee KHKKKEK

Victoria S Kolakowski
ORA/CIB

Office of Ratepayer Advocates
RM. 4102

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

(415) 703-2245
vsk@cpuc.ca.gov

For: ROOM 4102, 3-2245

Jonathan Lakritz
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-E

S505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-2117
jol@cpuc.ca.gov

Thomas Lew

Office of Ratepayer Advocates
RM. 4205 ,

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

(415) 703-1784
tho@cpuc.ca.gov

Bill Neill

Private Citizen, Professional Engineer
PO BOX 33666

SAN DIEGO CA 92163-3666

(619) 231-1313

PROEV@MILL.NET

Barbara Ortega

Executive Division

RM. 5109

320 WEST 4TH STREET SUITE 500
LOS ANGELES CA 90013

(213) 576-7070
bho@cpuc.ca.gov

Dale Piiru

Office of Ratepayer Advocates
RM. 4101

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

(415) 703-1726
dgp@cpuc.ca.gov

Thomas R. Pulsifer
Administrative Law Judge Division
RM. 5005

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

(415) 703-2386

trp@cpuc.ca.gov

413 of 682


--- page 414 ---
~

- kkkkkkkkkkkk SERVICE LIST *** kkk kkKK KKK

Jacqueline A. Reed
Administrative Law Judge Division
RM. 5117

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

(415) 703-2935

jar@cpuc.ca.gov

Utilities And Communications Committee
SENATE ENERGY

STATE CAPITOL ROOM 408

SACRAMENTO CA 95814

Eleanor Yung Szeto
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-D

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-2253
eys@cpuc.ca.gov

Leah A. Senitte

9-1-1 Program Mgr.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DIVISION
601 SEQUOIA PACIFIC BLVD
SACRAMENTO CA 95814-0282

Allan G. Tolman

Departmentof General Services
. TELEPHONE & NETWORK SVCS.

601 SEQUOIA PACIFIC BLVD.
SACRAMENTO CA 95814

Jensen Uchida
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-D ©

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-5953
jJmu@cpuc.ca.gov

Lionel B. Wilson

Legal Division

RM. 5136

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-1642
lbw@cpuc.ca.gov

kk kkk eek keke TNFORMATION ONLY * & 8k tk ke ee

Clifford G. Rudolph

President And Chief Exec. Officer
ADVANCED TELCOM GROUP, INC.

885 N. SAN ANTONIO ROAD, SUITE R
LOS ALTOS CA 94022

(650) 559-8900

Richard C. Nelson

Director ~- Regulatory

AIRTOUCH COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

ONE CALIFORNIA STREET, 28TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-5401

(415) 658-2059

Mark J. Angell

ANGELL & ASSOCIATES

1075 ROSEWOOD DRIVE

GRAPEVINE TX 76051

(817) 329-7424

For: Digital Telecommunications Services, LLC

Glenn Stover

Attorney At Law

AT&T COMMUNICATIONS

795 FOLSOM STREET, ROOM 670
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94107
(415) 442-5550
gstover@att.com

William A. Ettinger

Attorney At Law

AT&T COMMUNICATIONS OF CALIFORNIA, INC.
795 FOLSOM STREET, ROOM 625

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94107

(415) 442-2783

ettinger@att.com

For: AT&T Communications of California, Inc.

Kurt Maass

AT&T WIRELESS SERVICES, INC.
5400 CARILLON POINT
KIRKLAND WA 98033

Mary Kruchten

BANK OF AMERICA

PO BOX 37000 DEPT 13411
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94137

M. Manuel Fishman

Attorney At Law

BARTKO ZANKEL TARRANT MILLER
900 FRONT STREET, STE 300
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 956-1900
mfishman@bztm. com

414 of 682


--- page 415 ---
~

kkakkkkekkkkek SERVICE LIST ** xe eKKaKKKK

Charles L. Best
Attorney At Law

1220 S.W. MORRISON ST.,
PORTLAND OR 97205

SUITE 805

Stephen P. Bowen

Attorney At Law

BLUMENFELD & COHEN

4 EMBARCADERO CENTER, SUITE 1170
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 394-7500
steve@technologylaw.com

James E. Pickrell
BRAND X INTERNET

927 6TH STREET

SANTA MONICA CA 90403
(310) 395-5500

Milton J. Morris,
Attorney

BROOKS FIBER COMMUNICATIONS OF SAC.

10316 PLACER LANE

SACRAMENTO CA 95827

(916) 431-5105

For: Brooks Fiber Communications of Sacramento,
Inc.

Esq.

Rachel J. Rothstein
Senior Regulatory Counsel
CABLE & WIRELESS, INC.
8219 LEESBURG PIKE
VIENNA VA 22182

(703) 734-4439

Jeff Kositsky

CAL/NEVA COMMUNITY ACTION
225 30TH ST STE 200
SACRAMENTO CA 95814

‘Traci Nutter

CALIFORNIA PAYPHONE ASSOCIATION
1866 CLAYTON ROAD, SUITE 213
CONCORD CA 94520

Jeffrey Elkins Ceo

CALTECH INTERNATIONAL TELECOM
197 JOAQUIN CIRCLE

DACVILLE CA 94526

Douglas F. Carlson

POST OFFICE BOX 12574
BERKELEY CA 94712-3574
(510) 597-9995 -
dafc@uclink4 .berkeley.edu

Heidi Sieck Williamson

Dept Of Telecommunications & Information
CITY & COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO

875 STEVENSON STREET, 5TH FLOOR

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94103

(415) 554-0811
heidi_sieck-williamson@ci.sf.ca.us

Bremda Riddick
Director .
CLEC IMPLEMENTATION

1250 BAYHILL DRIVE, STE 200
SANBRUNO CA 94066

(650) 794-2689

brenda. riddick@ren.net

Michele Tennant

COLE RAYWID BRAVERMAN

1919 PENNSYLVANIA AVE., NW.,
WASHINGTON DC 20006-3458

SUITE 200

Nancy Biagini

Cwa Staff Representative
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
411 AIRPORT BOULEVARD

BURLINGAME CA 94010

(650) 348-7303

Ken Mceldowney

Executive Director

CONSUMER ACTION

717 MARKET STREET, SUITE 310
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94103

Thomas J. Burke

CONTEL SERVICE CORPORATION
#CAS5S00 GCF

ONE GTE PLACE

THOUSAND OAKS CA 91362-3811

Bernard H. Chao

Esquire

COVAD COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY
2330 CENTRAL EXPRESSWAY
SANTA CLARA CA 95050

(408) 490-4367
bchao@covad.com

Alexander V. Netchvolodoff

Vice President Of Public Policy
COX ENTERPRISES, INC.

1225 19TH STREET NW, STE 450
WASHINGTON DC 20036-2458

415 of 682°


--- page 416 ---
Cherrie Conner
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-D

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-2767
chr@cpuc.ca.gov

Joseph Faber

Attorney

DAVIS WRIGHT TREMAINE LLP

ONE EMBARCADERO CENTER

SUITE 600

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-3834

(415) 276-6500

For: New Telco, d/b/a Sprint Telecommunications
Venture

Juanita Harris ;

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE/TELECOM TASK FORCE
ANTITRUST DIVISION NO.8104

1401 H STREET NW, STE 8000

WASHINGTON DC 20530

(202) 514-5642

For: DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

David Carter

DIALINK CORPORATION

164 E. DANA STREET
MOUNTAIN VIEW CA 94041-1508
(650) 691-9330

T.M. Eagan

Calif. Environmental & Resource Assc.
EAGAN & WARD ;

‘1024 10TH STREET, STE. 300
SACRAMENTO CA 95814-3514

Kevin P. Timpane

FIRST WORLD COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
878 ELIZABETH STREET

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94114

Esther H. Rosenthal
Regulatory Counsel

FIRSTWORLD COMMUNICATIONS

9333 GENESEE AVENUE, SUITE 200
SAN DIEGO CA 92121

(615) 552-8010

Gwen Moore

GEM COMMUNICATIONS
4201 WILSHIRE BLVD.,
LOS ANGELES CA 90010

STE 300

- RKKKKKKEEEKEE SERVICE LIST **¥ eke KKKKKKK

Regina Deangelis

Attorney At Law

GOODIN MACBRIDE SQUERI RITCHIE & DAY LLP
505 SANSOME STREET, SUITE 900

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 392-7900

For: Preferred Long Distance, Inc.

Regina M. Deangelis

Attorney At Law

GOODIN MACBRIDE SQUERI RITCHIE & DAY LLP
505 SANSOME STREET, STE 900

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 392-7900

Michael Gersick

GRATTAN GERSICK KARP MILLER
980 9TH STREET, 16TH FLOOR
SACRAMENTO CA 95814-2719

Gary Yaquinto

Vice President, Government Affairs
GST TELECOM INC.

1201 S. ALMA SCHOOL ROAD, STE 2000
MESA AZ 85210

Ken Snow
Director-Government Affairs
GST TELECOM, INC.

1340 TREAT BLVD., SUITE 100
WALNUT CREEK CA 94596

Margo Friedrich

Regulatory Affairs

GTE CALIFORNIA INCORPORATED
711 VAN NESS AVE., STE 300

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
margo.friedrich@telops.gte.com

Helen Hall

GTE CARD SERVICES INCOPORATED

5221 N. O'CONNOR BLVD., 13TH FLOOR
IRVING TX 75039

Gordon Allen

GTE CARD SERVICES INCORPORATED
1200 WALNUT HILL LANE, STE 2600
IRVING TX 75038

416 of 682



--- page 417 ---
Brenda J. Boykin

LOUIS GURMAN

GURMAN , BLASK & FREEDMAN, CHARTERED
1400 SIXTEENTH STREET, N.W., SUITE 500
WASHINGTON DC 20036

(202) 328-8200

For: Commco Tec Corporation

Leslie S. Spahnn

HEIM NOACK KELLY & SPAHNN
1121 L STREET, SUITE 100
SAXRAMENTO CA 95814

Linda L. Oliver

HOGAN & HARTSON

555 THIRTEENTH STREET, N.W.
WASHINGTON DC 20004-1109
(202) 637-5600

lol@dcl .hhlaw.com

Allan C. Hubbard, Esq.

Regulatory Counsel

POST OFFICE BOX 10804

300 WEST SERVICE ROAD

CHANTILLY VA 20153

(703) 478-5772

For: Access Network Services, Inc.

Jack Burk

President

INTEGRATED TELESERVICES, INC.
7108 N. FRESNO STREET, SUITE 300
FRESNO CA 93720

Richard Cc. Hall

INTEL CORPORATION

1900 PRAIRIE CITY RD, M/S FM4-125
FOLSOM CA 95630-9598

Lance Sentman

International Research Analyst
INTERNATIONAL TELCOM, LTD.

417 SECOND AVENUE WEST

SEATTLE WA 98119

(206) 479-2899

For: INTERNATIONAL TELCOM, LTD.

Edward W. O'Neill

Attorney At Law

JEFFER MANGELS BUTLER & MARMARO LLP
ONE SANSOME STREET, 12TH FLOOR

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94104

(415) 392-8080

ewo@jmbm.com

~

. kkkkkkkkkkkk SERVICE LIST ***k ee kK KK KEKE

Jonathan E. Canis
Attorney
KELLEY DRYE & WARREN

1200

19TH STREET, N.W., SUITE 500

WASHINGTON DC 20036

(202)
For:

Ross
BRAD

955-9600
Intermedia Communications, Inc.

A. Buntrock
E. MUTSCHELKNAUS

KELLEY DRYE & WARREN LLP

1200

19TH STREET, FIFTH FLOOR

WASHINGTON DC 20036

(202)
For:

955-9600
ACSI Local Switched Services, Inc. dba

e.spire

David Klein

KLEIN ZELMAN ROTHERMEL & DICHTER, LLP
485 MADISON AVENUE

NEW YORK NY 10022

(212)
For:

935-6020

Eagle Communications of California , LLC

Scott M. Johnson

Attorney At Law

LAW OFFICE OF SCOTT M. JOHNSON
21312 FOREST MEADOW

EL TORO CA 92630-5813

(949)
For:

855-6358
Brand X Internet

David A. Jones
LEAGUE OF CALIFORNIA CITIES

1400

K STREET

SACRAMENTO CA 95814

Thomas Mcdonald

Attorney

LEBOEUF LAMB GREENE & MACRAE
ONE EMBARCADERO CENTER

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415)
For:

951-1100
MCI Metro Access Transmission Services,

Jacqueline R. Kinney

Attorney At Law

LEGAL AND LEGISLATIVE SERVICES

2788

LAND PARK DRIVE

SACRAMENTO CA 95818

417 of 682

I


--- page 418 ---
« kkkkkkkekkeek SERVICE LIST ** xe eee KKKKKK

Terrence J. Ferguson

Senior Vice President & General Counsel
LEVEL 3 COMMUNICATIONS, LLC

3555 FARNAM STREET

OMAHA NE 68131

(402) 536-3624

General Counsel

LOS ANGELES CELLULAR TELEPHONE CO.
17785 CENTER COURT DRIVE

NORTH CERRITOS CA 90703-8575

Mark Brown

Senior Attorney |

MCI TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORP.
201 SPEAR STREET, 9TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105

(415) 978-1292

For: MCI Metro Access Transmission Services, Inc.

Denise V. Thomas

MCI WORLDCOM

2678 BISHOP DRIVE, STE 200
SAN RAMON CA 94583

Nikayla Nail

Attorney At Law

MCI WORLDCOM

201 SPEAR STREET, 9TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105
(415) 228-1150
n.nail@mci.com

Mark E Brown

JOHN A. GUTTIEREZ

MEDIAONE TELECOMMUNICATIONS OF CALIF, INC
1999 HARRISON STREET, STE 660

OAKLAND CA 94612-3517

Lonn L. Beedy

METRO ONE COMMUNICATIONS
8405 S W NIMBUS AVENUE
BEAVERTON OR 97008

Francis F. Chin

General Counsel

METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
JOSEPH P. BORT METRO CENTER

101 EIGHTH STREET

OAKLAND CA 94607-4700

(510) 464-7710

Kent Heyman, Esq.

Vice President & General Counsel
MGC COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

3165 PALMS CENTRE DRIVE

LAS VEGAS NV 89103

(702) 310-1000

Marilyn H. Ash
Associate Legal Counsel
MGC COMMUNICATIONS , INC.
3301 N. BUFFALO DRIVE
LAS VEGAS NV 89129

(702) 310-8461
mash@mgccom. com

Rocky N. Unruh

Judith A. Holiber

MORGENSTEIN & JUBELIRER LLP
ONE MARKET PLAZA

SPEAR STREET TOWER, 32ND FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105

(415) 896-0666

Lorrie Bernstein

MOSS ADAMS

1899 WEST MARCH LANE, SUITE F
STOCKTON CA 95207-6422

(209) 957-5851
Gregory M. Duncan, Ph.D.

Vice President

NATIONAL ECONOMIC RESEARCH ASSOC.
777 SOUTH FIGUEROA STREET, STE.
LOS ANGELES CA 90017

INC.
4200

Jane Emerson

Manager Of Research

NEW PARADIGM RESOURCES GROUP,
12 S. MICHIGAN AVE., 5TH FLOOR
CHICAGO IL 60603

INC

Karen M. Potkul

Attorney At Law

NEXTLINK CALIFORNIA, INC.
1924 E. DEERE AVENUE, STE 110
SANTA ANA CA 92705

(949) 417-7766
kpotkul@nextlink.net

Steven Gorosh, Esq.

_ Vice President & General Counsel

NORTHPOINT COMMUNICATIONS

222 SUTTER STREET, 7TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94108

For: NORTHPOINT COMMUNICATIONS

418 of 682


--- page 419 ---
KaKKKKKKkRKRKEK SERVICE LIST KkKkKKRKKKKKKRKK

Jose E. Guzman, Jr. D.M. Carroll

Attorney At Law PAGING SYSTEMS, INC
NOSSAMAN GUTHNER KNOX & ELLIOTT LLP ; PO BOX 4249

50 CALIFORNIA STREET, 34TH FLOOR BURLINGAME CA 94011-4249
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-4799

(415) 398-3600 Peter A. Casciato
jeg@ngke.com Attorney At Law

For: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION PETER A. CASCIATO, A PROF. CORP.
8 CALIFORNIA STREET, SUITE 701
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-4825

Audrey P. Rasmussen (415) 291-8661
O'CONNOR & HANNAN, L.L.P. casciato@dnai.com
SUITE 800 .
2919 PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE, N.W. Peter A. Casciato
wASHINGTON DC 20006-1400 : Attorney At Law
202) 887-1400 PETER A. CASCIATO, A PROF. CORP.
8 CALIFORNIA STREET, SUITE 701
Fate Riley SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-4825
:FFICE OF ASSEMPLYMAN WALLY KNOX (415) 291-8661
“TATE CAPITOL casciato@dnai.com
r ‘DM 6025 ; For: Time Warner Telecom of California, L.P.

. STRAMENTO CA 95814
~:6) 316-2042

».°e@.riley@asm.ca.gov Bonnie Y. Cheng
Director Of Operations
f:ed W. Daniel PHOENIX INTEGRATION CORPORATION
"?ION TELECOM. 7773 EAST GARVEY AVENUE., SUITE 832
i BOX 9227 ROSEMEAD CA 91770
.©WPORT BEACH CA 92658-9227 (909) 868-0808
Carl K. Oshiro Jeff Hendrix
Counselor At Law PROTEL, INC.
200 FIRST STREET, SUITE 2540 4150 KIDRON ROAD
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105 LAKELAND FL 33811
(415) 927-0158 ‘
oshirock@pacbell.net Deborah Kong
SAN JOSE MERCURY NEWS
James B. Young . 750 RIDDER PARK DRIVE
COLLEN M. O'GRADY SAN JOSE CA 95190
PACIFIC BELL (408) 920-5922
140 NEW MONTGOMERY ST. RM 1619
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105 Stephen Buel
(415) 545-0422 SAN JOSE MERCURY NEWS
750 RIDDER PARK DRIVE
Robert Mazique SAN JOSE CA 95126
Attorney
PACIFIC BELL — Keith W. Melville
140 NEW MONTGOMERY STREET Attorney At Law
15TH FLOOR SEMPRA ENERGY
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105 101 ASH STREET
(415) 542-7712 SAN DIEGO CA 92101-3017

For: Pacific Bell , (619) 699-5039
kmelville@sempra.com

419 of 682


--- page 420 ---
kkkkkkkkekkkek SERVICE LIST KakkKkKKKKKK KKK

David M. Norris

Attorney At Law
‘SIERRA PACIFIC POWER COMPANY
6100 NEIL ROAD, PO BOX 10100
RENO NV 89520-0024

(775) 834-4208
dnorris@sppc.com

Linda Burton

SIERRA TELEPHONE

PO BOX 219

OAKHURST CA 93644-0219

Carol B. Henningson

Attorney At Law

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY
2244 WALNUT GROVE AVE.,

ROSEMEAD CA 91770

(626) 302-1911

Jeffrey M. Pfaff

Attorney At Law

SPRINT PCS ~ LEGAL/REGULATORY
4900 MAIN STREET, 11TH FLOOR
KANSAS CITY MO 64112

(816) 559-1912

Thomas K. Braun

STEPTOE & JOHNSON, LLP
2244 WALNUT GROVE AVENUE
ROSEMEAD CA 91770

(818) 302-4413
brauntk@sce.com

Charles H.N. Kallenbach
Attorney

SWIDLER & BERLIN, CHARTERED
3000 K STREET, NW., SUITE 300
WASHINGTON DC 20007

(202) 424-7715

For: L.D. Services, Inc.

James Falvey

Attorney

SWIDLER & BERLIN, CHARTERED
3000 K STREET, NW., SUITE 300
WASHINGTON DC 20007

(202) 424-7706

For: GST Lightwave (CA), Inc.

Richard M. Rindler

Attorney .

SWIDLER & BERLIN, CHARTERED
3000 K STREET, NW., SUITE 300
WASHINGTON DC 20007

(202) 424-7500
For: WorldCom Technologies, Inc.

Lawrence A. Walke

Attorney At Law

SWIDLER BERLIN SHEREFF FRIEDMAN LLC
3000 K STREET, NW, SUITE 300
WASHINGTON DC 20007

(202) 424-7500

For: DSLnet COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

Phyllis Whitten

SWIDLER BERLIN SHEREFF FRIEDMAN, LLC
3000 K STREET, N.W., SUITE 300
WASHINGTON DC 20007-5116

(202) 424-7500

Andrew D. Lipman

KATHLEEN L. GREENMAN

SWIDLER BERLIN SHEREFF FRIEDMAN, LLP
3000 K ST., N.W., SUITE 300
WASHINGTON DC 20007

(202) 945-6922

Carol Critchlow-Bentley

SWIDLER BERLIN SHEREFF FRIEDMAN, LLP
3000 K STREET, N.W., STE. 300
WASHINGTON DC 20007

(202) 424-7793

Louise Beale

Consultant
TECHNOLOGIES MANAGEMENT, INC.
PO DRAWER 200
WINTER PARK FL 32790-0200
(407) 740-8575

Julie Richey

Marketing Director

TEL COM PLUS

5251 110TH AVE. NORTH, STE 118
CLEARWATER FL 33760

(813) 572-7832

Mark O'Krent

TELEPHONE CONNECTION OF LOS ANGELES
9911 WEST PICO BLVD., STE. 680

LOS ANGELES CA 90035-2710

420 of 682


--- page 421 ---
Mike Freedman

Regional Business Manager
TELIGENT, INC. ,

111 BROADWAY,:- SUITE 1300

OAKLAND CA 94607-5500

Terri Natoli

CAROLYN SHUP, ESQ.

Esquire

TELIGENT, INC.

8065 LEESBURG PIKE, STE 400
VIENNA VA 22180

Edwin D. Jones

TESCO

355 STARLING ROAD
MILL VALLEY CA 94941
(415) 383-1825

Patricia J Osorio

THE GREENLINING INSTITUTE
785 MARKET ST 3RD FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94103-2003

Kenneth F. Melley, Jr. .
Vice President Of Regulatory Affairs
U.S. LONG DISTANCE, INC.

9311 SAN PEDRO, SUITE 300

SAN ANTONIO TX 78216

(210) 525-9009

Steve Page

US DATA HIGHWAY CORP.
1113 HOPKINS WAY
PLEASANTON CA 94566
(925) 454-8624

Michael Shames

Attorney At Law

UTILITY CONSUMERS' ACTION NETWORK
1717 KETTNER BLVD., SUITE 101

SAN DIEGO CA 92101-2532

(619) 696-6966

mshames@ucan.org

Glen Carolo

VALLEY COMMUNICATIONS INCORPORATED
47221 FREMONT BOULEVARD

FREMONT CA 94538

(510) 659-9955 X314
gcarolo@valleycom.com

Bruce J. Weston
Attorney At Law

169 WEST HUBBARD AVENUE
COLUMBUS OH 43215-1439

~

kkkk kK KEKE SERVICE LIST *# te RR Re

Kathleen Villacorta

Attorney

WIGGINS & VILLACORTA, P.A.

POST OFFICE BOX 1657

S501 EAST TENNESSEE STREET, SUITE B
TALLAHASSEE FL 32302

(904) 222-1534

For: Business Discount Plan, Inc. d/b/a L.D.
Discount Plan

David Wilner
PO BOX 2340
NAVATO CA 94948-2340

‘Maia Ettinger

Legal Director

WORKING ASSETS FUNDING SERVICE, INC.
101 MARKET STREET, NO. 700

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105

(415) 369-2084

Walter Mcgee

WORKING ASSETS FUNDING SERVICE
701 MONTGOMERY ST., SUITE 400
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

Rachelle B. Chong

WENDY CHOW/COUDERT BORTHERS

XL NETWORKS, INC.

4 EMBARCADERO CENTER, SUITE 3300
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 986-1300

For: XL NETWORKS, INC.

Rachelle B. Chong

XL NETWORKS, INC.

4 EMBARCADERO CENTER, SUITE 3300
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 986-1300

David A. Simpson

Attorney At Law

YOUNG VOGL HARLICK WILSON & SIMPSON LLP

425 CALIFORNIA ST., STE 2500

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94104

(415) 291-1970 :

das@bizlaw.net

For: Bakersfield Cellular Telephone Company

421 of 682



--- page 422 ---
pw)

NETWORK PLUS, INC.
234 COPELAND STREET
QUINCT CA 02169

(1)
EAGLE COMMUNICATIONS OF CALIFORNIA, LLC

60 EAST 56TH STREET
NEW YORK NY 10022

(I)
CAMPUSLINK COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS, INC.

1530 EISENHOWER PLACE
ANN ARBOR MI 48108

(1)
SEREN INNOVATIONS, INC.

15 SOUTH 5TH STREET, SUITE 500
MINNEAPOLIS MN 55402

“(1)

700 WILSHIRE BLVD, 7TH FLOOR
LOS ANGELES CA 90017

(I)

XL NETWORKS, INC.
909 VIA MIROLA
PALOS VERDES ESTATES CA 90274

(1)

HTC COMMUNICATIONS, LLC
2131 N LAMER STREET
BURBANK CA 91504

(1)

TRIAD COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
2420 SAND HILL ROAD
MENLO PARK CA 94025

(IT)

US DATA HIGHWAY CORP.
1113 HOPKINS WAY
PLEASANTON CA 94566

422 of 682



--- page 423 ---
Page 1 of 1
Attachment 05 - Property Owner's Authorization
Please reference “MASTER LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR WIRELESS FACILITIES ON CITY POLES IN THE
RIGHT-OF-WAY” dated 3/1/2022 between the City of San Mateo and Crown Castle Fiber LLC.
423 of 682

--- page 424 ---
424 of 682

--- page 425 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO >
ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION FORM INSTRUCTIONS

The information provided by the applicant on this form will enable City staff to
understand the proposed project and to prepare any necessary environmental
documents. Careful completion of this form will enable staff to more
efficiently and quickly process your application. -

Answers to the 34 numbered questions should be entered in the space provided.
At the end of each question, circle YES or NO. If you circle YES, please
complete all subsections of that question. If you circle NO proceed to the next
numbered question. All questions must be answered to complete your
application. Extra sheets may be attached if longer responses are necessary.

Please contact Planning Staff at (650) 522-7212 if you! have any. questions in
completing this form.

EXISTING SITE & DEVELOPMENT
1. Site area (sq. ft. or acres): Back of sidewalk - 2x2 sq ft

2. Zoning: __ R1C |

3. Is there existing development on site? | _ YES

-a. Existing building floor area (gross sq; ft.):

b. Existing building coverage:

c... Number of existing off-street parking spaces:
d. Number of existing bicycle parking spaces:
e. Number of existing structures on the site:

f. Existing use (# of units of residential, or type of use and sq. ft. of use if commercial):

4. Are structures or portions thereof, to be removed? . YES

a. Square footage to be removed: |

5. Is the property encumbered by any easements? YES
!ACDD\PLANNING\FORMS\ENVLNG2.DOC 12/01/98

425 of 682


--- page 426 ---
a. Please attach title report and map showing all easements.

6. Describe, in general, the existing uses to the:
North of the site: _ School .
South of the site: _ School.
East of the site: __ Residential _
West of the site: _School__

PROJECT DESCRIPTION — |
7. |s the project a residential development? = - YES :

Unit description:

| Type of Unit | Number of Units

ipeseom |
[aBedoom |
‘[aBedoom |
roma

b. Total floor area (gross sq. ft.):

a.

c. Total lot coverage (sq. ft.) if site is zoned R4-D, R5-D or R6-D:

d. Number of off-street parking spaces provided:

es
[Compact |

Total

e. Number of bicycle parking facilities (9' x 18' areas) provided:
f. Is the proposed project RENTAL or OWNERSHIP? (circle one)
g. Approximate range of sales prices or rental rates:

h. Number of stories:

i. Building height in feet:

j. Building setbacks: Front Left Side Right Side Rear
-2- |

426 of 682


--- page 427 ---
Crown Castle small wireless 
 on an existing
in PROW
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
427 of 682

--- page 428 ---
No changes in patterns, scales, or character. 
No changes in any scenic views.
Wireless Communication Facilities Permit
required for all wireless facilities installed in San Mateo. 
428 of 682

--- page 429 ---
f. Land area to be disturbed (sq. ft.):
g. Proposed erosion control measures:

h. Proposed measures to prevent failure of slopes:

17, Does the site contain a known landslide area, soil creep, expansive soils or othpememidence
of geologic failure? a, YES.

a, Describe nature and location(s):

18. Does the site contain an unusual geologic landform, such as a ridge line or rock ¢ p?
ves [no ]

a. Describe feature:
b. Describe any proposed modification:

WATER/HYDROLOGY
19. Does the site contain or abut a natural drainage channel or streambed? YES [ NO) (No)

a. Describe location(s):

20. Describe any proposed alterations to such channel(s) or stream bed(s): -

21.Does the site abut the Bay, Marina Lagoon, or a slough? ; YES

a. Describe any proposed alterations to such water feature or shoreline.

22.Describe the expected amount of water use (except for residential development of fewer
than 4 units):

Domestic: N/A _galday Peak Use: N/A gal/day
Commercial: N/A gal/day Peak Use: N/A: gal/day
-5-

429 of 682


--- page 430 ---
N/A

Expected fire flow demand: gal/min.
Daily sewer discharge (over 30 fixtures only): N/A gal/day

VEGETATION

23.Will the project remove any trees that are 6° or greater in diameter at a poiptedeabove
grade, or a substantial amount of natural plant cover? YES.

a. List the number, types and sizes of all trees existing on the site, and ail of these to be

removed. (Attach another sheet if more space is needed.)

b. Describe the existing natural brush and groundcover features of the site and any

proposed reduction.

EXTERNAL IMPACTS

24.Will the proposed project generate dust, smoke, fumes or odors, excluding fre during
construction? oe Co YES

a. Describe emission(s), extent and duration:

25.Will the project involve the use, storage or disposal of potentially toxic or hazardous

materials, including solvents, acids, pesticides, herbicides, or radioactive substaye
YES

a. Detail type(s), quantities, storage and disposal procedures:

26.is the project. expected to generate noise .in sufficient levels to be heard beyond the
boundaries of the site? YES (no)

a. Describe noise generating activities:

b, Daily time duration:

UTILITIES/PUBLIC WORKS ;
27.Will the proposed project require extension or alteration of existing electrical traremission
and distribution facilities? YES (no)

a.. Give details of extension:

430 of 682


--- page 431 ---
b. Describe location of new electric transformer, if required: : -

28. Are any off-site improvements proposed (such as sewer or storm drain extensiog
YESLNO)

a. Please describe nature and location:

29, Will the proposed project incorporate any measures to conserve electricity, or water
| | | YES

a. Please describe:

30.Are new curb cuts proposed or existing curb cuts eliminated? . YES
a. Describe number and location(s):

31.Are new streets, or driveways in excess of 300 feet in length, to be developed within the

proposed project? YES

a. Indicate whether private or public:
b. List lengths and widths:
c. Maximum grade (%):

32. Will proposed structures be protected by fire sprinklers? YES

DISPLACEMENT
33. Will existing businesses or residents be displaced by the proposed development?

VES

a. Describe type(s) of business(es) or numbers of residents to be displaced:

431 of 682


--- page 432 ---
Pole
Pole
2 '
10'
Jason Camarena
Jason Camarena
1 Park Pl, Suite 300
CA
Dublin
8"
8"
.44'
4"
6"
.17
(925) 201-5806
94568
432 of 682

--- page 433 ---
RF Compliance Report 
 
433 of 682

--- page 434 ---
RF EMISSIONS COMPLIANCE REPORT
Prepared for:
Crown Castle
1 Park Place
Dublin, CA 94568
Site:
CA_SF_SANMATEO_151 
1001 Bermuda Dr
San Mateo, CA 94403
, 
March 2 , 2023
This site will be in compliance with
FCC Regulations and MPE Limits:
Crown Castle Is 0.894% of General Population (GP) Limit
(0.179% of Occupational (Occ) Limit)
Certification
I have reviewed this RF Emissions
assessment report and believe it to be both
true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge.
Analysis completed using Waterford's NIERTool© software
Only clients and client representatives are authorized to provide input data through the Waterford web
portal. In securing that authorization, clients and client representatives warrant the accuracy of all input
data.  Waterford Consultants, LLC attests to the accuracy of the engineering calculations. Waterford also
attests that the results of those engineering calculations are correctly summarized in this report. 
©Copyright 2005-2023 Waterford Consultants, LLC. 
All rights reserved
7430 New Technology Way, Suite 150               Frederick, Maryland 21703               (703) 596-1022 Phone               www.waterfordconsultants.com
Control # 98012
434 of 682

--- page 435 ---
RF EMISSIONS COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
Site:
CA_SF_SANMATEO_151
1001 Bermuda Dr
San Mateo, CA 94403
Compliance Statement
Subject site COMPLIES with Radiofrequency Radiation Exposure Limits of 47 C.F.R. §§ 1.1307(b)(3) and
1.1310.
Ground Level Site Summary
Predicted cumulative RF power density at  ground  level  as  a  percentage  of  the  FCC General Population
limits.  This result is the sum of the maximum ground level MPE for each RF emitter by band of operation.
Sites below 100% are in full compliance.
Source
Predicted Power Density, % of Limit (GP)
Verizon 28000 MHz
0.894 %
Sum of Listed Sources
0.894%
Antenna Level Site Summary
Predicted cumulative RF power  density  at  elevated  levels near the antenna(s)  has  been  evaluated  with
respect to  the FCC General Population limits. The mitigation measures recommended herein are necessary to
achieve and  maintain compliance at the site based on the following assessment:
Page 1 of 13 - Control # 98012
435 of 682

--- page 436 ---
Antenna Level Assessment
Signage directives for this report are specified in the Elevation Detail Plot which depicts predicted RF power density
near the antenna as a percentage of the FCC General Population limits. Areas exceeding 100% of the General
Population limits are depicted as blue. Any work required within areas exceeding 100% of the limits should be
coordinated with wireless operators or performed by personnel trained in RF safety and equipped with personal
protection equipment. Workers in areas depicted as  green or clear will not be exposed to hazardous levels of RF
energy and no action is required to maintain  a safe working environment.
As shown in the Elevation Detail Plot, the following keep-back distances to the FCC limits have been determined:
Reference Level
Maximum Level:
General Population (%)
Maximum Level:
Occupational (%)
Ground Level
0.894
0.179
Antenna Level
368.784
73.757
Distance to FCC 100% MPE Limits at Antenna Level
- Vertical Stand Off Distance (General Population) 3 feet
- Vertical Stand Off Distance (Occupational) N/A
- Horizontal Stand Off Distance (General Population) 5 feet
- Horizontal Stand Off Distance (Occupational) N/A
Distance to FCC 100% MPE Limits at Ground Level
- Horizontal Stand Off Distance (General Population) N/A
- Horizontal Stand Off Distance (Occupational) N/A
.
Page 2 of 13 - Control # 98012
436 of 682

--- page 437 ---
RF Alerting Signage
The "Notice" sign must be posted near the bottom of the pole or on the shroud any time there is a zone near the
antenna that exceeds the General Population limit. This sign should be mounted where it is easily visible to workers
on the ground as they approach the pole. Suggested locations include on the pole about 8-10¶ from the ground or on
the front of the equipment shroud if it is mounted on the pole.
The "Caution" sign must be posted on the antenna any time there is an area that exceeds the FCC General Public
exposure limit. The keep-back distance for the General Population limit must be filled in on the sign as depicted
below. This sign must be mounted on or just below the radiating antenna so that it is maximally visible to workers
approaching the antenna in a lift or bucket truck. If there is more than one radiating antenna and they are less than 5¶
apart then the sign should be mounted on or near the lower antenna. If there are multiple radiating antennas and they
are >5¶ apart then separate signs should be mounted on or near each antenna.
.
Page 3 of 13 - Control # 98012
437 of 682

--- page 438 ---
Technical Framework: Basis for Compliance Statement
The compliance framework is derived from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Rules and
Regulations for preventing human exposure in excess of the applicable Maximum Permissible Exposure
(³MPE´) limits listed in Table 1 of 47 C.F.R. § 1.1310. Calculations using input data provided to Waterford
by client or client's representative numerically confirm the subject site can operate at a 100% duty cycle
without exceeding the FCC MPE limits in areas of uncontrolled access.
At this site, the radio frequency (RF) power density resulting from each transmitter at any location may be
expressed as a percentage of the frequency-specific limits and added to determine if 100% of the exposure
limit has been exceeded. The FCC Rules define two tiers of permissible exposure differentiated by  the
situation in which the exposure takes place and/or the status of the individuals who are subject to exposure.
General Population / Uncontrolled exposure limits apply to  those situations in which persons may not be
aware of the presence of electromagnetic energy, where exposure is not employment related, or where persons
cannot exercise control over their exposure. Occupational / Controlled exposure limits apply to situations in
which persons are exposed as a consequence of their employment, have been made fully  aware of the
potential  for  exposure,  and  can  exercise control  over  their  exposure.  Based  on  the criteria for  these
classifications, continuous exposure to RF power density levels below the FCC General Population limits is
not hazardous. The FCC General Population limits are 5 times more restrictive than the Occupational limits.
Frequency
(MHz)
Limits for General Population/ 
Uncontrolled Exposure
Limits for Occupational/
Controlled Exposure
Power Density
(mW/cm2)
Averaging Time
(minutes)
Power Density
(mW/cm2)
Averaging Time
(minutes)
30-300
0.2
30
1
6
300-1500
f/1500
30
f/300
6
1500-100,000
1.0
30
5.0
6
In situations where the predicted MPE exceeds the General Population threshold in an accessible area because
of emissions from multiple transmitters, FCC licensees that contribute greater than 5% of the aggregate MPE
share responsibility for mitigation.
For any location where radiofrequency (RF) power densities exceed 100% MPE of the General Population
limits, access controls with appropriate RF alerting signage must be available to be visible upon approach
from any direction to provide notification of potential conditions within these areas. Subject to other site
security requirements, occupational personnel should be trained in RF safety and equipped with personal
protective equipment (e.g. RF personal monitor) designed for safe work in the vicinity of RF emitters. 
Waterford Consultants, LLC recommends that any work activity in these designated areas or in front of any
transmitting antennas be coordinated with the wireless operators.
Page 4 of 13 - Control # 98012
438 of 682

--- page 439 ---
Predictive Modeling
Based on the computational guidelines  set  forth in  FCC  Office of Engineering and  Technology,  Bulletin 65
("OET65"), Waterford Consultants, LLC has developed software to predict the overall MPE possible at any
particular location given the spatial orientation and operating  parameters  of  multiple  RF  sources. These
theoretical results represent worst-case predictions as emitters are assumed to be operating at 100% duty
cycle.
The tabular analysis in this report calculates the spatial peak power density produced at ground level from
each RF emitter. The far field power density in milliWatts per square centimeter is expressed as Sff = 33.4 x
ERP / R2 where ERP is the Effective Radiated Power along a specific azimuth in Watts and R is the distance
from the antenna radiation center in meters. The antenna manufacturer¶s horizontal and vertical radiation
patterns have been considered in determining the ERP in any direction. This computation is based on the
maximum ERP and includes a 1.6-fold increase in field strength due to ground reflection. The result provides a
conservative estimate of spatially averaged power density at ground level and may be higher than predicted
MPE in the graphical plots described below.
As the limits are frequency dependent, the contribution of any RF source at a specific location may be
expressed as a percentage of the FCC General Population MPE limits at the associated operating frequency.
The percentage contributions from all RF sources are added to determine the overall exposure level. If this
result is less than 100%, the predicted cumulative exposure level is below the General Population limits set
forth in the FCC Rules. The cumulative MPE depicted on the summary page is the summation of maximum
MPE values for each emitter regardless of antenna orientation.
A graphical plot of calculated spatially averaged RF power density, based on the Cylindrical Model as
described in OET65, predicts spatially averaged MPE conditions at areas in near proximity to the antenna. In
the vertical display, predicted MPE is depicted at the center of the 6 ft vertical zone that a person could
occupy.
Page 5 of 13 - Control # 98012
439 of 682

--- page 440 ---
Qualifications of Waterford
With more than 100 team-years of experience, Waterford Consultants, LLC [Waterford] provides technical
consulting services to clients in the radio communications and antenna locating industry. Waterford retains
professional engineers who are placed in responsible charge of the processes for analysis.
Waterford is familiar with 47 C.F.R. § § 1.1307(b)(3) and 1.1310 along with the general Rules, Regulations and
policies of the FCC. Waterford work  processes incorporate all  specifications of FCC Office of Engineering
and Technology, Bulletin 65 ("OET65"), from the website: www.fcc.gov/oet/rfsafety  and follow criteria
detailed in 47 CFR § 1.1310 "Radiofrequency radiation exposure Limits".
Within the technical and regulatory  framework detailed above, Waterford developed tools  according to
recognized and generally accepted good engineering practices. Permissible exposure limits are band specific,
and the Waterford computerized modeling tools correctly calculate permissible exposure based on the band(s)
specified in the input data. Only clients and client representatives are authorized to provide input  data
through the Waterford web portal. In securing that authorization, clients and client representatives attest to
the accuracy of all input data.
Waterford Consultants, LLC attests to the accuracy  of the engineering calculations computed by  those
modeling tools. Furthermore, Waterford attests that the results of those engineering calculations are correctly
summarized in this report.
Certification
My stamp and signature on the cover indicates that I am fully aware of and familiar with the Rules and
Regulations of both the Federal Communications Commissions (FCC) and the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration (OSHA) with regard to Human Exposure to Radio Frequency Radiation, specifically in
accordance with FCC's OET Bulletin 65. I have reviewed this Radio Frequency Exposure Assessment report
and believe it to be both true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
Page 6 of 13 - Control # 98012
440 of 682

--- page 441 ---
Antenna Inventory
#
Operator
Make
Model
Freq
(MHz)
Az
(deg)
Tilt
(deg)
HorBW
(deg)
Ant
(ft)
TPO
(w)
Paths
Loss
(db)
Ant
Gain
Radiated
Power (W)
RC
AGL
(ft)
1 Verizon
ERICSSON
SON_SM6705 CM1 02.07.22 28GHz VZW
28000
0
0
4
1.312
0.294401
4
0
26.14dBd 794.330 EIRP
23.083
2 Verizon
ERICSSON
SON_SM6705 CM1 02.07.22 28GHz VZW
28000
120
0
4
1.312
0.294401
4
0
26.14dBd 794.330 EIRP
23.083
3 Verizon
ERICSSON
SON_SM6705 CM1 02.07.22 28GHz VZW
28000
240
0
4
1.312
0.294401
4
0
26.14dBd 794.330 EIRP
23.083
Page 7 of 13 - Control # 98012
441 of 682

--- page 442 ---
ELEVATION DETAIL
Predicted MPE depicted at the center of the 6 ft vertical zone that a person could occupy
Page 8 of 13 - Control # 98012
442 of 682

--- page 443 ---
TOP DOWN  DETAIL
Page 9 of 13 - Control # 98012
443 of 682

--- page 444 ---
TOP DOWN  DETAIL
Page 10 of 13 - Control # 98012
444 of 682

--- page 445 ---
GROUND LEVEL MPE BY RF EMITTER
The maximum ground level MPE along the azimuth of orientation for each RF emitter by band  of  operation  
is   listed   below.   The   computational   approach   is   described   in  the   Predictive   Modeling   section.  
The  maximum  MPE  by  operator  and  band  is  contributive  to  the  cumulative  ground  level  MPE
summary table presented above.
Verizon
CA_SF_SANMATEO_151 
ERICSSON - SON_SM6705 CM1 02.07.22 28GHz VZW 0° Sector
Maximum Exposure Limit - 28000 MHz
Limit (GP):
1000.000
W/cm^2
EiRP
Height
Downtilt
(Watts)
794.330
(feet)
23.083
(Degrees)
0
Maximum power density at ground level:
8.943
W/cm^2
Highest percentage of Maximum Exposure Limit:
0.894 %
Page 11 of 13 - Control # 98012
445 of 682

--- page 446 ---
Verizon
CA_SF_SANMATEO_151 
ERICSSON - SON_SM6705 CM1 02.07.22 28GHz VZW 240° Sector
Maximum Exposure Limit - 28000 MHz
Limit (GP):
1000.000
W/cm^2
EiRP
Height
Downtilt
(Watts)
794.330
(feet)
23.083
(Degrees)
0
Maximum power density at ground level:
8.943
W/cm^2
Highest percentage of Maximum Exposure Limit:
0.894 %
Page 12 of 13 - Control # 98012
446 of 682

--- page 447 ---
Verizon
CA_SF_SANMATEO_151 
ERICSSON - SON_SM6705 CM1 02.07.22 28GHz VZW 120° Sector
Maximum Exposure Limit - 28000 MHz
Limit (GP):
1000.000
W/cm^2
EiRP
Height
Downtilt
(Watts)
794.330
(feet)
23.083
(Degrees)
0
Maximum power density at ground level:
8.943
W/cm^2
Highest percentage of Maximum Exposure Limit:
0.894 %
Page 13 of 13 - Control # 98012
447 of 682

--- page 448 ---
Noise Compliance Report 
448 of 682

--- page 449 ---
engineers, 
inc.
 
CONSULTING 
 
DESIGN 
 
FIELD 
ENGINEERING
SERVICES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
447 Sutter St, Ste. 516
San Francisco, CA 94108
415.660.5940 (TEL) 
www.acgeng.com 
April 26, 2022 
To whom it may concern, 
I, Antonio C. Jakosalem (CA P.E. LIC. E15401) have reviewed the noise 
emission analysis of the Ericsson 6705 3-radio configuration cluster nodes 
in the City of San Mateo, by Jeffrey K. Pack dated April 6, 2022.  I found 
it to be technically accurate and in compliance with the standards 
contained in Chapter 7.30 of the City of San Mateo Municipal Code, 
Ref. (a).  I herewith certify that report to be correct, with my stamp and 
seal. 
 
Please process Mr. Pack
ort for permit review as if it was written by 
a P.E. Please call or email for questions.  
Very truly yours, 
 
Antonio C. Jakosalem, P.E 
tony@acgeng.com 
 
 
Principal 
449 of 682

--- page 450 ---
ACOUSTICAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA 
NATIONAL COUNCIL OF ACOUSTICAL CONSULTANTS 
April 6, 2022
Crown Castle 
1 Park Place 
Dublin, CA  94568 
Subject: 
Noise Emission Analysis, Ericsson 6705 3 Radio Configuration
Cluster Node Sites,
San Mateo
This report presents the results of a noise emission analysis of the Ericsson 6705 
radio configuration cluster nodes in the City of San Mateo. The purpose of this
analysis was to determine the minimum distances necessary from any cluster node 
installation to the nearest most noise sensitive property that will result in 
compliance with the standards contained in Chapter 7.30 of the City of San Mateo 
Municipal Code, Ref. (a).
Summary
The results of this analysis reveal that the minimum distance from the face of the nearest 
radio unit on a tilt bracket cluster system to a residential receiver location needs to be 21 
inches.  This is equivalent to 37 inches from the center of the pole.
Noise Standards - City of San Mateo Municipal Code 
The 
noise 
standards 
of 
Chapter 
7.30 
of 
the 
City 
of 
San 
Mateo 
Municipal Code limits 
noise 
from 
stationary 
noise 
sources 
at 
noise 
sensitive 
receiver locations, such as residential land use. 
The applicable Code 
section is shown on the following page. The most stringent standard is the 50 
dBA limit applied to nighttime noise generation in Noise Zone 1 and is used 
herein as the basis for this analysis. 
________________________________________________________________________
Ref. (a) City of San Mateo Municipal Code, Chapter 7.30
Noise Regulations, Subsection 7.3.040
Maximum Permissible Sound Levels, Ordinance 2004-16
Acoustical Consultants
450 of 682

--- page 451 ---
- 2 -
7.30.030 DESIGNATED NOISE ZONES. 
The properties hereinafter described are hereby assigned the following noise zones: 
Noise Zone 1. All property in any single family residential zone (including adjacent parks 
and open space) as designated on the City's zoning map prepared pursuant to the 
provisions of Title 27, or any revisions thereto. 
Noise Zone 2. All property in any commercial/mixed residential, multi-family residential, 
specific plan district or PUD as designated on the City's zoning map prepared pursuant to 
the provisions of Title 27, or any revisions thereto. 
Noise Zone 3. All property in any commercial or central business district as designated 
on the City's zoning map prepared pursuant to the provisions of Title 27, or any revisions 
thereto. 
Noise Zone 4. All property in any manufacturing or industrial zone as designated on the 
City's zoning map prepared pursuant to the provisions of Title 27, or any revisions 
thereto. 
(Ord. No. 2004-16 § 1.) 
7.30.040 MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE SOUND LEVELS. 
(a) It is unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated any source of sound at
any location within the City or allow the creation of any noise on property owned, leased,
occupied or otherwise controlled by such person, which causes the noise level when
measured on any other property to exceed:
(1) The noise level standard for that property as specified in Table 7.30.040 for a
cumulative period of more than 30 minutes in any hour;
(2) The noise level standard plus five dB for a cumulative period of more than 15 minutes
in any hour;
(3) The noise level standard plus 10 dB for a cumulative period of more than five minutes
in any hour;
(4) The noise level standard plus 15 dB for a cumulative period of more than one minute
in any hour; or
(5) The noise level standard or the maximum measured ambient level, plus 20 dB for any
period of time.
451 of 682

--- page 452 ---
- 3 -
(b) If the measured ambient level for any area is higher than the standard set in Table
7.3.40, then the ambient shall be the base noise level standard for purposes of subsection
(a)(1) of this section. In such cases, the noise levels for purposes of subsections (a)(2)
through (a)(5) of this section shall be increased in five dB increments above the ambient.
Table 7.30.040
Noise Level Standards
Noise Zone
7:00 am to 10:00 pm
10:00 pm to 7:00 am
Noise Zone 1
60 dBA
50 dBA
Noise Zone 2
60 dBA
55 dBA
Noise Zone 3
60
60
Noise Zone 4
70
65
* Source: Adapted from "The Model Community Noise Control Ordinance," Office of
Noise Control, California Department of Health.
(Ord. No. 2004-16 § 1.) 
Since the radios 
Equipment and Analytical Baseline Descriptions 
The planned radios are Ericsson 6705 units that are cooled using convection cooling 
rather than fans.  The noise level specification is no higher than 6.0 Bels of Sound Power.  
6.0 Bels equals 60 decibels.  The Sound Power rating must be converted to Sound 
Pressure and the emitted sound spectrum must be converted to A-weighted decibels.  
Sound Pressure must also have a distance associated with it.   
The A-weighted Sound Pressure Level is 53.5 dBA @ 12 in.
For the purposes of this study, we are using 53.5 dBA at 12 in. from the center of the unit 
as the worst-case noise emission reference level.  In addition, we are assuming that the 
53.5 dBA sound level is emitted equally in all directions around the unit as there are no 
this report in Appendix A.  
452 of 682

--- page 453 ---
- 4 -
There is one cluster node pole installations used. The installation will have three radios 
typically spaced equally around the perimeter of the pole forming an equilateral triangle.  
The angle between each unit is 60°.  The distance from the face of one unit to the face of 
another unit is 28 in.
The tilt bracket mount cluster is arranged such that the diameter of the circle created
by the radios is 32 inches.   
Below is a diagram of the typical pole mounting systems provided by the project sponsor.  
Note that the circle shown in the graphic represents the pole, not the circle created by the 
culations herein 
The most noise impacted location would be along a line normal to one of the three radios. 
The distances from the two farther radios would be equidistant to the receiver 
location that is along the normal path.
Calculations
Noise from a stationary source reduces at a rate of: 
10(r1/r2) where, rx = distance. 
For a doubling of the distance, r1 = 2 and r2 = 1.  Thus, 20log10(2/1) = 6.
453 of 682

--- page 454 ---
- 5 -
Note that sound levels in the human environment are described using A-weighted 
decibels, notated as dBA.  A-weighting is a frequency filtering network applied to noise 
data to replicate the human response to various frequencies.  When describing or 
reporting decibels in terms of change (increases, decreases), the A is dropped from the 
nomenclature as the weighting network is irrelevant in the mathematics of decibels.   
Decibels are added using the formula: 
dBsum = 10log10(10(SL1/10) + 10(SL2/10)
(SLx/10))
For example, 45.0 dB + 42.0 dB = 46.8 dB.   
Because of the nature of sound, noise and the environment, decibels are usually rounded 
to a whole value as 10th
difference in 2 decibels and usually only under controlled situations.   
The calculation methodology uses the following descriptors:
The angle between two radios is 60°.
The distance from the nearest radio (Radio 1) to the receiver (point A) is line segment A.   
The distances from Radio 2 or Radio 3 to Point A are designated as D. 
The radius of the circle (radio unit to center of pole) is r. 
The distance from the center of the circle/pole to the chord (straight line) between Radio 
2 and Radio 3 is B. 
The angle subtended by the radius and the chord is 30°.  
B = r(sin30).   
C = ½ chord length between Radios 2 and 3 = r(cos30°) or 14 in.
D = Sqrt[(A+r+B)2 + (C)2]
The total sound level from three radio units will be the decibel sum of the sound levels at 
A + D + D.   
The numerical values for mounting system are: 
Tilt Bracket 
r = 16.0
B = 8.0
C= 14.0
D is a function of A. 
454 of 682

--- page 455 ---
- 6 -
Example:
If A = 12 ,
dBA.  The sound level for Radios
2 and 3 are 43.3 dBA each.  The combined sound level is 54.3 dBA.  
D= Sqrt[(12+16+8)2 + (14)2]  = 38.6
A = 12
53.5 dBA 
DRadio 1 = 38.6
ound Level = 53.5 + 20log10(12/38.6) = 43.3
DRadio 2 = 38.6
53.5 + 20log10(12/38.6) = 43.3
Combined Sound Level = 53.5 dB + 43.3 dB + 43.3 dB, = 
10log10(10(53.5/10) +10(43.3/10)+10(43.3/10)) = 54.3 dB.  In terms of environmental noise, the
sound level is 54 dBA.
Again, reporting decibels in whole numbers is acceptable. 
Table I, below, provides the calculations of the distances from Radio 1 (nearest unit to the 
receiver) to result in a combined sound level of 50 dBA for compliance with the noise
standards of the City of San Mateo.   
Sound Level
Distance
dBA
(inches)
Radio Reference
6.0 Bels Sound Power
0
Radio Reference
53.5
12
Radio 1
49
21
Radio 2
42
47
Radio 3
42
47
Combined
50
Tilt Bracket Mount System
TABLE I
Ericsson 6705 Radio Cluster Noise Analysis
As shown in Table I, the minimum distance from the nearest radio to the receiver location 
in a tilt bracket mount system shall be 21 inches. The distance to the center of the pole 
would be this distance plus the radius, which equals approximately 37 inches or 3 1
455 of 682

--- page 456 ---
- 7 -
he
installation
of
the
3 adio
configuration
assemblies
analyzed in this
study at the minimum distances shown in Table I will result in sound levels
no higher than 50 dBA, which will be n compliance with the City
f
San
Mateo
Noise Ordinance standard for noise sensitive receivers.
If you need any additional information or would like an elaboration on this report, please 
.
Jeffrey K. Pack 
President
Attachments:  Appendix A 
456 of 682

--- page 457 ---
A-1 
APPENDIX A 
Ericsson 6705 Data Sheet 
 
 
457 of 682

--- page 458 ---
Operating Environment

The following is a list of values for the Streetmacro unit in normal operating
environment

Temperature range ~4@8°C through +55°C

Absolute humidity 8.26 g/m? through 48 g/m?

Acoustic Noise
The unit moy emit iow levels of acoustic noise during operation.

The acoustic noise depends on the ambient temperature.

Toble 6 Sound Power Level

Temperature (°C) Sound Power Level (Bel)
+55 =68

Vibration
This section describes the unit tolerance to vibrations.

The unit operates reliably during seismic activity a5 specified by test method TEC
66 068-2-57 Fi

Maximum level of RRS Se mi/'s* within ?—5 Hz for DR=2%
Frequency range 8.3—58 Hz
Time history signal VERTEQ I

The unit operates reliably during random vibration os specified by test method
TEC 68 866-2-64 Fh method 1

Random vibration frequency 2 Hz-288 Hz
Se astia

The unit operates reliably during shock a5 specified by test method IEC 68
@68-2-27 Ea.

A-2

458 of 682


--- page 459 ---
JEFFREY K. PACK 
ACOUSTICAL CONSULTANT 
Curriculum Vitae 
 
EDUCATION 
 
Berklee College of Music, Boston, Massachusetts, 1984 
 
 
Bachelor of Music; Professional Music 
 
 
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 1981 
 
 
Bachelor of Science; Geological Sciences 
 
 
West Valley College, Saratoga, California, 1979 
 
 
Associate in Science; Science and Mathematics 
 
EXPERIENCE 
7/81 to 
 
President and Principal Consultant 
 
Present 
 
 
Edward L. Pack Associates, Inc. 
 
 
 
San Jose, California 
Mr. Pack has experience in architectural, environmental, and industrial acoustics, including 
interior design of office buildings, hospitals, medical buildings, hotels, recording studios, 
auditoriums and residences, HVAC noise control, mechanical equipment enclosures, roadway 
and railroad noise barriers, transportation noise assessments and industrial facility noise control.  
Transportation noise assessments involve the analysis of automobile, truck, railroad and aircraft 
noise as they impact residential, commercial and industrial land uses.  His responsibilities are 
involved with both the administrative and technical aspects of Edward L. Pack Associates and 
his duties also include presentations at public hearings, expert witness testimony, conducting 
seminars in acoustics, directing and monitoring construction corrective work in residential and 
commercial buildings and the design and construction direction of noise enclosures for 
mechanical equipment.  Measurements, analyses, and evaluations are made to develop the 
specific recommendations required for the correction of noise and vibration problems. 
He has extensive experience in the field of interior acoustics associated with auditoriums, multi-
purpose rooms, gymnasiums, classrooms, churches, public meeting halls, TV and audio/visual 
recording studios, hospitals, and other acoustically critical spaces.  Mr. Pack is an expert in 
architectural acoustics designing noise isolating walls, windows and floor/ceilings, particularly in 
multi-family housing for compliance with State and local building codes.   
459 of 682

--- page 460 ---
Jeffrey K. Pack, (cont'd) 
5/86 to 
 
President 
 
5/94 
 
 
The Techtonics Company 
 
 
 
Sunnyvale, California 
Mr. Pack designed, developed, and manufactured acoustic and electronic drum triggering 
devices, acoustic stringed instrument transducers, including piezoelectric pick-ups for guitars, 
violins, violas, cellos and basses from inception through final shipping.  As President, duties 
included management of production personnel, purchasing, sales, marketing, and advertising.  
Retail stores and distributors carrying The Techtonics Company products are located worldwide. 
2/93 to 
 
Adjunct Professor 
 
3/94 
 
 
 
Cogswell Polytechnical College 
 
 
Cupertino, California 
Adjunct professor of acoustics, which included teaching noise control engineering, audio 
engineering, architectural acoustics, and sound reinforcement system design. 
7/84 to 
 
Owner  
12/87 
 
 
Mirage Music Technologies 
 
 
San Jose and Hermosa Beach, California 
Mr. Pack designed and constructed speaker cabinets, taught music, designed sound reinforcement 
systems, worked as a DJ for private and public events, worked as a performing musician.   
His prior experience includes teaching assistant for Oceanography 210 at USC, 4 years as private 
drum and percussion instructor, conducting seminars in acoustics and noise control, and in music 
education as the South Bay Area Alumni Representative for the Berklee College of Music.  Other 
engineering experience included geologic structure mapping, mineralogy, and geologic 
engineering. 
AFFILIATIONS 
Acoustical Society of America 
 
 
 
American Institute of Physics 
Audio Engineering Society 
 
 
 
National Council of Acoustical Consultants 
Sigma Gamma Epsilon Geological Society 
 
460 of 682

--- page 461 ---
Project Purpose and Technical Objectives 
 
461 of 682

--- page 462 ---
Crown Castle Fiber LLC 
Project Narrative 
 
Application ID No. CA_SF_SANMATEO_151 
 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
This Project Narrative is submitted to the City of San Mateo in support of its applications for the 
installation of wireless telecommunications facilities pursuant to City of San Mateo Municipal 
Code Chapter 10 Article 18, Wireless telecommunications facilities within the public right-of- 
Way. 
a. Crown Castle 
 wireless carriers with the infrastructure they 
need to keep people connected and business running.  With approximately 40,000 towers and 
18,000 small cell nodes supported by approximately 60,000 miles of fiber, Crown Castle is the 
r of shared wireless infrastructure, with a significant presence in the top 
100 US markets.  
 
-of-the-art in wireless 
telecommunications network technology.  It is a low-profile telecommunications system capable 
of delivering wireless services to customers of multiple carriers such as Verizon, AT&T, Sprint, 
Metro PCS and T-
-scale, as individual 
SCN facilities can be attached to standard sign poles that take up little space in the public rights-
of-
signals, and wooden utility poles.  Crown Castle SCN therefore allows one aesthetically 
unobtrusive system to take the place of multiple antennas or macro-sites constructed by individual 
carriers -- a single, streamlined solution that diminishes the prospect of multiple carrier-
constructed antenna facilities servicing a given area.  Put another way, Crown Castle SCN permits 
many carriers to provide their services over one system with only a single series of vertical 
elements. 
b. The Proposed Project 
 
i. The Network. 
Crown Castle proposes developing its SCN network with approximately one-hundred and ninety-
seven new (197
San Mateo 
All proposed nodes qualify as Small Wireless Facilities as defined in 47 C.F.R § 1.6002(l).  
Specifically, this application proposes one antenna node submitted to the City of San Mateo for a 
Wireless Permit by the Department Public Works. Completion of the Project will provide needed 
wireless broadband and communications services and the addition of critical network capacity to 
throughout portions of the City of San Mateo 
97 
462 of 682

--- page 463 ---
nodes comprising the SCN will utilize existing vertical elements in the ROW, including utility 
poles and city-owned Streetlights.   
 
Each SCN node receives an optical signal from a central hub and distributes the signal to the 
antenna nodes via fiber optic cable.  The optical signal is then propagated from the SCN nodes in 
the form of radio frequency transmissions.  Distribution of signal from the hub to the low-power, 
low-profile antenna nodes, allows carriers to offload service capacity and provide wireless 
communications and data services to areas otherwise difficult to reach with conventional wireless 
telecommunications facilities. 
 
By using existing streetlight, traffic signal poles, and utility pole attachments whenever possible, 
the Project seeks to reduce the addition of new vertical elements, thereby minimizing intrusions 
into the right-of-
 
ii. Network Facility Features. 
A majority of the proposed sites consist of the node units mounted directly to a streetlight pole 
with the attachment of antennas and radios in a shroud on the side of the pole. Fiber optic 
connections and power connections will be brought underground to these facilities. The total 
height of the pole mounted facilities, measured from grade level, is typically up to 
.  In addition, 
the nodes located on streetlights require an underground pull box containing fiber optic cable 
connection.  The fiber converters convert digitalized spectrum received from the hub into RF 
signals emitted from the node to the Service Area. 
 
II. 
APPLICABLE LEGAL STANDARDS.  
Crown Castle presents this analysis pursuant to the City of San Mateo Municipal Code. 
Specifically, this narrative demonstrates the demands and rationale that led to the selection of a 
particular location and design for the telecommunication facilities proposed herein. 
 
a. Applicable State Law. 
 
i. Public Utilities Code Sections 7901 and 7901.1 
therefore have a special status under state law.  By virtue of the California Public Utilities 
1   
 
The CPUC has issued a CPCN (attached as Exhibit D) authorizing Crown Castle to construct the 
as a CLEC gives rise to a vested right to use the ROW in the C
 
1 Pub. Util. Code, §§ 1001, 7901; 7901.1; see Williams Communication v. City of Riverside, 114 Cal. App. 4th 642, 
 
 
463 of 682

--- page 464 ---
along and upon any public road or highway, along or across any of the waters or lands within this 
necessary fixtures of their lines, in such manner and at such points as not to incommode the public 
2 The nature of the vested right was described by one court as 
follows: 
 
 
offer extended to telephone and telegraph companies to use the 
highways, which offer when accepted by the construction and 
maintenance of lines constitutes a binding contract based on adequate 
consideration, and that the vested right established thereby cannot be 
 
 
Thus, telephone companies have the right to use the public highways to install their facilities.3  
 
right to exercise 
reasonable control as to the time, place, and manner in which roads, highways, and waterways are 
or otherwise prevent Crown Castle from exerc
(Williams Communication v. City of Riverside, supra, 114 Cal.App.4th at p. 653.) 
 
is designed as a ROW system.  With respect to the siting and configuration of the Network, the 
rights afforded under PUC sections 7901 and 7901.1 apply.  Crown Castle reserves its rights under 
section 7901 and 7901.1, including, but not limited to, its right to challenge any approval process, 
 rights as a CLEC. 
ii. Government Code Section 50030. 
Government Code section 50030 also applies to telephone corporations seeking to install their 
facilities in the public rights-of-way.  That section provides that a city cannot require payment for 
entry into 
4 Section 50030 constitutes a legislative determination that 
any fee or exaction that exceeds the cost of addressing actual impacts arising from the construction 
of a telephone network is unlawful because it fails to satisfy the nexus and rough proportionality 
requirements under the dual Supreme Court cases of Nollan v. California Coastal Commission, 
483 U.S. 825 (1987), and Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S. 374 (1994). 
 
iii. Government Code Section 65964.1. 
 
2 Pub. Util. Code, § 7901. 
3 Williams Communications v. City of Riverside, supra, 114 Cal.App.4th at p. 648 quoting County of L.A. v. 
Southern Cal. Tel. Co. (1948) 32 Cal.2d 378, 384 [196 P.2d 773]. 
4 Williams Communications v. City of Riverside, supra, 114 Cal.App.4th at p. 648. 
464 of 682

--- page 465 ---
Government Code section 65964.1 became effective on January 1, 2022. Pursuant to this 
provision, an application for a new wireless facility is deemed approved if: (a) the city --including 
a charter city -- or county fails to approve or disapprove the application within the time periods 
FCC Rcd 9088 (14) (60 days for collocation of small wireless facilities and 90 days for stand-alone 
small wireless facilities; 150 days for non-small wireless facilities), and (b) all public notices 
regarding the application have been provided. (Gov. Code, § 65964.1, subd. (a).) The new statute 
also contains an express finding that wireless telecommunications facilities are a matter of 
California Constitution. (Id., § 65964.1, subd. (e).) 
 
b. Applicable Federal Law. 
 
i. The Federal Telecommunications Act. 
5 Sections 253 and 332 of the Telecom Act speak 
6 Section 
7 Section 253(a) provides, in 
relevant part: 
No State or local statute or regulation, or other State or local legal 
requirement, may prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the 
ability of any entity to provide any interstate or intrastate 
telecommunications service. 47 U.S.C. § 253(a). 
 
Similarly, section 332(c)(7) states: 
 
The regulation of the placement, construction, and modification 
of personal wireless service facilities by any State or local 
government 
or 
instrumentality 
thereof
(I) 
shall 
not 
unreasonably discriminate among providers of functionally 
equivalent services; and (II) shall not prohibit or have the effect 
of prohibiting the provision of personal wireless services. 47 
U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(B)(i). 
 
 
5 In the Matter of Accelerating Wireless Broadband Deployment by Removing Barriers to Infrastructure Investment, 
Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order, WT Docket Nos. 17-79, 17- 84, FCC 18-133, ¶ 14 (rel. Sept. 27, 
Removing Barriers
m Act). 
6 Id
a type of telecommunications service (wireless). In 
the Matter of Accelerating Wireless Broadband Deployment by Removing Barriers to Infrastructure Investment, 
Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order, WT Docket Nos. 17-79, 17-84, FCC 18-133, ¶ 34 (rel. Sept. 
Removing Barriers
 
7 Removing Barriers, at ¶15 (citing Puerto Rico Tel. Co. v. Telecomm. Reg. Bd. of Puerto Rico, 189 F.3d 1, 11 n.7 
(1st Cir.1999)). 
465 of 682

--- page 466 ---
Section 332 further provides as follows: 
 
A State or local government or instrumentality thereof shall act on 
any request for authorization to place, construct, or modify 
personal wireless service facilities within a reasonable period of 
time after the request is duly filed with such government or 
instrumentality, taking into account the nature and scope of such 
request. 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(B)(ii). 
 
Any decision by a state or local government or instrumentality 
thereof to deny a request to place, construct, or modify personal 
wireless service facilities shall be in writing and supported by 
substantial evidence contained in the written record. 47 U.S.C. § 
332(c)(7)(B)(iii). 
 
As noted above, the Telecom Act prohibits localities from taking actions (or not acting) that either 
that the proper standard for determining whether a state or local requirement has the effect of 
prohibiting service and violat
California Payphone decision.8  Under that decision, a state or local law has 
covered service.9  This test is met not only when filling a coverage gap but also when densifying 
a wireless network, introducing new services or otherwise improving service capabilities
10 In 
a state or local legal requirement could materially inhibit service in numerous 
ways
materially inhibiting the introduction of new services or the improvement of 
existing services. 11 
 
In addition to the above, other FCC enactments and policies also guide local governmental actions, 
including the following:  
(1) 
governments to act on applications for the siting of 
wireless telecommunications facilities.  The 
 
 
(2) 
 
8 Removing Barriers, at ¶¶ 10, 31.  
9 Id., at ¶ 37. 
10 Id. 
11 Id. 
466 of 682

--- page 467 ---
during which local governments must act on applications for 
the siting of small wireless telecommunications facilities, 
restricted the fee rates jurisdictions may lawfully charge for 
small 
wireless 
telecommunications 
facilities, 
and 
Rule. Further, the FCC clarified that jurisdictions act solely 
within their regulatory capacity when dictating the terms of 
access to their public rights-of-way and instituted procedures 
for processing applications. The following year, in its 
decision in City of Portland v. United States, No. 18-72689, 
(9th Cir. 2020), the Ninth Circuit Court confirmed all the 
preceding FCC findings.  
 
 
 
III. 
JUSTIFICATION 
As discussed more fully below, the Service Area described prior currently experiences a 
degradation in service due to capacity limitations in wireless telecommunications coverage.  To 
bolster this degradation in service and/or capacity, Crown Castle proposes small wireless facility 
nodes to support the degradation in this area. As a CLEC entitled to ROW access, Crown Castle 
construct its systems in the ROW. On that basis and during the network planning phase, Crown 
Castle examines locations potentially available for siting within the ROW.  The analysis below 
placement in the locations specified in the applications.  
 
a. 
Height of the Proposed Facilities. 
 
The antenna heights and locations of the Small Cell Site nodes were chosen to provide the 
minimum signal level needed to meet critical coverage and/or capacity needs in the Service Area.  
Despite the technical limitations of a low-profile system, Crown Castle seeks to maximize the 
coverage of each node location, since maximization of the node performance equates to a lower 
overall number of facilities for the Network.  Accordingly, each location was chosen to provide an 
effective relay of signal from the adjacent node and nearby base station, so that ubiquitous 
coverage and capacity of the minimum signal level is provided throughout the Service Area with 
the minimum number of nodes.   
 
 
 
b. 
Location of Proposed Facilities. 
 
The selected node locations maximize the RF coverage of the node and minimize 
interference/overlap with the other nodes of the system, resulting in a lower overall number of 
facilities for the Network and a less obstructive system.  Each node provides an effective relay of 
signal from the adjacent node, so that ubiquitous coverage is provided throughout the Service Area.  
Because each node is locationally dependent on the other nodes of the Network, moving a node 
467 of 682

--- page 468 ---
too far from its proposed location will result in an inability to meet coverage objectives and thereby 
impair the Network, rendering relocation technically infeasible.  In selecting node locations, 
Crown Castle also sought out use of existing utility, streetlight, and street sign pole sites that could 
serve as a potential host site for an alternative location.   
 
c. 
Small Wireless Facility Sites  
 
Apart from the siting considerations described above, Small Wireless Facilities are inherently 
unobtrusive by design.  Small Wireless Facilities were developed as a smaller-scale solution to, 
and in support of, the larger macro-site or cell tower.  It therefore represents a significant 
technological advance in the development of smaller profile wireless transmission devices.  As 
devices shrink in size, they also, necessarily, shrink in power.  Accordingly, more facilities are 
needed, and such facilities must be located closer to the user.  The proposed nodes are designed to 
be smaller scale and lower power to allow them to integrate more easily into their surroundings.   
 
The proposed facilities combine a smaller scale product with state-of-the-art technology that 
allows for multiple carriers to provide service from the node.  The nodes are designed to blend into 
the existing elements of the ROW.  They feature narrow-profile poles and minimal equipment.  
network of supports coverage by offloading capacity from the existing surrounding (macro) sites 
while also reducing impact to the ROW in the following manner: 
(1) 
Crown Castle Small Cell Site node utilizes the latest in 
wireless infrastructure technology, incorporating smaller, 
low-power facilities instead of using larger, more obtrusive 
cell towers; 
 
(2) 
Crown Castle Small Cell Site node utilizes the ROW, 
thereby avoiding intrusions into private property or 
undeveloped sensitive resource areas; 
 
(3) 
Crown Castle Small Cell Site allows for collocation by 
multiple carriers, thereby avoiding proliferation of nodes; 
 
(4) 
Crown Castle Small Cell site strikes a balance between 
antenna height, capacity and coverage in order to minimize 
visual impacts;  
 
(5) 
Crown Castle Small Cell Site carefully spaces the nodes to 
effectively relay signal with a minimum number of node 
locations; and 
 
(6) 
Crown Castle Small Cell Site seeks to utilize existing 
vertical elements in the ROW, such as utility poles and street 
light poles, thereby minimizing the net number of vertical 
intrusions in the ROW. 
d.  
Health and Safety/FCC Compliance. 
 
468 of 682

--- page 469 ---
The FCC has preempted the field of compliance with RF emission standards.  Moreover, section 
47 U.S.C. 332(c)(7)(B)(iv) preempts local and state governments from regulating the siting of 
wireless telecommunications facilities on the basis of the perceived health effects of RF emissions.  
Nevertheless, the Network, and all equipment associated with the Network, complies with all 
applicable FCC RF emission standards is enclosed with the application and marked as Attachment 
07 - RF Compliance Report  
 
e. 
Selection Criteria for Each Node Site. 
 
Given the low profile of the nodes, and the resultant limitations of such a low-profile system, 
Crown Castle seeks to maximize capacity off load coverage of each node location because 
maximization of the node coverage equates to a lower overall number of facilities for the network 
and a less incursive system.  Each node is locationally dependent on the other nodes of the 
Network.  Accordingly, each location was specifically chosen to provide an effective relay of 
signal from the adjacent node, so that ubiquitous coverage is provided throughout the Service Area 
with the least number of nodes.  To move a node too far from its proposed location will therefore 
objectives as the node is unable to properly propagate its signal to the other nodes within the larger 
Network. The further a node is moved from its proposed location, the more the signal from that 
node will weaken. The technical limitations of small wireless facilities may result in limited viable 
options for their placement, as relocating a node by more than 50 feet from the proposed location 
materially impairs its technical capability.  
 
While Crown Castle is able to install new poles to achieve its RF capacity offload and coverage 
location. Crown Castle also considers aesthetic impacts, making the strategic decision to minimize 
the installation of new poles, where feasible, by installing nodes on existing vertical elements, 
including streetlights and wooden utility poles.  By approaching a network design in this matter, 
Crown Castle limits proliferation of verticalities in the public ROW.  Crown Castle considers the 
following factors during the site selection process: 
(1) 
Technical feasibility;  
 
(2) 
Ability to utilize existing vertical elements;  
 
(3) 
Ability to offload and support capacity demands, meet RF          
            objectives; and  
 
(4) 
Minimization of visibility/aesthetic impacts.   
 
 
f. 
Selection Criteria for Node Site Location.  
 
Each node of the Network is necessary to support a degradation of service due to overload on the 
system.  The need to maintain minimum quality of service to a level that allows adequate in-
building coverage and to address growing capacity demands is underscored by the greater numbers 
469 of 682

--- page 470 ---
of customers dropping their landlines and relying solely on wireless telecommunications for their 
phone service.  Additionally: 
(1) 
In a recent international study, the United States dropped to 
fifteenth in the world in broadband penetration, well behind 
South Korea, Japan, the Netherlands and France.12 
 
(2) 
40 percent of all American homes are now wireless only.13 
 
(3) 
More and more civic leaders and emergency response 
personnel cite lack of a robust wireless network as a growing 
public safety risk.  The number of 911 calls placed by people 
using wireless phones has significantly increased in recent 
years.  It is estimated that about 70 percent of 911 calls are 
placed from wireless phones, and that percentage is 
growing.14 
 
(4) 
Data demand from new smartphones and tablets is leading 
to a critical deficit in spectrum, requiring more wireless 
antennas and infrastructure.  According to a 2011 report, 
wireless data traffic was 110 percent higher than in the last 
half of 2010.  Similarly, AT&T reports that its wireless data 
volumes have increased 30-fold since the introduction of the 
iPhone.15 
 
(5) 
Wireless data traffic grew by a factor of 20 between 2010 
and 2015.16 
As more Americans depend on wireless communications technologies and smartphone, reliable 
network capacity and maintaining high level in-building service coverage is and will continue to 
be critical.  The San Mateo Service Area is currently experiencing insufficient coverage and/or 
capacity.  Users in the Service Area therefore would experience an intolerably high percentage of 
blocked and dropped calls and/or slow data speeds for outside use, with a commensurate decline 
in signal strength as one moves toward the inside of existing buildings and homes.  Crown Castle 
Small Cell Site nodes seek to provide sufficient signal strength to ensure not only adequate signal 
for mobile and outdoor users, but further support for reliable in-building coverage for all those 
customers who may seek to abandon their home landlines and sufficient capacity to address new 
data demands from smartphones and tablets.  Wireless customers must be able to count on a level 
of service commensurate with that provided by landlines.   
 
g. Additional Information Provided Regarding Drive Tests-NOIs 
 
 
12 Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Directorate for Science, Technology, and 
 
13 Federal Communications Commission (April 2013). 
14 Federal Communications Commission (2013) http://www.fcc.gov/guides/wireless-911-services. 
Executive Office of the President Council of Economic Advisors (White House, Feb. 2012) at 2-6. 
15 Id.  
16 Id. 
470 of 682

--- page 471 ---
Drive test data, which is requested to show the area of coverage for the proposed site, is not relevant 
for a small wireless facility that is needed to address capacity constraints and network densification 
needs as opposed to traditional coverage gaps. Crown Castle did not conduct in-field drive tests 
and is unable to provide any drive test results reflecting any gaps in coverage or coverage are, as 
addressing a coverage gap is not a technical objective of the project at hand. We are instead 
improving existing service and introducing the 5G spectrum, a new service, to the San Mateo area. 
Small Cells are needed to densify the overall network and Crown Castle is targeting the Public 
Right of Way where 5G is not yet available. Please be advised that pursuant to the FCC, a provider 
enhancing, densifying, expanding, or introducing new services need not show a significant gap in 
order to show necessity for its facilities
it may instead use other, more relevant means of showing 
its introduction of new or improvement of existing services.17 The instant narrative and other 
application materials show Crown Castle is introducing new and improving existing services in 
the San Mateo area. 
 
 
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
 
Crown Castle respectfully presents its Wireless Permit applications for wireless communications 
questions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17 Removing Barriers, at ¶ 37. 
471 of 682

--- page 472 ---
V. 
GEOGRAPHIC MAP OF COVERAGE IMPROVEMENT WITH NEW SERVICE 
 
 
 
 
COVERAGE WITH NEW SITE INSTALLED AT LOCATION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
472 of 682

--- page 473 ---
VI. 
EXISTING AND PROPOSED NETWORK      
 
 
 
 
 
473 of 682

--- page 474 ---
Alternative Site Analysis 
 
474 of 682

--- page 475 ---
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
March 2023
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
March 2023
1
City of San Mateo
Primary Candidate for San Mateo Bridge Headend
Legend
Proposed Node
Node
Latitude
Longitude
Structure Type
Address
Zoning district designation
CA_SF_SANMATEO_151
37.551258
-122.299441
Metal Streetlight
1001 Bermuda Dr, San Mateo, CA 94403
R1C
475 of 682

--- page 476 ---
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
March 2023
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
March 2023
Legend
Proposed Node
Streetlight Pole
Traffic Signal Light
Wood Pole
500ft Radius
2
San Mateo Bridge Headend
Primary and Alternate Candidates for CA_SF_SANMATEO_151
•
15 Sites Evaluated
•
All other sites eliminated due to being less preferable locations, GO95 restrictions, not following PG&E 
standards and guidelines, not meeting network coverage and capacity, or deemed more intrusive due 
to environmental and visual impacts.
476 of 682

--- page 477 ---
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
March 2023
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
March 2023
3
San Mateo Bridge Headend
Primary and Alternative Candidates for CA_SF_SANMATEO_151
Node
Latitude
Longitude
Structure Type
Address
Zoning district designation
Reason for Being Acceptable or Unacceptable
CA_SF_SANMATEO_151
37.551258
-122.299441
Metal Streetlight
1001 Bermuda Dr, San Mateo, CA 94403
R1C
Will meet the coverage objective.
ALT 01
37.55124
-122.29857
Metal Streetlight
Across 1022 Bermuda Dr, San Mateo, CA 94403
R1C
Will not work because the pole is too far away from our targeted coverage and capacity relief area. 5G signal travels ~200ft with line of 
site based on the surroundings. This ALT does not meet our RF requirements and is located ~252ft away from our primary target.
ALT 02
37.55053
-122.29863
Metal Streetlight
1029 Rossi Way, San Mateo, CA 94403
R1C
Will not work because the pole is too far away from our targeted coverage and capacity relief area. 5G signal travels ~200ft with line of 
site based on the surroundings. This ALT does not meet our RF requirements and is located ~361ft away from our primary target.
ALT 03
37.55058
-122.29944
Metal Streetlight
1005 Rossi Way, San Mateo, CA 94403
R1C
Will not work because the pole is within 4ft of ADA ramp (residential) violating PG&E standards.
ALT 04
37.55002
-122.2995
Metal Streetlight
2059 Sullivan St, San Mateo, CA 94403
R1C
Will not work because the pole is too far away from our targeted coverage and capacity relief area. 5G signal travels ~200ft with line of 
site based on the surroundings. This ALT does not meet our RF requirements and is located ~458ft away from our primary target.
ALT 05
37.55131
-122.30034
Metal Streetlight
1001 Bermuda Dr, San Mateo, CA 94403
R1C
Will not work because the pole is too far away from our targeted coverage and capacity relief area. 5G signal travels ~200ft with line of 
site based on the surroundings. This ALT does not meet our RF requirements and is located ~261ft away from our primary target.
ALT 06
37.55057
-122.30056
Metal Streetlight
2032 Trinity St, San Mateo, CA 94403
R1C
Will not work because the pole has no 3x3 working clearance violating PG&E standards. 
ALT 07
37.55224
-122.30061
Metal Streetlight
1001 Bermuda Dr (On 19th Ave), San Mateo, CA 94403
R1C
Will not work because the pole is too far away from our targeted coverage and capacity relief area. 5G signal travels ~200ft with line of 
site based on the surroundings. This ALT does not meet our RF requirements and is located ~485ft away from our primary target.
ALT 08
37.55223
-122.29991
Metal Streetlight
1001 Bermuda Dr (On 19th Ave), San Mateo, CA 94403
R1C
Will not work because the pole is too far away from our targeted coverage and capacity relief area. 5G signal travels ~200ft with line of 
site based on the surroundings. This ALT does not meet our RF requirements and is located ~374ft away from our primary target.
ALT 09
37.55241
-122.29986
Traffic Light
At 19th Ave and Fashion Island Blvd intersection, San Mateo, CA 94403
Between R1C & C3-1/Q4 Wireless facilities are not allowed on traffic poles per the City’s design standards. 
ALT 10
37.55237
-122.29938
Traffic Light
At 19th Ave and Fashion Island Blvd intersection, San Mateo, CA 94403
Between R1C & C3-1/Q4 Wireless facilities are not allowed on traffic poles per the City’s design standards. 
ALT 11
37.552433
-122.299847
Metal Streetlight
On CA-92E Ramp (101S Ramp Entrance)
Between R1C & C3-1/Q4
Undesirable location due to the fact this ALT located on HWY 92. Currently Crown Castle has been unsuccessful attaching to a 
Caltrans Owned pole.
ALT 12
37.552444
-122.299112
Metal Streetlight
On CA-92E Ramp (101S Ramp Entrance)
Between R1C & C3-1/Q4
Undesirable location due to the fact this ALT located on HWY 92. Currently Crown Castle has been unsuccessful attaching to a 
Caltrans Owned pole.
ALT 13
37.552422
-122.298556
Metal Streetlight
On CA-92E Ramp (101S Ramp Entrance)
Between R1C & C3-1/Q4
Undesirable location due to the fact this ALT located on HWY 92. Currently Crown Castle has been unsuccessful attaching to a 
Caltrans Owned pole.
ALT 14
37.552283
-122.298753
Metal Streetlight
1001 Bermuda Dr (On 19th Ave), San Mateo, CA 94403
Between R1C & C3-1/Q4
Will not work because the pole is too far away from our targeted coverage and capacity relief area. 5G signal travels ~200ft with line of 
site based on the surroundings. This ALT does not meet our RF requirements and is located ~415ft away from our primary target.
ALT 15
37.550398
-122.299133
Wood Pole
1012 Rossi Way, San Mateo, CA 94403
R1C
Will not work because the pole has no 3x3 working clearance violating PG&E standards. 
477 of 682

--- page 478 ---
Structural Analysis 
 
478 of 682

--- page 479 ---
kimley-horn.com
421 Fayetteville Street, Suite 600, Raleigh, NC 27601
(919) 677 2000
Peter Lan
Crown Castle
1 Park Place
Dublin, CA 94568
(341) 216-4693
3875 Embassy Pkwy, Suite 280
Akron, OH 44333
(216) 273-8299
Date: March 13, 2023
KH Project #: KHCLE-35083
Structural Analysis Report
Crown Node ID:
CA_SF_SANMATEO_151
Crown SCU #:
508918
Code Requirements:
AASHTO LRFD LTS-1, TIA-222-H,
2018 IBC, 2019 California Building Code
Wind Speed w/o Ice: 92 mph (3-sec gust)
Wind Speed w/ Ice: N/A
1001 Bermuda Dr, San Mateo,
CA 94403, San Mateo County
Latitude
, Longitude
Existing 25 Foot – Tapered Round Pole
Mr. Lan,
Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc. is pleased to submit this “Structural Analysis Report” to determine the
structural integrity of the above mentioned tower.
The purpose of the analysis is to determine acceptability of the tower stress level.  Based on our analysis we have
determined the tower stress level for the structure, under the following load case, to be:
Existing+Proposed Equipment:
 
Tower Rating:
89.5%
Pass
The analysis has been performed in accordance with the 2019 California Building Code based upon a 3-second
gust wind speed of 92 mph.  Exposure Category C and Risk Category II were used in this analysis.
Structural analysis prepared by: Carson VanderArk, EIT
Respectfully submitted by:
Michael Oglesby, P.E.
Lic. #82179, Exp. 03/31/2024
Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc
479 of 682

--- page 480 ---
Crown Node ID: CA_SF_SANMATEO_151
        KH Project #: KHCLE-35083
Crown SCU #: 508918
                                         Page 2
kimley-horn.com
421 Fayetteville Street, Suite 600, Raleigh, NC 27601
(919) 677 2000
 INTRODUCTION
At the request of Crown Castle, Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc. performed a structural analysis of the existing
streetlight monopole located in San Mateo, CA.  The purpose of the analysis is to determine the adequacy of
the tower to support the loading configuration outlined in Appendix A (tnxTower Output File), pursuant to the
referenced standards.
ANALYSIS CRITERIA
The analysis utilizes tnxTower v. 8.0.5, an industry-standard finite element analysis program used to create an
elastic three-dimensional model considering second-order effects per AASHTO and ANSI/TIA-222
requirements. The program calculates member stresses for various loading cases and selected output from the
analysis is included in the appendices.
 
TIA-222 Revision:
TIA-222-H
AASHTO Revision:
2015 LRFD LTS-1
 
Risk Category:
II
 
Wind Speed:
92 mph
 
Exposure Category:
C
 
Topographic Factor at Base:
1.00
 
Topographic Factor at Mount:
1.00
 
Ice Thickness:
0.00 in
 
Wind Speed with Ice:
N/A
 
Seismic Ss:
1.942
 
Seismic S1:
0.799
FATIGUE CONSIDERATIONS
Per review of AASHTO LRFDLTS-1 2015 in conjunction with the existing streetlight monopole evaluation,
Kimley-Horn determined that consideration of fatigue design is not required for this structure. Per Section 11.4
of the LTS, a fatigue analysis is only required for structures that are either >55’ (i.e. HMLT structures) or for
structures with major overhead components (cantilevered or noncantilevered). Major overhead components do
not include small/simple luminaires, the code’s commentary (C11.4) states, “only specific types of structures
are identified for fatigue design in this Article. Common lighting poles and roadside signs are not included
because they are smaller structures and normally have not exhibited fatigue problems.”
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION
Information on the current tower geometry, member sizes, foundation dimensions, soil properties, and antenna
loading was obtained from the sources listed below.  It is assumed that all information provided to Kimley-Horn
& Associates, Inc. is accurate.  In the absence of information to the contrary, we assume the structure has been
properly erected and maintained per the original design drawings and the capacity has not significantly changed
from the “as new” condition.
Ground Site Visit
Kimley-Horn, 1/4/2022
Construction Drawings 
Kimley-Horn, Project #: KHCLE-35076
480 of 682

--- page 481 ---
Crown Node ID: CA_SF_SANMATEO_151
        KH Project #: KHCLE-35083
Crown SCU #: 508918
                                         Page 3
kimley-horn.com
421 Fayetteville Street, Suite 600, Raleigh, NC 27601
(919) 677 2000
 RESULTS
The tables below show a maximum usage summary for each group of components in the structure.  The usage
of a component is the ratio of force in the member compared to its calculated capacity.  A more detailed report of
member usages can be found in the appendices at the end of this report.  Usages greater than 100% indicate
where the force in the member exceeds its capacity.  Usages up to 100% are considered acceptable per AASHTO
standard.
Structure Usages:
Structure
Component
Controlling
Usage
Result
Tower Shaft
89.5%
Pass
Base Plate
81.6%
Pass
Anchor Bolts
17.2%
Pass
 CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Per our structural analysis, the structure has been found to pass.  The tower can support the referenced loading
in accordance with the structural strength requirements of AASHTO LRFD LTS-1, ANSI/TIA-222-H, 2018 IBC,
and 2019 California Building Code.
481 of 682

--- page 482 ---
Crown Node ID: CA_SF_SANMATEO_151
        KH Project #: KHCLE-35083
Crown SCU #: 508918
                                         Page 4
kimley-horn.com
421 Fayetteville Street, Suite 600, Raleigh, NC 27601
(919) 677 2000
 ASSUMPTIONS AND LIMITATIONS
This report is not a condition assessment of the tower; It is an engineering analysis based upon the theoretical
capacity of the structure.  Unless told otherwise, we assume the tower to be in “like new” condition.  It is the
responsibility of our client and the tower owner to verify that the tower modeled and loading considered is accurate.
If these assumptions are not accurate, Kimley-Horn & Associates, Inc. should be notified immediately to perform
a revised analysis. This analysis assumes all antenna mounts are adequate to support the existing and proposed
loads.  It is the carrier’s responsibility to ensure antenna mount meets the structural requirements of AASHTO
and ANSI/TIA-222.  Kimley-Horn & Associates, Inc. did not analyze antenna supporting mounts as part of this
structural analysis report.
All services are performed, results obtained, and recommendation made in accordance with generally accepted
engineering principles and practices.  Kimley-Horn & Associates, Inc. is not responsible for the conclusions,
opinions and recommendations made by others based on the information in this report.
Kimley-Horn makes no warranties, expressed or implied in connection with this report and disclaims any liability
arising from original design, material, fabrication, and section deficiencies or corrosion of the tower.
482 of 682

--- page 483 ---
Crown Node ID: CA_SF_SANMATEO_151
        KH Project #: KHCLE-35083
Crown SCU #: 508918
                                         Page 5
kimley-horn.com
421 Fayetteville Street, Suite 600, Raleigh, NC 27601
(919) 677 2000
APPENDIX A
tnxTower Output File
483 of 682

--- page 484 ---
Consulting Engineers
 Kimley-Horn
 1234 W. Jones St.
 Smallville, PA 12345
 Phone: (555) 555-1234
 FAX: (555) 555-1235
Job:
 Project:
 Client: Crown Castle
 Drawn by: carson.vanderark
 App'd:
 Code:  TIA-222-H
 Date: 03/13/23
 Scale:  NTS
 Path:
K:\NTL_Telecom\Workflow\Crown Castle\_Small Cell\VCA2\SMC - San Mateo\151-SANMATEO_151\4 - Structural Analysis\Model\Design B - 25' - 8' Luminaire - Street Sign.eri Dwg No. E-1
25.3 ft
0.0 ft
REACTIONS - 92 mph WIND
TORQUE 465 lb-ft
1 K
SHEAR
9184 lb-ft
MOMENT
0 K
AXIAL
ARE FACTORED
ALL REACTIONS
Section
1
Length (ft)
25.25
Number of Sides
1
Thickness (in)
0.1600
Top Dia (in)
2.8800
Bot Dia (in)
7.0000
Grade
Aluminum A6063-T6
Weight (K)
0.1
0.1
Luminaire
27.083
Luminaire Arm
25.67
(3) Antenna/Radio
23.083
Street Sign
10.54
Street Sign
8.5
Smart Meter
7.92
DESIGNED APPURTENANCE LOADING
TYPE
TYPE
ELEVATION
ELEVATION
Luminaire
27.083
Luminaire Arm
25.67
(3) Antenna/Radio
23.083
Street Sign
10.54
Street Sign
8.5
Smart Meter
7.92
MATERIAL STRENGTH
GRADE
GRADE
Fy
Fy
Fu
Fu
Aluminum
A6063-T6
25 ksi
30 ksi
TOWER DESIGN NOTES
1. Tower is located in San Mateo County, California.
2. Tower designed for Exposure C to the TIA-222-H Standard.
3. Tower designed for a 92 mph basic wind in accordance with the TIA-222-H Standard.
4. Deflections are based upon a 60 mph wind.
5. Tower Risk Category II.
6. Topographic Category 1 with Crest Height of 0.00 ft
484 of 682

--- page 485 ---
tnxTower
Job
KHCLE-35083
Page
1  of  3
Kimley-Horn
1234 W. Jones St.
Project
SANMATEO_151
Date
09:14:37 03/13/23
Smallville, PA 12345
Phone: (555) 555-1234
FAX: (555) 555-1235
Client
Crown Castle
Designed by
carson.vanderark
Tower Input Data
The tower is a monopole.
This tower is designed using the TIA-222-H standard.
The following design criteria apply:
Tower is located in San Mateo County, California.
Tower base elevation above sea level: 0.00 ft.
Basic wind speed of 92 mph.
Risk Category II.
Exposure Category C.
Simplified Topographic Factor Procedure for wind speed-up calculations is used.
Topographic Category: 1.
Crest Height: 0.00 ft.
Deflections calculated using a wind speed of 60 mph.
A non-linear (P-delta) analysis was used.
Pressures are calculated at each section.
Stress ratio used in pole design is 1.
Local bending stresses due to climbing loads, feed line supports, and appurtenance mounts are not considered.
Tapered Pole Section Geometry
 Section
Elevation
ft
Section
Length
ft
Splice
 Length
ft
Number
of
Sides
Top
Diameter
in
Bottom
Diameter
in
Wall
Thickness
in
Bend
Radius
in
Pole Grade
L1
25.25-0.00
25.25
Round
2.8800
7.0000
0.1600
Aluminum
A6063-T6
(25 ksi)
Tapered Pole Properties
 Section 
Tip Dia.
in
Area
in2
I
in4
r
in
C
in
I/C
in3
J
in4
It/Q
in2
w
in
w/t
L1
2.8800
1.3672
1.2688
0.9633
1.4400
0.8811
2.5376
0.6832
0.0000
0
7.0000
3.4382
20.1180
2.4190
3.5000
5.7480
40.2361
1.7181
0.0000
0
Tower
 Elevation
ft
Gusset
Area
(per face)
ft2
Gusset
Thickness
in
Gusset Grade Adjust. Factor
Af
Adjust.
Factor
Ar
Weight Mult.
Double Angle
Stitch Bolt
Spacing
Diagonals
in
Double Angle
Stitch Bolt
Spacing
Horizontals
in
Double Angle
Stitch Bolt
Spacing
Redundants
in
L1 25.25-0.00
1
1
1
485 of 682

--- page 486 ---
tnxTower
Job
KHCLE-35083
Page
2  of  3
Kimley-Horn
1234 W. Jones St.
Project
SANMATEO_151
Date
09:14:37 03/13/23
Smallville, PA 12345
Phone: (555) 555-1234
FAX: (555) 555-1235
Client
Crown Castle
Designed by
carson.vanderark
Discrete Tower Loads
Description
Face
or
Leg
Offset
Type
Offsets:
Horz
Lateral
Vert
ft
ft
ft
Azimuth
Adjustment
°
Placement
ft
CAAA
Front
ft2
CAAA
Side
ft2
Weight
K
(3) Antenna/Radio
A
None
0.0000
23.08
No Ice
1.00
0.75
0.04
Luminaire
B
From Face
7.00
0.00
0.00
0.0000
27.08
No Ice
1.00
1.00
0.05
Luminaire Arm
B
From Face
3.00
0.00
0.00
0.0000
25.67
No Ice
1.50
3.35
0.08
Smart Meter
C
None
0.0000
7.92
No Ice
1.50
0.75
0.04
Street Sign
B
From Face
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.0000
8.50
No Ice
2.00
0.00
0.01
Street Sign
A
From Face
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.0000
10.54
No Ice
9.00
0.00
0.01
Load Combinations
Comb.
No.
Description
1
Dead Only
2
1.2 Dead+1.0 Wind 0 deg - No Ice
3
0.9 Dead+1.0 Wind 0 deg - No Ice
4
1.2 Dead+1.0 Wind 45 deg - No Ice
5
0.9 Dead+1.0 Wind 45 deg - No Ice
6
1.2 Dead+1.0 Wind 90 deg - No Ice
7
0.9 Dead+1.0 Wind 90 deg - No Ice
8
Dead+Wind 0 deg - Service
9
Dead+Wind 45 deg - Service
10
Dead+Wind 90 deg - Service
Maximum Reactions
Location
Condition
Gov.
Load
Comb.
Vertical
K
Horizontal, X
K
Horizontal, Z
K
Pole
Max. Vert
6
0.46
-0.60
0.00
Max. Hx
8
0.38
-0.00
0.16
Max. Hz
2
0.46
-0.00
0.42
Max. Mx
2
7340.52
-0.00
0.42
Max. Mz
6
9143.52
-0.60
0.00
Max. Torsion
6
465.07
-0.60
0.00
Min. Vert
3
0.34
-0.00
0.42
Min. Hx
6
0.46
-0.60
0.00
Min. Hz
1
0.38
-0.00
-0.00
Min. Mx
7
618.58
-0.60
0.00
Min. Mz
2
-2.84
-0.00
0.42
Min. Torsion
2
-0.09
-0.00
0.42
486 of 682

--- page 487 ---
tnxTower
Job
KHCLE-35083
Page
3  of  3
Kimley-Horn
1234 W. Jones St.
Project
SANMATEO_151
Date
09:14:37 03/13/23
Smallville, PA 12345
Phone: (555) 555-1234
FAX: (555) 555-1235
Client
Crown Castle
Designed by
carson.vanderark
Tower Mast Reaction Summary
Load
Combination
Vertical
K
Shearx
K
Shearz
K
 Overturning
Moment, Mx
lb-ft
 Overturning
Moment, Mz
lb-ft
Torque
lb-ft
Dead Only
0.38
0.00
0.00
-704.87
2.34
0.02
1.2 Dead+1.0 Wind 0 deg - No
Ice
0.46
0.00
-0.42
-7340.52
2.84
0.09
0.9 Dead+1.0 Wind 0 deg - No
Ice
0.34
0.00
-0.42
-6975.79
2.09
0.06
1.2 Dead+1.0 Wind 45 deg - No
Ice
0.46
0.42
-0.30
-5439.12
-6469.51
-329.23
0.9 Dead+1.0 Wind 45 deg - No
Ice
0.34
0.42
-0.30
-5111.95
-6352.92
-311.59
1.2 Dead+1.0 Wind 90 deg - No
Ice
0.46
0.60
-0.00
-859.67
-9143.52
-465.07
0.9 Dead+1.0 Wind 90 deg - No
Ice
0.34
0.60
-0.00
-618.58
-8979.89
-439.87
Dead+Wind 0 deg - Service
0.38
0.00
-0.16
-3140.18
2.34
0.04
Dead+Wind 45 deg - Service
0.38
0.16
-0.11
-2426.75
-2432.39
-122.71
Dead+Wind 90 deg - Service
0.38
0.23
0.00
-705.40
-3440.48
-173.65
Program Version 8.1.1.0 - 6/3/2021 File:K:/NTL_Telecom/Workflow/Crown Castle/_Small Cell/VCA2/SMC - San Mateo/151-SANMATEO_151/4 - Structural
Analysis/Model/Design B - 25' - 8' Luminaire - Street Sign.eri
487 of 682

--- page 488 ---
Crown Node ID: CA_SF_SANMATEO_151
        KH Project #: KHCLE-35083
Crown SCU #: 508918
                                         Page 6
kimley-horn.com
421 Fayetteville Street, Suite 600, Raleigh, NC 27601
(919) 677 2000
APPENDIX B
Aluminum Pole Analysis
488 of 682

--- page 489 ---
FLEXURAL STRENGTH
ADM 2010
Input
- Member Forces:
Mu
9.184 kip ft
= factored flexural stress at base of pole (from TNX)
Cantilever
"Y"
= Cantilevered pole? (Y/N)
Moments Cb (Between Brace Points)
- Shaft Properties:
Sides
0
= number of sides of shaft (0 for round)
Do
7 in
= diamter of shaft at grade
tshaft
0.16 in
= thickness of shaft at grade
Dp
2 in
= diameter of unreinfoced pole penetration at base
- Aluminum Properties (Table A.3.4):
Ftu
30 ksi
= ultimate tensile strength
Fty
25 ksi
= tensile yield strength
Fcy
25 ksi
= compressive yield strength
Fsu
19 ksi
= shear ultimate strength
E
10100 ksi
= Modulus of Elasticity
f.tr
0.75
= phi factor for tension rupture
f
0.90
= phi factor for other limit states
ALUMINUM_Flexural Capacity_Pipe_w_Pentration - ADM 2010_v20180120.xmcd
Page 1 of 3
489 of 682

--- page 490 ---
OUTPUT:
Cb
2.1
Cantilever
"Y"
=
if
12.5 Mu
2.5 Mu
3 MA
4 MB
3 MC
otherwise
= bending coefficient C.b (F.1.1.1)
Cb
2.1
Di
Do
2 tshaft
6.68 in
= inside diameter
Di
6.68 in
Ro
Do
2
3.5 in
Rb
Ro
0.5 tshaft
= radius to mid-thickness
Rb
3.42 in
Ri
Ro
tshaft
= radius to inside wall
Ri
3.34 in
Ix
4
Ro
4
Ri
4
= moment without penetration
Ix
20.118 in4
Ixp
Dp tshaft
3
12
Dp tshaft Rb
2
3.744 in4
= moment of penetration
(assuming rect. at Rb from NA)
Ixp
3.744 in4
Sx
Ix
Ixp
Ro
= section modulus
Sx
4.678 in3
Mn.cy
1.17 Fcy Sx
= nominal compressive yielding strength (F.6.1)
Mn.cy
11.404 kip ft
Mn.ty
1.17 Fty Sx
= nominal tensile yielding strength (F.6.1)
Mn.ty
11.404 kip ft
kt
1.0
= tension coefficient (A.3.1.3, Table A.3.3)
Mn.tu
1.24 Ftu
Sx
kt
= nominal tensile rupture strength (F.6.1)
Mn.tu
14.503 kip ft
ALUMINUM_Flexural Capacity_Pipe_w_Pentration - ADM 2010_v20180120.xmcd
Page 2 of 3
490 of 682

--- page 491 ---
OUTPUT (Buckling Constants - Table B.4.2):
1.0 ksi
= Table B.4.2, Note 1
Btb
1.5 Fcy 1
Fcy
50000
1
5
Btb
45.7 ksi
Bt
Fcy 1
Fcy
50000
1
5
Bt
30.467 ksi
Dtb
Btb
2.7
Btb
E
1
3
Dtb
2.8 ksi
Dt
Bt
4.5
Bt
E
1
3
Dt
0.978 ksi
S1
Btb
Bt
Dtb
Dt
2
69.958
Rb
tshaft
21.375
S2
Ct
= S.2 is arbitrarily large because N/A
Fb
Btb
Dtb
Rb
tshaft
Rb
tshaft
S1
if
2 E
16
Rb
tshaft
1
Rb
tshaft
35
2
Rb
tshaft
S2
if
Bt
Dt
Rb
tshaft
otherwise
= Section F.6.2
Fb
32.757 ksi
Mn.lb
Fb Sx
= nominal local buckling strength (F.6.2)
Mn.lb
12.771 kip ft
Mn'
f Mn.cy
f Mn.ty
f.tr Mn.tu
f Mn.lb
Mn'
10.3
10.3
10.9
11.5
kip ft
Mn
min
Mn'
Mn
10.3 kip ft
rf
Mu
Mn
rf
89.5 %
ADM References - Flexure
COMPRESSION CALCS
ADM References - Compression (Does not Control)
ALUMINUM_Flexural Capacity_Pipe_w_Pentration - ADM 2010_v20180120.xmcd
Page 3 of 3
491 of 682

--- page 492 ---
Crown Node ID: CA_SF_SANMATEO_151
        KH Project #: KHCLE-35083
Crown SCU #: 508918
                                         Page 7
kimley-horn.com
421 Fayetteville Street, Suite 600, Raleigh, NC 27601
(919) 677 2000
APPENDIX C
Base Plate and Anchor Rod Calculations
492 of 682

--- page 493 ---
Monopole Base Plate Connection
#VALUE!
Anchor Rod Data
Anchor Rod Summary
(units of kips, kip-in)
(4) 1" ø bolts (A325 N; Fy=92 ksi, Fu=120 ksi) on 9.9" BC
           Pu_c = 11.2
Pn_c = 65.03
Stress Rating
           Vu = 0.15
Vn = 29.26
17.2%
Base Plate Data
           Mu = n/a
Mn = n/a
Pass
10.5" W x 0.625" Plate (Aluminum A6063-T6; Fy=25 ksi, Fu=30 ksi);   Clip: 0 in
Base Plate Summary
Stiffener Data
Max Stress (ksi):
18.35
(Roark's Flexural)
(8) 3"H x 2"W x 0.5"T, Notch: 0"
Allowable Stress (ksi):
22.5
 plate: Fy= 25 ksi ; weld: Fy= 70 ksi
Stress Rating:
81.6%
Pass
 horiz. weld: 0.25" fillet
 vert. weld: 0.25" fillet
Stiffener Summary
Horizontal Weld:
24.5%
Pass
Pole Data
Vertical Weld:
20.6%
Pass
7" x 0.16" round pole (Aluminum A6063-T6; Fy=25 ksi, Fu=30 ksi)
Plate Flexure+Shear:
19.1%
Pass
Plate Tension+Shear:
24.3%
Pass
Plate Compression:
52.4%
Pass
Pole Summary
Punching Shear:
33.9%
Pass
Analysis Results
Connection Properties
Iar (in)
0
Moment (kip-ft)
9.18
Axial Force (kips)
0.45
Shear Force (kips)
0.60
Moment (kip-ft)
Axial Force (kips)
Shear Force (kips)
0.00
BU #
Applied Loads
Site Name 
SANMATEO_151
Order #
Analysis Considerations
Site Info
TIA-222 Revision
H
Grout Considered:
No
0.45
0.60
Adjusted Pole Reactions
Analysis Date: 3/13/2023
CCIplate - Version 4.0.1
493 of 682

--- page 494 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-8246
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Brad Underwood
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
December 13, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Wireless Permit Approval at 535 Clark Drive (Permit# WC-2023-000219) - Appeal
RECOMMENDATION:
Hold a public hearing to consider an appeal from a resident within 500 feet of the proposed site of a wireless permit 
application that was approved by the Director of Public Works.
BACKGROUND:
On October 10, 2023, the City of San Mateo (“City”) staff received a Wireless Facilities Communications Permit Application 
(“Application”) from Crown Castle, working on behalf of Verizon for the installation of wireless communication facilities on 
an existing wood utility pole within the public right-of-way (Attachment 3). The location of the proposed wireless 
communications facility is in the San Mateo Park neighborhood approximately 60-feet east of the Clark Drive/Midway 
Avenue/ Edgewood Road intersection on an existing wood utility pole (PG&E ID# 110072203) within the public sidewalk. 
Attachment 1 shows the proposed facility’s location and photo simulation renderings. 
 
As required by the San Mateo Municipal Code (“SMMC”) Chapter 17.10, “Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public 
Right-of-Way”, Crown Castle must meet all requirements and design standards as outlined in SMMC Sections 17.10.040 
and 17.10.050. This includes, but is not limited to, a full permit application form and providing mailed notices to nearby 
residents within a 500-foot radius of the proposed project site of the proposed wireless small cell facility. Based on the 
review of all the submitted documents, staff determined that the application and proposed installation meet the required 
conditions of approval as outlined in SMMC Chapter 17.10.
 
After its review, the City conditionally approved the Application on November 16, 2023. As required by the SMMC Section 
17.10.070, a decision notice was posted on November 16, 2023 on the City‘s Small Cell Infrastructure website. The notice 
advised residents of the Director of Public Works’ (“Director”) decision and allowed a 5-day appeal period. 
 
Approval Authority
 
The Director’s decision to approve this Wireless Facilities Communications permit application and the criteria the 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission (“Commission”) must evaluate in its determination of whether to grant or 
deny any appeal is based on SMMC Section 17.10.070(b)(1-4), which states in pertinent part:
 
Required Findings for Approval. The approval authority may approve or conditionally approve an application for a wireless 
permit submitted under this chapter when the approval authority finds all the following:
494 of 682

--- page 495 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
 
1.
The applicant and the proposed wireless facility comply with all applicable requirements of this Chapter and the 
City Design Standards and Application Requirements (“Design Standards”); and
 
2.
The application is deemed complete by the Director; and
 
3.
The proposed wireless facility complies with all applicable federal, state and local laws, regulations, rules, 
restrictions and conditions, which includes without limitation, the California Building Standards Code or any local 
building codes; the Americans with Disabilities Act, and all applicable health and safety requirements, including 
Public Utilities Commission General Order 95, (and as these rules may be amended or superseded); General Plan 
and any applicable specific plan; the San Mateo Municipal Code; and any conditions or restrictions in any permit or 
other governmental approval issued by any public agency with jurisdiction over the project; and
 
4.
The applicant has demonstrated that its proposed wireless facility will be in compliance with all applicable FCC 
rules and regulations for human exposure to RF emissions.
 
Appeal to Wireless Permit
 
Pursuant to SMMC Section 17.10.070(g), the appellant on appeal has the burden of proof for establishing the basis for 
seeking the reversal of the permit approval.
 
On November 20, 2023, the City received an appeal from Linda San Felipe (“Appellant”), which included four items as basis 
for the appeal (“Basis Items”)(Attachment 2). 
 
Therefore, the appropriate scope of appeal is as follows:
Basis 1: Site Location in Residential District
Basis 2: Property Values
Basis 3: Aesthetics
Basis 4: Pole Selection and Alternate Site #07
 
Pursuant to SMMC Section 17.10.070(g), the Commission shall hold a public hearing to consider and act on the appeal de 
novo and in accordance with the required findings by issuing a decision at the hearing.
 
Staff Review
 
Staff reviewed the wireless permit application for conformance to SMMC Section 17.10.070(b)(1-4).
 
Regarding Basis 1, site location in residential district, the applicant provided an Alternate Site Analysis, included in 
Attachment 3 on page 170-175, that assessed all poles within 500 feet of the proposed site. All poles within 500 feet are 
within the same R1B residential zoning, and there are no other alternative locations with more preferred zoning.
 
Regarding Basis 2, property values, the City’s Design Standards do not consider property values when reviewing wireless 
permit applications. Property values are speculative in nature, can be affected by a multitude of different reasons, and 
would be impractical for staff to assess.
 
Regarding Basis 3, aesthetics, the project design of a side-arm attachment with cylindrical shrouding was reviewed in 
compliance with the City’s Design Standards. Staff determined that the metal side-arm sufficiently shrouds the attachment 
and wiring, and the cylindrical shroud will provide a smoother and less obtrusive silhouette for the facility.
 
495 of 682

--- page 496 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regarding Basis 4, pole selection and Alternate Site #07, the appellant states that Alternate Site #07, located within the 
island at the intersection of Clark Drive/Midway Avenue/Edgewood Road, is a better location for siting the small cell 
facility that is farther away from homes. However, the Alternate Sites Analysis stated multiple reasons for why Site #07 
would not be feasible:
1.
Pole equipment spacing would not comply with General Order-95 clearance requirements as power and 
communication lines from three (3) different directions are connected to the pole, leaving insufficient spacing for 
the proposed devices. California Public Utility Commission General Order-95 establishes requirements and 
clearances for all overhead electrical supply and communications facilities.
2.
Tree density and obstructions would affect the devices from meeting its coverage objective. Pruning of the tree to 
meet coverage objectives may be damaging or fatal to the island’s heritage trees for which the San Mateo Park 
Neighborhood Association (“SMP-NA”) has expressed a strong desire to protect. 
 
Based on the review of the Crown Castle application and the above, staff believes Crown Castle has met the requirements 
of the Municipal Code and Design Standards. Based on the above, staff recommends the Commission deny the appeal.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The public hearing to consider resident appeals does not have a direct impact on the City’s Budget other than costs 
associated with staff time which are paid for by the permit applicant.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This appeal is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Location Map and Simulations
Att 2 – Appeal Applications
Att 3 – Wireless Permit Application Files
STAFF CONTACT
Jason Hallare, Senior Engineer
jhallare@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7316
496 of 682

--- page 497 ---
497 of 682

--- page 498 ---
Proposed
Location

LEGEND

—-- City Limits

—— 500-ft Radius

@) Proposed Location

@ Unacceptable Alternate
@ Acceptable Alternate
## = Alternative Site No.

ATTACHMENT 1
Location Map

498 of 682


--- page 499 ---
7 LEGEND

City Limits
=| — 500-

ft Radius

@) Proposed Location

@ Unacceptable Alternate

@ Acceptable Alternate

## Pole ID Tag

NT No Tag on pole

ATTACHMENT 1
Pole ID Map

499 of 682


--- page 500 ---
1
2
CA_SF_SANMATEO_210M2 
535 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
PHOTO SIMULATION
Aerial View
500 of 682

--- page 501 ---
CA_SF_SANMATEO_210M2 
535 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
PHOTO SIMULATION
View 1
EXISTING VIEW
CLOSE UP
501 of 682

--- page 502 ---
CA_SF_SANMATEO_210M2 
535 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
PHOTO SIMULATION
View 2
EXISTING VIEW
CLOSE UP
502 of 682

--- page 503 ---
503 of 682

--- page 504 ---
504 of 682

--- page 505 ---
505 of 682

--- page 506 ---
506 of 682

--- page 507 ---


--- page 508 ---
Wireless Communications Permit 
 
508 of 682

--- page 509 ---
Public Works Department
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
pweng@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7300
Engineering Division
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403
  
Revised: March 2021
Wireless Communications Facilities 
Permit Application
INSTRUCTIONS:  
Prior to submittal of this Application, the Application Checklist and all other 
required materials, a meeting with staff is strongly encouraged. This voluntary 
informational meeting with City staff does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to 
begin.    
City staff may deem the application incomplete if the applicant fails to include 
any required information or materials. Applications shall comply with SMMC 
17.10 and the Design Standards and Application Requirements. 
Applicants may submit applications by appointment only. Please contact the 
Public Works Department for an appointment.
Applicant:
Name: ______________________________________________________
Company: ___________________________________________________
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________
Authorized Representative:
Name: ___________________________________________________________
Company: ________________________________________________________
Mailing Address: ___________________________________________________
City, State, Zip: ____________________________________________________
Phone: ____________________________ Fax: __________________________
E-mail:  __________________________________________________________
Pole Owner:
Name: ______________________________________________________
Company: ___________________________________________________
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________
Pole Owner’s Signature:
_________________________________________________________________
Printed Name: _________________________________ Date: _______________
Applicant’s Signature: (if different from Property Owner)
_________________________________________________________________
Printed Name: _________________________________ Date: _______________
Proposed Site Location and Description:
Proposed Project Address: ________________________________________________________      Pole Number a:_____________________________________
Zoning District (for ROW, provide nearest zoning district): ________________________________     a If in the ROW, provide the pole number for the streetlight or pole.
Latitude/Longitude of Location: __________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Construction Value ($)/Project Description:   _______________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Applicant’s Request:
WIRELESS PERMIT 
SECTION 6409 APPROVAL            
__________________________________________________________________
STAFF USE ONLY
Applicable Shot Clock Period (for informational purposes only):
90 days
__________
Pre-App Submittal Meeting ________________________________________
Neighborhood Meeting ____________________________________________
Application Submittal _____________________________________________
Application Deemed Complete _____________________________________
Shot Clock Expiration _____________________________________________
Conditionally Approved ___________________________________________
Appeal _________________________________________________________
509 of 682

--- page 510 ---
Public Works Department
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
pweng@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7300
Engineering Division
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403
Revised: March 2021
Wireless Communications Facilities
Permit Application Checklist
INSTRUCTIONS:
Prior to submittal of this Application Checklist, Application and all other 
required materials, a meeting with City staff is strongly encouraged. The City 
also recommends applicant holds a voluntary neighborhood meeting. These 
voluntary meetings shall not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin.   
City staff may deem the application incomplete if the applicant fails to include 
any required information or materials. Applications shall comply with SMMC 
17.10 and Design Standards and Application Requirements. 
All starred (*) items in the checklist below are not required for a Section 
6409 Approval.
Applicants may submit applications by appointment only. Please contact the 
Public Works Department for an appointment.
Applicant:
Name: ______________________________________________________
Company: ___________________________________________________
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________
Proposed Site Location and Description:
Proposed Project Address: ___________________________________________
Project Description: _________________________________________________
Pole Number a:_____________________________________________________
a If in the ROW, provide the pole number for the streetlight or pole.
Applicant’s Request:
WIRELESS PERMIT 
SECTION 6409 APPROVAL
OTHER(describe request)
__________________________________
APPLICATION CHECKLIST – REQUIRED MATERIALS
APPLICATION FORM AND DEPOSIT
PROJECT PLANS
VOLUNTARY NEIGBORHOOD MEETING 
SUMMARY
[Attachment 1]
PHOTO SIMULATIONS
[Attachment 2]
PUBLIC NOTICE, AFFIDAVIT, LOG OF 
COMMENTS
[Attachment 3]
PRIOR PERMITS & REGULATORY 
APPROVALS
[Attachments 4a, 4b, 4c, 4d]
PROPERTY OWNER’S AUTHORIZATION
[Attachment 5]
INITIAL CEQA ASSESSMENT
[Attachment 6]
RF COMPLIANCE REPORT
[Attachment 7]
NOISE COMPLIANCE REPORT
[Attachment 8]
SECTION 6409 EVALUATION (if applicable)
[Attachment 9]
PROJECT PURPOSE AND TECHNICAL 
OBJECTIVES INFORMATION*
[Attachment 10]
ALTERNATIVE SITES ANALYSIS*
[Attachment 11]
STRUCTURAL CERTIFICATION (if applicable)
[Attachment 12] 
510 of 682

--- page 511 ---
APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS – REQUIRED MATERIALS
The following Application Requirements contain the requirements for a complete wireless facility permit application. For the 
application to be deemed complete, the applicant must submit all the applicable application materials in the Application 
Checklist in accordance with the Application Requirements along with all other generally applicable materials required for 
the requested permit or approval.
Notes: All starred (*) items are not required for a Section 6409 Approval. After the City issues the requested permit, the 
applicant must obtain all other required permits (including, without limitation and as applicable, building, electrical, plumbing, 
encroachment, etc.) prior to performing the installation.
APPLICATION FORM AND DEPOSIT
Instructions: Complete the Wireless Facilities Permit Application  available on the City’s website or at the Public Works 
Department and submit the corresponding application deposit for the requested permit or approval. You may find the City’s 
fee schedule on the City’s website or contact the Public Works Department for appropriate filing fees.
PROJECT PLANS
Instructions: Provide two sets of complete 24 x 36-inch project plans drawn to a scale of not less than 1/16" equals one 
foot and a digital file of such plans in portable document format (PDF). Project plans must contain all the following: 
1.
Cover Sheet
A complete cover sheet must include at a minimum:
a detailed project description that specifies the proposed installation and/or modifications including without 
limitation all physical elements such as antennas, radios, power services, all cables, mounts, and all other 
elements of the proposed project
site information that includes the proposed site address, site latitude and longitude (WGS 84 datum), zoning 
classification of the nearest private property, project team contact information  site map, and pole number (if 
applicable)
2.
Site Survey (Only required for proposed ground mounted equipment)
Only a California-registered Civil Engineer or licensed surveyor may prepare the site survey. A complete site survey 
must include:
property and right-of-way boundaries with all bearings, distances, monuments, iron rods, caps or other markers 
clearly shown and called out
boundaries for all easements and/or dedications with all dimensions clearly shown and called out
approximate topographical contour lines with elevations called out
any trees at least 4 inches in diameter at a point approximately 4.5 feet above ground
all structures or improvements on the property or within the right of way within any block partially or entirely occupied 
by the project and any elements thereof
all structures or improvements on adjacent parcels within 15 feet from the property line
a north arrow, date, scale and legend
wet stamp and wet signature from the licensed preparer
general specifications and notes identifying the applicable public health and safety codes and standards
511 of 682

--- page 512 ---
3.
Site Development Plan
A complete site development plan must include:
plan-view drawings, which include:
the entire property or right-of-way block with the proposed project improvements
detailed before-and-after views for any equipment pads, enclosures, cabinets, pedestals and/or vaults
all existing and proposed equipment with all dimensions, labels and ownership identifications clearly called 
out
boundaries for all easements, encroachments and/or other rights-of-way for access and utilities in 
connection with the wireless site with all dimensions clearly shown and called out
all existing and proposed primary and backup utilities, including without limitation all cables, connectors, 
risers, conduits, cable shrouds, trays, bridges and/or doghouses, transformers, disconnect switches, panels, 
meters, pedestals, cabinets, vaults, generators and/or generator sockets 
detailed before-and-after elevation drawings from all four cardinal directions, which include:
all existing and proposed structures, improvements and/or fixtures with all dimensions clearly called out
all existing and proposed equipment with all dimensions, labels and ownership identifications clearly called 
out
all existing and proposed fiber optic cables, conduits, risers, guy wires, anchors, primary and secondary 
power lines clearly called out
callouts and notes for any proposed new or extended concealment elements
a north arrow, date, scale and legend
4.
Equipment Inventory
The equipment inventory does not need to include primary utility cables, panels or cabinets, or any other objects not 
primarily designed or intended for radio communications purposes. All other equipment must be inventoried with the 
following information for each component:
manufacturer and model number
basic dimensions (height, width, length and weight)
table showing volumes of all equipment
VOLUNTARY NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING SUMMARY
Instructions: Provide a summary of neighborhood meeting if conducted. Label the summary as “Attachment 1 –
Neighborhood Meeting Summary” and attach it to the application. If a meeting is not conducted, mark the checklist box 
with an “X”.
PHOTO SIMULATIONS
Instructions: Provide photo simulations of the proposed project as constructed. The photo simulations must be in a high-
resolution format and show the proposed facility from reasonable line-of-sight locations that would accurately and reliably 
reflect the appearance of the proposed facility and/or modifications as-built. Label these photo simulations “Attachment 2 –
Photo Simulations” and attach them to this application. Except as otherwise provided, photo simulations must contain all 
the following:
512 of 682

--- page 513 ---
1.
Current Site Photographs
Current site photographs must include:
photographs of the existing site from at least two different reasonable line-of-sight locations from public streets 
or other adjacent viewpoints;
a map detail showing each location where a photograph was taken, the proposed site and the direction to the 
site from each photo location;
Include a close-up view of the equipment, including all wires, conduits, equipment, etc.
2.
Photo Simulations
Photo simulations must include:
an accurate and reliable visual representation of the proposed facility from the same reasonable line-of-sight 
locations used in the current site photographs and must include without limitation all interconnecting cables, 
conduits, brackets, and electronic equipment such as antennas, radio units, powering, and the like;
a map detail showing each location where a photograph was taken, the proposed site and the direction to the 
site from each photo location;
Include a close-up view of the equipment, including all wires, conduits, equipment, etc.
3.
Section 6409 Photo Simulation 
For Section 6409 Approval applications, the applicant must provide at least one photo simulation that demonstrates the 
impact of the proposed modification on all concealment elements of the support structure. Concealment elements include 
but are not limited to radomes, cable shrouds, painting, landscaping, equipment enclosures and designs and/or 
techniques intended to blend with the surrounding built and/or natural environment.
PUBLIC NOTICE, AFFIDAVIT, LOG OF COMMENTS
Instructions: Provide a copy of the notice mailed to all property owners and residents within 500’ of the proposed project, 
proof of notification mailing (affidavit), and log of concerns, comments, questions with response in accordance with the
Application Requirements and Design Standards.  Label the notice, affidavit and log “Attachment 3 – PUBLIC NOTICE, 
AFFIDAVIT, LOG” and attach it to this application.
PRIOR PERMITS AND REGULATORY APPROVALS
Instructions: Provide true and correct copies of all the following:
1.
Prior Permits
If the applicant requests a Section 6409 Approval, provide copies of all prior local regulatory approvals (original siting 
permits and any modification permits) issued for the facility with any corresponding conditions of approval and project 
plans approved by the applicable regulatory authority. Alternatively, the applicant may submit a written justification that 
sets forth the reasons why prior regulatory approvals were not required for the wireless facility at the time it was 
constructed or modified. Label this documentation “Attachment 4a – Prior Permits” and attach it to this application. 
2.
FCC Licenses
If the applicant or service provider proposes to operate in FCC-licensed spectrum, provide proof of licenses for all 
planned operating bands. If there are federal build-out requirements, indicate which and whether they have been fully 
satisfied. If not satisfied, indicate what remains to be satisfied. Label this documentation “Attachment 4b – FCC 
Licenses” and attach it to this application.
513 of 682

--- page 514 ---
3.
FAA Forms
If the proposed facility requires the applicant to file FAA form 7460 or other documentation under Federal Aviation 
Regulation Part 77.13 et seq., or under the FCC rules, provide such documentation. Label this documentation 
“Attachment 4c – FAA Forms” and attach it to this application.
4.
Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) / Wireless ID Registration (WIR)
For all applications for facilities in the public right-of-way, provide a true and correct copy of the applicant’s CPCN and/or 
WIR issued by the California Public Utilities Commission or its successor agency. Label this documentation “Attachment 
4d – CPCN / WIR” and attach it to this application.
POLE OWNER’S AUTHORIZATION
Instructions: For privately owned poles, provide a letter of authorization from the pole owner that authorizes the applicant 
to perform the installation or modification. The letter must be signed by the owner. In lieu of a letter of authorization for 
facilities in the public right-of-way, the applicant may submit the property owner’s standard authorization form issued in the 
property owner’s regular course of business to demonstrate that the applicant has the authority to perform the installation or 
modification. Label this authorization “Attachment 5 – Property Owner’s Authorization” and attach it to this application.
INITIAL CEQA ASSESSMENT
Instructions: Complete, sign and attach to this application a fully executed Environmental Information Form. Label this form 
“Attachment 6 – Environmental Information Form” and attach it to this application. The Environmental Information Form 
may be obtained electronically on the City’s website or by contacting the Public Works Department. 
RF COMPLIANCE REPORT
Instructions: Provide an RF exposure compliance report prepared and certified by an RF engineer that certifies that the 
proposed facility, as well as any collocated facilities and any cumulative emissions from adjacent areas, will comply with 
applicable federal RF human exposure standards and limits. At a minimum, the RF exposure compliance report must provide 
the same information and in the same form as the FCC LSGAC Appendix A form for each band of operations. For projects 
on or attached to poles subject to CPUC General Order 95 regulation, provide evidence of compliance with CPUC General 
Order 95, Rule 94. Label this report “Attachment 7 – RF Compliance Report” and attach it to this application. 
The RF compliance report must include: 
the actual frequency, actual or maximum power levels (in watts effective radiated power (ERP)), and the actual 
or maximum transmitting channels for all existing and proposed antennas at the site.
exhibits that show: 
the location and orientation of all transmitting antennas; 
the boundaries of areas with RF exposures (whether individually or cumulatively) in excess of the 
uncontrolled/general population limit (as that term is defined by the FCC); 
the boundaries of areas with RF exposures (whether individually or cumulatively) in excess of the 
controlled/occupational limit (as that term is defined by the FCC).
Note: Each such boundary must be clearly marked and identified for every transmitting antenna at the project site, whether 
owned/operated by the applicant or another licensee. To the extent that the project site contains collocated transmitters from 
multiple operators, the RF exposure compliance report must evaluate all the transmitting antennas that may cause cumulative 
emissions.
514 of 682

--- page 515 ---
NOISE COMPLIANCE REPORT
Instructions: Provide a noise compliance report for the proposed facility and all associated equipment including all 
environmental control units, sump pumps, temporary backup power generators, and permanent backup power generators in 
order to demonstrate compliance with the City’s noise regulations. The noise compliance report must be prepared and 
certified by an engineer and include an analysis of the manufacturers’ specifications for all noise-emitting equipment and a 
depiction of the proposed equipment relative to all adjacent property lines. In lieu of a noise compliance report, the applicant 
may submit evidence from the equipment manufacturer that the ambient noise emitted from all the proposed equipment will 
not, both individually and cumulatively, exceed the applicable limits. Label this analysis “Attachment 8 – Noise Compliance 
Report” and attach it to the application.
SECTION 6409 EVALUATION
Instructions: If the applicant requests approval pursuant to Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation 
Act of 2012 (codified as 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a)), the applicant must complete and submit justification whether the proposed 
modification is an eligible facilities request that complies with the applicable FCC substantial change thresholds. Label this
worksheet “Attachment 9 – Section 6409 Evaluation” and attach it to the application.
PROJECT PURPOSE AND TECHNICAL OBJECTIVES*
Instructions: For applications not subject to Section 6409, provide the following information to demonstrate the intended 
technical service objectives and the nature of the existing service capabilities of the applicant’s network in the area that would 
be served by the proposed facility or enhanced by the proposed modification. Label this analysis “Attachment 10 – Project 
Purpose and Technical Objectives” and attach it to the application.
1.
Project Purpose
Identify and describe the project purpose. Possible responses analyze whether the proposed facility or modification will: 
add new personal wireless service coverage to an area in which the licensee does not currently provide any 
personal wireless service coverage;
add new personal wireless service capacity to an area in which the licensee currently provides personal wireless 
service coverage.
If the project has a different purpose from the options described above, provide such purpose in full detail.
2.
Technical Objectives
Provide a detailed written statement that describes the technical objectives the applicant intends the proposed wireless 
facility to achieve and the factual reasons why the proposed location, centerline height and equipment configuration are 
necessary to achieve those objectives. In addition, the statement must include all the following required information 
and/or materials:
a street-level map that shows the general geographic area of the service area(s) to be improved through the 
proposed wireless facility (the “Service Area”);
a written narrative that describes the uses (commercial, residential, primary thoroughfare, highway, etc.) within 
the Service Area, and the manner in which those uses would be negatively affected if the Service Area were to 
remain unaddressed;
a statement as to whether the applicant conducted any drive test(s) and, if so, all drive test results and data (in 
.XLS or .CSV or similar format) together with a report that describes how and when the applicant conducted 
such test(s).
3.
Network Map
Provide an overview map of the applicant’s network within the City’s jurisdictional and territorial boundaries that shows 
(1) all the existing wireless facilities that applicant currently owns and/or operates and (2) all future wireless facilities that 
are reasonably foreseeable within two years of the application submission. The map must provide a legend that 
515 of 682

--- page 516 ---
distinguishes between “macro” cells and small cell facilities.
ALTERNATIVE SITES ANALYSIS*
Instructions: For applications not subject to Section 6409, provide a detailed written analysis that describes how the 
proposed wireless facility complies with all the applicable requirements in the San Mateo Municipal Code, which includes 
without limitation the provisions specific to wireless facilities, and all the alternative locations and designs considered before 
submitting this application. Label this analysis “Attachment 11 – Alternative Sites Analysis” and attach it to the application. 
The Alternative Sites Analysis shall be included as part of the neighborhood meeting, if conducted.  In addition, the analysis 
must include all the following required information and/or materials:
a street-level map that shows the general geographic area surrounding the proposed location annotated to show:
all existing wireless facilities within the relevant geographic area
the search ring used for this particular project.  The search ring shall be a minimum radius of 500’.
all locations for each alternative considered for this particular project
for each alternative site considered, a detailed written description that includes, without limitation all the following:
the nearest physical address
zoning district designation for the nearest private property
support structure type considered
general design concept and concealment elements/techniques considered
overall height and achievable antenna centerline height
the factual reasons why the applicant considered the potential alternative site location and/or design to 
be unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not in accordance with the development standards in San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. Note: This explanation must include a meaningful comparative 
analysis and such technical information and other factual justification as are necessary to document the 
reasons why each alternative is unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not as consistent with the 
development standards in Chapter 17.10. Conclusory statements that a particular alternative is 
unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not in accordance with the development standards in Chapter 
17.10 will be deemed incomplete.
If the applicant did not locate any alternatives within the search ring, the analysis must expressly state that no 
such alternatives were considered.
STRUCTURAL CERTIFICATION
Instructions: Provide certification prepared and stamped by a professionally licensed structural engineer certifying that the 
pole foundation and attachments meet or exceed design parameters detailed in the design standards. Label this analysis 
“Attachment 12 – Structural Certification” and attach it to the application.  
 
 
516 of 682

--- page 517 ---
Project Plans 
 
517 of 682

--- page 518 ---
CROWN

11.1-Sheet Index
sheet # sheet Description Page (CROWN CASTLE
fia hime BEET i Ceomoasae
bas SIT PLAN z One PARC PLACE. STE, 00
iz POLE ELEVATIONS 2 Suaun cm ses
i Enstne oros +
pit SONSTRUCTION OETALE = RECORD DRAWINGS |SSUE DATE
ELecTmicaL DETALS =
IEQUPUENT SPECIFICATIONS T

CASTLE

VCA2 SAN MATEO BRIDGE HEADEND
535 CLARK DR, SAN MATEO, CA 94402

LAT: 37.565984° LONG: -122.349195°
110072203

EXISTING WOOD POLE
580714
CA_SF_SANMATEO 210M2

Exp. 09/01/24

PROJECT NAME:
PROJECT ADDRESS:

COORDINATES:
POLE ID #:

PROJECT TYPE:
CUSTOMER NODE ID #:
CROWN NODE ID #:
HUB NAME: SAN MATEO HUB

CARRIER: VERIZON
CROWN CASTLE BILLING /SCU #: 509081

Kimley»Horn

23878 ENEASSY PARKWAY, SUITE 200
‘AKRON, OH 44333
PHONE: (26) 808-7778
‘WWW KIULEY-HORN.COM

-£ | USA North

Know what's below.

QW Call before you dig.

California and Nevada
Call Two Working Days Before You Dig! wauner

811 / 800-227-2600 DATE SUBMITTAL

‘THIS DRAWING IS COPYRIGHTED AND IS,
‘THE SOLE PROPERTY OF THE OWNER. ITIS.
PROOUCED SOLELY FOR USE BY THE
‘OWNER AND ITS APFLIATES.
REPRODUCTION OF USE OF THIS DRAWING
ANDIOR THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN
IT1S FORBIDDEN WITHOUT THE WRITTEN.
PERNIGGION OF THE OWNER,

PROJECT TEAM PROJECT SUMMARY NODE VICINITY MAP
cn sEPUCANTINEO uaisoicTion POLE OWNER INFO
Company: KILEY RN Company: CROWN CASTLE CITY OF SAN NaTEO PAGING GAO ELECTING
feos’ S76 ENBASSY PUY, SUTE 200 ‘eens! 1 PARK PLACE HANDICAPPED REQUIREMENTS Cotman (Pass
‘Anon, On 4088 DUBLIN, Ga ose “FACLITY 5 UNMANNED AND NOT FOR : REVISIONS
GM eannole SACRAMENTO, CA 95669
Conact! TYLER REIGETTER Contact JASON CAMARENA " STREET CLASSIFICATION: Nol Dare: COMMENT
Prone: 2162738000 Phone: 9252015800 HAMDICAPRED ACCESS: loc 1 [oor araozs| SSUED FOR
mai ylrseiceterakinley-nam.com mat proncamarenaBarowncaste.som REQUIREMENTS ARE NOT REQUIRED. consTaucTiON
© [oon72cz9|"
POWER COMPANY: ‘CoNsTRUCTION
{GERDA CASTLE UTILITY CONTACT. PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC (PG&E) AD :ROELT FARCE MIFOAVATION. ‘8 [091072023] ssUED FOR REVIEW
c ARLE CARRION PARCEL tosr2e0
Comet SALE CARR ZONING CLASSFICATION: RIA
Ema: eatlacarion Serounoaste.som puuvenna RequIReMents: PROJECT NAME
FACILITY HAS NO PLUMBING rc VCA2 SAN MATEO BRIDGE HEADEND
coves club
[ALL [WORK AND MATERIALS SHALL BE PERFORMED AND INSTALLEO IN
[ACCORDANCE WITH THE CURRENT EDITIONS OF THE FOLLOWING CODES AS GROWN NODE ID NUMBER
‘ADOPTED BY THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT AUTHORITIES, NOTHING IV THESE «
PLANS IS TO BE CONSTRUED TO PERMIT WORK NOT CONFORMING TO THE 5
AREAS GOVERNING CODES. i CA_SF_SANMATEO_210M2
|. CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE cB0-2018,
2. CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATIVE CODE. (NGL. TITLES 24 & 25) 2019,
3, ANSIEIA-222-F LIFE SAFETY CODE NFPA. HILLSBOROUGH DON. NODE ADDRESS
4) BUILOING OFFICIALS AND CODE ADMINISTRATORS (BOCA), incomscrticd Sa Rmares =
7. CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE CPC-2018, Ares) 7
8! LOCAL BUILONG CODE(S). N
8. COUNTY ANDIOR COUNTY ORDINANCES. SanMateo Sy, HUB NAME
10, MUST COMPLY TO LATEST CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE (AND LATEST NN
‘MUNICIPAL FIRE CODE). \ SAN MATEO HUB
11, CALIFORNIA GENERAL ORDER 95 AND 128, \
a\ ». [KH JOB NUMBER | [IN HOUSE
\ & %
PROJECT DESCRIPTION \ ss . KHCLE-46961 RaW BN. Bs
‘THIS PROJECT WILL INCLUDE THE INSTALLATION OF & NEW WIRELESS RADIO FACILITY AND ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT TO AN EXISTING WOOD POLE (ALL POLE ATTACHMENTS TO BE APPROVED BY POLE \ cs) cf ES
OWNER), er 1 Mateo fhe ‘SHEET TITLE
at Se t ‘
NEW EQUIPMENT WILL INCLUDE (REFER TO DETAIL PAGES FOR SPECIFICATION) Lago \ My, s ITLE SHEET
@) 5G RADIOSIANTENNAS 2 : mn, BNO
(i) SoneTRATED SMART POLE METER Y % a
EXCAVATION/RESTORATION WILL INCLUDE: ZN MATEO HIRHUANDS S
@) GROUND WELLS 265 (Unincorporated Area) wuctwameen) [pace
(2) TRENCH ae ® rd t N
(3 & 4
. BELMONT 3 771.1 1 OF7
\e, el :
% Nae hf incorporated oo D
Ve ; Area) = PLOTSGALE 1A @ ane 1DOTAT

{2\/n_ascm\ee\Som CaS Caf\VOAE\SAC~ San Mato 20-STD_21GKZ\? - Cntrton Dr DWE\CA SF SONATE. 2102.2 Ro 2005-09-17

Sian Mee

518 of 682


--- page 519 ---
{5\/n_aacn\ee\Som Cat. Sn af\VOAE\SHC~ San at 210-SATD 210K? - Cntrton rn WC\CA SF SONATE 2102.2 Rn 2005-09-17

Sie" ae Seo

GENERAL PROJECT NOTES ABBREVIATIONS AND SYMBOLS POLE RISER PLAN POLE om 10072205, tte por PROPOSED ANTENNA AZIMUTHS __| [CROWN CASTLE NODE #: CA_SF_SANMATEO_210M2 CROWN
| RIGHT-OFSNAY USE PERWIT SHALL BE OBTAINED BY CONTRACTOR PRIOR TO COwmENGNG | [—————_ CENTERLINE CCLBIBING SPACE TO BE PROVIDED PER GO95 STANDARDS
ee ech ccummn eta Gace SECTOR 100 (GS COORDINATES we CASTLE
2. ALLWORKTO RE CONDUGTEDIN CITY RIGHT OF WY. UN. rr Wz POWER GONDUT a 1: .
3, ALLDISTURBED LANDSCAPING SHALL BE REPLACED TO SIILAR EXISTING CONDITION, PROPERTY LINE oer cpomicnenue ree coupurrar i020 203 SECTOR 3. 530 LAT: 37.565984 CROWN CASTLE
‘%_ ANY SIDEWALK CLOSURE SHALL BE COORDBIATED WITH THE CITY AND PROPER SIGNAGE WLL we oo LONG: -122,349195° GROAN CASTLE
aes —Row—now— RIGHT-OF-WAY 1.28" CROW CASTLE FIER & . 8 ‘CURB rere e200
‘5, TENPORARY LIGHTING WL B€ COORDINATED WITH CITY AND PROMIDED WHENEVER EXISTNG POWER conoUT AT 1640 3:0 ie) Bees
UcHT¥G Ie REMOVED OR UNAVAILAGLE Ae REQUIRED. _ — naen -o) ANTENNA /RADIOS AT 1200 ) POLE TYPE: EXISTING WOOD POLE
16, NOMATERIALS OR EQUIPMENT SHALL BE STORED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY OR BLOCK ACCESS ee eee Nee eran POLE MOUNTED RECORD DRAWINGS ISSUE DATE
TO PRIVATE PROPERTY. SWART METER POLE ID # 110072203 berverons
LUBE RETURNED TOE F
NODE LOCATION. EXISTING WOOD POLE: AND GROUNDING
‘8 ALLWORK TO COMPLY WITH OSHA AND CITY GUIDELINES, Powe 7 ‘conputr
8. THE CONTRACTOR shalt BE RESPONSIBLE TO REMOVE AND REPLACE, AT THEIR COST. ANY * POWER ANTENNA RAD CENTER: 19-11"
AND ALL DAWAGED PAVEMENT, SIDEWALK, CUR® AND GUTTER OUTSIDE THE PAY Lm conputr 4.0" FIBER
OAWAGE QUE TO THelR ACTMITES ON THE PROJECT. THIS INCLUDES, BUTISNOTLMMTED To. | | —S——S— SANITARY SEWER onputr SUBJECT POLE IS LOCATED IN
‘THE REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT OF NEWLY CRACKED, THE REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT OF
EXISTING CRACKS VIHERE THE CRACKS HAVE BEEN ENLARGED OUE TO THE CONTRACTORS stort ona SIDE-ARM CITY OF SAN MATEO R.O.W,
‘OPERATIONS, THE REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT OF DEFORMED PAVEMENT. CURB AND
GUTTER, SIDEWALK, ETC... ALL SAIN CUTS USED FOR THE REMOVAL OF THESE ITEMS SHALL SIDE-ARM
BE PERPENDICULAR AND PARALLEL TO THE CENTERLINE CONTROLLING THATITEM, OF AY THE waren CANISTER N on
DISCRETION OF THE CITY INSPECTOR ANTENA Exp. 09/01/24
Ltr ancum eowen MoANTED <)
SIDEARM y,
OVERHEAD UTIITY UNE CANISTER
I S1UE COLORED EQUIPMENT Is NEW OR EXISTNGTO-E:NOOIFID| L447
\ y ——o
Kimley»Horn
\ 6' SEWER MAIN
Fa 3 Ses EMBASSY PARKUAY,SUTE 200
° AKRON. OH 8333,
fo, PHONE: (28) S078
— row. Wii KRMEHORNCOM
s _ T
. —s——}s—__._# a Sy ROW
ROW. sw. ow
ey om mS “THIS DRAWING I COPVRIGHTED AND IS.
z now. __3———___ THE GOLE PROPERTY OF THE OWNER. FFIS
sw PRCOUCED SOLELY ron USE BY THE
_ Foe Foe Sumer ano irs AFFILIATES.
sw roc REPRODUCTION on UBE OF THIS ORAWING
tMesyPyY - SeseIe ee aneoy T iris ronBIoveN withOur THe WRITTEN
oc g® (B7.565919", -122.348621") PEnNIGGION OF ME OVER.
LINES (TYP.) Foo CLARK DR STRUCTURE ID: 100262456
{OUND WELL ( TYP.) (GROWN CASTLE NODE) FACE OF- —
EXISTING WOOD POLI CROWN CASTLE NODE #: CURB (TYP)? a DATE ‘SUBMITTAL
, a
FACE OF CA_SF_SANMATEO_210M2 EXISTING, 1D POLE, la Sir
BUSH. CURB (TYP.) POLE ID#: 2b F%
410072203 *
ow — =
— _ a.
ow =|
ow — —_ a)
208 | = —
oo | ©) [restos
wv ow — . EXISTING Ino] pare: COMMENT
ow —— | DRIVEWAY (TYP) | [> Joonaanaal/SSUEDFOR
on ow — | __ [SOnSTHUETION
CONCRETE | = 0 |oon7:2025) SoNSTRUGTION
SIDEWALK (TYP.) i == '& [o9107/2025|1SSUED FOR REVIEW
on —— PROWECTNAME
BS 4 ————
VCA2 SAN MATEO BRIDGE HEADEND
FIBER:
‘CONDUIT :
| APPROX.
% | °8/\_~ BUILDING WINDOW. ROW LINE ‘GROWN NODE IO NUMBER
FIBER VAULT- /AGGREGAY \ (TYP.) (TYP.) CA_SF_SANMATEO_210M2
(PERMITTED \ SURFACING
‘SEPARATELY BY 2 | \
OTHERS) REPLACE SIDEWALK THAT IS DAMAGED AS A NODE ADDRESS
RESULT OF CO@STRUCTION. REPLACE FULL 5 =
SIDEWALK PANELS FROM SCORE LINE TO 7” SNWAES. an
SCORE LINE. MACH EXISTING SIDEWALK 6° SEWER MAI . 2
CROSS SECTION FOR RAGLACEMENT SIDEWALK (TYP.) 3 woe NAME
~~ SAN WATEO HUB
* ROPERTY
: LINE (TYP.) KH vosnumeen | [IN HOUSE
oRAWey. els
APPROX. ROW LINE % SEAS coca oon
. . no Zz \, BUILDING” SHEET TLE
Nos My FOOTPRINT SITE PLAN
ee, yr.)
%
% ON mw N
[| cy D\\| [aterwumsen)] [Pace
he V At. 2 OF7
EQUIPMENT AND ANTENNA PLAN Tite phOr. gea yao| ® [OVERALL SITE PLAN TEP PLOT. Posy. ET 20 | [orecaie 1a Oanae. 128i

519 of 682


--- page 520 ---
{5\/n_aacn\ee\Som Cat. Sn af\VOAE\SHC~ San at 210-SATD 210K? - Cntrton rn WC\CA SF SONATE 2102.2 Rn 2005-09-17

Sie" ae Seo

(E) POLE TYPE: WOOD POLE NOTES: NOTES: CROWN
(E) POLE HEIGHT: 38'-9" 1. ALL BLUE COLORED EQUIPMENT IS NEWOR 1. ALL BLUE COLORED EQUIPMENT IS NEWOR CASTLE|
(E) POLE OWNER: PG&E EXISTING-TO-BE-MODIFIED EXISTING-TO-BE-MODIFIED ~~
" 2. ALL AZIMUTHS SHOWN ON THIS PAGE ARE GENERIC - SEE 2. ALL AZIMUTHS SHOWN ON THIS PAGE ARE GENERIC - SEE CROWN CASTLE
PAGE A1.1 FOR SPECIFIC AZIMUTH DETAILS PAGE A1.1 FOR SPECIFIC AZIMUTH DETAILS CROWNCASTIE. ay
3, ALL NEW EQUIPMENT TO BE PAINTED / WRAPPED TO 3. ALL NEW EQUIPMENT TO BE PAINTED / WRAPPED TO DUBIN cn see.
(€) POLE 1D # 110072203 MATCH POLE COLOR MATCH POLE COLOR ESORO DRAGS ISSUE DATE:

POLE INFORMATION SCALE!NT.S.| 1

JOP OF EMSTING F
Top oF EwsTING POE EL ESe=9" AGE

Exp. 09/01/24

PRIMARY POWER

PRMARY POWER
ies ee

pamany Power prmuny Power
EL ESe TT ACL Ea as 7 as cen ao a
PREPARED BY
nonsy ONES aay poNEs, ay 20NER, say pone, Kiml YH
a a SE BREe a a SPERSe a SEAR PRES & Se imley»Horn
Na — spau uv som a
PONT OF conne.cTON wt EL ER" AE 0-3" A ders ens0¥ PARMUAY. LTE 200
Laat a eT] PHONE: (216) 806-7775
LUNE RELOCATION REQ, PER RELOCATED GUARD Anu LUNE RELOCATION REO. PER RELOCATED GUARD AR WH XBNLEY-HORNLCOM
(005 RULE 38 (11) —— 6085 RULE 28 (TWP) ( $axcca9 cou eves
uA anu (1. FT seLocnTED communes
cnn Ae (1) on ean THis DRAWING 6 COPYRIGHTED AND 6
ELOCETED Cou UNE —r cou une com guy RELOCATED Cou LNES THIS DRAWING Ig COPYRIGHTED AND IG.
5 DOM Guy a coun guy ow uv een e EL 26-4" AGL Proauceo socet Fon Use BY HE
cae Ce ELCOATED COW UNE Eo AGL el 525-9 KE MoOHRED TOP oF AER RELOCATED Cou UNES Gist ano e Arrlaves.
cov ONE tL 825=7 AG cou une a eas See tL BIS AGL Remnepucmion on UBe or nas onawma
a ae FELGoRTED cou Une EL ERTO we __| scoommecomtuies 4 | MBON Te Rremuenen CovraneD
coun Une FL. g2 =" AGL oP oF see cou Une on PemIeetOn OF ME Oven.
ee : BL 258" OC a S2F=9" AL \oDIRED EASTNG
cov UN RELOCATED Toe e UNE RISER RELEASE:
Eee baer ale SL ERE= AL DATE SvMTAL
aoe H at
tor oF con 80x SESSA gr Bh ’ ?
aaa gt L210" AGL EL 227-0" AGL
3) ANTENNA /RADK - ANTENNA RAD CENTER ANTENNA RAD CENTER
BOT. OF COMM BOX (2Aberas/e701 3. O = Eo al eee ait At 3) ANTENNA/RADIOS
Sen Fase 10/03) Oar 10# oF MOUNT OF Moun {Ske Oerats’ 8/013
EL S110" AGL ee —— Spd #107013)
f
5 a Ste ae ae a a REVsIONE
ee ue BoTToM oF Mount Barto oF moun _|
soe tL S180" ACL EL B10" AGL jno[ pare | conan
2xSTNO WoOD POLE (See eta EXSTNG WoOD POLE . ste yeoo pove 7 feoracaoaa| SUED FOR
i701") 1.28" SoH 49 pve conour——= > loan anas SEO
For reek, POWER & ¥60U 72025] SONS TUCTION
GROUND WE 7 Jowera029|iesueD rom ne vw
~ 4.25" sou 40 YC CONDUIT SEE OETAL On PROJECT NAME
4 FoR FER, POW & 70CU .
ereuno wie 4 SoM 40 PVE FoR FIBER VCA2 SAN MATEO BRIDGE HEADEND
1/2" scx 40 ve conout—
on comer
‘GROWN NODE 1D NOWBER
d fF None sau
toe 604 cr aL a10-0" AL CA_SF_SANMATEO_210M2
RATED SUART POLE METER TOGO CT oe weten (SEE DETAL 8/01.
tL 39-2" AGL RATED Sule Pe
Bot 60a Cr cor, 60a or NODE ADORESE
tL 274" AGL ~ ARID SUT Poe METER 535 CLARK DA
TAL 14/01
(see DETAL 14/083) (See DETAL 14701.) SAN MATEO, CA 94402
+ risk — 1 paseR— TUS NAME
} 1" sow 40 pve FoR ABER
‘SAN MATEO HUB
ixnvoe Noween | [IW noUSE
cu crown wre coverto——_| ff u,grano, wre cove RBER VAULT
00 HOOLDNE Wood MOULONG emurreD KHCLE-asg61 ORAWMIBY. ES
SepanaTer ey oneeneD By: TOR
omens
crane cane SHEET TLE
crane oman
EL ao=0 EL 8050 el ao=0 H a ooo OLE ELEVATIONS
Lang oe c.ani 08 ! !
I I
cRONO weu.
1" ABER coNOUT To POLE A12 3 OF7
PROPOSED UNDERGROUND UTLITES NOT SHOWN. SEE SITE PLAN o wt SEE SIE PLAN FOF PROPOSED UNOERGROIND UH Lan, ;
8936" PLOT: 480" PLOY 3I8= 7 56" PLOT: “PLOT 6"
ELEVATIONS - EXISTING (LOOKING WEST, POLE ELEVATIONS - PROPOSED (LOOKING WEST, POLE ELEVATIONS - EXISTING (LOOKING SOUTH a POLE ELEVATIONS - PROPOSED (LOOKING SOUTH) 38" " 20 yomaeidewar
Pour ‘ U Act?" PLOT: 3/16" 4 x17" PLOT: ait 8 ‘ ) 11x17" BLOT-3it 12 1'x17" BLOT: 3/16" PLOTSOALE: 11 @ 2408, 1201417

520 of 682


--- page 521 ---
oe CROWN
ws» CASTLE

CROWN CASTLE
CROWN CASTLE,

(ONE PARK PLACE, STE. 200,
DUBLIN, CA 94566

‘RECORD DRAWINGS ISSUE DATE:
benieraoes

Kimley»Horn

23878 ENEASSY PARKWAY, SUITE 200
aK a3

PHONE: (26) 808-7778
\WW-KBILEY-HORNCOM

‘THIS DRAWING IS COPYRIGHTED AND IS,
‘THE SOLE PROPERTY OF THE OWNER. ITIS.
PROOUCED SOLELY FOR USE BY THE
‘OWNER AND ITS APFLIATES.
REPRODUCTION OF USE OF THIS DRAWING

PERNIGGION OF THE OWNER,

RELEASE
DATE SUBMITTAL

REVISIONS:

INo[ Dare: ‘COMMENT

TSSUED FOR

4 per8'2023| ConsTRUCTION

0 |oon7:2025) SoNSTRUGTION

’8 [0900772028 6sUED FOR REVIEW

PROJECT NAME,
VCA2 SAN MATEO BRIDGE HEADEND

‘GROWN NODE IO NUMBER
CA_SF_SANMATEO_210M2

NODE ADDRESS:

535 CLARK DA
SAN MATEO, CA 94402

HUB NAME
SAN MATEO HUB

[KH voB NuMBER _| [INHOUSE

KHCLE-46951  ORAWNEY. Es
CHECKED By: TOR

‘SHEET TLE:

-XISTING PHOTOS

SHEETNUMBER| [PAGE
A1.3 4 OF7
POLE PHOTO - EXISTING SCALE: N.T.S.| 8 | POLE PHOTO - EXISTING SCALE: NT.S.| 20] [plorscate: 141 @ 2008, 12@ 117"

{5\/n_aacn\ee\Som Cat. Sn af\VOAE\SHC~ San at 210-SATD 210K? - Cntrton rn WC\CA SF SONATE 2102.2 Rn 2005-09-17

Sie" ae Seo

521 of 682


--- page 522 ---
{5\/n_aacn\ee\Som Cat. Sn af\VOAE\SHC~ San at 210-SATD 210K? - Cntrton rn WC\CA SF SONATE 2102.2 Rn 2005-09-17

Sie" ae Seo

TALLAZMUTHS SHOWN ON
SEE PAGE Al FOR SPECIFIC
AEMUTHOSTALS. we CASTLE
4.9 MAK
Keep Back __FT From negovnuy oun Rows casTiE
Pou L coum castie
Oe PARK PLAGE, STE,200
this Antenna. FCC RF Public POLE WORKERS eg
Exposure Limits May Be I CORK CABLE RECORD DRAWINGS ISSUE DATE:
There is an antenna operation osiiezo2s
i A sur-on
Exceeded Within This Distance. high on this pole. Please follow HOISTING GAP
Call 888-632-0931 for Instructi guidance on signs near the antenna or
i salaal HI thi ber bel Te OWN
i . call the number below. APEROED TIDE Ama (CHOWN
Qualified Workers: anus month | oasis Fon GLa
i if 1 _-centerune
FCC Occupational Limits May Be CCERM 888-632-0931 ama Lo See
Exceeded Within This Distance. re exp. 09/04/24
PLAN VIEW
Site ID # ea —
36° MIN.
RF CAUTION SIGNAGE SCALE: NTS] 1 [AF NOTICE SIGNAGE ‘SCALE: NTS] § | COAX HANGER DETAIL ‘SCALE: NTS
24" MIN.
wooo UTIuTY POLE
TTEM | PARTNUMBER ] DESCRIPTION omeson [WATER | ary] or
No. PART NAME writes NEW METAL
7 | SABRWA40 | Side Am Bracket Tong 40" HotRotes | x1] 22s. | SREARM,
Recoway 4" Square | Wish 4375 | Steal SEMEL
40" Length Height 10° Galvanized TO
Square # 10
6Caien Street Rochester. NY 14611 PREPARED BY:
7: 585-2549353, NYMFG.COM i NS Kimle »Horn
ThorReTART A cRFDETA EA. coneacone Y
THEINFORMATION INTHS DRAWINGS To MAvINUM EXTENT
ITE SOLER DE EW VOR FEASIBLE 3875 EMBASSY PARKWAY. SUITE 260,
_ — [MARUFACTURING ANY REPRODUCTION AKRON. OH 8333,
| INPART OR ASA WHOLE WITHOUT PHONE: (216) 508-7775
—* \WAITEN PERMISSION OF NEW YORK Wii KRMEHORNCOM
n Nesuracruninc eenonvero
He
“THIS DRAWING I COPYRIGHTED AND 8
CCeNTERUNE THE GOLE PROPERTY OF THE OWNER, IFS
COMMENTS: Be wooD PRODUCED SOLELY FOR USE BY THE
POLE OWNER AND ITS AFFILIATES.
REPRODUCTION on UBE OF THIS ORAWING
ANOIOR THE RFORMATION CONTAINED IN
MisronBiovEN whouT THe WANTEN
PEnNIGGION OF ME OVER.
RELEASE
DESCRIPTION
Side Arm Bracket Raceway 4” Square DATE SUBMITTAL
40" Length NoTEs:
fr CONTRACTOR TO INSTALL WEATHERPROOF WRAP AT ALL
‘conoUMT FoR power, GoNNECTORS, WRAP TO BE APPROVED BY CRONM CASTLE,
Fiber 6 GrOUNDING. 2, COLOR CODE CORK CABLES PER CRONN CASTLE WIRING
Sacra
© (ec RATATAT DATE
SAL ‘SAL ANSELMO a/17/2023
RADIO / ANTENNA MOUNTING DETAIL SCALE: NTS | 18
sic SOE
je | veRPHON | DNE [er REVISIONS
Ino] pare: cONMENT
TSSUEDFOR
_ _ 1 [o0rs2029| cousTmucTION
© [09/1 7/2023| CONSTRUCTION
ALUMINUM 15 [ose7:2023|166UED Fon REVIEW
” CHANNEL
wae TOTS 4 PROJECT NAME
PART NUMBER GOA CT RATED VCA2 SAN MATEO BRIDGE HEADEND
(32)3/8-16 SAB-RW4.40" SMART POLE
Grounding METER
Hugs HOHE, (CROWN NODE ID NUMBER
. O CA_SF_SANMATEO_210M2
SIDE-ARM (NYM SAB-RW4-40") SCALE: NTS | 11 ©
~ NODE ADDRESS
P.C, CONCRETE PAVEMENT 535 CLARK DA
rm ‘SAN MATEO, CA 94402
-W1.4 x W1.4 WWF NOTES:
MATCH EXISTING HUB NAME
4°MIN 41. ALL SIDEWALK SHALL BE CONSTRUCTED WITH CONCRETE WITH A MINIMUM COMPRESSIVE STRENGTH OF
4 4,500 PSI AT 14 DAYS. WOOD POLE: 2 BRACKET SAN MATEO HUB
4’ 2. PROVIDE 1/2" EXPANSION JOINTS AT 20’, MAXIMUM, SPACING AND FILLED WITH PREMOLDED BITUMINOUS
EXPANSION JOINT FILLER MATERIAL OR REDWOOD. EXPANSION JOINTS SHALL HAVE #4 DOWELS, LUBRICATED, KH JOB NUMBER IN HOUSE
18° LONG, AT 12° CENTERS, 6” FROM EDGE. opavmvay. Ee
3, PROVIDE 3/8" GROOVED CONTROL JOINTS AT 5’ CENTERS. KHOLE-46961 Ceckeo By: TOR
4, PROVIDE 1/2" BITUMINOUS EXPANSION JOINT FILLER MATERIAL WHERE WALK ABUTS EXISTING
IMPROVEMENTS AND AT ALL CHANGES IN GRADE (SHEET TITLE
5, USE 2484 REINFORCING BARS, 10 LONG OVER ALL UTILITY TRENCHES FOR NEW SIDEWALK AND CONNECTIONS SIDE VIEW CONSTRUCTION
TO EXISTING SIDEWALK. DETAILS
6, AT DRIVE APPROACHES, SIDEWALK PCC AND BASE THICKNESS SHALL MATCH THAT OF THE DRIVE.
NOTE: CONTRACTOR TO SUPPLY ADDITIONAL HARDWARE FOR ATTACHMENT
SUBGRADE-SCARIFIED AND COMPACTED NO. 53 STONE AS NEEDED. SHEET NUMBER: PAGE
TO AT LEAST 95% OF THE MODIFIED
PROCTOR MAXIMUM DRY DENSITY D1.1 5 OF7
CONCRETE SIDEWALK STANDARD ‘SCALE: NTS | 20] EQUIPMENT MOUNTING DETAIL SCALE: NTS | 8 PLOT SCALE: 1:1 @ 24x36", 1:2 @ 11°17"

522 of 682


--- page 523 ---
Notes: Wm CADNELD - SEE DETAL HELA
Fe ee er eres oun STALLATIONS, SEE Tr ALL COMMEGTORS MUST BE DOUBLE LUG. CROWN
2. MOUNT ANTENNA GROUND BUSS VERTICALLY 44 ecHanicAL CONNECTION CASTLE
BEHIND LOWER ANTENNA ARRAY
GROUND BAR -COPPER- SIZE AS NEEDED
UMA WIRELESS "JMA WEATHER PROTECTION SYSTEM" GRADE E ~~
GROUND RD - SEE DETAL 9.1 CROWN CASTLE
1, FOR 1/2" CONNECTIONS TO ANTENNA OR DEVICE cRownicasie
‘covren secu cnounourr ONE PARK PLAGE, STE. 200
2, FOR 1/2" CONNECTIONS TO ANTENNA OR DEVICE USING ae CCADWELD GROUNDING WRE ‘GROUND 3 yp.ronen oamoua.savenen sour | DEbcnsaee
TE ‘TOROD TvP.GT CR GA) BUSS BAR RECORD DRAWINGS ISSUE DATE:
\WPS-DF-CUTTER GRouNO CONDUCTORS #2 ‘AND GROUND ROO -1F NEEDED barvera025
He] SOup sane trnnco Coveen puasTic LEG. OscoMvEcT ‘To ACHIEVE ReouIReD
8. FORWPS-N, 1/2! NM CONNECTOR TO PORT f pore INsuLATOR HesTiNG RESULTS OF 5 Ohms
=e S18DIA, x8 COPPER CLAD
4, FORWPS-DRA, MALE TO PORT ce : SBDIA. XS COPPER LAD
" ‘S)8DIA, LONG MIN. @ #0" OC “8
5. FOR 1/4" CONNECTIONS TO ANTENNA OR DEVICE SBD LONG MING 8-0 OC El
CONNECTION (34018. 10
Lone ACCEPTABLE, 8
SERARATION. AT CAN BE ANTENG\A GROUND BUSS 3 x6'x #8s0u #2 souD TiNED
LUSEDINUEY OF RODIF RED {ia THIex. THNED COPPER BUSS
Tire: " CONTRA Poe —MAsTER BUS BAR
DUE TOSOL TPE ‘BAR PROVIDED BY CONTRACTOR
‘COAX WATERPROOFING -FUSION TAPE TYPE SCALE: NTS| 5 | COAXWATERPROOFING - FUSION TAPE TYPE SCALE: NTS | @ | GROUND BUS BAR DETAIL SCALE: NTS | 13 | EQUIPMENT GROUNDING SCHEMATIC DETAIL SCALE: NTS | 17
TL ELECTRICAL WORK SHALL BE PERFORMED WY AGOGROANGE WITH THE NATIONAL
ELECTRIC CODE AND ALL OTHER APPUCABLELOCAL CODES. 1 CADMELD- SEE DETAL 1Et.1
1 sree 2 CONTRACTOR SHALL OBTAIN ALL PERMITS, PAY ALL PERMIT FEES, AND SCHEDULE ALL 12 MECHANICAL CONNECTION
suet sua REQUIRED INSPECTIONS. CONTRACTOR SHALL OBTAN LOCAL POWER COLIPANY POWER CONSUMPTION TABLE
APPROVAL AND COORODIATE SERVICE ENTRANGE RECURENENTS. [ oxcunoaan. copper. size asneeDeD
caounoiic 2. Getmacron skit vn sence LocAIONS Mt CONTACT PROJECT MANAGER ay) WIRE
penovecasie Ey Soom, ee ce ire oi “anon we NATUR DescemD ONT DESCRIPTION | QTY | (VA)| se 1 exon non. seeverat 9611
EB [SRAvdNG, AND 4 LL ENG NDENTAL TO COMPLETING AND PRESENTING THIS
PROJECT AS FULLY OPERATIONAL, ALL ELECTRICAL EMS SHALL BE Us. APPROVED OF| 1 SIREETMAGRO A705 7 | 500 | ie PREPARED BY.
ecRouno sreo. i
Ld LC ia 5. CONDUCTORS SHALL BE RVSTALLEDIN SCHEDULE 40 CONDUTT (UNDERGROUND) AND #2
t Peeaaiaaereniireanechey 2 | stmeetwacno eros | + | 500 imley»Horn
©, BROMBE 7 Of 21/2 SCHEOULE 40 PYG UNDERGROUND CONDUIT WITH PULL WIRE 3 | sTREETWACRO 6705 1_| 500 [#12
BETHEEN ELECTRICAL UTILITY DEMARCATION POINT AND APS JUNCTION BOX.
CONTRACTOR shit GETERHINe REGURED NUMBER ANO LOCATION OF JINCTION TOTAL NON-CONTINUOUS __|1500.
Soxes PER UTLITY STANDSROS. 2875 EMBASSY PARKWAY. SUITE 200
7, USE SCHEDULE 49 PVG CONDUIT AND APPROPRIATE FITTINGS TO ENTER NR LORD TOTAL KVA 500 ‘AKRON, 0144333,
Center. c Hone: 16) 08778
EOATRACTOR TO NOTEY ALL APPROPRIATE PARTIES PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION AND wii KBE
‘SHALL PROMDE AND MAINTAIN A TRAFFIC CONTROL PLAN PER NDOT REQUIREMENTS, TOTAL AMPS @ 120V 12.50 :KPALEY-HORN.COM
euecrnca |», CovTaacTon TOLOGATE AL UTILITIES N PROJECT AREA PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION
TAPE OVER ‘THROUGH BLUE STAKE. SINGLE PHASE
7 HiasricTaze |10. VERIFY DEPTH OF EXSTING UTLITY CROSSING POINTS VIA APPROVED POTHOLING
PUTTY TAPE i METHODS No NOTE ON FLAN SETS Fo ne SULT close GUT, TWO WIRE THIS BAAWING 6 GOFYAGHTED AND IS
i vs HOC eeA Loci oF A REPALES UES CH ASSURED CRANE SE ao Be pare
IGS, PRCOUGED SOLELY FOR USE BY THE
12, IFEMISTING IRRIGATION LIVES ARE ENCOUNTERED, CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY Came aN RS APeILeS,
‘OWNER PRIOR TO DISTURBING OR MODIFYING. FUSE SIZE 154 REPRODUCTION OR USE OF THIS DRAWING
13, CONTRACTOR SHALL HOT RELOCATE PROPOSED EQUIPUENT OR POLE LOCATIONS Hee ae recent Commences
WWiTHOUT weit Ten APPROVAL PROM CROWA CASTLE AND PROJECT ENGINEERS aoe een oatioe ae Wale
14, MATERIAL SUBSTITUTIONS ARE SUBJECT TO GROWN CASTLE AND ENGINEERING Heal tr
REVIEW PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION. PROPOSED, Z
RADIOIANTEN
COAXIAL CABLE GROUNDING SCALE: N.S,| 2 [ELECTRICAL NOTES SCALE: NONE| 6 | POWER CONSUMPTION TABLE SCALE NTS | 14 RELEASE
DATE SUBMITTAL
PART 2- EXECUTION
i execuTION INSULATED #8
‘STRANDED
'A. PROWDE () MAB GROUND FROM THE AITENIIAMOUNTRIGBRACKET AT THE TOP OF THE POLE, TO THE LIAN GROUND BUS BAR (MGB) LOCATION DEFRLED BELOW), MAN
VERTICAL GROUND SHALL GONGIST OF A# 2SOLID BARE COPPER CABLE, SAD GROUND SHALL BE PROTETED BY A PVG U-GUAAD TO NiE TOP OF THE POLE AND STAPLED
EVERY 24° NITH CORROSION RESISTANT (IPPED GALVANIZED) STAPLES.
‘8. 2SOLID BARE COPPER CABLES HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE TO THEFT AND MAY BE ABIT EXCESSIVE TO RUN TO TOP OF POLE. #2TIN COSTEDIS RECOMMENDED BY OPS. AS TS
‘CHEAPER Ail LESS URELY TO BE STOLEN. BUSS BARS HAY ALSO BE TM COATED TO MAKE THEM LESS SUSCEPTILE TO THEFT.
(C.PROVDE (1) MANN GROUND FROM THE WAN GROUND BUS BAR (THGS) {LOCATION DEFINED BELOW) TO AGROUND ROD AT THE POLE BASE. MAN GROUND VERTICAL SHALL
{Cousiot OF At 2 SOUD BARE COPPER CABLE. SAD GROUND SHALL BE PROTECTED BY APG U-GUARD TO THE BOTTOM OF THE POLE AND STAPLED EVERY 24 WITH
‘CORROSION RESISTANT (OFPED GALVANIZED) STAPLES. REVISIONS
1. GROUND ROD SHALL BE 8 I DEPTH KINI Allo COPPER CLAD.
GROUND ROD SHALL BE PLACED PER NEC CODE WITH REGARDS TO DEPTH AND DISTANCE FROM WOODPOLE. = #e sou Ino] pare COMMENT
F. GROUND ROD SHALL BE BURIED MiaKIUM| OF 20° BELOW GRADE. reemEsee
16. # ZGROUND SHALLBE ATTACHED OIRECTLYTO THE GROUND ROO WA CHO WELD. aster ous ean 1 [osrerzozs| SSUEDFOR
FR) ani GROUND VERTICAL SHALL 8E ATTACHED DIRECTLY TO A GROUND BUS BAR TMS) HOUNTED TO THE FACE OF THE UTILTY POLE. METHOD OF CONTACT SHALL BE 2 > oon 7202s ISSUED FOR
Hous SLOTTED LUG (BRON TO THE MAN GROUND BUS (11GB) ON THE LEFT OR TOP SOT DEPENDING ON THE OAENTATION OF THE TAB. [ONETAUGTION
: = Han GROUND VERTICAL TO THE ANTENNA MOUNTING BRACKET SHALL BE ATTACHED OIRECTLY TO THE AVTENIIA BRACKET VIAASELF-TAPPRNG BOLT OR SCREW. A =x Jooo72028]16sUED FOR REVIEW
E iB 8 WASHER MUST BE ADDED To THE THAU BOLT OR SCAEW TO AVOID DAMAGE TO THE LUG WHILE HANTANNG A SECURE BOND.
é 3 3 4. TGB SHALL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE CHARLES CABINET BELOM THE RAH STANDOFF RECTLY TO THE WOGD POLE STAUCTURE. | _ se rnaieo sou
g 5 § KC AlLPouE nounteD Dewees, peLUbRG BUT NOT ITED TO: (ANTENNALMOUNTS AND ATTENDIAS, MOUNTING BRACKETS, CABINETS) SHALL BE CONNECTED TO THE
z g z ‘Tue Witt #8 COPPER STRANDED GABLE WV COATED AND GAEEN COLOR, PROJECT NAME
5 5 = L,-AULPOLE nounreb DEMGES, BCLUDAG UT NOT ITED To: (TENA MOUNTS AND ANTENNAS, MOUNTING BRACKETS, CABINETS) SHALL BE CONNECTED TO THE }
5 5 5 ‘G8 USHG COMPRESSION TYPE, 2HOLE CONNECTOR LUGS, VCA2 SAN MATEO BRIDGE HEADEND
5 5 5 1. CONNECTOR LUGS ilUST ATTACH TO THE BUS BAR WITH THO HOLES FACINGUP AID OUT WITH THE BOLT HEADS ARE ON THE BACK SIDE OF THE BUS BAA, SIDA x8 COPPER
2 z z 2. STACKING OF CONNECTOR LUGS Is PROHIBITED. LAO STEEL GROUND
= - < 5 PLACEMENT OF COIINECTOR LUGS ON FRONT Al REAR FACE OF GROUNDING BAR Is PERMATTED. ROD AND TesTWELL, GRown NODE 1D NUMBER
From {Any loDFIcaTions To THE CONNECTOR LUGSIs PROMISED INGLONG GUT NOT LIMITED To GRINDING, CUTTING OF SENDING. TYP. SEE DETAIL at ‘own
Power 5. Conwecton (UGS iusT 8 PLACED WITH EVEN SPACDIG AND MUST NOT COME IV CONTACT WITH ANOTHER CONNECTOR LUG. Ths SHEET =
Source €. SLOTTED SIDE OF THE CONNECTOR LUG SHOULD BE PLACED ON THE SLOTTED SIDE OF THE BUS BAR, CA_SF_SANMATEO_210M2
mm 7. AlL CONNECTOR LUGS SHALL HAVE TWO (@ CONPRESSIONS PEA LUG.
8, ALL CONNECTOR LUGS MUST HAVE NO-OX APPLIED TO ANY SIDES WHICH CONTACT ANOTHER METAL TO RETARD OXIDATION INCLUDING AND ESPECIALLY THE EQUIPMENT GROUNDING SCHEMATIC DETAIL SCALE: NTS | 19
onoucTOR N THE COMPRESSION END.
8. AIL CONNECTOR LUGS HUST 2€ PROPEALY SEALED FROM WEATHER WITH HEAT SHRINK.
4 ALL CONNECTOR LUGS MUST BE ATTACHED USING 2° HAROWARE X2PER EACH LUG ANDIN THE FOLLOWDNG MANNER, NODE ADDRESS
coast nave swan pou ‘4 FLAT WASHER ON THE BACKSIDE OF THE LUG 535 CLARK DA
cnet ieoauces 8. BOLT THRU THE LUGHOLE FAGNG OUTWARD,
in Ware. sanv, conn) ———] FLAT WASHER ON THE FRONT SIDE OF THE LUG. ‘SAN MATEO, CA 94402
Sihntarosed auase 4. LOCK WASHER ON THE FRONT SIDE OF THE FLAT WASHER
REDUCERS ASHIECESSARY ©) NUTON THE 60UT, TUANED TO “THREE THREADS SHOMMIG AT wAxiMUW TORQUE” HUB NAME
¢ ALLMUTS on conivecTon 60.7 MUST 8€ TIGHTENED SO THAT THE LOCK WASHERS
AE COMPLETELY ConPRESSED. SAN MATEO HUB
M. NO MECHANICAL CONNECTIONS ARE ACCEPTABLE EXCEPTIN THE EVENT OF MECHAMICAL FITTINGS BEING AINTEGRAL PART OF THE PRODUCT FROM THE FACTORY.
‘CHAALES CABINET # & GROUND LUGS ON EACH SDE OF THE CABINET.
EXCESS WELDS ON CADWELDS MUST 8 GAOUND OFF TO A SAFE TAPER, kn yoo numeen | [Iw House
ALLEXPOSED METALLIC SURFAGES LUST BE SPRAYED WIT A PROTECTIVE COATING SUCH AS 2NC-T. oRAWev ES
ALLEMTWIGS EXPOSED TO ENVAGNNENT MUST BE SEALED (TH SHANK WRAP, KHCLE-46961
{AZ AWE cORPERSTRANDED THN CHECKED BY: TOR
{aja corrensreanaonDUND 1, E9POSED SHBIERS" CONDUCTORS ARE PROHEITED IF N EXCESS OF 1/16TH OF AN HICH,
Pomomcur ‘SHEET TITLE
se acoro svar re opocieraen LECTRICAL DETAILS
° Su TesTING
|A. SOfMS To GROUND Is REQUIRED FOR ACCEPTANCE. IF 6 HUIS CAINOT BE NET WITH ABOVE REQUIRELIENTS, ADDITIONAL GROUND RODS WiLL BE ADDED TO THE FIELD
Un Ons Ts ACHIEVED.
s200cuuEHTaTION aneernumpen] [Pace
‘A. PHOTOS OF THE TESTS ARE REQUIRED AS WELL AS TEST RESULTS IN FORUAL DOCUMENT FORUIAT. SUBMIT RESULT OF TEST TO CC CONSTRUCTION MALIAGER PRIOR TO
FAL WALKTHROUGH, SUBMIT AUL PHOTOS AllD TESTS WITH CLOSEOUT PACKAGE PER SECTION 017700 ~ CLOSEOUT PROCEDURE'S ANO REQUIRED DOCUMENTS D1.2 6 OF7
(ONE-LINE DIAGRAM SCALE: NTS| 4 | GROUNDING SPECIFICATIONS SOALE: NTS | 12 PLOTECALE: 14 G28, 12 01h

{5\/n_aacn\ee\Som Cat. Sn af\VOAE\SHC~ San at 210-SATD 210K? - Cntrton rn WC\CA SF SONATE 2102.2 Rn 2005-09-17

Sie" ae Seo

523 of 682


--- page 524 ---
‘TRANSFORMER-RATED SMARTPOLE

<> (METER DISCONNECT BOX EEY

[Issue sowed

1 Spr etctensemerarmre reno

DIMENSIONS: 4.4" x 8,7" x 21.5"
WEIGHT: 40.0 LBS
VOLUME: 0.48 CF

Streetmacro 6705

DUBLIN, CA 88568
‘RECORD DRAWINGS ISSUE DATE:
e/te72003

Exp. 08/01/24

Kimley»Horn

23878 ENEASSY PARKWAY, SUITE 200
‘AKRON, OH 44333
PHONE: (26) 808-7778
‘WWW KIULEY-HORN.COM

DIMENSIONS: 5.9" x 7.9" x 14.4"
WEIGHT: 31.0 LBS
VOLUME: 0.39 CF

‘THIS DRAWING IS COPYRIGHTED AND IS,
‘THE SOLE PROPERTY OF THE OWNER, ITIS

{5\/n_aacm\ee\Som CaS Caf\VOAE\SAC~ San Mato 210-SHUATE 210K? - Cntrton rn DWE\OA SF SIMATED. 2102.2 Ri 2005-09-17

‘Siena See

PERNIGGION OF THE OWNER,

METER SPEC. (TESCO - CAT. 703) cae: NTS] 14] | | SHROUD ADAPTER PLATE (AT-PTA-MK217) SCALE: NTS ANTENNA / RADIO SPEC (ERICSSON - STREETMACRO 6705) scale: NTS] 10} | [Retease
DATE SUBMITTAL
£180
EuPry: APPROX 81 5S
WITH EQUIPMENT: APPROX. 194 LBS. REVISIONS,
Ino] pare COMMENT
* [poraiaoas| ConrmveTiON
0 osr7i20a5| SSnsTmueTION
’5_[oo1072020|16sUED FOR REVIEW
DEPTH | WIDTH | HEIGHT | VOLUME TOTAL PROJECT NAME
MANUFACTURER |MODEL (IN) (IN) (iN) (cF) QUANTITY | OL UME (cr) , \VCA2 SAN MATEO BRIDGE HEADEND.
ERICSSON STREETMACRO 6705 5.9 79 14.4 0.39 3 o*
NYM SAB-RW4-40" 40.0 4.4 10.0 1.01 1 1.01 ‘GROWN NODE ID NUMBER
TESCO, CAT. 703 4.4 8.7 21.5 0.48 1 0.48 CA_SF_SANMATEO_210M2
CHARLES ISHRDS-2818 18.0 N/A 28.3 4.17 1 4.17 ms
N/A ALUMINUM CHANNEL| 2.0 4.0 20.0 0.09 1 0.09 NODE ADDRESS
CHARLES AT-PTA-MK217 10.0 N/A 0.5 0.02 1 0.02 535 CLARK DA
SUM 5.77 — , ‘SAN MATEO, CA 94402
*STREETMACRO 6705 ANTENNAS ARE WITHIN CONFINES OF CANISTER, VOLUME NOT COUNTED TOWARDS TOTAL. HUB NAME
SAN MATEO HUB
ikHvos womBen | [INHOUSE
KHCLE-46961  ORAWNEY. Eis.
(129 stestoTs CHECKED BY: TOR
‘ON 8.5625 B.C.D. oneer ane
QUIPMENT
SPECIFICATIONS
sneeTnumeen] [PAGE
D1.4 7 OF7

EQUIPMENT INVENTORY TABLE

SCALE: NTS| 12] || ANTENNA CANISTER (CHARLES SHRDS-2818) scate: NTs] @

PLOTSCALE: 151 @ 24306, 12 @ 11%"

524 of 682


--- page 525 ---
Photosimulations 
 
525 of 682

--- page 526 ---
CA_SF_SANMATEO_210M2 
535 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
PHOTO SIMULATION
View 1
EXISTING VIEW
CLOSE UP
526 of 682

--- page 527 ---
CA_SF_SANMATEO_210M2 
535 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
PHOTO SIMULATION
View 2
EXISTING VIEW
CLOSE UP
527 of 682

--- page 528 ---
1
2
CA_SF_SANMATEO_210M2 
535 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
PHOTO SIMULATION
Aerial View
528 of 682

--- page 529 ---
Notification Affidavits 
 
529 of 682

--- page 530 ---
13520 Scarsdale Way 
 
 
Office: (760) 295-3951 
 
 
   info@titleprois.com
San Diego, CA 92128 
 
 
Fax: (760) 295-4038 
 
 
   www.titleprois.com
DECLARATION OF SERVICE BY MAIL
COMPANY NAME: 
KIMLEY-HORN
CUSTOMER NAME: 
TAYLOR BLANFORD
COMPANY ADDRESS: 
1300 CLAY ST, STE 325, OAKLAND, CA 94612
SITE: 
  
 
SAN MATEO SITE 210M2
SITE ADDRESS:  
Near 535 CLARK DR, San Mateo, CA 94402
DECLARATION:
I, Sean Wilson, Of, Title Pro Information Systems, do hereby declare that on, OCTOBER 19TH, 2023, I served
by mail upon each
  OCCUPANT & OWNER WITHIN THE MAILING LIST PROVIDED BY THE CLIENT, of the 
above-designated premises/subject property area, by depositing in the United States Mail, with postage 
fully prepaid, copy of the Application Submitted for Wireless Permit, a copy of which is attached hereto, 
giving the name(s) of the notice giver, site address of the subject property where the business is to be 
conducted, addressed to the Owner AND/OR Occupant for each of the following addresses: (see attached 
sheet(s)). (Note: Depending on the noticing requirements, we may have removed Duplicate Property 
Owners, Owner/Occupants from applicable address lists to prevent multiple notification.)
I declare under the penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct.
Executed at San Diego, California, this 19TH, day of OCTOBER, 2023 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature  
530 of 682

--- page 531 ---
Application Submitted for Wireless Permit  
October 10, 2023. 
 
Applicant: 
Crown Castle  
 
Taylor Blanford  Permitting Agent 
 
1300 Clay Street, Suite 325, Oakland, CA 94612 
 
Taylor.Blanford@kimley-horn.com 
 
(510) 210-3221 
 
CC: northerncaliforniapubliccomments@crowncastle.com 
 
(925) 701-7210 
 
Dear Property Owner or Resident: 
 
Crown Castle has submitted a wireless permit application to the City of San Mateo Public Works Department for 
a small wireless facility to be located on an existing utility pole in the public right-of-way at the location below.
 
Location: 
Near 535 CLARK DR, San Mateo, CA 94402 
Pole ID:  
110072203 
 
-powered, compact device used to provide wireless cellular service. The 
application is currently under review by the Department of Public Works and a decision has not been made. San 
Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) requires applicants to send notification to all property owners and residents 
within 500 feet of the proposed project site after submitting an application to the City for review. 
 
Crown Castle will be the owner and operator of the proposed facility, but Verizon, the carrier customer, will be 
using this specific facility to increase the coverage and capacity for their wireless services. The location was 
identified as the least intrusive location that meets specific wireless network coverage needs.  
 
 
Location of Proposed Facility 
Photo Simulation of Proposed 
Facility 
Pursuant to US Code Title 47 section 332(c)(7), local governments may not regulate the placement, 
construction, and modification of wireless service facilities to the extent that such facilities comply with the 
Federal Communications 
 
531 of 682

--- page 532 ---
Concerns related to the safety of RF emissions should be directed to the FCC Office of Engineering and 
Technology located at 445 12th St SW, Washington, DC, 20554. The FCC may also be reached at 1 (888) 
CALL-FCC.
FCC rules do allow the City to adopt aesthetic design standards of their facilities. San Mateo has adopted 
municipal code (SMMC 17.10) and comprehensive design standards (2021 Design Standards, Application 
Requirements, Conditions of Approval for Wireless Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way) that establish a process 
and application requirements for wireless permits. More information on these requirements can be found on the 
Small Cell Infrastructure website:
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure
THIS IS A NOTICE THAT AN APPLICATION WAS SUBMITTED
Interested parties may submit comments regarding the project by contacting the City. Comments may be 
submitted within thirty (30) calendar days of this notice, October 10, 2023. For information on the equipment or 
technical aspects of this installation, contact the Applicant listed below.
Applicant Contact
Crown Castle 
Taylor Blanford 
Permitting Agent
1300 Clay Street, Suite 325, Oakland, CA 94612
Taylor.Blanford@kimley-horn.com
(510) 210-3221
City of San Mateo Contact
Public Works 
Permitting Division
330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403
pwencroachment@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7300
A Notice of Decision will be posted on the website when the Director of Public Works approves or denies an
application. If you are interested in receiving email notifications when decisions are posted online, sign up for 
email alerts on Decision notices or permit approvals at our website. The specific list you will want to sign up 
for is "Small Cell Infrastructure Updates."
Members of the public interested in receiving information on application decisions should sign up for notifications 
on the Small Cell Infrastructure website, as no additional noticing will be mailed. 
Sign up for alerts here -> https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4707/Email-Alerts-News
Once a decision has been posted, residents or property owners within 500 feet of the project site may file an
appeal in accordance with SMMC Section 17.10.070(g). The Notice of Decision will include information on how 
to file an appeal and appeal applications are available on the small cell infrastructure website. 
Appeals must be filed within five (5) calendar days following the Director's decision. The appeal shall be 
scheduled for hearing on the agenda for the next regular or special meeting of the Sustainability and
Infrastructure Commission, or otherwise within a time frame needed to comply with all applicable state or federal 
laws. The FCC does not allow appeals when based solely on the environmental effects from radio frequency 
emissions that are compliant with applicable FCC regulations and guidelines.
If the application is approved by the City of San Mateo, installation is anticipated to begin
 2023. 
532 of 682

--- page 533 ---
PROPERTY APN
RECIPIENT
ADDRESS
CITY
STATE ZIP CODE
31061050
THE OCCUPANT
421 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1131
31061040
THE OCCUPANT
425 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1131
32051090
THE OCCUPANT
426 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1009
31061180
THE OCCUPANT
428 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1130
31061190
THE OCCUPANT
432 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1130
32052140
THE OCCUPANT
432 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1132
31062060
THE OCCUPANT
433 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1129
31061030
THE OCCUPANT
435 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1131
32052150
THE OCCUPANT
437 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1008
32052150
THE OCCUPANT
437 CLARK DR APT A 
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1008
31061200
THE OCCUPANT
438 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1130
31061200
THE OCCUPANT
438 MIDWAY AVE UNIT B
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1130
31062050
THE OCCUPANT
439 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1129
31061020
THE OCCUPANT
439 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1131
31062260
THE OCCUPANT
442 HILLCREST RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1125
31061010
THE OCCUPANT
443 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1131
31062040
THE OCCUPANT
445 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1129
31062030
THE OCCUPANT
449 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1129
31061210
THE OCCUPANT
450 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1130
31062270
THE OCCUPANT
452 HILLCREST RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1125
31062280
THE OCCUPANT
454 HILLCREST RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1125
31061220
THE OCCUPANT
454 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1130
31062290
THE OCCUPANT
456 HILLCREST RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1125
31061230
THE OCCUPANT
460 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1130
31061240
THE OCCUPANT
464 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1130
31061250
THE OCCUPANT
468 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1130
31062020
THE OCCUPANT
469 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1129
31081010
THE OCCUPANT
488 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1163
31052250
THE OCCUPANT
493 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1117
31051110
THE OCCUPANT
500 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1045
32051100
THE OCCUPANT
500 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1053
31052260
THE OCCUPANT
501 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1046
31051100
THE OCCUPANT
505 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1052
31061300
THE OCCUPANT
509 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1044
31051120
THE OCCUPANT
512 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1045
31061290
THE OCCUPANT
515 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1044
31051090
THE OCCUPANT
515 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1052
31051130
THE OCCUPANT
516 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1045
31051140
THE OCCUPANT
520 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1045
32051110
THE OCCUPANT
520 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1053
31061280
THE OCCUPANT
521 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1044
31051080
THE OCCUPANT
523 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1052
31061270
THE OCCUPANT
525 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1044
31052270
THE OCCUPANT
525 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1046
32051120
THE OCCUPANT
526 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1053
31051150
THE OCCUPANT
528 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1045
31062300
THE OCCUPANT
528 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1047
31051220
THE OCCUPANT
529 WARREN RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1060
31051070
THE OCCUPANT
531 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1052
31051210
THE OCCUPANT
531 WARREN RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1060
31051200
THE OCCUPANT
533 WARREN RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1060
533 of 682

--- page 534 ---
31061260
THE OCCUPANT
535 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1044
31051060
THE OCCUPANT
537 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1052
31052100
THE OCCUPANT
539 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1046
31062010
THE OCCUPANT
540 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1063
31051050
THE OCCUPANT
547 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1052
31052090
THE OCCUPANT
549 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1046
31051160
THE OCCUPANT
550 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1063
31051170
THE OCCUPANT
554 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1063
31052080
THE OCCUPANT
555 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1046
31051040
THE OCCUPANT
555 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1052
31052070
THE OCCUPANT
565 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1046
31051180
THE OCCUPANT
570 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1063
31052060
THE OCCUPANT
575 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1046
31051190
THE OCCUPANT
580 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1063
31052230
THE OCCUPANT
585 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1046
31052240
THE OCCUPANT
635 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1048
31052150
THE OCCUPANT
735  BROMFIELD RD
HILLSBOROUGH
CA
94010-6619
31052130
THE OCCUPANT
745  BROMFIELD RD
HILLSBOROUGH
CA
94010-6619
31052120
THE OCCUPANT
747  BROMFIELD RD
HILLSBOROUGH
CA
94010-6619
31062290
ABUSHARKH JULIE
456 HILLCREST RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1125
31081010
BARULICH AARON R
488 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1163
31051140
BIANCHI ROLAND R & JUDY R TRS
520 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1045
31061180
BRUNI RICHARD D TRS
1472 BERNAL AVE
BURLINGAME
CA
94010-5560
31051190
BRYANT LAURA
580 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1063
31061200
CALLCOTT W HARDY TR
438 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1130
32051090
COHN MATTHEW PAUL TR
426 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1009
31061250
CONVIRS SUSAN L TR
PO BOX 117760
BURLINGAME
CA
94011-7760
31062020
DE LUCA STEVEN
469 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1129
31061260
DEASY DAVID J
535 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1044
31051210
DEMERA GARY SCOTT
531 WARREN RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94401
31051060
DITZLER TIMOTHY M TR
537 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1052
32051100
ETZBACH DONALD F TR
500 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1053
31052100
EVANS DAVID A
539 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1046
31052080
FERRARI H DANIEL
555 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1046
31052060
FIGUEROA ENRIQUE
575 EDGEWOOD ROAD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1046
31051110
FORBES DANIEL M
500 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1045
31061010
FUCILLA ROBERT LOUIS TR
443 OCCIDENTAL AVENUE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1131
31052070
GALLETTI MARCHENRI TR
617 CRESCENT AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1017
31051090
GOLD DARREN J
515 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1052
31062300
GRAF JAMES TR
528 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1047
31062260
JONSSON STANLEY C & Y M TRS
442 HILLCREST RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1125
31061050
KARIM TRUST
421 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1131
31062010
KLETTER JASON TR
540 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1063
31051130
KRISHNAN NATHAN V TR
516 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1045
31051080
KRUMINS ALEKS
523 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1052
31061190
LEWIS DORIAN G TR
432 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1130
31061290
LI LAURENCE TR
515 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1044
32052150
LINDERMAN ANDREE H TR ET AL
437 A CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1008
31061300
LITFIN PATRICIA A
509 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1044
31051120
MA SAMMY SHUN CHOW
512 CLARK DRIVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1045
31051050
MACY BRYANT KENT TR
547 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1052
31062270
MAHAFFEY KENNETH L
452 HILLCREST RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1125
534 of 682

--- page 535 ---
32051110
MANDEL MARK R TR
520 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1053
31062040
MARKSON MICHAEL E TR
445 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1129
31061270
NEELEY KAREN M TR
525 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1044
31061040
NESSIER STEPHEN J TR
425 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1131
31061210
POTOMAK LLC
435 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1131
31051180
PREZEAU RODNEY PHILIP TR
570 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1063
31051150
PRITCHARD DAVID W TR
528 CLARK DR
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1045
31062060
REGAN FRANK J TR
433 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1129
31062030
REHDER KARIN TR
449 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1129
31061280
ROMANO SAMUEL TR
116 ROLPH PK DR
CROCKETT
CA
94525-1421
31061230
SAN FELIPE KEITH B TR
460 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1130
31051040
SCIGLIANO ROMERO & KAREN
555 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1052
31052270
SEKELJ DARIO TR
525 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1046
32052140
SEMIEN KEVIN
432 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1132
31052090
SEVIER CONSTANCE M TR
549 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1046
31062050
SILVA ROBERT P TR
439 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1129
31051220
SOBOLIK DOUGLAS E TR
529 WARREN RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1060
31061020
STANGHELLINI JOHN F TR
439 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1131
31051070
STAR RONALD HARLAN TR
531 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1052
31061030
STEFANAC NIKOLA TR
435 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1131
31052260
STRAMBI MICHAEL W TR
501 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1046
31051170
STRNAD ALOIS J & E E TRS
554 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1063
31052230
SUMMERS TIMOTHY J TR
585 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1046
32051120
TAGUCHI MARK
526 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1053
31052250
TATEOSIAN DAVID CHARLES TR
493 EDGEWOOD ROAD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1117
31062280
TURK STEPHEN P
454 HILLCREST RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1125
31051160
VOLK JOHN D
550 EDGEWOOD RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1063
31061240
WADHAMS ANDREW W
464 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1130
31061220
WHITEHEAD LAURENCE D TR
454 MIDWAY AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1130
31051200
XU SONYA TR
533 WARREN RD
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1060
31051100
YU MANFRED TR
505 OCCIDENTAL AVE
SAN MATEO
CA
94402-1052
31052240
ZUBATY AARON TR
1145 CORTEZ AVE
BURLINGAME
CA
94010-4932
535 of 682

--- page 536 ---
Log of Comments
Name
Address
Comment
Date
Comment
Response
Date
Response
536 of 682

--- page 537 ---
STAPLES

* CROWN Bena acd
CASTLE Suite 300

Dublin, CA 94568

Application Submitted for Wireless Permit

October 10, 202:

Applicant wn Castle
Taylor Blanford — Permitting Agent
300 Clay Street, Suite 325, Oakland, CA 94612
Taylor.Blanford@kimley-horn.com
(510) 21

C: northerncaliforniapubliccomments@crowncastle.com
(925) 701-7210

Dear Property Owner or Resident:

S permit application to the Gity of San Mateo Public Works Department for
ed on an existing utility pole in the public right-of-way at the location below

Location Near 535 CLARK DR, San Mateo, GA 94402,
Pole ID: 110072203

mall wireless facility’ is a low-powered, compact device Used to provide wireless cellular service, The
rently under rks and a decision has not been made. San
plicants to send notification to all Property owners and residents
after submitting an application to the City for review.

the proposed facility, but Verizon, the carrier customer, will be
overage and capacity for their wireless services. The location was
© location that meets specific Wireless network coverage needs

Location of Proposed Facility Photo ‘Simulation of Proposed

Facili

local governments may not regulate the placement,
facilities to the extent that such facilties comply with the
) regulations concerning Radio Frequency (RF) emissions

Crown Castle
One Park Place
Suite 300

Dublin, CA 94568

ons should be directed to the FCC Office of Engineering and
shington, DC, 20854, The FCC may also be reached ati (888)

<ihetic design standards of their facilities. San Mateo has adopted

prevensive design standards (2021 Desian Standards, Apaic
reless Facilties in the Public Right-of-Way) t

» permits. More information on these requirement

hat establish a process
ts can be found on the

Cell-infrastructure
THAT AN APPLICATION WAS SUBMITTED

“ding the project by contacting the City. Comments may be
‘tne notice, October 10, 2023. For information on the equipment or
tact the Applicant listed below.

ity of San Mateo Contact
Public Works — Permi Division
330 W. 20" Avenue, San Mateo, CA. 94403

Pwencroachment@eityofsanmat
(650) 522-7300 Hie)

Ublic Works approves or denies an
atens when decisions are posted oniing, sign up for
| permit approvals aC Our Webslte, The specif Hatyor 1p want to sign up

‘17 information on application decisions sho
15 no additional noticing will be mai Ms 09 UP fo nottcatons

“omateo.ora/4707/Email-Alerts-News

“1s oF property owners within 500 feet
'0.070(Q). The Notice of Decis

OF the project site may file an
wailable on the small Cell infras

on will include informatie
structure website, Saw

an Mateo,

'nstallation is anticipated to begin Winter 2023



--- page 538 ---
pplication Submitt
Wireless Permit

elated to the safety o! !
located at 445 fain St SV

City to adopl O°

i 47,40) and com
jong of Apnioyst! |

Interested pert
submitted with
technical nape
ptact
Crown Castle
Taylor Bianford ~
4900 Clay Stroot, Su
Taylor Blanford@kimloy
(810) 210-9221

on the wel
ceiving

ro
os or pormit approvals at ©
Jaten

} information an applies
no additional noticld

rgiAZO7/Em

of oll
ot allow appeals when. bas:
npliant with applicable FEC
approved by thie Cily of San Mateo, installation is ant

res



--- page 539 ---
CROWN
we CASTLE

Application Submitted for Wireless Permit

Applicant:
Ta

Location of Prop.



--- page 540 ---
Prior Permits and Approvals 
 
540 of 682

--- page 541 ---
verizon’

One Verizon Way
Basking Ridge, NJ 07920

VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.
ASSISTANT SECRETARY’S CERTIFICATE
I, Brandon N. Egren, do hereby certify that I am a duly elected, qualified and acting Assistant
Secretary of Verizon Communications Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Verizon”), and as such I am

authorized to execute this certificate. In such capacity, I further certify that:

Verizon Wireless Network Procurement LP (“VZW Network”) is a Delaware limited
partnership and is indirectly wholly owned by Verizon.

Cellco Partnership (“Cellco”’) is a Delaware general partnership and is indirectly wholly
owned by Verizon.

Straight Path Spectrum, LLC (“Straight Path”) is a Delaware limited liability company
and is directly wholly owned by Verizon.

GTE Mobilnet of Califormia Limited Partnership (“GTEM of California”) is a California
limited partnership and is indirectly wholly owned by Verizon.

VZW Network, Cellco, Straight Path and GTEM of Califomia are affiliates of Verizon.

Dated: September 21, 2022

Brouccbo Eyre

Brandon N. Egren
Assistant Secretary

2904559

541 of 682


--- page 542 ---
Wireless Telecommunications Bureau
RADIO STATION AUTHORIZATION 
LICENSEE:
ATTN: LICENSING MANAGER
STRAIGHT PATH SPECTRUM, LLC
5055 NORTH POINT PKWY, NP2NE NETWORK ENGINEERING
ALPHARETTA, GA 30022
STRAIGHT PATH SPECTRUM, LLC
Waivers/Conditions:
Federal Communications Commission
FCC Registration Number (FRN): 0012576435
REFERENCE COPY
This is not an official FCC license. It is a record of public information contained in the FCC's licensing database on the date that this reference 
copy was generated. In cases where FCC rules require the presentation, posting, or display of an FCC license, this document may not be used 
in place of an official FCC license.
Call Sign
File Number
Radio Service
WRAZ876
 0008225993
UU - Upper Microwave Flexible Use 
Service
Grant Date
07-24-2018
Effective Date
07-24-2018
Expiration Date
08-10-2028
Print Date
07-25-2018
Market Number
BTA404
Channel Block
L1
Sub-Market Designator
3
Market Name
San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose
1st Build-out Date
2nd Build-out Date
06-01-2024
3rd Build-out Date
4th Build-out Date
Special Condition for AU/name change (6/4/2016): Grant of the request to update licensee name is conditioned on it not 
reflecting an assignment or transfer of control (see Rule 1.948); if an assignment or transfer occurred without proper 
notification or FCC approval, the grant is void and the station is licensed under the prior name. 
The authority granted herein is subject to any future applicable international frequency coordination agreements between the 
administrations of the United State and Canada.
Conditions:
Pursuant to §309(h) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. §309(h), this license is subject to the 
following conditions:  This license shall not vest in the licensee any right to operate the station nor any right in the use of the 
frequencies designated in the license beyond the term thereof nor in any other manner than authorized herein.  Neither the 
license nor the right granted thereunder shall be assigned or otherwise transferred in violation of the Communications Act of 
1934, as amended.  See 47 U.S.C. § 310(d).  This license is subject in terms to the right of use or control conferred by §706 of 
the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.  See 47 U.S.C. §606.
This license may not authorize operation throughout the entire geographic area or spectrum identified on the hardcopy version. 
To view the specific geographic area and spectrum authorized by this license, refer to the Spectrum and Market Area information 
under the Market Tab of the license record in the Universal Licensing System (ULS).  To view the license record, go to the ULS 
homepage at http://wireless.fcc.gov/uls/index.htm?job=home and select  License Search .  Follow the instructions on how to 
search for license information.
FCC 601-MB
August 2021
Page 1 of 2
542 of 682

--- page 543 ---
Page 2 of 2
Market
Market Name
Buildout Deadline
Buildout Notification
Status
700 MHz Relicensed Area Information:
FCC 601-MB
August 2021
Licensee Name: STRAIGHT PATH SPECTRUM, LLC
Call Sign: WRAZ876
File Number: 0008225993
Print Date: 07-25-2018
543 of 682

--- page 544 ---
Wireless Telecommunications Bureau
RADIO STATION AUTHORIZATION 
LICENSEE:
ATTN: LICENSING MANAGER
STRAIGHT PATH SPECTRUM, LLC
5055 NORTH POINT PKWY, NP2NE NETWORK ENGINEERING
ALPHARETTA, GA 30022
STRAIGHT PATH SPECTRUM, LLC
Waivers/Conditions:
Federal Communications Commission
FCC Registration Number (FRN): 0012576435
REFERENCE COPY
This is not an official FCC license. It is a record of public information contained in the FCC's licensing database on the date that this reference 
copy was generated. In cases where FCC rules require the presentation, posting, or display of an FCC license, this document may not be used 
in place of an official FCC license.
Call Sign
File Number
Radio Service
WRAZ877
 0008225878
UU - Upper Microwave Flexible Use 
Service
Grant Date
07-24-2018
Effective Date
07-24-2018
Expiration Date
08-10-2028
Print Date
07-25-2018
Market Number
BTA404
Channel Block
L2
Sub-Market Designator
3
Market Name
San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose
1st Build-out Date
2nd Build-out Date
06-01-2024
3rd Build-out Date
4th Build-out Date
Special Condition for AU/name change (6/4/2016): Grant of the request to update licensee name is conditioned on it not 
reflecting an assignment or transfer of control (see Rule 1.948); if an assignment or transfer occurred without proper 
notification or FCC approval, the grant is void and the station is licensed under the prior name. 
The authority granted herein is subject to any future applicable international frequency coordination agreements between the 
administrations of the United State and Canada.
Conditions:
Pursuant to §309(h) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. §309(h), this license is subject to the 
following conditions:  This license shall not vest in the licensee any right to operate the station nor any right in the use of the 
frequencies designated in the license beyond the term thereof nor in any other manner than authorized herein.  Neither the 
license nor the right granted thereunder shall be assigned or otherwise transferred in violation of the Communications Act of 
1934, as amended.  See 47 U.S.C. § 310(d).  This license is subject in terms to the right of use or control conferred by §706 of 
the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.  See 47 U.S.C. §606.
This license may not authorize operation throughout the entire geographic area or spectrum identified on the hardcopy version. 
To view the specific geographic area and spectrum authorized by this license, refer to the Spectrum and Market Area information 
under the Market Tab of the license record in the Universal Licensing System (ULS).  To view the license record, go to the ULS 
homepage at http://wireless.fcc.gov/uls/index.htm?job=home and select  License Search .  Follow the instructions on how to 
search for license information.
FCC 601-MB
August 2021
Page 1 of 2
544 of 682

--- page 545 ---
Page 2 of 2
Market
Market Name
Buildout Deadline
Buildout Notification
Status
700 MHz Relicensed Area Information:
FCC 601-MB
August 2021
Licensee Name: STRAIGHT PATH SPECTRUM, LLC
Call Sign: WRAZ877
File Number: 0008225878
Print Date: 07-25-2018
545 of 682

--- page 546 ---
06/21/2022
City of San Mateo
Tracy Scramaglia
Public Works
330 West 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
RE: FAA Filing for Wireless Facilities
Dear City of San Mateo Public Works,
Crown Castle’s proposed Small Wireless Communication Facilities do not require the completion and
filing of FAA Form 7460 due to this project not meeting the requirements of the Federal Aviation Code Title 14,
Chapter 1, Subchapter E, Part 77. Crown Castle’s proposed Small Wireless Communication Facilities do not meet
the FAA requirements for facilities that must file with the FAA which is listed below.
§ 77.9 — Any person/organization who intends to sponsor any of the following construction or
alterations must notify the Administrator of the FAA:
 
Any construction or alteration exceeding 200 ft above ground level
 
Any construction or alteration
o 
within 20,000 ft of a public use or military airport which exceeds a 100:1 surface from any point on
the runway of each airport with at least one runway more than 3,200 ft.
o 
within 10,000 ft of a public use or military airport which exceeds a 50:1 surface from any point on
the runway of each airport with its longest runway no more than 3,200 ft.
o 
within 5,000 ft of a public use heliport which exceeds a 25:1 surface
o 
Any highway, railroad or other traverse way whose prescribed adjusted height would exceed that
above noted standards
o 
When requested by the FAA
o 
Any construction or alteration located on a public use airport or heliport regardless of height or
location
     Furthermore, the FAA Code states that one does not need to file notice for construction or alteration of any
object that will be shielded by existing structures of a permanent and substantial nature or by natural terrain or
topographic features of equal or greater height and will be located in the congested area of a city, town, or
settlement where the shielded structure will not adversely affect safety in air navigation. All of Crown Castle’s
proposed locations meet this requirement.
546 of 682

--- page 547 ---
Sincerely,
Jason Camarena
Sr. Network Permitting Relations Specialist
1 Park Pl, Suite 300
Dublin, CA 94568
547 of 682

--- page 548 ---
The CPCN was granted in the name of NTC Network, LLC (“NTC”) by the California Public Utilities 
Commission’s (“CPUC”) Decision 99-06-083 on June 24, 1999 (Order starts on page 11 of the Decision 
PDF) and assigned the Utility Number U-6190-C. 
NTC merged into Freedom Telecommunications LLC (“Freedom” - Utility Number U-7110-C) by way of a 
pro forma consolidation.  NTC’s Utility Number was transferred to Freedom as the surviving entity.  The 
CPUC accepted NTC’s Advice Letter No. 6 dated May 12, 2014 and Freedom’s Advice Letter No. 4 dated 
May 12, 2014. 
Freedom was merged into Crown Castle Fiber LLC (“Crown Castle Fiber”) with Freedom’s CPCN and 
Utility Number (U-6910-U) being transferred to Crown Castle Fiber – Freedom’s Advice Letter No. 13 
accepted on November 24, 2018 
548 of 682

--- page 549 ---
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
505 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco CA 94102-3298
EDMUND G. BROWN JR.,
Freedom Telecommunications, Llc
IEC (Corp ID 6190)
Status of Advice Letter 13
As of November 27, 2018
Division Assigned:
Telecommunications
Date Filed:
10-26-2018
Date to Calendar:
10-31-2018
Authorizing Documents:
Disposition:
Effective Date:
Resolution Required:
No
Resolution Number:
None
Commission Meeting Date:
None
CPUC Contact Information:
AL Certificate Contact Information:
Pro Forma Consolidation including assumption of CPCN and Utility Number
Subject:
None
Accepted
11-24-2018
Tamar Finn
tamar.finn@morganlewis.com
202-739-3000
TD_PAL_COORDINATOR@cpuc.ca.gov
415-703-1565
549 of 682

--- page 550 ---
To:  Telecommunications Carrier Filing Advice Letter
From:  Telecommunications Division PAL Coordinator
Subject:  Your Advice Letter Filing
The Telecommunications Division of the California Public Utilities Commission has 
processed your recent Advice Letter (AL) filing and is returning an AL status certificate for 
your records.
The AL status certificate indicates:
       Advice Letter Number
       Name of Filer
       CPUC Corporate ID number of Filer
       Subject of Filing
       Date Filed
       Disposition of Filing (Accepted, Rejected, Withdrawn, etc.)
       Effective Date of Filing
       Other Miscellaneous Information (e.g., Resolution, if applicable, etc.)
The Telecommunications Division has made no changes to your copy of the Advice Letter 
Filing; please review your Advice Letter Filing with the information contained in the AL 
status certificate, and update your Advice Letter and tariff records accordingly.
All inquiries to the California Public Utilities Commission on the status of your Advice 
Letter Filing will be answered by Telecommunications Division staff based on the 
information contained in the Telecommunications Division's PAL database from which the 
AL status certificate is generated. If you have any questions on this matter please contact 
the:
       Telecommunications Division PAL Coordinator at (415) 703-1565, or by 
       e-mail to 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
505 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco CA 94102-3298
EDMUND G. BROWN JR.,
550 of 682

--- page 551 ---
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
505 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco CA 94102-3298
EDMUND G. BROWN JR.,
Ntc Network, Inc
IEC (Corp ID 6190)
Status of Advice Letter 6
As of August 11, 2014
Division Assigned:
Telecommunications
Date Filed:
05-13-2014
Date to Calendar:
05-16-2014
Authorizing Documents:
Disposition:
Effective Date:
Resolution Required:
No
Resolution Number:
None
Commission Meeting Date:
None
CPUC Contact Information:
AL Certificate Contact Information:
Pro Forma consilidation of NTC and Freedom Telecommunications, LLC (U-7110-C)
Subject:
None
Accepted
06-12-2014
Douglas Orvis
douglas.orvis@bingham.com
202-373-6000
TD_PAL_COORDINATOR@cpuc.ca.gov
415-703-1565
551 of 682

--- page 552 ---
To:  Telecommunications Carrier Filing Advice Letter
From:  Telecommunications Division PAL Coordinator
Subject:  Your Advice Letter Filing
The Telecommunications Division of the California Public Utilities Commission has 
processed your recent Advice Letter (AL) filing and is returning an AL status certificate 
for your records.
The AL status certificate indicates:
       Advice Letter Number
       Name of Filer
       CPUC Corporate ID number of Filer
       Subject of Filing
       Date Filed
       Disposition of Filing (Accepted, Rejected, Withdrawn, etc.)
       Effective Date of Filing
       Other Miscellaneous Information (e.g., Resolution, if applicable, etc.)
The Telecommunications Division has made no changes to your copy of the Advice 
Letter Filing; please review your Advice Letter Filing with the information contained in 
the AL status certificate, and update your Advice Letter and tariff records accordingly.
All inquiries to the California Public Utilities Commission on the status of your Advice 
Letter Filing will be answered by Telecommunications Division staff based on the 
information contained in the Telecommunications Division's PAL database from which 
the AL status certificate is generated. If you have any questions on this matter please 
contact the:
       Telecommunications Division PAL Coordinator at (415) 703-1565, or by 
       e-mail to 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
505 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco CA 94102-3298
EDMUND G. BROWN JR.,
552 of 682

--- page 553 ---
Filed By
Advice Letter Number 
Tier Date Filed
Subject
Protested
Date Closed
Effective Date
Days Open
Disposition
Freedom Telecommunications, Inc.
4
1
5/13/2014 Pro Forma Consilidation of Freedom and NTC Network, LLC (U-6190-C)
No
08/11/14
05/13/14
90
Accepted
553 of 682

--- page 554 ---
_ ALJ/TRP/avs | Mailed 6/24/99

Decision 99-06-083 June 24, 1999
BEFORE THE PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

Order Instituting Rulemaking on the wa
Commission’s Own Motion into Competition for Rulemaking 95-04-043 ©
Local Exchange Service. (Filed April 26, 1995)

MAL FILE COPY

-Investigation 95-04-044
Order Instituting Investigation on the (Filed April 26, 1995)
Commission’s Own Motion into Competition for (Petition Nos. 132, 133, 134,
Local Exchange Service. 135, 136, 137,138, 139
140, and 142)

OPINION

By this decision, we grant the petitions for certificates of public
convenience and necessity (CPCN) to operate as facilities-based competitive local
carriers (CLCs) and to offer resold local exchange services within the territories
of Pacific Bell (Pacific), GTE California Incorporated (GTEC), Roseville
Telephone Company (RTC), and Citizens Telephone Company (CTC), for those
petitioners as set forth in Appendix B of this decision, subject to the terms and
conditions included herein. We also grant petitioners’ requests for intrastate
interLocal Access and Transport Areas (interLATA) and intraLATA authority on |

a statewide basis as designated in Appendix B.
I. Background

We initially established rules for entry of facilities-based CLCs in Decision
(D.) 95-07-054. Under those procedures, we processed a group of candidates that
filed petitions for CPCNs by September 1, 1995, and granted authority effective
January 1, 1996, for qualifying CLCs to provide facilities-based competitive local

-1-

554 of 682


--- page 555 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

exchange service in the territories of Pacific and GTEC. We authorized CLCs
seeking to provide resale-based services to begin operations on March 1, 1996.
We further advised prospective entrants that any filings from nonqualifying
CLCs, and any filing for CLC operating authority made after September 1, 1995,
would be treated as standard applications and processed in the normal course of
the Commission's business.

By D.96-12-020, effective January 1, 1997, we instituted quarterly
processing cycles for granting CPCN authority for facilities-based CLCs in order
to streamline the approval process for these particular carriers. Since we had
been processing the environmental impact review required under the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) ona consolidated basis for groups of
qualifying facilities-based CLCs, we concluded in D.96-12-020 that it would be
more efficient and consistent to process other aspects of the CLC filings on a
consolidated basis, as well. Accordingly, we directed that any CLC filing on or
after January 1, 1997, for facilities-based CPCN authority was to make its filing in
the form of a petition to be docketed in Investigation (I.) 95-04-044 that would be
processed quarterly on a consolidated basis. CLCs seeking only resale authority
continued to file individual applications.

On September 24, 1997, we adopted D.97-09-115 in which we extended the
coverage of our adopted rules for local exchange competition to include the
service territories of California’s two midsized local exchange carriers (MSLECs),
RTC and CTC. In that decision, we also authorized candidates seeking CLC
CPCN authority within the MSLECs’ territories to immediately begin making
filings following the applicable entry rules previously adopted in D.95-07-054
and subsequent decisions. Specifically, requests for CLC CPCN authority for
facilities-based service were to be filed in the form of a petition docketed in

1.95-04-044, while resellers have sought authority through applications. In

-2-

555 of 682


--- page 556 ---
~

R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

D.98-01-055, we approved the first group of petitions for facilities-based CPCNs
to offer local exchange service within the MSLEC territories. |

_ Inthis decision, we approve CPCNs for those facilities-based CLCs which
filed petitions during the first quarter of 1999 and satisfied all applicable rules for
certification as established in Rulemaking (R.) 95-04-043. The Petitioners
identified in Appendix B will be authorized to begin offering service upon the
filing of tariffs and compliance with the terms and conditions set forth in this

order.
ll. CEQA Review

We have reviewed the petitions for compliance with CEQA. CEQA
requires the Commission to assess the potential environmental impact of a
project in order that adverse effects are avoided, alternatives are investigated,
and environmental quality is restored or enhanced to the fullest extent possible.
To achieve this objective, Rule 17.1 of the Commission's Rules requires the
proponent of any project subject to Commission approval to submit with the
petition for approval of such project a Proponent’s Environmental Assessment
(PEA). The PEA is used by the Commission to focus on any impacts of the
project which may be of concern, and prepare the Commission’s Initial Study to
determine whether the project needs a Negative Declaration or an Environmental
Impact Report (EIR). |

Based on its assessment of the facilities-based petitions and PEAs, the
Commission staff prepared a Negative Declaration and Initial Study generally
describing the facilities-based Petitioners’ projects and their potential
environmental effects. The Negative Declaration prepared by the Commission
staff is considered a Mitigated Negative Declaration (MND). This means that,

although the initial study identified potentially significant impacts, revisions

556 of 682



--- page 557 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs '

which mitigate the impacts to a less than significant level have been agreed to by
the Petitioners. (Pub. Res. Code § 21080(c)(2):)-

A. Results of the Negative Declaration

On April 29, 1999, the Negative Declaration and Initial Study were sent
to various city and county planning agencies, as well as public libraries
throughout the state for review and comment by May 28, 1999. The Commission
staff prepared a public notice which announced the preparation of the draft
negative declaration, the locations where it was available for review, and the
deadline for written comments. The public notice was advertised in newspapers
throughout the state. The draft Negative Declaration was also submitted to the
Governor's Office of Planning and Research where it was circulated to affected
State agencies for review and comment. | %

Public comments on the draft Negative Declaration were reviewed and
answered, as necessary. The Commission staff then finalized the MND covering
all facilities-based CLC petitions listed in Appendix B. The finalized MND

includes a list of mitigation measures with which the CLCs must comply as a

co

condition of their CPCN authority. The MND includes a Mitigation Monitoring
Plan to ensure that the mitigation measures are followed and implemented as
intended. A copy of the MND is attached to this decision as Apperdix D. We
hereby approve the MND as finalized by staff. Concurrently with our approval
of the MND, we grant the request of the Petitioners in Appendix B for CPCN

authority subject to the terms and conditions set forth in our order below.
B. Required Payment of CEQA Deposit
Commission Decision 97-04-046 stipulates that all petitioners for CLC
authority must submit with their filing an initial payment of $2000 to cover
CEQA costs. The $2000 payment is used to cover the Commission’s costs for
-4-

557 of 682


--- page 558 ---
w

R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

preparing and publishing the Mitigated Negative Declaration for each qualifying
petitioner, as required by CEQA law. As of the date of this order, the

_ Commission has received payment of the required $2000 deposit from each of

the CLCs, as identified in Appendix B.

ill. Review of CPCN Petitions

A. Overview
The CLC petitions have been reviewed for compliance with the
certification-and-entry rules (Rules) adopted in Appendices A and B of
D.95-07-054 and subsequent decisions in R.95-04-043/1.95-04-044. Consistent
with our goal of promoting a competitive market as rapidly as possible, we are
granting authority to all of the facilities-based CLCs that filed during the first
quarter of 1999 and met the Rules. The Rules are intended to protect the public

against unqualified or unscrupulous carriers, while also encouraging and easing

the entry of CLC providers to promote the rapid growth of competition.

Petitioners had to demonstrate that they possessed the requisite

~ managerial qualifications, technical competence, and financial resources to

provide facilities-based local exchange service. Petitioners were also required to
submit proposed tariffs which conform to the consumer protection rules set forth
in Appendix B of D.95-07-054. In response to a notice of tariff deficiencies, the
various petitioners submitted tariff corrections. Except for the outstanding
deficiencies noted in Appendix C, the petitioners’ proposed tariffs are found to
be satisfactory with no deficiencies noted.

As prescribed in Rule 4.B.(1), prospective facilities-based CLCs must
also show that they possess a minimum of $100,000 in cash or cash-equivalent
resources, as defined in the Rules. In.order to demonstrate that they possess the

requisite financial resources, petitioners submitted copies of recent financial

-5-

* 558 of 682


--- page 559 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

statements. Because the financial statements contain commercially sensitive
information, the petitioners filed motions for limited protective orders to restrict
the financial statements and related documents containing commercially
sensitive information from public disclosure pursuant to General Order

(GO) 66-C. We grant those motions as prescribed in our order below.

Based upon our review, we conclude that each of the facilities-based
Petitioners identified in Appendix B, has satisfactorily complied with our
certification requirements for entry, including the consumer protection rules set
forth in D.95-07-054, subject to correcting any tariff deficiencies in Appendix C,
payment of the required CEQA deposit, and satisfying the additional conditions
set forth in the ordering paragraphs below. Accordingly, we grant these
Petitioners authority to offer facilities-based and resold local exchange service
within the territories of Pacific and GTEC and, where requested, within the CTC
and RTC territories. We also grant the statewide inter- and intraLATA authority
as requested. |

Pursuant to D.97-09-115, CLC resale authority within the RTC and CTC
territories was authorized to become effective on or after April 1, 1998. As we
stated in D.97-09-115, until the time that tariffed wholesale discount rates are
adopted for RTC and CTC, individual CLCs certificated to resell local service
within the CTC/RTC territories may enter into negotiations with each of the
MSLECs to seek agreement on an interim wholesale discount rate. Disputes over
the terms of resale arrangements may be submitted to the Commission for
arbitration pursuant to the provisions of Section 252(b)(1) of the

Telecommunication Act of 1996 and Commission Resolution ALJ-174.

559 of 682


--- page 560 ---
-

w

R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

B. Motion of DSLnet

DSLnet Communications, LLC ("DSLnet”), attempted to file a petition
(# 142) for CLC local exchange authority on March 31, 1999, with the intention of
being included in the Commission’s quarterly “batch” review of such petitions
filed during the first quarter of 1999. However, DSLnet subsequently learned
that, due to certain confusion surrounding whether DSLnet’s Petition was
complete for purposes of the Commission’s review, the Commission did not
technically accept DSLnet’s petition until April 13, 1999. Asa result, it is now too

late for DSLnet’s Petition to be included in the Commission’s quarterly review

process for such petitions filed during the first quarter of 1999, at least to the

extent DSLnet seeks facilities-based authority.

Nonetheless, in order to allow DSLnet to initiate competitive
telecommunications service in California as soon as possible, DSLnet filed a
motion on May 4, 1999, asking the Commission to: (1) immediately consider the
portion of DSLnet’s Petition seeking authority to resell local exchange
telecommunications services, and (2) consider the portion of DSLnet’s Petition
seeking facilities-based authority in the Commission's quarterly review process
for Petitions filed during the second quarter of 1999.

No party has objected to the motion of DSLnet. We consider the
request of DSLnet for consideration of the resale portion of its petition in the
current quarterly review to be reasonable, under the circumstances and shall
grant it.

Due to the timing requirements relating to the Mitigated Negative
Declaration, DSLnet’s request for facilities-based authority cannot be considered
during the current quarter, but shall be deferred to the subsequent quarterly

review period.

560 of 682


--- page 561 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs
IV. Compliance With Section 311

In compliance with Pub. Util. Code Section 311 (g)(2), this is an
uncontested matter in which the decision grants the relief requested.
Accordingly, pursuant to Pub. Util. Code Section 311(g)(2), the otherwise

applicable 30-day period for public review and comment is being waived.

Findings of Fact

1. Nine petitioners filed requests during the first quarter of 1999 seeking a
CPCN to provide competitive local exchange services in the territories of various
' California incumbent local exchange carriers as set forth in Appendix B.

2. An additional petitioner, DSLnet attempted to file during the first quarter,
but the filing was not actually docketed until April 13, 1999. DSLnet .
subsequently filed an uncontested motion seeking to have its 1equest for CLC
resale authority to be considered as part of the first quarterly group of CLCs.

; 3. No protests to the CLC petitioners have been filed.

4. A hearing is not required.

5. By prior Commission decisions, we authorized competition in providing
local exchange telecommunications service within the service territories of
Pacific, GTEC, RTC, and CTC for carriers meeting specified criteria.

6. The Petitioners listed in Appendix B have demonstrated that each of them
has a minimum of $100,000 in cash or cash equivalent reasonably liquid and
readily available to meet its start-up expenses.

7. Petitioners’ technical experience is demonstrated by supporting
documentation which provides summary biographies of their key management
personnel.

8. Except as noted in Appendix C, Petitioners have each submitted a

complete draft of their initial tariff which complies with the requirements

-8-

561 of 682


--- page 562 ---
_ R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

established by the Commission, including prohibitions on unreasonable deposit
requirements. .

9. Commission D.97-04-046 stipulates that all petitioners for CLC authority
must submit with their filing an initial payment of $2,000 to cover the
Commission’s costs for preparing and publishing the Mitigated Negative
Declaration pursuant to CEQA. .

10. Each of the CLCs, as identified in Appendix B, has submitted the required
$2,000 CEQA deposit as of the date of this order.

11. By D.97-06-107, petitioners or applicants for CLC authority are exempt
from Rule 18(b).

12. Exemption from the provisions of Pub. Util. Code §§ 816-830 has been

granted to other nondominant carriers. (See, e.g., D.86-10-007 and D.88-12-076.)

13. The transfer or encumbrance of property of nondominant carriers has been
exempted from the requirements of Pub. Util. Code § 851 whenever such transfer

or encumbrance serves to secure debt. (See D.85-11-044.)
Conclusions of Law

1. Each of the Petitioners listed in Appendix B has the financial ability to
provide the proposed services, and has made a reasonable showing of technical
expertise in telecommunications.

2. Public convenience and necessity require the competitive local exchange
services to be offered by Petitioners subject to the terms, conditions, and
restrictions set forth below.

3. Each Petitioner is subject to:

a. The current 0.0% surcharge applicable to all intrastate
services except for those excluded by D.94-09-065, as
modified by D.95-02-050, to fund the Universal Lifeline
Telephone Service (P-ub. Util. Code § 879;

Resolution T-16245, December 3, 1998);

-9-

562 of 682



--- page 563 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

b. The current 0.192% surcharge applicable to all intrastate
services except for those excluded by D.94-09-065, as
modified by D.95-02-050, tc fund the California Relay
Service and Communications Devices Fund
(Pub. Util. Code § 2881; Resolution T-16234; D.98-12-073, ,
December 17, 1998);

. The user fee provided in Pub. Util. Code §§ 431-435, which is
0.11% of gross intrastate revenue for the 1998-1999 fiscal
year (Resolution M-4789);

. The current surcharge applicable to all intrastate services
except for those excluded by D.94-09-065, as modified by
D.95-02-050, to fund the California High Cost Fund-A
(Pub. Util. Code § 739.30; D.96-10-066, pp. 3-4, App. B,
Rule 1.C; Resolution T-16242 at 0.0% for 1999,

December 3, 1998);

. The current 3.8% surcharge applicable to all intrastate
services except for those excluded by D.94-09-065, as
modified by D.95-02-050, to fund the California High Cost _
Fund-B (D.96-10-066, p. 191, App. B, Rule 6.F., Resolution
T-16244, December 3, 1998); and,

. The current 0.05% surcharge applicable to all intrastate
services except for those excluded by D.94-09-065, as
modified by D.95-02-050, to fund the California Teleconnect
Fund (D.96-10-066, p. 88, App. B, Rule 8.G, Resolution
T-16165; August 1, 1998).

4. Petitioners should be exempted from Rule 18(b).
5. Petitioners should be exempted from Pub. Util. Code §§ 816-830.
6. Petitioners should be exempted from Pub. Util. Code § 851 when the

transfer or encumbrance serves to secure debt.

7. Each of the Petitioners must agree to, and is required to, carry out any

specific mitigation measures adopted in the Mitigated Negative Declaration

(MND), attached as Appendix D, in compliance with CEQA.

563 of 682


--- page 564 ---
_ R.95-04-043, I.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

8. With the incorporation of the specific mitigation measures in the final
MND, the Petitioners’ proposed projects will not have potentially significant
adverse environmental impacts. | .

9. The Petitioners should be granted CPCNs subject to the terms, conditions,
and restrictions set forth in the order below.

10. Any CLC which does not comply with our rules for local exchange
competition adopted in R.95-04-043 shall be subject to sanctions including, but

not limited to, revocation of its CLC certificate.

ORDER

IT IS ORDERED that:

1. A certificate of public convenience and necessity (CPCN), shall be granted
to each of the Petitioners listed in Appendix B (Petitioners) to permit each of
them to operate as a facilities-based provider of competitive local exchange
telecommunications services, as a reseller of competitive local exchange
telecommunications services within the service territories as noted in
Appendix B and, as a statewide nondominant interexchange carrier (NDIEC), as
noted in Appendix B, contingent on compliance with the terms identified in’
Appendix B and in the remainder of this order.

2. Each Petitioner shall file a written acceptance of the certificate granted in
this proceeding prior to commencing service. .

3. a. The Petitioners are authorized to file with this Commission tariff
schedules for the provision of competitive local exchange, intraLATA (Local |
Access Transport Area) toll and intrastate interLATA services, as applicable. The
Petitioners may not offer these services until tariffs are on file, and until any

applicable deficiencies as noted in Appendix C have been corrected. Petitioners’

-1l1-

564 of 682



--- page 565 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

initial filing shall be made in accordance with General Order (GO) 96-A,
excluding Secticns IV, V, and VI, and shall be effective not less than one day after
approval by the Telecommunications Division. .

b. The Petitioners are competitive local carriers (CLCs). The effectiveness
of each of their future tariffs is subject to the schedules set forth in Decision
(D.) 95-07-054, Appendix A, § 4E.

A. “E. CLCs shall be subject to the following tariff and
contract-filing, revision and service-pricing standards:

“(1) Uniform rate reductions for existing tariff services shall
become effective on five (5) working days’ notice to the
Commission. Customer notification is not required for rate _
decreases.

“(2) Uniform major rate increases for existing tariff services shall
become effective on thirty (30) days’ notice to the
Commission, and shall require bill inserts, or a message on
the bill itself, or first class mail notice to customers at least
30 days in advance of the pending rate increase.

“(3) Uniform minor rate increases, as defined in D.95-07-054,
shall become effective on not less than five (5) working
days’ notice to the Commission. Customer notification is

- not required for such minor rate increases.

“(4) Advice letter filing for new services and for all other types
of tariff revisions, except changes in text not affecting rates
or relocations of text in the tariff schedules, shall become
effective on forty (40) days’ notice to the Commission.

“(5) Advice letter filings revising the text or location of text
material which do not result in an increase in any rate or
charge shall become effective on not less than five (5) days’
notice to the Commission.

“(6) Contracts shall be subject to GO 96-A rules for NDIECs,
except interconnection contracts.

-12-

565 of 682



--- page 566 ---
. R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

“(7) CLCs shall file tariffs in accordance with Public Utilities
(Pub. Util.) Code Section 876.”

4. The Petitioners may deviate from the following provisions of GO 96-A:
(a) paragraph II.C.(1)(b), which requires consecutive sheet numbering and
prohibits the reuse of sheet numbers, and (b) paragraph II.C.(4), which requires
that “a separate sheet or series of sheets should be used for each rule.” Tariff
filings incorporating these deviations shall be subject to the approval of the
Commission’s Telecommunications Division. Tariff filings shall reflect all fees
and surcharges to which Petitioners are subject, as described in Conclusion of
Law 3. Petitioners are also exempt from GO 96-A Section II.G.(1) and (2) which
require service of advice letters on competing and adjacent utilities, unless such
utilities have specifically requested such service.

5. Each Petitioner shall file as part of its initial tariffs, after the effective date
of this order and consistent with Ordering Paragraph 3, a service area map.

6. Prior to initiating service, each Petitioner shall provide the Commission’s
Consumer Services Division with the Petitioner’s designated contact persons for
purposes of resolving consumer complaints and the corresponding telephone
numbers. This information shall be updated if the names or telephone numbers
change or at least annually.

7. Where applicable, each Petitioner shall notify this Commission in writing
of the date local exchange service is first rendered to the public within five days
after service begins. The same procedure shall be followed for the authorized
intraLATA and interLATA services, where applicable.

8. Each Petitioner shall keep its books and records in accordance with

generally accepted accounting principles.

-13-

566 of 682


--- page 567 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

9. Petitioners shall each file an annual report, in compliance with GO 104-A,
on a calendar-year basis using the information-request form developed by the
Commission Staff and contained in Appendix A.

10. Petitioners shall ensure that its employees comply with the provisions of
Pub. Util. Code § 2889.5 regarding solicitation of customers.

11. The certificate granted and the authority to render service under the rates,
charges, and rules authorized will expire if not exercised within 12 months after
the effective date of this order.

12. The corporate identification number assigned to each Petitioner, as set.
forth in Appendix B, shall be included in the caption of all original filings with
this Commission, and in the titles of other pleadings filed in existing cases.

13. Within 60 days of the effective date of this order, each Petitioner shall
comply with Pub. Util. Code § 708, Employee Identification Cards, reflecting its
authority, and notify the Director of the Telecommunications Division in writing
of its compliance. |

14. Each Petitioner is exempted from the provisions of Pub. Util. Code
§§ 816-830. |

15. Each Petitioner is exempted from Pub. Util. Code § 851 for the transfer or

encumbrance of property, whenever such transfer or encumbrance serves to
secure debt. |

16. If any Petitioner is 90 days or more late in filing an annual report or in
remitting the fees listed in Conclusion of Law 4, Telecommunications Division
shall prepare for Commission consideration a resolution that revokes that
Petitioner’s CPCN, unless that Petitioner has received written permission from

Telecommunications Division to file or remit late.

567 of 682


--- page 568 ---
_R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

17. The Final Mitigated Negative Declaration, including the Mitigation

Monitoring Plan, attached as Appendix D of this decision is hereby approved
‘and adopted. -

18. Each of the Petitioners listed in Appendix B shall comply with the
conditions and carry out the mitigation measures outlined in the adopted
Mitigated Negative Declaration.

19. Each of the Petitioners shall provide the Director of the Commission’s
Energy Division with reports on compliance with the conditions and
implementation of mitigation measures under the schedule outlined in the
Mitigated Negative Declaration.

20. Petitioners shall comply with the consumer protection rules set forth in
Appendix B of D.95-07-054.

21. Petitioners shall comply with the Commission’s rules for local exchange
competition in California that are set forth in Appendix C of D.95-12-056,
including the requirement that CLCs shall place customer deposits in a
protected, segregated, interest-bearing escrow account subject to Commission
oversight.

22. Petitioners shall comply with the customer notification and education
rules adopted in D.96-04-049 regarding the passage of calling party number.

23. Petitioners’ respective motions for a limited protective order keeping
designated documents containing financial and other operating information
confidential are granted. Such documents will remain under seal for one year
from today unless a petitioner makes a timely request for extension of
confidential treatment of its documents by filing a separate motion with good
cause shown. . |

24. The motion of DSLnet to have the resale portion of its CLC petition |

considered in the current quarterly cycle is granted.

-15-

568 of 682



--- page 569 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

25. The petitions listed in Appendix B are granted only as set forth above.

This order is effective today.
Dated June 24, 1999, at San Francisco, California.

RICHARD A. BILAS
. President
HENRY M. DUQUE
JOSIAH L. NEEPER
JOEL Z. HYATT
CARL W. WOOD
Commissioners

Certified as a True Copy
--fok the (Priginal

a

Linn, IP. Lt.

“TSS” EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, PISLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
; STATE OF CALIFORNIA

-16-

569 of 682



--- page 570 ---
_ &.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

APPENDIX A
Page 1 of 2

TO: ALL COMPETITIVE LOCAL CARRIERS AND INTEREXCHANGE
TELEPHONE UTILITIES

Article 5 of the Public Utilities Code grants authority to the California Public
Utilities Commission to require all public utilities doing business in California to
file reports as specified by the Commission on the utilities’ California operations.

A specific annual report form has not yet been prescribed for the California
interexchange telephone utilities. However, you are hereby directed to submit an
original and two copies of the information requested in Attachment A no later
than March 315 of the year following the calendar year for which the annual
report is submitted.

Address your report to:
California Public Utilities Commission
Auditing and Compliance Branch, Room 3251
505 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco, CA 94102-3298

Failure to file this information on time may result in a penalty as provided for in
§§ 2107 and 2108 of the Public Utilities Code.

If you have any question concerning this matter, please call (415) 703-1961.

570 of 682


--- page 571 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 2
Information Requested of California Competitive Local Carriers and Interexchange
Telephone Utilities.

To be filed with the California Public Utilities Commission, 505 Van Ness Avenue,
Room 3251, San Francisco, CA 94102-3298, no later than March 31st of the year
following the calendar year for which the annual report is submitted. _

1. Exact legal name and U # of reporting utility.

2. Address.

' 3. Name, title, address, and telephone number of the person to be contacted
concerning the reported information.

- Name and title of the officer having custody of the general books of account
and the address of the office where such books are kept.

. Type of organization (e.g., corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, etc.).
If incorporated, specify:
a. Date of filing articles of incorporation with the Secretary of State.
b. State in which incorporated.

- Commission decision number granting operating authority and the date of
that decision.

7. Date operations were begun.
8. Description of other business activities in which the utility is engaged.

. A list of all affiliated companies and their relationship to the utility. State if
affiliate is a:

a. Regulated public utility.
b. Publicly held corporation.

. Balance sheet as of December 31st of the year for which information is
submitted. .

. Income statement for California operations for the calendar year for which
information is submitted. .

(END OF APPENDIX A)

571 of 682


--- page 572 ---
_&.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

APPENDIX B
Page 1 of 1
LISTING OF PETITIONERS GRANTED CPCN AUTHORITY
Requested Authority
Granted ;
Statewide
Name of Petitioner Petition Utility Local Exchange! Inter /Intra-
No. U-No.  Facilities-based Resale LATA

1. Eagle Communications of 132. U-6182C X X

California, LLC
2. US Data Highway Corp.?, 133 U-6183C X
3. Seren Innovations, Inc. 2 133 U-6184C Xx X X
4. HTC Communications, LLC 2 135 U-6185C X Xx X
5. Network Plus, Inc. 136 U-6186C X Xx X
6. Campuslink Communications 137. ~U-6187C X X X

Systems, Inc. ?
7. XL Networks, Inc. 138 U-6188C Xx Xx Xx
8. Triad Communications 139 U-6189C Xx

Corporation.
9. 140 U-6190C 'X 4 X

10. DSLnet Communications, 142 U-6191C xX

~ LLC3

1 Unless otherwise indicated, the authorized local exchange service territory of each
CLC petitoner is limited to the ILEC service territories of Pacific, GTEC.

2 The authorized local exchange territory for this carrier encompasses the ILEC service
territories of Pacific, GTEC, RTC, and CTC.

3 The facilities-based portion of the DSLnet petition shall be considered during the next
quarterly review period.

572 of 682



--- page 573 ---
. &.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs®

APPENDIX C
_LIST OF CLC Tariff Deficiencies _
_ Page 1 of 4

Eagle Communications, Pet. 132

Eagle Communications was to file a supplement to its petition as
previously requested by the Telecommunications Staff to correct the many
deficiencies to its tariffs. To date, it has not filed a supplement to correct the
identified deficiencies. Eagle must file a revised set of tariffs that fully comply
_ with D.95-07-054, D.95-12-056, D.95-12-057, D.96-04-049. |

Network Plus — Pet. 136

Deficiencies in Network Plus’s Proposed Tariffs

1. On each tariff sheet, (1) replace the phrase above the top horizontal line
“Local Exchange Services” to “Competitive Local Carrier Tariff” and (2) adda
vertical line on both the left and right margins.

2. Sheet No. 3, Preliminary Statement, 1.1, last paragraph. Replace the phrase
“to resell local exchange telecommunications services within the State of
California” to “to provide facilities-based and resale local exchange services as a
competitive local carrier in the service areas of Pacific Bell, GTEC, Citizens and
Roseville Telephone Companies.”

3. Sheet No. 13, Rule 1, Definitions. Include the definitions adopted in
Decision 95-07-054 for: (1) Major Rate Increase, and (2) Minor Rate Increase.

4, Sheet No. 17, Rule 3, Customer Application for Service. Revise tariffs to
fully comply with the provisions of Rule 2, Appendix B of Decision 95-07-054,

(e.g., service initiation based on a written or oral agreement; confirmation letter

.573 of 682



--- page 574 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/ TRP /avst

APPENDIX C
LIST OF CLC Tariff Deficiencies
Page 2 of 4

5. briefly describing services, in case of an oral agreement; statement of
terms/conditions for all new customers, etc.). -

6. Sheet No. 18, Rule 5, Contracts and Agreements. Delete language re

effectivity on five days’ notice for ” subsequent completed contracts.” All

contracts shall be subject to the 40-day notice until revised by the Commission.

7. Sheet No. 19. (1) Rule 6, Special Information Required on Forms. Revise
tariff language to fully comply with the provisions of Rule 3 (A) and (B),
Appendix B of Decision 95-07-054. (2) Rule 7, Establishment and
Re-establishment of Credit. Include language on situations when deposits are
not required. (See Rule 4, Appendix B of Decision 95-07-054.)

8. Sheet No. 20. (1) Rule 8, Advance Payments. Revise tariff language to
indicate that advance payments shall be credited on the customer’s first bill.

(2) Deposits. Include language on the interest rate to be added to deposits.
(See Rule 5, Appendix B of Decision 95-07-054.)

9. Sheet No. 21, Rule 9, Notices. (1) Revise tariff to indicate that cancellation
of service by customers may be either verbal or written. (2) Include tariff
language on rates and rate revisions and information on notices of
discontinuance by a competitive local carrier. (See Rule 6, Appendix B of
Decision 95-07-054.)

10. Sheet No. 22, Rule 10, Cancellation of Service by Company. Revise tariff
to indicate that notice of discontinuance of service by a company for nonpayment
of bills shall be provided in writing by first class mail to the customer not less

than 7 calendar days prior to termination.

574 of 682


--- page 575 ---
2.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avst

APPENDIX C
LIST OF CLC Tariff Deficiencies
Page 3 of 4

11. Sheet No. 25, Rule 16, Rendering and Payment of Bills. Note that a

five-month back billing period for error files and one and one-half years

back billing period for fraud are applicable only to interexchange service

providers. Revise tariff accordingly. (See Decision 88-09-061.)

12. Sheet Nos. 27 through 31, Liability of the Company. Adopt either Pacific
Bell’s or GTEC’s limitation of liability. The limitation of liability of these
companies are appended to Decision 95-12-057.

13. Sheet 36, Rule 25, Additional Provisions, etc., Section D. Include language
to indicate that deposits will be refunded with interest within 30 days after
discontinuance of service or 12 months of service, whichever comes first.

14. Sheet 37, Rule 26, Additional Provisions, etc. Comply with the back billing
provisions of Decision 88-09-061 for local exchange service providers.

15. Sheet 68, Custom Calling Services. Briefly describe each feature. Delete
any reference to Caller ID service. This service can only be provided upon
compliance with the customer notification and education rules adopted in
Decision 96-04-049.

16. Sheet 72, Taxes and Surcharges. Update the applicable California

surcharges. The current surcharges are: (1) Reimbursement Fee - 0.11%;
(2) ULTS - 0.00%; (3) CHCF-A- 0.00%; (4) CHCF-B - 3.8%; (5) California Relay
Service & Communications Devices Fund - 0.192%; (6) California Teleconnect
Fund - 0.05%.

17. Include tariffs on: (1) Directories, (2) Non-published service,

(3) Demarcation points, (4) Pro-rating of bills, (5) Change of service provider,

575 of 682


--- page 576 ---
R.95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs*

APPENDIX C
LIST OF CLC Tariff Deficiencies
Page 4 of 4

18. (6) Blocking of 976/900 calls, (7) Access to 911 by residential customers
disconnected for nonpayment, (8) Switched access, (9) Number portability,
(10) Privacy, (11) Universal Lifeline Telephone Service (ULTS) rates and income
limitations, and (12) Sample forms. The forms may be filed with the company’s

initial tariff filing. (See Decision 95-07-054.)

NTC has to file a full set of tariffs in compliance with D.95-07-054, etc.

(END OF APPENDIX C)

576 of 682


--- page 577 ---
"  95-04-043, 1.95-04-044 ALJ/TRP/avs

APPENDIX D

577 of 682


--- page 578 ---
NEGATIVE DECLARATION (14)

Competitive Local Carriers' (CLCs)
Projects for Local Exchange Telecommunications Service throughout California.

The subject of this Negative Declaration are nine current petitions/applications for
authorization to provide facilities based local telephone services. (See Appendix B).

The California Public Utilities Commission is the lead agency in approving these petitioners’
intent to compete in the local exchange market. Additional approvals by other agencies may be
required depending upon the scope and type of construction proposed by the petitioner (e.g.
federal, ‘other state agencies, and ministerial permits by local agencies).

Because the subject projects of the nine current petitioners are similar, with some modifications,
to the projects proposed by the past petitioners, the Commission incorporates, in whole, Negative
Declaration 13 for these nine petitions/applications, and will refer to the incorporated documents
as “Negative Declaration 14” (Section 15150 of CEQA Guidelines). The public comment
period for the Draft Negative Declaration 14 begins on April 29, 1999 and expires on May
28, 1999. Comments should be addressed to: John Boccio, Project Manager, California Public
Utilities Commission, Energy Division, 505 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94102, Fax:
(415) 703-2200, E-Mail: jbx@cpuc.ca.gov. For further information call Mr. Boccio at (415)
703-2641.

BACKGROUND

The California Public Utilities Commission's Decision 95-07-054 enables telecommunications
companies to compete with local telephone companies in providing local exchange service.
Previous to this decision, local telephone service was monopolized by a single utility per service
territory. The Commission initially received 66 petitions from companies to provide competitive
local telephone service throughout areas presently served by Pacific Bell and GTE California.
The 66 petitioners included cable television companies, cellular (wireless) companies,' long-
distance service providers, local telephone service providers, and various other
telecommunication companies that specialize in transporting data.

Forty of the sixty-six petitions were for approval of facilities-based services, which means that
the petitioners proposed to use their own facilities in providing local telephone service. The
remaining 26 petitions were strictly for approval of resale-based services, meaning that telephone

| Wireless companies covered in the Negative Declarations adopted by the Commission for entry in the local
telephone market are also subject to Commission General Order (G.O. 159A). G.O. 159A delegates to local
governments the authority to issue discretionary permits for the approval of proposed sites for wireless facilities.
Commission adoption of the Negative Declarations is not intended to supersede or invalidate the requirements
contained in General Order 159A.

578 of 682


--- page 579 ---
service will be resold using another competitor's facilities. (Most of the facilities-based
petitioners offer resale-based services as well.) The 40 facilities-based petitions indicated that
physical modifications to existing facilities may be required, and construction of new facilities
was a possibility in the long-term. The 26 resale-based petitions were strictly financial and
billing arrangements that involved no construction and were therefore considered to be exempt
from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (Public Resources Code Sections 21000
et seq.).

The Commission issued a draft Negative Declaration for the initial 40 facilities-based petitioners
in October 1995. Comments on the draft Negative Declaration covered issues such as traffic
congestion, public safety, cumulative impacts, aesthetic impacts, and physical wear on streets.
These comments were addressed and the Negative Declaration was modified to some extent in
response to the comments. In December 1995, Commission Decision D.95-12-057 adopted a
final mitigated Negative Declaration finding that the proposed projects of the initial 40 facilities-
based petitioners would not have potentially significant environmental effects with specified
mitigation measures incorporated by the projects.

Following the adoption of D.95-12-057, the Commission received eight additional petitions for
facilities-based services. The eight petitioners included cable television companies, resale-based
providers approved by D.95-12-057, and other telecommunication companies. Following the
public comment period, the Commission made minor modifications to the first Negative
Declaration, and in September 1996, the Commission adopted the second Negative Declaration
for these eight companies (D.96-09-072). (This Negative Declaration is sometimes referred to as
“Negative Declaration II”). In January 1997, the Commission adopted a third Negative
Declaration for eight more facilities-based petitioners. “Negative Declaration III” is virtually the
same document as Negative Declaration II because the proposed projects of the eight petitioners
were no different from the projects proposed by the two groups of petitioners that preceded them.
Following the issuance of Negative Declaration III, ten subsequent Negative Declarations,
Negative Declaration IV (D.97-04-011), Negative Declaration V (D.97-06-100), Negative
Declaration VI (D.97-09-110), Negative Declaration VII (D97-12-084), Negative Declaration IX
(D.98-03-066), Negative Declaration X (D. 98-06-067), Negative Declaration 1 1 (D.98-09-66),
and Negative Declaration 12 (D.98-12-083) and Negative Declaration 13 (D.99-03-050) have
been adopted by the Commission in granting authority to provide facilities based local
telecommunication services under essentially the same circumstances. (Negative Declaration
VII] addressed telecommunication companies petitioning to provide services in the Roseville
Telephone Company and Citizens Telephone Company of California service areas only).
"Negative Declaration IV addressed nine petitioners, Negative Declaration V addressed six
petitioners, Negative Declaration VI addressed eight petitioners Negative Declaration VII
addressed five petitioners, Negative Declaration VIII addressed eleven petitioners, Negative
Declaration IX addressed eleven petitioners, Negative Declaration X addressed, two petitioners
and Negative Declaration |1 addressed eight petitioners and Negative Declaration 12 addressed
twelve petitioners.

579 of 682


--- page 580 ---
PROJECT DESCRIPTION

Following the adoption of Negative Declaration 13, the Commission received nine more
petitions/applications for facilities-based services. These petitioners are the subject of this
Negative Declaration. (See Appendix B for a list of the current facilities-based petitioners.)

Similar to the earlier petitioners, most of the current petitioners are initially targeting local
telephone service for areas where their telecommunications infrastructure is already established,
and therefore only minor construction is envisioned. Services provided will include but not be
limited to voice, data, video, internet and other telecommunications services. The petitioners
will need to make some modifications to their existing facilities; these modifications are minor in
nature, the most common being the installation of a switch that connects potential customers to
outside systems. Switch installation is necessary because customers receiving a particular type
of service may not have access to local telephone networks. For example, customers receiving
cable television service are presently unable to connect to local.telephone networks because of
the differences in modes of service. A switch installation by a cable television provider is one
step that makes the connection possible. Switch installation is considered a minor modification
because it typically involves a single installation within an existing central communication
facility or building.

Besides the minor modifications, some of the companies are planning to install their own fiber
optic cables to provide adequate service. Cables will be installed within existing utility
underground conduits or ducts, or attached to utility poles with existing overhead lines whenever
possible. Fiber optic cables are extremely thin, and existing conduits will likely be able to hold
multiple cables. However, if existing conduits or poles are unable to accommodate additional
cables, then new conduits or poles will need to be constructed by the petitioner. In this case, the
petitioners will construct within existing utility rights-of-way. There is also the possibility that
the petitioners may attempt to access other rights-of-way (such as roads) to construct additional
conduits. Extension of existing rights-of-way into undisturbed areas is not likely, but a
possibility. | , ;

The installation of fiber optic cables into underground conduits will vary in complexity
depending upon the conditions of the surrounding area. For example,-in urban, commercial
areas, utility conduits can be accessible with minimal groundbreaking and installation simply
requires stringing the cable through one end of the conduit and connecting it to the desired end.
In this case, major excavation of the right-of-way is unnecessary. However, there may also be
conditions where access to the conduit will require trenching and excavation.

Some of the petitioners have plans to construct service boxes or cabinets which contain batteries
for the provision of power or emergency power. The dimensions of the boxes vary, but basically
range from three to five feet in height. Depending upon the type of technology and facilities
operated by the petitioner, smaller service boxes (approximately 3 inches in height) would be
used for power supply and backup power. Those petitioners who have no plans to use such

3

580 of 682


--- page 581 ---
boxes already have capable power and backup power within their existing facilities. The
petitioners who will need such boxes, have committed to placing the boxes in existing buildings,
or in underground vaults. If conditions do not permit building or underground installation, the
petitioners would use small low-profile boxes that are landscaped and fenced.

While most of the petitioners will initially compete for customers in urban, commercial and
residential zones where telecommunication infrastructure is already in place, some petitioners
state their intention or right to compete on a state wide basis wherever competition is permitted.
However it is unclear at this time if all areas will be affected by the projects because many
petitioners are not specific where they intend to compete in the long-run.

ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION

An Initial Study was prepared to assess the projects’ potential effects on the environment, and the
respective significance of those effects. Based on the Initial Study, the CLCs' projects for
competitive local exchange service have the potential to cause significant adverse effects on the
environment in the area of Land Use and Planning, Geological Resources, Water, Air Quality,

- Transportation and Circulation, Hazards, Noise, Public Services, Aesthetic and Cultural
Resources. The projects will have less than a significant effect in other resource areas of the
checklist. It should be noted that Findings 2 through 10 are for those projects which require
work within existing utility rights-of-way for the purpose of modifying existing facilities or
installing new facilities. Finding | is applicable for work outside of the existing utility rights-of-
way.

In response to the Initial Study, the following specific measures should be incorporated into the -
projects to assure that they will not have any significant adverse effects on the environment. (See
Public Resources Code Section 21064.5.)

As a general matter, many of the mitigation measures rely on compliance with local standards
and the local ministerial permit process. Although local safety and aesthetic input is essential in
minimizing the impact of the petitioner's construction, local jurisdictions cannot impose
standards or permit requirements which would prevent petitioners from developing their service
territories, or otherwise interfere with the statewide interest in competitive telecommunication
service. Therefore, the petitioners’ required compliance with local permit requirements is subject
to this limitation.

The findings of the draft Negative Declaration were modified in response to comments filed
during the public comment period from Negative Declarations II and I V. Changes are marked by
italics.

1. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental effects for all
environmental factors if a proposed project extends beyond the utility right-of-way into
undisturbed areas or into other rights-of-way. ("Utility right-of-way" means any utility

4

581 of 682


--- page 582 ---
right-of-way, not limited to only telecommunication utility right-of-way.) For the most
part, the petitioners do not plan to conduct projects that are beyond the utility nght-of-
way. However, should this occur, the petitioner shall file a Petition to. Modify its
Certificate for Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN). An appropriate
environmental analysis of the impacts of these site specific activities shall be done.

2. The proposed projects will not have any significant effects on Population and
Housing, Biological Resources, Energy and Mineral Resources, and Recreation if the
proposed projects remain within existing utility right-of-way. There are no potential
environmental effects in these areas, or adequate measures are incorporated into the
projects to assure that significant effects will not occur.

3. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental effects on
Geological Resources because possible upgrades or installations to underground conduits
may induce erosion due to excavation, grading and fill. It is unclear as to how many
times underground conduits may be accessed by the petitioners, but it is reasonable to
assume that constant excavation by various providers could result in erosion in areas
where soil containment is particularly unstable.

In order to mitigate. any potential effects on geological resources, the petitioners shall
comply with all local design, construction and safety standards by obtaining all applicable
ministerial permits from the appropriate local agencies. In particular, erosion control
plans shall be developed and implemented for areas identified as particularly unstable or
susceptible to erosion. If more than one petitioner plans to excavate geologically
sensitive areas, coordination of their plans shall be necessary to minimize the number and
duration of disturbances.

4. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental effects on
Water Resources because possible upgrades or installation to underground conduits may
be in close proximity to underground or surface water sources. While the anticipated
construction will generally occur within existing utility rights-of-way, the projects have
the potential to impact nearby water sources if heavy excavation is required as the method
of access to the conduits. :

In order to mitigate any potential effects on water resources, the petitioners shall comply
with all local design, construction and safety standards. This will include consultation
with all appropriate local, state and federal water resource agencies for projects that are in
close proximity to water resources, underground or surface. The petitioners shall comply
with all applicable local, state and federal water resource regulations. Appropriate site
specific mitigation plans shall be developed by the petitioners if the projects impact water
quality, drainage, direction, flow or quantity. If there is more than one petitioner for a
particular area that requires excavation, coordination plans shall be required to minimize
the number and duration of disturbances.

5

582 of 682



--- page 583 ---
5. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental effects on Air
Quality because possible excavation efforts for underground conduits may result in
vehicle emissions and airborne dust for the immediate areas of impact. This is especially
foreseeable if more than one petitioner should attempt such work in the same locale.
While the impact will be temporary, the emissions and dust could exceed air quality
standards for the area.

The petitioners shall develop and implement appropriate dust control measures during

excavation as recommended by the applicable air quality management district. The

petitioners shall comply with al! applicable air quality standards as established by the

affected air quality management districts. If there is more than one petitioner for a

particular area that requires excavation, coordination plans shall be required to minimize
the number and duration of disturbances.

6. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental impacts on
Transportation and Circulation and Public Services because uncoordinated efforts by the
petitioners to install fiber optic cable could result in a cumulative impact of traffic
congestion, insufficient parking and hazards or barriers for pedestrians. This is
foreseeable if the competitors choose to compete in the same locality .and desire to install
their own cables. If the selected area is particularly dense with heavy vehicular or
pedestrian traffic, the impacts could be enormous without sufficient contro] and
coordination. Uncoordinated efforts may also adversely impact the quality and longevity
of public street maintenance because numerous excavation activity depreciates the life of
the surface pavement. Impacts from trenching activity may occur in utility rights-of-way
that contain other Public Services such as irrigation water lines.

The petitioners’ shall coordinate their efforts to install fiber optic cables or additional
conduits so that the number of encroachments to the utility rights-of-way are minimized.
These coordination efforts shall also include affected transportation and planning
agencies to coordinate other projects unrelated to the petitioners’ projects. For example,
review of a planning agency's Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) to identify impacted
street projects would be an expected part of the coordination effort by the petitioner.
Besides coordinating their efforts, the petitioners shall abide by all local construction,
maintenance and safety standards (and state standards, if applicable) by acquiring the
necessary ministerial permits from the appropriate local agency or CalTrans (if within a
State right-of-way). Examples of these permits are excavation, encroachment and
building permits. Appropriate construction start and end times, and dates if appropriate,

2 The petitioners discussed in this Negative Declaration shall coordinate with all CLCs including those listed in the
first Negative Declaration adopted by the Commission (D.95-12-057) and all CLCs in future Negative Declarations.
CLCs covered in the first Negative Declaration shall likewise be expected coordinate with those CLCs listed in this .
Negative Declaration or any subsequent one adopted by the Commission.

583 of 682


--- page 584 ---
shall be employed to avoid peak traffic periods and to minimize disruption, especially if
the petitioners’ work encroaches upon transportation rights-of-way. Petitioners shall
consult with local agencies on appropriate restoration of public service facilities that are
damaged by the construction and shall be responsible for such restoration.

7. The proposed projects could have potentially significant hazard-related effects because
uncoordinated construction efforts described above could potentially interfere with
emergency response or evacuation plans. There is also potential for an increase in
overhead lines and poles which carry hazard-related impacts.

The same mitigation plan as described in the previous section is applicable here as well,
and shall be augmented by notice to and consultation with emergency response or
evacuation agencies if the proposed project interferes with routes used for emergencies or
evacuations. The coordination efforts shall include provisions so that emergency or
evacuation plans are not hindered. If the projects result in an increase in overhead
communication lines, the petitioner shall obtain the necessary ministerial permits.to erect
the necessary poles to support the lines. The Commission shall include these facilities as
part of its overhead line regular inspections so that the requirements of G.O. 95 are met.

8. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental effects on
Noise because it is possible some projects may require excavation or trenching. Although
the effect is likely to be short-term, existing levels of noise could be exceeded.

If the petitioner requires excavation, trenching or other heavy construction activities
which would produce significant noise impacts, the petitioner shall abide by all
applicable local noise standards and shall inform surrounding property owners and
occupants (particularly school districts, hospitals and the residential neighborhoods) of
the day(s) when most construction noise would occur. Notice shall be given at least two
weeks in advance of the construction.

9. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental effects on
aesthetics because it is possible that additional lines on poles in utility rights-of-way
could become excessive for a particular area Aesthetic impacts may also occur in utility
rights-of-way that are landscaped. Moreover, there is potential for an increase in above
grade utility service boxes or cabinets which also carry aesthetic impacts.

Local aesthetic concerns shall be addressed by the petitioners for all facilities that are
above-ground, in particular all types of service boxes or cabinets. The local land use or
planning agency shall be consulted by the petitioner so that any site-specific aesthetic
impacts are assessed and properly mitigated. For example, this may include restoration
of the landscaped utility rights-of-way.

10. The proposed projects could have potentially significant environmental effects on

7

584 of 682


--- page 585 ---
cultural resources because situations involving additional trenching may result in
disturbing known or unanticipated archaeological or historical resources.

The petitioners shall conduct appropriate data research for known cultural resources in
the proposed project area, and avoid such resources in designing and constructing the
project. Should cultural resources be encountered during construction, all earthmoving
activity which would adversely impact such resources shall be halted or altered so as to
avoid such impacts, until the petitioner retains the service of a qualified archaeologist
who will do the appropriate examination and analysis. The archeologist shall consult
with appropriate federal, state and local agencies concerned with cultural resources, so
that any potential impacts upon cultural resources are assessed and properly avoided or
mitigated. The archeologist shall, in coordination with agencies, develop a plan for
avoiding or mitigating any potential impacts upon those resources encountered.

In summary, the Mitigation Measures recommended in this environmental determination are:

A) All Environmental Factors: if a proposed project extends beyond the utility right-of-
way into undisturbed areas or other right-of-way, the petitioner shall file a Petition to
Modify its Certificate for Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN). ("Utility right-of-
way" means any utility. right-of-way, not limited to only telecommunications utility right-
of-way.) An appropriate environniental analysis of the impacts of these site specific
activities shall be done.

If the projects remain within the utility right-of-way, the following Mitigation Measures are
Tecommended: .

B) General Cumulative Impacts: in the event that more than one petitioner seeks
modifications or additions to a particular locality, the petitioners shall coordinate their
plans with each other, and consult with affected local agencies so that any cumulative
effects on the environment are minimized. These coordination efforts shall reduce the
number and duration of disturbance to existing utility right-of-way. Regardless of the
number of petitioners for a particular locality, the petitioner shall consult with, and abide
by the standards established, by all applicable local agencies. Each petitioner shall file a
quarterly report, one month prior to the beginning of each quarter, that summarizes the
construction projects that.are anticipated for the coming quarter. The summary will
contain a description of the type of construction and the location for each project so that
the local planning agencies can adequately coordinate multiple projects if necessary. The
reports will also contain a summary of the petitioner's compliance with all Mitigation
Measures for the projects listed. The quarterly reports will be filed with the local
planning agencies where the projects are expected to take place and the Commission’s
Telecommunications Division. The Commission filing will be in the form of an
informational advice letter. Subsequent quarterly reports shall also summarize the status

8

585 of 682


--- page 586 ---
of the projects listed in previous quarterly report, until they are completed.

C) Geologicai Resources: the petitioners shall comply with all local design construction
and safety standards by obtaining all applicable ministerial permits from the appropriate
local agencies including the development and approval of erosion control plans. These
shall be developed and implemented for areas identified as particularly unstable or
susceptible to erosion. If more than one petitioner plans to excavate sensitive areas,
coordination of their plans shall be necessary to minimize the number of disturbances.
The petitioner's compliance with this Mitigation Measure shall be included in its
quarterly report.

D) Water Resources: the petitioners shall consult with all appropriate local, state and
federal water resource agencies for projects that are in close proximity to water resources,
underground or surface. The petitioners shall comply with all applicable local, state and
federal water resource regulations including the development of site-specific mitigation
plans should the projects impact water quality, drainage, direction, flow or quantity. If
there is more than one petitioner for a particular area that requires excavation,
coordination plans shall be required to minimize the number of disturbances. The
petitioner's compliance with this Mitigation Measure shall be included in its quarterly
report.

E) Air Quality: the petitioners shall develop and implement appropriate dust control
measures during excavation as recommended by the applicable air quality management
district. The petitioners shall comply with all applicable air quality standards as
established by the affected air quality management districts. If there is more than one
petitioner for a particular area that requires excavation, coordination plans shall be
required to minimize the number of disturbances. The petitioner's compliance with this
Mitigation Measure shail be included in its quarterly report.

F) Transportation and Circulation and Public Services: the petitioners’ shall
coordinate their efforts to install fiber optic cables or additional conduits so that the
number of disturbances to the utility rights-of-way are minimized. These coordination
efforts shall include affected transportation and planning agencies to coordinate other
projects unrelated to the petitioners’ projects. For example, review of a planning agency's
Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) to identify impacted street projects would be an
expected part of the coordination effort by the petitioner. Besides coordinating their
efforts, the petitioners shall abide by all local construction, maintenance and safety
standards (and state standards, if applicable) by acquiring the necessary ministerial
permits from the appropriate local agency and/or CalTrans (if within State right-of-way).
Examples of these permits are excavation, encroachment and building permits.
Appropriate construction start and end times, and dates if appropriate, shall be employed

3 See Footnote #2.

586 of 682



--- page 587 ---
to avoid peak traffic periods, especially if the petitioners’ work encroaches upon
transportation rights-of-way. Notice to the affected area (surrounding property owners
and occupants) shal] be given at least two weeks in advance of the construction. The
notice will provide the time and dates of the proposed construction and discussion of
potential impacts on traffic and circulation. Petitioners shall consult with local agencies
on appropriate restoration of public service facilities that are damaged by the
construction and shall be responsible for such restoration. The notice required for
Mitigation Measures F and H shall be consolidated. The petitioner's compliance with this
Mitigation Measure shal! be included in its quarterly report.

G) Hazards: the petitioners shall use the Transportation and Circulation mitigation
measure and augment it by informing and consulting with emergency response or
evacuation agencies if the proposed project interferes with routes used for emergencies or
evacuations. The coordination effort shall include provisions so that emergency or
evacuation plans are not hindered. If the projects result in an increase in overhead
communication lines, the petitioner shall obtain the necessary ministerial permits to erect
the necessary poles to support the lines. The Commission shall include these facilities as
part of its overhead line regular inspections so that the requirements of G.O. 95 are met.
The petitioner's compliance with this Mitigation Measure shall be included in its
quarterly report.

H) Noise: the petitioner shall abide by all applicable local noise standards and shall
inform surrounding property owners and occupants, particularly school districts, hospitals

-and the residential neighborhoods, of the day(s) when most construction noise would
occur if the petitioner plans excavation, trenching or other heavy construction activities
which would cause any significant noise. Notice shall be given at least two weeks in
advance of the construction. The notice required for Mitigation Measures F and H shall
be consolidated. The petitioner's compliance with this Mitigation Measure shall be
included in its quarterly report.

I) Aesthetics: All applicable local aesthetic standards will be addressed by the petitioners
for all facilities that are above-ground, in particular all types of service boxes or cabinets.
The local land use agency shall be consulted by the petitioner so that any site-specific
aesthetic impacts are assessed and properly mitigated by the petitioner. For example, this
may include restoration of the landscaped utility rights-of-way. Petitioner's compliance
with this Mitigation Measure shall be included in its quarterly report.

J) Cultural Resources: The petitioners shall conduct appropriate data research for
known cultural resources in the proposed project area, and avoid such resources in
designing and constructing the project. Should cultural resources be encountered during
construction, all earthmoving activity which would adversely impact such resources shall
be halted or altered until the petitioner retains the service of a qualified archaeologist who
will do the appropriate examination and analysis. The archaeologist will provide

10

587 of 682


--- page 588 ---
proposals for any procedures to mitigate the impact upon those resources encountered.
The treatment plan will be designed through coordination with the appropriate federal,
state and local agencies. The petitioner's compliance with this Mitigation Measure shall
be included in its quarterly report.

General Statement for all Mitigation Measures:

Although local safety and aesthetic input is essential in minimizing the impact of the petitioner's
construction, local jurisdictions cannot impose standards or permit requirements which would
prevent petitioners from developing their service territories, or otherwise interfere with the
statewide interest in competitive telecommunication service. Therefore, the petitioners’ required
compliance with local permit requirements is subject to this limitation.

With the implementation of the mitigation measures listed in A) - J) above, the Commission
should conclude that the proposed projects will not have one or more potentially significant
environmental effects. The Commission should also adopt a Mitigation Monitoring Plan which
will ensure that the Mitigation Measures listed above will be followed and implemented. The
Mitigation Monitoring Plan is included with this Negative Declaration as Appendix C.

Natalie Walsh, Program Manager
Analysis Branch
Energy Division

4-27-19

Date

588 of 682


--- page 589 ---
INITIAL STUDY CHECKLIST

Environmental Factors Potentially Affected:

The environmental factors checked below would be potentially affected by this project, involving at least one
impact that is a "Potentially Significant Impact" as indicated by the checklist on the following pages.

Land Use and Planning Transportation/C irculation | Public Services

O Population and Housing O Biological Resources &) Utilities and Service
Systems
) Geological Problems O Energy and Mineral Resources
Aesthetics
{&] Water Hazards
GJ Cultural Resources

& Air Quality &) Noise

© Recreation
[x] Mandatory Findings of
Significance

Note: For construction outside of the utility rights-of-way, potential environmental impacts are too variable
and uncertain to be specifically evaluated in this Initial Study, but are addressed in Environmental
Determination 1 and Mitigation Measure (A) in the Negative Declaration.

Determination:
On the basis of this initial evaluation:

| find that the proposed projects COULD NOT have a significant effect
on the environment, and a NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared.

| find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect
on the environment, there will not be-a significant effect in this case be-
cause the mitigation measures described on an attached sheet have been
added to the projects. A NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared.

| find that the proposed projects MAY have a significant effect on the
environment, and an ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT is required.

| find that the proposed projects MAY have a significant effect(s) on the
environment, but at least one effect 1) has been adequately analyzed in an
earlier document pursuant to applicable legal standards, and 2) has been
addressed by mitigation measures based on an earlier analysis as described

on attached sheets, if the effect is a "potentially significant impact” or
"potentially significant unless mitigated." An ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
REPORT is required, but it must analyze only the effects that remain to be
addressed.

589 of 682


--- page 590 ---
| find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the
environment, there WILL NOT be a significant effect in this case because all
potentially significant effects (a) have been analyzed adequately in an earlier
EIR pursuant to applicable standards and (b) have been avoided or mitigated
pursuant to that earlier EIR, including revisions or mitigation measures that are
imposed upon the proposed project.

foe 27-997
Date

Signature Fw N- Wels b

Natalie Walsh Program Manager
Printed Name Analysis Branch

Energy Division
California Public Utilities Commission

590 of 682


--- page 591 ---
|. LAND USE AND PLANNING. Would the proposal:

Conflict with general plan designation or
zoning?

Conflict with applicable environmental plans

or policies adopted by agencies with jurisdiction

over the project?

Be incompatible with existing land use in the
vicinity?

Affect agricultural resources or operations
(e.g. impacts to soils or farmlands, or impacts
from incompatible land uses)?

Disrupt or divide the physical arrangement of
an established community (including a low-
income or minority community)?

Potentially
Significant
Unless
Mitigation
Incorporated

Less Than
Significant
Impact

Potentially
Significant
Impact

No
Impact

0 & O oO

The proposed projects are not anticipated to:have any significant impacts on general or environmental plans,
zoning, existing land usage, or agricultural resources. The projects are essentially modifications to existing
facilities within established utility rights-of-way. Since these rights-of-way are already designed to be in
compliance with zoning and land use plans, disruption of such plans are not foreseeable. In the event that the
petitioners need to construct facilities that extend beyond the rights-of-way, see Mitigation Measure A in the

Negative Declaration.

Il. POPULATION AND HOUSING. Would the proposal:

Cumulatively exceed official regional or
local population projections?

a)

b) Induce substantial growth in an area either
directly or indirectly (e.g. through projects in
an undeveloped area or extension of major

infrastructure?

Displace existing housing, especially affordable
housing?

c)

Oo D 0 fx)

Oo a) Oo &

The proposed projects will not have impacts upon population or housing. The purpose of the projects is to

3

591 of 682


--- page 592 ---
introduce competition into the local telephone service market. Since competition will be generally statewide and
not centered in one locale, it is not anticipated that the projects will have an effect on population projections or
housing availability of any particular area. The areas that will not initially receive the competition are rural, less
populated areas; it cannot be seen that the initial lack of competitive services in these areas will result i in
significant movements of people to areas where competition will be heavy.

Potentially
Significant
Potentially Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation Significant = No
Impact Incorporated Impact Impact
III. GEOLOGIC PROBLEMS. Would the proposal result
in or expose people to potential impacts involving:
a) Fault rupture? Oo 0 o .
b) Seismic ground shaking? O a) a) t)
c) Seismic ground failure, including liquefaction? oO a) | &
d) — Seiche, tsunami, or volcanic hazard? 0 oO O ea
e) Landslides or mudflows? Oo &) 0 8)
f) Erosion, changes in topography or unstable
soil conditions from excavation, grading, or
fill? o & . Oo 0
g) Subsidence of land? 0 Oo Oo
h) Expansive soils? a) o 0 &
i) Unique geologic or physical features? 0 O 0 3}

The projects will be constructed within existing utility facilities or established utility rights-of-way and will
therefore not expose people to new risks for any of these impacts, except possibly erosion. Should additional cable
facilities require the installation of new or upgraded conduits, trenching, excavation, grading and fill could be
required. For appropriate mitigation, see > Mitigation Measures (B) and (C) for details in the Negative
Declaration.

IV. WATER. Would the proposal result in:

a) Changes in absorption rates, drainage patterns,
or the rate and amount of surface runoff? 0 es) 0 [x]

b) Exposure of people or property to water
related hazards such as flooding? 0 0 a) x)

592 of 682


--- page 593 ---
Potentially

Significant
Potentially - Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation Significant No
Impact Incorporated Impact Impact
c) Discharge into surface waters or other alteration
of surface water quality (e.g. temperature, dissolved
_oxygen or turbidity)? OO: - oO O
d) Changes in the amount of surface water in any ;
water body? o . Oo Oo x
e) Changes in currents, or the course or direction
of water movements? O 0 0 &
f) Change in the quantity of ground waters, either
through direct additions or withdrawals, or
through interception of an aquifer by cuts or
excavations or through substantial loss of
groundwater recharge capability? O &
g) Altered direction or rate of flow of groundwater? Oo &
h) Impacts to groundwater quality? | Oo | & 0 oO:
i) Substantial reduction in the amount of groundwater .
otherwise available for public water supplies? 0 0 0 &

The projects will involve alterations to existing telecommunication facilities (underground conduits or overhead
poles) but could expose additional risks if more than one petitioner decide to compete in the same locality. Efforts
to install cables, or if necessary, new conduits, in utility rights-of-way that are in close proximity to an
underground or surface water sources could carry significant effects for quality, flow, quantity, direction or
drainage if done improperly and without coordination. See Mitigation Measures (B) and (D) in the Negative
Declaration for details.

V. AIR QUALITY. Would the proposal:

a) Violate any air quality standard or contribute
to an existing or projected air quality violation? 0 & Oo 0

b) Expose sensitive receptors to pollutants? o &) Oo

593 of 682



--- page 594 ---
Potentially

Significant
Potentially Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation Significant No
Impact Incorporated Impact Impact
c) Alter air movement, moisture, or temperature, or
cause any change in climate? Oo QO QD (x)
d) Create objectionable odors? Oo O Oo &

If the projects do not require excavation or trenching of underground conduits, they will not have an effect upon
air quality, movement, temperature or climate. However, should the projects require such work and, if more than
one petitioner decide to work in the same locale, there is pote::tial for an increase in dust in the immediate area.
See Mitigation Measures (B) and (E) in the Negative Declaration for details.

VI. TRANSPORTATION/CIRCULATION.
Would the proposal result in:
a) Increased vehicle trips or traffic congestion? | i) D QO
b) Hazards to safety from design features (e.g.
sharp curves or dangerous intersections) or

incompatible uses (e.g. farm equipment)? im) x D 0

c) Inadequate emergency access or access to nearby

uses? 0 go O
d) Insufficient parking capacity on-site or off-site? D () O QO
e) Hazards or barriers for pedestrians or bicyclists? 0 x) D

f) Conflicts with adopted policies supporting
alternative transportation (e.g. bus turnouts, :
bicycle racks)? | D 0

g) Rail, waterborne or air traffic impacts? 0 Ka 0 0

The petitioners plan to mcdify existing utility conduits or poles within existing utility rights-of-way initially in
urban, commercial zones and residential areas. Modification of these facilities by a single party does not present
significant impacts upon traffic or circulation since the installation process is not expected to be lengthy.
However, if more than one of the petitioners decide to compete in the same locality, their efforts to install their
own cables will have a significant cumulative effect on circuiation, especially in dense, urban commercial areas.
Asa result, increases in traffic congestion, insufficient parking, and hazards or barriers for pedestrian are
possible. See Mitigation Measures (B) and (F) in the Negative Declaration for details.

594 of 682


--- page 595 ---
Potentially

Significant
Potentially Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation Significant No
Impact Incorporated Impact Impact
VI1. BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES.
Would the proposal result in impacts to:
a) Endangered, threatened, or rare species or their
habitats (including but not limited to plants, fish,
insects, animals, and birds)? oO oO | x)
b) Locally designated species (e.g. heritage trees)? O | oO .. oO &
¢) Locally designated natural communities (e.g. oak
forest, coastal habitat, etc.)? oO oO Oo Fa]
d) Wetland habitat (e.g. marsh, riparian and vernal
pool)? Oo Oo oO ei
—e) Wildlife dispersal or migration corridors? oO oO oO rs

The projects will not affect any biological resources since all anticipated work will occur within existing utility
facilities or established utility rights-of-way. Established utility rights-of-way are assumed to be outside of
locally designated natural communities, habitats or migration corridors.

Vill. ENERGY AND MINERAL RESOURCES.
Would the proposal result in:

a) Conflict with adopted energy conservation plans? © 0 Oo

b) Use non-renewable resources in a wasteful and
inefficient manner? | Oo oO &

c) Result in the loss of availability of a known mineral
resource that would be of future value to the
region and the residents of the State? O oOo | O es

The projects will no impact upon mineral resources or the use of energy. The projects provide competitive
telecommunication services that have no direct relationship to efficient energy use or mineral resources. The
installation of additional fiber optic cables are within existing facilities or rights-of-way that are assumed to have
adequate mitigation designs to avoid impacts on any mineral resources within proximity.

595 of 682


--- page 596 ---
Potentially
Significant
Potentially - Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation Significant No
Impact incorporated Impact Impact

IX. HAZARDS. Would the proposal involve:

a) Arisk of accidental explosion or release of
hazardous substances (including, but not limited
to: oil, pesticides, chemicals or radiation)?

Possible interference with an emergency response
pian or emergency evacuation plan?

. The creation of any health hazard or potential
health hazard?

d) Exposure of people to existing sources of potential
_ health hazards? Oo Oo Oo

e) Increased fire hazard in areas with flammable
brush, grass, or trees? oO oO 0

The installation of fiber optic cables can be a quick, clean and simple procedure with little use of heavy
machinery. However there may be situations where excavation and trenching of underground conduits is
necessary if the conduits are not easily accessible. Should this occur, uncoordinated efforts by the.petitioners in
one concentrated area could potentially affect emergency response or evacuation plans for that locale. See
Mitigation Measures (B) and (G) in the Negative Declaration for details. Once the project is completed, the
additional cables do not represent any additional hazards to people nor do they increase the possibility of fires.

X.. NOISE. Would the proposal result in:
a) _ Increases in existing noise levels? O [).: oO o

b) Exposure of people to severe noise levels? 0 x) o D

The anticipated projects can be a quick and simple procedure, but in some cases could require heavy machinery or
construction activity such as excavation, trenching, grading and refill. There is also the possibility that
uncoordinated efforts by the petitioners in one locale could increase existing noise levels, if their activities involve
the construction described. See Mitigation Measures (B) and (H) in the Negative Declaration for details.

596 of 682


--- page 597 ---
Potentially
Significant

Potentially Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation Significant No
Impact Incorporated Impact Impact
XI. PUBLIC SERVICES. Would the proposal have an
effect upon, or result in a need for new or altered
government services in any of the following areas:
a) Fire protection? ws) O O )
b) Police protection? o Oo o
c) Schools? Oo O 0 &)
d) Maintenance of public facilities, including roads? 0 . 0 O
e) Other government services? 0 Oo 0 &

The proposed projects will increase competition in the local telephone service. The construction associated with
the projects have potential impacts on the maintenance of public streets and roads. Numerous disturbances ‘to the
street surfaces depreciates the quality and longevity of the pavement. Trenching projects may also impact other
existing public service facilities (e.g. irrigation lines) in the utility rights-of-way. Mitigation Measure F addresses
this impact.

X11. UTILITIES AND SERVICE SYSTEMS. Would the
proposal result in a need for new systems or supplies,
or substantial alterations to the following utilities:

a) Power or natural gas? | 0 O Oo) &
b) Communication systems? 0 ww a}
c) Local or regional water treatment or

distribution facilities? — Oo O. 0
d) Sewer or septic tanks? | oO oO
e) Storm water drainage? oO oO 0 &
f) Solid waste disposal? 0 oO oO &
g) Local or regional water supplies? 0 O 0 Ea

The proposed projects could substantially alter communication systems in the event that existing facilities are
unable to accommodate all of the participants in the market. If this should occur, additional conduits or poles for
telecommunication equipment will need to be inserted in existing utility rights-of-way or the petitioners may seek
entry to other rights-of-way. If the petitioners are forced to construct outside of the existing utility rights-of-way,

9

597 of 682


--- page 598 ---
Mitigation Measure A is applicable. For work within the rights-of-way, see Mitigation Measure B in the Negative
Declaration.

Potentially
Significant
Potentially Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation _— Significant No
Impact Incorporated Impact Impact

XIII. AESTHETICS. Would the proposal:
a) Affect a scenic vista or scenic highway? QD 0 0
b) Havea demonstrated negative aesthetic effect? Oo om) on) oO
c) Create light or glare? Oo D 0 4]

The proposed projects will occur within utility rights of way that will be either be undergrounded or on existing
poles. Undergrounded facilities will have no demonstrated negative aesthetic effects. However, landscaped utility
rights-of-way may be impacted by trenching activities. Additional lines on the poles may be a concern, but the
proposed cables are not easily discernible and will unlikely have a negative impact. The only scenario where an
aesthetic effect can occur is if the number of competitors for a particular area become so heavy that the cables on
the poles become excessive. . There is potential for an increase in service boxes if the boxes cannot be installed
within buildings or underground. Should this occur, the petitioners should follow Mitigation Measures (B) and (1)
as described in the Negative Declaration.

XIV. CULTURAL RESOURCES. Would the proposal:

a) Disturb paleontological resources?
b) Disturb archaeological resources?
c) Affect historical resources?

d) Have potential to cause a physical change
which would affect unique ethnic cultural values? O &) Oo 0

e) Restrict existing religious or sacred uses within
the potential impact area? O Bl Oo 0

The projects will involve existing utility facilities or established rights-of -way that are assumed to be clear from
any paleontological, historical or archaeological resources. However, some projects may require excavation or
trenching of utility rights-of-way, or outside the rights-of-way. If sown or unanticipated cultural resources are
encountered during such work, then the Mitigation Measures (B) and (J) should be followed. See Negative
Deciaration for details.

598 of 682



--- page 599 ---
Potentially
Significant
Potentially Unless Less Than
Significant Mitigation Significant . No
Impact Incorporated Impact ‘Impact

XV. RECREATION. Would the proposal:

a) _Increase.the demand for neighborhood or
regional parks or other recreational facilities? O D O &

b) Affect existing recreational opportunities? O O O

The projects will have no impact on recreational facilities or opportunities since these resources have no direction
relationship to increased competition in local telephone services.

XVI. MANDATORY FINDINGS OF SIGNIFICANCE.

a) Does the project have the potential to degrade the
quality of the environment, substantially reduce the
habitat of a fish or wildlife species, cause a fish or
wildlife population to drop below self-sustaining
levels, threaten to eliminate a plant or animal
community, reduce the number or restrict the range
of a rare or endangered plant or.animal, or eliminate
important examples of the major periods of California
history or prehistory? a)

Does the project have the potential to achieve
short-term, to the disadvantage of long-term,
environmental goals? Dp

Does the project have impacts that are individually
limited, but cumulatively considerable? ("Cumulatively
considerable” means that the incremental effects of a
project are considerable when viewed in connection
with the effects of past projects, the effects of other
current projects, and the effects of probably future
projects.) O

Does the project have environmental effects which
will cause substantial adverse effects on human beings,
either directly or indirectly? oO

599 of 682


--- page 600 ---
Appendix A

_ TFLEPNUNr EXCHANGE AREAS
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION

LEGEND

PACIIC BELL (PB)

GTE CALFOANLA (GT)

CONTE OF CALFORNA (CT)

OTHER TELEPHONE COMPANIES

UNFILED TERAMITOAY

NUMBER PLAN AREA BOUNDARIES (NPA) -AREA CODES"
LATA BOUNOARIES

PALM SPRINGS WARKET Anta

Ue
igen

Mh

cH
itil
i

|
|

|
i
a oe

H

HN
|
§
i"
Wh
a

| a I

fi

nye

a
I

ut
3_T

me

- ‘ en ~ L

ea con ea

oe

ae

ry
so


--- page 601 ---
APPENDIX B

PROJECT SPONSORS AND ADDRESSES

Eagle Communications of California, LLC
1.95-04-044 (Pet 132)

US Data Highway Corp.
1.95-04-044 (Pet. 133)

Seren Innovations, Inc.
1.95-04-044 (Pet. 134)

HTC Communications, LLC
1.95-04-044 (Pet. 135)

Network Plus, Inc.
1.95-04-044 (Pet. 136)

Campuslink Communications Systems, Inc.

1.95-04-044 (Pet. 137)

XL Networks, Inc.
1.95-04-044 (Pet. 138)

. Triad Communications Corporation
- 1,95-04-044 (Pet. 139)

1.95-04-044 (Pet. 140)

60 East 56" Street
New York, NY 10022

1113 Hopkins Way
Pleasanton, CA 94566

15 South 5" Street, Suite 500
Minneapolis, MN 55402

2131 N. Lamer Street
Burbank, CA 91504

234 Copeland Street
Quincy, MA 02169

1530 Eisenhower Place
Ann Arbor, MI 48108

909 Via Mirola | .
Palos Verdes Estates, CA 9027

2420 Sand Hill Road
Menlo, Park, CA 94025

700 Wilshire Boulevard, 7" Floor
Los Angeles, CA 90017

601 of 682


--- page 602 ---
Appendix.C
Mitigation Monitoring Plan

Competitive Local Carriers (CLCs)
Projects for Local Exchange Telecommunication Service throughout California

Introduction:

The purpose of this section is to describe the mitigation monitoring process for the CLCs'
proposed projects and to describe the roles and responsibilities of government agencies in
implementing and enforcing the selected mitigation measures.

California Public Utilities Commission (Commission):

The Public Utilities Code confers authority upon the Commission to regulate the terms of service
and safety, practices and equipment of utilities subject to its jurisdiction. It is the standard
practice of the Commission to require that mitigation measures stipulated as conditions of
approval be implemented properly, monitored, and reported on. Section 21081.6 of the Public
Utilities Code requires a public agency to adopt a reporting and monitoring program when it
approves a project that is subject to the adoption of a mitigated negative declaration.

The purpose of a reporting and monitoring program is to ensure that measures adopted to
mitigate or avoid significant environmental impacts are implemented. The Commission views
the reporting and monitoring program as a working guide to facilitate not only the
implementation of mitigation measures by the project proponents, but also the monitoring,
compliance and reporting activities of the Commission and any monitors it may designate.

The Commission will address its responsibility under Public Resources Code Section 21081.6
when it takes action on the CLCs' petitions to provide local exchange telephone service. If the
Commission adopts the Negative Declaration and approves the petitions, it will also adopt this
Mitigation Monitoring Plan as an attachment to the Negative Declaration.

Project Description:

The Commission has authorized various companies to provide local exchange telephone service
in competition with Pacific Bell, GTE California, Roseville Telephone Company and Citizens
Telephone Company of California. The.current petitioners notified the Commission of their
intent to compete in the territories throughout California, all of which are facilities-based services
meaning that they propose to use their own facilities to provide service.

602 of 682


--- page 603 ---
Step 1: Disputes and complaints (including those of the public) shall be directed first to the
Commission's designated Project Manager for resolution. The Project Manager will attempt to
resolve the dispute.

Step 2: Should this informal process fail, the Commission Project Manager may initiate
enforcement or compliance action to address deviation from the proposed project or adopted
Mitigation Monitoring Program.

Step. 3: Ifa dispute or complaint regarding the implementation or evaluation of the Mitigation
Monitoring Program or the Mitigation Measures cannot be resolved informally or through
enforcement or compliance action by the Commission, any affected participant in the dispute or
complaint may file a written "notice of dispute" with the Commission's Executive Director. This
notice shall be filed in order to resolve the dispute in a timely manner, with copies concurrently
served on other affected participants. Within 10 days of receipt, the Executive Director or
designee(s) shall meet or confer with the filer and other affected participants for purposes of
resolving the dispute. The Executive Director shall issue an Executive Resolution describing his
decision, and serve it on the filer and the other participants.

Partie: may also seek review by the Commission through existing procedures specified in the
Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, although a good faith effort should first be made
to use the foregoing procedure.

Mitigation Monitoring Program:

1. As discussed in Mitigation Measure B, the petitioners shall file a quarterly report which
summarizes those projects which they intend to construct for the coming quarter. The report will
contain a description of the project and its location, and a summary of the petitioner's compliance
with the Mitigation Measures described in the Negative Declaration. The purpose of the report is
to inform the local agencies of future projects so that coordination of projects among petitioners
in the same locality can be done. The quarterly report shall be filed with the appropriate
planning agency of the locality where the project(s) will occur. The report shall also bé filed as
an informational advice letter with the Commission’s Telecommunications Division so that
petitioner compliance with the Mitigation Measures are monitored..

In order to ensure that the Mitigation Measures are fulfilled, the Commission will make periodic
reviews of the projects listed in quarterly reports. The projects will be generally chosen at
random, although the Commission will review any project at its discretion. The reviews will
follow-up with the local jurisdictions so that all applicable Mitigation Measures are addressed.

603 of 682


--- page 604 ---
If any project is expected to go beyond the existing utility rights-of-way, that project will require
a separate petition to modify the CPCN. The petitioner shall file the petition with the
Commission and shall also inform the affected local agencies in writing. The local agencies are
also responsible for informing the Commission of any project listed in the quarterly reports
which may potentially go out of the existing utility nght-of-way. As discussed in Mitigation
Measure A, a complete environmental review of the project will be triggered under CEQA, with
the Commission as the lead agency.

2. In the event that the petitioner and the local agency do not agree if a project results in work
outside of the utility rights-of-way, the Commission will review the project and make the final
determination. See Dispute Resolution Process discussed above.

3. For projects that are in the utility rights-of-way, the petitioners shall abide by all applicable
local standards as discussed in the Mitigation Measures. If a petitioner fails to comply with local
regulatory standards by either neglecting to obtain the necessary permits, or by neglecting to
follow the conditions of the permits, the local agency shall notify the Commission and Dispute
Resolution Process begins..

4. The Commission is the final arbiter for all unresolvable disputes between the local agencies
and the petitioners. If the Commission finds that the petitioner has not complied with the
Mitigation Measures in the Negative Declaration, it may halt and terminate the project.

604 of 682


--- page 605 ---
Since many of the facilities-based petitioners are initially targeting local telephone service for
areas where their telecommunications infrastructure is already established, very little
construction is envisioned. However, there will be occasion where the petitioners will need to |
install fiber optic cable within existing utility underground conduits or attach cables to overhead
lines. There is the possibility that existing utility conduits or poles will be unable to
accommodate all the planned facilities, thereby forcing some petitioners to:build or extend
additional conduits into other rights-of-way, or into undisturbed areas. For more details on the
project description please see Project Description in the Negative Declaration.

Roles and Responsibilities:

As the lead agency under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the Commission is
required to monitor this project to ensure that the required mitigation measures are implemented.
- The Commission will be responsible for ensuring full compliance with the provisions of this
monitoring program and has primary responsibility for implementation of the monitoring
program. The purpose of this monitoring program is to document that the mitigation measures
required by the Commission are implemented and that mitigated environmental impacts are
reduced to insignificance or avoided outright.

Because of the geographic extent of the proposed projects, the Commission may delegate duties
and responsibilities for monitoring to other environmental monitors or consultants as deemed
necessary. For specific enforcement responsibilities of each mitigation measure, please refer to
the Mitigation Monitoring Table attached to this plan. .

The Commission has the ultimate authority to halt any construction, operation, or maintenance
activity associated with the CLC's local telephone service projects if the activity is determined to

. be a deviation from the approved project or adopted mitigation measures. For details refer to the
mitigation monitoring plan discussed below. -

Mitigation Monitoring Table:

‘The table attached to this plan presents a compilation of the Mitigation Measures in the Negative
Declaration. The purpose of the table is to provide the monitoring agencies with a single
comprehensive list of mitigation measures, effectiveness criteria, the enforcing agencies, and
timing. .

Dispute Resolution Process:

The Mitigation Monitoring Plan is expected to reduce or eliminate many potential disputes.
However, in the event that a dispute occurs, the following procedure will be observed:

605 of 682


--- page 606 ---
Mitigation Monitoring Table

72 Imnact

ALL FACTOR

Extenston or work
beyond or outside of

of the existing
utility right-of-way
into undisturbed

areas.

Cumulative im-
pacts due to

multiple disturb-
ances to a par-
ticular area.

A. Petitioner must file a Petitton

Quarterly raports.
to modify its CPCN. An appropriate .
environmental study of the

project ts dona.

B. Coordinatton efforts among
the petitioners and the affect-

ed focal agencies so that

Quarterly reports.

construction projacts in the
same location can be com-

bined or simultaneous.

Any work outside of
extsting utility right-of-

Before construction

way ls assessed
through an environ-
mental study.

The number and duratlon | Local agencies. Before constructlon

of disturbances to a
particular area are
minimized.

Potentlat erosion
due to excavation,

grading and fill.

C. Petitioners shall comply
with all local design, construc-

tlon and safely standards
through permit process. Eroston
control plans for areas identifiad
as susceptible to erosion.

Quarterly reports.

Eroston at the project
areas is contained.

Local agencies. Before and during

contruction.

Potential impact on water
tesouces, underground

or surface due to exca-

vation or grading work.

D. Petitioners shall consult with
all appropriate water resource

Quarterly reports.

agencies for projects In close
proximity to water resouces
Appropriate mitigation plans shail
be developed and compliance to

atl local and state watar regu-
latlons is required.

impacts to waler qua-
lity, drainage, flow, di-

fection and quantity

Federal agencies | Before and during
Local agencies construction...
Applicable state

are averted "water resource

agencies.

* The CPUC is ultimately responsible for compliance with the mitigation measures listed in this document, but shal! defer the responsibility to federal, state and
local agencies, unless otherwise designated.

606 of 682

«ao



--- page 607 ---
“~
ts
=
i]
°
ba]
>
2)
a)
ts
=z
—]
ei
bd
~]

ww

Mitigation Monitoring Table

Potentiat increase in overhead
poles and communication fines.

Noise standards for the area are
exceeded due to consiruction.

AESTHETICS

Service boxes or cabinets may
be a visual blight. Landscaping

in utility right-of-way may be
impacted by trenching.

CULTURAL RESOURCES

Cultural resources are encount-
ered during construction; resour-

ces are damaged or moved.

| risen

G. Petitioner shafl Le ecaane TRaGHSI GI REG afl neces
sary building permits for the poles.

CPUC will Inspect the overhead

H. Ail applicable nolse standards
shali be complied with by the peti

tioners.

Petitioners shall notice the
surrounding area of construc-
{tons dates and times.

MORepas oF I

ae Or eat i

er si ee a

a reports.

Poles are bullt in com-
pliance with focal safe-

ty standards. Lines
are Inspected and
maintained as safe.

Locaf agencies.

Before and during
construction.

Quarterly reports.

Noise from construc-

Locai agencies
tion is kept to levels :

that do not exceed
tocat standards.

\. All applicable aesthetic
Standards will be met by

petitioners for above-ground
factities, especially service
cabinets. Consult with focal
agencies on proper restoration of
landscaping.

J. All earthmoving that would
impact the resources shall

cease or be altered until the
petitioner retains the service
of an archaeotogist who will
propose mitigation. Thorough re-

search done prior to construction to
avoid known resources.

Quarterty reports.

Quarterly reports.

Cabinets are placed
within existing bultd-

ings. underground, or
in areas that are tand-

a agencies.

scaped so that aesthe-
tic Impacts are minimi-

zed. Landscaping res-
tofed to original form.

Local, state
and/or federal

Cultural resources that
are encountered are

not destroyed or ad-
versely Impacted.

agencies

Before and during
construction.

Before and during
construction.

 scac aR AG OSI and during construction.

607 of 682



--- page 608 ---
PROOF OF SERVICE BY MAIL

a Gr declare: .

I am over the age of 1g years, not a party to this
proceeding, and am employed by the California Public Utilities
Commission at 505 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco, California.

On f , I depositec in the mail at
ancisco, California, ac of:

47-06 -0¥3
(DECISION NUMBER OR TYPE OF HEARING)

I,

San Fr

7 6/497
(DATE OF HEARING)

(APPLICATION/CASE/OII/O R NUMBER)

in a sealed envelope, with postage prepaic, acdressec to the
last know address of each of the adcressees in the attachec
lise.
I Geclare uncer penalty of perjury that the foregoing
ané thac chis declaraticn was executec on
at San Francisco, California.

tbh Ae

*Sicnature
9/92

608 of 682



--- page 609 ---
CA-21

6/24/99

R 95-04-043
I 95-04-044

pecision: / ) -0 6 04 5

MAIL DATE: y 2/75
Copy of “ OPINION “ and order mailed to the following.

SEE ATTACHED LIST FOR APPEARANCES, STATE SERVICE
L
Count 24 J

6/18/99
lil

doc #15576 (rev. 3/4/98)

609 of 682


--- page 610 ---
kkkkkkkkkekK SERVICE LIST kkkk kk kkk

Last updated on 18-JUN-1999 by: LIL
R9504043 LIST
19504044

kk KK KKK ERK RDPRARANCES 3 * tt RR ii ie William Brown

Matthew C. Ames

WILLIAMS MALONE/WILLIAMS L. LOWERY
Attorney At Law:

1155 CONNECTICUT AVE., NW, STE. 1000
WASHINGTON DC 20036

(202) 785-0600
mames@millervaneaton.com

For: BO&MAI/IREM/NAA/NAREIT/NMHC

Randolph W. Deutsch
Attorney At Law

AT&T COMMUNICATIONS OF CALIFORNIA, INC.

795 FOLSOM STREET, ROOM 690
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94107
(415) 442-5560
deutsch@lga.att.com

Jerry Varcak

Vice President

BANK OF AMERICA

PO BOX 37000, DEPT 13892

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94137

(925) 675-1042
gerald.varcak@bankamerica.com

Jeffrey F. Beck

BECK & ACKERMAN

4 EMBARCADERO CENTER, SUITE 760
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 263-7300

jillbit@aol.com

Stephen P. Bowen

Attorney At Law

BLUMENFELD & COHEN

4 EMBARCADERO CENTER, SUITE 1170
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 394-7500
steve@technologylaw.com

For: SpectraNet International

Walter C. Finch
Executive Vice President
BOMA CALIFORNIA

1000 BROADWAY, SUITE 355
OAKLAND CA 94607-4090

SUITE 14E06

1100 PEACHTREE ST, NE
ATLANTA GA 30309-4599
For: bakersfield cellular

Debra L. Carlton

Vice President

CALIFORNIA APARTMENT ASSOCIATION
980 NINTH STREET, STE 2150
SACRAMENTO CA 95814-2741

(916) 447-7881

Darlene Clark

CALIFORNIA CABLE TELEVISION ASSN.
PO BOX 11080

OAKLAND CA 94611

(510) 428-2225

CACableTV@aol .com

Jerome Candelaria

Attorney At Law

CALIFORNIA CABLE TV ASSOCIATION

4341 PIEDMONT AVENUE, 2ND FLOOR

OAKLAND CA 94611-4715

For: CCTA, AT&T,ICG,TCG San Francisco, TCG Los
Angeles, TCG San Diego

Carmela Castellano
1535 MISSION STREET
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94103

Joshua M. King

Senior Counsel

CELLULAR ONE/DIGITAL PCS

651 GATEWAY BLVD., SUITE 1500
SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO CA 94080
(650) 827-5656

Jon Chambers

1850 M STREET, N.W. 11TH FLR.
WASHINGTON DC 20036

For: Sprint Telecommunications Venure

610 of 682



--- page 611 ---
Charles E. Born

Director, Regulatory Affairs
CITIZENS COMMUNICATIONS

7901 FREEPORT BLVD., SUITE 200
SACRAMENTO CA 95832

(916) 665-5355

cborn@czn.com

Barbara L. Snider

Attorney At Law

CITIZENS COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY
7901 FREEPORT BLVD., SUITE 100
SACRAMENTO CA 95832

(916) 665-5335

bsnider@czn.com

Louise Renne

CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO

1390 MARKET ST., SUITE 250

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

For: City of LA/Sacramento/San Carlos/San Jose/
Santa Monica/San Mateo Cnty Tel Auth/City & Cnty
San

Robert D. Herrick

City Attorney

CITY OF MORENO VALLEY

14177 FREDERICK STREET
MORENO VALLEY CA 92552-0805
(909) 413-3036

For: CITY OF MORENO VALLEY

Nick Rahe

CITY OF SANTA ANA
PO BOX 1988

SANTA ANA CA 92702

Traci Bone

JULIA M.C. FRIEDLANDER

Deputy City Attorney

CITY/COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO

1390 MARKET ST., 5TH FLOOR

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102-5408

(415) 554-4257

For: The City of LA/Sacramento/San Carlos/San
Jose/Santa Monica;San Mateo Co Telcom Auth;S.F.
City &

Terry Monroe

Vice President, State Affairs
COMPETITIVE TELECOMMUNICATIONS ASSN
1900 M STREET, N.W., SUITE 800
WASHINGTON DC 20036 ;
(202) 296-6650

tmonroe@comptel .org

~

kkkkkkkkekkek SERVICE LIST kkkKKKKKKKKKEK

E. Garth Black

Attorney At Law

COOPER, WHITE & COOPER

201 CALIFORNIA ST., 17TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 433-1900

spb1@cwclaw.com

Mark P. Schreiber

Attorney At Law

COOPER, WHITE & COOPER, LLP

201 CALIFORNIA STREET, 17TH FLOOR

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 433-1900

spbl@cwclaw.com

For: Roseville Telephone Company/Smaller
Independent LECs ,

Dhruv Khanna

Vice President, General Counsel
COVAD COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY
2330 CENTRAL EXPRESSWAY

SANTA CLARA CA 95050

(408) 490-4560
dkhanna@covad.com

Carrington Phillip

COX CALIFORNIA TELCOM INC.
1400 LAKE HEARN DRIVE NE
ATLANTA GA 30319

Richard Smith

Director, State Regulatory Affairs
COX CALIFORNIA TELCOM, LLC

2200 POWELL STREET, SUITE 795
EMERYVILLE CA 94608-2618

(510) 923-6220
richard.smith@cox.com

Karen L. Peterson

Attorney At Law

CROSBY HEAFEY ROACH & MAY

1999 HARRISON STREET, 26TH FLOOR
OAKLAND CA 94612

(510) 466-6855
klpeterson@chrm.com

Daniel M. Waggoner
DAVIS WRIGHT TERMAINE
2600 CENTURY SQUARE
1501 FOURTH AVENUE
SEATTLE WA 98101-1688

611 of 682


--- page 612 ---
ekkkkkeeekee SERVICE LIST #88 eee RRR RK

David J. Marchant

Attorney At Law

DAVIS WRIGHT TREMAINE LLP

ONE EMBARCADERO CENTER, STE 600

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-3834

(415) 276-6568
davidmarchant@dwt.com

For: Teleport Commun.Grp,Cable Plus,

Mark P. Trinchero

Attorney At Law

DAVIS WRIGHT TREMAINE LLP

1300 SW STH AVENUE, SUITE 2300
PORTLAND OR 97201

For: ELECTRIC LIGHTWAVE

Jones Day
555 W FIFTH ST SUITE 4600
LOS ANGELES CA 90013

Shelly Bergum

Executive Director

DEAF & DISABLED TELECOM PROGRAM
1939 HARRISON STREET, SUITE 520
OAKLAND CA 94612-3532

Virginia J. Taylor

Attorney At Law

DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
400 R STREET, SUITE 3090
SACRAMENTO CA 95814-6200

(916) 445-5126

Laura H. Phillips

DOW LOHNES & ALBERTSON

1200 NEW HAMPSHIRE AVENUE, N.W.
WASHINGTON. DC 20036-6802

Penny H. Bewick

Government & Industry Affairs
ELECTRIC LIGHTWAVE, INC.

4400 NE 77TH AVENUE, PO BOX 4678
VANCOUVER WA 98662-0678

(360) 896-3211

Hal Kluis

President

EVANS TELEPHONE COMPANY
4918 TAYLOR COURT
TURLOCK CA 95382-9599

Bill Tynes

FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
131 ALBRIGHT WAY SUITE C

LOS GATOS CA 95030

Jerrey P. Gray
Attorney At Law

‘GOODIN MACBRIDE SQUERI RITCHIE & DAY LLP

505 SANSOME STREET, STE 900
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111
(415) 392-7900
jsqueri@gmssr.com

For: Mountain Celluar

John L. Clark

Attorney At Law

GOODIN MACBRIDE SQUERI RITCHIE & DAY LLP
505 SANSOME STREET, 9TH FLOOR

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 765-8443

jclark@gmssr.com

For: HTC COMMUNICATIONS, LLC

Michael B. Day

Attorney At Law
GOODIN MACBRIDE SQUERI RITCHIE & DAY LLP
505 SANSOME STREET, SUITE 900

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-3133

(415) 392-7900

mday@gmssr.com

Peter W. Hanschen "

Attorney At Law

GRAHAM AND JAMES LLP

ONE MARITIME PLAZA, SUITE 300
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 954-0258
phanschen@gj .com

Barry Pineles
Regulatory Counsel
GST TELECOM, INC.
4001 MAIN STREET
VANCOUVER WA 98663
(360) 906-7104
bpineles@gstworld.net

Susan Rossi

GTE OF CALIFORNIA INCORPORATED
LEGAL DEPARTMENT

ONE GTE PLACE, CAS500LB
THOUSAND OAKS CA 91362-3811
(805) 372-6358

susan. rossi@telops.gte.com

612 of 682



--- page 613 ---
~

- kkk aKKKKKKEK SERVICE LIST #8 8% kkk R RR RE

Schelly Jensen
Manager-Government Relations
GTE WIRELESS

12677 ALCOSTA BOULEVARD

SAN RAMON CA 94583-0811"
(510) 904-3908

Bruce M. Holdridge

Director, Government Affairs
ICG TELECOM GROUP, INC.

180 GRAND AVENUE, SUITE .1000
OAKLAND CA 94612

(510) 251-7033

K.S. Noller

Assistant General Manger
IMPERIAL IRRIGATION DISTRICT
PO BOX 937

IMPERIAL CA 92251

Earl Nicholas Selby

Attorney At Law

LAW OFFICES OF EARL NICHOLAS SELBY
418 FLORENCE STREET

PALO ALTO CA 94301-1705

(650) 323-0990

enselby@wenet .net

Kim Logue

Regulatory Analyst

LCI INTERNATIONAL TELECOM CORP.
4250 N. FAIRFAX DRIVE, 12W002
ARLINGTON VA 22203

(703) 363-4321

kim. logue@qwest .net

Terry J. Houlihan

Attorney At Law

MCCUTCHEN DOYLE BROWN & ENERSEN LLP
3 EMBARCADERO CENTER, 18TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 393-2022

thoulihanemdbe.com

William C. Harrelson
ANTHONY DITIRRO

Attorney At Law

MCI WORLDCOM

201 SPEAR STREET, 9TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105
(415) 228-1090

william. harrelson@wcom.com

Woody Trayler
MCIMETRO

2250 LAKESIDE BLVD
RICHARDSON TX 75082

Mary E. Wand

Attorney At Law
MORRISON & FOERSTER LLP
425 MARKET STREET

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105
(415) 268-7201
mwand@mofo.com

Hojoon Hwang

Attorney At Law

MUNGER TOLLES & OLSON LLP

355 S. GRAND AVE., 35TH FLOOR
LOS ANGELES CA 90071-1560
(213) 683-9150
hwanghxemto.com

Burton Gross

MUNGER, TOLLES & OLSON, LLP

33 NEW MONTGOMERY STREET 19TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105

(415) 512-4024

grossba@mto.com

Terry Murray
MURRAY & ASSOCIATES
227 PALM DRIVER
PIEDMONT CA 94610

Helen M. Mickiewicz
Legal Division

RM. 5123

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-1319
hmm@cpuc.ca.gov

Joseph R. Cocke

NORTH AMERICAN NUMBERING PLAN ADM
SUITE 349

2060-D AVENUE ARBOLES

THOUSAND OAKS CA 91362

Martin A. Mattes

Attorney At Law

NOSSAMAN GUTHNER KNOX & ELLIOTT, LLP
50 CALIFORNIA STREET, 34TH FLOOR

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-4799

(415) 398-3600

mmattes@nossaman.com

Robert J. Gloistein

Attorney At Law

ORRICK HERRINGTON & SUTCLIFFE, LLP
400 SANSOME STREET

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-3143

(415) 773-5900
rgloistein@orrick.com

613 of 682



--- page 614 ---
kkkkKkKKKKKKK SERVICE LIST **#** kee KKK KEK

David Discher

ROBERT J. MAZIQUE

Attorney At Law

PACIFIC BELL

140 NEW MONTGOMERY ST, ROOM 1517
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105

(415) 542-7747
david.discher@pactel.com

For: Pacific Bell

Ed Kolto Wininger
Attorney At Law
PACIFIC BELL

140 NEW MONTGOMERY ST., ROOM 1619
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105

(415) 545-9422 —
ed.kolto.wininger@pactel.com

Nicola Erbe

Attorney At Law
‘PACIFIC BELL

140 NEW MONTGOMERY ST., ROOM 1514
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105

(415) 542-7691
nicola.erbe@pactel.com

Louis E. Vincent

Attorney At Law

PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY

PO BOX 7442

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94120

(415) 973-2981

For: Pacific Gas and Electric Company

Michelle L. Wilson

Attorney At Law

PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY

PO BOX 7442, LAW DEPT.

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94120

(415) 973-7467

For: PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY

\

Isabelle Salgado

PACIFIC TELESIS LEGAL GROUP
2600 CAMINO RAMON, ROOM 2W802
SAN RAMON CA 94583

Peter A. Casciato

Attorney At Law

PETER A. CASCIATO, A PROF. CORP.
8 CALIFORNIA STREET, SUITE 701
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-4825
(415) 291-8661
casciato@dnai.com

For: ASSOCIATION OF DIRECTORY PUBLISHERS ~

Randall B. Lowe

PIPER & MARBURY, L.L.P.
1200 NINETEENTH STREET, NW
WASHINGTOM DC 20036

Cheryl Hills

Attorney At Law

PRIMA LEGAL SERVICES

2317 BROADWAY, SUITE 350
REDWOOD CITY CA 94063

(650) 261-0500
chills@primelegal.com

For: Cox California Telcom

Maria E. Andrade

PUBLIC ADVOCATES, INC.

1535 MISSION STREET

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94103-2500
(415) 431-7430
MariaEAndrade@hotmail.com

Daniel Weaver

SAN FRANCISCO BEAUTIFUL

41 SUTTER STREET, SUITE 709
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94104

Natalie D. Wales

Attorney At Law

SPRINT COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY L.P.
1850 GATEWAY DRIVE, 7TH FLOOR

SAN MATEO CA 94404-2467

(650) 513-2732
natalie.d.wales@mail.sprint.com

Andrew Lipman

SWIDLER BERLIN SHEREFF FRIEDMAN, LLP
3000 K ST NW STE 300

WASHINGTON DC 20007

Peter J. Stapp

Vice President Of Regulatory Policy
TCI TELEPHONY SERVICES, INC.

5619 DTC PARKWAY

ENGLEWOOD CO 80111-3000

614 of 682


--- page 615 ---
Andrew O. Isar

Director, Industry Relations
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RESELLERS ASSN.
4312 92ND AVENUE, N.W. ,
GIG HARBOR WA 98335

(253) 265-3910
aisar@harbor-group.com

Deborah Waldbaum

KAREN NOTSUND

Attorney At Law

TELEPORT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP INC
1350 TREAT BOULEVARD, STE 500
WALNUT CREEK CA 94596

M:chael A. Morris
t+gional Vice President
TELEPORT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP INC.
+ FGULATORY AND EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
. 50 TREAT BLVD.
«i UNUT CREEK CA 94596
° 20) 949-0600
- rris@tcg.com

n.omas Long

THE UTILITY REFORM NETWORK
“.. VAN NESS AVE., STE 350
. 42: FRANCISCO CA 94102
+125) 929-8879

* ,ong@turn.org

cecil O. Simpson, Jr.

vS ARMY LEGAL SERVICES AGENCY

°901 NORTH STUART STREET, SUITE 713
ARLINGTON VA 22203-1837

(703) 696-1643

simpsco@hqda. army.mil

Susan Davis Morley

WIGGINS & VILLACORTA, P.A.
2145 DELTA BOULEVARD, STE 200
TALLAHASSEE FL 32302

(850) 385-6007
wiggvill@nettally.com

Michael J. Thompson
Attorney At Law

WRIGHT & TALISMAN, PC

1200 G STREET, N.W., STE 600
WASHINGTON DC 20005

(202) 393-1200
thompson@wrightlaw.com

~

- kkekkkkkkeke SERVICE LIST *tktetk kittie

David A. Simpson

Attorney At Law

YOUNG VOGL HARLICK WILSON & SIMPSON LLP
425 CALIFORNIA ST., STE 2500

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94104

(415) 291-1970

das@bizlaw.net

For: Western Fiber telecom, LLC

David M. Wilson

Attorney At Law

YOUNG VOGL HARLICK WILSON & SIMPSON LLP
425 CALIFORNIA STREET, STE 500

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94104-2107

(415) 291-1970

kkk kkkkkkkkkekk STATE SERVICE ** eke kK KK KKK KKK

Joseph A. Abhulimen
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-E

S505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-1458
jaa@cpuc.ca.gov

Natalie Billingsley

Office of Ratepayer Advocates
RM. 4101

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

(415) 703-1368
nxb@cpuc.ca.gov

Mary Jo Borak
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-D

S05 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-1879
bor@cpuc.ca.gov

Danny Shields

Manager

CALTRANS RIGHTS-OF-WAY PROGRAMS
1120 N STREET, MS 37

SACRAMENTO CA 95814-5690

Tracey F. Pirie
Administrarive Analyst

CITY OF SANTA BARBARA

PO BOX 1990

SANTA BARBARA CA 93102-1990

615 of 682



--- page 616 ---
Jerry Jazmadarian
Telcommunications Manager
COUNTY OF PLACER

2809 SECOND STREET
AUBURN CA 95603

(530) 889-7735

Brian M. Chang

Office of Ratepayer Advocates
RM. 4205

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

(415) 703-1333
bmc@cpuc.ca.gov

Robert T. Feraru
Public Advisor Office
RM. 5303

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-2074
rtf@cpuc.ca.gov

Janice L. Grau

Legal Division

RM. 5023

50S VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-1960
jlg@cpuc.ca.gov

Risa Hernandez
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-D

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-5331
rhh@cpuc.ca.gov

Karen Jones
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-D

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-1955
kaj@cpuc.ca.gov

Ira Kalinsky

Legal Division

RM. 5027:

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-2130
kal@cpuc.ca.gov

~

kkkkkkkkekik SERVICE LIST ** eee KHKKKEK

Victoria S Kolakowski
ORA/CIB

Office of Ratepayer Advocates
RM. 4102

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

(415) 703-2245
vsk@cpuc.ca.gov

For: ROOM 4102, 3-2245

Jonathan Lakritz
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-E

S505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-2117
jol@cpuc.ca.gov

Thomas Lew

Office of Ratepayer Advocates
RM. 4205 ,

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

(415) 703-1784
tho@cpuc.ca.gov

Bill Neill

Private Citizen, Professional Engineer
PO BOX 33666

SAN DIEGO CA 92163-3666

(619) 231-1313

PROEV@MILL.NET

Barbara Ortega

Executive Division

RM. 5109

320 WEST 4TH STREET SUITE 500
LOS ANGELES CA 90013

(213) 576-7070
bho@cpuc.ca.gov

Dale Piiru

Office of Ratepayer Advocates
RM. 4101

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

(415) 703-1726
dgp@cpuc.ca.gov

Thomas R. Pulsifer
Administrative Law Judge Division
RM. 5005

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

(415) 703-2386

trp@cpuc.ca.gov

616 of 682


--- page 617 ---
~

- kkkkkkkkkkkk SERVICE LIST *** kkk kkKK KKK

Jacqueline A. Reed
Administrative Law Judge Division
RM. 5117

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102

(415) 703-2935

jar@cpuc.ca.gov

Utilities And Communications Committee
SENATE ENERGY

STATE CAPITOL ROOM 408

SACRAMENTO CA 95814

Eleanor Yung Szeto
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-D

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-2253
eys@cpuc.ca.gov

Leah A. Senitte

9-1-1 Program Mgr.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DIVISION
601 SEQUOIA PACIFIC BLVD
SACRAMENTO CA 95814-0282

Allan G. Tolman

Departmentof General Services
. TELEPHONE & NETWORK SVCS.

601 SEQUOIA PACIFIC BLVD.
SACRAMENTO CA 95814

Jensen Uchida
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-D ©

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-5953
jJmu@cpuc.ca.gov

Lionel B. Wilson

Legal Division

RM. 5136

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-1642
lbw@cpuc.ca.gov

kk kkk eek keke TNFORMATION ONLY * & 8k tk ke ee

Clifford G. Rudolph

President And Chief Exec. Officer
ADVANCED TELCOM GROUP, INC.

885 N. SAN ANTONIO ROAD, SUITE R
LOS ALTOS CA 94022

(650) 559-8900

Richard C. Nelson

Director ~- Regulatory

AIRTOUCH COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

ONE CALIFORNIA STREET, 28TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-5401

(415) 658-2059

Mark J. Angell

ANGELL & ASSOCIATES

1075 ROSEWOOD DRIVE

GRAPEVINE TX 76051

(817) 329-7424

For: Digital Telecommunications Services, LLC

Glenn Stover

Attorney At Law

AT&T COMMUNICATIONS

795 FOLSOM STREET, ROOM 670
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94107
(415) 442-5550
gstover@att.com

William A. Ettinger

Attorney At Law

AT&T COMMUNICATIONS OF CALIFORNIA, INC.
795 FOLSOM STREET, ROOM 625

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94107

(415) 442-2783

ettinger@att.com

For: AT&T Communications of California, Inc.

Kurt Maass

AT&T WIRELESS SERVICES, INC.
5400 CARILLON POINT
KIRKLAND WA 98033

Mary Kruchten

BANK OF AMERICA

PO BOX 37000 DEPT 13411
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94137

M. Manuel Fishman

Attorney At Law

BARTKO ZANKEL TARRANT MILLER
900 FRONT STREET, STE 300
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 956-1900
mfishman@bztm. com

617 of 682


--- page 618 ---
~

kkakkkkekkkkek SERVICE LIST ** xe eKKaKKKK

Charles L. Best
Attorney At Law

1220 S.W. MORRISON ST.,
PORTLAND OR 97205

SUITE 805

Stephen P. Bowen

Attorney At Law

BLUMENFELD & COHEN

4 EMBARCADERO CENTER, SUITE 1170
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 394-7500
steve@technologylaw.com

James E. Pickrell
BRAND X INTERNET

927 6TH STREET

SANTA MONICA CA 90403
(310) 395-5500

Milton J. Morris,
Attorney

BROOKS FIBER COMMUNICATIONS OF SAC.

10316 PLACER LANE

SACRAMENTO CA 95827

(916) 431-5105

For: Brooks Fiber Communications of Sacramento,
Inc.

Esq.

Rachel J. Rothstein
Senior Regulatory Counsel
CABLE & WIRELESS, INC.
8219 LEESBURG PIKE
VIENNA VA 22182

(703) 734-4439

Jeff Kositsky

CAL/NEVA COMMUNITY ACTION
225 30TH ST STE 200
SACRAMENTO CA 95814

‘Traci Nutter

CALIFORNIA PAYPHONE ASSOCIATION
1866 CLAYTON ROAD, SUITE 213
CONCORD CA 94520

Jeffrey Elkins Ceo

CALTECH INTERNATIONAL TELECOM
197 JOAQUIN CIRCLE

DACVILLE CA 94526

Douglas F. Carlson

POST OFFICE BOX 12574
BERKELEY CA 94712-3574
(510) 597-9995 -
dafc@uclink4 .berkeley.edu

Heidi Sieck Williamson

Dept Of Telecommunications & Information
CITY & COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO

875 STEVENSON STREET, 5TH FLOOR

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94103

(415) 554-0811
heidi_sieck-williamson@ci.sf.ca.us

Bremda Riddick
Director .
CLEC IMPLEMENTATION

1250 BAYHILL DRIVE, STE 200
SANBRUNO CA 94066

(650) 794-2689

brenda. riddick@ren.net

Michele Tennant

COLE RAYWID BRAVERMAN

1919 PENNSYLVANIA AVE., NW.,
WASHINGTON DC 20006-3458

SUITE 200

Nancy Biagini

Cwa Staff Representative
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
411 AIRPORT BOULEVARD

BURLINGAME CA 94010

(650) 348-7303

Ken Mceldowney

Executive Director

CONSUMER ACTION

717 MARKET STREET, SUITE 310
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94103

Thomas J. Burke

CONTEL SERVICE CORPORATION
#CAS5S00 GCF

ONE GTE PLACE

THOUSAND OAKS CA 91362-3811

Bernard H. Chao

Esquire

COVAD COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY
2330 CENTRAL EXPRESSWAY
SANTA CLARA CA 95050

(408) 490-4367
bchao@covad.com

Alexander V. Netchvolodoff

Vice President Of Public Policy
COX ENTERPRISES, INC.

1225 19TH STREET NW, STE 450
WASHINGTON DC 20036-2458

618 of 682°


--- page 619 ---
Cherrie Conner
Telecommunications Division
AREA 3-D

505 VAN NESS AVE

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
(415) 703-2767
chr@cpuc.ca.gov

Joseph Faber

Attorney

DAVIS WRIGHT TREMAINE LLP

ONE EMBARCADERO CENTER

SUITE 600

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-3834

(415) 276-6500

For: New Telco, d/b/a Sprint Telecommunications
Venture

Juanita Harris ;

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE/TELECOM TASK FORCE
ANTITRUST DIVISION NO.8104

1401 H STREET NW, STE 8000

WASHINGTON DC 20530

(202) 514-5642

For: DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

David Carter

DIALINK CORPORATION

164 E. DANA STREET
MOUNTAIN VIEW CA 94041-1508
(650) 691-9330

T.M. Eagan

Calif. Environmental & Resource Assc.
EAGAN & WARD ;

‘1024 10TH STREET, STE. 300
SACRAMENTO CA 95814-3514

Kevin P. Timpane

FIRST WORLD COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
878 ELIZABETH STREET

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94114

Esther H. Rosenthal
Regulatory Counsel

FIRSTWORLD COMMUNICATIONS

9333 GENESEE AVENUE, SUITE 200
SAN DIEGO CA 92121

(615) 552-8010

Gwen Moore

GEM COMMUNICATIONS
4201 WILSHIRE BLVD.,
LOS ANGELES CA 90010

STE 300

- RKKKKKKEEEKEE SERVICE LIST **¥ eke KKKKKKK

Regina Deangelis

Attorney At Law

GOODIN MACBRIDE SQUERI RITCHIE & DAY LLP
505 SANSOME STREET, SUITE 900

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 392-7900

For: Preferred Long Distance, Inc.

Regina M. Deangelis

Attorney At Law

GOODIN MACBRIDE SQUERI RITCHIE & DAY LLP
505 SANSOME STREET, STE 900

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 392-7900

Michael Gersick

GRATTAN GERSICK KARP MILLER
980 9TH STREET, 16TH FLOOR
SACRAMENTO CA 95814-2719

Gary Yaquinto

Vice President, Government Affairs
GST TELECOM INC.

1201 S. ALMA SCHOOL ROAD, STE 2000
MESA AZ 85210

Ken Snow
Director-Government Affairs
GST TELECOM, INC.

1340 TREAT BLVD., SUITE 100
WALNUT CREEK CA 94596

Margo Friedrich

Regulatory Affairs

GTE CALIFORNIA INCORPORATED
711 VAN NESS AVE., STE 300

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94102
margo.friedrich@telops.gte.com

Helen Hall

GTE CARD SERVICES INCOPORATED

5221 N. O'CONNOR BLVD., 13TH FLOOR
IRVING TX 75039

Gordon Allen

GTE CARD SERVICES INCORPORATED
1200 WALNUT HILL LANE, STE 2600
IRVING TX 75038

619 of 682



--- page 620 ---
Brenda J. Boykin

LOUIS GURMAN

GURMAN , BLASK & FREEDMAN, CHARTERED
1400 SIXTEENTH STREET, N.W., SUITE 500
WASHINGTON DC 20036

(202) 328-8200

For: Commco Tec Corporation

Leslie S. Spahnn

HEIM NOACK KELLY & SPAHNN
1121 L STREET, SUITE 100
SAXRAMENTO CA 95814

Linda L. Oliver

HOGAN & HARTSON

555 THIRTEENTH STREET, N.W.
WASHINGTON DC 20004-1109
(202) 637-5600

lol@dcl .hhlaw.com

Allan C. Hubbard, Esq.

Regulatory Counsel

POST OFFICE BOX 10804

300 WEST SERVICE ROAD

CHANTILLY VA 20153

(703) 478-5772

For: Access Network Services, Inc.

Jack Burk

President

INTEGRATED TELESERVICES, INC.
7108 N. FRESNO STREET, SUITE 300
FRESNO CA 93720

Richard Cc. Hall

INTEL CORPORATION

1900 PRAIRIE CITY RD, M/S FM4-125
FOLSOM CA 95630-9598

Lance Sentman

International Research Analyst
INTERNATIONAL TELCOM, LTD.

417 SECOND AVENUE WEST

SEATTLE WA 98119

(206) 479-2899

For: INTERNATIONAL TELCOM, LTD.

Edward W. O'Neill

Attorney At Law

JEFFER MANGELS BUTLER & MARMARO LLP
ONE SANSOME STREET, 12TH FLOOR

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94104

(415) 392-8080

ewo@jmbm.com

~

. kkkkkkkkkkkk SERVICE LIST ***k ee kK KK KEKE

Jonathan E. Canis
Attorney
KELLEY DRYE & WARREN

1200

19TH STREET, N.W., SUITE 500

WASHINGTON DC 20036

(202)
For:

Ross
BRAD

955-9600
Intermedia Communications, Inc.

A. Buntrock
E. MUTSCHELKNAUS

KELLEY DRYE & WARREN LLP

1200

19TH STREET, FIFTH FLOOR

WASHINGTON DC 20036

(202)
For:

955-9600
ACSI Local Switched Services, Inc. dba

e.spire

David Klein

KLEIN ZELMAN ROTHERMEL & DICHTER, LLP
485 MADISON AVENUE

NEW YORK NY 10022

(212)
For:

935-6020

Eagle Communications of California , LLC

Scott M. Johnson

Attorney At Law

LAW OFFICE OF SCOTT M. JOHNSON
21312 FOREST MEADOW

EL TORO CA 92630-5813

(949)
For:

855-6358
Brand X Internet

David A. Jones
LEAGUE OF CALIFORNIA CITIES

1400

K STREET

SACRAMENTO CA 95814

Thomas Mcdonald

Attorney

LEBOEUF LAMB GREENE & MACRAE
ONE EMBARCADERO CENTER

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415)
For:

951-1100
MCI Metro Access Transmission Services,

Jacqueline R. Kinney

Attorney At Law

LEGAL AND LEGISLATIVE SERVICES

2788

LAND PARK DRIVE

SACRAMENTO CA 95818

620 of 682

I


--- page 621 ---
« kkkkkkkekkeek SERVICE LIST ** xe eee KKKKKK

Terrence J. Ferguson

Senior Vice President & General Counsel
LEVEL 3 COMMUNICATIONS, LLC

3555 FARNAM STREET

OMAHA NE 68131

(402) 536-3624

General Counsel

LOS ANGELES CELLULAR TELEPHONE CO.
17785 CENTER COURT DRIVE

NORTH CERRITOS CA 90703-8575

Mark Brown

Senior Attorney |

MCI TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORP.
201 SPEAR STREET, 9TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105

(415) 978-1292

For: MCI Metro Access Transmission Services, Inc.

Denise V. Thomas

MCI WORLDCOM

2678 BISHOP DRIVE, STE 200
SAN RAMON CA 94583

Nikayla Nail

Attorney At Law

MCI WORLDCOM

201 SPEAR STREET, 9TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105
(415) 228-1150
n.nail@mci.com

Mark E Brown

JOHN A. GUTTIEREZ

MEDIAONE TELECOMMUNICATIONS OF CALIF, INC
1999 HARRISON STREET, STE 660

OAKLAND CA 94612-3517

Lonn L. Beedy

METRO ONE COMMUNICATIONS
8405 S W NIMBUS AVENUE
BEAVERTON OR 97008

Francis F. Chin

General Counsel

METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
JOSEPH P. BORT METRO CENTER

101 EIGHTH STREET

OAKLAND CA 94607-4700

(510) 464-7710

Kent Heyman, Esq.

Vice President & General Counsel
MGC COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

3165 PALMS CENTRE DRIVE

LAS VEGAS NV 89103

(702) 310-1000

Marilyn H. Ash
Associate Legal Counsel
MGC COMMUNICATIONS , INC.
3301 N. BUFFALO DRIVE
LAS VEGAS NV 89129

(702) 310-8461
mash@mgccom. com

Rocky N. Unruh

Judith A. Holiber

MORGENSTEIN & JUBELIRER LLP
ONE MARKET PLAZA

SPEAR STREET TOWER, 32ND FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105

(415) 896-0666

Lorrie Bernstein

MOSS ADAMS

1899 WEST MARCH LANE, SUITE F
STOCKTON CA 95207-6422

(209) 957-5851
Gregory M. Duncan, Ph.D.

Vice President

NATIONAL ECONOMIC RESEARCH ASSOC.
777 SOUTH FIGUEROA STREET, STE.
LOS ANGELES CA 90017

INC.
4200

Jane Emerson

Manager Of Research

NEW PARADIGM RESOURCES GROUP,
12 S. MICHIGAN AVE., 5TH FLOOR
CHICAGO IL 60603

INC

Karen M. Potkul

Attorney At Law

NEXTLINK CALIFORNIA, INC.
1924 E. DEERE AVENUE, STE 110
SANTA ANA CA 92705

(949) 417-7766
kpotkul@nextlink.net

Steven Gorosh, Esq.

_ Vice President & General Counsel

NORTHPOINT COMMUNICATIONS

222 SUTTER STREET, 7TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94108

For: NORTHPOINT COMMUNICATIONS

621 of 682


--- page 622 ---
KaKKKKKKkRKRKEK SERVICE LIST KkKkKKRKKKKKKRKK

Jose E. Guzman, Jr. D.M. Carroll

Attorney At Law PAGING SYSTEMS, INC
NOSSAMAN GUTHNER KNOX & ELLIOTT LLP ; PO BOX 4249

50 CALIFORNIA STREET, 34TH FLOOR BURLINGAME CA 94011-4249
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-4799

(415) 398-3600 Peter A. Casciato
jeg@ngke.com Attorney At Law

For: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION PETER A. CASCIATO, A PROF. CORP.
8 CALIFORNIA STREET, SUITE 701
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-4825

Audrey P. Rasmussen (415) 291-8661
O'CONNOR & HANNAN, L.L.P. casciato@dnai.com
SUITE 800 .
2919 PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE, N.W. Peter A. Casciato
wASHINGTON DC 20006-1400 : Attorney At Law
202) 887-1400 PETER A. CASCIATO, A PROF. CORP.
8 CALIFORNIA STREET, SUITE 701
Fate Riley SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111-4825
:FFICE OF ASSEMPLYMAN WALLY KNOX (415) 291-8661
“TATE CAPITOL casciato@dnai.com
r ‘DM 6025 ; For: Time Warner Telecom of California, L.P.

. STRAMENTO CA 95814
~:6) 316-2042

».°e@.riley@asm.ca.gov Bonnie Y. Cheng
Director Of Operations
f:ed W. Daniel PHOENIX INTEGRATION CORPORATION
"?ION TELECOM. 7773 EAST GARVEY AVENUE., SUITE 832
i BOX 9227 ROSEMEAD CA 91770
.©WPORT BEACH CA 92658-9227 (909) 868-0808
Carl K. Oshiro Jeff Hendrix
Counselor At Law PROTEL, INC.
200 FIRST STREET, SUITE 2540 4150 KIDRON ROAD
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105 LAKELAND FL 33811
(415) 927-0158 ‘
oshirock@pacbell.net Deborah Kong
SAN JOSE MERCURY NEWS
James B. Young . 750 RIDDER PARK DRIVE
COLLEN M. O'GRADY SAN JOSE CA 95190
PACIFIC BELL (408) 920-5922
140 NEW MONTGOMERY ST. RM 1619
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105 Stephen Buel
(415) 545-0422 SAN JOSE MERCURY NEWS
750 RIDDER PARK DRIVE
Robert Mazique SAN JOSE CA 95126
Attorney
PACIFIC BELL — Keith W. Melville
140 NEW MONTGOMERY STREET Attorney At Law
15TH FLOOR SEMPRA ENERGY
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105 101 ASH STREET
(415) 542-7712 SAN DIEGO CA 92101-3017

For: Pacific Bell , (619) 699-5039
kmelville@sempra.com

622 of 682


--- page 623 ---
kkkkkkkkekkkek SERVICE LIST KakkKkKKKKKK KKK

David M. Norris

Attorney At Law
‘SIERRA PACIFIC POWER COMPANY
6100 NEIL ROAD, PO BOX 10100
RENO NV 89520-0024

(775) 834-4208
dnorris@sppc.com

Linda Burton

SIERRA TELEPHONE

PO BOX 219

OAKHURST CA 93644-0219

Carol B. Henningson

Attorney At Law

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY
2244 WALNUT GROVE AVE.,

ROSEMEAD CA 91770

(626) 302-1911

Jeffrey M. Pfaff

Attorney At Law

SPRINT PCS ~ LEGAL/REGULATORY
4900 MAIN STREET, 11TH FLOOR
KANSAS CITY MO 64112

(816) 559-1912

Thomas K. Braun

STEPTOE & JOHNSON, LLP
2244 WALNUT GROVE AVENUE
ROSEMEAD CA 91770

(818) 302-4413
brauntk@sce.com

Charles H.N. Kallenbach
Attorney

SWIDLER & BERLIN, CHARTERED
3000 K STREET, NW., SUITE 300
WASHINGTON DC 20007

(202) 424-7715

For: L.D. Services, Inc.

James Falvey

Attorney

SWIDLER & BERLIN, CHARTERED
3000 K STREET, NW., SUITE 300
WASHINGTON DC 20007

(202) 424-7706

For: GST Lightwave (CA), Inc.

Richard M. Rindler

Attorney .

SWIDLER & BERLIN, CHARTERED
3000 K STREET, NW., SUITE 300
WASHINGTON DC 20007

(202) 424-7500
For: WorldCom Technologies, Inc.

Lawrence A. Walke

Attorney At Law

SWIDLER BERLIN SHEREFF FRIEDMAN LLC
3000 K STREET, NW, SUITE 300
WASHINGTON DC 20007

(202) 424-7500

For: DSLnet COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

Phyllis Whitten

SWIDLER BERLIN SHEREFF FRIEDMAN, LLC
3000 K STREET, N.W., SUITE 300
WASHINGTON DC 20007-5116

(202) 424-7500

Andrew D. Lipman

KATHLEEN L. GREENMAN

SWIDLER BERLIN SHEREFF FRIEDMAN, LLP
3000 K ST., N.W., SUITE 300
WASHINGTON DC 20007

(202) 945-6922

Carol Critchlow-Bentley

SWIDLER BERLIN SHEREFF FRIEDMAN, LLP
3000 K STREET, N.W., STE. 300
WASHINGTON DC 20007

(202) 424-7793

Louise Beale

Consultant
TECHNOLOGIES MANAGEMENT, INC.
PO DRAWER 200
WINTER PARK FL 32790-0200
(407) 740-8575

Julie Richey

Marketing Director

TEL COM PLUS

5251 110TH AVE. NORTH, STE 118
CLEARWATER FL 33760

(813) 572-7832

Mark O'Krent

TELEPHONE CONNECTION OF LOS ANGELES
9911 WEST PICO BLVD., STE. 680

LOS ANGELES CA 90035-2710

623 of 682


--- page 624 ---
Mike Freedman

Regional Business Manager
TELIGENT, INC. ,

111 BROADWAY,:- SUITE 1300

OAKLAND CA 94607-5500

Terri Natoli

CAROLYN SHUP, ESQ.

Esquire

TELIGENT, INC.

8065 LEESBURG PIKE, STE 400
VIENNA VA 22180

Edwin D. Jones

TESCO

355 STARLING ROAD
MILL VALLEY CA 94941
(415) 383-1825

Patricia J Osorio

THE GREENLINING INSTITUTE
785 MARKET ST 3RD FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94103-2003

Kenneth F. Melley, Jr. .
Vice President Of Regulatory Affairs
U.S. LONG DISTANCE, INC.

9311 SAN PEDRO, SUITE 300

SAN ANTONIO TX 78216

(210) 525-9009

Steve Page

US DATA HIGHWAY CORP.
1113 HOPKINS WAY
PLEASANTON CA 94566
(925) 454-8624

Michael Shames

Attorney At Law

UTILITY CONSUMERS' ACTION NETWORK
1717 KETTNER BLVD., SUITE 101

SAN DIEGO CA 92101-2532

(619) 696-6966

mshames@ucan.org

Glen Carolo

VALLEY COMMUNICATIONS INCORPORATED
47221 FREMONT BOULEVARD

FREMONT CA 94538

(510) 659-9955 X314
gcarolo@valleycom.com

Bruce J. Weston
Attorney At Law

169 WEST HUBBARD AVENUE
COLUMBUS OH 43215-1439

~

kkkk kK KEKE SERVICE LIST *# te RR Re

Kathleen Villacorta

Attorney

WIGGINS & VILLACORTA, P.A.

POST OFFICE BOX 1657

S501 EAST TENNESSEE STREET, SUITE B
TALLAHASSEE FL 32302

(904) 222-1534

For: Business Discount Plan, Inc. d/b/a L.D.
Discount Plan

David Wilner
PO BOX 2340
NAVATO CA 94948-2340

‘Maia Ettinger

Legal Director

WORKING ASSETS FUNDING SERVICE, INC.
101 MARKET STREET, NO. 700

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105

(415) 369-2084

Walter Mcgee

WORKING ASSETS FUNDING SERVICE
701 MONTGOMERY ST., SUITE 400
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

Rachelle B. Chong

WENDY CHOW/COUDERT BORTHERS

XL NETWORKS, INC.

4 EMBARCADERO CENTER, SUITE 3300
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 986-1300

For: XL NETWORKS, INC.

Rachelle B. Chong

XL NETWORKS, INC.

4 EMBARCADERO CENTER, SUITE 3300
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94111

(415) 986-1300

David A. Simpson

Attorney At Law

YOUNG VOGL HARLICK WILSON & SIMPSON LLP

425 CALIFORNIA ST., STE 2500

SAN FRANCISCO CA 94104

(415) 291-1970 :

das@bizlaw.net

For: Bakersfield Cellular Telephone Company

624 of 682



--- page 625 ---
pw)

NETWORK PLUS, INC.
234 COPELAND STREET
QUINCT CA 02169

(1)
EAGLE COMMUNICATIONS OF CALIFORNIA, LLC

60 EAST 56TH STREET
NEW YORK NY 10022

(I)
CAMPUSLINK COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS, INC.

1530 EISENHOWER PLACE
ANN ARBOR MI 48108

(1)
SEREN INNOVATIONS, INC.

15 SOUTH 5TH STREET, SUITE 500
MINNEAPOLIS MN 55402

“(1)

700 WILSHIRE BLVD, 7TH FLOOR
LOS ANGELES CA 90017

(I)

XL NETWORKS, INC.
909 VIA MIROLA
PALOS VERDES ESTATES CA 90274

(1)

HTC COMMUNICATIONS, LLC
2131 N LAMER STREET
BURBANK CA 91504

(1)

TRIAD COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
2420 SAND HILL ROAD
MENLO PARK CA 94025

(IT)

US DATA HIGHWAY CORP.
1113 HOPKINS WAY
PLEASANTON CA 94566

625 of 682



--- page 626 ---
CROWN AUTHORIZATION
1 CASTLE June 1, 2022 v1.2

Confirmation of MLA | AT&T & Crown Castle Fiber LLC
CROWN CASTLE / AT&T AGREEMENT SW771

This letter acknowledges that AT&T and Crown Castle Fiber LLC f/k/a NextG entered into a Master License
Agreement on June 16, 2005, which authorizes Crown Castle Fiber LLC f/k/a NextG to attach wireless
communications equipment to AT&T owned wood poles. After AT&T's engineering review and approval of

each individual poles proposed make ready work, AT&T will issue Crown Castle's permit to attach.

Cit Viedeno Von

JOE SERRATO VICTORIA KNEER
Supervisor, Utility Relations Area Manager — Structure Access West
T: (408) 468-5564 | M: (408) 785-0411 Construction & Engineering-West

T: 916.213.7669 | vm5625@att.com
CROWN CASTLE
1 Park Place, 3rd Floor, Dublin, CA 94568 AT&T West

Fiber.CrownCastle.com 2700 Watt Ave, rm 4475, Sacramento, CA 95821

The pathway to possible.
CrownCastle.com

626 of 682


--- page 627 ---
627 of 682

--- page 628 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO >
ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION FORM INSTRUCTIONS

The information provided by the applicant on this form will enable City staff to
understand the proposed project and to prepare any necessary environmental
documents. Careful completion of this form will enable staff to more
efficiently and quickly process your application. -

Answers to the 34 numbered questions should be entered in the space provided.
At the end of each question, circle YES or NO. If you circle YES, please
complete all subsections of that question. If you circle NO proceed to the next
numbered question. All questions must be answered to complete your
application. Extra sheets may be attached if longer responses are necessary.

Please contact Planning Staff at (650) 522-7212 if you! have any. questions in
completing this form.

EXISTING SITE & DEVELOPMENT
1. Site area (sq. ft. or acres): Back of curb 7 2x2 sq ft
2. Zoning: | RIA

3. Is there existing development on site? _ YES

-a. Existing building floor area (gross sq; ft.):

b. Existing building coverage:

c... Number of existing off-street parking spaces:
d. Number of existing bicycle parking spaces:
e. Number of existing structures on the site:

f. Existing use (# of units of residential, or type of use and sq. ft. of use if commercial):

4. Are structures or portions thereof, to be removed? . YES

a. Square footage to be removed: |

5. Is the property encumbered by any easements? YES
!ACDD\PLANNING\FORMS\ENVLNG2.DOC 12/01/98

628 of 682


--- page 629 ---
Residential
Residential
Residential
Residential
629 of 682

--- page 630 ---
Crown Castle small wireless 
 on an existing
in PROW
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
630 of 682

--- page 631 ---
No changes in patterns, scales, or character. 
No changes in any scenic views.
Wireless Communication Facilities Permit
required for all wireless facilities installed in San Mateo. 
631 of 682

--- page 632 ---
f. Land area to be disturbed (sq. ft.):
g. Proposed erosion control measures:

h. Proposed measures to prevent failure of slopes:

17, Does the site contain a known landslide area, soil creep, expansive soils or othpememidence
of geologic failure? a, YES.

a, Describe nature and location(s):

18. Does the site contain an unusual geologic landform, such as a ridge line or rock ¢ p?
ves [no ]

a. Describe feature:
b. Describe any proposed modification:

WATER/HYDROLOGY
19. Does the site contain or abut a natural drainage channel or streambed? YES [ NO) (No)

a. Describe location(s):

20. Describe any proposed alterations to such channel(s) or stream bed(s): -

21.Does the site abut the Bay, Marina Lagoon, or a slough? ; YES

a. Describe any proposed alterations to such water feature or shoreline.

22.Describe the expected amount of water use (except for residential development of fewer
than 4 units):

Domestic: N/A _galday Peak Use: N/A gal/day
Commercial: N/A gal/day Peak Use: N/A: gal/day
-5-

632 of 682


--- page 633 ---
N/A

Expected fire flow demand: gal/min.
Daily sewer discharge (over 30 fixtures only): N/A gal/day

VEGETATION

23.Will the project remove any trees that are 6° or greater in diameter at a poiptedeabove
grade, or a substantial amount of natural plant cover? YES.

a. List the number, types and sizes of all trees existing on the site, and ail of these to be

removed. (Attach another sheet if more space is needed.)

b. Describe the existing natural brush and groundcover features of the site and any

proposed reduction.

EXTERNAL IMPACTS

24.Will the proposed project generate dust, smoke, fumes or odors, excluding fre during
construction? oe Co YES

a. Describe emission(s), extent and duration:

25.Will the project involve the use, storage or disposal of potentially toxic or hazardous

materials, including solvents, acids, pesticides, herbicides, or radioactive substaye
YES

a. Detail type(s), quantities, storage and disposal procedures:

26.is the project. expected to generate noise .in sufficient levels to be heard beyond the
boundaries of the site? YES (no)

a. Describe noise generating activities:

b, Daily time duration:

UTILITIES/PUBLIC WORKS ;
27.Will the proposed project require extension or alteration of existing electrical traremission
and distribution facilities? YES (no)

a.. Give details of extension:

633 of 682


--- page 634 ---
b. Describe location of new electric transformer, if required: : -

28. Are any off-site improvements proposed (such as sewer or storm drain extensiog
YESLNO)

a. Please describe nature and location:

29, Will the proposed project incorporate any measures to conserve electricity, or water
| | | YES

a. Please describe:

30.Are new curb cuts proposed or existing curb cuts eliminated? . YES
a. Describe number and location(s):

31.Are new streets, or driveways in excess of 300 feet in length, to be developed within the

proposed project? YES

a. Indicate whether private or public:
b. List lengths and widths:
c. Maximum grade (%):

32. Will proposed structures be protected by fire sprinklers? YES

DISPLACEMENT
33. Will existing businesses or residents be displaced by the proposed development?

VES

a. Describe type(s) of business(es) or numbers of residents to be displaced:

634 of 682


--- page 635 ---
Pole
Pole
2 '
10'
Jason Camarena
Jason Camarena
1 Park Pl, Suite 300
CA
Dublin
8"
8"
.44'
4"
6"
.17
(925) 201-5806
94568
635 of 682

--- page 636 ---
RF Compliance Report 
 
636 of 682

--- page 637 ---
RF EMISSIONS COMPLIANCE REPORT
Prepared for:
Crown Castle
1 Park Place
Dublin, CA 94568
Site:
535 Clark Dr
San Mateo, CA 94402
37.565984, -122.349195
September 20, 2023
This site will be in compliance with
FCC Regulations and MPE Limits:
Crown Castle Is 1.2% of General Population (GP) Limit
(0.24% of Occupational (Occ) Limit)
Certification
I have reviewed this RF Emissions
assessment report and believe it to be both
true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge.
Analysis completed using Waterford's NIERTool© software
Only clients and client representatives are authorized to provide input data through the Waterford web
portal. In securing that authorization, clients and client representatives warrant the accuracy of all input
data.  Waterford Consultants, LLC attests to the accuracy of the engineering calculations. Waterford also
attests that the results of those engineering calculations are correctly summarized in this report. 
©Copyright 2005-2023 Waterford Consultants, LLC. 
All rights reserved
7430 New Technology Way, Suite 150  
   Frederick, Maryland 21703               (703) 596-1022 Phone
  www.waterfordconsultants.com
Control # 100357
637 of 682

--- page 638 ---
RF EMISSIONS COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
Site:
535 Clark Dr
San Mateo, CA 94402
Compliance Statement
Subject site COMPLIES with Radiofrequency Radiation Exposure Limits of 47 C.F.R. §§ 1.1307(b)(3) and
1.1310.
Ground Level Site Summary
Predicted cumulative RF power density at  ground  level  as  a  percentage  of  the  FCC General Population
limits.  This result is the sum of the maximum ground level MPE for each RF emitter by band of operation.
Sites below 100% are in full compliance.
Source
Predicted Power Density, % of Limit (GP)
Verizon 28000 MHz
1.200 %
Sum of Listed Sources
1.200%
Antenna Level Site Summary
Predicted cumulative RF power  density  at  elevated  levels near the antenna(s)  has  been  evaluated  with
respect to  the FCC General Population limits. The mitigation measures recommended herein are necessary to
achieve and  maintain compliance at the site based on the following assessment:
Page 1 of 13 - Control # 100357
638 of 682

--- page 639 ---
Antenna Level Assessment
Signage directives for this report are specified in the Elevation Detail Plot which depicts predicted RF power density
near the antenna as a percentage of the FCC General Population limits. Areas exceeding 100% of the General
Population limits are depicted as blue. Any work required within areas exceeding 100% of the limits should be
coordinated with wireless operators or performed by personnel trained in RF safety and equipped with personal
protection equipment. Workers in areas depicted as  green or clear will not be exposed to hazardous levels of RF
energy and no action is required to maintain  a safe working environment.
As shown in the Elevation Detail Plot, the following keep-back distances to the FCC limits have been determined:
Reference Level
 
Maximum Level:
General Population (%)
Maximum Level:
Occupational (%)
Ground Level
1.200
0.240
Antenna Level
355.931
71.186
Distance to FCC 100% MPE Limits at Antenna Level
- Vertical Stand Off Distance (General Population) 3 feet
- Vertical Stand Off Distance (Occupational) N/A
- Horizontal Stand Off Distance (General Population) 5 feet
- Horizontal Stand Off Distance (Occupational) N/A
Distance to FCC 100% MPE Limits at Ground Level
- Horizontal Stand Off Distance (General Population) N/A
- Horizontal Stand Off Distance (Occupational) N/A
.
Page 2 of 13 - Control # 100357
639 of 682

--- page 640 ---
RF Alerting Signage
The "Notice" sign must be posted near the bottom of the pole or on the shroud any time there is a zone near the
antenna that exceeds the General Population limit. This sign should be mounted where it is easily visible to workers
on the ground as they approach the pole. Suggested locations include on the pole about 8-10’ from the ground or on
the front of the equipment shroud if it is mounted on the pole.
The "Caution" sign must be posted on the antenna any time there is an area that exceeds the FCC General Public
exposure limit. The keep-back distance for the General Population limit must be filled in on the sign as depicted
below. This sign must be mounted on or just below the radiating antenna so that it is maximally visible to workers
approaching the antenna in a lift or bucket truck. If there is more than one radiating antenna and they are less than 5’
apart then the sign should be mounted on or near the lower antenna. If there are multiple radiating antennas and they
are >5’ apart then separate signs should be mounted on or near each antenna.
.
Page 3 of 13 - Control # 100357
640 of 682

--- page 641 ---
Technical Framerwork: Basis for Compliance Statement
The compliance framework is derived from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Rules and
Regulations for preventing human exposure in excess of the applicable Maximum Permissible Exposure
(“MPE”) limits listed in Table 1 of 47 C.F.R. § 1.1310. Calculations using input data provided to Waterford
by client or client's representative numerically confirm the subject site can operate at a 100% duty cycle
without exceeding the FCC MPE limits in areas of uncontrolled access.
At this site, the radio frequency (RF) power density resulting from each transmitter at any location may be
expressed as a percentage of the frequency-specific limits and added to determine if 100% of the exposure
limit has been exceeded. The FCC Rules define two tiers of permissible exposure differentiated by the
situation in which the exposure takes place and/or the status of the individuals who are subject to exposure.
General Population / Uncontrolled exposure limits apply to  those situations in which persons may not be
aware of the presence of electromagnetic energy, where exposure is not employment related, or where persons
cannot exercise control over their exposure. Occupational / Controlled exposure limits apply to situations in
which persons are exposed as a consequence of their employment, have been made fully  aware of the
potential for  exposure,  and  can  exercise  control  over  their  exposure.  Based  on  the  criteria  for  these
classifications, continuous exposure to RF power density levels below the FCC General Population limits is
not hazardous. The FCC General Population limits are 5 times more restrictive than the Occupational limits.
Frequency
(MHz)
Power Density
(mW/cm2)
Averaging Time
(minutes)
Power Density
(mW/cm2)
Averaging Time
(minutes)
30-300
0.2
30
1
6
300-1500
f/1500
30
f/300
6
1500-100,000
1.0
30
5.0
6
In situations where the predicted MPE exceeds the General Population threshold in an accessible area because
of emissions from multiple transmitters, FCC licensees that contribute greater than 5% of the aggregate MPE
share responsibility for mitigation.
For any location where radiofrequency (RF) power densities exceed 100% MPE of the General Population
limits, access controls with appropriate RF alerting signage must be available to be visible upon approach
from any direction to provide notification of potential conditions within these areas. Subject to other site
security requirements, occupational personnel should be trained in RF safety and equipped with personal
protective equipment (e.g. RF personal monitor) designed for safe work in the vicinity of RF emitters. 
Waterford Consultants, LLC recommends that any work activity in these designated areas or in front of any
transmitting antennas be coordinated with the wireless operators.
Page 4 of 13 - Control # 100357
641 of 682

--- page 642 ---
Predictive Modeling
Based on the computational guidelines  set  forth in  FCC  Office of Engineering and  Technology,  Bulletin 65
("OET65"), Waterford Consultants, LLC has developed software to predict the overall MPE possible at any
particular location given the spatial orientation and operating  parameters  of  multiple  RF  sources. These
theoretical results represent worst-case predictions as emitters are assumed to be operating at 100% duty
cycle.
The tabular analysis in this report calculates the spatial peak power density produced at ground level from
each RF emitter. The far field power density in milliWatts per square centimeter is expressed as Sff = 33.4 x
ERP / R2 where ERP is the Effective Radiated Power along a specific azimuth in Watts and R is the distance
from the antenna radiation center in meters. The antenna manufacturer’s horizontal and vertical radiation
patterns have been considered in determining the ERP in any direction. This computation is based on the
maximum ERP and includes a 1.6-fold increase in field strength due to ground reflection. The result provides a
conservative estimate of spatially averaged power density at ground level and may be higher than predicted
MPE in the graphical plots described below.
As the limits are frequency dependent, the contribution of any RF source at a specific location may be
expressed as a percentage of the FCC General Population MPE limits at the associated operating frequency.
The percentage contributions from all RF sources are added to determine the overall exposure level. If this
result is less than 100%, the predicted cumulative exposure level is below the General Population limits set
forth in the FCC Rules. The cumulative MPE depicted on the summary page is the summation of maximum
MPE values for each emitter regardless of antenna orientation.
A graphical plot of calculated spatially averaged RF power density, based on the Cylindrical Model as
described in OET65, predicts spatially averaged MPE conditions at areas in near proximity to the antenna. In
the vertical display, predicted MPE is depicted at the center of the 6 ft vertical zone that a person could
occupy.
Page 5 of 13 - Control # 100357
642 of 682

--- page 643 ---
Qualifications of Waterford
With more than 100 team-years of experience, Waterford Consultants, LLC [Waterford] provides technical
consulting services to clients in the radio communications and antenna locating industry. Waterford retains
professional engineers who are placed in responsible charge of the processes for analysis.
Waterford is familiar with 47 C.F.R. § § 1.1307(b)(3) and 1.1310 along with the general Rules, Regulations and
policies of the FCC. Waterford work  processes incorporate all  specifications of FCC Office of Engineering
and Technology, Bulletin 65 ("OET65"), from the website: www.fcc.gov/oet/rfsafety  and follow criteria
detailed in 47 CFR § 1.1310 "Radiofrequency radiation exposure Limits".
Within the technical and regulatory  framework detailed  above, Waterford developed tools  according to
recognized and generally accepted good engineering practices. Permissible exposure limits are band specific,
and the Waterford computerized modeling tools correctly calculate permissible exposure based on the band(s)
specified in the input data. Only clients and client representatives are authorized to provide input  data
through the Waterford web portal. In securing that authorization, clients and client representatives attest to
the accuracy of all input data.
Waterford Consultants, LLC attests to the accuracy  of the engineering calculations computed by  those
modeling tools. Furthermore, Waterford attests that the results of those engineering calculations are correctly
summarized in this report.
Certification
My stamp and signature on the cover indicates that I am fully aware of and familiar with the Rules and
Regulations of both the Federal Communications Commissions (FCC) and the Occupational Safety  and
Health Administration (OSHA) with regard to Human Exposure to Radio Frequency Radiation, specifically in
accordance with FCC's OET Bulletin 65. I have reviewed this Radio Frequency Exposure Assessment report
and believe it to be both true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
Page 6 of 13 - Control # 100357
643 of 682

--- page 644 ---
Antenna Inventory
#
Operator
Make
Model
Freq
(MHz)
Az
(deg)
Tilt
(deg)
HorBW
(deg)
Ant
(ft)
TPO
(w)
Paths
Loss
(db)
Ant
Gain
Radiated
Power (W)
RC
AGL
(ft)
1 Verizon
ERICSSON
SON_SM6705 CM1 02.07.22 28GHz VZW
28000
90
0
4
1.312
0.294401
4
0
26.14dBd 794.330 EIRP
19.917
2 Verizon
ERICSSON
SON_SM6705 CM1 02.07.22 28GHz VZW
28000
210
0
4
1.312
0.294401
4
0
26.14dBd 794.330 EIRP
19.917
3 Verizon
ERICSSON
SON_SM6705 CM1 02.07.22 28GHz VZW
28000
330
0
4
1.312
0.294401
4
0
26.14dBd 794.330 EIRP
19.917
Page 7 of 13 - Control # 100357
644 of 682

--- page 645 ---
ELEVATION DETAIL
Predicted MPE depicted at the center of the 6 ft vertical zone that a person could occupy
Page 8 of 13 - Control # 100357
645 of 682

--- page 646 ---
TOP DOWN  DETAIL
Page 9 of 13 - Control # 100357
646 of 682

--- page 647 ---
TOP DOWN  DETAIL
Page 10 of 13 - Control # 100357
647 of 682

--- page 648 ---
GROUND LEVEL MPE BY RF EMITTER
The maximum ground level MPE along the azimuth of orientation for each RF emitter by band  of  operation  
is   listed   below.   The   computational   approach   is   described   in  the   Predictive   Modeling   section.  
The  maximum  MPE  by  operator  and  band  is  contributive  to  the  cumulative  ground  level  MPE
summary table presented above.
Verizon
ERICSSON - SON_SM6705 CM1 02.07.22 28GHz VZW 90° Sector
Maximum Exposure Limit - 28000 MHz
Limit (GP):
1000.000 µW/cm^2
EiRP
Height
Downtilt
(Watts)
794.330
(feet)
19.917
(Degrees)
0
Maximum power density at ground level:
12.005 µW/cm^2
Highest percentage of Maximum Exposure Limit:
1.200 %
Page 11 of 13 - Control # 100357
648 of 682

--- page 649 ---
Verizon
ERICSSON - SON_SM6705 CM1 02.07.22 28GHz VZW 210° Sector
Maximum Exposure Limit - 28000 MHz
Limit (GP):
1000.000 µW/cm^2
EiRP
Height
Downtilt
(Watts)
794.330
(feet)
19.917
(Degrees)
0
Maximum power density at ground level:
12.005 µW/cm^2
Highest percentage of Maximum Exposure Limit:
1.200 %
Page 12 of 13 - Control # 100357
649 of 682

--- page 650 ---
Verizon
ERICSSON - SON_SM6705 CM1 02.07.22 28GHz VZW 330° Sector
Maximum Exposure Limit - 28000 MHz
Limit (GP):
1000.000 µW/cm^2
EiRP
Height
Downtilt
(Watts)
794.330
(feet)
19.917
(Degrees)
0
Maximum power density at ground level:
12.005 µW/cm^2
Highest percentage of Maximum Exposure Limit:
1.200 %
Page 13 of 13 - Control # 100357
650 of 682

--- page 651 ---
Noise Compliance Report 
651 of 682

--- page 652 ---
engineers, 
inc.
 
CONSULTING 
 
DESIGN 
 
FIELD 
ENGINEERING
SERVICES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
447 Sutter St, Ste. 516
San Francisco, CA 94108
415.660.5940 (TEL) 
www.acgeng.com 
April 26, 2022 
To whom it may concern, 
I, Antonio C. Jakosalem (CA P.E. LIC. E15401) have reviewed the noise 
emission analysis of the Ericsson 6705 3-radio configuration cluster nodes 
in the City of San Mateo, by Jeffrey K. Pack dated April 6, 2022.  I found 
it to be technically accurate and in compliance with the standards 
contained in Chapter 7.30 of the City of San Mateo Municipal Code, 
Ref. (a).  I herewith certify that report to be correct, with my stamp and 
seal. 
 
Please process Mr. Pack
ort for permit review as if it was written by 
a P.E. Please call or email for questions.  
Very truly yours, 
 
Antonio C. Jakosalem, P.E 
tony@acgeng.com 
 
 
Principal 
652 of 682

--- page 653 ---
ACOUSTICAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA 
NATIONAL COUNCIL OF ACOUSTICAL CONSULTANTS 
April 6, 2022
Crown Castle 
1 Park Place 
Dublin, CA  94568 
Subject: 
Noise Emission Analysis, Ericsson 6705 3 Radio Configuration
Cluster Node Sites,
San Mateo
This report presents the results of a noise emission analysis of the Ericsson 6705 
radio configuration cluster nodes in the City of San Mateo. The purpose of this
analysis was to determine the minimum distances necessary from any cluster node 
installation to the nearest most noise sensitive property that will result in 
compliance with the standards contained in Chapter 7.30 of the City of San Mateo 
Municipal Code, Ref. (a).
Summary
The results of this analysis reveal that the minimum distance from the face of the nearest 
radio unit on a tilt bracket cluster system to a residential receiver location needs to be 21 
inches.  This is equivalent to 37 inches from the center of the pole.
Noise Standards - City of San Mateo Municipal Code 
The 
noise 
standards 
of 
Chapter 
7.30 
of 
the 
City 
of 
San 
Mateo 
Municipal Code limits 
noise 
from 
stationary 
noise 
sources 
at 
noise 
sensitive 
receiver locations, such as residential land use. 
The applicable Code 
section is shown on the following page. The most stringent standard is the 50 
dBA limit applied to nighttime noise generation in Noise Zone 1 and is used 
herein as the basis for this analysis. 
________________________________________________________________________
Ref. (a) City of San Mateo Municipal Code, Chapter 7.30
Noise Regulations, Subsection 7.3.040
Maximum Permissible Sound Levels, Ordinance 2004-16
653 of 682

--- page 654 ---
- 2 -
7.30.030 DESIGNATED NOISE ZONES. 
The properties hereinafter described are hereby assigned the following noise zones: 
Noise Zone 1. All property in any single family residential zone (including adjacent parks 
and open space) as designated on the City's zoning map prepared pursuant to the 
provisions of Title 27, or any revisions thereto. 
Noise Zone 2. All property in any commercial/mixed residential, multi-family residential, 
specific plan district or PUD as designated on the City's zoning map prepared pursuant to 
the provisions of Title 27, or any revisions thereto. 
Noise Zone 3. All property in any commercial or central business district as designated 
on the City's zoning map prepared pursuant to the provisions of Title 27, or any revisions 
thereto. 
Noise Zone 4. All property in any manufacturing or industrial zone as designated on the 
City's zoning map prepared pursuant to the provisions of Title 27, or any revisions 
thereto. 
(Ord. No. 2004-16 § 1.) 
7.30.040 MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE SOUND LEVELS. 
(a) It is unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated any source of sound at
any location within the City or allow the creation of any noise on property owned, leased,
occupied or otherwise controlled by such person, which causes the noise level when
measured on any other property to exceed:
(1) The noise level standard for that property as specified in Table 7.30.040 for a
cumulative period of more than 30 minutes in any hour;
(2) The noise level standard plus five dB for a cumulative period of more than 15 minutes
in any hour;
(3) The noise level standard plus 10 dB for a cumulative period of more than five minutes
in any hour;
(4) The noise level standard plus 15 dB for a cumulative period of more than one minute
in any hour; or
(5) The noise level standard or the maximum measured ambient level, plus 20 dB for any
period of time.
654 of 682

--- page 655 ---
- 3 -
(b) If the measured ambient level for any area is higher than the standard set in Table
7.3.40, then the ambient shall be the base noise level standard for purposes of subsection
(a)(1) of this section. In such cases, the noise levels for purposes of subsections (a)(2)
through (a)(5) of this section shall be increased in five dB increments above the ambient.
Table 7.30.040
Noise Level Standards
Noise Zone
7:00 am to 10:00 pm
10:00 pm to 7:00 am
Noise Zone 1
60 dBA
50 dBA
Noise Zone 2
60 dBA
55 dBA
Noise Zone 3
60
60
Noise Zone 4
70
65
* Source: Adapted from "The Model Community Noise Control Ordinance," Office of
Noise Control, California Department of Health.
(Ord. No. 2004-16 § 1.) 
Since the radios 
Equipment and Analytical Baseline Descriptions 
The planned radios are Ericsson 6705 units that are cooled using convection cooling 
rather than fans.  The noise level specification is no higher than 6.0 Bels of Sound Power.  
6.0 Bels equals 60 decibels.  The Sound Power rating must be converted to Sound 
Pressure and the emitted sound spectrum must be converted to A-weighted decibels.  
Sound Pressure must also have a distance associated with it.   
The A-weighted Sound Pressure Level is 53.5 dBA @ 12 in.
For the purposes of this study, we are using 53.5 dBA at 12 in. from the center of the unit 
as the worst-case noise emission reference level.  In addition, we are assuming that the 
53.5 dBA sound level is emitted equally in all directions around the unit as there are no 
this report in Appendix A.  
655 of 682

--- page 656 ---
- 4 -
There is one cluster node pole installations used. The installation will have three radios 
typically spaced equally around the perimeter of the pole forming an equilateral triangle.  
The angle between each unit is 60°.  The distance from the face of one unit to the face of 
another unit is 28 in.
The tilt bracket mount cluster is arranged such that the diameter of the circle created
by the radios is 32 inches.   
Below is a diagram of the typical pole mounting systems provided by the project sponsor.  
Note that the circle shown in the graphic represents the pole, not the circle created by the 
culations herein 
The most noise impacted location would be along a line normal to one of the three radios. 
The distances from the two farther radios would be equidistant to the receiver 
location that is along the normal path.
Calculations
Noise from a stationary source reduces at a rate of: 
10(r1/r2) where, rx = distance. 
For a doubling of the distance, r1 = 2 and r2 = 1.  Thus, 20log10(2/1) = 6.
656 of 682

--- page 657 ---
- 5 -
Note that sound levels in the human environment are described using A-weighted 
decibels, notated as dBA.  A-weighting is a frequency filtering network applied to noise 
data to replicate the human response to various frequencies.  When describing or 
reporting decibels in terms of change (increases, decreases), the A is dropped from the 
nomenclature as the weighting network is irrelevant in the mathematics of decibels.   
Decibels are added using the formula: 
dBsum = 10log10(10(SL1/10) + 10(SL2/10)
(SLx/10))
For example, 45.0 dB + 42.0 dB = 46.8 dB.   
Because of the nature of sound, noise and the environment, decibels are usually rounded 
to a whole value as 10th
difference in 2 decibels and usually only under controlled situations.   
The calculation methodology uses the following descriptors:
The angle between two radios is 60°.
The distance from the nearest radio (Radio 1) to the receiver (point A) is line segment A.   
The distances from Radio 2 or Radio 3 to Point A are designated as D. 
The radius of the circle (radio unit to center of pole) is r. 
The distance from the center of the circle/pole to the chord (straight line) between Radio 
2 and Radio 3 is B. 
The angle subtended by the radius and the chord is 30°.  
B = r(sin30).   
C = ½ chord length between Radios 2 and 3 = r(cos30°) or 14 in.
D = Sqrt[(A+r+B)2 + (C)2]
The total sound level from three radio units will be the decibel sum of the sound levels at 
A + D + D.   
The numerical values for mounting system are: 
Tilt Bracket 
r = 16.0
B = 8.0
C= 14.0
D is a function of A. 
657 of 682

--- page 658 ---
- 6 -
Example:
If A = 12 ,
dBA.  The sound level for Radios
2 and 3 are 43.3 dBA each.  The combined sound level is 54.3 dBA.  
D= Sqrt[(12+16+8)2 + (14)2]  = 38.6
A = 12
53.5 dBA 
DRadio 1 = 38.6
ound Level = 53.5 + 20log10(12/38.6) = 43.3
DRadio 2 = 38.6
53.5 + 20log10(12/38.6) = 43.3
Combined Sound Level = 53.5 dB + 43.3 dB + 43.3 dB, = 
10log10(10(53.5/10) +10(43.3/10)+10(43.3/10)) = 54.3 dB.  In terms of environmental noise, the
sound level is 54 dBA.
Again, reporting decibels in whole numbers is acceptable. 
Table I, below, provides the calculations of the distances from Radio 1 (nearest unit to the 
receiver) to result in a combined sound level of 50 dBA for compliance with the noise
standards of the City of San Mateo.   
Sound Level
Distance
dBA
(inches)
Radio Reference
6.0 Bels Sound Power
0
Radio Reference
53.5
12
Radio 1
49
21
Radio 2
42
47
Radio 3
42
47
Combined
50
Tilt Bracket Mount System
TABLE I
Ericsson 6705 Radio Cluster Noise Analysis
As shown in Table I, the minimum distance from the nearest radio to the receiver location 
in a tilt bracket mount system shall be 21 inches. The distance to the center of the pole 
would be this distance plus the radius, which equals approximately 37 inches or 3 1
658 of 682

--- page 659 ---
- 7 -
he
installation
of
the
3 adio
configuration
assemblies
analyzed in this
study at the minimum distances shown in Table I will result in sound levels
no higher than 50 dBA, which will be n compliance with the City
f
San
Mateo
Noise Ordinance standard for noise sensitive receivers.
If you need any additional information or would like an elaboration on this report, please 
.
Jeffrey K. Pack 
President
Attachments:  Appendix A 
659 of 682

--- page 660 ---
A-1 
APPENDIX A 
Ericsson 6705 Data Sheet 
 
 
660 of 682

--- page 661 ---
Operating Environment

The following is a list of values for the Streetmacro unit in normal operating
environment

Temperature range ~4@8°C through +55°C

Absolute humidity 8.26 g/m? through 48 g/m?

Acoustic Noise
The unit moy emit iow levels of acoustic noise during operation.

The acoustic noise depends on the ambient temperature.

Toble 6 Sound Power Level

Temperature (°C) Sound Power Level (Bel)
+55 =68

Vibration
This section describes the unit tolerance to vibrations.

The unit operates reliably during seismic activity a5 specified by test method TEC
66 068-2-57 Fi

Maximum level of RRS Se mi/'s* within ?—5 Hz for DR=2%
Frequency range 8.3—58 Hz
Time history signal VERTEQ I

The unit operates reliably during random vibration os specified by test method
TEC 68 866-2-64 Fh method 1

Random vibration frequency 2 Hz-288 Hz
Se astia

The unit operates reliably during shock a5 specified by test method IEC 68
@68-2-27 Ea.

A-2

661 of 682


--- page 662 ---
JEFFREY K. PACK 
ACOUSTICAL CONSULTANT 
Curriculum Vitae 
 
EDUCATION 
 
Berklee College of Music, Boston, Massachusetts, 1984 
 
 
Bachelor of Music; Professional Music 
 
 
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 1981 
 
 
Bachelor of Science; Geological Sciences 
 
 
West Valley College, Saratoga, California, 1979 
 
 
Associate in Science; Science and Mathematics 
 
EXPERIENCE 
7/81 to 
 
President and Principal Consultant 
 
Present 
 
 
Edward L. Pack Associates, Inc. 
 
 
 
San Jose, California 
Mr. Pack has experience in architectural, environmental, and industrial acoustics, including 
interior design of office buildings, hospitals, medical buildings, hotels, recording studios, 
auditoriums and residences, HVAC noise control, mechanical equipment enclosures, roadway 
and railroad noise barriers, transportation noise assessments and industrial facility noise control.  
Transportation noise assessments involve the analysis of automobile, truck, railroad and aircraft 
noise as they impact residential, commercial and industrial land uses.  His responsibilities are 
involved with both the administrative and technical aspects of Edward L. Pack Associates and 
his duties also include presentations at public hearings, expert witness testimony, conducting 
seminars in acoustics, directing and monitoring construction corrective work in residential and 
commercial buildings and the design and construction direction of noise enclosures for 
mechanical equipment.  Measurements, analyses, and evaluations are made to develop the 
specific recommendations required for the correction of noise and vibration problems. 
He has extensive experience in the field of interior acoustics associated with auditoriums, multi-
purpose rooms, gymnasiums, classrooms, churches, public meeting halls, TV and audio/visual 
recording studios, hospitals, and other acoustically critical spaces.  Mr. Pack is an expert in 
architectural acoustics designing noise isolating walls, windows and floor/ceilings, particularly in 
multi-family housing for compliance with State and local building codes.   
662 of 682

--- page 663 ---
Jeffrey K. Pack, (cont'd) 
5/86 to 
 
President 
 
5/94 
 
 
The Techtonics Company 
 
 
 
Sunnyvale, California 
Mr. Pack designed, developed, and manufactured acoustic and electronic drum triggering 
devices, acoustic stringed instrument transducers, including piezoelectric pick-ups for guitars, 
violins, violas, cellos and basses from inception through final shipping.  As President, duties 
included management of production personnel, purchasing, sales, marketing, and advertising.  
Retail stores and distributors carrying The Techtonics Company products are located worldwide. 
2/93 to 
 
Adjunct Professor 
 
3/94 
 
 
 
Cogswell Polytechnical College 
 
 
Cupertino, California 
Adjunct professor of acoustics, which included teaching noise control engineering, audio 
engineering, architectural acoustics, and sound reinforcement system design. 
7/84 to 
 
Owner  
12/87 
 
 
Mirage Music Technologies 
 
 
San Jose and Hermosa Beach, California 
Mr. Pack designed and constructed speaker cabinets, taught music, designed sound reinforcement 
systems, worked as a DJ for private and public events, worked as a performing musician.   
His prior experience includes teaching assistant for Oceanography 210 at USC, 4 years as private 
drum and percussion instructor, conducting seminars in acoustics and noise control, and in music 
education as the South Bay Area Alumni Representative for the Berklee College of Music.  Other 
engineering experience included geologic structure mapping, mineralogy, and geologic 
engineering. 
AFFILIATIONS 
Acoustical Society of America 
 
 
 
American Institute of Physics 
Audio Engineering Society 
 
 
 
National Council of Acoustical Consultants 
Sigma Gamma Epsilon Geological Society 
 
663 of 682

--- page 664 ---
Project Purpose and Technical Objectives 
 
664 of 682

--- page 665 ---
Crown Castle Fiber LLC 
Project Narrative 
 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
This Project Narrative is submitted to the City of San Mateo in support of its applications for the
installation of wireless telecommunications facilities pursuant to City of San Mateo Municipal 
Code Chapter 10 Article 18, Wireless telecommunications facilities within the public right-of- 
Way. 
a. Crown Castle 
 wireless carriers with the infrastructure they 
need to keep people connected and business running.  With approximately 40,000 towers and 
18,000 small cell nodes supported by approximately 60,000 miles of fiber, Crown Castle is the 
r of shared wireless infrastructure, with a significant presence in the top 
100 US markets.  
 
-of-the-art in wireless 
telecommunications network technology.  It is a low-profile telecommunications system capable 
of delivering wireless services to customers of multiple carriers such as Verizon, AT&T, Sprint, 
Metro PCS and T-
-scale, as individual 
SCN facilities can be attached to standard sign poles that take up little space in the public rights-
of-
signals, and wooden utility poles.  Crown Castle SCN therefore allows one aesthetically 
unobtrusive system to take the place of multiple antennas or macro-sites constructed by individual 
carriers -- a single, streamlined solution that diminishes the prospect of multiple carrier-
constructed antenna facilities servicing a given area.  Put another way, Crown Castle SCN permits 
many carriers to provide their services over one system with only a single series of vertical 
elements. 
b. The Proposed Project 
 
Crown Castle proposes developing its SCN network with approximately one-hundred and ninety-
seven new (197
San Mateo 
All proposed nodes qualify as Small Wireless Facilities as defined in 47 C.F.R § 1.6002(l).  
Specifically, this application proposes one antenna node submitted to the City of San Mateo for a 
Wireless Permit by the Department Public Works. Completion of the Project will provide needed 
wireless broadband and communications services and the addition of critical network capacity to 
throughout portions of the City of San Mateo 
97
665 of 682

--- page 666 ---
nodes comprising the SCN will utilize existing vertical elements in the ROW, including utility 
poles and city-owned Streetlights.   
 
Each SCN node receives an optical signal from a central hub and distributes the signal to the 
antenna nodes via fiber optic cable.  The optical signal is then propagated from the SCN nodes in 
the form of radio frequency transmissions.  Distribution of signal from the hub to the low-power, 
low-profile antenna nodes, allows carriers to offload service capacity and provide wireless 
communications and data services to areas otherwise difficult to reach with conventional wireless 
telecommunications facilities. 
 
By using existing streetlight, traffic signal poles, and utility pole attachments whenever possible, 
the Project seeks to reduce the addition of new vertical elements, thereby minimizing intrusions 
into the right-of-
 
ii. 
 
A majority of the proposed sites consist of the node units mounted directly to a streetlight pole 
with the attachment of antennas and radios in a shroud on the side of the pole. Fiber optic 
connections and power connections will be brought underground to these facilities. The total 
height of the pole mounted facilities, measured from grade level, is typically up to 
.  In addition, 
the nodes located on streetlights require an underground pull box containing fiber optic cable 
connection.  The fiber converters convert digitalized spectrum received from the hub into RF 
signals emitted from the node to the Service Area. 
 
II. 
APPLICABLE LEGAL STANDARDS.  
Crown Castle presents this analysis pursuant to the City of San Mateo Municipal Code. 
Specifically, this narrative demonstrates the demands and rationale that led to the selection of a 
particular location and design for the telecommunication facilities proposed herein. 
 
a. Applicable State Law. 
 
therefore have a special status under state law.  By virtue of the California Public Utilities 
1
 
The CPUC has issued a CPCN (attached as Exhibit D) authorizing Crown Castle to construct the 
as a CLEC gives rise to a vested right to use the ROW in the C
 
1 Pub. Util. Code, §§ 1001, 7901; 7901.1; see 
, 114 Cal. App. 4th 642, 
 
 
666 of 682

--- page 667 ---
along and upon any public road or highway, along or across any of the waters or lands within this 
necessary fixtures of their lines, in such manner and at such points as not to incommode the public 
2 The nature of the vested right was described by one court as 
follows: 
 
 
offer extended to telephone and telegraph companies to use the 
highways, which offer when accepted by the construction and 
maintenance of lines constitutes a binding contract based on adequate 
consideration, and that the vested right established thereby cannot be 
 
 
Thus, telephone companies have the right to use the public highways to install their facilities.3  
 
right to exercise 
reasonable control as to the time, place, and manner in which roads, highways, and waterways are 
or otherwise prevent Crown Castle from exerc
(Williams Communication v. City of Riverside, supra, 114 Cal.App.4th at p. 653.) 
 
is designed as a ROW system.  With respect to the siting and configuration of the Network, the 
rights afforded under PUC sections 7901 and 7901.1 apply.  Crown Castle reserves its rights under 
section 7901 and 7901.1, including, but not limited to, its right to challenge any approval process, 
 rights as a CLEC. 
Government Code section 50030 also applies to telephone corporations seeking to install their 
facilities in the public rights-of-way.  That section provides that a city cannot require payment for 
entry into 
4 Section 50030 constitutes a legislative determination that 
any fee or exaction that exceeds the cost of addressing actual impacts arising from the construction 
of a telephone network is unlawful because it fails to satisfy the nexus and rough proportionality 
requirements under the dual Supreme Court cases of 
, 
483 U.S. 825 (1987), and 
, 512 U.S. 374 (1994). 
 
 
2 Pub. Util. Code, § 7901. 
3 
, supra, 114 Cal.App.4th at p. 648 quoting 
 (1948) 32 Cal.2d 378, 384 [196 P.2d 773]. 
4 
, supra, 114 Cal.App.4th at p. 648. 
667 of 682

--- page 668 ---
Government Code section 65964.1 became effective on January 1, 2022. Pursuant to this 
provision, an application for a new wireless facility is deemed approved if: (a) the city --including 
a charter city -- or county fails to approve or disapprove the application within the time periods 
FCC Rcd 9088 (14) (60 days for collocation of small wireless facilities and 90 days for stand-alone 
small wireless facilities; 150 days for non-small wireless facilities), and (b) all public notices 
regarding the application have been provided. (Gov. Code, § 65964.1, subd. (a).) The new statute 
also contains an express finding that wireless telecommunications facilities are a matter of 
California Constitution. (Id., § 65964.1, subd. (e).) 
 
b. Applicable Federal Law. 
 
5 Sections 253 and 332 of the Telecom Act speak 
6 Section 
7 Section 253(a) provides, in 
relevant part:
No State or local statute or regulation, or other State or local legal 
requirement, may prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the 
ability of any entity to provide any interstate or intrastate 
telecommunications service. 47 U.S.C. § 253(a). 
 
Similarly, section 332(c)(7) states: 
 
The regulation of the placement, construction, and modification 
of personal wireless service facilities by any State or local 
government 
or 
instrumentality 
thereof
(I) 
shall 
not 
unreasonably discriminate among providers of functionally 
equivalent services; and (II) shall not prohibit or have the effect 
of prohibiting the provision of personal wireless services. 47 
U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(B)(i). 
 
 
5 
, 
Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order, WT Docket Nos. 17-79, 17- 84, FCC 18-133, ¶ 14 (rel. Sept. 27, 
m Act). 
6 
a type of telecommunications service (wireless). 
, 
Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order, WT Docket Nos. 17-79, 17-84, FCC 18-133, ¶ 34 (rel. Sept. 
 
7 
, at ¶15 (citing 
, 189 F.3d 1, 11 n.7 
(1st Cir.1999)). 
668 of 682

--- page 669 ---
Section 332 further provides as follows: 
 
A State or local government or instrumentality thereof shall act on 
any request for authorization to place, construct, or modify 
personal wireless service facilities within a reasonable period of 
time after the request is duly filed with such government or 
instrumentality, taking into account the nature and scope of such 
request. 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(B)(ii). 
 
Any decision by a state or local government or instrumentality 
thereof to deny a request to place, construct, or modify personal 
wireless service facilities shall be in writing and supported by 
substantial evidence contained in the written record. 47 U.S.C. § 
332(c)(7)(B)(iii). 
 
As noted above, the Telecom Act prohibits localities from taking actions (or not acting) that either 
that the proper standard for determining whether a state or local requirement has the effect of 
prohibiting service and violat
decision.8  Under that decision, a state or local law has 
covered service.9  This test is met not only when filling a coverage gap but also when densifying 
a wireless network, introducing new services or otherwise improving service capabilities
10 In
a state or local legal requirement could materially inhibit service in numerous 
ways
materially inhibiting the introduction of new services or the improvement of 
existing services. 11 
 
In addition to the above, other FCC enactments and policies also guide local governmental actions, 
including the following:  
(1) 
governments to act on applications for the siting of 
wireless telecommunications facilities.  The 
 
 
(2) 
 
8 
, at ¶¶ 10, 31.  
9 
, at ¶ 37. 
10 
 
11 
 
669 of 682

--- page 670 ---
during which local governments must act on applications for 
the siting of small wireless telecommunications facilities, 
restricted the fee rates jurisdictions may lawfully charge for 
small 
wireless 
telecommunications 
facilities, 
and 
Rule. Further, the FCC clarified that jurisdictions act solely 
within their regulatory capacity when dictating the terms of 
access to their public rights-of-way and instituted procedures 
for processing applications. The following year, in its 
decision in 
, No. 18-72689, 
(9th Cir. 2020), the Ninth Circuit Court confirmed all the 
preceding FCC findings.  
 
 
 
III. 
JUSTIFICATION 
As discussed more fully below, the Service Area described prior currently experiences a 
degradation in service due to capacity limitations in wireless telecommunications coverage.  To 
bolster this degradation in service and/or capacity, Crown Castle proposes small wireless facility 
nodes to support the degradation in this area. As a CLEC entitled to ROW access, Crown Castle 
construct its systems in the ROW. On that basis and during the network planning phase, Crown 
Castle examines locations potentially available for siting within the ROW.  The analysis below 
placement in the locations specified in the applications.  
 
a. 
Height of the Proposed Facilities. 
 
The antenna heights and locations of the Small Cell Site nodes were chosen to provide the 
minimum signal level needed to meet critical coverage and/or capacity needs in the Service Area.  
Despite the technical limitations of a low-profile system, Crown Castle seeks to maximize the 
coverage of each node location, since maximization of the node performance equates to a lower 
overall number of facilities for the Network.  Accordingly, each location was chosen to provide an 
effective relay of signal from the adjacent node and nearby base station, so that ubiquitous 
coverage and capacity of the minimum signal level is provided throughout the Service Area with 
the minimum number of nodes.   
b. 
Location of Proposed Facilities. 
 
The selected node locations maximize the RF coverage of the node and minimize 
interference/overlap with the other nodes of the system, resulting in a lower overall number of 
facilities for the Network and a less obstructive system.  Each node provides an effective relay of 
signal from the adjacent node, so that ubiquitous coverage is provided throughout the Service Area.  
Because each node is locationally dependent on the other nodes of the Network, moving a node 
670 of 682

--- page 671 ---
too far from its proposed location will result in an inability to meet coverage objectives and thereby 
impair the Network, rendering relocation technically infeasible.  In selecting node locations, 
Crown Castle also sought out use of existing utility, streetlight, and street sign pole sites that could 
serve as a potential host site for an alternative location.   
 
c. 
Small Wireless Facility Sites  
 
Apart from the siting considerations described above, Small Wireless Facilities are inherently 
unobtrusive by design.  Small Wireless Facilities were developed as a smaller-scale solution to, 
and in support of, the larger macro-site or cell tower.  It therefore represents a significant 
technological advance in the development of smaller profile wireless transmission devices.  As 
devices shrink in size, they also, necessarily, shrink in power.  Accordingly, more facilities are 
needed, and such facilities must be located closer to the user.  The proposed nodes are designed to 
be smaller scale and lower power to allow them to integrate more easily into their surroundings.  
 
The proposed facilities combine a smaller scale product with state-of-the-art technology that 
allows for multiple carriers to provide service from the node.  The nodes are designed to blend into 
the existing elements of the ROW.  They feature narrow-profile poles and minimal equipment.  
network of supports coverage by offloading capacity from the existing surrounding (macro) sites 
while also reducing impact to the ROW in the following manner: 
(1) 
Crown Castle Small Cell Site node utilizes the latest in 
wireless infrastructure technology, incorporating smaller, 
low-power facilities instead of using larger, more obtrusive 
cell towers; 
 
(2) 
Crown Castle Small Cell Site node utilizes the ROW, 
thereby avoiding intrusions into private property or 
undeveloped sensitive resource areas; 
 
(3) 
Crown Castle Small Cell Site allows for collocation by 
multiple carriers, thereby avoiding proliferation of nodes; 
 
(4) 
Crown Castle Small Cell site strikes a balance between 
antenna height, capacity and coverage in order to minimize 
visual impacts;  
 
(5) 
Crown Castle Small Cell Site carefully spaces the nodes to 
effectively relay signal with a minimum number of node 
locations; and 
 
(6) 
Crown Castle Small Cell Site seeks to utilize existing 
vertical elements in the ROW, such as utility poles and street 
light poles, thereby minimizing the net number of vertical 
intrusions in the ROW. 
d.  
Health and Safety/FCC Compliance. 
 
671 of 682

--- page 672 ---
The FCC has preempted the field of compliance with RF emission standards.  Moreover, section 
47 U.S.C. 332(c)(7)(B)(iv) preempts local and state governments from regulating the siting of 
wireless telecommunications facilities on the basis of the perceived health effects of RF emissions.  
Nevertheless, the Network, and all equipment associated with the Network, complies with all 
applicable FCC RF emission standards is enclosed with the application and marked as Attachment 
07 - RF Compliance Report  
 
e. 
Selection Criteria for Each Node Site. 
 
Given the low profile of the nodes, and the resultant limitations of such a low-profile system, 
Crown Castle seeks to maximize capacity off load coverage of each node location because 
maximization of the node coverage equates to a lower overall number of facilities for the network 
and a less incursive system.  Each node is locationally dependent on the other nodes of the 
Network.  Accordingly, each location was specifically chosen to provide an effective relay of 
signal from the adjacent node, so that ubiquitous coverage is provided throughout the Service Area 
with the least number of nodes.  To move a node too far from its proposed location will therefore 
objectives as the node is unable to properly propagate its signal to the other nodes within the larger 
Network. The further a node is moved from its proposed location, the more the signal from that 
node will weaken. The technical limitations of small wireless facilities may result in limited viable 
options for their placement, as relocating a node by more than 50 feet from the proposed location 
materially impairs its technical capability.  
 
While Crown Castle is able to install new poles to achieve its RF capacity offload and coverage 
location. Crown Castle also considers aesthetic impacts, making the strategic decision to minimize 
the installation of new poles, where feasible, by installing nodes on existing vertical elements, 
including streetlights and wooden utility poles.  By approaching a network design in this matter, 
Crown Castle limits proliferation of verticalities in the public ROW.  Crown Castle considers the 
following factors during the site selection process: 
(1) 
Technical feasibility;  
 
(2) 
Ability to utilize existing vertical elements;  
 
(3) 
Ability to offload and support capacity demands, meet RF          
            objectives; and  
 
(4) 
Minimization of visibility/aesthetic impacts.   
 
 
f. 
Selection Criteria for Node Site Location.  
Each node of the Network is necessary to support a degradation of service due to overload on the 
system.  The need to maintain minimum quality of service to a level that allows adequate in-
building coverage and to address growing capacity demands is underscored by the greater numbers 
672 of 682

--- page 673 ---
of customers dropping their landlines and relying solely on wireless telecommunications for their 
phone service.  Additionally: 
(1) 
In a recent international study, the United States dropped to 
fifteenth in the world in broadband penetration, well behind 
South Korea, Japan, the Netherlands and France.12 
 
(2) 
40 percent of all American homes are now wireless only.13 
 
(3) 
More and more civic leaders and emergency response 
personnel cite lack of a robust wireless network as a growing 
public safety risk.  The number of 911 calls placed by people 
using wireless phones has significantly increased in recent 
years.  It is estimated that about 70 percent of 911 calls are 
placed from wireless phones, and that percentage is 
growing.14 
 
(4) 
Data demand from new smartphones and tablets is leading 
to a critical deficit in spectrum, requiring more wireless 
antennas and infrastructure.  According to a 2011 report, 
wireless data traffic was 110 percent higher than in the last 
half of 2010.  Similarly, AT&T reports that its wireless data 
volumes have increased 30-fold since the introduction of the 
iPhone.15 
 
(5) 
Wireless data traffic grew by a factor of 20 between 2010 
and 2015.16 
As more Americans depend on wireless communications technologies and smartphone, reliable 
network capacity and maintaining high level in-building service coverage is and will continue to
be critical.  The San Mateo Service Area is currently experiencing insufficient coverage and/or 
capacity.  Users in the Service Area therefore would experience an intolerably high percentage of 
blocked and dropped calls and/or slow data speeds for outside use, with a commensurate decline 
in signal strength as one moves toward the inside of existing buildings and homes.  Crown Castle 
Small Cell Site nodes seek to provide sufficient signal strength to ensure not only adequate signal 
for mobile and outdoor users, but further support for reliable in-building coverage for all those 
customers who may seek to abandon their home landlines and sufficient capacity to address new 
data demands from smartphones and tablets.  Wireless customers must be able to count on a level 
of service commensurate with that provided by landlines.   
 
g. Additional Information Provided Regarding Drive Tests-NOIs 
 
 
12 Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Directorate for Science, Technology, and 
 
13 Federal Communications Commission (April 2013). 
14 Federal Communications Commission (2013) http://www.fcc.gov/guides/wireless-911-services. 
Executive Office of the President Council of Economic Advisors (White House, Feb. 2012) at 2-6. 
15 
.  
16 
. 
673 of 682

--- page 674 ---
Drive test data, which is requested to show the area of coverage for the proposed site, is not relevant 
for a small wireless facility that is needed to address capacity constraints and network densification 
needs as opposed to traditional coverage gaps. Crown Castle did not conduct in-field drive tests
and is unable to provide any drive test results reflecting any gaps in coverage or coverage are, as 
addressing a coverage gap is not a technical objective of the project at hand. We are instead 
improving existing service and introducing the 5G spectrum, a new service, to the San Mateo area.
Small Cells are needed to densify the overall network and Crown Castle is targeting the Public 
Right of Way where 5G is not yet available. Please be advised that pursuant to the FCC, a provider 
enhancing, densifying, expanding, or introducing new services need not show a significant gap in 
order to show necessity for its facilities
it may instead use other, more relevant means of showing 
its introduction of new or improvement of existing services.17 The instant narrative and other 
application materials show Crown Castle is introducing new and improving existing services in 
the San Mateo area. 
 
 
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
 
Crown Castle respectfully presents its Wireless Permit applications for wireless communications 
questions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17 
, at ¶ 37. 
674 of 682

--- page 675 ---
V. 
GEOGRAPHIC MAP OF COVERAGE IMPROVEMENT WITH NEW SERVICE 
 
 
 
COVERAGE WITH NEW SITE INSTALLED AT LOCATION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
675 of 682

--- page 676 ---
VI. 
EXISTING AND PROPOSED NETWORK     
 
 
 
 
676 of 682

--- page 677 ---
Alternative Site Analysis 
 
677 of 682

--- page 678 ---
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
March 2023
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
October 2023
1
City of San Mateo
Primary Candidate for Trousdale
Legend
Proposed Node
Node
Latitude
Longitude
Structure Type
Address
Zoning district designation
CA_SF_SANMATEO_210M2
37.565985
-122.349202
Wood Pole
535 Clark Dr, San Mateo, CA 94402
678 of 682

--- page 679 ---
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
March 2023
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
October 2023
2
Trousdale
Primary and Alternate Candidates for CA_SF_SANMATEO_210M2
•
28 Sites Evaluated
•
All other sites eliminated due to being less preferable locations, GO95 restrictions, not following PG&E 
standards and guidelines, not meeting network coverage and capacity, or deemed more intrusive due 
to environmental and visual impacts.
Legend
Proposed Node
Wood Pole 
500ft Radius
679 of 682

--- page 680 ---
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
March 2023
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
October 2023
3
Trousdale
Primary and Alternative Candidates for CA_SF_SANMATEO_210M2
Node
Latitude
Longitude
Structure Type
Address
Zoning district 
designation
Reason for Being Acceptable or Unacceptable
CA_SF_SANMATEO_210M1
37.565985
-122.349202
Wood Pole
535 Clark Dr, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will meet the coverage objective.
ALT 01
37.566772
-122.348118
Wood Pole
531 Occidental Ave, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole has a transformer, existing equipment, fuse switches and is within 4ft of the residential driveways violating PG&E 
standards.  Also, this ALT does not meet our RF requirements and is located ~426ft away from our primary target. 
ALT 02
37.564703
-122.348694
Wood Pole
432 Midway Ave, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole is within 4ft of residential driveway violating PG&E standards. Also, this ALT does not meet our RF requirements 
and is located ~490ft away from our primary target. 
ALT 03
37.564936
-122.348893
Wood Pole
439 Midway Ave, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole is within 4ft of residential driveway and has primary riser violating PG&E standards. Also, this ALT does not meet 
our RF requirements and is located ~392ft away from our primary target. 
ALT 04
37.564982
-122.348785
Wood Pole
450 Midway Ave, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because pole is within 4ft of residential driveway violating PG&E standards & antenna will be blocked by tree branches. Tree 
interference will decrease antenna signal. Also, this ALT does not meet our RF requirements and is located ~385ft away from our primary target. 
ALT 05
37.565284
-122.349077
Wood Pole
469 Midway Ave, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole has a transformer and fuse switches violating PG&E standards. Also, this ALT does not meet our RF requirements 
and is located ~258ft away from our primary target. 
ALT 06
37.565346
-122.34899
Wood Pole
464 Midway Ave, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole is within 4ft of residential driveway violating PG&E standards. Also, this ALT does not meet our RF requirements 
and is located ~241ft away from our primary target. 
ALT 07
37.565986
-122.34959
Wood Pole
Across 539 Edgewood Rd, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the antenna will be blocked by tree branches. Tree interference will cause a decrease in antenna signal. No space on pole.
ALT 08
37.566069
-122.349758
Wood Pole
539 Edgewood Rd, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole is within 4ft of residential driveway and has fuse switches violating PG&E standards. 
ALT 09
37.56653
-122.349617
Wood Pole
554 Edgewood Rd, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because pole is within 4ft of residential driveway violating PG&E standards & antenna will be blocked by tree branches. Tree 
interference will decrease antenna signal. Also, this ALT does not meet our RF requirements and is located ~234ft away from our primary target. 
ALT 10
37.566553
-122.34973
Wood Pole
565 Edgewood Rd, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole has a transformer and fuse switches violating PG&E standards. Also, this ALT does not meet our RF requirements 
and is located ~257ft away from our primary target. 
ALT 11
37.56686
-122.349829
Wood Pole
585 Edgewood Rd, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole is within 4ft of residential driveway violating PG&E standards. Also, this ALT does not meet our RF requirements 
and is located ~367ft away from our primary target. 
ALT 12
37.566956
-122.349687
Wood Pole
533 Warren Rd, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole is within 4ft of residential driveway violating PG&E standards. Also, this ALT does not meet our RF requirements 
and is located ~381ft away from our primary target. 
ALT 13
37.56578
-122.349809
Wood Pole
540 Edgewood Rd, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the guy wires on the pole lands in a private property violating PG&E standards.
680 of 682

--- page 681 ---
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
March 2023
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
October 2023
4
Trousdale
Primary and Alternative Candidates for CA_SF_SANMATEO_210M2
Node
Latitude
Longitude
Structure Type
Address
Zoning district 
designation
Reason for Being Acceptable or Unacceptable
ALT 14
37.565451
-122.350126
Wood Pole
528 Edgewood Rd, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole has a transformer and fuse switches violating PG&E standards. Also, this ALT does not meet our RF requirements 
and is located ~335ft away from our primary target. 
ALT 15
37.565489
-122.350224
Wood Pole
501 Edgewood Rd, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole is too far away from our targeted coverage and capacity relief area. 5G signal travels ~200ft with line of site based 
on the surroundings. This ALT does not meet our RF requirements and is located  ~348ft away from our primary target.
ALT 16
37.565247
-122.350238
Wood Pole
456 Hillcrest Rd, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because pole is within 4ft of residential driveway, has fuse switches violating PG&E standards & antenna will be blocked by tree 
branches. Tree interference will decrease antenna signal. Also, this ALT does not meet our RF requirements & is located ~406ft away from our 
primary target. 
ALT 17
37.565144
-122.350517
Wood Pole
488 Edgewood Rd, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole has an existing equipment, fuse switches and primary power capacitor violating PG&E standards. Also, this ALT 
does not meet our RF requirements and is located ~491ft away from our primary target. 
ALT 18
37.564835
-122.350135
Wood Pole
452 Hillcrest Rd, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole has a transformer and fuse switches violating PG&E standards. Also, this ALT does not meet our RF requirements 
and is located ~500ft away from our primary target. 
ALT 19
37.567113
-122.348253
Wood Pole
537 Occidental Ave, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole has a transformer and fuse switches violating PG&E standards. Also, this ALT does not meet our RF requirements 
and is located ~495ft away from our primary target. 
ALT 20
37.565639
-122.349333
Wood Pole
540 Edgewood Rd (On Midway Ave), San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Would be acceptable but Crown Castle believes the primary candidate is better option to meet the RF coverage and capacity criteria.
ALT 21
37.565996
-122.348706
Wood Pole
521 Clark Dr, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole has a transformer and fuse switches violating PG&E standards and the antenna will be blocked by tree branches. 
Tree interference will cause a decrease in antenna signal.
ALT 22
37.566081
-122.348744
Wood Pole
512 Clark Dr, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole is within 4ft of residential driveway violating PG&E standards and the antenna will be blocked by tree branches. 
Tree interference will cause a decrease in antenna signal.
ALT 23
37.565888
-122.348232
Wood Pole
509 Clark Dr, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole has an existing equipment and disconnect switch violating PG&E standards. Also, this ALT does not meet our RF 
requirements and is located ~282ft away from our primary target. 
ALT 24
37.565894
-122.347826
Wood Pole
443 Occidental Ave, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole is too far away from our targeted coverage and capacity relief area. 5G signal travels ~200ft with line of site based 
on the surroundings. This ALT does not meet our RF requirements and is located  ~399ft away from our primary target.
ALT 25
37.566102
-122.347869
Wood Pole
500 Clark Dr (On Occidental Ave), San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole is too far away from our targeted coverage and capacity relief area. 5G signal travels ~200ft with line of site based 
on the surroundings. This ALT does not meet our RF requirements and is located  ~388ft away from our primary target.
681 of 682

--- page 682 ---
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
March 2023
PROPRIETARY & CONFIDENTIAL
|  PAGE
October 2023
5
Trousdale
Primary and Alternative Candidates for CA_SF_SANMATEO_210M2
Node
Latitude
Longitude
Structure Type
Address
Zoning district 
designation
Reason for Being Acceptable or Unacceptable
ALT 26
37.566365
-122.347959
Wood Pole
515 Occidental Ave, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole is within 4ft of residential driveway violating PG&E standards. Also, this ALT does not meet our RF requirements and 
is located ~384ft away from our primary target. 
ALT 27
37.565497
-122.347648
Wood Pole
435 Occidental Ave, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole has a secondary riser and fuse switches violating PG&E standards. Also, this ALT does not meet our RF 
requirements and is located ~482ft away from our primary target. 
ALT 28
37.567107
-122.349967
Wood Pole
635 Edgewood Rd, San Mateo, CA 94402
R1A
Will not work because the pole is too far away from our targeted coverage and capacity relief area. 5G signal travels ~200ft with line of site based on 
the surroundings. This ALT does not meet our RF requirements and is located  ~466ft away from our primary target.
682 of 682