source: packet.pdf
sha256: 97785b1f469cf163c9f03646b936caf6378bf7f815633ca321c2676f65e93877
pages: 16
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Audit Committee
March 11, 2021
6:00 PM
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM
GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: Thursday, March 11, 2021
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Enter Conference ID: 886 3962 4427 Passcode: 636581
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
NEW BUSINESS
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
1.
Independent Audit Services – Agreement
Recommend that the City Council authorize the Finance Director to execute an agreement with The Pun Group
LLP for independent audit services in substantially the form presented.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: rlee@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by
default. When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the
appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the
item of interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and
provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to
participate in this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org.
1 of 16

--- page 2 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4422
TO:
City Council Audit Committee
FROM:
Rich Lee
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
March 11, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Independent Audit Services – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Recommend that the City Council authorize the Finance Director to execute an agreement with The Pun Group LLP for 
independent audit services in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo (City) released a Request for Proposals (RFP) for audit services on December 1, 2020 and sent direct 
solicitations to eight professional Certified Public Accountant (CPA) firms that provide audit services to local government 
entities. The City received five responses to the RFP. An internal evaluation panel consisting of the Finance Director, 
Accounting Manager, and two Senior Accountants conducted an initial review of the proposals based on criteria 
established in the RFP, including responsiveness to the RFP, proposed audit procedures, and firm qualifications and 
experience to identify the top three firms to invite to the interview process. 
Interviews were conducted on January 26, 2021 with the top three firms. The evaluation panel was expanded to include 
the Debt & Treasury Manager and the acting Budget Manager for the interviews. Based on the evaluation panel scores, 
additional due diligence was conducted with reference checks and follow up interviews with the top two CPA firms. Based 
on the responses during the follow up interview, responses from reference municipalities, and evaluation panel scores, 
staff recommends The Pun Group as the preferred CPA firm. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The total cost for the scope of audit services for the City is as follows for the five year term: 
Fiscal year (FY) 2020-21: $67,000.00; 
FY 2021-22: $68,340.00; 
FY 2022-23: $69,706.80 
FY 2023-24: $71,100.93
FY 2024-25: $72,522.95 
The San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department and San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority will be executing 
separate agreements with The Pun Group, thus their costs are excluded from the above amounts.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
2 of 16

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
3 of 16

--- page 4 ---
Professional Services
Page 1 of 13
Rev 5/20
AGREEMENT WITH THE PUN GROUP LLP
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES
FOR 
INDEPENDENT AUDIT SERVICES
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and THE PUN GROUP LLP, a limited liability partnership (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 
2121 North California Blvd. Suite 290, Walnut Creek, CA 94596.
RECITALS:
A.  CITY desires certain independent audit services hereinafter described.
B.  CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these independent audit services by 
reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT has offered 
to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work.
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement.
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT.
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator.
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
4 of 16

--- page 5 ---
Professional Services
Page 2 of 13
Rev 5/20
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work.
SECTION 4 - TERM
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on May 1, 2021 and be 
completed on or about December 31, 2025.
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
of $67,000 for FY 2020-21, $68,340 for FY 2021-22, $69,706.80 for FY 2022-23, $71,100.93 for FY 2023-
24, and $72,522.95 for FY 2024-25, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached 
and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice.
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation.
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not.
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release.
5 of 16

--- page 6 ---
Professional Services
Page 3 of 13
Rev 5/20
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement.
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONSULTANT’s performance of this Agreement, except those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement.
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY.
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL
SKILL OF CONSULTANT
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation.
6 of 16

--- page 7 ---
Professional Services
Page 4 of 13
Rev 5/20
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance.
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect.
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5,000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5,000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
7 of 16

--- page 8 ---
Professional Services
Page 5 of 13
Rev 5/20
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
SECTION 21 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Rich Lee
City of San Mateo
330 W 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
To CONSULTANT:
The Pun Group LLP
Attn:  Kenneth Pun
2121 North California Blvd., Suite 290
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT.
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party.
8 of 16

--- page 9 ---
Professional Services
Page 6 of 13
Rev 5/20
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
9 of 16

--- page 10 ---
Professional Services
Page 7 of 13
Rev 5/20
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and THE PUN GROUP LLP have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Rich Lee
Finance Director
Kenneth Pun 
Its Authorized Agent
Founder & Managing Partner
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below.
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Scope of Services
Exhibit B:
Fee Rates
Exhibit C:
Insurance Requirements
10 of 16

--- page 11 ---
Professional Services
Page 8 of 13
Rev 5/20
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES
The Firm will perform Error! Reference source not found. and issue opinions on the Error! Reference source 
not found.’s financial statements.  These audits are to be completed in accordance with all applicable and generally 
accepted auditing standards, including, but not limited to, the following:

Generally accepted auditing standards as set forth by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants 
(AICPA).

US General Accounting Office’s (GAO) Standard for Audit of Governmental Organizations, Programs, 
Activities, and Functions.

Local Governments and Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) Pronouncements.

The standards applicable to financial audits contained in the most current versionof 
the 
Generally 
Accepted Government Auditing Standards (Yellow Book), issued by the Comptroller General of the United 
States.

The provisions of the Single Audit Act as amended in 1996.

The provisions of the US Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Uniform Guidance (formerly known as 
Circular A-133), Audits of State and Local Governments and Non-profit Organizations, and the Uniform 
Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards.
The Firm will perform the following services:

City’s Comprehensive Annual Financial Report;

Successor Agency to the City of San Mateo Redevelopment Agency (Successor Agency) financial 
statements;

Component unit audit of the San Mateo Joint Powers Public Financing Authority;

Single audit and report in conformance with OMB Circular A-133;

South Bayfront Levy Assessment District audit and report;

Agreed-Upon Procedures applied to Gann Appropriations Limit Schedule;

Measure A Funds for Local Transportation Purposes audit and compliance report;

Measure W Fund Schedule of Receipts and Disbursement audit and compliance report;

Transportation Development Act (TDA) Fund Financial Statements and Independent Auditor’s Report;
GFOA Award Program: The Pun Group LLP realizes the importance of maintaining the Certificate for Excellence in 
Financial Reporting from the GFOA. Our professionals are exceptionally well qualified in assisting governments 
with obtaining and maintaining their certificates.
The Firm’s commitment and involvement in the development of auditing and accounting standards can be shown 
in our active participation in the GFOA’s financial statements certificate programs. 100% of our current clients who 
submitted their Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR) to the GFOA received these awards. 
Also, two of our senior partners, Mr. Gary Caporicci and Mr. John F. Georger, are members of the Government 
Finance Officers Association and participate on the GFOA Special Review Committee.  
11 of 16

--- page 12 ---
Professional Services
Page 9 of 13
Rev 5/20
Deliverables: Upon completion of the services, the following reports will be delivered to the City:
City Financial Statements* – Opinion .....................................................electronic copy and 30 printed copies
Authority Financial Statements – Opinion...............................................electronic copy and 15 printed copies
Single Audit...............................................................................................electronic copy and 5 printed copies
TDA Fund .................................................................................................electronic copy and 5 printed copies
Measure A ................................................................................................electronic copy and 5 printed copies
South Bayfront Levee Assessment District...............................................electronic copy and 5 printed copies
GANN Limit...............................................................................................electronic copy and 5 printed copies
Measure S ................................................................................................electronic copy and 5 printed copies
*At the option of the City, the Firm may be requested to prepare the financial statements, schedules, and 
accompanying notes to the financial statements.  If prepared by the Firm, an electronic copy and 30 printed copies 
will be provided. 
Attendance at Meetings and Hearings: The engagement team will participate in as many meetings with staff as 
needed to perform the work scope tasks, to present the audit plan prior to beginning fieldwork, and to discuss the 
draft audit reports.  The team will attend to public meetings to present and discuss its findings and 
recommendations.  Once all issues of discussion are resolved, the completed CAFR, Single Audit report (if 
applicable), and other reports will be delivered to the Error! Reference source not found., according to agreed-
upon schedule.  In addition, the engagement team will participate on the required “exit conferences” at the 
conclusion of interim and fieldwork for each fiscal year of the audit engagement.  They will be available for separate 
exit conferences with the City Manager or designated representatives, if needed/requested. 
Proposed Audit Adjustments:  All proposed adjusting journal entries by the Firm will be discussed and explained 
in a timely manner with the designated Finance Department personnel. Such proposed adjustments will be in a 
format that shows the lowest level of posting detail needed for data entry in the general ledger systems.
Supplemental Reports, Audits, or Agreed-Upon Procedures:  Other services, such as agreed-upon procedures, 
may be deemed necessary. These services will be performed at agreed-upon rates and will be added in a written 
agreement before commencing audit work.  The Firm and the Error! Reference source not found. will discuss 
and approve the scope and associated costs of these tasks.
Advice and Consultation: Will be provided throughout the year on matters relating to accounting and financial 
reporting.  Such services do not include any task that entails significant research or a formal report.
GASB Implementation: The Firm will provide technical assistance and training in the implementation of applicable 
GASB pronouncements not yet in effect.  We have a dedicated partner, Mr. Gary Caporicci, who will be responsible 
for providing advice and consultation for the implementation of these new standards.  The Firm will advise the Error! 
Reference source not found. on the applicability of accounting and reporting standards and other accounting 
issues and provide guidance on for new note disclosures, GASB implementations, and other reporting 
requirements.  We will also provide training, resources, and information on topics relevant to the Error! Reference 
source not found.’s financial reporting and operations.
Report of all Irregularities and Illegal Acts: The Firm will make an immediate written report of all irregularities 
and illegal acts or indications of illegal actions of which they become aware of.
The engagement team will also make all communications to the Error! Reference source not found. required by 
the audits standards under which the engagement is performed. Those communications include, but are not limited 
to:
a)
The auditor’s responsibility under generally accepted auditing standards.
b)
Significant accounting policies.
c)
Management judgment and accounting estimates.
d)
Significant audit adjustments.
e)
Other information in documents containing audited financial statements.
f)
Disagreements with management.
g)
Management consultation with other accountants.
12 of 16

--- page 13 ---
Professional Services
Page 10 of 13
Rev 5/20
h)
Major issues discussed with management prior to retention.
i)
Difficulties encountered in performing the audit.
13 of 16

--- page 14 ---
Professional Services
Page 11 of 13
Rev 5/20
EXHIBIT B
FEE RATES
The fees for professional auditing services for five (5) fiscal years beginning with fiscal year ending June 
30, 2021 are as follows:
FY 2020-2021
FY 2021-2022
FY 2022-2023
FY 2023-2024
FY 2024-2025
Basic City Audit/CAFR 
50,000.00
$        
51,000.00
52,020.00
53,060.40
54,121.61
Single Audit1
5,000.00
5,100.00
5,202.00
5,306.04
5,412.16
TDA Fund
3,000.00
3,060.00
3,121.20
3,183.62
3,247.30
Measure A
2,000.00
2,040.00
2,080.80
2,122.42
2,164.86
S. Bayfront Levee AD
3,000.00
3,060.00
3,121.20
3,183.62
3,247.30
GANN Report
500.00
510.00
520.20
530.60
541.22
Measure S - AUP
1,500.00
1,530.00
1,560.60
1,591.81
1,623.65
Measure W
2,000.00
2,040.00
2,080.80
2,122.42
2,164.86
Printing of All Reports
Included
Included
Included
Included
Included
Total
67,000.00
$        
68,340.00
$        
69,706.80
$        
71,100.94
$        
72,522.95
$        
(1)
Single Audit fees based on 1 (one) major program.  The fee to audit additional major programs will be $5,000 
each. The number of programs determined to be “major” will be based on OMB Uniform Guidance.  The 
Engagement Team will discuss this with the Error! Reference source not found.’s Management before 
starting Single Audit work.
14 of 16

--- page 15 ---
Professional Services
Page 12 of 13
Rev 5/20
EXHIBIT C
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease. 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
15 of 16

--- page 16 ---
Professional Services
Page 13 of 13
Rev 5/20
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City.
Waiver of Subrogation
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.  
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City.
Verification of Coverage
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
16 of 16