source: packet.pdf
sha256: 02624c205ff25e103028023ba42c0040b2c307bf1ef7cd5646af73d0b362792a
pages: 10
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commission
August 10, 2022
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Clifford Robbins, Chair
Susan Rowinski, Vice Chair
Kimiko Narita
Adam Loraine
AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: August 10, 2022
Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Webinar ID: 894 3693 5965
Passcode: 129885
The Sustainability and Infrastructure meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission meeting of July 13, 2022.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to Speak"
form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be referred to
staff for further review.
OLD BUSINESS
2.
Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects Update
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, acting as the City of San Mateo's Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory
Committee, receive an update on bicycle and pedestrian projects.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1 of 10

--- page 2 ---
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Commission meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting
Send comments to: SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Public Work’s Office at (650) 522-7300 or publicworks@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 10

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
Account Number: 
File ID: 22-6505
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
August 10, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission meeting of July 13, 2022.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes of the July 13, 2022 meeting
3 of 10

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission  
July 13, 2022 
7:00 PM 
 
City Hall Council Chamber 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS  
Clifford Robbins, Chair  
Susan Rowinski, Vice Chair 
Adam Loraine 
Kimiko Narita 
Vacant 
MINUTES 
CALL TO ORDER – This meeting is being held pursuant to the Governor’s Executive Orders which suspend 
certain requirements of the Brown Act. 
 
This meeting was held pursuant to authorization from Government Code 54943(b)(3) / AB361 (2021) in which 
Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to participate virtually due to the Covid-19 health 
emergency. 
 
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call 
 
Present:  Chair Loraine, Commissioners Robbins, Narita, and Rowinski.  
 
CEREMONIAL 
  
1. Election of Chair and Vice Chair 
Motion to elect Commissioner Robbins Chair.  Motion passed 4-0. 
 
Moved:   Rowinski, Seconded: Narita  
Ayes:     4 – Rowinski, Narita, Robbins, and Loraine 
Noes:     None 
 
Motion to elect Commissioner Rowinski Vice Chair.  Motion passed 4-0. 
Moved:      Robbins, Seconded:  Narita 
Ayes:     4 – Rowinski, Narita, Robbins, and Loraine 
Noes:     None 
 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
  
2. Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes - Approval  
 
Motion made to approve the minutes of May 11, 2022.  Motion passed 4-0. 
Moved:   Rowinski, Seconded: Loraine  
Ayes:       4 - Robbins, Narita, Rowinski, and Loraine 
Noes:       None 
4 of 10

--- page 5 ---
PUBLIC COMMENT - No public comment 
 
NEW BUSINESS  
 
3. Rail Corridor Transportation Management Association (TMA) Annual Report 
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner and Paul Krupka from Krupka Consulting, provided a 
presentation to the Commission to receive an update on the Rail Corridor TMA Report and make a motion to 
recommend City Council acceptance of this report. John Ford, Mike Wiley, and Sarah Etheridge from the TMA 
were also available to answer questions. 
 
Commissioners asked questions of staff. 
 
Public Comment.  Following members of the public spoke to the item:  Raayan Mohtashemi, John Ford, and 
Mike Wiley 
 
Motion made to recommend City Council acceptance of this report.  Motion passed 4-0. 
Moved:     Robbins, Seconded: Narita 
Ayes:       4 - Robbins, Narita, Rowinski, and Loraine 
Noes:       None 
 
4. Sustainability-Related Amendments to the 2022 Building Code 
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst, provided a presentation to the Commission and asked for feedback on 
potential amendments to the 2022 Building Code for existing buildings and new construction related to building 
electrification.  Blake Herrschaft from Peninsula Clean Energy was also available to answer questions. 
 
Commissioners asked questions of staff. 
 
Public Comment.  Following members of the public spoke to the item:  Bruce Naegel, Jared Johnson, Diane 
Bailey, Celine Heck, Gary Trott, Jacob Reed, Alygrah, Alan Mattlage, Nancy Schneider, Belinda Chlouber, 
Raayan Mohtashemi, Anjuli Mishra, Tom Kabat, Michelle Hudson, Mary Rose LeBaron, Vivienne Scott, Claire 
Shintani (Harp), Alex Wagonfeld, Robert Whitehair, Maya Perkash, Diane Bailey, Ken Abreun, Robert Gould, 
Dashiell Leeds, and Rosie Chen. 
 
No motion needed for this item, but commissioners provided feedback on reach code options. All commissioners 
supported the new construction all-electric requirements and language for exceptions. Some commissioners also 
supported adding exception language to allow fossil gas use for space conditioning in buildings with laboratory 
biotechnology use.  Commissioners provided mixed feedback on the following existing building measures: 
1) Panel capacity at time of panel upgrade/replacement 
2) Outlets at time of kitchen/laundry renovation 
3) Heat pump AC 
4A) Pool heaters 
4B) Pool and outdoor equipment 
5A) Heat pump water heaters during all water heater replacements 
5B) Heat pump water heaters during major renovation 
 
Chair Robbins supported measures 1, 2, and 4A/4B and requested that the City look to expand measure 2 to 
require electric appliance installation; Commissioner Rowinski supported measures 1, 2, and 4A/4B; 
5 of 10

--- page 6 ---
Commissioner Narita supported measures 1, 2, 3, 4A/4B and 5B; and Commissioner Loraine supported measures 
1, 2, 3, 4A/4B and 5B.  
 
Commissioners emphasized the importance of rebates/incentives to address the economic impacts to community 
members. Commissioners requested staff explore decarbonization strategies beyond reach codes including end-
of-flow date, time-of-sale policies, commercial benchmarking ordinances, incentives, financing, and other 
approaches to address existing buildings to support an equitable transition to electric equipment.  
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENT FROM COMMISSIONER AND STAFF 
• Assistant City Manager, Kleinbaum informed the Commission that interviews for commission vacancy 
will be held the latter part of the month with the new commissioner on board for September 8 meeting. 
• Several commissioners expressed thanks and appreciation to Commissioner Reyes for his past eight years 
on the Sustainability Commission and the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission.  
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Adjourn:  10:45pm 
 
Agendas and background material are posted on the City’s website  www.cityofsanmateo.org 
at least 72 hours preceding each Commission meeting.  Any supplemental material distributed to Commissioners after the posting of 
the agenda will be available for public review at City Hall, City Manager’s office. 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this 
meeting may contact the Public Works Department at (650) 522-7300.  Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the city to 
make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting. 
 
6 of 10

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 22-6531
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
August 10, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, acting as the City of San Mateo's Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory 
Committee, receive an update on bicycle and pedestrian projects. 
BACKGROUND:
Staff will present brief updates on the pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure projects and planning efforts. 
Infrastructure Projects 
Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor: Staff was awarded funds by the California Transportation Commission 
(CTC) Active Transportation Program (ATP) Cycle 5 call for projects for the Delaware Street Safe Routes to School bicycle 
project. This projects intent is to implement the Delaware Street Class IV separated bike lane and Class III bicycle boulevard 
as planned in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan. This project provides necessary safety improvements in an area with a high 
level of traffic stress and history of collisions and will improve safety and connectivity to two public schools accessed from 
Delaware Street. Further, this project improves connectivity with the newly relocated Hillsdale Caltrain station from the 
north and south. The following is an update on this effort.

Staff has prepared a Request for Proposals (RFP) for consultant services for the initial project planning, 
environmental documentation and design phase. This phase will include traffic studies and identify potential 
project impacts that will help to inform the community engagement and design phases. 
28th Avenue Gap Closure Project: Staff was awarded funds in the San Mateo County Transportation Authority Pedestrian 
and Bicycle Program Cycle 5 to fund design and environmental review for the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap 
Closure project. The project intent is to evaluate design options for the Class IV separated bike lane implementation 
identified in the adopted 2020 Bicycle Master Plan, in addition to bicycle and pedestrian connectivity across the 
intersection of 28th Avenue and El Camino Real. The following is an update on this effort.

Staff completed the RFP process and will be bringing a consultant agreement to City Council for award in 
September 2022. Work on the project will commence upon execution of the agreement. 
North Central Bike Lanes Project: The City receives federal funding from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban 
Development (HUD) for the CDBG program and allocates the funds based on community priorities. The projects identified 
for implementation with these funds are the projects identified as the 2nd and 4th highest priority projects in the 2020 
Bicycle Master Plan, including a bicycle boulevard and bicycle lanes on Humboldt Street and bicycle lanes on Poplar and 
Indian Avenues to connect to the recently completed North San Mateo Drive project. The following is an update on this 
7 of 10

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
effort.

Project construction was initiated in late February 2022 and completed in late May 2022.

Concurrent with construction, staff implemented several parking-related programs in the neighborhood: 
o
Driveway Red Tipping: Staff offered North Central residents the option for red curb painted on either side 
of driveway approaches at no cost. This option helps prevent vehicles from parking in front of driveways 
and blocking resident vehicles from entering and exiting. To date, Public Works has received a total of 108 
requests for driveway red tipping, and has completed installation for over 100.
o
On-Street Accessible Parking: Eligible neighborhood residents with a current ADA placard or hangtag were 
able to request an on-street disabled parking space at no charge. To date, Public Works has received 12 
requests for installation, and has completed evaluation and installation of most.
o
Driveway Entrance Parking: City staff provided educational information to neighborhood residents 
regarding the option to park parallel on-street, blocking the driveway entrance to one’s own home. Staff 
has received minimal inquiries regarding this option.

Staff implemented the pilot King Center Overnight Parking program in July 2022. In the initial pilot 
implementation, permits will be available free of charge monthly on a first-come, first-served basis. In July, 17 
permits were issued free of charge to residents to provide parking in off-street lot between 10 pm and 8 am.

Staff launched a neighborhood survey to gain input regarding residential parking permits in June 2022. The survey 
was available online, and a mailed copy was sent to 3,000 households in the neighborhood. The survey closed on 
July 8, 2022. Staff received a total of 588 survey responses, and are in process of analyzing the data. Staff intends 
to return to City Council in Fall 2022 with the findings of the survey and permit program options for consideration. 
Pavement Management Program Integration: Staff continues to integrate implementation of bicycle facilities with 
scheduled pavement management projects where funding for design and construction is available and feasible. The 
following is an update on this effort.

Smooth Streets Phase 3: This pavement management project includes installation of a bicycle boulevard on 
Sunnybrae Boulevard from S. Delaware Street to S. Amphlett Boulevard. The improvements include bicycle and 
pedestrian safety elements. The project is estimated to begin construction in Summer 2022, with the bicycle 
improvements likely installed by early 2023.

Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package 3-B (Phase 1): This pavement management project includes Class II bike 
lanes on S. Humboldt Street from 5th to 9th Avenue and a bicycle boulevard on 5th Avenue. Construction is 
scheduled to begin in August 2022, with bicycle improvement implementation anticipated by early 2023.

Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package 3-B (Phase 2): This project includes design and implementation of Class II 
buffered and standard bicycle lanes on Pacific Boulevard from Delaware Street to the City limit. Construction is 
scheduled to begin in late August 2022, with the bike lane striping expected in Winter 2022.

4th and 5th Avenue Railroad Crossing Improvements Project: This project includes repaving approximately 100 
feet of roadway on both 4th Avenue and 5th Avenue, installation of a Class II bicycle lane on 5th Avenue between 
B Street and Railroad Avenue, and replacement of all striping, signage and markings within project limits (e.g. stop 
lines, lane markings, R&R pavement markings). Construction advertisement and award is expected by late 2023, 
with construction expected to be complete by the end of 2024. 
Planning Projects 
Transit-Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan: The City was awarded Transportation Development Act (TDA) 
Article 3 funds for this project, which will evaluate the full pedestrian path of travel to the City’s high-quality transit stops. 
The Plan will identify necessary improvements to create a safe and comfortable pedestrian realm within one-half mile of 
those locations. The following is an update on this effort. 

Staff provided an overview of the project to City Council in June 2022.

Staff is finalizing the draft Plan, and will return to the Commission in September 2022 to request feedback on the 
draft document.

Final adoption of the Plan is anticipated for November 2022. 
8 of 10

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Complete Streets Plan: A collaborative team of staff from Public Works, Community Development, and the City Manager’s 
Office submitted an application to the Caltrans Sustainable Communities FY 2021-22 Grant Program for the San Mateo 
Complete Streets Plan, and was awarded funding for the project in June 2021. This project will bring together the City’s 
various active transportation plans, Local Roadway Safety Plan, and the Green Infrastructure Plan to fully envision a 
multimodal transportation network and identify priority improvements for the City. The following is an update on this 
effort.

Staff received Notice to Proceed on this project in late December 2021. Staff developed an RFP with Caltrans staff 
input, and released the RFP in May 2022. Proposals were received on June 24, and interviews held in early August.

Staff anticipates contract award in September 2022 with work commencing thereafter. 
Grants 
One Bay Area Grant (OBAG) 3: The Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) issued a Call for Projects for the most 
recent OBAG funding cycle. City staff submitted a grant application requesting $5M toward the construction of the 
Peninsula Interchange project, which includes bicycle and pedestrian improvements. 
San Mateo County Transportation Authority (SMCTA) Pedestrian and Bicycle Program: SMCTA issued the call for projects 
for the current funding cycle in early August. Staff intends to evaluate potential projects for the funding opportunity and 
submit an application accordingly. 
US 101/SR 92 Mobility Hub and Smart Corridor: The San Mateo County Transportation Authority (TA) and the City/County 
Association of Governments (C/CAG) are cosponsors of two US 101/SR 92 Interchange Projects (the near-term Area 
Improvements and long-term Direct Connectors projects). The TA and C/CAG have been working to identify strategies to 
ensure the US 101/SR 92 interchange improvements also include multimodal elements. In parallel, the San Mateo County 
Transit District (SamTrans) completed an Express Bus Feasibility Study that identified transit-related infrastructure that 
could be bundled with and implemented alongside highway improvements. The proposed US 101/SR 92 Mobility Hub and 
Smart Corridor Concept Plan project (Project) would be a joint effort between the City, TA, and SamTrans and includes two 
specific multimodal elements:

Mobility Hub: This concept is proposed by Sam Trans at the existing Park and Ride lot under the US 101/SR 92 
interchange and would be designed to accommodate new express bus services to connect users to San Francisco. 
This facility would include new bus stops, improved pedestrian connectivity to the local street network, sheltered 
waiting areas, real-time transit displays, interactive information kiosks, electric vehicle chargers, bicycle lockers, 
micromobility-ready charging areas, and parking management.

Fashion Island Boulevard and 19th Avenue Smart Corridor: The Smart Corridor would include design options for a 
proposed Class IV separated bikeway, identified in the City’s adopted 2020 Bicycle Master Plan, that would 
connect directly to the Mobility Hub. Smart corridor technology would be incorporated into the Project design to 
encourage regional transit usage including smart streetlights, air quality monitoring, traffic signal detection 
enhancements, and smart kiosks and digital bus stops with real-time transit information. 
The project team applied for funding for an initial feasibility study through the SMCTA Alternative Congestion Relief and 
Transportation Demand Management (ACR/TDM) funding cycle, and for design funding through the OBAG 3 funding cycle 
as well. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with receiving this program update.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This bicycle and pedestrian program update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
9 of 10

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
10 of 10