source: packet.pdf
sha256: c88b328d40d97c70304d975c2732dd86db6215f83bf554f65f713dd9e76872a2
pages: 24
ocr_pages: 6
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
October 6, 2025
5:30 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Robert Newsom Jr.
Adam Loraine
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: October 6, 2025
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 880 7618 6915      Passcode: 562678
Council Member Lisa Diaz Nash will be participating remotely from the following location: 
Business Center, Outrigger Wikiki Beachcomber Hotel, 2300 Kalakaua Ave., Honolulu, Hawaii
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Consideration for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the consideration of these items. Following the meeting a report of action
from Closed Session will be provided if required.
1.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Anticipated Litigation
Significant exposure to litigation pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 54956.9 One case (Claim
of Myers & Sons Construction, LLC)
2.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Anticipated Litigation
Initiation of litigation pursuant to paragraph (4) of subdivision (d) of Section 54956.9: Two cases
3.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Section 54956.9) Cant v. City of San Mateo et al. (U.S. Dist. Court Case No.
3:25-cv-02473-CRB
4.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Anticipated Litigation
Initiation of litigation pursuant to paragraph (4) of subdivision (d) of Section 54956.9: One case
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of this item.
5.
San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce: 2025-26 Work Plan — Presentation
1 of 24

--- page 2 ---
Receive a presentation from the San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce on the 2025-26 Work Plan.
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form. Organized Group and Presentations: Up to five (5) minutes for a group presentation,
with as many speakers as can be accommodated within that time allowance. To qualify for a group presentation, all individuals associated with the
presentation must be clearly identified and confirmed as in attendance at the meeting. Presentation materials must be submitted to
clerk@cityofsanmateo.org one (1) business day in advance of the meeting.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and to ensure meaningful access for all participants, including those with
limited English proficiency, individuals requiring special accommodations or language assistance to participate in this meeting may contact the City
Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable
arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 24

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 25-10444
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
October 6, 2025 
SUBJECT:
San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce: 2025-26 Work Plan — Presentation
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a presentation from the San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce on the 2025-26 Work Plan.
BACKGROUND:
Each year, the City of San Mateo contributes $90,000 to the San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce in support of 
programs and initiatives that benefit local businesses and the broader community. The first $70,000 supports the primary 
Work Plan, which includes:
1.
Business Attraction and Retention
2.
Targeted Business District Activation
3.
Civic Engagement and Workforce Development
4.
Convening, Informing, and Policy Advocacy
These focus areas are generally longstanding but were further developed this year by the Chamber, in partnership with 
City staff, to foster a vibrant business community that supports the needs of its users, engages the community, and 
attracts visitors to the area. The work plan is included as Attachment 1.
The other $20,000 supports the Chamber’s LeadForward Program, which was retooled this past year to provide a forum 
for cross-sector relationship-building, partnerships, and mentorship for leaders throughout the area. As part of the City’s 
contribution, the program provides four slots and twelve executive coaching sessions to City leadership staff.
At the September 2 meeting, Council will also hear highlights from 2024/25, including the Best of San Mateo Area, the 
September Arts & Culture Fest, and feedback on the changes to LeadForward, which were well received by participants.
BUDGET IMPACT:
No impact – the annual contribution has already been budgeted and issued.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
3 of 24

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – FY 2025-26 Chamber Work Plan 
STAFF CONTACT
Christina Horrisberger, Assistant City Manager 
Chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7210
4 of 24

--- page 5 ---
July 3, 2025 
Alex Khojikian, City Manager 
Christina Horrisberger, Assistant City Manager 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, California 94403 
Re: FY 2025-26 Work Plan and Funding Proposal 
Dear Alex and Christina, 
It was a pleasure speaking with you both last week and sharing our 
proposed work plan for fiscal year 2025-26. As noted in our 
conversation, we've closely followed the City's progress on its 
economic development framework and have designed our plan to 
align with those priorities. 
We believe our continued partnership will help to meaningfully 
advance your strategic goals-diversifying the economy, attracting 
and retaining businesses, and fostering sustainable economic 
growth. 
We are truly grateful for the City's past support and are pleased to 
submit our request for continued investment at the $90,000 level. 
Thank you again for your partnership and thoughtful consideration 
of this request. 
Warm regar@ f
tNW)) 
Erica Wood 
President & CEO 
Attachment - FY 2025-26 Work Plan 
5 of 24

--- page 6 ---
ATTACHMENT - FY 2025-26 PROPOSED WORK PLAN  
FOR THE SAN MATEO AREA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE 
SUBMITTED TO THE CITY OF SAN MATEO 
The San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce (the Chamber) has outlined a proposed work 
plan for FY 2025–26 centered around four strategic focus areas: business attraction and 
retention; targeted activation of key business districts; civic engagement and workforce 
development; and convening, informing, and advocating on public policy. These priorities are 
designed to advance the City’s economic development goals while aligning with the 
Chamber’s mission to foster a vibrant local economy and community. 
A summary of proposed activities under each focus area is provided below. These activities 
were initially presented at the June 24 meeting and have been refined based on feedback 
received during the meeting and further input from Chamber staff. 
1.
Business Attraction and Retention
1.1. 
Create an enhanced licensing and onboarding process for new businesses, including
welcome kit with economic development resources accessible from the City and 
Chamber websites. 
1.2. Provide high value business development services for members and non-members 
through quarterly webinars, 1:1 mentoring through the Chamber’s Business Assistance 
Center, monthly business-to-business referrals and networking opportunities and 
ribbon-cutting ceremonies. 
1.3. Promote and connect minority- and women-owned businesses as well as age-
friendly businesses with certification opportunities and resources. 
1.4. Work with City on a shared early warning approach / communication process for 
troubled businesses, including those considering relocation. 
1.5. Promote and celebrate business excellence through annual shop local campaign 
and Best of San Mateo Area awards celebration. 
2.
Targeted Business District Activation
2.1. Partner with City and DSMA on downtown planning, programs, and events (Farmer’s
Market, September Nights on B Street, Lunar New Year and Boba Day); identify 
opportunities to include Latinx businesses and residents. 
2.2. Help promote the Downtown Specific Plan process with Chamber members; ensure 
participation of local businesses to support City community outreach activities. 
2.3. Develop and execute 3rd annual September Arts & Culture Fest event. 
2.4. Expand businesses participating in the 25th Avenue Collective, guide and support 
planning of events, including Winter Wonder Walk.  
2.5. Explore opportunities for public art in 1-2 business districts and ways to support / 
promote City’s Art in Public Places Program. 
2.6. Pilot dedicated Facebook / Instagram page for 1-2 business districts (beyond 
downtown) to spotlight shops, cafes, restaurants, services, and experiences. 
6 of 24

--- page 7 ---
ATTACHMENT - FY 2025-26 PROPOSED WORK PLAN  
FOR THE SAN MATEO AREA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE 
SUBMITTED TO THE CITY OF SAN MATEO 
3.
Civic Engagement and Workforce Development
3.1. Plan and execute LeadForward 2026, including orientation kickoff meeting, 3-day
retreat experience, and post-retreat dinner. Ensure participation of employees from 
larger companies (e.g., Roblox, Franklin Templeton, commercial developers). 
3.2. Organize an annual community service project with Leadership alumni aligned with 
City opportunities and needs. Consult with City Manager’s Office and Community 
Relations Committee. 
3.3. Partner with City to complete inventory of organizations and institutions providing 
workforce development programs within the City of San Mateo; make information 
available through City and Chamber websites. 
3.4. Organize a job fair / career day to connect youth with local job opportunities in 
partnership with the City, College of San Mateo and local high schools. 
4.
Convening, Informing and Policy Advocacy
4.1. Hold monthly public policy committee meetings aligned with City priorities and
initiatives, including potential sales tax measure. 
4.2. Design and execute Good Morning San Mateo forum for business, government and 
community leaders focused on the economic outlook and major trends impacting 
San Mateo. 
4.3. Organize 3-4 developer roundtable meetings to identify opportunities for commercial 
development process improvements. 
4.4. Lead 1-2 strategic input sessions with larger firms to inform economic development 
plan (include gaming and fintech representatives). 
4.5. Partner with SF Peninsula, San Mateo County Events Center and others to make San 
Mateo the place to host a major gaming and / or watch parties associated with next 
year’s NFL / FIFA sporting events.  
Funding Justification 
The Chamber is requesting $90,000 to help cover the direct program expenses associated 
with the activities listed above, including staff salaries and benefits, materials and supplies, 
event-related expenses (venue, food, vendors, and fees), marketing and communications 
(printing and social media), speaker honoraria and consultant support. The Chamber also 
raises funds from its business members, board members, sponsors, and grants to support 
these expenses. 
The Chamber is pleased to name the City as a title sponsor for the September Arts & Culture 
Fest and provide associated benefits, including stage time and a complimentary booth, three 
Mayor-designated awards as part of the Best of San Mateo Area campaign and four 
complimentary spots for City staff in LeadForward 2026. 
7 of 24

--- page 8 ---
City of San Mateo 
City Council Meeting 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POST PACKET 
 
 PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
8 of 24

--- page 9 ---
lo™ Outlook

[Samaritan House] Comments for City Council Special Meeting

From Amanda Lo
Date Mon 10/6/2025 2:00 PM
To = Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Councilmembers,

On behalf of Laura Bent, CEO of Samaritan House, please see below for her comments for the upcoming City
Council Special Meeting.

Thank you,
Amanda Lo
Sr. Executive Assistant, Samaritan House

Dear City Councilmembers,

My name is Laura Bent. I’m a resident of San Mateo and the CEO of Samaritan House — the largest
nonprofit in San Mateo County dedicated to fighting poverty and supporting our most vulnerable
neighbors. I’m also proud to serve on the Board of Directors of the San Mateo Area Chamber of
Commerce and to have served as its past Board Chair.

One of the Chamber's strongest commitments has been to developing local leadership — because
strong, engaged leaders help build safer neighborhoods, drive economic growth, increase civic
participation, and strengthen community resilience.

That's why we've invested in LeadForward, our leadership development program. The shift to a
weekend retreat model has been a game changer. It reduces barriers for busy professionals and
students who might otherwise be unable to participate in traditional programs due to work or school
schedules.

This retreat format offers participants a rare chance to step away from their daily responsibilities and
fully immerse themselves in personal and professional growth. The program is grounded in evidence-
based leadership models and draws from successful programs in peer cities. It combines civic
education, mentorship, and hands-on community projects to deliver a truly impactful experience.

As both a nonprofit leader and a resident, | was especially proud to see one of our up and coming
leaders at Samaritan House participate in LeadForward. She returned energized — sharing how the
program helped her build new connections, boost her confidence, deepen her understanding of local
issues, and discover new ways she and her family could positively contribute to our community.

LeadForward is just one example of how the San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce is making a
meaningful difference. In my time on the board, I’ve watched the Chamber grow into a more dynamic,

9 of 24


--- page 10 ---
inclusive, and forward-thinking organization — and I'm confident in the impact it will continue to
make.

Thank you for the opportunity to share these thoughts.

Amanda Lo
Sr. Executive Assistant

samaritan ousesanmateo.org

10 of 24


--- page 11 ---
ANNUAL UPDATE

October 6, 2025

apt
ST)

San Mateo Area



--- page 12 ---
BUILDING MEMBER 
MOMENTUM
$221,665
“Being part of BRN has 
helped us get more business 
and build strong relationships 
-- not only work related but 
friendships.”
12 of 24

--- page 13 ---
ENERGIZING OUR DOWNTOWN
ENERGIZING OUR DOWNTOWN
5,000+
13 of 24

--- page 14 ---
NICOLE FERNANDEZ 
District 2 
 DR. CHARLES HANSEN
District 2 
 DANIELLE CWIRKO-
GODYCKI
District 4 
POLICY IN ACTION
POLICY IN ACTION
7,015
14 of 24

--- page 15 ---
WHAT IT IS
WHAT IT IS
WHAT PARTICIPANTS GAIN
WHAT PARTICIPANTS GAIN
• A powerful network
A powerful network
• Enhanced leadership skills 
Enhanced leadership skills 
• Real-world impact
Real-world impact
An immersive 3-day retreat with 
An immersive 3-day retreat with 
pre- and post-retreat gatherings and 
pre- and post-retreat gatherings and 
community service opportunities
community service opportunities
LAUNCHING
LAUNCHING
LeadForward
15 of 24

--- page 16 ---
LEADFORWARD RESULTS
LEADFORWARD RESULTS
100%
“The location was serene and folded 
into the experience beautifully”
“The personal stories were 
exceptional”
“Loved meeting leaders in my 
community and the opportunities 
for partnership and growth”
“I loved the workshops and left with 
really tangible skills”
“It ignited my passion for becoming 
more involved in community”
16 of 24

--- page 17 ---
4,0,000
250-320 i

ERE: 2

MESON INJURY | vn Wo)
om COMPENSATION

fl. +0 sanirans

17 of 24


--- page 18 ---
Workplan 
Focus Areas
2025-26
Business Attraction and Retention
Targeted Business District Activation
Civic Engagement and Workforce 
Convening, Informing and Policy Advocacy
18 of 24

--- page 19 ---
Business 
Attraction & 
Retention
1. Launch enhanced licensing, welcome + 
onboarding process 
2. Offer high value business development 
services
3. Support minority, women, and age-
friendly businesses
4. Coordinate with City on early outreach to 
at-risk or relocating businesses
5. Celebrate business excellence through 
Shop Local and Best of San Mateo Area
TO CREATE A THRIVING AND 
TO CREATE A THRIVING AND 
RESILIENT LOCAL ECONOMY
RESILIENT LOCAL ECONOMY
19 of 24

--- page 20 ---
Targeted Business 
District 
Activation
1. Partner with City and DSMA on downtown 
planning & events 
2. Produce annual September Arts & Culture Fest
3. Grow 25th Ave Collective & support events like 
Winter Wonder Walk
4. Explore public art and placemaking strategies 
in 1-2 business districts
5. Pilot dedicated social media page for 1-2 
business districts 
TO INCREASE ECONOMIC ACTIVITY 
TO INCREASE ECONOMIC ACTIVITY 
AND VIBRANCY
AND VIBRANCY
20 of 24

--- page 21 ---
Civic Engagement 
& Workforce
1. Plan and execute LeadForward 2026
2. Host annual Leadership alumni service 
project
3. Partner with City to complete inventory 
of workforce development resources
4. Organize Youth Job Fair/Career Day with 
City, CSM & local schools
TO DEVELOP LOCAL TALENT THAT 
TO DEVELOP LOCAL TALENT THAT 
STRENGTHENS OUR BUSINESSES & 
STRENGTHENS OUR BUSINESSES & 
COMMUNITY
COMMUNITY
21 of 24

--- page 22 ---
Convening, 
Informing & Policy 
Advocacy
1. Hold public policy committee meetings 
aligned with City priorities
2. Execute “Good Morning San Mateo” forum 
on key economic insights and trends
3. Hold developer roundtables to improve 
processes
4. Lead business input sessions to further 
inform economic development plan
TO RAISE AWARENESS, INCREASE 
TO RAISE AWARENESS, INCREASE 
COLLABORATION AND INFLUENCE 
COLLABORATION AND INFLUENCE 
POLICY DECISIONS
POLICY DECISIONS
22 of 24

--- page 23 ---
gn

wo
b=}
c
wo
>
<
»
n

23 of 24


--- page 24 ---
A.
VY)
Zz
O
—
Y)
Lu
—
O

