Flock license plate scanner contract postponed by Alameda County leaders Our coverage is free for all of Oakland, because we want everyone to know what's really happening in the Town. Will you help support our free journalism? DONATE 🔍 No need to go searching for news. The Oaklandside's daily newsletter is the easiest way to stay up to speed with what’s happening in The Town. Sign up Close ♥ Donate NEWSLETTERS Search for: Search Latest News Arts & Community Business Events Food Housing Immigration Nature & Health Politics Public Safety Roads & Transit Schools Sports Nosh New Restaurants Nosh Features About us Get in touch Advertise Instagram TikTok Facebook Apple Podcast Close Skip to content About us Get in touch Advertise Instagram TikTok Facebook Apple Podcast The Oaklandside The Oaklandside. Journalism for Oakland. ♥ Donate NEWSLETTERS Open Search Search for: Search ♥ Donate Menu Latest News Arts & Community Business Events Food Housing Immigration Nature & Health Politics Public Safety Roads & Transit Schools Sports Nosh New Restaurants Nosh Features Nosh Logo (Highlight Menu) Nosh June 2 primary election information and resources Posted in City Hall Flock license plate scanner contract postponed by Alameda County leaders The Board of Supervisors has questions for the sheriff about the controversial surveillance company. by Eli Wolfe Feb. 11, 2026, 9:41 a.m. Feb. 11, 2026, 9:41 a.m. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Print (Opens in new window) Print Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky A Flock Safety automated license plate reader camera near 51st Street and Broadway in Oakland. Credit: Darwin BondGraham/The Oaklandside Alameda County officials are punting on whether to approve a contract extension with a controversial surveillance company until they hear from Sheriff Yesenia Sanchez. The Board of Supervisors voted on Tuesday to table a proposed contract extension with Flock Safety, a Georgia-based company that sells automated license plate reader cameras and other surveillance technology used by law enforcement to track vehicles. The county already has Flock cameras. County leaders approved a contract with Flock in June 2023 to cover unincorporated parts of the county with over 100 license plate readers. Last April, the board agreed to pay for Flock’s pan-tilt-zoom cameras, which allow the sheriff’s department to conduct surveillance on pedestrians, vehicles, and more. In July, the board signed a $600,000 year-long deal with Flock for the AeroDome system, which stations drones at sheriff’s facilities where they can be deployed on a minute’s notice. The board previously extended its agreement with Flock through June 2025. The newest proposal would extend Flock’s work with the county through June 2026, making this extension mostly retroactive. According to a memo filed by Sheriff Sanchez, ALPR technology has been used to arrest violent criminals, recover stolen vehicles, and has led to a “significant decrease in violent and overall crime.” However, Supervisor Elisa Márquez, who made the motion to postpone the board’s decision, said she and her colleagues have questions for the sheriff, noting that this is a “very sensitive and controversial topic.” The sheriff has posted answers to the supervisors’ questions online. Never miss a story. Sign up for The Oaklandside’s free daily newsletter. Facebook This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Email Δ Supervisor Nikki Fortunato Bas echoed Márquez, saying there are concerns around the federal government’s potential ability to access Flock data and use it against vulnerable communities, including immigrants. Concerns that ICE could be getting its hands on Alameda County’s Flock data Flock cameras blanket the Bay Area, and Oakland recently approved a new contract for its nearly 300 cameras that allow OPD to track vehicles as they move throughout the city, and pan-tilt-zoom cameras. But Flock has seen a backlash in smaller cities in recent weeks as residents and public officials question whether the company and police are doing enough to protect the massive amounts of data the cameras collect. At Tuesday’s meeting, roughy two-dozen residents urged the board not to approve the contract. A couple noted that the board recently agreed to create “ ICE-free zones ” on county property. “Why would Alameda County choose to continue to invest in the very surveillance infrastructure that will be weaponized against our immigrant neighbors, healthcare seekers, and advocates and activists standing up for our communities?” asked Rebecca Gurney, a member of East Bay Sanctuary Covenant . Brian Hofer, who leads a nonprofit called Secure Justice and previously served as a member of the Oakland Privacy Advisory Commission, warned the board that the Alameda County Sheriff is abusing SB 34, the California law that forbids local law enforcement agencies from sharing license plate reader data out of state, and that this is exposing the county to significant legal liability. “Rejecting this contract today is not just the ethical choice, it’s the prudent one,” said Hofer. Hofer has also raised concerns that Alameda County is allowing police agencies that participate in the federal 287(g) program to access the data it collects. The 287(g) program deputizes local law enforcement to assist federal agents with immigration enforcement and deportation. Most states have law enforcement agencies that participate in the program, but California and a handful of other states have prohibited their police from taking part. According to Hofer, Alameda County granted approximately 337 member agencies in the 287(g) program access to its Flock data, and they have conducted tens of thousands of searches. In a blog post , Hofer said searches were conducted by the Walton County Sheriff’s Office in Florida. According to news reports, Walton County law enforcement have assisted other agencies in sending detained immigrants to the infamous “Alligator Alcatraz” detention center. Last year, Hofer and several other privacy commissioners expressed concerns about a proposed contract between Flock and the city of Oakland. Hofer later resigned from the commission and, in November, sued the city , arguing that OPD has repeatedly broken the law by sharing Flock data with federal authorities. Hofer’s lawsuit followed a report from the San Francisco Standard that San Francisco police had accessed Oakland’s system and mined data for federal law enforcement officials in violation of state law. Flock Safety representatives have stated that the company does not provide ICE with direct access to its cameras. Rather, local agencies, not Flock, decide who gets to see their data. Some Alameda County residents support more Flock cameras Eight residents spoke at Tuesday’s Board of Supervisors meeting in favor of extending the Flock contract. They urged the board to provide more tools to local law enforcement and cited the widespread use of the technology in other jurisdictions. “We don’t have enough bodies, so we have to lean on technology,” said Brenda Grisham, an activist who helped lead the recall of Alameda County District Attorney Pamela Price. A handful of Flock’s supporters who spoke Tuesday also said they believe license plate readers should be used to target immigrants. A resident named Jackie Cota said Flock would help the sheriff’s office apprehend “criminal illegal invaders who prey on our residents.” She also praised the idea of the federal government transforming FCI Dublin into an “illegal invader detention center.” Reports last year said that federal officials had toured the former women’s prison in Dublin to see if it could be converted to an immigration detention center, but that effort has apparently not gone forward. Mindy Pechenuk, a MAGA-aligned Republican who is running for Oakland Mayor, said the cameras help police solve crimes. “Right now, with the amount of crime and people being killed and wounded because of illegal immigration — let’s call it what it is — it’s now time to solve these things for the legal citizens of Oakland and Alameda County,” Pechenuk said. Most studies of crime and immigration have found that immigrants, including undocumented people, commit fewer crimes on average than U.S. citizens . Pushback against Flock in some smaller Bay Area cities Some Bay Area cities have cut ties with Flock or become openly critical of the company following discoveries about data sharing practices. Last week, Tiburon’s police chief acknowledged in an email that 23 agencies have conducted hundreds of potentially illegal federal searches of their license plate reader database, including for immigration enforcement, according to the Tiburon Ark . The police chief called these searches “unacceptable.” Richmond shut down its Flock system in December after officials learned that license plate reader data had accidentally been made searchable by outside agencies. According to Richmondside , a representative from Flock first notified the Richmond Police Department that this data-sharing feature was active. The city’s contract is up for renewal in February. Santa Cruz ended its contract with Flock earlier this year, with members of the city council citing tensions with ICE and weak public trust in the company. Mountain View disabled its Flock cameras at the end of January after the police department revealed that hundreds of law enforcement agencies had accessed ALPR data in violation of the city’s policies. Mountain View officials also claimed that Flock turned on a “national lookup” tool for several months in 2024 without notifying the police department. Other cities in the region have moved forward with contracts over the objections of civil liberty advocates. Berkeley has a network of Flock automated license plate readers and will consider extending this contract later in 2026. The city’s police department said there are sufficient guardrails to keep Berkeley data secure. But opponents cited a recent incident where California Highway Patrol and police in Southern California were able to search the city’s system for terms like “ICE” and “CBP.” ...We rely on your support Hey, we know that most readers only scan a headline and a couple of paragraphs. Thank you for reading to the end of our story. Since you clearly appreciate the in-depth approach we take in reporting the stories that matter to Oaklanders, please consider chipping in to supercharge our newsroom. Y es, I want to support The Oaklandside! " * " indicates required fields LinkedIn This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Send a note to the Oaklandside newsroom. * See an error that needs correcting? Have a tip, question or suggestion? Drop us a line. Email * Name Phone This field is hidden when viewing the form Embed URL Δ Tagged: Alameda County Board of Supervisors , Brenda Grisham , Elisa Márquez , flock safety , mindy pechenuk , Nikki Fortunato Bas , Oakland City Council Eli Wolfe eli@oaklandside.org Eli Wolfe reports on City Hall for The Oaklandside. He was previously a senior reporter for San José Spotlight, where he had a beat covering Santa Clara County’s government and transportation. He also worked as an investigative reporter for the Pasadena-based newsroom FairWarning, where he covered labor, consumer protection and transportation issues. He started his journalism career as a freelancer based out of Berkeley. Eli’s stories have appeared in The Atlantic, NBCNews.com, Salon, the San Francisco Chronicle, and elsewhere. Eli graduated from UC Santa Cruz and grew up in San Francisco. More by Eli Wolfe Instagram TikTok Facebook Apple Podcast We are part of ABOUT About The Oaklandside How We Work Contact us Write for us Advertise Careers Berkeleyside Richmondside JOIN US Get our newsletters Donate Facebook Instagram OUR MISSION We’re journalists for Oakland. We amplify community voices, share information resources, and investigate systems, not just symptoms. Learn more © 2026 Cityside. All Rights Reserved Powered by Newspack Policies Gift this article Close Link Copy link