Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock
Culver City CA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Sun Aug 23 2026

Overview

Culver City CA PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Culver City CA PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Culver City CA PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

52

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

1,474,066

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

211

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

6,477

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Culver City CA PD data.

Culver City CA PD is not sharing data with any partner networks.
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Culver City CA PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use, the enforcement of any abortion and/or gender conforming laws.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
More Info

Full ALPR Policy Here:

https://www.culvercitypd.gov/files/assets/police/v/1/documents/ripa-reports/policies/ccpd-policy-release-6.30.25.pdf



Provided by Flock Safety