Lawmakers question legality of Border Patrol license plate reader program Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 74°F Friday, June 5th 2026 Today's Paper Home Page News News Business Best Reviews Crime & Public Safety Education Government & Politics Health National News World News Environment Local St. Paul Ramsey County Anoka County Washington County Dakota County Minnesota Wisconsin Sports Sports Minnesota Vikings Minnesota Twins Minnesota Wild Minnesota Timberwolves Minnesota Frost Minnesota Lynx Minnesota United FC College Sports Gophers Football St. Paul Saints Gophers Men’s Basketball High School Sports Outdoors Food Restaurants, Food and Drink Restaurant news Restaurant reviews Restaurant lists Recipes Takeout Things to Do Things to Do Books Movies & TV Arts Music and Concerts Restaurants, Food and Drink Theater Travel Treasure Hunt Winter Carnival State Fair Home & Garden Events Opinion Editorials Letters to the Editor Opinion Columnists Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Branded Content Paid Content by Brandpoint Subscribe Log in Logout Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Sign Up to submit an obituary To share the story of your loved one, you can submit an obituary using any of the following methods: Email : Please include the information from our Obituary Checklist (referenced below) to obits@pioneerpress.com . Online : Use our Self-Service Portal for a step-by-step guided process. Need assistance? Our obituary desk is here to help. Please call us at 651-228-5263 with any questions regarding the process or deadlines. General Information: Your full name, Address (City, State, Zip Code), Phone number, And an alternate phone number (if any) Obituary Specification: Name of Deceased, Obituary Text, A photo in a JPEG or PDF file is preferable, TIF and other files are accepted, we will contact you if there are any issues with the photo. Ad Run dates There is a discount for running more than one day, but this must be scheduled on the first run date to apply. If a photo is used, it must be used for both days for the discount to apply, contact us for more information. Policies: Verification of Death: In order to publish obituaries a name and phone number of funeral home/cremation society is required. We must contact the funeral home/cremation society handling the arrangements during their business hours to verify the death. If the body of the deceased has been donated to the University of Minnesota Anatomy Bequest Program, or a similar program, their phone number is required for verification. Please allow enough time to contact them especially during their limited weekend hours. A death certificate is also acceptable for this purpose but only one of these two options are necessary. Guestbook and Outside Websites: We are not allowed to reference other media sources with a guestbook or an obituary placed elsewhere when placing an obituary in print and online. We may place a website for a funeral home or a family email for contact instead; contact us with any questions regarding this matter. Obituary Process: Once your submission is completed, we will fax or email a proof for review prior to publication in the newspaper. This proof includes price and days the notice is scheduled to appear. Please review the proof carefully. We must be notified of errors or changes before the notice appears in the Pioneer Press based on each day’s deadlines. After publication, we will not be responsible for errors that may occur after final proofing. Online: Changes to an online obituary can be handled through the obituary desk. Call us with further questions. Payment Procedure: Pre-payment is required for all obituary notices prior to publication by the deadline specified below in our deadline schedule. Please call 651-228-5263 with your payment information after you have received the proof and approved its contents. Credit Card: Payment accepted by phone only due to PCI (Payment Card Industry) regulations EFT: Check by phone. Please provide your routing number and account number. Rates: The minimum charge is $162 for the first 12 lines. Every line after the first 12 is $12. If the ad is under 12 lines it will be charged the minimum rate of $162. Obituaries including more than 40 lines will receive a 7.5% discount per line. On a second run date, receive a 20% discount off both the first and second placement. Place three obituaries and the third placement will be free of charge. Each photo published is $125 per day. For example: 2 photos in the paper on 2 days would be 4 photo charges at $500. Deadlines: Please follow deadline times to ensure your obituary is published on the day requested. Hours Deadline (no exceptions) Ad Photos MONDAY – FRIDAY 9:00AM – 5:00 PM Next Day Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 3:45PM Make changes by 4:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 4:00PM SATURDAYS 10:00AM – 2:00PM Sunday Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 1:30PM Make changes by 2:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 1:30PM SUNDAYS CLOSED MEMORIAM (NON-OBITUARY) REQUEST Unlike an obituary, Memoriam submissions are remembrances of a loved one who has passed. The rates for a memoriam differ from obituaries. Please call or email us for more memoriam information Please call 651-228-5280 for more information. HOURS: Monday – Friday 8:00AM – 5:00PM (CLOSED WEEKENDS and HOLIDAYS) Please submit your memoriam ad to memoriams@pioneerpress.com or call 651-228-5280. National Politics | Lawmakers question legality of Border Patrol… Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email More Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Pinterest Share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Tumblr Submit to Stumbleupon (Opens in new window) Submit to Stumbleupon Subscribe Log in Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Sign Up Subscribe Log in Search 74°F Friday, June 5th 2026 Today's Paper National Politics Business Crime Education Government & Politics Health Nation Environment OUR PICKS: Quarterback competition Prince: Vault release Fun Finder Photos: Obama Presidential Center Obit: John Mastel St. Paul ballot questions Best Twin Cities patios Cities Church protest News Politics National Politics Lawmakers question legality of Border Patrol license plate reader program Sen. Ed Markey raised the possibility that the program may run afoul of the Constitution. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email More Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Pinterest Share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Tumblr Submit to Stumbleupon (Opens in new window) Submit to Stumbleupon Alek Schott photographs a Flock Safety license plate reader in his neighborhood, Thursday, Oct. 16, 2025, in Houston. (AP Photo/David Goldman) By Associated Press PUBLISHED: November 24, 2025 at 2:22 PM CST | UPDATED: November 24, 2025 at 3:25 PM CST Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... By BYRON TAU and GARANCE BURKE, Associated Press WASHINGTON (AP) — A number of Democratic lawmakers are questioning the legality of a U.S. Border Patrol predictive intelligence program that singles out and detains drivers for suspicious travel inside the country. Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts sent a letter Monday to Border Patrol’s parent agency calling the license plate reader program an “invasive surveillance network” that “poses a serious threat to individuals’ privacy and civil liberties” and raised the possibility that the program may run afoul of the U.S. Constitution. “Such pervasive surveillance — similar to surveillance conducted by authoritarian regimes such as China — not only chills lawful expression and assembly but also raises serious constitutional concerns. Without transparency, accountability, and clear limitations, these practices erode fundamental individual rights and set a dangerous precedent for unchecked government power,” Markey wrote in a letter asking the agency for details about the plate readers and their use. A license plate reader stands along the side of a road, Wednesday, Oct. 15, 2025, in Stockdale, Texas. (AP Photo/David Goldman) An Associated Press investigation published last week revealed that the U.S. Border Patrol, a component of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, is running a predictive intelligence program monitoring millions of American drivers nationwide to identify and detain people whose travel patterns it deems suspicious. In some instances, Border Patrol concealed its license plate readers in ordinary traffic equipment. The agency also had access to plate data collected by other federal, state and local law enforcement agencies as well as from private companies. The program, which has existed under administrations of both parties, has resulted in people being stopped, searched and in some cases arrested. A network of cameras scans and records vehicle license plate information, and an algorithm flags vehicles deemed suspicious based on where they came from, where they were going and which route they took. Federal agents in turn sometimes refer drivers they deem suspicious to local law enforcement who make a traffic stop citing a reason like speeding or lane change violations. Courts have generally upheld license plate reader collection on public roads but have curtailed warrantless government access to other kinds of persistent tracking data that might reveal sensitive details about the movement of individuals, such as GPS devices or cellphone location data. A growing critique by scholars and civil libertarians argues that large-scale collection systems like license plate readers might be unconstitutional under the Fourth Amendment, which protects people from unreasonable searches. “Increasingly, courts have recognized that the use of surveillance technologies can violate the Fourth Amendment’s protections against unreasonable searches and seizures. Although this area of law is still developing, the use of LPRs and predictive algorithms to track and flag individuals’ movements represents the type of sweeping surveillance that should raise constitutional concerns,” Markey wrote. CBP did not immediately respond to a request for comment but previously said the agency uses license plate readers to help identify threats and disrupt criminal networks and their use of the technology is “governed by a stringent, multi-layered policy framework, as well as federal law and constitutional protections, to ensure the technology is applied responsibly and for clearly defined security purposes.” Related Articles Nevada Republicans to decide on Trump-backed vs. experienced replacement for Rep. Mark Amodei Graham Platner to hold Maine rally with Rep. Ro Khanna as scandals shake up campaign Treasury warns banks of ‘red flags’ tied to customers in the US illegally RFK Jr. seeks to peek at Americans’ medical records for clues on autism and vaccines US set to hold latest oil and gas lease sale for Alaska’s Arctic National Wildlife Refuge Other lawmakers echoed Markey’s concerns about the legality of the program. Rep. Dan Goldman, a New York Democrat and member of the House Homeland Security Committee, wrote on the social media site X on Saturday that if CBP “is secretly tracking millions of Americans’ travel patterns and detaining people based on an algorithm, not warrants or evidence, how is that consistent with the Fourth Amendment?” “Driving isn’t probable cause,” Goldman wrote. “Congress needs full transparency on this program immediately.” Virginia Sen. Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, also said he had constitutional concerns. “As Americans across the nation hit the road this holiday season, they shouldn’t have to worry that their travel might make them a target for law enforcement or open them up to undue questioning about their movements, activities, and relationships,” Warner said in a statement. Tau reported from Washington. Burke reported from San Francisco. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email More Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Pinterest Share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Tumblr Submit to Stumbleupon (Opens in new window) Submit to Stumbleupon RevContent Feed Most Popular Most Popular Former Twins pitcher Scott Erickson and another driver liable for $176M in crash that killed 2 boys Former Twins pitcher Scott Erickson and another driver liable for $176M in crash that killed 2 boys Instead of digs, Athlon’s anonymous coach praises Gophers’ P.J. Fleck Instead of digs, Athlon's anonymous coach praises Gophers' P.J. Fleck ‘Terrible secret’: Ex-Oak Park Heights funeral home director sentenced for decapitating woman’s body in 2001, discarding head 'Terrible secret': Ex-Oak Park Heights funeral home director sentenced for decapitating woman's body in 2001, discarding head Oakdale couple charged with criminal sexual conduct-related felonies against teen Oakdale couple charged with criminal sexual conduct-related felonies against teen Bigos Management asks city for TIF dollars to convert Galtier/Cray Plaza to housing Bigos Management asks city for TIF dollars to convert Galtier/Cray Plaza to housing Charley Walters: Lynx coach Cheryl Reeve believes she can win in the NBA. And she’d consider an offer Charley Walters: Lynx coach Cheryl Reeve believes she can win in the NBA. And she'd consider an offer Ask the Food Editor: Recommendations for celebrations, quiet restaurants and more Ask the Food Editor: Recommendations for celebrations, quiet restaurants and more Grand Old Day is on Sunday: Here’s what to know about the truck leading the parade. Grand Old Day is on Sunday: Here's what to know about the truck leading the parade. Shakopee Mdewakanton Sioux Community investing in Grand Victoria project Shakopee Mdewakanton Sioux Community investing in Grand Victoria project Attitudes toward same-sex marriage and transgender issues are shifting, Gallup poll shows Attitudes toward same-sex marriage and transgender issues are shifting, Gallup poll shows More in National Politics Trump’s back-and-forth on troops in Europe potentially cost millions, US officials say ICE will no longer report deaths of detainees who have recently been released from custody Nevada Republicans to decide on Trump-backed vs. experienced replacement for Rep. Mark Amodei Graham Platner to hold Maine rally with Rep. Ro Khanna as scandals shake up campaign Treasury warns banks of ‘red flags’ tied to customers in the US illegally RFK Jr. seeks to peek at Americans’ medical records for clues on autism and vaccines 2025 November 24 Subscribe Digital Subscription FAQ Today’s Paper Obituaries Comics Puzzles Sitemap Contact Us Newsroom Contacts Pioneer Press Store Photo reprints Manage my account Privacy Policy Accessibility Home News Sports Opinion Things to Do Marketplace Autos Homes Jobs Work With Us Advertise with us Network Advertising Special Advertising Sections Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright 2026 Twin Cities. All rights reserved. The use of any content on this website for the purpose of training artificial intelligence systems, algorithms, machine learning models, text and data mining, or similar use is strictly prohibited without explicit written consent. Close advertisement advertisement advertisement