source: packet.pdf
sha256: 161f730a8bb422636bb83783327435ce984d47e472f45503d68146f5aa9f8552
pages: 12
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commission 
November 9, 2022
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 W. 20  Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
Clifford Robbins, Chair 
Susan Rowinski, Vice Chair
Adam Loraine
Kimiko Narita
Sigalle Michael
AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: November 9, 2022
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 849 6093 1392      Passcode: 293415
The Sustainability and Infrastructure meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move to the next regular meeting.
 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approved
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission meeting of October 12, 2022.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to Speak"
form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be referred to
staff for further review.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
Leaf Blower Regulations
Provide feedback and direction on potential leaf blower regulations.
OLD BUSINESS
3.
Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects Update
th
1 of 12

--- page 2 ---
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, acting as the City of San Mateo's Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory
Committee, receive an update on bicycle and pedestrian projects.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items
 
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Commission meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org  until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Public Work’s Office at (650) 522-7300 or publicworks@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting
will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 12

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
Account Number: 
File ID: 22-6806
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 09, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approved
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission meeting of October 12, 2022.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes of the October 12, 2022 meeting. 
3 of 12

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission  
October 12, 2022 
7:00 PM 
 
City Hall Council Chamber 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS  
Clifford Robbins, Chair  
Susan Rowinski, Vice Chair 
Adam Loraine 
Kimiko Narita 
Sigalle Michael 
 
MINUTES 
CALL TO ORDER – This meeting is being held pursuant to the Governor’s Executive Orders which suspend 
certain requirements of the Brown Act. 
 
This meeting was held pursuant to authorization from Government Code 54943(b)(3) / AB361 (2021) in which 
Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to participate virtually due to the Covid-19 health 
emergency. 
 
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call 
 
Present:  Vice Chair Rowinski, Commissioners Loraine, Michael, and Narita.  Chair Robbins was absent and 
excused.  
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
  
1. Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes - Approval  
 
Motion made to approve the minutes of August 10 and September 14, 2022.  Motion passed 4-0 
Moved:       Narita, Seconded: Loraine 
Ayes:          4 – Narita, Loraine, Rowinski, and Michael 
Noes:          None 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT – No public comment. 
 
NEW BUSINESS  
 
2. Transit-Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan – Draft Plan Review 
Nicolette Chan, Assistant Transportation Planner, provided a presentation to the Commission to review the draft 
Transit-Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan and make a recommendation to City Council for 
adoption.  Matt Goyne, Senior Associate with Fehr and Peers and Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation 
Planner, were also available to answer questions.  
 
Commissioners asked questions of staff.  
 
Public Comment.  No public comment.  
4 of 12

--- page 5 ---
Feedback from commissioners included: pedestrian safety concern at the existing crosswalk where vehicles make 
a right on Hillsdale Boulevard to El Camino Real after the underpass; supportive of feasibility study to consider 
a crosswalk at 28th at Hillsdale Caltrain station; better lighting at 28th and Flores heading east; consider no right 
turn on red light at 17th and El Camino Real at southeast corner. 
 
Motion made to recommend City Council adoption of the Transit-Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan 
-Draft Review.  Motion passed 4-0. 
Moved: Narita , Seconded: Loraine 
Ayes:    4 - Narita, Rowinski, Michael, and Loraine 
Noes -   0 
 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENT FROM COMMISSIONER AND STAFF 
• Director Mitch informed the Commission that with the letters of support, we received a grant for the 
downtown at-grade crossings. 
• Vice Chair Rowinski commented on the importance of recycled vehicle batteries and shared information 
about a vehicle showroom at Hillsdale shopping center where vehicles come with a program to recycle 
batteries.  
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Adjourn: 8:35pm 
 
Agendas and background material are posted on the City’s website  www.cityofsanmateo.org 
at least 72 hours preceding each Commission meeting.  Any supplemental material distributed to Commissioners after the posting of 
the agenda will be available for public review at City Hall, City Manager’s office. 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this 
meeting may contact the Public Works Department at (650) 522-7300.  Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the city to 
make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting. 
 
5 of 12

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
Account Number: 
File ID: 22-6782
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Kathy Kleinbaum
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
November 9, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Leaf Blower Regulations
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide feedback and direction on potential leaf blower regulations.
BACKGROUND:
As part of the 2021-22 Strategic Plan, the San Mateo City Council asked staff to evaluate leaf blower policy options and 
best practices from other cities. Regulating leaf blowers can help address their environmental and greenhouse gas 
emission reduction impact, as well as noise and air quality impacts. This report provides an overview of leaf blower 
impacts and the City’s history with leaf blower regulations since this topic was extensively reviewed by City Council 
between 2011 and 2013 and revisited by the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission in 2020. This report reviews leaf 
blower policy approaches for the Commission’s feedback and consideration. 
 
LEAF BLOWERS OVERVIEW
In October 2021, California became the first state with a statewide ban on new gas leaf blowers and lawn mowers when 
Governor Newsom signed Assembly Bill 1346 prohibiting the sale of new small off-road engines beginning January 1, 2024. 
The California Air Resources Board (CARB) regulates leaf blowers as part of small off-road engines (SORE) category. SORE 
are defined as spark-ignition engines rated at or below 19 kilowatts, primarily used for lawn, garden, and other outdoor 
power equipment such as leaf blowers, lawn mowers, hedge trimmers, and chippers. SORE smog-forming emissions are 
significant; CARB estimates that one hour of commercial leaf blowing activity emits the same pollution as driving a 2017 
Toyota Camry for 1,100 miles. CARB recognizes that the cumulative volume of smog-forming emissions from SORE 
equipment now exceed those from passenger cars on an annual basis. It is important to note that the prohibition of the 
sale of new SORE equipment in 2024 will still allow for the use of older SORE equipment. As a result, local restrictions still 
make sense to evaluate. 
City History with Leaf Blower Regulations
The City of San Mateo currently has time of day restrictions for leaf blowers in residential zoning districts and in areas 
bordering residentially zoned neighborhoods. San Mateo Municipal Code Section 10.80 “Operation of Leaf Blowers” limits 
the use of leaf blowers to between 8:00 am - 5:00 pm on weekdays and between 9:00 am - 5:00 pm on Saturdays. The use 
of leaf blowers is prohibited on Sundays and holidays. In addition, the code requires that leaf blowers run at low speeds 
and use nozzle extensions to minimize noise. These restrictions have been in place since 1997.
 
In 2011 through 2013, staff from the Community Development Department led a comprehensive exploration of leaf 
blower regulations in response to community complaints about noise and air quality impacts. Staff brought forward 
reports to City Council on five separate occasions.  At a March 2013 City Council meeting, staff presented three options for 
6 of 12

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
updating the leaf blower ordinance: 
1.
Improve enforcement of current ordinance, 
2.
Implement a certification and enforcement program limiting leaf blowers that meet a 65 decibel (dB) threshold, 
and
3.
Implement a complete ban on leaf blowers. 
 Ultimately, the City Council did not move forward to any of the three options primarily because of concerns of the 
economic impact to commercial landscapers and challenges with enforcement. Many of the commercial landscapers in San 
Mateo are small businesses or sole-proprietorships and many are also minority-owned. A complete leaf blower ban would 
require landscapers to spend more time per job site, impacting the number of jobs they could complete and therefore 
potentially reduce their revenues. Establishing a new decibel limit on leaf blowers would require many commercial 
landscapers to purchase new equipment, another financial burden to landscapers. If commercial landscapers passed on 
the cost of the new equipment or job time to their customers, concerns were raised regarding affordability for those with 
fixed incomes who rely on landscaping services. Additionally, for all of the policy options, City Council was concerned 
about the financial commitment from the City to develop effective enforcement. 
 
At the November 12, 2020, the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission received a report on leaf blower regulations 
and different policy approaches to restricting gas leaf blower use. Staff presented four options for consideration:
1.
Noise and/or time of day restrictions
2.
Temporary leaf blower ban days
3.
Gas leaf blower ban, and 
4.
Complete gas and electric leaf blower ban.
The majority of Commissioners declined to make a recommendation to City Council to update leaf blower regulations. 
Commissioners acknowledged that commercial landscapers, who are also small businesses, would be significantly 
impacted by potential leaf blower restrictions and were likely already struggling to retain customers in the face of the 
pandemic. Commissioners were also concerned about recommending the Council take up leaf blower regulations at a time 
when there were so many other pressing COVID-19 issues and community concerns. Finally, Commissioners were 
interested to understand CARB’s timeline to phase out the sale of new gas equipment to help evaluate potential leaf 
blower regulations. Commissioners directed staff to prioritize incentives for electric leaf blowers.  
In July 2021, staff launched the Electric Leaf Blower rebate program. The program provides a rebate of up to 75% of the 
purchase price (maximum $500) to commercial landscapers and up to 50% of the purchase price (maximum $100) to 
residents. Using the City’s business license information, two mailers were sent to landscaping business in San Mateo to 
alert businesses about the rebate opportunity. The mailing list included roughly 150 businesses. Rebate information was 
also included in the City’s e-newsletter and social media channels. To date, the City has issued 6 commercial landscaper 
rebates and 27 residential rebates. The average rebate for a commercial business is $319 and the average rebate for a 
resident is $76.
Electric Equipment and City Parks Operations 
City Parks staff have been piloting electric equipment since 2018 and recognizing the state’s goal to prohibit the sale of 
two-stroke engine equipment and the City’s climate goals, is preparing for a transition to electric equipment. During the FY 
2020-21, Parks purchased $8,000 in electric equipment including backpack and handheld blowers, hedge trimmers, chain 
saws and weed trimmers. 
Using the electric equipment in the Japanese Garden and on Spare the Air Days has helped Parks staff identify challenges 
and limitations of electric leaf blower technology. One major challenge with electric leaf blowers is battery life limitations. 
In most park settings a blower with 2 batteries provides about 45 minutes of use and requires 2 hours for recharge. While 
electric leaf blowers work well for small sites, they have been challenging to use at larger park settings where Parks staff 
would have to use multiple batteries. Another major limitation is the equipment performance. Handheld blowers result in 
ergonomic issues for the user and thus are only useful for low duration applications. In addition, electric leaf blowers are 
less powerful and therefore take staff longer to accomplish the same work compared to using gas leaf blowers. 
Parks staff provided cost estimates for transitioning to electric blower equipment. Currently Parks has an inventory of 12 
7 of 12

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
gas blowers. An electric backpack blower costs $300 plus four batteries that cost $300 each, amounting to $1,500 for each 
replacement. Parks estimates an $18,000 initial investment to replace the gas blower equipment and $14,000 every 2 
years for battery replacements. Additionally, there is also the cost of electricity and charging infrastructure. For 
comparison, a typical gas-powered blower costs $375 plus the cost of fuel. Parks’ main shop area requires $20,000 of 
electrical upgrades for charging batteries to use electric equipment on a consistent basis. Additional upgrades to field 
shops will be necessary but have not yet been evaluated. 
 
POLICY APPROACHES
There are three main policy approaches local jurisdictions use to regulate leaf blowers: 1) time of day restrictions, 2) gas 
leaf blower ban, and 3) complete gas and electric leaf blower ban. The following details the different policy approaches 
and provides examples of cities that have taken on the policy approach.
1)
Time of day restrictions
Enacting noise and time of day restrictions is the most common approach employed by jurisdictions to manage the noise 
impacts of leaf blower equipment. While time of use and noise restrictions are effective in managing noise pollution, they 
do not address environmental impact or smog forming emissions. Although the City of San Mateo currently has time of 
day restrictions and a nozzle extension requirement already in place, the City could explore establishing a schedule and 
zone system to manage leaf blowing activity and/or narrowing the time restrictions.  In addition, the City may want to 
consider expanding the time of day restrictions to impact areas of the City currently not covered by the ordinance as more 
mixed-use development is constructed in formerly commercial-only zones.
 
The City of Burlingame’s leaf blowing schedule and zone approach helps address noise pollution since it ensures that leaf 
blower activity only occurs on certain days in certain neighborhoods. The City of Burlingame adopted Leaf Blowing 
Regulations in 2012. Their ordinance requires the following:

Commercial blowers may be used on only ONE day per week, per area, with an extra day for R3 and R4 buildings 
on Fridays.

Residents may use their own blowers on Saturdays from 9:00 am to 2:00 pm and Sundays from 10:00 am to 2:00 
pm, as well as on their assigned weekday.
 The City of Burlingame developed a map to delineate the different neighborhood zones and schedules. This policy 
approach addresses noise pollution establishing a schedule to reduce the number of days blowers may be used in each 
neighborhood. Implementation of this ordinance relied on residents informing their gardening services of the operational 
requirements. 
 
Alternatively, some cities have narrower time restrictions than the City of San Mateo. For example, the Town of Atherton 
has a later leaf blower schedule for weekends: 10:00 am – 5:00 pm on Saturdays and 10:00 am – 3:00 pm on Sundays. This 
is likely because many feel that leaf blower noise is a nuisance on weekend mornings. 
2)
Gas leaf blower ban (allows electric leaf blower)
Banning gas leaf blowers helps reduce smog-forming emissions but only partially addresses the noise pollution aspect. 
Electric leaf blowers can be as loud as gas leaf blowers and will have similar impacts in terms of kicking up particles and 
creating fugitive dust. However, electric leaf blowers do not create engine-related fumes and thus can help mitigate air 
quality concerns. 
 
One of the primary concerns about electric leaf blowers include durability and battery life as discussed earlier in this report 
regarding City Parks operations. Electric leaf blowers can be cord-powered or battery-powered. Both types of electric leaf 
blowers can be easily adapted for most household personal use, but commercial landscapers must consider how long the 
equipment will last in the field. Cord-powered electric blowers are not viable on all types of property, limit the range of 
use, and are impractical for commercial landscapers. Battery-powered electric blowers require commercial landscapers to 
purchase multiple batteries, increasing the costs to landscapers. 
 
Over twenty cities in California have adopted gas leaf blower bans and recently, several Bay Area cities have taken up gas 
leaf blower bans. The Town of Portola Valley adopted a gas leaf blower ban in 2019 with an enforcement date of January 
8 of 12

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
2021; the City of Oakland adopted a ban in October 2020 with and enforcement date of April 2021; and the City of Novato 
adopted a ban in June 2022 with an enforcement date of July 2023. In February 2022, the Atherton Town Council were 
divided on whether to move forward with a gas leaf blower ban and directed staff to do more research and outreach to 
residents. The Menlo Park City Council will consider a gas leaf blower ban in 2023 with a July 2024 enforcement date. 
3)
Complete gas and electric leaf blower ban
Five jurisdictions in California adopted ordinances to ban gas and electric leaf blowers altogether. An outright ban on all 
mechanized blowers is probably easiest to enforce since it is clear when a user is in violation, as opposed to distinguishing 
when a blower is in compliance with a decibel noise limit regulation or if it is gas or electric-powered. A complete ban on 
gas and electric leaf blowers addresses all concerns related to noise, emissions and air quality, however, an outright ban 
would have significant impacts to commercial landscapers and City operations. By banning all leaf blower use, residents 
and commercial landscapers would need to rely on manual methods (i.e., raking, sweeping). This would greatly increase 
the time it takes for commercial landscapers to complete jobs. 
There are a limited number of cities in Southern California that have a gas and electric leaf blower ban including Santa 
Monica, Del Mar, Hermosa Beach, Laguna Beach and Manhattan Beach. As mentioned in an earlier section of this report, 
in 2013 City Council debated this policy option in depth and decided not to move forward with a ban because of the 
impact to commercial landscapers. 
COMMISSION DIRECTION REQUESTED
This report presents a high-level overview of the different policy options that can be considered to address community 
concerns over leaf blowers. Feedback is needed on these various policy options presented in this report. Staff will present 
Commission feedback to the City Council at a future study session to receive direction on which policy options to consider 
for future implementation. Community and stakeholder outreach would be conducted prior to moving forward with the 
adoption of any new policies. 
Potential leaf blower regulations would impact personal household leaf blower use, commercial landscaping businesses, 
and City operations. It is important to consider that each of the policy options have varying impact in terms of addressing 
leaf blower related noise pollution, air quality and greenhouse gas emission reduction. Implementing new leaf blower 
regulations would take a significant amount of staff resources including the necessary robust outreach to both residents 
and commercial landscapers and for enforcement of the regulations.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Receiving this informational report does not result in fiscal impact. Adoption of leaf blower regulations would have a fiscal 
impact that would be evaluated at time of consideration. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7007
9 of 12

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 22-6790
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 09, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, acting as the City of San Mateo's Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory 
Committee, receive an update on bicycle and pedestrian projects.
BACKGROUND:
Staff will present brief updates on the pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure projects and planning efforts.
Infrastructure Projects
Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor: Staff was awarded funds by the California Transportation Commission 
(CTC) Active Transportation Program (ATP) Cycle 5 call for projects for the Delaware Street Safe Routes to School bicycle 
project. This project’s intent is to implement the Delaware Street Class IV separated bike lane and Class III bicycle 
boulevard as planned in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan. This project provides necessary safety improvements in an area with 
a high level of traffic stress and history of collisions and will improve safety and connectivity to two public schools accessed 
from Delaware Street. Further, this project improves connectivity with the newly relocated Hillsdale Caltrain station from 
the north and south. The following is an update on this effort. 
•
Staff filed the Categorical Exemption (CE) for CEQA in Summer 2022 for the project. The CEQA document was 
certified in September 2022.
•
Staff intends to request the allocation of funds for design in early 2023 from the CTC. 
28th Avenue Gap Closure Project: Staff was awarded funds in the San Mateo County Transportation Authority Pedestrian 
and Bicycle Program Cycle 5 to fund the design and environmental review for the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access 
Gap Closure project. The project intent is to evaluate options and complete the design plans for the Class IV separated bike 
lane implementation identified in the adopted 2020 Bicycle Master Plan, in addition to bicycle and pedestrian connectivity 
across the intersection of 28th Avenue and El Camino Real. The following is an update on this effort. 
•
City Council awarded an agreement to Bellecci and Associates in September 2022. Staff has issued the Notice to 
Proceed for the project and is coordinating the kick-off activities with the consultant team. 
North Central Bike Lanes Project: This project included the 2nd and 4th highest priority projects in the 2020 Bicycle Master 
Plan, including a bicycle boulevard and bicycle lanes on Humboldt Street and bicycle lanes on Poplar and Indian Avenues to 
connect to the recently completed North San Mateo Drive project. Construction of the project was completed in late May 
2022. The following is an update on this effort. 
•
Staff implemented the pilot King Center Overnight Parking program in July 2022. In the initial pilot 
10 of 12

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
implementation, permits will be available free of charge monthly on a first-come, first-served basis to park 
between 10 pm and 8 am. In September, 9 permits were issued to residents, and 13 permits were issued in 
October. 
•
Staff launched a neighborhood survey to gain input regarding residential parking permits in June 2022. The survey 
was available online, and a mailed copy was sent to 3,000 households in the neighborhood. The survey closed on 
July 8, 2022. Staff received a total of 588 survey responses, and are in process of analyzing the data. At the same 
time, staff is scheduling a post-installation parking occupancy data collection to assess current neighborhood 
parking conditions. Staff intends to return to City Council with permit program feedback in mid-2023. 
Pavement Management Program Integration: Staff continues to integrate the implementation of bicycle facilities with 
scheduled pavement management projects where funding for design and construction is available and feasible. The 
following is an update on this effort. 
•
Smooth Streets Phase 3: This pavement management project includes installation of a bicycle boulevard on 
Sunnybrae Boulevard from S. Delaware Street to S. Amphlett Boulevard. The improvements include bicycle and 
pedestrian safety elements. Construction on this project started over the summer, with the bicycle improvements 
expected to be striped by early 2023.
•
Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package 3-B (Phase 1): This pavement management project includes Class II bike 
lanes on S. Humboldt Street from 5th to 9th Avenue and a bicycle boulevard on 5th Avenue. Construction of this 
project was completed in October 2022. 
•
Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package 3-B (Phase 2): This project includes the design and implementation of Class 
II buffered and standard bicycle lanes on Pacific Boulevard from Delaware Street to the City limit. Construction of 
this project was completed in October 2022.
•
4th and 5th Avenue Railroad Crossing Improvements Project: This project includes repaving approximately 100 
feet of roadway on both 4th Avenue and 5th Avenue, installation of a Class II bicycle lane on 5th Avenue between 
B Street and Railroad Avenue, and replacement of all striping, signage and markings within project limits (e.g. stop 
lines, lane markings, R&R pavement markings). Construction advertisement and award is expected in January 
2023, with construction expected to be complete by July 2023.
Planning Projects 
Transit-Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan: The City was awarded Transportation Development Act (TDA) 
Article 3 funds for this project, which will evaluate the full pedestrian path of travel to the City’s high-quality transit stops. 
The Plan will identify necessary improvements to create a safe and comfortable pedestrian realm within one-half mile of 
those locations. The following is an update on this effort. 
•
Staff presented the draft Plan to the Commission in October 2022. Feedback from the Commission and public 
comment will be incorporated as feasible in the document. 
•
Final adoption of the Plan is anticipated for November 2022.
Complete Streets Plan: A collaborative team of staff from Public Works, Community Development, and the City Manager’s 
Office submitted an application to the Caltrans Sustainable Communities FY 2021-22 Grant Program for the San Mateo 
Complete Streets Plan, and was awarded funding for the project in June 2021. This project will bring together the City’s 
various active transportation plans, Local Roadway Safety Plan, and the Green Infrastructure Plan to fully envision a 
multimodal transportation network and identify priority improvements for the City. The following is an update on this 
effort. 
•
City Council awarded an agreement to a consultant team led by Fehr & Peers in September 2022. 
•
Staff issued Notice to Proceed to the consultant team and is coordinating kick-off activities for the project.
Grants 
One Bay Area Grant (OBAG) 3: The Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) issued a Call for Projects for the most 
recent OBAG funding cycle. 
11 of 12

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
City staff submitted a grant application requesting $5M toward the construction of the Peninsula Interchange 
project, which includes bicycle and pedestrian improvements. C/CAG has recommended the project for $1M in 
funding toward design through OBAG 3 funding. MTC will approve final allocations for funding. 
•
Staff submitted a joint application with the San Mateo County Transportation Authority (SMCTA) for the 19th 
Avenue/Fashion Island Boulevard Class IV Bikeway project as part of the 101/92 Multimodal Projects. C/CAG 
recommended this project for full funding ($3.375M) from OBAG 3.
San Mateo County Transportation Authority (SMCTA) Pedestrian and Bicycle Program: SMCTA issued the call for projects 
for the current funding cycle in early August. 
•
Staff submitted an application for construction of the Downtown Parking Garage Pedestrian Safety Project. 
•
Staff also submitted a joint application with the SMCTA for the 19th Avenue/Fashion Island Boulevard Class IV 
Bikeway Project.
•
Draft recommendations for funding and approval by the SMCTA Board is expected in late 2022. 
Railroad Crossing Elimination Grant: US Department of Transportation Federal Railroad Administration issued a call for 
project in the summer of 2022.
•
City staff submitted a grant application on October 11, 2022 requesting $6M towards the development of a Project 
Study Report (PSR) and preliminary engineering plans/environmental documents (PE/ENV) for the Downtown San 
Mateo Grade Separations project. This project will evaluate options for grade separations throughout the 
Downtown area to eliminate all at-grade crossings. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with receiving this program update.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This bicycle and pedestrian program update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None.
STAFF CONTACT
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
12 of 12