Mayor Todd Gloria backs SDPD's use of ALPR technology Our newsletter has a new look Sign up for our daily digest of everything you need to know about San Diego — just the essentials, every morning. Sign up By clicking sign up, you agree to the terms . Close DONATE NEWSLETTER Search for: Search All Topics Latest Home Arts Business Health Immigration Politics Events Tiempos Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Beach and Bay Press (Pacific/Mission Beach) Downtown News La Jolla La Mesa Courier Mission Times (Navajo/College Area) Peninsula Beacon (Pt.Loma/Ocean Beach) Uptown News About Staff Contact Media Kit Real Estate Obituaries Guides Print Editions ASU NEWSWELL Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Close Skip to content About Staff Contact Media Kit Real Estate Obituaries Guides Print Editions ASU NEWSWELL Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Times of San Diego Local News and Opinion for San Diego DONATE NEWSLETTER Open Search Search for: Search Menu All Topics Latest Home Arts Business Health Immigration Politics Events Tiempos Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Beach and Bay Press (Pacific/Mission Beach) Downtown News La Jolla La Mesa Courier Mission Times (Navajo/College Area) Peninsula Beacon (Pt.Loma/Ocean Beach) Uptown News Posted in Crime Mayor Todd Gloria backs SDPD’s use of ALPR technology by City News Service Nov. 14, 2025, 9:27 a.m. Nov. 14, 2025, 9:30 a.m. Share this: Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Pinterest Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Print (Opens in new window) Print San Diego police cruisers. (File photo by Chris Stone/Times of San Diego) The San Diego Public Safety Committee approved the continued use of 54 surveillance technologies, including Automatic License Plate Readers, which the city’s law enforcement strongly recommended. ALPR technology is used as part of crime-fighting strategy that involves the identification of vehicles associated with suspects, witnesses or victims. The technology utilizes police ability to focus its investigative resources to deter crime and enhance public safety, according to the San Diego Police Department. San Diego Mayor Todd Gloria stated on social media that ALPR technology is a “proven tool that’s solved homicides, recovered stolen vehicles and stopped kidnappings.” “This is about keeping San Diego safe,” Gloria added. The following are ALPR areas of concern: San Diego seeks to shut down a Linda Vista massage parlor after years of complaints of prostitution 2 motorists killed in wrong-way crash on Interstate 5 'One Battle After Another' filmed in San Diego and won multiple Oscars. The mayor's budget cuts the staffer who helped bring it here. 19-year-old stabbed to death in grocery store parking lot in Point Loma Make Times of San Diego a preferred source on Google — to invade the privacy of individuals or observe areas where a reasonable expectation of privacy exists; — to be used in a discriminatory manner and to target protected individual characteristics, including race, color, ethnicity, religion, national origin, age, disability or gender; — to harass, intimidate or discriminate against any individual or group; — to violate any Constitutional rights, federal, state or local laws; — to be utilized for any personal purpose; — to investigate parking violations and to conduct traffic enforcement and; Just the essentials, every morning Our daily newsletter has a new look. Sign up to get San Diego’s top stories delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up By clicking sign up, you agree to the terms . — to indiscriminately view video without investigative or administrative need. “The operation and access to ALPR data shall be for official law enforcement purposes only,” the department said in a statement. The department states that since ALPR was launched in 2024, the technology has assisted the SDPD in 600 investigations, including the recovery of at least 20 firearms, $5.8 million in stolen property involving 440 stolen vehicles and resulted in more than 420 arrests. “The San Diego Police Department will also use ALPR systems to enhance and coordinate responses to active critical incidents and public threats, safeguard the lives of community members by using this technology to locate at-risk missing persons and to protect assets and resources of the city of San Diego,” the department added. In the first year of ALPR use, vehicle theft dropped 20% between 2023 and 2024, police officials stated. The Smart Streetlights System, which includes the situational cameras and the ALPR cameras, have been attached to streetlight poles throughout the city of San Diego since last year. Total Installation, activation and relocation costs for the Smart Streetlight Program was $3,519,300, according to the SDPD. The city council will revisit ALPR use in a meeting on Dec. 9. More information on smart streetlights and ALPR can be found at www.sandiego.gov/sites/default/files/technology-streetlights-lpr- presentation.pdf. –City News Service Tagged: ALPR technology , Todd Gloria Free neighborhood news in your inbox Join the 20,000+ people who get Times of San Diego in their inbox at 7 a.m. daily – plus breaking news alerts. And we have weekly updates from San Diego neighborhoods – select community news below. Pacific/Mission Beach Downtown La Jolla Uptown Point Loma/OB Navajo/College Area Mission Valley North County South Bay La Mesa Times of San Diego newsletter SIGN UP By clicking sign up, you agree to the terms . Local journalism needs your help At Times of San Diego, we’re committed to providing fact-based community journalism free of charge — but it’s expensive to produce. As a nonprofit newsroom, we rely on readers like you to chip in. Every dollar fuels our mission to keep San Diegans informed and connected to their neighborhoods. Will you help us strengthen local journalism and our communities? One-time Monthly Annually One-time $100 $180 $300 Other Donation amount $ Monthly $10 $15 $25 Other Donation amount per month $ Annually $120 $180 $300 Other Donation amount per year $ DONATE NOW More Stories 'One Battle After Another' filmed in San Diego and won multiple Oscars. The mayor's budget cuts the staffer who helped bring it here. Fernando Tatis Jr. loses petition over contract advance he signed as a teen, ordered to pay Big League Advance millions San Diego seeks to shut down a Linda Vista massage parlor after years of complaints of prostitution 19-year-old stabbed to death in grocery store parking lot in Point Loma Last year, 12 San Diego firefighters earned over $200,000 in overtime pay. One firefighter made $1.18 million in the past five years. State land-use law looming over La Mesa’s transit corridors ABOUT Donate Newsletters Corrections policy Contact us Advertising and sponsorship policies Reader submission guidelines and form Privacy statement Republication guidelines Additional policies and guidelines Terms of use Donor transparency Privacy Manager Support Local News San Diego residents need the truth. Help us report it. Join the growing list of donors investing in our community's long-term future. DONATE Privacy Manager © 2026 NEWSWELL Powered by Newspack Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Gift this article Close Link Copy link Privacy Manager