Candidates Bailey, Crosby spar over city budget, homelessness and ALPRs Close DONATE NEWSLETTER Search for: Search All Topics Latest Home Arts Business Health Immigration Politics Events Tiempos Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Beach and Bay Press (Pacific/Mission Beach) Downtown News La Jolla La Mesa Courier Mission Times (Navajo/College Area) Peninsula Beacon (Pt.Loma/Ocean Beach) Uptown News About Staff Contact Media Kit Obituaries Guides Print Editions ASU NEWSWELL Facebook Instagram RSS YouTube TikTok NextDoor Close Skip to content About Staff Contact Media Kit Obituaries Guides Print Editions ASU NEWSWELL Facebook Instagram RSS YouTube TikTok NextDoor Times of San Diego Local News and Opinion for San Diego DONATE NEWSLETTER Open Search Search for: Search Menu All Topics Latest Home Arts Business Health Immigration Politics Events Tiempos Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Beach and Bay Press (Pacific/Mission Beach) Downtown News La Jolla La Mesa Courier Mission Times (Navajo/College Area) Peninsula Beacon (Pt.Loma/Ocean Beach) Uptown News Posted in Politics Candidates Bailey, Crosby spar over city budget, homelessness and ALPRs by Tessa Balc • Times of San Diego Sept. 29, 2026, 3:41 p.m. Sept. 30, 2026, 10:40 a.m. Share this: Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Pinterest Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Print (Opens in new window) Print Bailey and Crosby sit side by side at the Sept. 28 forum (Photo by Tessa Balc/Times of San Diego) The two Candidates vying to represent San Diego’s District 2 — which covers Point Loma, Ocean Beach, Pacific Beach and Clairemont — faced off Monday over how to address city spending and homelessness, two reliable parts of any city debate. But at the evening candidate forum they also jumped in on the recently re-ignited debate over automated license plate readers. Both Nicole Crosby, a deputy city attorney, and Richard Bailey, the former mayor of Coronado, rehashed their respective positions on topics like the proposed Midway Rising development and Liberty Station leasing at the forum, hosted by the Point Loma Association and League of Women Voters at Liberty Station Conference Center. This time around, though, as the two candidates who survived the primary, they had more opportunities to take direct shots at one another ahead of the Nov. 3 general election. The first question of the night, about where the budget should be cut, provided Bailey the opportunity to repeat a mantra from his campaign: The city has a spending problem not a revenue problem. The solution, he says, does not necessitate cuts to programs, but significant trims to personnel – as in back to 2015 staffing levels. “We have to restructure City Hall, starting with cutting back personnel across most departments, so that we can actually do more with less instead of doing less with more.” For Crosby, this line of reasoning was an opportunity to question if it is effective to compare two different decades in city government, whether based on nationwide inflation or the city’s specific circumstances. “If we’re looking at a 2015 baseline number that Mr. Bailey would like you to look at, we need to remember that we were operating with a shoestring budget,” she said. “Proposition B and the pension decimation and salary freezes in that era destroyed (the) city infrastructure we had, and I mean human capital as opposed to the longstanding infrastructure we have.” Instead, she believes the city does not need to rein in staffing, but to audit current contracts and leasing agreements while going after grants, a key piece of her proposed financial platform. Bailey challenged Crosby’s revenue stances, calling her proposed reevaluation of lease agreements insignificant in the scheme of the city’s budget woes. Auditing, he argued, is already in place. “A comment was made earlier that we just need to do more audits. Well, the city has an internal auditor,” Bailey said. “They did 45 audits for the past five years. 20% of those recommendations still haven’t been implemented by our current city council and mayor.” Despite wanting to reduce staffing across the board, there are positions that Bailey would like to fill. For one, he wants to bring back a city manager, doing away with the strong mayor form of government. Crosby was less concrete on her personal feelings toward hiring a city manager, deferring to the will of the voters. In addition, in an effort to reduce overtime spending, Bailey wants to see the city hire more police officers. This, he says, would lead to quicker response times as well, amid a rise in calls for service for homeless individuals. Bailey’s approach to homelessness in San Diego would be to advocate for more enforcement of ordinances like not allowing vehicle habitation. bi-weekly SD in DC Wonder what our elected officials are up to in Washington D.C.? Our correspondent Alysa Horton will give you the rundown on national legislation with San Diego in mind every other Friday at noon. Email Address SIGN UP By clicking sign up, you agree to the terms . Crosby called out these policies in tandem, saying she believes homeless enforcement is not the best use of police resources and that those without shelter need housing and treatment to be able to make their way out of the system. “I’m so glad that he proved my point because enforcing homelessness using police officers is not a way to do business. That is not a good use of city resources,” she said. “What’s important is things have gotten more expensive, and overtime is more expensive. San Diego is a giant city, and there are people here that deserve to have their priority-one calls responded to in a very quick manner.” An element of San Diego policing that residents didn’t bring up at the primary candidate forums in the spring was Automated License Plate Readers. Despite being a point of debate in pockets of San Diego for years, the topic has hit the national stage and enlivened the local discussion. Crosby said that she neither supports nor trusts Flock, the ALPR vendor for San Diego police,,aggregating government data for private purposes. “I don’t trust the entities that are controlling that information, but I do trust our local San Diego police officers, and I think it’s really important for our officers to be able to talk to people, do the real investigation, because errors happen, and we need to make sure that our communities are safe and they’re not being overrun by big brother Flock,” she said. Bailey said that as a “civil libertarian” he is keenly aware of the slippery slope of government surveillance. “It’s something that we all, as Americans, should be keenly aware of and do whatever we can to keep that from happening,” he said. Though, he said, after reviewing the city’s systems he believes private Ring cameras around the city have more surveillance power than the city’s ALPR technology. For him, it’s an issue of placing more guardrails around the technology. He proposed that the public database that logs ALPR searches should include license plate numbers, so residents can see if they are actively being surveilled. He also said he would like to see the city delete data after a week rather than a month. Bailey called Crosby’s opposition to the technology surprising considering the city attorney’s office has signed off on the technology for years. In their closing remarks both candidates continued to work to draw a bright line differentiating themselves from each other. Bailey made an effort not only to paint his views as contrary to Crosby’s but also to each of the current councilmembers. He said that the present composition of the council, made up of primarily former government employees and community activists, made him want to run to offer someone with experience in the private sector. “I’m running to offer an alternative perspective on the city council. Right now, it seems that the city council is balanced between higher taxes and fees with lower service, and even higher taxes and fees with even lower service,” he said. Crosby quickly noted her private sector experience in her closing remarks, apologizing partially in jest that she did not note her experience as a commercial real estate broker, or a California Pizza Kitchen server. She went on to repeat her main talking point, bringing evidence-based solutions to City Hall, while taking a subtle dig at Bailey’s stances throughout the night. “I actually bring real solutions. I’m not here to talk to everybody about jargon and numbers taken out of context,” she said. What we actually need to do is show up and do the work for the people who it matters for, and that’s all of you.” Tagged: 2026 elections , City Council , Nicole Crosby , Richard Bailey Free neighborhood news in your inbox Join the 20,000+ people who get Times of San Diego in their inbox at 7 a.m. daily – plus breaking news alerts. And we have weekly updates from San Diego neighborhoods – select community news below. Pacific/Mission Beach Downtown La Jolla Uptown Point Loma/OB Navajo/College Area Mission Valley North County South Bay La Mesa Times of San Diego newsletter SIGN UP By clicking sign up, you agree to the terms . More Stories California community colleges can offer up to 12 new bachelor’s degrees under laws Newsom signed La Playa Taco Shop closes after owner deported by ICE Trump administration accused of contempt of court over order to resume Green Card lottery Another San Diego-based aircraft carrier departs for the Middle East San Diego County's iconic coastal locations face triple threat from 'Super El Niño' Padres clinch playoff spot, now final weekend of season will determine if Wild Card round is at Petco ABOUT Donate Newsletters Corrections policy Contact us Advertising and sponsorship policies Reader submission guidelines and form Privacy statement Republication guidelines Additional policies and guidelines Terms of use Donor transparency Legal Ads Privacy Manager Support Local News San Diego residents need the truth. Help us report it. Join the growing list of donors investing in our community's long-term future. DONATE Privacy Manager © 2026 NEWSWELL Powered by Newspack Facebook Instagram RSS YouTube TikTok NextDoor Start your day with the essentials Sign up for our daily digest of everything you need to know about San Diego — just the essentials, every morning. Sign up By clicking sign up, you agree to the terms . Gift this article Close Link Copy link Privacy Manager