ACLU asks court to compel San Diego to do away with Flock cameras, stored data Close DONATE NEWSLETTER Search for: Search All Topics Latest Home Arts Business Health Immigration Politics Events Tiempos Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Beach and Bay Press (Pacific/Mission Beach) Downtown News La Jolla La Mesa Courier Mission Times (Navajo/College Area) Peninsula Beacon (Pt.Loma/Ocean Beach) Uptown News About Staff Contact Media Kit Obituaries Guides Print Editions ASU NEWSWELL Facebook Instagram RSS YouTube TikTok NextDoor Close Skip to content About Staff Contact Media Kit Obituaries Guides Print Editions ASU NEWSWELL Facebook Instagram RSS YouTube TikTok NextDoor Times of San Diego Local News and Opinion for San Diego DONATE NEWSLETTER Open Search Search for: Search Menu All Topics Latest Home Arts Business Health Immigration Politics Events Tiempos Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Beach and Bay Press (Pacific/Mission Beach) Downtown News La Jolla La Mesa Courier Mission Times (Navajo/College Area) Peninsula Beacon (Pt.Loma/Ocean Beach) Uptown News Posted in Politics ACLU asks court to compel San Diego to do away with Flock cameras, stored data by Tessa Balc • Times of San Diego Sept. 30, 2026, 4:17 p.m. Sept. 30, 2026, 4:50 p.m. Share this: Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Pinterest Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Print (Opens in new window) Print Two organizations have joined forces to seek an injunction against the city of San Diego over the San Diego Police Department’s use of automated license plate readers. They’re asking the court to make the city stop using ALPRs and terminate contracts associated with the technology, while uninstalling all streetlight cameras that operate as readers and deleting all the stored data that has been collected by the systems. On Wednesday, the ACLU Foundation of San Diego & Imperial Counties and the Partnership for the Advancement of New Americans, the plaintiffs in the case, stood in front of the Hall of Justice in Downtown San Diego to announce the suit. Attorneys and community activists gather after announcing a lawsuit against the city in an attempt to stop mass surveillance through ALPRs (Photo by Tessa Balc/Times of San Diego) The plaintiffs argue that the technology, due to the high density of cameras throughout the city of San Diego, violates the right to privacy protected in the California constitution. By retaining ALPR data for a month-long period, the plaintiffs claim SDPD can create a pattern based on people’s movements throughout the city – and others with whom they associate too. “And let’s be clear: These cameras do not just take an individual snapshot of an individual license plate so that somebody’s car can be looked up later,” Frederick Carroll, legal director at the ACLU foundation, said. “They work like every other camera. They contain the whole image that the lens sees. So that includes make, model, color, license plate, bumper stickers, identifying insignia, the ball cap you’re wearing when your window’s down, the tattoos you’re showing when your arm’s out the window.” bi-weekly SD in DC Wonder what our elected officials are up to in Washington D.C.? Our correspondent Alysa Horton will give you the rundown on national legislation with San Diego in mind every other Friday at noon. Email Address SIGN UP By clicking sign up, you agree to the terms . While the speakers highlighted the technology’s capabilities, they were also quick to point out its shortcomings. They cited a Times of San Diego report , also included in the lawsuit, that found a man had been wrongfully identified as the perpetrator of a crime by a Flock camera, and spent time in jail despite being innocent. Homayra Yusufi, a senior policy strategist at PANA, said that despite being touted as a tool to be used in an emergency, ALPRs did not direct law enforcement toward the scene of May’s fatal mosque shooting in time to prevent it. “My community was ravaged in May after white supremacists shot and killed members of my community. On that horrific day, ALPRs were not just an affront to our democracy, but they were ineffective,” she said. “So when you compile the fact(s) that these are ineffective technologies and who they are surveilling and targeting, we have to recognize that this technology is being used against us, not for us.” Carroll told Times of San Diego that to their knowledge this is the only local lawsuit targeting a city in an attempt to discontinue its use of ALPRs under the California constitution. He said, though, that there are complementary efforts, including a case in Northern California called Siren v. San Jose . Seth Hall, of the Trust SD Coalition, formed in 2019 to push back against and promote responsible use of the smart streetlights in wide use across San Diego, said he believes the track the city is on is a slippery slope. “When’s it going to be a big enough deal? Hall said. “Is it when the skies are filled with drones? When the police are able to pull the RIng doorbells, and the smart streetlights and the Flocks and the drones together to create a god’s eye view? Is that too much? For me the line has been crossed a long time ago.” The San Diego City Attorney’s Office declined to comment on pending litigation. Tagged: ALPR technology , San Diego , San Diego Police Department Free neighborhood news in your inbox Join the 20,000+ people who get Times of San Diego in their inbox at 7 a.m. daily – plus breaking news alerts. And we have weekly updates from San Diego neighborhoods – select community news below. Pacific/Mission Beach Downtown La Jolla Uptown Point Loma/OB Navajo/College Area Mission Valley North County South Bay La Mesa Times of San Diego newsletter SIGN UP By clicking sign up, you agree to the terms . More Stories California community colleges can offer up to 12 new bachelor’s degrees under laws Newsom signed Trump administration accused of contempt of court over order to resume Green Card lottery Another San Diego-based aircraft carrier departs for the Middle East Cloudy San Diego weather likely to give way to another round of heat and dryness Governor signs Midway Rising bill, clears path for final approval of embattled housing, retail project Here's where you can pick up sandbags to prepare for El Niño storm flooding ABOUT Donate Newsletters Corrections policy Contact us Advertising and sponsorship policies Reader submission guidelines and form Privacy statement Republication guidelines Additional policies and guidelines Terms of use Donor transparency Legal Ads Privacy Manager Support Local News San Diego residents need the truth. Help us report it. Join the growing list of donors investing in our community's long-term future. DONATE Privacy Manager © 2026 NEWSWELL Powered by Newspack Facebook Instagram RSS YouTube TikTok NextDoor Start your day with the essentials Sign up for our daily digest of everything you need to know about San Diego — just the essentials, every morning. Sign up By clicking sign up, you agree to the terms . Gift this article Close Link Copy link Privacy Manager