The city of San Diego currently owns 505 ALPR cameras. Here’s which neighborhoods have the most. Close DONATE NEWSLETTER Search for: Search All Topics Latest Home Arts Business Health Immigration Politics Events Tiempos Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Beach and Bay Press (Pacific/Mission Beach) Downtown News La Jolla La Mesa Courier Mission Times (Navajo/College Area) Peninsula Beacon (Pt.Loma/Ocean Beach) Uptown News About Staff Contact Media Kit Obituaries Guides Print Editions ASU NEWSWELL Facebook Instagram RSS YouTube TikTok NextDoor Close Skip to content About Staff Contact Media Kit Obituaries Guides Print Editions ASU NEWSWELL Facebook Instagram RSS YouTube TikTok NextDoor Downtown News Local News and Opinion for San Diego DONATE NEWSLETTER Open Search Search for: Search Menu All Topics Latest Home Arts Business Health Immigration Politics Events Tiempos Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Beach and Bay Press (Pacific/Mission Beach) Downtown News La Jolla La Mesa Courier Mission Times (Navajo/College Area) Peninsula Beacon (Pt.Loma/Ocean Beach) Uptown News Posted in Tech The city of San Diego currently owns 505 ALPR cameras. Here’s which neighborhoods have the most. by Tessa Balc • Times of San Diego Oct. 2, 2026, 5:04 p.m. Oct. 2, 2026, 5:19 p.m. Share this: Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Pinterest Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Print (Opens in new window) Print An automated license plate reader and smart streetlight camera on the corner of Second Avenue and Cedar Street. (File photo by Gabrielle Wallace/Times of San Diego) On Sept. 30 the ACLU Foundation and Partnership for the Advancement of New Americans filed a petition in court to force the city of San Diego to end its use of automated license plate reader technology. They argue that a mass surveillance network violates California’s right to privacy and allows the government opportunities to trace the actions of everyday San Diegans and target marginalized individuals based on traits like socioeconomic status, race or religion. Times of San Diego wanted to see which neighborhoods have the most cameras and the highest concentration of cameras. To analyze the density, Times of San Diego obtained the license plate reader locations and used the community boundaries as set in all community plans citywide. Nearly 20% of the city’s share of cameras are in two communities: Southeastern San Diego, which has 54 cameras, and Downtown, which has 42 cameras. Moving down the list of the most cameras per community, Encanto comes in third with 34 cameras, followed by Otay Mesa 33, City Heights 27, San Ysidro and University both with 26, Barrio Logan with 21 and Mission Valley and Mira Mesa both with 20. Downtown is the most densely populated with cameras. Just the essentials, every morning Sign up to get San Diego’s top stories delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up By clicking sign up, you agree to the terms . Get Downtown News in your inbox – community news that connects and informs. Sign up to get free Downtown San Diego news weekly – along with the Times of San Diego daily at 7 a.m. and breaking news. Update at any time. By clicking sign up, you agree to the terms . SIGN UP There are 17.8 cameras per square mile in the area. Old Town comes next with nearly 14 cameras per square mile. Barrio Logan has around 13 per square mile, and Southeastern San Diego has around 11 per square mile. Out of 52 communities in San Diego, there are 15 without city-owned ALPRs. There are many additional cameras owned and operated by third parties throughout the city. Communities without city-owned ALPRs are: East Elliot, Torrey Hills, Los Penasquitos Canyon, Pacific Highlands Ranch, Del Mar Mesa, Tijuana River Valley, North City Future Urbanizing Area, Via de la Valle, Rancho Penasquitos, Skyline-Paradise Hills, Black Mountain Ranch, Mission Beach, Rancho Encantada, Fairbanks Ranch Country Club and San Pasqual. You can find your community in the chart below. You can find where city-owned ALPRs are located here . As SDPD’s police beat boundaries break down areas like downtown into much smaller segments like Little Italy and Petco Park, the layout for which areas hold the most ALPRs looks slightly different. Out of the 125 police beats in San Diego, 80 of those have at least one ALPR. Per police beat, the most cameras are located in University City, coming in at 23. Lincoln Park and Barrio Logan each have 21. East Village and San Ysidro have 20. You can find the breakdown in the chart below. Tagged: flock cameras , San Diego Free neighborhood news in your inbox Join the 20,000+ people who get Times of San Diego in their inbox at 7 a.m. daily – plus breaking news alerts. And we have weekly updates from San Diego neighborhoods – select community news below. Pacific/Mission Beach Downtown La Jolla Uptown Point Loma/OB Navajo/College Area Mission Valley North County South Bay La Mesa Times of San Diego newsletter SIGN UP By clicking sign up, you agree to the terms . More Stories SDG&E power shutoffs start; could affect thousands of customers as temperatures soar California community colleges can offer up to 12 new bachelor’s degrees under laws Newsom signed Trump administration accused of contempt of court over order to resume Green Card lottery Another San Diego-based aircraft carrier departs for the Middle East Governor signs Midway Rising bill, clears path for final approval of embattled housing, retail project Cloudy San Diego weather likely to give way to another round of heat and dryness ABOUT Donate Newsletters Corrections policy Contact us Advertising and sponsorship policies Reader submission guidelines and form Privacy statement Republication guidelines Additional policies and guidelines Terms of use Donor transparency Legal Ads Privacy Manager Support Local News San Diego residents need the truth. Help us report it. Join the growing list of donors investing in our community's long-term future. DONATE Privacy Manager © 2026 NEWSWELL Powered by Newspack Facebook Instagram RSS YouTube TikTok NextDoor Start your day with the essentials Sign up for our daily digest of everything you need to know about San Diego — just the essentials, every morning. Sign up By clicking sign up, you agree to the terms . Gift this article Close Link Copy link Privacy Manager