--- page 1 ---
64
64°
Tallahassee
Tallahassee, , FL
FL
Tallahassee Commission to discuss ALPR
use at upcoming meeting
A report says the cameras helped solve multiple attempted murder or
homicide cases in Tallahassee between 2022 and 2026
Commissioners are once again set to discuss automated license plate readers (ALPR) like Flock at next
week’s commission meeting.
By Jay Harrison
Published: Sep. 3, 2026 at 8:43 PM UTC

News
News
Watch Live
Watch Live
Weather
Weather
Sports
Sports
Community
Community
Lanetra's Last Lap
Lanetra's Last Lap

ADVERTISEMENT
Share


--- page 2 ---
Add Us
On Google
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (WCTV) - Commissioners are once again set to discuss automated license
plate readers (ALPR) like Flock at next week’s commission meeting.
This is back on the city’s agenda after Gov. Ron DeSantis ordered the cameras removed from
state roadways. During the city’s last meeting, Chief Lawrence Revell defended the cameras’
usefulness, particularly for burglaries, missing persons, and solving several violent crimes.
According to the agenda item, the city operates 75 Vigilant-brand license plate cameras and 80
by Flock. At the last meeting, Commissioner Jeremy Matlow made a motion to end the city’s
contract with Flock, citing privacy concerns.
That motion failed 3 to 2.
Matlow, who’s also running for mayor, said many residents he’s spoken to still see the cameras
as privacy violations and over-surveillance.
“They look at it as the city going too far and tracing people’s whereabouts,” said Matlow. “We’ve
seen misuse of the system all across the country, officers being arrested, stalking ex-girlfriends,
all types of things.
When we look at civil liberties, is this going too far? Is this the best tool in giving it all that private
data to a company is that the best thing that government should be doing?"


--- page 3 ---
The report goes on to say the cameras helped solve multiple attempted murder or homicide
cases in Tallahassee between 2022 and 2026. That includes the 2022 FAMU basketball court
shooting and another homicide last year on Texas Street.
TPD says license plate readers helped them match suspects with vehicles in both of those cases.
The report continues that the camera data can be kept up to 30 days and audited regularly for
inappropriate use.
Last week, Revell stood firm in his stance on the cameras.
The Supreme Court has ruled in at least in over 20 different cases that
there is no expectation of privacy in public places. So, when people say
this is a constitutional issue, it is clearly not. It does have to do with our
privacy and we do need to have those discussions and how much we
want technology to be involved in that.
— Chief Lawrence Revell


--- page 4 ---
Copyright 2026 WCTV. All rights reserved.
The new transparency portal launched last week says more than 1,300 camera searches were
made in the past month for investigative purposes.
Tune in to Eyewitness News at 5 p.m. and 6 p.m. for the full story. This article will also be
updated this evening with all the details.
To keep up with the latest news as it develops, follow WCTV on Facebook, Instagram, YouTube,
Nextdoor and X (Twitter).
Have a news tip or see an error? Write to us here. Please include the article’s headline in your
message.
Be the first to see all the biggest headlines by downloading the WCTV News app. Click here to
get started.
Memory Health Journal | Sponsored
The Overlooked Boxed Cereal Linked To Memory Loss
gadgets | Sponsored
Best Christmas Gift: Here Are 27+ Of The Coolest Gifts For 2026
Shop Now
Comparisons.org | Sponsored
Wyoming: Worst Car Insurance Companies for Overcharging (Is Yours On The List?)
Drivers Had No Idea They Could Do This
Learn More
Auto Insurance | Sponsored
Wyoming: Worst Car Insurance Companies for Overcharging (Is Yours…
Learn more

--- page 5 ---
Health Journal | Sponsored
Today 55+: Neuro Health | Sponsored
The Real Reason Your Lower Back Hurts Might Surprise You
Yahoo | Sponsored
Related Searches
Search for Local 2 Bedroom Homes for Seniors Over 60 on Yahoo. View top results now.
Learn more
Misplacing Things Lately? Experts Say: Notice If You Often Say These 3 Phrases
Most Read
ADVERTISEMENT
 Tallahassee man arrested, charged with sexual battery
on a teen
 Woman working as DoorDash driver identified after dismembered remains were found
in plastic tub


--- page 6 ---
 Football Friday Night: Sept. 25 scoreboard and full
replay
 Man accused of molesting teen at Tallahassee
apartment complex
Live Oak man found guilty in 2024 killing of Blake Reaves
after 4-day trial
Georgia mother warns of kratom dangers after husband’s
death, lawmaker calls for action
Football Friday Night’s Play of the Week: Vote for your
favorite play!
Tallahassee man convicted of sexually assaulting teen in Panama City Beach


--- page 7 ---
Latest News
Two seasons in one day to wrap up the weekend🍁☀️

Thousands gather in Panacea for 49th annual Blue Crab
Festival
‘Still not done’: Taylor County EOC director reflects on
Hurricane Helene damage two years later
Fishing tournament raises money for Dixie County first
responders
Live Oak man found guilty in 2024 killing of Blake Reaves
after 4-day trial


--- page 8 ---
Thomas County Democrats rally against Flock cameras,
citing privacy concerns
Florida Politics Now - Sept. 26, 2026

Man accused of molesting teen at Tallahassee apartment
complex


Home
News
Weather
Sports
Contact Us
WCTV Jobs
Submit Photos
and Videos
WCTV
1801 Halstead Blvd.
Tallahassee, FL 32309
(850) 893-6666
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
FCC Applications
FCC Applications
Advertising
Digital Marketing
Public Inspection File
WCTV-PublicFile@gray.tv - (850) 893-6666
EEO Statement
Closed Captioning/Audio Description
Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence.
A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026