Gov. DeSantis bans Flock cameras from state highways Skip to content Something Good Submissions Scholar Athlete Submissions Contests ShareIt! Meet the Team Contact Us News Watch Live Weather Sports Community Lanetra's Last Lap Election 2026 Submit a News Tip Telemundo Home News Big Bend Capital City South Georgia Crime One Year Since Fatal FSU Shooting Education National Politics Special Reports State Traffic Weather First Alert Weather Now First Alert Day First Alert Radar Map Room Severe Weather Center Weather Watchers Wildfire Forecast Hurricane Special 2026 Hurricane Headquarters Sports Play of the Week Scholar Athlete College High School Seminoles Rattlers Blazers Eagles FHSAA/SSAA GHSA/GIAA Scoreboard Scholar Athlete Submissions Livestream Community Community Classroom GIVETLH Furry Fridays Let's Do Lunch Gas Prices In The Spotlight Mindful Moment Teacher of the Month We the People Aging Untold Meet the Team Something Good Whats Brewing Recipes Mr. Food Contests Submit A News Tip Behind the Business Eye on Health Programming Schedule WCTV Experts ShareIt! NextGen TV Contact Us TV Listings NEXTGEN TV WCTV Careers Gray Careers Internships WCTV-2 Community Partners Community Calendar Submissions WCTV Daily Email Where to find WFXU Circle Country Local News Live InvestigateTV Watching Your Wallet PowerNation Usual Suspects Tallahassee Skyview Digital Marketing Gray AI Policy Gov. DeSantis bans Flock cameras from state highways Florida Governor Ron DeSantis said he’s removing Flock cameras from state roadways. By Matt Hoffmann Published: Sep. 1, 2026 at 3:14 AM GMT+8 Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (WCTV) - Florida Governor Ron DeSantis said he’s removing Flock cameras from state roadways. The announcement comes amid a growing concern over the misuse of automated license plate readers. On Monday, DeSantis ordered all Flock cameras removed from what he calls the “state highway system” within the next 30 days, which would include interstates like I-10 and I-75. That order led to several sheriff’s departments like in Franklin, Liberty and Putnam Counties to announce they’re ending their own license plate reader programs. Florida politics: According to the Florida Department of Transportation memo, if the cameras aren’t removed from the state right-of-ways within 30 days, then the state government will take them down on their own. RELATED COVERAGE | DeSantis calls license plate reader use ‘out of control’ The memo also says FDOT will deny any other permits for cameras in the future. DeSantis says that while his administration is pro law enforcement, there have been growing signs of camera misuse, and a concerns about surveillance. “But, you also have to say, okay, how could this be misused? And how could a private company misuse the data, but also law enforcement? We know there was an officer in Florida who was using the LPR data to track like an ex-girlfriend or something like that,” DeSantis said. The new order only applies to the “State Highway System,” so it appears cameras can remain on city and county roads unless the legislature moves to further restrict the cameras next year. It’s worth noting this memo is essentially an executive order from the governor, and could be revoked by whoever takes over the position in January. That’s why DeSantis called for a legislative solution next spring. Copyright 2026 WCTV. All rights reserved. Most Read President of Leon County non-profit denied bond Friday in connection to child abuse charges; mother, neighbor say they’re happy with the decision VPD: Pedestrian hit, killed by train in Valdosta Millions more Amazon Prime refunds are coming: Here’s how you could get up to $200 New details emerge in deadly Gadsden County crash involving fleeing vehicle Tallahassee man pleads no contest to 2024 deadly shooting Wrong speed limit sign on Tennessee Street causes commuter confusion Florida Bar exam results reveal scores of state law schools Football Friday Night: Sept. 18 scoreboard and full replay Latest News ‘Sweetest, most loving kids’: Mayo community remembers 3 siblings killed in crash, one year later VPD: Pedestrian hit, killed by train in Valdosta Florida Politics Now - Sept. 19, 2026 Cherry Rankin makes loaded sweet potato & white potato tailgate bites WCTV Sports Overtime: Alison and Ryan break down this week’s biggest moments A nice start to the weekend, some evening showers VPD: Pedestrian hit, killed by train in Valdosta Franklin County Sheriff pushes back on costly Flock contract after state removal call Home News Weather Sports Contact Us WCTV Jobs Submit Photos and Videos WCTV 1801 Halstead Blvd. Tallahassee, FL 32309 (850) 893-6666 Terms of Service Privacy Policy FCC Applications FCC Applications Advertising Digital Marketing Public Inspection File WCTV-PublicFile@gray.tv - (850) 893-6666 EEO Statement Closed Captioning/Audio Description Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence. A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026 search by queryly Advanced Search