Tallahassee Commission to discuss ALPR use at upcoming meeting Skip to content Something Good Submissions Scholar Athlete Submissions Contests ShareIt! Meet the Team Contact Us News Watch Live Weather Sports Community Lanetra's Last Lap Election 2026 Submit a News Tip Telemundo Home News Big Bend Capital City South Georgia Crime One Year Since Fatal FSU Shooting Education National Politics Special Reports State Traffic Weather First Alert Weather Now First Alert Day First Alert Radar Map Room Severe Weather Center Weather Watchers Wildfire Forecast Hurricane Special 2026 Hurricane Headquarters Sports Play of the Week Scholar Athlete College High School Seminoles Rattlers Blazers Eagles FHSAA/SSAA GHSA/GIAA Scoreboard Scholar Athlete Submissions Livestream Community Community Classroom GIVETLH Furry Fridays Let's Do Lunch! Gas Prices In The Spotlight Mindful Moment Teacher of the Month We the People Aging Untold Meet the Team Something Good Whats Brewing Recipes Mr. Food Contests Submit A News Tip Behind the Business Eye on Health Programming Schedule WCTV Experts ShareIt! NextGen TV Contact Us TV Listings NEXTGEN TV WCTV Careers Gray Careers Internships WCTV-2 Community Partners Community Calendar Submissions WCTV Daily Email Where to find WFXU Circle Country Local News Live InvestigateTV Watching Your Wallet PowerNation Usual Suspects Tallahassee Skyview Digital Marketing Gray AI Policy Tallahassee Commission to discuss ALPR use at upcoming meeting A report says the cameras helped solve multiple attempted murder or homicide cases in Tallahassee between 2022 and 2026 Commissioners are once again set to discuss automated license plate readers (ALPR) like Flock at next week’s commission meeting. By Jay Harrison Published: Sep. 3, 2026 at 8:43 PM UTC Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (WCTV) - Commissioners are once again set to discuss automated license plate readers (ALPR) like Flock at next week’s commission meeting. This is back on the city’s agenda after Gov. Ron DeSantis ordered the cameras removed from state roadways. During the city’s last meeting, Chief Lawrence Revell defended the cameras’ usefulness, particularly for burglaries, missing persons, and solving several violent crimes. According to the agenda item, the city operates 75 Vigilant-brand license plate cameras and 80 by Flock. At the last meeting, Commissioner Jeremy Matlow made a motion to end the city’s contract with Flock, citing privacy concerns. That motion failed 3 to 2. Matlow, who’s also running for mayor, said many residents he’s spoken to still see the cameras as privacy violations and over-surveillance. “They look at it as the city going too far and tracing people’s whereabouts,” said Matlow. “We’ve seen misuse of the system all across the country, officers being arrested, stalking ex-girlfriends, all types of things. When we look at civil liberties, is this going too far? Is this the best tool in giving it all that private data to a company is that the best thing that government should be doing?" The report goes on to say the cameras helped solve multiple attempted murder or homicide cases in Tallahassee between 2022 and 2026. That includes the 2022 FAMU basketball court shooting and another homicide last year on Texas Street. TPD says license plate readers helped them match suspects with vehicles in both of those cases. The report continues that the camera data can be kept up to 30 days and audited regularly for inappropriate use. Last week, Revell stood firm in his stance on the cameras. The Supreme Court has ruled in at least in over 20 different cases that there is no expectation of privacy in public places. So, when people say this is a constitutional issue, it is clearly not. It does have to do with our privacy and we do need to have those discussions and how much we want technology to be involved in that. Chief Lawrence Revell The new transparency portal launched last week says more than 1,300 camera searches were made in the past month for investigative purposes. Tune in to Eyewitness News at 5 p.m. and 6 p.m. for the full story. This article will also be updated this evening with all the details. To keep up with the latest news as it develops, follow WCTV on Facebook , Instagram , YouTube , Nextdoor and X ( Twitter ). Have a news tip or see an error? Write to us here . Please include the article’s headline in your message. Be the first to see all the biggest headlines by downloading the WCTV News app. Click here to get started. Copyright 2026 WCTV. All rights reserved. Most Read Tallahassee man arrested, charged with sexual battery on a teen Woman working as DoorDash driver identified after dismembered remains were found in plastic tub Football Friday Night: Sept. 25 scoreboard and full replay Man accused of molesting teen at Tallahassee apartment complex Live Oak man found guilty in 2024 killing of Blake Reaves after 4-day trial Georgia mother warns of kratom dangers after husband’s death, lawmaker calls for action Football Friday Night’s Play of the Week: Vote for your favorite play! Tallahassee man convicted of sexually assaulting teen in Panama City Beach Latest News Two seasons in one day to wrap up the weekend🍁☀️ Thousands gather in Panacea for 49th annual Blue Crab Festival ‘Still not done’: Taylor County EOC director reflects on Hurricane Helene damage two years later Fishing tournament raises money for Dixie County first responders Live Oak man found guilty in 2024 killing of Blake Reaves after 4-day trial Thomas County Democrats rally against Flock cameras, citing privacy concerns Florida Politics Now - Sept. 26, 2026 Man accused of molesting teen at Tallahassee apartment complex Home News Weather Sports Contact Us WCTV Jobs Submit Photos and Videos WCTV 1801 Halstead Blvd. Tallahassee, FL 32309 (850) 893-6666 Terms of Service Privacy Policy FCC Applications FCC Applications Advertising Digital Marketing Public Inspection File WCTV-PublicFile@gray.tv - (850) 893-6666 EEO Statement Closed Captioning/Audio Description Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence. A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026 search by queryly Advanced Search