source: packet.pdf
sha256: 5405a597b2e75e84ac4fe0a13a2876e744025b3613ea61758009f4b1a9920126
pages: 44
ocr_pages: 11
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
May 19, 2025
5:30 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Robert Newsom Jr.
Adam Loraine
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: May 19, 2025
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 838 2272 0810      Passcode: 699328
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Consideration for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of this item.
1.
Legislative and Grant Opportunities Briefing – Study Session
Receive legislative updates from California State Senator Josh Becker, California State Assemblymember Diane
Papan, and San Mateo County Supervisor Noelia Corzo (District 5), as well as briefings from the City’s state
legislative consultant, California Public Policy Group, and federal legislative consultant, Smith Garson. Provide
feedback and direction to staff as appropriate, including potentially taking action to adopt a position on pending
legislation.
CEQA: This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
1 of 44

--- page 2 ---
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest is
open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this
meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable
the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 44

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 25-9987
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
May 19, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Legislative and Grant Opportunities Briefing – Study Session
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive legislative updates from California State Senator Josh Becker, California State Assemblymember Diane Papan, and 
San Mateo County Supervisor Noelia Corzo (District 5), as well as briefings from the City’s state legislative consultant, 
California Public Policy Group, and federal legislative consultant, Smith Garson. Provide feedback and direction to staff as 
appropriate, including potentially taking action to adopt a position on pending legislation.
BACKGROUND:
At the February 18, 2025, City Council Regular Meeting, during the Reports and Announcements section, Council Member 
Fernandez requested that the Council receive an update on state and federal legislative matters from the City’s elected 
representatives and advocacy partners.
In February 2025, the City Council approved an agreement with California Public Policy Group (CPPG). The City has 
engaged CPPG to support the Council and staff in advancing San Mateo’s regional and state legislative priorities as well as 
identifying potential grant opportunities, as outlined in the presentation contained within Attachment 1. CPPG provided an 
initial update to the City Council’s Legislative Committee during its meeting on April 28, 2025. For federal advocacy, the 
City has worked with Smith Garson (formerly Smith Dawson & Andrews) since 2017 to monitor and advance San Mateo’s 
interests at the federal level.
According to the City Council’s Rules and Procedures, it is the policy of the Council to be actively involved in developing the 
City’s position on significant pending state and federal legislation that may directly impact San Mateo. The Legislative 
Committee—comprised of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor—convenes annually or as needed to review and recommend 
positions on legislative matters.
Legislation may be submitted for consideration by the Legislative Committee by a Council Member, the City Manager, or a 
Commission Staff Liaison if a majority of the commission has voted to bring the matter forward. The Committee’s 
recommendations are presented to the full City Council for consideration. In time-sensitive cases where Council action 
cannot be obtained before a legislative deadline, the Legislative Committee may take immediate action to communicate 
with legislators. When this occurs, the Committee must copy the full Council and provide a summary of its actions during 
the Reports and Announcements section of the next Council meeting.
During this study session, the City Council will receive presentations California State Senator Josh Becker, California State 
Assemblymember Diane Papan, and San Mateo County Supervisor Noelia Corzo (District 5), as well as briefings from the 
City’s state legislative consultant, California Public Policy Group, and federal legislative consultant, Smith Garson. Following 
the presentations, Council may direct a position be taken on any legislation or direct staff to provide further information 
3 of 44

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
for consideration at a later date.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this legislative briefing. There are no additional costs associated with this 
legislative briefing. Participation by California Public Policy Group and Smith Garson is covered under their existing 
monthly fees as outlined in the City’s approved agreements.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
 Att 1 – California Public Policy Group Presentation
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
4 of 44

--- page 5 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  • PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
City of San Mateo
Legislative Update
Dane Hutchings, Founder + CEO  California Public Policy Group
Jake Whitaker, Director of Grant Services
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
5 of 44

--- page 6 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
2025 Legislative State-of-Play 
Primary Narrative That Has Driven Policy This Year… 
“Affordability”
 Dozens of Measures Seeking To: 
•
Cap, Delay or Eliminate Local Mitigation and Development Related Fees
•
New State-Mandated Local Programs Without Offset Funding 
•
Fast-Tracked Timelines That Place Considerable Pressure on Local Agencies 
•
New Requirements Making it Seemingly More Difficult to Utilize Professional Service Contracts and 
Driving Operational Costs. 
6 of 44

--- page 7 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
State Legislative Timeline
Key State Legislative Dates
Action
January 10
Governor must present budget proposal to the Legislature.
January 24
Last day to submit bill requests to the Office of Legislative
Counsel.
February 21
Last day for bills to be introduced.
April 10-21
Legislative spring recess.
May 2
Last day for policy committees to hear and report to fiscal
committee’s fiscal bills introduced in their house.
May 14 
Governor Released May Revise 
June 15
Fiscal Year 2025-26 Budget must be passed by the
Legislature.
June 30
Governor must sign Fiscal Year 2025-26 Budget.
July 18-August 18
Legislative summer recess.
September 12
Last day for each house to pass bills.
October 12
Governor must take action all measures passed by the
Legislature.
7 of 44

--- page 8 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
VLF Update 
8 of 44

--- page 9 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
VLF Update 
•
$114M Claim Pending for San Mateo County (SMC) and its taxing agencies 
•
VLF reimbursement claim not included in Governor’s January budget proposal 
•
Have been working with SMC delegation on coordinated outreach efforts 
•
City of San Mateo has submitted a letter requesting that the Backfill amount be included 
•
Have had productive conversations with Senate Budget Chair and Sub Committee Chair  
•
Working with allies in organized labor—particularly police and fire to highlight importance 
•
CPPG testified in support of restoring the VLF amount in Senate Budget Sub 4 (State Administration)
•
Highlighted  real costs and potential service reductions if backfill amount was not honored 
Next Steps: 
•
Collaboration with relevant budget committees in both Chambers 
•
June 15 Budget Passed by the Legislature 
9 of 44

--- page 10 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Update on Positioned Bills
10 of 44

--- page 11 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
AB 60 (Papan)
o This bill, the Musk Reduction Act, would expand that prohibition by adding musk ambrette, musk 
tibetene, musk moskene, and musk xylene to the list of banned ingredients. The bill would also, 
beginning January 1, 2027, prohibit the use of musk ketone in cosmetic products in excess of 
specified amounts, including 1.4% in fine fragrance products, and oral products, as defined. 
o Status: 5/6/2025 In Senate. Read first time. To Com. on RLS. for assignment.
o Client Position: Support
11 of 44

--- page 12 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
AB 650 (Papan)
•
AB 650 strengthens the state’s housing planning process by requiring HCD to develop a 
standardized reporting format for Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing (AFFH) programs. It also 
moves up the timeline for determining Regional Housing Needs Allocations (RHNA) with Councils of 
Governments (COGs) to 30 months before housing element deadlines, giving jurisdictions 6 more 
months for planning. Additionally, the bill mandates that HCD provide clear, detailed guidance to 
help jurisdictions address noncompliance findings and achieve certification more efficiently.
o Status: 5/1/2025 Coauthors revised. From committee: Do pass and re-refer to Com. on APPR. (Ayes 9. 
Noes 0.) (April 30). Re-referred to Com. on APPR.
o Client Position: Support
12 of 44

--- page 13 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Legislation Impacting San 
Mateo 
Note: Informational item only, no recommended positions provided. Status/ location of legislation based on 05/15/2025.
13 of 44

--- page 14 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Legislation Impacting San Mateo
Bill Number 
(Author)
Brief Summary
Status
AB 306 
(Schultz) 
AB 306 temporarily prohibits cities and counties, including charter cities, from adopting or 
modifying residential building standards—such as green codes—between June 1, 2025, and June 
1, 2031, unless the changes meet limited exceptions like emergency health and safety or home 
hardening. It also requires that residential model home designs approved under existing 
standards continue to use those standards for future builds unless significantly altered or 
outdated
5/13/2025 From committee 
chair, with author's 
amendments: Amend, and 
re-refer to committee. Read 
second time, amended, 
and re-referred to Com. on 
HOUSING.
SB 79 (Wiener) 
SB 79 shifts significant land use authority away from local governments by requiring cities to 
allow higher-density housing near transit-oriented development (TOD) stops, overriding local 
zoning standards for height, density, and floor area ratio. It also allows transit agencies to set 
objective development standards on land they own or control within a half-mile of TOD stops, 
further limiting local control over site-specific planning. Projects that meet these criteria are 
entitled to ministerial approval, and cities that deny them—especially in high-resource areas—
face automatic penalties under the Housing Accountability Act unless a specific health or safety 
risk is proven
5/19/2025 Senate 
Appropriations
AB 1026 
(Wilson)
AB 1026 imposes new requirements on electrical corporations to streamline and standardize the 
processing of energization applications for housing developments, including deadlines for 
application review, completeness determinations, and appeals procedures
5/12/2025 Read second 
time. Ordered to third 
reading. Re-referred to 
Com. on APPR. pursuant to 
Joint Rule 10.5.
14 of 44

--- page 15 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Legislation Impacting San Mateo
Bill Number (Author)
Brief Summary
Status*
SB 499 (Stern)
This bill amends the timing and conditions under which local agencies may collect fees on 
residential developments, generally deferring payment until final inspection or issuance of a 
certificate of occupancy, with exceptions for utility connections and certain public improvements. 
It also provides extended deferral options and exemptions for designated affordable housing 
projects and outlines enforceable contracts and lien procedures to secure deferred payments.
5/15/2025 #99 
Senate Third 
Reading File
AB 259 (Rubio)
This bill defines the conditions under which members of a legislative body may participate 
remotely in meetings, including due to illness, disability, family emergencies, or official travel, and 
specifies the technologies and terms associated with such participation. It allows remote 
participation without public accessibility to the member’s location and remains in effect until 
January 1, 2030.
5/14/2025 
Referred to Coms. 
on L. GOV. and 
JUD.
AB 339 (Ortega)
This bill requires public agencies to provide at least 120 days’ written notice to recognized 
employee organizations before soliciting or renewing contracts for services covered by union-
represented job classifications. It also mandates good faith negotiations upon request and allows 
reopening of labor agreements, while preserving existing employee rights and contract provisions.
Appropriations 
Suspense File
15 of 44

--- page 16 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Legislation Impacting San Mateo
Bill Number (Author)
Brief Summary
Status*
SB 63 (Wiener) 
This bill establishes the San Francisco Bay Area Transportation Revenue Measure District, which will have authority 
to place a regional sales tax measure on the November 2026 ballot to fund improvements to public transit systems 
like BART, Muni, Caltrain, and AC Transit. It also requires the Metropolitan Transportation Commission to report by 
2026 on how planned transportation projects will affect ridership, especially for rail connectivity, and outlines 
procedures for district formation, governance, tax implementation, and election logistics.
Appropriations 
Suspense File
AB 382 (Berman) 
This bill updates California's Vehicle Code to allow local authorities greater flexibility to lower speed limits in school 
zones and near senior centers, including setting a 20 mph limit under specific conditions and enabling 15 mph 
limits with proper justification. It also clarifies enforcement standards for speed limits, definitions of speed traps, 
and when local jurisdictions can bypass standard survey requirements, while setting a repeal and update schedule 
for these provisions by 2029.
Appropriations 
Suspense File
SB 456 (Ashby) 
This bill exempts artists who create murals under a legal agreement from contractor licensing requirements under 
the Business and Professions Code. It defines a mural as a hand-painted, original work of fine art protected by 
intellectual property laws, excluding commercial painted wall signs.
5/15/2025 #38  
Senate Third 
Reading File
16 of 44

--- page 17 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Legislative Policy + 
Platform 
17 of 44

--- page 18 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Legislative Platform Background 
and Purpose 
Creates a Helpful Guide for Communicating with Various Stakeholders
•
Communicates City’s policies, priorities, and positions to the public, and to state and regional governments.
Allows the City to Have a Gameplan 
•
Allows staff and legislative advocate to quickly triage and assess legislative matters upon introduction and as they advance 
through the process.
•
In 2023-24 legislative session there were 5,564 legislative and budgetary measures introduced.
•
2,628 having some level of impact on public agencies at time of introduction.
Examples Include:
•
Drafting and resubmitting advocacy letters and modifying advocacy letters based on amendments 
•
Testifying in legislative and budgetary committees
•
Attending meetings with state legislative, regulatory and administrative agencies 
•
Negotiating amendments/ comments/ policy on legislative, regulatory or administrative actions. 
•
Seeking funding for key programs and city initiatives   
•
Meeting with stakeholders involved in the state legislative, regulatory and administrative proposal. 
18 of 44

--- page 19 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Legislative Platform Background 
and Purpose 
Provides Guidance/Direction to City Staff and State Legislative Consultants on How to 
Engage on Specific Pieces of Legislation—Including Coalition Building 
• This is especially important during key legislative and budget deadlines.
• Helps secure critical amendments early in the process.
• Allows immediate engagement on legislation throughout the legislative process.
• Enables the City to take the following advocacy positions:
• Sponsor
• Support 
• Oppose 
• Oppose unless amended 
• Neutral 
• Watch (Internal)
19 of 44

--- page 20 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Legislative Platform 
Development 
Meetings to be Focused Primarily On The Following:
• Polices that have an impact on departmental operations. 
• Assessing major issues/projects/initiatives within the City that need to be considered or 
shared. 
• Major policy areas of importance that CPPG should be monitoring more closely. 
• Critical funding priorities for the City that CPPG should know more about. 
• How best CPPG can serve as the City’s legislative advocacy firm. 
Given The Legislative Timing More Emphasized Focus In The Fall
• Goal is to adopt a formal platform in the Fall of 2025  
 
20 of 44

--- page 21 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Legislative Policy
• Establishing a legislative policy aims to 
formalize how and when the City responds to 
local, state, and federal legislation or ballot 
measures impacting it.
• Many cities outline a process for addressing 
proposed legislation and ballot measures to 
clarify City interests and facilitate prompt 
responses as necessary.
• Effective March 1, 2025, the City Retained 
CPPG for Legislative Advocacy and Grant 
Writing  Services.  
• It is anticipated that the City will broaden its 
scope of engagement on local, state and 
federal matters of interest. 
• Having clear direction through an adopted 
policy and platform will be helpful to ensure 
clear direction, timely engagement and 
sustained success. 
21 of 44

--- page 22 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Legislative Policy
Assessment of San Mateo’s Current Policy
•
Formalized Legislative Roles:
o
Mayor and Deputy Mayor serve as the Legislative Committee.
•
Annual Review of Priorities:
o
Legislative Committee may meet annually to draft priorities.
•
Emergency/Expedited Action Allowed:
o
The Legislative Committee can act urgently and report back at the next meeting.
•
Communication to Full Council:
o
Copy full Council and report under Reports and Announcements.
 
22 of 44

--- page 23 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Legislative Policy
Areas to Potentially Explore Based on Best Practices
•
Fully Developed Legislative Advocacy Platform:
o
Adopt a written legislative platform and reaffirm by the full City Council at least every two years (to conform with legislative Cycle) .
•
Detailed Emergency Authorization Criteria:
o
Modify policy to account for emergency or time-sensitive circumstances permitting unilateral action (e.g., protect revenues, local 
control, legislative committee timing etc.).
•
Explicit Role for City Staff and  Legislative Consultants:
o
Modify policy to recognize the involvement that City staff and the legislative consultant in effectively advocating on behalf of the City.
•
Councilmember Discretion and Caution:
o
Clearly state Councilmembers must distinguish personal views from the City’s official position.
•
 Formal Procedures for Ballot Measures (optional) 
o
Create a defined process for Council action on State and Local ballot measures.
23 of 44

--- page 24 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Grant and Funding Outlook
24 of 44

--- page 25 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Major Funding Sources
• State Budget: May Revise budget preserves discretionary grant spending programs that were 
proposed in the Governor’s January budget proposal.
• Proposition 1: First tranche of $3.3 billion in funding was just awarded. A second and final round 
of funding will be available later this year.  
• Proposition 4: The “Climate Bond” spending package will be rolled out with the adoption of the 
state’s FY 25-26 budget. 
• Federal Budget: Cuts to discretionary spending subject to negotiations on Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 
of 2017 extension via budget reconciliation and the FY 26 budget package.
• Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA): Investments authorized through the IIJA are 
largely preserved in the President’s budget proposal for FY 26.
• Inflation Reduction Act (IRA): Current federal budget framework rolls back tax credit programs 
authorized under the IRA, which were the last major components of the bill’s clean energy 
investment strategy. 
25 of 44

--- page 26 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
The Trump Administration
• Changing Federal Grantmaking Priorities
• Executive Orders Targeting Climate Investments & “DEI” Principles
• Renewed Focus on Investments in “Areas of Persistent Poverty”
• Prioritization for Agencies that Comply with Federal Immigration Enforcement
• Attempts to Rescind Grant Awards Based on Revised Policy Priorities
• Ongoing Legal Challenges to Administrative Actions
• USDOT Review of Pending Award Agreements
• Termination Notices
• Grant Competitions Resuming after Programmatic Review
• USDOT IIJA Funding – Safe Streets and Roads for All (SS4A)
• USDOJ COPS Office Grants
26 of 44

--- page 27 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Next Steps
• Deep Dive Meetings with staff to refine CPPG’s understanding of the City’s 
priorities and project pipeline.
• Strategic Plan and Planning Document review to further inform grant-seeking 
efforts and ensure alignment with priorities.
• Development of Curated Tracking List for high-priority, high-impact 
opportunities that align with the City Council’s strategic goals. We are looking 
ahead and thinking about anticipated opportunities over the next two-years.
• Ongoing Monitoring of State and Federal Action to inform the City’s grant-
seeking priorities and strategies.
27 of 44

--- page 28 ---
From: Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>

Sent: Monday, May 19, 2025 11:29 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc: Prasanna Rasiah <prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org>; Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>; Christina
Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>; Zachary Reda <zreda@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Fw: Council Questions for Monday Council Special Meeting Item 1 (Legislative and Grant Opportunities Briefing
— Study Session)

Good morning, Council,

Below please find responses from Dane Hutchings with CPPG on Council questions regarding SB63 the
proposed regional sales tax for transit legislation under consideration.

Thanks,

Alex

From: Dane Hutchings <dhutchings@publicpolicygroup.com>

Sent: Monday, May 19, 2025 11:08 AM

To: Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; Christina Horrisberger

<chorrisberger @cityofsanmateo.org>; Zachary Reda <zreda@cityofsanmateo.org>; Andrea Chow
<achow @cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc: Amy Boggs <aboggs@publicpolicygroup.com>

Subject: Re: Council Questions for Monday Council Special Meeting Item 1 (Legislative and Grant
Opportunities Briefing — Study Session)

Good morning Alex and Team:

Here are my responses on SB 63 (italicized text) :

28 of 44


--- page 29 ---
2
1. Does SB 63 simply allow a regional transit sales tax to potentially be placed on a future ballot (in 
San Mateo and elsewhere)? 
Yes. SB 63 authorizes the creation of a regional Transportation Revenue Measure District and allows for a 
regional sales tax measure to potentially be placed on the November 3, 2026 statewide ballot. San Mateo 
County is not automatically included and would need to affirmatively opt in , but the bill explicitly invites 
San Mateo and Santa Clara Counties to opt in by July 31, 2025. If San Mateo opts in, the tax measure 
would apply countywide and require voter approval. 
  
2. Does SB 63 mandate that something be placed on the ballot, or could it be delayed or dropped 
like the BAFHA bond last year? 
SB 63 does not mandate that a ballot measure must appear. Like BAHFA housing bond, SB 63 enables 
the legal and administrative framework, but whether a measure actually goes to the ballot in 2026 
depends on stakeholder negotiations, funding decisions, and potential board action. It is entirely 
possible that the structure is created, but the measure is never placed before voters. 
  
3. If no ballot measure is placed in 2026, does the Transportation Revenue Measure District 
dissolve? 
The bill does not specify an automatic dissolution of the district if no ballot measure is placed. However, 
the functional purpose of the district is to administer the proposed tax measure. If the tax does not 
proceed, the district may remain dormant unless future legislation or board action directs otherwise. 
  
4. Are there other costs or mandates that may concern the City of San Mateo? 
Potential concerns include: 
 
If San Mateo County opts in, the City of San Mateo would be subject to the regional tax and the 
broader regional funding structure, which could raise local control and priority-setting questions. 
 
There is no requirement that funds raised be proportionally returned to cities or counties. 
Although Caltrain is eligible for operational funds, the City would have no direct control over 
allocations. 
 
Separately, the bill does not impose direct costs or mandates on the City. 
 
One minor consideration is that SB 63 allows San Mateo County to levy its own separate local 
transportation tax in 1/8% increments, which could influence future local tax discussions or voter 
fatigue. 
 One additional note here, is that by my read there are some inconsistencies in the bill with respect to 
San Mateo (and also Santa Clara counties opting in). 
  
As drafted, SB 63 sets a July 31, 2025 opt-in deadline for San Mateo County, but the bill does not take 
effect until January 1, 2026—creating a timing conflict. In other words, the County would need to opt into 
an agency that doesn’t technically exist. I am not sure how this works in practice. To date, the County of 
San Mateo has not adopted a formal position. I am not sure what their interest is in supporting this 
measure.  
 
DH 
 
  
 
29 of 44

--- page 30 ---
3
 
Dane Hutchings
Founder + CEO 
dhutchings@publicpolicygroup.com
(916) 230-6935 
I appreciate the importance of maintaining work-life balance. Please feel free to respond to this message at your convenience 
during working hours. 
  
  
 
30 of 44

--- page 31 ---
City of San Mateo 
City Council Meeting 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POST PACKET 
 
 PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
31 of 44

--- page 32 ---
oh Outlook
SUPPORT SB63.

From Anne Adams Si

Date Mon 5/19/2025 9:27 AM
To Anne Adams

Ce City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Mayor, Deputy Mayor and City Council.

I urge you to SUPPORT Senate Bill 63, MMOW before the California legislature. When SB63 is adopted,
it will allow the greater SF Bay Area to place a Regional Transit Measure on the 2026 Ballot. Passing that
ballot measure is vitally needed to increase funding for CalTrain, BART, light rail, buses, and other transit.
That would lead to fewer cars on the road!

Thank you, for OUF future!!

Anne Adams

Don't ask yourself what the world needs -

Ask yourself what makes you come alive, and then go do it.

Because what the world needs is people who have come alive.
Dr. Howard Thurman

If we want to change the story of the human race in the 21st century,
we have to change the stories we tell ourselves.

Anne Adams, PhD

32 of 44


--- page 33 ---
oh Outlook
Please Support Senate Bill 63

Date Sun 5/18/2025 7:47 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc ‘Gary Trott

Dear Mayor, Deputy Mayor and City Council.

lam a resident of San Mateo

| urge you to SUPPORT Senate Bill 63, now before the California legislature. When SB63 is adopted, it
will allow the greater SF Bay Area to place a Regional Transit Measure on the 2026 Ballot. Passing that
ballot measure is vitally needed to increase funding for CalTrain, BART, light rail, buses, and other transit.
That would lead to fewer cars on the road!

Thank you,

Dr. Gary Trott

33 of 44


--- page 34 ---
lo Outlook

Oppose Assembly Bill 306

From Gary Trott 2 <j

Date Sun 5/18/2025 7:44 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc — clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org.>; 'Gary Trott’ F tsti<‘itSSCS*@t

Dear San Mateo City Council

lama resident of San Mateo.
| strongly oppose any efforts to limit electrification in new and evolving reach codes applied to housing.

Therefore please, acting in your capacity as City Council, formally take a position to oppose Assembly Bill AB306.
Thank You

Regards
Dr. Gary Trott

34 of 44


--- page 35 ---
1
From:
Mike Swire 
Sent:
Monday, May 19, 2025 8:51 AM
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: Please support SB63
First try bounced . . . 
---------- Forwarded message --------- 
From: Mike Swire 
 
Date: Mon, May 19, 2025 at 8:47 AM 
Subject: Please support SB63 
To: <citycouncil@cityofsanamateo.org> 
 
Dear SM City Council, 
 
Thank you for your service to the community.   
 
At tonight's discussion of legislative priorities for the City, I encourage the Council to support SB 63.  This 
important piece of legislation would provide a route to a sizable and reliable funding mechanism for our 
chronically underfunded public transit systems.  Current funding mechanisms in SM County, including 
Measure A & W sales taxes, do not provide sufficient revenue to maintain current service levels.  In 
addition, Measures A & W spend too much money. on highway widening and other expensive, car-
focused projects (such as the 101/92 Direct Connector project which the Council just opposed) that fail 
to address congestion, climate change, or air pollution. 
 
Thank you for your consideration. 
 
Mike Swire 
Bay Meadows resident 
35 of 44

--- page 36 ---
fo Outlook
Two bills that need your immediate attention

Date Sun 5/18/2025 7:55 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

My personal message to the Mayor and the entire City Council of San Mateo:

I urge you to in the strongest possible terms to support Senate Bill 63, which is now before the California legislatur
e.

| am a resident of San Mateo, living ot San Mateo is a GREAT CITY, and I'm counting you
to keep it that way. We live in California and you should do everything you can on behalf of Senate Bill 63.
| am also asking the City Council to formally take a position in opposition to another bill: Assembly Bill 306.

Sincerely,

~ . _ ~

36 of 44


--- page 37 ---
oh Outlook
please oppose AB306

From James Higbie FP

Date Sun 5/18/2025 9:33 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Mayor Newsom and Council Members,

| am writing to ask that you please exert all your influence to oppose AB306. This bill would strip the
city's power to make progress on beneficial electrification. It is a naked power grab in the interest of
gas utilities (PG&E) and against San Mateo's ability to formulate appropriate policy for local
conditions, taking into account the harm caused by indoor and outdoor methane pollution and the
benefit of modern, clean, reliable, earthquake-safe, stably-priced electrical alternatives. Sometimes it
makes sense for the state to centralize power, when too many local jurisdictions are dragging their
feet on important questions or when there's a collective action problem, but in this case there's no
excuse. The bill's authors are just trying to slow progress so they can make more money in the short
term, at the expense of our health and safety, and that of our children and grandchildren. Our ability
to build a liveable future is slipping away as the federal government becomes the enemy of climate
progress--we mustn't let California's trailblazing cities backslide as well.

Once again--please take a formal stance as a council, OPPOSING AB303.

Thank you very much,

James Higbie

San Mateo resident

37 of 44


--- page 38 ---
oh Outlook
Fwd: Flaws in Assembly Bill 306- please oppose

From Wendy Chou <j

Date Mon 5/19/2025 3:43 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Apologies. | sent this yesterday but there was a typo in the address to Council. Resending.

To: <citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>, <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Mayor, Deputy Mayor and City Council,

Assembly Bill 306 claims to help reduce building costs by freezing the state energy code for new and
existing housing for an unprecedented 6 years.

However there is little evidence that such a move would address the fundamental sources of building
costs which stem from factors such as land,
labor, material price hikes and entitlement processes.

In

fact, a moratorium on new state and local building codes for both new and existing housing would not
enhance affordability, but would take away a key tool for local governments to streamline processes,
ensure public safety, address energy security and affordability,

and to achieve their climate commitments.

Now

is the time to prevent state legislators from impeding progress that individual cities such as San Mateo
could make at the local level by updating or improving reach codes that go beyond the state
requirements.

Local governments often bear the brunt of local impacts of climate change on communities and so
these entities should permitted to take action on improving building standards to electrify new and
existing housing.

Please
stand in opposition to California's AB 306 which represents a very misguided approach.

Thank you for your diligence in addressing this critical matter.

Sincerely,
Wendy
Chou

38 of 44


--- page 39 ---
39 of 44

--- page 40 ---
oh Outlook
Support Senate Bill 63 on transit

From Wendy Chou <j
Date Sun 5/18/2025 8:59 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Mayor, Deputy Mayor and City Council,

| respectfully urge you to SUPPORT Senate Bill 63, which is now before the California legislature.
It would allow the greater SF Bay Area to place a Regional Transit Measure on the 2026 Ballot.
Passing that ballot measure is vitally needed to increase funding for CalTrain, BART, light rail, buses,
and other transit.

Transportation -- particularly cars -- is a huge contributor to greenhouse gas emissions in San
Mateo, Traffic has worsened steadily since the pandemic disrupted people's commute patterns, and
gridlock is common on the freeways near me for many hours of every day including weekends.
Without investments in public transit we can look forward to ever-worsening traffic and even more
deaths resulting from unsafe drivers. We residents of San Mateo look to you, our elected leaders, to
support more healthy and sustainable transit options like trains, buses, and BART that are part of the
fabric of city life in the world's most enviable and civilized cities. Please support transit and support SB
63.

Thank you for your consideration.
Regards,

Wendy Chou
Resident of San Mateo

40 of 44


--- page 41 ---
oh Outlook

Fwd: Flaws in Assembly Bill 306- please oppose

From Wendy Chou <{r
Date Mon 5/19/2025 3:43 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Apologies. | sent this yesterday but there was a typo in the address to Council. Resending.

To: <citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>, <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Mayor, Deputy Mayor and City Council,

Assembly Bill 306 claims to help reduce building costs by freezing the state energy code for new and
existing housing for an unprecedented 6 years.

However there is little evidence that such a move would address the fundamental sources of building
costs which stem from factors such as land,
labor, material price hikes and entitlement processes.

In

fact, a moratorium on new state and local building codes for both new and existing housing would not
enhance affordability, but would take away a key tool for local governments to streamline processes,
ensure public safety, address energy security and affordability,

and to achieve their climate commitments.

Now

is the time to prevent state legislators from impeding progress that individual cities such as San Mateo
could make at the local level by updating or improving reach codes that go beyond the state
requirements.

Local governments often bear the brunt of local impacts of climate change on communities and so
these entities should permitted to take action on improving building standards to electrify new and
existing housing.

Please
stand in opposition to California's AB 306 which represents a very misguided approach.

Thank you for your diligence in addressing this critical matter.

Sincerely,
Wendy
Chou

41 of 44


--- page 42 ---
42 of 44

--- page 43 ---
oh Outlook

OPPOSE AB306

From Sue Blockstein ay =O

Date Mon 5/19/2025 9:37 AM
To Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Council Members,

| urge you to go on the record opposing Assembly Bill 306. This will
remove local control and ruin our efforts to Electrify San Mateo.

Thank you,
Sue Blockstein

Resident of San Mateo

43 of 44


--- page 44 ---
lo Outlook
Please support the Senate Bill 63!

From Mary Beavins <j

Date Mon 5/19/2025 12:27 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Mayor, Deputy Mayor and City Council,

Please
support Senate Bill 63
which is being voted on now in the

legislature.

We

need to build up our mass transit to make it easier for people to travel and get more cars off the road.

Let's get the Regional Transit Measure on the 2026 Ballot. Let's improve our transportation system.

People

want better transportation options. Your vote will help the people as well as help reduce global

warming. Let's do this thing!

Thank
you,
Mary
Beavins

San

Mateo, CA 94402
Cell:

44 of 44
