source: packet.pdf
sha256: 7d00f6fee67aeceedce3f3920c7ce2d6cc81592a119d57e97ccd23fc075038ef
pages: 28
ocr_pages: 1
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Community Relations Commission 
May 21, 2025
7:00 PM
City Hall-Conference Room C
330 W 20  Avenue
San Mateo, Ca 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Sheri Boles - Chair
Alli Fitzgerald – Vice Chair
Jerold Nugent
Jennifer Kim
Meghan Crowel
 
AGENDA
 
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES
BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE
MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: May 21, 2025
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 885 7103 3558      Passcode: 635206
The meeting will conclude by 10:00 pm unless otherwise agreed upon by the Community Relations
Commission to adjourn earlier or extend the length of the meeting. 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
AB 2449 Requests and Consideration for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
1.
Approval of Minutes.
Approve the minutes of the April 16, 2025 Regular Meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to Speak"
form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be referred to
th
1 of 28

--- page 2 ---
staff for further review.
NEW BUSINESS
1.
Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Building Strategy – Feedback
Receive an informational report on the “Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Building Strategy” project and provide
feedback on policy pathways.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting
and can be viewed on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org. Any supplemental material distributed to the
Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the oﬃcial record.
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All
attendees are muted by default. To speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate
me.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting
agenda.
To indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special
accommodations to participate in this meeting may contact the Housing Division at
rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522-7223.
Notiﬁcation 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility
to this meeting.
A
2 of 28

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-9918
TO:
Community Relations Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
May 21, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Approval of Minutes.
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the April 16, 2025 Regular Meeting.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change 
in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - 4-16-2026 CRC Regular Meeting Minutes 
STAFF CONTACT
Jennifer Mora, 
jemora@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7230
3 of 28

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSION – REGULAR MEETING          
MINUTES – February 19, 2025 
The April 16, 2025 Regular Meeting of the Community Relations Commission (CRC) was called to order at 7:00
pm. Chair Boles called the meeting to order. 
 
ROLL CALL 
Chair Boles, Vice Chair Fitzgerald, and Commissioners Crowell and Nugent were present. Commissioner Kim was 
excused.  
 
CITY STAFF PRESENT 
Rachel Horst- Housing Manager and Jennifer Mora- Housing Specialist were present.  
 
CONSENT CALENDAR / APPROVAL OF MINUTES 
1. The minutes of the February 19, 2025 meeting were approved. (Fitzgerald/Crowell; 4-0-1) 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
No public comment was received.  
 
NEW BUSINESS 
 
2. 2025-2026 Community Funding Recommendations 
Staff provided a presentation on the Draft 2025-2026 Annual Action Plan for the Community Development Block 
Grant (CDBG). The Community Relations Commission reviewed the Draft Annual Action Plan and provided a 
recommendation to staff and the City Council.  
 
Commissioner Crowell asked staff where the program income in the budget is coming from. Staff responded the 
program income is from previous HOME projects. 
 
The CRC voted to recommend that the City Council directs staff to submit the 2025-2025 Annual Action Plan to the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for approval . (Nugent/Boles; 4-0-1) 
Public Comment on this item:  
Laurie Watanuki inquired about the Street and Sidewalk Improvements goal in the Draft Annual Action Plan for 
2025-2026. Watanuki requested sidewalk repairs and green pedestrian streetlamps in the North side of 5th Avenue 
and the South side of 4th Avenue with cross streets of South Amphlett to South Delaware. 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
1. Staff gave Commissioners a reminder to submit their scores on the applications received in the 2025-2026 Notice 
of Funding Availability. 
2. Staff announced that there will be a Community Relations Commission Regular Meeting scheduled for May 21, 
2025. 
3. Housing Manager announced that they will be on leave from June to October.  
4. Staff announced that City Council will hold a Study Session on April 21, 2025 on Anti-Displacement and Tenant 
Protections.  
5. Chair Boles announced an Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) Fair on May 10, 2025 and to visit smcadu.org for more 
information. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
With no further business before the Commission, the meeting adjourned at 7:30 pm (Nugent/Fitzgerald; 4-0-1).
 
4 of 28

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-9894
TO:
Community Relations Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
May 21, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Building Strategy – Feedback
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an informational report on the “Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Building Strategy” project and provide feedback 
on policy pathways.
BACKGROUND:
Building energy use represents 38% of communitywide greenhouse gas emissions in San Mateo. Building electrification 
refers to the transition from gas equipment to electric equipment for space and water heating, clothes drying, cooking and 
more. While natural gas is a fossil fuel, Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) provides carbon-free electricity communitywide. 
Electrifying existing buildings is critical to reducing communitywide greenhouse gas emissions and is a key strategy in 
attaining the objectives contained in City’s adopted Climate Action Plan. In 2023, staff began work with Rincon 
Consultants, Inc. to develop the “Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Building Strategy.” This report provides an overview of 
the project and the five policy pathways that will be considered by City Council after engaging with the community on 
options available.
Building Electrification Background
Electrification benefits include the added health benefit of reducing gas use in the home. Commonly used appliances that 
burn gas, including stoves, heating systems, and water heaters, emit hazardous air pollutants inside a home when 
improperly ventilated, or when leaks occur. These can include benzene, nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides, carbon monoxide, 
formaldehyde, particulate matter and other harmful pollutants that increase the risk of respiratory disease such as 
asthma. Additionally, gas infrastructure carries an inherent safety risk due to the volatile nature of gas, including risk of 
methane leakage, damage during earthquakes, accidental explosions, or fires. 
Building electrification is also an essential approach to driving the state of California toward its ambitious climate goal of 
carbon neutrality by 2045. Additionally, at the regional level the Bay Area Air District (BAAD) adopted zero nitrogen oxides 
(NOx) standards that will prohibit the sale and installation of gas water heaters starting in 2027 and gas furnaces in 2029 in 
the nine-county Bay Area. These standards are the most ambitious in the country and outpace the state’s goal of banning 
the sale of new gas furnaces and water heaters throughout the state starting in 2030. 
Project Background and Policy Pathways
The goal of this project is to develop a strategy to electrify San Mateo’s existing building stock, including policies and 
actions for both residential and nonresidential buildings. To date, the project team has completed a building inventory and 
market segmentation analysis and phase one of outreach focused on the concerns and opportunities related to 
electrification. The top concerns heard so far were costs, power outages and grid resilience, and the growth of the grid to 
accommodate future electric buildings. Top values were how the climate crisis is a priority issue, the need for the City to 
5 of 28

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
act now, and the availability of electric equipment incentives and rebates.
Currently, the project team is gathering feedback on five existing building electrification policy pathways. These policies 
are meant to be considered as a menu of options to achieve the City’s climate goals, while considering implementation 
and cost challenges for property owners across the City. Most local governments considering a building decarbonization 
strategy combine multiple strategies together to produce the most comprehensive, and equitable policy result.  
1.
Business as usual: City should continue with adopting reach codes for new construction and focus on outreach 
and incentives. In the past, the City adopted local building code amendments to require more sustainable new 
construction than the State code. This approach has a limited impact because new construction accounts for a 
fraction of San Mateo’s development, however, this approach is already in place and thus received community 
support to date. There are no policy-related additional costs to building owners unless they voluntarily decide 
to electrify.
 
2.
New reach codes for renovations: This approach would include the evaluation of additional reach codes to 
encourage and/or require electrification during renovations. New reach codes would vary depending on the 
updated State codes. One example of a reach code during renovations is requiring the installation of a heat 
pump when an air conditioner is installed. Reach codes during renovations help encourage electrification at an 
opportune time when a property owner is already considering home improvements. The upfront costs of 
electrification improvements can vary depending on the project and unique circumstances of your home. Cost-
effectiveness studies must be completed to validate any adopted reach codes. Past studies have shown utility 
savings over time make electric equipment upgrades cost-effective compared to gas equipment replacements. 
3.
Require electric equipment upon replacement ahead of BAAD Zero NOx requirements: The Bay Area Air District 
(BAAD) adopted zero nitrogen oxides (NOx) standards that will prohibit the sale and installation of gas water 
heaters starting in 2027 and gas furnaces in 2029 in the nine-county Bay Area. A local ordinance ahead of 
these milestones would require the replacement of gas appliances with zero NOx versions when they fail or are 
voluntarily upgraded. This is an ambitious policy that would have a broad reach and only a few local 
governments have adopted such a requirement.
4.
Building Performance Standards for commercial buildings: This pathway would establish a new set of policy 
standards for commercial buildings aimed at increasing energy efficiency, and eventually, electrifying 
commercial buildings as a phased approach. This is a well-established policy mechanism that has been 
adopted by many local governments across the country. This approach can be customizable and lead to 
incremental reductions in energy use but not necessarily electrification. The development of such a local 
program would necessitate new staff time.
5.
Electric first policy for City facilities: This policy establishes a mechanism for local government renovations to 
go electric first. The policy ensures financial and feasibility data is being collected for municipal facilities that 
will allow the City to compare costs to electrify versus replacing with gas equipment. This policy has a limited 
reach as it only applies to municipal buildings. It demonstrates City leadership on hard-to-electrify existing 
buildings that mirror the commercial sector.
Staff seeks Community Relations Commission feedback on these five policy pathways. Feedback will be shared with City 
Council with discussion of this project tentatively scheduled for June 2025.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
6 of 28

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Public Comments – Electrify San Mateo
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7007
7 of 28

--- page 8 ---
Outlook
Electrify San Mateo: I support all five decarbonization options
From Emily Morris 
Date Sun 5/11/2025 5:00 PM
To
Emily Morris 
Hello,
I'm a resident of North Central San Mateo, and I am writing in strong support of all five decarbonization options
as part of the Electrify San Mateo project. I believe it is critical we reduce greenhouse emissions so we can enjoy a
livable, breathable San Mateo for many years to come. Thank you for your time and consideration.
Thank you,
Emily Morris
8 of 28

--- page 9 ---
Outlook
Decarbonization Study - public input
From Gary Trott 2 
Date Sun 5/11/2025 9:58 PM
To
Senior Commission Mailbox <SeniorCommissionMailbox@CityofSanMateoOrg.onmicrosoft.com>; Sustainability &
Infrastructure Commission <SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org>; Community Relations Commission
<CommunityRelationsCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc
Dear San Mateo City commissioners and boards
 
Re: Decarbonization Study agenda item
 
Across the next days, all of you will be hearing from the  Electrify San Mateo project team about the findings from the
Decarbonization Study. Unfortunately, I am not able to attend the commission meetings.  Nevertheless, I strongly support all
five of the decarbonization proposals contained within the decarbonization report.  The five options under consideration are
shown below.   
 
As a home owner, and resident of San Mateo City, I am three quarters the way through the process of electrifying my whole
home. I am changing the appliance energy source from natural gas to all electric versions. I am doing this across a span of four
years to maximize the federal tax credits.  So I know in-depth about all of the implementation challenges. Including specific
details associated with my house, and listening to home owners at various climate related events about their experiences.
There are many points of contention. People make poor choices. Contractors try to maximize their revenue instead of helping
their clients.  And the rebate application processes are adding burdensome overhead in Time-Of-Use reporting requirements.
 Only by providing information resources, and best practices,  to be shared with citizens can the best implementations with a
reduction in non-traditional, installation problems be achieved.  
 
Time is of the essence to begin implementation of the methods described in the report. Day -- by – Day we collectively are
putting more and more greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. The climate disasters that scroll across our TV screens from
stronger hurricanes, stronger tornadoes, large temperature swings, wildfires and more will continue to worsen across the next
decades.  Acting today, by taking positive steps to reduce San Mateo City greenhouse gas emissions, will be a positive step
towards reducing the future climate hazards, rebuilding costs, and the health and safety of all San Mateo residents.  Act now
to get the electrification converstion process started as soon as possible.
 
Regards
Dr. Gary Trott
Homeowner
 
1 Business as usual: City should continue with adopting reach codes for new construction and focus on outreach
and incentives.
 
2. Reach codes for renovations: This approach would include the evaluation of additional reach codes to
encourage and/or require electrification during renovations.
 
3. Require electric equipment upon replacement ahead of BAAD Zero NOx requirements:
 
4. Building Performance Standards for commercial buildings: This pathway would establish a new set of policy
standards for commercial buildings aimed at increasing energy efficiency, and eventually, electrifying
commercial buildings as a phased approach.
 
9 of 28

--- page 10 ---
5. Electric first policy for City facilities: This policy establishes a mechanism for local government renovations to
go electric first.
10 of 28

--- page 11 ---
Outlook
Electrify San Mateo
From Ricki McGlashan 
Date Mon 5/12/2025 5:16 PM
To
Senior Commission Mailbox <SeniorCommissionMailbox@CityofSanMateoOrg.onmicrosoft.com>; Sustainability &
Infrastructure Commission <SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo)
<CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Community Relations Commission
<CommunityRelationsCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>
I totally support any measures our city can take to encourage or require all electric houses.  We shut off our gas line
18 months ago and have been so pleased.  San Mateo has become notable in my mind for being at the forefront of
issues that can make our lives better in the long run.  This is a huge area where you can get in front and stay in front
of the pack.
Ricki and Doug McGlashan
San Mateo
11 of 28

--- page 12 ---
From:
Pam Rittelmeyer
To:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject:
May 14 SIC meeting agenda: support new business item 1
Date:
Wednesday, May 14, 2025 10:33:59 AM
Dear San Mateo Sustainability and Infrastructure Commissioners,
I am writing as a resident of San Mateo and President of Borel Neighborhood Association to
urge you to take action to reduce our community's greenhouse gas emissions by supporting the decarbonization objectives
being considered tonight as item 1 under New Business.
We are in a race to limit impacts from climate change. We have the energy efficient technology, the technical assistance
programs, and a growing workforce to act now. The objectives in this agenda item are flexible and
sensible. By committing to a clean energy future for our buildings, San Mateo
can demonstrate leadership on climate action, create healthier living environments, and ensure a just transition for all residents.
Thank you for your attention to this critical issue and for your ongoing work to build a more sustainable and resilient city.
Sincerely,
Pamela Rittelmeyer, PhD
President, Borel Neighborhood Association
Sent from Gmail Mobile
12 of 28

--- page 13 ---
From:
Robert Whitehair
To:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Cc:
Andrea Chow; Michelle Hudson
Subject:
May 14, 2025 SIC Meeting - Item 1 Under New Business
Date:
Wednesday, May 14, 2025 5:24:09 AM
Dear Chair Narita, Vice Chair Michael, and Andrea Chow
We thank you for the opportunity to provide this letter of support, and for your
continued climate leadership. As you know, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change has determined that if we continue to emit greenhouse gas emissions at the
current rate, climate change will become irreversible in five years. The time to take
strong climate action is now, and, in light of the federal government’s inaction on
climate, it’s more important than ever that cities like San Mateo demonstrate strong
climate leadership. 
Item 1 under New Business on the May 14 agenda will go a long way towards
implementation of the following City Council objective which has already received
strong SIC backing:
“Establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure,
and eliminate methane gas use by 2030.”
We respectfully request that the SIC support all five objectives of the Sustainable
Building Strategy: 
Keep in place the very successful reach codes for new construction
Extend reach codes to retrofits of existing buildings
Support accelerated elimination of Nitrous Oxides, specifically the Air District 
requirements to replace failed gas water heaters and gas furnaces
Build upon an established program of building performance standards
Support electrification of City buildings
We want to take this opportunity to emphasize all that has been done already:
Significant City support for decarbonization – The City of San Mateo hired a 
consultant and provided valuable City staff time, to prepare a decarbonization 
study for adoption over the next few months
13 of 28

--- page 14 ---
Even More City support for decarbonization – The City of San Mateo has 
created a valuable website: “Electrify San Mateo”
Concierge service for Electrification – Peninsula Clean Energy has created a 
“Concierge Service” for electric vehicles and electric home upgrades, available 
to everyone
Equity for renters – San Mateo community-based organizations are directly 
involved in helping renters within the City of San Mateo 
More Equity for renters – PCE has active rebate programs focused on renters.
Equity for homeowners – Free electric appliances are now provided by PCE 
for income qualified homeowners
Clean energy at rates lower than PG&E – Peninsula Clean Energy has 
provided $22.8 million in savings for residents and businesses within the City of 
San Mateo
Reduced GHG – San Mateo residents and businesses have signed on to 
electricity from PCE, which has reduced emissions from electricity by 98% in 
just 10 years. 
Significant rebates are available to all for EVs, EBikes, water heaters, 
heating/cooling and other components.
Many local community-based organizations are aligned in this important effort. For
example, we have learned that along with San Mateo Climate Action Team and 350
Silicon Valley, so many other organizations are working towards successful
implementation of sustainable building strategies: One San Mateo, El Concilio,
Climate Resilient Communities, Sustainable San Mateo County, Indivisible San
Mateo, Peninsula Interfaith Climate Action, Sierra Club, Citizens Climate Lobby, and
Physicians for Social Responsibility, just to name a few.
Many thanks for all you are doing.
Michelle Hudson and Robert Whitehair, Co Leaders
San Mateo Climate Action Team and 350 Silicon Valley San Mateo City Team
14 of 28

--- page 15 ---
From:
Ricki McGlashan
To:
Senior Commission Mailbox; Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission; City Council (San Mateo); Community
Relations Commission
Subject:
Electrify San Mateo
Date:
Monday, May 12, 2025 5:16:55 PM
I totally support any measures our city can take to encourage or require all electric houses.  We shut off our gas line
18 months ago and have been so pleased.  San Mateo has become notable in my mind for being at the forefront of
issues that can make our lives better in the long run.  This is a huge area where you can get in front and stay in front
of the pack.
Ricki and Doug McGlashan
San Mateo
15 of 28

--- page 16 ---
From:
Gary Trott 2
To:
Senior Commission Mailbox; Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission; Community Relations Commission; City
Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
"Gary Trott"
Subject:
Decarbonization Study - public input
Date:
Sunday, May 11, 2025 9:58:28 PM
Dear San Mateo City commissioners and boards
 
Re: Decarbonization Study agenda item
 
Across the next days, all of you will be hearing from the  Electrify San Mateo project team about the
findings from the Decarbonization Study. Unfortunately, I am not able to attend the commission
meetings.  Nevertheless, I strongly support all five of the decarbonization proposals contained within
the decarbonization report.  The five options under consideration are shown below.   
 
As a home owner, and resident of San Mateo City, I am three quarters the way through the process
of electrifying my whole home. I am changing the appliance energy source from natural gas to all
electric versions. I am doing this across a span of four years to maximize the federal tax credits.  So I
know in-depth about all of the implementation challenges. Including specific details associated with
my house, and listening to home owners at various climate related events about their experiences.
There are many points of contention. People make poor choices. Contractors try to maximize their
revenue instead of helping their clients.  And the rebate application processes are adding
burdensome overhead in Time-Of-Use reporting requirements.  Only by providing information
resources, and best practices,  to be shared with citizens can the best implementations with a
reduction in non-traditional, installation problems be achieved.  
 
Time is of the essence to begin implementation of the methods described in the report. Day -- by –
Day we collectively are putting more and more greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. The climate
disasters that scroll across our TV screens from stronger hurricanes, stronger tornadoes, large
temperature swings, wildfires and more will continue to worsen across the next decades.  Acting
today, by taking positive steps to reduce San Mateo City greenhouse gas emissions, will be a positive
step towards reducing the future climate hazards, rebuilding costs, and the health and safety of all
San Mateo residents.  Act now to get the electrification converstion process started as soon as
possible.
 
Regards
Dr. Gary Trott
Homeowner
 
1 Business as usual: City should continue with adopting reach codes for new construction and focus
on outreach
and incentives.
 
2. Reach codes for renovations: This approach would include the evaluation of additional reach
codes to
encourage and/or require electrification during renovations.
16 of 28

--- page 17 ---
3. Require electric equipment upon replacement ahead of BAAD Zero NOx requirements:
 
4. Building Performance Standards for commercial buildings: This pathway would establish a new
set of policy
standards for commercial buildings aimed at increasing energy efficiency, and eventually, electrifying
commercial buildings as a phased approach.
 
5. Electric first policy for City facilities: This policy establishes a mechanism for local government
renovations to
go electric first.
17 of 28

--- page 18 ---
From:
t3e lolz
To:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject:
comments on Electrification and PG&E
Date:
Friday, May 9, 2025 6:21:26 PM
If we are to electrify San Mateo, then we first need to get our electricity rates down. PG&E's
electricity rates keep going up and up, while the rates for natural gas are relatively stable. 
Until either PG&E suffers some accountability or San Mateo starts it's own utility (similar to
Santa Clara and Alameda) then it makes no financial sense to electrify our homes.  Please do
not force electrification upon us until you get our electricity rates under control. 
Thanks, 
Garrett
18 of 28

--- page 19 ---
From:
Connie Schram
To:
Andrea Chow
Subject:
Gas stove
Date:
Tuesday, May 13, 2025 4:04:10 PM
Dear Andrea Chow, I really enjoy cooking with my gas stove. Where do you plan to get all this electricity? And
how will the electricity be generated? I have lived in homes with electric stove tops and I hate them. How do you
expect me to pay for converting a furnace, clothes dryer, water heater, oven and stove top in my home? And then
pay for that electricity!
Sent from my iPad
19 of 28

--- page 20 ---
From:
Maureen Galindo
To:
Andrea Chow
Subject:
Electrify San Mateo
Date:
Tuesday, May 13, 2025 3:20:08 PM
Dear Andrea,
In response to your email regarding switching from gas to electric equipment, I am not in
favor of this action.  When I have incurred the loss of power at my home (which has been
happening more frequently) I am happy to have a gas stove in order to prepare
breakfast/dinner. We also have a restaurant business and the ability to prepare orders on an
electric appliance on a busy night would be next to impossible. 
I believe the city should provide the pros and cons of switching over to electric appliances,
then let the people decide whether to move in that direction. Forcing the people to switch to
electricity is not in the best interests of the citizenry of San Mateo.
Regards,
Maureen Galindo
20 of 28

--- page 21 ---
From:
To:
Andrea Chow
Subject:
Re: Reminder: Electrify San Mateo: Upcoming Community Meetings
Date:
Tuesday, May 13, 2025 2:10:42 PM
Attachments:
image003.png
Hi Andrea, 
Thank you for the reminder. Unfortunately, I will not be able to attend the meeting. I would
like to provide a comment. The City currently has a $5 million deficit. Next year the
deficit balloons to $15 million. In light of this dire situation, I think the city should look
carefully at all line-item expenditures. Climate resiliency is one area where the city could
postpone expenditures. At 0.10 to 0.12 inches sea level rise per year, we have some time. Let's
postpone significant expenditures for at least 2 years.
Thank you,
Laurie Hietter
On Tue, May 13, 2025 at 2:00 PM Andrea Chow
<achow_at_cityofsanmateo_org_hg09my13xj62jc_0csc7630@icloud.com> wrote:
Reminder! Upcoming community meetings for Electrify San Mateo:
May 14: Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
May 21: Community Relations Commission
 
We invite you to share your feedback and shape the Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable
Building Strategy. Community feedback will be shared with City Council tentatively
scheduled for June 16, 2025. Please see the Public Meeting Portal for meeting agenda and
information posted roughly one week before the Commission meetings.
 
Andrea
 
Andrea Chow
Sustainability Analyst
City Manager’s Office
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7007 | achow@cityofsanmateo.org
 
 
21 of 28

--- page 22 ---
From: Andrea Chow 
Sent: Monday, April 28, 2025 2:14 PM
Subject: Electrify San Mateo: Three Upcoming Community Meetings
 
Hello,
 
Switching from natural gas to carbon-free electric equipment in our homes and buildings is
critical to reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in our community. Gas appliances
release air pollutants and studies have shown that exposure to these pollutants pose
significant health risks. In addition to advancing our climate goals, electrification eliminates
these risks and can provide a safer and healthier environment. The Electrify San Mateo
project team will present existing building electrification policy pathways at three upcoming
City Commission meetings:
May 12: Senior Advisory Commission
May 14: Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
May 21: Community Relations Commission
 
We invite you to share your feedback and shape the Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable
Building Strategy. Community feedback will be shared with City Council tentatively
scheduled for June 2025. Please see the Public Meeting Portal for meeting agenda and
information posted roughly one week before the Commission meetings.
 
Andrea
 
 
Andrea Chow
Sustainability Analyst
City Manager’s Office
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
22 of 28

--- page 23 ---
650-522-7007 | achow@cityofsanmateo.org
 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any
attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed.
It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not
the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this
message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error,
please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete
this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.
-- 
Laurie 
23 of 28

--- page 24 ---
From:
wendy woodard
To:
Andrea Chow
Subject:
Electric Conversion
Date:
Wednesday, March 5, 2025 10:16:04 AM
I am not in favor of moving up a deadline that surpasses state law and the Bay Area
Air Quality Management District. 
Wendy Woodard
24 of 28

--- page 25 ---
From:
Dino Martins
To:
Andrea Chow; City Council (San Mateo); mewsom@cityofsanmateo.org; Clerk
Subject:
Electrify San Mateo - 
, San Mateo
Date:
Monday, April 28, 2025 2:40:17 PM
Hello Andrea,
I just received your email pertaining to the upcoming meetings/discussions
regarding the "Electrify San Mateo" initiative.
Unfortunately I am going out of town in May during the dates that you
listed when the public discussions are taking place.
I just went through the process of getting my service upgraded to
accommodate some enhancements that we made to the property and to
be prepared for the upcoming requirement of switching over from natural
gas to electricity. The process was a disaster and took almost one year to
get completed. While the main issues were with PG&E the City of San
Mateo also contributed to the delays.
There is WAY TOO MUCH RED TAPE in the current process. In our case this
lead to costly delays and much frustration to my wife and I.
I would be happy to share my thoughts with you, should you or someone
else want to reach out to discuss in detail.
I hope to hear back from someone.
My mobile number is: 
.
Warm regards,
Gualdino "Dino" Martins
, San Mateo, CA 94402
     
25 of 28

--- page 26 ---
From:
Ines Malardino
To:
Alex Khojikian; Andrea Chow
Subject:
No on decarbonization pls
Date:
Wednesday, March 5, 2025 12:01:08 PM
 
Hello…
 
The proposed plan to begin the decarbonization of existing homes, commercial, and
retail buildings
 is so unacceptable for so many reasons. Please do not assist on this?
 
 
Ines Malardino
26 of 28

--- page 27 ---
From:
William Williams
To:
Andrea Chow
Subject:
Electrification
Date:
Friday, February 21, 2025 10:55:25 AM
Please take into consideration the cost of modifying small existing structures.
The power grid does not have sufficient capacity to provide for "all-electric."
Higher electric rates add a forever escalating cost on top of modification costs.
The best solution is to have everyone consume less energy instead of increasing electricity
demand.
X Bill Williams, San Mateo
Sent from Outlook
27 of 28

--- page 28 ---
To: rea

Cc: Alex Khojikian
Subject: Mandates decarbonization
Date: Friday, February 28, 2025 1:17:47 PM
Attachments: image001.png
image005.pnq

Business Owner 37 years in San Mateo.

Saddened to see the same ridiculous unsupportive feel good policies being proposed with
respect to mandating carbon emission elimination. How many more productive Californians
you want to lose?

My State has become the laughingstock of the US, highest gas prices, PG & E through the roof,
highest taxes, woke policies right and left yet San Mateo wants to continue to further restrict
and overwhelm the power grid for virtue signaling feel good policies.

Opposed to this but the further trampling on the productive sector will continue. | remember
Newsom saying he was going to find out why gas prices were so high. He went silent when he
realized it was all policies and taxes.

Raymond Laherrere

First Equity Property Management
p:
a:

/|aon

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This communication constitutes an electronic communication within the meaning of
the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, 18 USC 2510, sent by First Equity Property Management and its
disclosure is strictly limited to the recipient intended by the sender of this message. This communication may
contain confidential and privileged material for the sole use of the intended recipient and receipt by anyone other
than the intended recipient does not constitute a loss of the confidential or privileged nature of the communications.
Any review or distribution by another is strictly prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact the
sender by return of this electronic mail and delete all copies of this communication. If you are not the intended
addressee, (a) any disclosure, reproduction, distribution, or action you take because of it is strictly prohibited; (b)
please return the complete message to the sender, and (c) this message is not a solicitation for purchase or sale or
an agreement of any kind whatsoever that binds the sender.

Mateo, CA 94403

BBB Rating: A+
ACCREDITED Sener
BUSINESS cee

Click for Profile

28 of 28
