--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 20-3025
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
June 01, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Police Department Technology – Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Review and provide feedback on Police Department technology, including proposed use of fixed automated license plate 
readers and implementation of a small Unmanned Aircraft System program. 
BACKGROUND:
The Police Department continually seeks to expand and enhance its crime detection and crime solving capabilities by 
leveraging technology. One of the City’s current priorities is the Safe and Secure Neighborhoods Initiative, which supports 
the implementation of advancements in technology to combat crime. This initiative was developed in response to the 
recent uptick in property crimes. 
ALPR Program 
The San Mateo Police Department has utilized automated license plate reader (ALPR) technology to solve crime and 
provide evidence to prosecutors since 2011. The use of ALPR technology has become an industry standard and a best 
practice for criminal investigations. In 2019, the City Council approved the replacement of the department’s six ALPR 
systems in the amount of $108,124.30. This equates to approximately $18,020 per unit. Four (4) devices have been 
installed on police patrol vehicles and two (2) on mobile traffic control trailers. 
ALPR technology is rapidly advancing and equipment is becoming less expensive, making it more readily accessible to 
cities, homeowner and neighborhood associations, shopping centers, and business districts.  Through the San Mateo 
County Police Chiefs and Sheriffs Association, staff became aware of equipment and technology provided by Flock Safety. 
This company originally developed its ALPR equipment as an affordable security device for homeowners’ and 
neighborhood associations. Over the past few years, Flock Safety has further refined and developed its equipment to be 
used by the public sector at the same affordable pricing. Flock System leases a turnkey system, which includes the physical 
equipment and backend software at a cost of approximately $2,000 per unit, per year. The anticipated service life of 
existing ALPR equipment is approximately five (5) years, resulting in an approximately 45% cost savings savings per unit 
over that time period. 
The San Mateo Police Department has four (4) ALPR equipped police patrol vehicles that capture data while moving or 
stopped and two (2) traffic trailers equipped with ALPR that capture data from a stationary position. The traffic trailers can 
be quickly moved from location to location. The Flock Safety ALPR devices are currently designed and limited to operate 
from stationary locations, such as a light pole or a utility pole. Flock ALPR cameras can also be installed on traffic speed 
feedback and changeable message boards for rapid deployment to from location to location. Nearby Cities who have or 
are anticipated to acquire Flock System equipment include: San Ramon, Danville, Foster City, Milpitas, Union City, Newark, 
Benicia, South San Francisco, and Atherton. 
105 of 119

--- page 2 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Staff is seeking to explore the deployment of Flock ALPR cameras in areas vulnerable to property crimes and gang-related 
activity throughout the City. Strategic deployment of ALPR cameras in fixed locations will allow the Police Department to 
react more quickly to real-time events and research captured data to discover the responsible individuals who have 
committed crimes using a vehicle. A key strength of ALPR technology is that police investigators can access near real-time 
information to rapidly deploy officers in the field to locate and apprehend criminals. Having more locations with ALPR 
technology enhances this capability. An initial program cost for equipment and installation will not exceed $50,000 
annually. With the affordability of the Flock System ALPR devices, the City can reasonably scale up or down equipment as 
needed. Additionally, it is anticipated that the presence of this technology may deter those seeking to participate in 
criminal activity.  
ALPR Data Retention & Privacy
ALPR data is essentially a picture of a vehicle, its license plate, a date and time stamp as to when the picture was captured, 
and the location of the ALPR device. Identifying information regarding the vehicle’s license is accessed through other 
official law enforcement databases, such as the California Department of Motor Vehicles. Raw, unprocessed ALPR data is 
not stored or retained by SMPD. We utilize the strictest industry standards with respect to how the data is accessed and by 
whom. We have a records sharing agreement with the Northern California Regional Intelligence Center (NCRIC), along with 
all of the other allied County law enforcement agencies, to ensure adherence to these strict standards. Although Flock 
Systems is a private company, they do not have access to identifying information for the ALPR image data they are 
collecting through their devices. This raw ALPR data is retained on their servers for up to 30 days. The raw ALPR data will 
be uploaded directly to the NCRIC in San Francisco within 30 days, where it is stored and managed based on stringent 
federally-constructed policies. Access to the NCRIC data is strictly regulated and is for law enforcement personnel only. 
The ALPR data stored on NCRIC servers is automatically deleted after one year per Federal guidelines, unless it is part of an 
ongoing investigation. Once the ALPR data is deleted, it cannot be retrieved.
 
SMPD maintains security procedures as well as usage and privacy policies to protect the ALPR data collected. SMPD is in 
compliance with the law, and maintains a webpage explaining our commitment to privacy and strict procedures in the use 
of ALPRs. The page includes our Policy and Privacy Impact Assessment in coordination with NCRIC, as well as links to the 
Countywide record sharing and data accessing relationship with NCRIC. SMPD’s compliance was singled out as exemplary 
in the San Mateo County Grand Jury’s 2016-2017 report “A Delicate Balance - Privacy vs. Protection.”
Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems Equipment Program 
Police Departments and first responders across the county are adopting small Unmanned Aircraft Systems (sUAS) in 
support of their public safety and law enforcement missions. With widespread adoption of small Unmanned Aircraft 
Systems, police agencies are discovering the benefits of affordable, reliable, and rapid deployment of flight services 
traditionally limited to manned aircraft. The aerial perspective has always been a coveted tool in search and rescue 
missions, to locate missing persons, find dangerous suspects and fugitives, inspect otherwise hazardous locations or 
objects, investigate crime scenes or traffic collisions, and detect dangers that would otherwise not be seen from the 
ground, all from a safe location.  In recent years, the cost of sUAS have fallen, while the safety and reliability of these 
aircraft has significantly improved to the point sUAS have become a tool of necessity for public safety and law 
enforcement services. 
A sUAS consists of an unmanned aircraft weighing under 55 lbs., the command system, a secure control link, and other 
related safety support equipment. The sUAS aircraft, whether a fixed wing or rotocopter, is intended to navigate in the air 
without an onboard pilot. 
Anticipated Flight Operations 
All sUAS operations will be operated by San Mateo Police personnel who have been trained and certified in the operation 
of the sUAS. Flights will be approved in advance by the sUAS Unit Commander and Pilot, who will both ensure compliance 
with San Mateo Police Department’s sUAS policy. A copy of the proposed policy is included as Attachment 1, and a 
summary of FAA Part 107 flight restrictions area included as Attachment 2. 
106 of 119

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Proposed authorized sUAS missions are: 
• Post-incident crime scene preservation and documentation 
• Explosive ordnance disposal (EOD) missions 
• Response to hazardous materials spills 
• Search and Rescue (SAR) missions as defined in California Government Code Section 26614 
• Public safety and life preservation missions to include barricaded suspects, hostage situations, active shooters, 
apprehension of armed and dangerous and/or violent fleeing suspects, and high-risk search warrants 
• Disaster response and recovery to include natural- or human-caused disasters including a full overview of a disaster area 
for post-incident analysis and documentation 
• Training missions as authorized for proficiency or by the Training Certificate of Authorization 
• In response to specific requests from local, state or federal fire authorities for fire response and prevention 
• When there is probable cause to believe that (1) the sUAS will record images of a place, thing, condition, or event; and 
(2) that those images would be relevant in proving that a certain felony had occurred or is occurring, or that a particular 
person committed or is committing a certain felony and use of the sUAS does not infringe upon the reasonable 
expectation of privacy 
• Pursuant to a search warrant 
Recent activities where a sUAS would have proved useful include the recent gang-related shooting that resulted in a 
homicide. A sUAS could have been helpful in locating the weapon in an environmentally hazardous area. In May, a sUAS 
could have been helpful when SMPD had been alerted to group of auto burglars in the area of San Mateo County Medical 
Center. A sUAS also could have been helpful to SMPD’s investigation of a hit-and-run pedestrian fatality. 
A top concern with any sUAS program is privacy. During flight, the remote pilot in command will take all steps to ensure 
the camera is focused on the areas necessary to the mission and refrain from the collection of data concerning uninvolved 
persons or places. The FAA and the proposed SMPD policy have strict rules and regulations as to when, where, how, and 
why a sUAS operations is permitted. The sUAS will not be equipped with any weapons. 
Proposed sUAS Program 
To initiate the sUAS program, staff expects to maintain a minimum of two (2) operational ready sUAS aircraft. Each of the 
proposed aircraft have different capabilities and complement one another.  Two aircraft provide redundancy to prevent a 
lapse in operation during battery exchanges for critical events.  Two aircraft are also desired for larger scale events and 
natural disasters.  Staff intends to purchase sUAS aircraft that is widely accepted in the public safety sector and from a 
manufacturer’s authorized dealer. Essential aircraft includes purchasing a DJI Matrice 300 RTK quadcopter with Zenmuse 
H20 Series FLIR and camera with supporting electronics, and a DJI Mavic 2 Enterprise quadcopter with supporting 
electronics. Initial startup equipment costs for FAA licensing, training, and aircraft systems are expected to be 
approximately $40,000. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact as a result of this informational item. Future purchases associated with the lease of Flock 
System equipment will be absorbed within the Police Department operating budget. Purchase of sUAS Equipment and FAA 
licensing are eligible for asset forfeiture funds with no impact to the General Fund. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - San Mateo Police Department Draft sUAS Policy 
Att 2 - Summary of FAA Part 107 Regulations
107 of 119

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police 
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7600 
Dave Peruzzaro, Police Captain 
dperuzzaro@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7684
108 of 119

--- page 5 ---
San Mateo Police Department 
POLICIES 
Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) Operations 
Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) Operations - 
1 
 
 
San Mateo Police Department 
                POLICIES 
 
 
 
Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) Operations 
999.1 PURPOSE AND SCOPE 
The purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines and protocol for the deployment and use of the 
small Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) including the retention and/or destruction of media obtained 
using the UAS in accordance with applicable Federal law, State law, and City of San Mateo 
regulations. 
 
999.1.1 DEFINITIONS 
(a) 
Certificate of Authorization (COA): Given by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) 
granting permission to fly the UAS within specific boundaries and perimeters. 
(b) 
Observer: A member of the San Mateo Police Department who is trained and 
authorized to maintain visual observation of the UAS while in flight. 
(c) 
Remote Pilot In Command (PIC): A member of the San Mateo Police Department who 
is trained, certified and authorized to control a UAS during flight. 
(d) 
Unmanned Aerial System (UAS): Consists of the small, unmanned aircraft weighing 
more than 0.55 lbs. and less than 55 lbs., the command system, a secure control link 
and other safety and support systems for operation of the UAS. 
(e) 
Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV): A small, unmanned aircraft weighing more than 0.55 
lbs. and less than 55 lbs. 
 
999.2 POLICY 
The UAS may be utilized to enhance the department’s mission of protecting lives and property. Any 
use of the UAS will be in strict accordance with constitutional and privacy rights, FAA regulations, 
and department policy. 
 
999.3 PRIVACY 
The use of the UAS potentially involves privacy considerations. Personnel will consider the 
protection of individual civil rights and the reasonable expectation of privacy as a key component 
of any decision made to deploy the UAS. Operators will take reasonable precautions to avoid 
inadvertently recording or transmitting images that infringe upon an individual’s right to privacy. 
 
999.4 USE OF UAS 
A Sergeant or higher-ranking officer may authorize the deployment of the UAS under the 
following circumstances: 
(a) 
Public safety and life preservation missions including, barricaded suspects, hostage 
situations, active shooters, apprehension of armed and dangerous fleeing suspects, 
and high-risk search warrants; 
Policy 
TBD 
109 of 119

--- page 6 ---
San Mateo Police Department 
POLICIES 
Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) Operations 
Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) Operations - 
2 
 
 
(b) 
Mass casualty events; 
(c) 
Lost or missing persons; 
(d) 
Rescue events; 
(e) 
Disaster response and recovery; 
(f) 
Suspected explosive devices; 
(g) 
Fire suppression or investigation; 
(h) 
Hazardous material releases; 
(i) 
Post-incident crime scene preservation and documentation; 
(j) 
Pursuant to a search warrant; 
(k) 
Special Events; 
(l) 
Traffic management; 
(m) 
Collision Investigations; 
(n) 
When there is probable cause to believe that the UAS will record images of a place, 
thing, condition, or event, and that those images tend to show a felony has been 
committed, or tends to show that a particular person has committed a felony. 
(o) 
Anytime a UAS would enhance public safety, improve operational safety, incident 
stabilization or incident mitigation as determined by the authorizing person and PIC; 
(p) 
Anti-UAV operations when a person is operating a UAV in a manner which impedes 
emergency personnel who, in the course of their duties, are coping with an emergency 
(refer to Penal Code § 402(a)1); 
(q) 
Training missions; 
(r) 
In support of San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department when the underlying mission 
meets the uses outlined in this policy; and 
(s) 
Mutual Aid support when the underlying mission meets the uses outlined in this policy. 
 
614.4.1 CALLOUT PROCEDURE 
(a) 
The on-duty supervisor should make a request via dispatch for qualified UAS team 
members to respond and deploy the UAS. 
1. 
Dispatch will call the UAS Team Supervisor who will coordinate the callout 
details with team members. 
2. 
If the UAS Team Supervisor is unavailable a supervisor shall call the on-call 
command staff member to facilitate the response of a UAS flight team member. 
(b) 
The UAS flight team members will handle all UAS operations, notifications and all 
necessary pre-flight guidelines as specified in the UAS Operations Guidelines. 
 
 
 
 
 
110 of 119

--- page 7 ---
San Mateo Police Department 
POLICIES 
Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) Operations 
Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) Operations - 
3 
 
 
999.5 PROHIBITED USE 
The UAS shall not be weaponized, nor shall it be used to: 
(a) 
Conduct random surveillance activities; 
(b) 
Target a person based solely on individual characteristics, such as race, ethnicity, 
national origin, religion, disability, gender or sexual orientation; or 
(c) 
Conduct any business other than official Department business. 
 
999.6 EVIDENCE COLLECTION AND RETENTION 
(a) 
To avoid missing critical evidence during UAS operations, all UAS video will be 
recorded during flight. The pilot will manually activate the record feature on the UAS 
within one minute from the start of the flight will stop recording within one minute of 
landing when. 
(b) 
Following a UAS operation, the investigating officer or detective shall meet with the 
UAS operator to collect the UAS digital media storage media containing the video(s). 
The video(s) recorded by the Fire Department and/or the Police Department will be 
uploaded into the approved digital evidence management system (DEMS) such as 
Evidence.com. After uploading the video(s) into the DEMS, the digital media storage 
media will be returned to service after reformatting the media. If uploading the video(s) 
to the DEMS is unavailable, the digital media storage media will be booked into 
property as physical evidence. The collection and uploading of the video(s) will be 
documented by the investigation officer or detective. 
(c) 
The collection and uploading of the video(s) will be documented in a report by a San 
Mateo Police Department case agent or officer. All data collected by the UAS shall be 
retained as follows: 
(a) 
Categories and retention schedule: 
▪ 
Non-criminal evidence - 2 years 
▪ 
Traffic stop - 2 years 
▪ 
Criminal - Misdemeanor - 3 years 
▪ 
Criminal - Felony - 6 years 
▪ 
Test - 2 years 
615 
Unauthorized use, duplication, and/or distribution of UAS videos are prohibited. Personnel 
shall not make copies of any UAS videos for their personal use and are prohibited from 
using a recording device such as a personal camera or any secondary video camera to 
capture UAS videos. All recorded media, images and audio are   the property of the San 
Mateo Police Department and shall not be copied, released or disseminated in any form 
or manner outside the parameters of this policy without the expressed written consent of 
the Chief of Police. 
616 
Supervisors may only review recorded UAS video files when he or she has a legitimate 
business purpose. In addition, San Mateo Police personnel shall only review any recorded 
UAS video files when he or she has a right to know or need to know may review any 
recorded UAS video files, including under the following circumstances: 
 
111 of 119

--- page 8 ---
San Mateo Police Department 
POLICIES 
Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) Operations 
Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) Operations - 
4 
 
 
 
999.1 For the purpose of completing a criminal investigation and preparing official reports. 
999.2 To prepare for courtroom testimony or courtroom presentation. 
999.3 Following a critical incident: with supervisor approval, refer to Officer-Involved 
Shooting/Great Bodily Injury Incidents policy. 
999.4 For potential training purposes. 
617 
Departmental request for a UAS video, including requests from the District Attorney’s 
Office or City Attorney’s Office, shall be forwarded through standard chains of 
communication regarding the dissemination of evidence.  
618 
Non-Departmental Requests for a UAS video shall be accepted and processed in 
accordance with Federal, State, and local laws, and departmental policy (discovery, media 
inquiries, subpoenas, Public Records Act requests, etc.). 
1.  When practical, Department personnel will be advised prior to any release of UAS 
video under the California Public Records Act (CPRA). 
619 Request for Deletion or Accidental Recording 
999.1 In the event of an accidental activation and recording of the UAS camera system, the 
recording employee may request that the UAS video is deleted by submitting an e-mail 
request to the Patrol Division Commander with sufficient information to locate the UAS 
video. The Patrol Division Commander shall review the video, approve or deny the deletion 
request, and forward to the System Administrator for action if applicable. 
999.2 Videos made during authorized department training will be viewed and/or retained for 
training purposes and then may be retained or deleted with the authorization of a 
lieutenant. Retained files will be stored in approved training files or the digital management 
system. 
620 Copying Procedures 
1. 
A copy of the UAS video can be requested in accordance with the provisions of 
this policy and current department policies. 
2. 
Property Officers will be responsible for handling evidence request for DVD 
copies and online sharing of videos produced by the UAS camera system for 
court and other approved request by the Chief of Police or his/her designee. 
621 
A UAS video may be utilized as a training tool for individuals, specific units, and the 
department as a whole. A recommendation to utilize a UAS video for such purpose may 
come from any source outlined below: 
1. 
A person recommending utilization of a UAS video for training purposes shall 
submit the recommendation through the chain of command to the Watch 
Commander. 
2. 
The Watch Commander approving the utilization of a UAS video for training will 
send an email to Property requesting a copy of the video is placed in the UAS 
Training file on the t: drive. This file will hold all training videos. Videos may not 
be moved to other files, copied or sent beyond this file. 
3. 
If an involved officer or employee objects to the showing of a UAS video, his/ 
her objection will be submitted to their supervisor to determine if the employee’s 
objections outweigh the training value. The Patrol Division Commander or 
112 of 119

--- page 9 ---
San Mateo Police Department 
POLICIES 
Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) Operations 
Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) Operations - 
5 
 
 
Division Chief shall review the recommendation and determine how best to 
utilize the UAS video file considering the identity of the person(s) involved, 
sensitivity of the incident, and the benefit of utilizing the video versus other 
means (e.g., departmental policy, Training Bulletin, Officer Safety Bulletin, 
briefing or other training). 
 
999.1 ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
The roles and responsibilities for UAS Program members are as follows: 
(a) 
Program Coordinator—a Police Sergeant or Lieutenant who manages the UAS 
Program and ensures the program operates in accordance with all Federal, State and 
local laws, and within department policy and guidelines. In addition, the Program 
Coordinator will: 
1. 
Maintain all training flight and maintenance records for each operator and 
observer, as well as individual airframes. 
2. 
Ensure operators and observers stay current with their training and certifications. 
3. 
Maintain contact with the FAA and familiarity with the pertinent FAA regulations. 
4. 
Evaluate airframes based on mission needs. 
5. 
Remain up to date with current UAS case law, best practices, and industry 
standards. 
6. 
Develop and maintain the UAS Operational Guidelines Manual 
(b) 
Remote Pilot in Command (PIC) —the PIC is responsible for maintaining a 
current FAA Part 107 certificate. The PIC will ensure the safe operation of the UAS in 
accordance with all applicable law and policy. 
1. 
The PIC may reject a flight based on personnel safety or violation of FAA 
regulations. 
2. 
The PIC shall be responsive to requests and input from the observer in order to 
accomplish the safe and effective deployment of the UAS. 
3. 
PCI is responsible for mission documentation and updating the flight book. 
(c) 
Observer—the Observer’s role is to assist in the safe and effective operation of the 
UAS. The observer shall: 
1. 
Assist the operator in avoiding obstacles 
2. 
Operate any attachments to the UAS 
3. 
Remain alert for safety issues surrounding the operator and observer 
4. 
Handle radio communications. 
113 of 119

--- page 10 ---
Attachment 2 
 
Flight Operation Rules 
Without a FAA flight waiver, one can generally operate a sUAS under the following Part 107 rules: 
• Unmanned aircraft must weigh less than 55 lbs. 
• The remote pilot in command must have visual line-of-sight (VLOS) personally or with an approved 
visual observer.  
• At all times the small unmanned aircraft must remain close enough to the remote pilot in 
command and the person manipulating the flight controls of the small UAS for those people to be 
capable of seeing the aircraft with vision unaided by any device other than corrective lenses. 
• Small unmanned aircraft may not operate over any persons not directly participating in the 
operation, not under a covered structure, and not inside a covered stationary vehicle. 
• Daylight-only operations, or civil twilight (30 minutes before official sunrise to 30 minutes after 
official sunset, local time) with appropriate anti-collision lighting. 
• Must yield right of way to other aircraft. 
• May use visual observer (VO), but not required. 
• First-person view camera cannot satisfy “see-and-avoid” requirement but can be used as long as 
requirement is satisfied in other ways. 
• Maximum groundspeed of 100 mph. 
• Maximum altitude of 400 feet above ground level (AGL) or, if higher than 400 feet AGL, remain 
within 400 feet of a structure. 
• Minimum weather visibility of 3 miles from control station. 
• Operations in Class B, C, D and E airspace are allowed with the required ATC permission. 
• Operations in Class G airspace are allowed without ATC permission. 
• No person may act as a remote pilot in command or VO for more than one unmanned aircraft 
operation at one time. 
• No operations from a moving aircraft. 
• No operations from a moving vehicle unless the operation is over a sparsely populated area. 
• No careless or reckless operations. 
• No carriage of hazardous materials. 
 
 
 
114 of 119

--- page 11 ---
JUNE 1, 2020 CITY COUNCIL MEETING
TECHNOLOGY UPDATE

--- page 12 ---
One of the City’s current priorities is the Safe and 
Secure Neighborhoods Initiative which supports the 
implementation of advancements in technology to 
fight crime.

--- page 13 ---
Automatic License Plate Readers
(ALPR)
Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems
(sUAS)

--- page 14 ---
TECHNOLOGY TOOLS
• Proactive crime prevention through media
• Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED)
• San Mateo’s Neighborhood Eyes Security Team (NEST)
• Community embedded technology – CCTV
• Intelligence-led “hot-spot” deployments
• Interagency communication and strategy
• Undercover and sting operations
• Video & in person surveillance 
• Crime Mapping Tool
• ALPR 
• SUAS 

--- page 15 ---
ALPR AT SAN MATEO POLICE
• SMPD ALPR Technology Use Since 2011
• Data is uploaded to the Northern CA Regional Intelligence Center
•
Stored & managed under high security with strict federal storage/retention policies
•
Data access only under specific conditions outlined by policy
•
Legitimate LE purpose only with a complex multi-token authentication process
•
Records-sharing agreement between NCRIC and our allied SM County law enforcement 
agencies
• SMPD meets all legal compliance for ALPRs
•
We are the example other agencies follow
• Privacy is paramount – No Data Breaches!
• SMPD Officers use the ALPR database daily to investigate crimes 
and locate missing persons

--- page 16 ---
FLOCK SAFETY
Flock Safety provides advanced ALPR security systems for neighborhoods
Flock Safety began to assist neighborhood associations in gathering 
information to assist local police to investigate crime. 
Flock Safety has reconfigured its equipment to office local police 
agencies an affordable alternative to expense proprietary ALPR 
equipment and services.
Compact, all-in-one, self-contained unit that is easy to install. 
Enhanced user interface.

--- page 17 ---
WHY FLOCK SAFETY
$$$$$
$$
The cost of security equipment is falling.

--- page 18 ---
ALPR TECHNOLOGY COSTS
2019 – Council Approved $108,124.30 for 6 ALPR Systems
• One time cost of about $18,020 per system + Monthly Wireless fees
2020 – Flock Safety ALPR is about $2,000.00 annually (no monthly fees)
• An initial savings of about 89%
• 5 Year savings of about 53.7% ($10,000 vs. $21,620)
KEY DIFFERENCES
• Current ALPRs are attached to patrol vehicles or fixed objects 
such as a traffic trailer
• Flock systems ALPR requires a fixed position such as a light pole, 
traffic trailer, building, etc.

--- page 19 ---
TYPICAL ALPR DEPLOYMENT
• Hot Spot Policing Area
• Rapid deployment of equipment
• Scalable – easily add & remove equipment
• Special events
• Traffic Studies – unique vehicles, cut-through traffic
• Wanted Persons or Vehicles

--- page 20 ---
COMMUNITY ALPR USE
Nearby cities who have or are anticipated to acquire Flock Systems
• San Ramon
• Danville
• Foster City
• Milpitas
• Union City
• Newark
• Benicia
• South San Francisco
• Atherton

--- page 21 ---
INITIAL FLOCK SYSTEM PROGRAM COSTS
• Initial program cost for equipment & installation will not exceed 
$50,000.00 annually.
• With the affordability of the Flock System ALPR devices the City 
can reasonably scale up or down equipment as needed.
• Funds are available in the current budget through an existing 
Police Department technology account.
• Flock provides camera installation, maintenance, hardware, 
footage hosting, and cellular connection for each community 
under the Flock Safety umbrella.

--- page 22 ---
SMALL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS


--- page 23 ---
SMALL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS
A sUAS aircraft, whether a fixed wing or 
rotocopter, is intended to navigate in 
the air without an onboard pilot and 
weighing under 55 lbs.

--- page 24 ---
UAS ADOPTION
Public Safety agencies are discovering the benefits of affordable, reliable, and 
rapid deployment of flight services traditionally limited to manned aircraft. 
The aerial perspective has always been a coveted tool
• In search and rescue missions
• In detection of dangers that would otherwise not be seen from the ground
• In disaster surveying 
• To locate missing persons
• To find dangerous suspects and fugitives
• To inspect hazardous locations or objects
• To investigate crime scenes or traffic collisions
All from a safe location

--- page 25 ---
MANNED VS UNMANNED AIRCRAFT
• 2 Pilots & 1 Flight Officer
• Hourly Rate is $300.00
• Requires time to prepare
• Delays to refuel
• Shared County Resource
• Height Minimums
• Pandemic Exposure Risks
• 1 Pilot
• Rapid Deployment
• Police staff out of harms way
• Remote Operations
• No Pandemic Risks
• Cheap to operate

--- page 26 ---
FLIGHT Operations
Highlights of SMPD’s sUAS Operations Policy
• sUAS operations will be operated by trained & FAA certified SMPD personnel
• Flights will be approved in advance by the sUAS Unit Commander & Pilot
• Personnel shall follow SMPD’s policy & will be used for official use only
• All operations shall comply with all FAA Regulations
• Shall Not Be Weaponized
Highlights of FAA Part 107 flight restrictions:
• Pilot must be FAA certified
• Pilot must have visual line-of-sight of aircraft 
• No operations from a moving aircraft.
• No operations from a moving vehicle
• No careless or reckless operations
• No use of hazardous materials
• 400’ Above Ground Level Limit

--- page 27 ---
FLIGHT USES
San Mateo prides itself in being an innovative leader in providing the highest level 
of service to our community through the use the latest technology.
•
sUAS are a proven technology saving lives by keeping first responders out of 
harm’s way in dangerous & hazardous conditions and expanding search & 
rescue operations.
•
sUAS can support first responders in situations that benefit from an aerial 
perspective & enable first responders to detect dangers that could otherwise 
not be seen. 
•
sUAS can be used to assist in traffic collision & crime scene investigations.
•
sUAS can expand significantly search capabilities of missing persons.

--- page 28 ---
FLIGHT USES CONTINUED
•
A sUAS with a FLIR camera can help officers locate the missing, injured, 
disoriented, or distressed people on land or over water (windsurfer) at night. 
Like other cities, San Mateo experiences spikes in crime and the City will greatly 
benefit from sUAS equipment, recent examples include:
• A gang shooting that resulted in a homicide
• In locating a firearm in an environmentally hazardous area
• In locating a group of fleeing auto burglars near the SMC Medical Center
• In the investigation of a hit & run pedestrian fatality
• Locating fleeing gang suspects from an officer during a high risk traffic stop

--- page 29 ---
PRIVACY
A top concern with any sUAS program is privacy. 
The pilot in command will take all steps to ensure the camera is focused on the 
areas necessary to the mission & refrain from the collection of data concerning 
uninvolved persons or places. 
All recorded video will be logged into evidence and readily available for 
auditing and supervisory oversight.
The FAA and our proposed SMPD policy have strict rules and regulations as to 
when, where, how, and why a sUAS operation is permitted.

--- page 30 ---
UNMANNED AIRCRAFT EQUIPMENT
To initiate the UAS program, staff expects to maintain a minimum of two (2) 
operational ready sUAS aircraft. 
Essential aircraft includes purchasing:
• A DJI Matrice 300 RTK quadcopter with Zenmuse H20 Series FLIR
• A DJI Mavic 2 Enterprise quadcopter with supporting electronics
Two aircraft are desired for redundancy so there is no lapse in operations during 
battery exchanges. One aircraft is faster to deploy than the other. Each aircraft 
has distinct capabilities that complement one another. 
Startup equipment costs for FAA licensing, training, and aircraft systems are 
expected to be approximately $40,000. 
Purchase of UAS Equipment and FAA licensing will come from asset forfeiture funds 
with no impact to the General Fund.

--- page 31 ---
QUESTIONS

