--- page 1 ---
COUNCIL MEMBERS 
Joe GoetheIs, Mayor 
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor 
Rick Bonilla 
Diane Pa pan 
Amourence Lee 
City of San Mateo 
Regular Meeting Minutes 
City Council 
Monday, June 1, 2020 
Remote 7:00 PM 
Regular Meeting 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org  
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom's 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency. 
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call 
Remote: Mayor Goethais, Deputy Mayor Rodriguez, Council Members: Bonilla, Papan and Lee 
CEREMONIAL 
1. 
Proclamation: Pride Month  
2. 
Proclamation: "Make Some Noise for the Class of 2020!" Celebration June 12, 2020 
CONSENT CALENDAR 
The following items, 3 through 11, were considered to be routine by the City Council. After the titles of the items were 
read by the City Clerk, the public was invited to comment and there were no speakers. Motion passed 5-0. 
Moved: Bonilla, Seconded: Lee 
Ayes: 	
Goethals, Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee 
Noes: 	
None 
3. 
City Council Meeting Minutes—Approval 
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meeting of May 18, 2020. 
4. 
Coronavirus Emergency Supplemental Funding Program — Grant Acceptance  
Adopt a Resolution to accept an award in the amount of $58,562 from the Coronavirus Emergency Supplemental 
Funding Program; authorize execution of all required documents; and appropriate funds to the Police Grants 
Budget Program. 
Enactment: Resolution No. 48 {2020) 
5. 
Board and Commission — Establish Annual Appointment Subcommittees  
Appoint Mayor Goethals and Council Member Lee to the Park & Recreation Commission and Senior Citizens 
Commission Appointment Subcommittees and appoint Mayor Goethals and Council Member Rodriguez to the 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Appointment Subcommittee. 
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes -- 06/01120 	
Page 1

--- page 2 ---
6. 
Fiscal Year 2020-21 General Obligation Bond — Tax Rate Levy 
Adopt a Resolution to levy the property tax rate of $0.0067 per $100 of assessed value (equates to $6.70 per 
$100,000 assessed value) for the voter-approved general obligation bond annual debt service payment. 
Enactment: Resolution No. 49 (2020) 
7. 
Police Department Verizon Wireless Expenses for City-Issued Cell Phones, Equipment, and Service — Change Order 
Approve a change order to the San Mateo Police Department's purchase order with Verizon Wireless for an 
additional $31,877.16 to cover the estimated remaining cost of service through June 2020 for city-issued cell 
phones, equipment, and service, bringing the cumulative amount for FY 2019-2020 to $121,877.16; and authorize 
the City Manager to approve costs of cumulative service in subsequent Fiscal Years, which are anticipated to 
exceed $100,000 annually. 
8. 
Downtown Business Improvement Area — Resolution of Intent for Annual Renewal  
Accept the fiscal year 2019-20 Downtown San Mateo Association Annual Report; adopt a Resolution of Intent to 
Levy the Annual Assessments for the Downtown Business Improvement Area; and set a public hearing for the June 
15, 2020 City Council meeting to consider levying the annual assessment. 
Enactment: Resolution No. 50 (2020) 
9. 
Downtown Parking Garage Pedestrian Safety Project—Agreement 
Approve a professional design services agreement with Advanced Mobility Group for Phase 1 of the Downtown 
Parking Garage Pedestrian Safety Project, with an option to amend the agreement to include Phase 2, for a total 
agreement amount not-to-exceed $120,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in 
substantially the form presented. 
10. 
Rail Shuttle Bus Service Administration Agreement — Amendments 
Approve Amendment No. 6 to the Campus Drive Rail Shuttle Bus Service Administrative Agreement and 
Amendment No. 6 to the Norfolk Area Rail Shuttle Bus Service Administrative Agreement with Peninsula Corridor 
Joint Powers Board for extension of shuttle operations for a total of $75,500, and authorize the Public Works 
Director to execute the amendments in substantially the form presented. 
11. 
Trash Capture at Poplar Avenue at the Golf Course Project —Appropriation and Agreement  
Adopt a Resolution to accept funding and appropriate $330,000 to the Trash Capture at Poplar Avenue at the Golf 
Course Project; approve a cooperative agreement for Caltrans to contribute a total amount of $330,000 for the 
design and construction of the project; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in 
substantially the form presented. 
Enactment: Resolution No. 51 (2020) 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Heather Cleary, CEO Peninsula Family Services, stated the need to speak up to injustice; Thomas Weissmuller stated the 
need to keep San Mateo peaceful. 
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes -- 06101/20 	
Page 2

--- page 3 ---
PUBLIC HEARING 
12. 
Proposed 2020-21 Budget and 2020-25 Capital Improvement Program — Review 
Finance Director Rich Lee provided an overview of the proposed 2020-21 budget and the 2020-25 Capital 
Improvement Program. Council asked questions of staff. The Mayor opened the Public Hearing, there were no 
speakers. The Mayor closed the Public Hearing. Discussion ensued on taking a measured approach to the budget 
and continuing to provide essential community services in these tough economic times due to the impacts of 
COVID-19, and timing of revenue enhancements. It was noted that the budget will be presented for adoption at 
the June 15, 2020 regular City Council meeting and a review of service levels will be brought to Council for review 
in October. 
OLD BUSINESS 
13. 
COVID-19 Update (#10)  
City Manager Drew Corbett provided an update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-
19. Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment — Kelly Moran expressed appreciation for staff's work on the 
slow streets in Bay Meadows. Council confirmed the adjustments to operations taken in response to the 
emergency proclamation including adjustments to parking enforcement. Motion passed 5-0. 
Moved: Bonilla, Seconded: Goethals 
Ayes: 	
Goethals, Rodriguez, Papan, Bonilla, and Lee 
Noes: None 
NEW BUSINESS 
24. 	
Police Department Technology — Update 
Police Sergeant Shannon Hagan provided an update on Police Department technology, including proposed use of 
fixed automated license plate readers (ALPR) and implementation of a small Unmanned Aircraft System 
programs. He noted that the program is funding from the asset forfeiture fund with no impact to the general 
fund. Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment — K. Preiser commented on the need to protect citizen's 
rights; Adam Loraine stated appreciation for the police to innovate with reasonable cost and various citizen 
protection techniques; and Doug Monterrosa asked about what discretion is used when deploying ALPR. Thomas 
Weissmuller asked if data collected would be used with other law enforcement agencies. Council provided 
comments in support of the programs and asked that it be brought back to report to Council after a year of 
experience with these programs. Council expressed appreciation for the presentation and thoughtful program 
and noted the community's concern with the technology and privacy should be addressed in a very transparent 
way. 
15. 	
Open Container and Outdoor Dining in Public Right of Way— Ordinance Introduction 
Management Fellow Denise Garcia and Assistant City Manager Kathy Kleinbaum provided a presentation on the 
need for outdoor dining to meet social distancing requirements due to COVID-19 pandemic. Council asked 
questions of staff. Public Comment Adam Loraine expressed an interest in full street closures; Doug 
Monterrosa, vendor for the City's street sweeping contract, suggested barricades and use of plastic; Erika Powell, 
expressed enthusiasm for this step. 
Introduce an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Section 10.04.080, "Drinking — Public Areas," to 
allow for alcohol consumption in the public right of way under specific permitted conditions, such as street 
closures for special events or outdoor dining for restaurants. Motion passed 5-0. 
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes — 06/01/20 	
Page 3

--- page 4 ---
ADJOURNMENT 
The meeting adjourned at 10:11 p.m. 
APPROVED BY: 
SUBMITTED BY: 
Moved: Papan, Seconded: Rodriguez 
Ayes: 	
Goethals, Rodriguez, Papan, Bonilla, and Lee 
Noes: 	
None 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
The City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members reported on their various assignments and liaison roles. 
Mayor Goethals noted that the Council had received a request from the proponents of the alternative initiative to the 
extension of Measure P that had qualified to gather signatures and then the City went into shelter-in-place for three 
months and they lost the opportunity to get signatures for their alternative measure. The proponents have requested 
that Council place their proposed initiative on the November 2020 ballot as a competing measure to the extension of 
Measure P. Mayor Goethals proposed a study session on this for June 15, 2020. Council concurred. 
Mayor Goethals asked about a possible closed session on June 15 for the Prometheus project at the former Trag's site 
due to some legal issues that has cropped up. Council concurred. 
CLOSED SESSION - RECONVENE TO CLOSED SESSION 
Following the opportunity for public comment, there were no speakers, the Council convened into closed session to 
consider: 
16. 	
Conference with Legal Counsel-Existing Litigation  
(Paragraph (1) of Subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9) Workers' Compensation Claim Gregory 
Moore 
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes —06/01/20 	
Page 4