--- page 1 ---
S t a f f  P o l i c i e s  M a n u a l  
402 – Purchasing Policy 
 
12/3/2018 
1 of 13 
 
Title: 
Purchasing Policy 
Policy #: 
402 
Sponsored by: 
Finance Department 
Approved by: 
City Manager 
Date: 
Issued: 1/6/2017 
Amended: 11/5/2018 
Purpose 
It is the policy of the City of San Mateo (“City”) to ensure accountability in the management of 
public funds by providing a clear framework for purchasing. In conformance with San Mateo 
Charter Chapter 5.21 and Municipal Code Chapter 3.60, this policy defines procedures for the 
procurement of goods and services. This policy also provides provisions to delegate the 
responsibility for the purchase of supplies equipment, services and public works projects to 
various officials of the City. This policy provides guidelines for appropriate methods for 
purchasing goods and services with City funds. 
Policy 
 
1. Municipal Code Chapter 3.60 incorporated herein by reference 
The City Council has established in its code, conditions and procedures for purchases 
and contracts required by the City. This code requires the City to obtain goods and 
services consistent with the quality needed for the proper operation of the various 
departments through the use of quotes and competitive bids whenever possible. It is the 
intent of this policy to obtain the best value when procuring goods by utilizing a 
competitive environment.  
2. Award Authorization Levels  
The City Manager has delegated award authority up to $50,000 to each Department 
Head. They in turn may delegate to a Division Manager an award authority up to 
$25,000. However, in the event the City Manager or a Department Head may be absent 
for a period of time, s/he may temporarily delegate their full award authority. Award 
authority level may not be delegated permanently. The award authorization levels are:

--- page 2 ---
402 – Purchasing Policy 
 
12/3/2018 
2 of 13 
DIVISION 
MANAGER 
DEPARTMENT 
HEAD AWARD 
CITY MANAGER 
AWARD 
COUNCIL 
AWARD 
Open Market 
Procedure 
Open Market 
Procedure 
Open Market 
Procedure 
Formal Bid 
Procedure 
Up to $25,000 
Up to $50,000 
$50,001-$99,999 
$100,000 and 
greater 
3. Financial Documentation Requirements 
A. Purchase orders are required for purchases of $10,000 and above, regardless of 
whether the transaction is for a single item or multiple items.  This requirement 
includes multiple goods and services transactions performed by the same vendor 
that are individually under $10,000 but that collectively exceed $10,000. 
B. Blanket Purchase Orders are generally used for purchases that will have multiple 
charge accounts used against it.  Threshold limits for blanket purchase orders 
follow the same limits as regular purchase orders.  Blanket Purchase Orders are 
NOT encumbered and only have a one fiscal year life term. 
C. Purchase Order Approval Reports are forms required for all purchases above 
$10,000 and serve as the document of record to identify the pertinent information 
in the transaction.  If the purchase is over $100,000, an Administrative Report to 
Council should be prepared in lieu of the Purchase Order Approval Report. 
4. Authorized Purchasing Alternatives 
Certain purchasing and bid alternatives are expressly approved by the City’s 
Municipal Code and may be used at the discretion of the supervising City 
department. Where bid procedures are designated, either open market or noticed 
bids are to be used depending on the amount of the contract. Where professional 
services are designated, they may be used.  Please refer to Municipal Code chapter 
3.60.070 for specific purchasing and bid alternatives. 
5. Exceptions  
Exceptions to adhering to the Purchasing Policy outlined in Municipal Code chapter 
3.60.050. Any exception must be approved by the appropriate approval level (see Policy 
section 2). For purchases over $10,000, the Purchase Order Approval Report should 
include a reference to the appropriate exception, if applicable.   Please refer to Municipal 
Code chapter 3.60.050 for allowable exceptions. 
6. Professional Services or Consulting Agreements 
Agreements may be awarded by the awarding authority, as determined according to 
expected price range of the contract, through a negotiated process and without the 
requirement for bidding and advertising. Professional services shall, whenever 
appropriate, be based on negotiations and/or written proposals with at least two

--- page 3 ---
402 – Purchasing Policy 
 
12/3/2018 
3 of 13 
professionals. The awarding authority as designated in Municipal Code Chapter 
3.60.020 may consider, in addition to cost, the experience of the professional, the quality 
of work that the professional has done, the ability of the professional to complete the 
project in a timely manner, and the insurance carried by the professional. 
7. Conflict of Interest 
All City Staff making purchases and/or entering into contracts on behalf of the City are 
subject to California conflict of interest laws.  As it relates to procurement decisions, City 
staff may not have a private, financial interest in any vendor from whom they are procuring 
goods and/or services.  If a City staff member does have a private, financial interest in a 
vendor that does business with the City, that staff member shall not be involved in any way 
with the procurement process or decision.  Staff with questions about whether they have a 
disqualifying financial interest in a vendor should consult with the City Attorney’s office 
before participating in any procurement in which they might have a private, financial interest. 
Scope 
This policy shall apply to all city employees, unless a department policy addresses the same 
subject. If there is a conflict between the requirements of this policy or the procedures 
implementing the policy and the department’s policy, the more restrictive shall apply, unless 
compliance with the more restrictive requirement would conflict with state law.  Further, 
purchases made with Federal Grant funds must be made in accordance with the Code of 
Federal Regulations: Title 2, Subtitle A, Chapter 2, Part 200, Subpart D, Procurement 
Standards.  This document should be reviewed and followed for purchases over $3,000 made 
with Federal Grant funds. 
Definitions 
1. Best value: A business decision to purchase goods and/or services that are based on 
the total cost of ownership and overall performance. 
2. Blanket Purchase Orders: Generally used for purchases that will have multiple charge 
accounts used against it.  Blanket purchase orders are only valid for one fiscal year. 
3. Bonds 
a. Bid (Surety): Any deposit required to be submitted as part of the bid process. 
b. Labor & Materials Bond (Surety): Any deposit or letter of credit required to be 
submitted to ensure that suppliers of labor and materials within the contract get 
paid for their services. 
c. Landscape Maintenance Bond (Surety): Any deposit or letter of credit required to 
be submitted to ensure that the newly developed facility is maintained for a 
specified period.

--- page 4 ---
402 – Purchasing Policy 
 
12/3/2018 
4 of 13 
d. Performance Bond (Surety): Any deposit required to be submitted to ensure the 
proper performance of the contract. 
4. Brand name/compatible products: Brand name or compatible products and furnishings 
that either match existing City products such as equipment or office furnishings, or have 
been determined to be the best value based on some type of performance testing. 
5. Change Order: As contained in this policy, the term “Change Order” includes 
adjustments to quantities that result in additions to the total purchase order cost, and for 
any language or account number adjustments. 
6. Contracts: A contract is an agreement having a lawful object entered into voluntarily by 
two or more parties, each of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations 
between them. 
7. Certificate of Non-Discrimination: A document that is included in all formal bids whereby 
bidders affirm equal employment opportunity for all qualified persons without regard to 
race, color, sex, age, religion, ancestry, physical or mental disability, marital status or 
national origin. Applies to recruiting, hiring, training, promoting, wages, benefits, and all 
other privileges, terms and conditions of employee. 
8. Continuing Performance: An activity or service which extends over a period of time not 
involving solely the delivery of materials or goods. 
9. Equipment: Mechanical items in a finished state of manufacture. 
10. Fixed assets: Any asset or set of assets with an original acquisition value of $10,000 or 
more and a life expectancy exceeding three years. 
11. Materials: Basic ingredients in unrefined, semi-refined, unmanufactured or semi-
manufactured state. 
12. Open Market: Purchase of goods, usually in smaller quantities, or in an emergency, 
without contract or negotiations. 
13. Piggyback contracts: A process that permits the use of other public agency contracts 
that have been competitively bid. 
14. Pre-qualification: A process that determines which prospective bidders possess 
sufficient experience, resources, bonds or financial ability to complete the contract for 
the particular type of purchase. 
15. Professional Services: Specialized services such as those rendered by architects, 
attorneys, engineers, technicians, and other professional consultants. 
16. Public legal notice: Advertisement must appear at least once in the official general 
circulation newspaper. 
17. Public Solicitation: Active search for competitive providers of services, products, etc.

--- page 5 ---
402 – Purchasing Policy 
 
12/3/2018 
5 of 13 
18. Public Works Project: Creation, improvement, and repair of buildings works and parks; 
construction and installation of streets and sewers; and works for the general benefit of 
the citizens. 
19. Purchase Order Approval Report:  The Purchase Order Approval Report is the 
supporting document justifying the purchase and the method of purchase.  This report is 
required for all purchases above $10,000 and should be approved by the person with the 
appropriate signature authority. 
20. Quote: Verbal or written offer of specific goods, supplies, or services at a specified price. 
21. Request for Proposals (RFP): An invitational method of acquiring goods or services for 
which the purpose and/or performance is known but for which no unique specification 
exists. The maker of each proposal offers his own specification to achieve the desired 
purpose/performance. The City reviews proposals which may be dissimilar in many 
respects and selects the one offering the greatest benefit/cost ratio. 
22. Request for Quote (RFQ): An informal version of an RFP that does not need to be 
published. RFQ is used for less elaborate bids that are desired. 
23. Requisition: A request to purchase goods or services that is entered into the City’s 
financial software. It provides all necessary information to the user’s request, which will 
go through predetermined approval queues resulting in the generation of a purchase 
order. 
24. Responsible bidder: A bidder who is financially responsible and possesses the 
resources, judgment, skill, ability, capacity, and integrity necessary to perform the 
contract according to its terms, and meets the provisions of Municipal Code Chapters 
3.60.020 and 3.60.030. 
25. Sealed bid: A formal offer to furnish supplies, equipment, or services in conformity with 
the specifications, delivery terms, and conditions required at a guaranteed maximum 
cost. 
26. Specifications: A detailed written description of the requirements for a proposed 
purchase. 
27. Supplies: Manufactured goods kept in the ordinary course of business. 
28. Turnkey proposal: A proposal made by a builder or supplier to provide, at an all- 
inclusive price, a facility or product which is in all respects ready for intended service. 
Such proposals typically provide for design, construction, delivery, permits, utilities, 
essential furnishings, accessories and the “key to the front door.” 
29. Written quote: A written offer to supply goods or services at a specified price and on 
defined terms. 
Responsibility

--- page 6 ---
402 – Purchasing Policy 
 
12/3/2018 
6 of 13 
1. The City Manager, or officer authorized by the City Manager, shall be responsible to 
execute such purchases in the manner established by this procedure. 
2. The Fiscal Director/City Treasurer shall on a quarterly basis compile and report to City 
Council the information compiled for the previous quarter per the requirements in 
Municipal Code Chapter 3.60.090.  The Purchase Order Approval Report template 
contains all of the information required for this quarterly report. 
3. Department Heads are responsible for delegating to the appropriate individual the 
responsibility for: 
A. Maintaining, managing, monitoring and filing their department level awards 
purchase orders and contracts, including all insurance and bonds.  
B. Publishing bid notices at least once in the City’s official adjudicated newspaper a 
minimum of five days prior to the date and time set for opening bids. 
4. The Purchasing Coordinator shall: 
A. Review requisitions for compliance to the policies and procedures contained 
herein.  
B. Process requisitions into purchase orders, and release to vendors and provide a 
copy to departments.

--- page 7 ---
402 – Purchasing Policy 
 
12/3/2018 
7 of 13 
Procedures 
The following procedures do not preclude departments from having more limiting procedures. 
 
 
Type of Purchase or Contract 
 
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
 
Standard 
Construction 
Professional 
Services or 
Consultant 
Fixed/Assets 
Commodities 
(Not required if 
using the piggyback 
process) 
Use Of Other 
Public Agency Bids 
(Piggy Backing) 
Compatible / Brand 
Name Products* 
1 
Specifications 
or 
Description of 
Needs 
Required  for all 
award 
authorization 
levels 
 Up to $50K – 
Optional 
 $50K + ‐ RFP 
Required 
 
 Up to $50K – 
Recommended 
 $50K + 
Required 
Not required if use 
of  State contract 
is less  than 12 
mos. old, or other 
City / Agency 
contract is less 
than 6 mos. old 
$10K + 
Required to 
have written 
justification on 
file  
2  Bids/Quotes 
 $10K to $20K 
Verbal quotes 
 $20K to $100K 
Written 
quotes 
 $100K + 
Sealed Bids 
 Not required  to 
accept lowest 
price  
 No sealed bids 
required 
 
 $10K to $20K 
Verbal quotes 
 $20K to $100K 
Written quotes 
 $100K + Sealed 
Bids 
Same as 1D above  
 $10K to $20K 
Verbal quotes 
 $20K to $100K 
Written quotes 
 $100K + Sealed 
Bids 
3  Public Legal 
Notice 
 Up to $100K ‐ 
Optional 
 $100K + ‐ 
Required 
 Up to $100K ‐ 
Optional 
 $100K + ‐ 
Required 
  
 Up to $100K ‐ 
Optional 
 $100K + ‐ 
Required 
 
 Up to $100K ‐ 
Optional 
 
$100K + ‐ 
Required 
 Up to $100K ‐ 
Optional 
 $100K + ‐ 
Required 
4  Public 
Solicitation 
Highly 
Recommended 
Highly 
Recommended 
Highly 
Recommended 
Not Required 
Highly 
Recommended 
5 
Quarterly 
Report  For 
City Council 
Required ‐ $25K + 
Submitted with 
purchase order 
 
Required ‐ $25K + 
Submitted with 
purchase order 
 
Required ‐ $25K + 
Submitted with 
purchase order 
 
Required ‐ $25K + 
Submitted with 
purchase order 
 
Required ‐ $25K + 
Submitted with 
purchase order 
 
*Permitted where the City has already set a standard.  Department must indicate basis of criteria and demonstrate comparison. 
1. Technical Requirements

--- page 8 ---
402 – Purchasing Policy 
 
12/3/2018 
8 of 13 
A. When applicable, a clear and accurate description of the technical requirements for 
the material, product, or service should be incorporated into the bid/RFP/RFQ 
documentation.  This description should not contain features that unduly restrict 
competition and should instead set forth the minimum essential characteristics and 
standards to which it must conform if it is to satisfy its intended use. 
B. All requirements that potential respondents must fulfill, as well as the factors 
considered in the evaluation process, should be identified. 
2. Bid Procedures (required for purchases over $100,000) 
A. Pre-qualification of Bidders 
This process may be used to determine which potential bidders are deemed capable 
of fulfilling the requirements of a particular purchase. The pre-qualification process 
shall require at a minimum that prospective bidders answer questions that are 
contained in a pre-qualification questionnaire.  Please refer to Municipal Code 
chapter 3.60.060 PRE-QUALIFICATION OF BIDDERS for the specific requirements 
of the pre-qualification process. 
B. Bid Notice Requirements 
1. 
Notice Preparation 
a. The notice inviting bids or proposals will describe the project to be 
done or the purchase to be made. It will set a date, time and opening 
of bids or proposals. It will state that the City reserves the right to 
extend the time for the receipt of bids or proposals by up to 30 days if 
only one bid/proposal is received by the bid deadline. The notice 
prepared by the initiating department will be published by the 
Department in the City’s official adjudicated newspaper of general 
circulation. The approved notice may be distributed also to potential 
bidders and trade papers. 
b. The length and content of the notice will vary in other respects 
according to the type or project to be done. 
2. 
Notice Requirements 
a. Faithful Performance Bid Bond (refundable), in the form of cash, 
cashier’s check or certified check, equal to 10% of the aggregate 
amount of the bid will be required when the expected pricing for the 
project is $100,000 or greater, except as follows: 
i. 
The bid bond requirement was waived by the City Manager 
prior to bid solicitation. 
ii. The bid relates to materials and supplies procurement.

--- page 9 ---
402 – Purchasing Policy 
 
12/3/2018 
9 of 13 
b. Insurances, indemnity and regulatory requirements  
c. The initiating department will forward to the City Clerk at least 14 days 
prior to the date and time set for opening the bids, a copy of the 
approved “Notice Inviting Sealed Proposals”. 
d. The initiating department may release the approved notice to reach 
other interested parties by mail or electronic means and do further 
advertisement etc., to coincide with the official publication. 
C. Bid Openings 
All formal bid openings on purchases of $100,000 or greater will be conducted by 
the City Manager or his/her representative. This policy hereby delegates the 
authority for formal bid openings to each department head or his/her 
management representative. 
1. 
All formal bid openings will be set at a time and location specified in the 
notice. 
2. 
The representative authorized to conduct the formal bid opening will be 
responsible to: 
a. Ensure that all pre-bid requirements as prescribed in this procedure 
have been met. 
b. Ensure that all bids have been stamped by the City Clerk as received 
by the date and time specified in the “Notice Inviting Sealed 
Proposals”. However, bids received prior to the opening of the first bid 
will be considered timely. 
c. Ensure that bid opening occurs at the time and location specified in 
the notice. 
d. Will publicly open and declare the content of bids received. 
e. Will immediately forward a completed copy of the bid that is 
recommended for acceptance to the City Attorney for review. 
f. 
Will make bid results available to all interested parties as soon as 
possible following the reading. 
g. Bids received after the specified time and opening will be returned to 
the bidder unopened. 
D.   Single Bid Items 
In the event only one bid is obtained, the initiating department will consult with the City’s Fiscal 
Director/City Treasurer and may exercise the option to extend the bid period by up to 30 days

--- page 10 ---
402 – Purchasing Policy 
 
12/3/2018 
10 of 13 
without opening the sealed bid submitted, to allow for additional bids. If the determination is 
made to open the sole original bid, or if no additional bids are received during the bid extension, 
the Council may choose another procedure, re-advertise, order the work done by City 
employees, award the contract to the sole bidder based on a cost analysis evidencing the 
relationship of the one bid to expected market price, or negotiate a contract to the best 
advantage of the City.  
A. The initiating department will submit an administrative report to the City Manager for 
presentation to the Council. The report will give the results of the bidding and will 
recommend appropriate action to be taken by the Council. 
B. The Council as the awarding authority will determine the outcome of the bids and will 
declare the results as a public session. 
5. Requisition Procedures to Generate a Purchase Order (required for purchases $10,000-
$100,000) 
All steps for using the accounting software and forms are available through the Finance 
Department’s intranet site. 
A. Stores Requisitions may be used to obtain supplies (office, janitorial, electrical, 
safety, etc.) maintained in inventory at the Central Warehouse. 
B. All purchase orders begin as an electronic requisition in the accounting software 
system and move from entry at the department level to approval through Finance 
and up to the City Manager, as appropriate, and require the following steps and/or 
documentation: 
1. 
 Greater than $10,000 and less than $20,000 
a. Two or more verbal quotes, which must be documented in the 
accompanying Purchase Order Approval Report.  If at least two 
quotes are not received, the explanation for that should be included in 
that report.  EXCEPTION:  Purchases with Federal Grant funds 
require “price or rate quotations be obtained from an adequate 
number of vendors” for purchases over $3,000. 
2. 
Greater than $20,000 and less than $100,000 
a. Two or more written quotes, which should be included as attachments 
to the Purchase Order Approval Report and to the requisition entry in 
Eden.  If two quotes are not received, the explanation for that should 
be included in that report. 
i. 
For professional services contracts above $50,000, an RFP 
should be issued.

--- page 11 ---
402 – Purchasing Policy 
 
12/3/2018 
11 of 13 
ii. For fixed assets/commodities purchases over $50,000, the 
specifications/description of needs should also be submitted 
with the Purchase Order Approval Report. 
6. Purchase Orders and Payment Process 
Purchase orders, available from the Finance Department’s Purchasing Division, will be 
used to procure goods and/or services. 
A. The purchase order should be issued to the vendor prior to commencement of the 
work to be performed, service provided, or goods purchased. 
B. The initiating department will be responsible for ensuring that established 
procurement procedures, authorizations, and budgetary provisions are complied with 
before making a purchase. 
C.  For goods over $10,000, the initiating department shall affix the fixed asset decal to 
the item received.  The Fixed Asset Inventory Information form will be completed and 
returned to Finance, and Finance will issue the decals to the requesting department. 
D. The department making the purchase is responsible for confirmation that goods 
and/or services are received as expected, and this should be done prior to 
processing an invoice for payment in the financial system.  The packing slip should 
be attached to the invoice, and if not available, the invoice should be signed and 
dated by the person confirming receipt.  Deposits or pre-payments of any kind must 
be approved by the Finance Director, unless they are progress payments made on a 
procurement where the progress can be confirmed by the purchasing department. 
7. Emergency Purchasing  
A. Should an emergency arise which necessitates an instant purchase, the department 
involved should: 
1. 
Call the Purchasing Division 
2. 
Describe the nature of the emergency 
3. 
Give particulars of the item(s) needed, the expected cost, the selected 
vendor, and competitive pricing, if available. 
B. The Purchasing Division will assign a purchase order number. 
C. The initiating department may then place the order verbally with the vendor pledging 
follow-up with the purchase order which will bear the previously assigned number. 
D. The initiating department will then continue with the completion of the purchase order 
in the prescribed manner except that the previously assigned number will be 
included and the purchase order will be marked “CONFIRMING ORDER ALREADY 
PLACED (Do Not Duplicate)”.

--- page 12 ---
402 – Purchasing Policy 
 
12/3/2018 
12 of 13 
8. Blanket Purchase Order 
A. The City may, when pricing and terms are favorable, and as a convenience for users, 
establish an account with a vendor by means of a blanket purchase order. 
B. The department will, when satisfied regarding the need, pricing, and terms, issue a 
blanket purchase order. The blanket purchase order will be “open” in that only the 
general nature of the purchases will be specified. The annual value limit will be 
defined (e.g. Not to Exceed $10,000). 
C. No charge account is to be entered when a blanket purchase order is set up, as the 
charge accounts will be entered at the time of processing invoices.  Blanket 
purchase orders are NOT encumbered and are only open for one fiscal year at a 
time.  Threshold limits follow the same limits as regular purchase orders and require 
the same documentation. 
9. Change Orders 
A. A change order may be required whenever there is a change in the requirements of a 
particular project, either for construction, a supply contract, or professional services. 
B. Signature authority thresholds for change order factor in the amount of the original 
purchase and the amount of the change order.  For example, if the original purchase 
was $40,000, the department head was the approver.  If there is a $15,000 change 
order, the original purchase plus the change order totals $55,000 and now requires 
City Manager approval.  Original purchases plus change orders that total above 
$100,000 require Council approval. 
Required Documentation 
1. 
For purchases over $10,000 (or for purchases over $3,000 utilizing Federal 
Grant funds), records detailing the history of the procurement should be 
maintained pursuant to the City’s records retention policy.  These 
procurement records should include the rationale for the method of 
procurement, selection of the contract type, contractor selection or rejection, 
and the basis for the contract price.  All of this information is included in the 
Purchase Order Approval Report. 
Policy History 
1. This policy was originally issued on October 2, 2000 as Policy IV.G.1 as the Purchasing 
Policy and Procedure. 
2. It was authorized on March 31, 2004. 
3. It was later revised on June 1, 2012.

--- page 13 ---
402 – Purchasing Policy 
 
12/3/2018 
13 of 13 
4. It was reformatted, renumbered as Policy 402, rewritten to remove language related to 
contract policy and procedures, and approved on January 6, 2017. 
5. It was amended in August 2018 to account for changes to the Federal Code of 
Regulations related to purchases made with Federal Grant funds. 
Related Policies 
1. Policy 202 – Contract Policy 
2. Policy 409 – Petty Cash Funds Policy 
Contact for this Policy  
Purchasing Coordinator 
Approval 
This policy was issued on November 5, 2018 and approved by: 
 
LARRY A. PATTERSON 
CITY MANAGER