--- page 1 ---
HOMES
OBITUARIES
LEGAL NOTICES
EPAPER
https://www.daytondailynews.com/tncms/asset/editorial/abca36c4-fe86-457c-9b4a-ded8240a1012
FEATURED
Flock cameras: How they work and why some are concerned
Sydney Dawes and Cornelius Frolik - Staff Writers
May 26, 2026
Cornelius Frolik / Staff
A Flock license plate reader on Xenia Avenue in East Dayton. Cornelius Frolik / Staff
Showing

--- page 2 ---
Most motorists probably do not even notice them, but automated license plate readers are
everywhere, constantly recording the plates and other visual information of passing cars in
communities all across southwest Ohio.
Officers with local police departments routinely search the data the devices collect for
investigative leads and other purposes. Police also share their databases with outside
agencies.
A recent Dayton Daily News investigation found that local jurisdictions allow outside law
enforcement agencies to scan their ALPR databases thousands of times every day for
purposes that are not always clear, since officers can provide broad, vague and
unconfirmed reasons for their searches.
The city of Dayton suspended use of its Flock cameras — a type of ALPR that generates
data that can be accessed by departments all over the country — after realizing its data
was being scanned for immigration reasons in violation of city policy. The Dayton Daily
News investigation found other area police departments also allow their data to be
accessed for immigration purposes.
How police use and share ALPR data is a hot-button issue. Privacy advocacy groups say
ALPRs are a powerful mass surveillance tool that has a grave potential for misuse, since
the information they collect can be accessed with little to no accountability. Police officials
claim they provide valuable evidence in cases that otherwise would go unsolved. This
story explains how the technology works so community members can draw their own
conclusions.
What are ALPRs?
ALPR cameras usually are mounted to poles or traffic signals and capture images of
passing vehicles’ license plate numbers and other information. Police agencies also use
dashboard-mounted ALPRs in police cruisers.
Flock is a leading maker of ALPR technology, but there are other manufacturers, like Axon.
Not all ALPR systems allow captured data to be stored and shared with other departments
to the same extent.
DAYTON DAILY NEWS INVESTIGATES
Automated license plate readers

--- page 3 ---
The city of Dayton recently suspended its use of fixed-point automatic license plate readers after
disclosing camera data was being accessed by outside agencies for immigration-related searches.
We obtained data from other area police departments to reveal how ALPR data is shared, and for what
reasons.
» Area police license plate reader data routinely accessed for immigration
investigations, records show
» Privacy advocates: Legislation, guardrails needed for police license plate readers
» How Kettering, other area police departments share license plate reader data
Flock cameras capture the make, model and color of passing vehicles, as well as other
visual details, like damage or alterations, such as broken taillights and aftermarket rims or
wheels. Cameras can grab images of vehicles traveling as fast as 100 mph, day and night,
up to 75 feet away.
ALPR cameras typically send real-time alerts when license plate numbers match a reported
stolen vehicle or a car being sought by law enforcement. But the technology can do a lot
more than that.

--- page 4 ---
Organizational audit records for Flock systems for police in Kettering, Miami Twp. and Tipp
City obtained by this news outlet show officers have performed ALPR database searches
and look-ups for wanted persons, welfare checks, drug investigations, criminal motor
vehicle offenses, hit-and-runs and crashes, intoxicated driving violations, thefts,
protection order cases, traffic infractions, financial crimes and many other purposes.
Police officials says ALPRs are a vital tool that greatly improves public safety by alerting
officers in real time to vehicles associated with criminal activity. Officials say plate readers
have helped police identify, track and locate getaway vehicles. Unlike traditional video
cameras, Flock cameras do not require police to go through hours of security video to find
what they are looking for.
“As with any investigative tool, Flock searches are used to assist officers and detectives in
locating vehicles, identifying movement patterns, corroborating investigative information
and generating leads during criminal investigations,” said Miamisburg police Chief Mike
Brem.
“The system is one tool among many and is most effective when combined with traditional
investigative work, officer observations, witness statements and other evidence.”
Flock camera technology has helped police in Tipp City make more than 100 arrests for
serious criminal offenses, and the devices have assisted officers who were investigating
stolen vehicles, theft offenses, wanted suspects and missing persons, said Tipp City
Manager Eric Mack.
But while these cameras are supposed to capture the “fingerprint” of vehicles, they also
may collect a much wider range of information, said Phu Phung, a professor at the
University of Dayton.
According to Phung, systems like ALPR networks typically use artificial intelligence or other
advanced software to pull data from images: The color, make and model of the vehicles
detected, as well as other data linked to time and location.

--- page 5 ---
But Phung said there’s no telling what other details are captured within an image recorded
by the cameras: People inside a vehicle, the surrounding street or other information that is
framed in each snapshot of time. Privacy advocacy groups say cameras record details like
bumper stickers and defects — cracks in windshields or other identifiable damage — that
could be analyzed and stored.
“There is no technical way to verify that that is what they capture,” Phung said. “As a
researcher, I’m a little bit skeptical about that.”
ALPRs can be used for legitimate law enforcement purposes, but police likely are tempted
to use the technology and data they collect for all kinds of reasons, said Gary Daniels,
legislative director for the ACLU of Ohio.
University of Dayton Professor Phu Phung talks about his cybersecurity research and issues organizations should
consider when implementing data-sharing technology. SYDNEY DAWES / STAFF

--- page 6 ---
“This comes down to the fundamental question of, How much do you trust your
government?” Daniels said.
Daniels said police departments’ use of ALPRs are largely unregulated in Ohio. He said few
places have strong policies about under what circumstances the data can be searched and
shared. He said too often law enforcement has carte blanche access to massive amounts of
data with no oversight.
Phung said each Flock camera operates like a small computer among a broader system of
computers that are connected via the cloud. These small computers use motion detection
to operate and cloud-based storage to preserve data, and they are often powered by solar
panels.
Data collected through the ALPR camera system’s pre-processing stages is then uploaded
to a cloud-based server. This data is encrypted to limit its access, but policies around who
can access it and when are up to the customers and technology providers. The same goes
for how long the data is stored. Phung said some cities opt for a 30-day erasure system
while others hold on to data not needed for criminal investigations much longer.
The Dayton Police Department and Dayton city manager’s office announced this month a
halt to the city’s fixed-site automated license plate reader program. The pause was
ordered after a review of the cameras revealed that a network-sharing feature had been
enabled, allowing data to be accessed more broadly than what was authorized.
This announcement was met with outrage from multiple citizens, who called the policy
violation a betrayal of public trust. City leaders, too, have called for the removal of the
fixed-site cameras altogether or the review of all city data-sharing policies.
Phung’s research proposes a dynamic, context-aware approach to data access.
“I think the biggest challenge is that every city, if they want to deploy this system, they
need to outsource this to a company, and probably a private company,” Phung said.
“We need to have some kind of a more formal way, technical way, to verify that the system
followed, is there.”

--- page 7 ---
Sydney Dawes
Cornelius Frolik
In Dayton’s announcement about the Flock incident, the Dayton Police Department also
said a major within its force no longer works for the agency, promising to conduct an
internal investigation into the matter.
Phung said audits of data-sharing systems do not prevent any breach to an organization’s
cybersecurity. Rather, they flag agencies to issues after the fact — “already too late,” Phung
said.
“I would like to say that if a human flaw causes the system flaw, that is a design flaw,”
Phung said.
Many local police agencies have denied or not responded to the Dayton Daily News’ public
record requests seeking network and internal Flock ALPR audits. Without this information,
it is impossible to know the extent of data-sharing with outside agencies and the reasons
police are giving to search the databases.
Agencies that denied this news outlet’s records requests or failed to respond or provide
the records include the city of Dayton; Huber Heights; Middletown; the Montgomery County
Sheriff’s Office; the Clark County Sheriff’s Office; the Miami County Sheriff’s Office; and the
Butler County Sheriff’s Office. Springboro and Miamisburg provided limited records.
Centerville police said they do not have the requested records.
Explaining license plate reader history, access issues.