source: packet.pdf
sha256: 7a85456e540e42b55fcde2a7839db2b9b0589903a5e31e9d26e4c9e19fbc67d1
pages: 368
ocr_pages: 53
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
February 2, 2026
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Adam Loraine
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
Robert Newsom Jr.
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: February 2, 2026
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 876 9873 6532      Passcode: 345545
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CEREMONIAL
1.
Black History Month & NAACP San Mateo Branch Centennial Commemoration — Proclamations
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
2.
City Council Meeting Minutes — Approval
Approve the minutes of the special and regular meeting of the City Council held on January 12, 2026.
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
3.
Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance - Zoning Code Amendments — Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.19, “Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior
Accessory Dwelling Unit – Residential Zones” to address comments from the California Department of Housing
and Community Development (HCD) to align with current state law, and to address Housing Element programs,
and find it exempt from CEQA pursuant to Section 21080.17 of the Public Resources Code and Section 15282(h)
of the CEQA Guidelines.
1 of 368

--- page 2 ---
CEQA: The proposed ordinance is statutorily exempt from the requirements of the California Environmental
Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to Section 21080.17 of the Public Resources Code and Section 15282(h) of the CEQA
Guidelines because it is an accessory dwelling unit ordinance that is implementing the provisions of the
Government Code related to ADUs and JADUs.
4.
Salary Schedule Revision for the Senior Transportation Planner — Approval
Adopt a Resolution to approve the revision to the Salary Schedule for the Senior Transportation Planner
classification.
CEQA: ​This revision to the salary schedule for the Senior Transportation Planner is not a project subject to CEQA,
because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which
may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)​ 
5.
​Senior Transportation “Get Around” Program — Amendment
Approve an amendment to the agreement with Serra Yellow Cab of Daly City, Inc. for the Senior Transportation
“Get Around” program to authorize an additional $200,000 for FY 2025–26, for a total amount not to exceed
$950,000, and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the amendment in substantially the
form presented.
CEQA: This project is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a
physical change in the environment (Public Resources Code Section 21065.))
6.
Audio Solutions Special Events Support — Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternate purchasing procedure; approve an agreement in an amount not to
exceed $64,750.00 with Thor Audio Solutions for sound, stage, dance floor and support services at city-wide
special events from July 22, 2024-December 31, 2025, and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement
substantially in the form presented.
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve
any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
NEW BUSINESS
7.
Humboldt Bike Lanes Alternative — Update
Receive a presentation from staff on efforts to explore potential alternatives to a portion of the Humboldt Street
bike lanes and receive direction/recommendation from City Council.
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
REPORTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND COMMITTEE UPDATES
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
2 of 368

--- page 3 ---
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form. Organized Group and Presentations: Up to five (5) minutes for a group presentation,
with as many speakers as can be accommodated within that time allowance. To qualify for a group presentation, all individuals associated with the
presentation must be clearly identified and confirmed as in attendance at the meeting. Presentation materials must be submitted to
clerk@cityofsanmateo.org one (1) business day in advance of the meeting.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and to ensure meaningful access for all participants, including those with
limited English proficiency, individuals requiring special accommodations or language assistance to participate in this meeting may contact the City
Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable
arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
3 of 368

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 26-10863
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
February 02, 2026 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes — Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the special and regular meeting of the City Council held on January 12, 2026.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact associated with this administrative item.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes 2026-1-12 Special
Att 2 - Minutes 2026-1-12 Regular
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
4 of 368

--- page 5 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 1/12/2026
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Adam Loraine, Mayor
Nicole Fernandez, Deputy Mayor
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
Rob Newsom Jr.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
January 12, 2026
6:00 PM
Special Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER at 6:00 p.m.
Roll Call
Present: Mayor Loraine, Deputy Mayor Fernandez, Council Members: Cwirko-Godycki and Diaz Nash, Newsom
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency 
Circumstances – there were no requests. 
STUDY SESSION
1.
Potential Ballot Measures for November 2026 — Survey Results and Council Direction
Zachary Reda, Senior Management Analyst and Timothy McLarney from True North Research gave the 
presentation.
Public Comment: Michael Ragan expressed concern regarding spending on consulting and commented on 
potential “tax fatigue” amongst voters. Dana Sahae expressed opposition to another tax. Another member of 
the public attempted to provide comment but experienced technical difficulties through Zoom.
City Council asked the consultant and City staff questions -regarding the City’s current budget deficit, the 
potential revenue that could be generated, and the sales tax cap, including the potential missed opportunity if 
the City does not utilize the maximum amount available under the cap.
Following the presentation, the City Council directed staff to proceed with education and outreach related to a 
potential quarter-cent sales tax measure and return to the Council in July with a recommendation on whether to 
place a measure on the November 2026 ballot. 
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned at 7:09 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Adam Loraine, Mayor                      
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
5 of 368

--- page 6 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 1/12/2026
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Adam Loraine, Mayor
Nicole Fernandez, Deputy Mayor
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
Rob Newsom Jr.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
January 12, 2026
7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER at 7:18 p.m.
Roll Call
Present: Mayor Loraine, Deputy Mayor Fernandez, Council Members: Cwirko-Godycki and Diaz Nash, Newsom
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency 
Circumstances – there were no requests. 
CEREMONIAL
1.
HIP Housing Calendar Award Winners — Recognition - Brian Perkins, HIP Housing Board Member introduced the 
winner of HIP Housing’s annual calendar art contest to be recognized by the City Council.
CONSENT CALENDAR
The following items, 2 through 12, were considered to be routine by the City Council. After the titles of the items were 
read by the City Clerk, the public was invited to comment and there were no speakers. 
Moved:
Fernandez, Seconded: Cwirko-Godycki
Ayes: 
Newsom, Loraine, Fernandez, Cwirko-Godycki, and Diaz Nash
Noes: 
None
2.
City Council 2026 Regular Meeting Calendar – Amendment
Adopt an amendment to the City Council Regular Meeting schedule for the calendar year 2026 to move the first 
meeting in October to Monday, October 5, 2026.
3.
Fiscal Year 2025-26 Wastewater Treatment Plant Property Insurance — Purchase Authorization
Authorize the City Attorney to purchase property insurance for the Wastewater Treatment Plant for the remainder 
of fiscal year 2025-26, in an amount not to exceed $237,394.02.
4.
Ballot Measure Communications Consulting Services for the November 2026 General Election — Agreement
Approve an agreement with TeamCivX for ballot measure communications consulting services in the amount of 
$174,000 and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
5.
San Mateo City Employees’ Association Side Letter of Agreement Regarding Retirement Health Savings Account – 
Approval
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding (”MOU”) with the San Mateo City Employees’ 
Association (”SMCEA”) to modify the terms of Section 24.11 Retirement Health Savings Account.
   Enactment: Resolution No. 1 (2026)
6 of 368

--- page 7 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 1/12/2026
Page 2
6.
San Mateo Management Employees’ Association Side Letter of Agreement Regarding the Retirement Health 
Savings Account – Approval
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding (”MOU”) with the San Mateo Management 
Employees’ Association (”SMMEA”) to modify the terms of Section 26.5- Retirement Health Savings Account.
   Enactment: Resolution No. 2 (2026)
7.
Updates to Principal and Senior Transportation Planner Job Specs and Senior Planner Salary Schedule — Approval
Adopt a Resolution to approve the updated Senior Transportation Planner “Senior” and Principal Transportation 
Planner “Principal” job specification series and the salary range for the new classification of Senior Transportation 
Planner.
   Enactment: Resolution No. 3 (2026)
8.
Sewer Flush Truck Replacement and Stormwater Combination Truck Procurement — Agreements
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and approve purchase contracts with U-Rock 
Utility Equipment LLC, for the purchase of one (1) new Sewer Equipment Co. of America Model 800-HPR ECO 
Series IV Flush Truck in an amount not to exceed $379,037.46 and one (1) new Sewer Equipment Co. of America 
(SECA) SECA 900 ECO 6 YD Combination Truck in an amount not to exceed $640,075.14; establish a contingency 
reserve in the amount of $25,000.00; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreements in 
substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
   Enactment: Resolution No. 4 (2026)
9.
Local Roadway Safety Plan — Grant Acceptance, Appropriation, Budget Transfer, and Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to accept a Transportation Improvement Program Grant Award in the amount of $959,000, 
authorize an appropriation of $295,400 of the grant funding, and approve a budget transfer of $38,273 of the 
City’s Measure S funds from the Quick Build Mobility Program project account to the Local Roadway Safety Plan – 
Priority Package 1 project account in the Capital Project Fund; approve an agreement with CSW/ST2 for design 
engineering services in the amount of $247,574 for the Local Roadway Safety Plan - Priority Package 1 project; 
establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $50,000 for the agreement; and authorize the Public Works 
Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue amendments within the approved 
contingency amount.
   Enactment: Resolution No. 5 (2026)
10.
Citywide Facilities Condition Assessment Project — Budget Appropriation
Adopt a Resolution to authorize a supplemental budget appropriation in the amount of $25,000 from the 
unassigned General Fund balance in the Capital Project Fund to the Citywide Facilities Condition Assessment 
Project in order to address additional work.
   Enactment: Resolution No. 6 (2026)
11.
Clean Water Program Labor Compliance Consultant – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the agreement with TSG Enterprises, Inc. DBA The Solis Group for on-call labor 
compliance services for the Clean Water Program in an amount not to exceed $50,000, for a total amount of 
$450,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form 
presented.
7 of 368

--- page 8 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 1/12/2026
Page 3
12.
Polymer Injection System Project Design and Engineering Services During Construction — Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to authorize an appropriation in the amount of $1,200,000 from the Sewer Fund reserves to 
the Wastewater Treatment Plant Polymer Injection Project in the Capital Projects Fund; approve an alternative 
purchasing procedure to enter into an agreement with Kennedy/Jenks Consultants, Inc. to provide professional 
services for design and engineering services during construction in an amount not to exceed $311,055; establish a 
contingency amount of $60,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute this agreement and task 
amendments within the contingency amount in substantially the form presented.
            Enactment: Resolution No. 7 (2026)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Tasso Zografos, speaking on behalf of Humboldt Street residents, expressed opposition to the existing bike lanes, stating 
that residents on Humboldt Street, Idaho Street, and Fremont Street do not support the current configuration and feel 
the issue has been shifted between neighborhoods without consensus. He also questioned the validity of survey results 
cited by the City, asserting that the data overstated support due to methodological flaws. Mei Li spoke regarding 
concerns relating to radio frequencies and potential health related impacts. Claire Stevens commented that the 
Humboldt Street bike lanes have reduced neighborhood parking, making daily activities more difficult for residents and 
contributing to isolation, and she requested that residential parking be restored. Another member of the public 
attempted to provide public comment virtually but was unable to due to technical difficulties. 
PUBLIC HEARING
13.
2033 La Salle Drive - Zoning Reclassification, Zoning Code Amendment, and Planning Application for an Early 
Childhood Education Center – Ordinance Introduction
Simin Zakavand, Associate Planner provided a project presentation to the Council, which was accompanied by 
an applicant presentation. 
Public Comment: Tim Wang, Marc Acton, Sophia Tseng, Sarah Meier-Heredia, Erin Haugen, Jason Cruz, and 
David Siegmund spoke in support of the project. 
City Council asked questions to staff and the applicant.  After Council discussion, a motion was made to 
introduce an ordinance for a zoning reclassification that would permit the Carey School to construct a new Early 
Childhood Education Center with capacity for up to 75 students at 2033 La Salle Drive. The project includes a 
zoning code amendment to add an Overlay District and updated development standards for an educational 
facility.  Additionally, the City Council adopted a resolution to approve the Special Use Permit (SUP), a Site Plan 
and Architectural Review (SPAR), and a Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) to establish and construct 
the new education facility.
              Moved: Fernandez, Seconded: Diaz Nash
              Ayes:     Newsom, Loraine, Fernandez, Cwirko-Godycki, and Diaz Nash
              Noes:    None
             Motion passed 5-0.
NEW BUSINESS
14.
Solid Waste 2026 Rate Setting and Proposition 218 Notification — Approval
Jack Johnson, Waste Management Supervisor provided a presentation outlining proposed residential and 
commercial solid waste rates increases for 2026.
8 of 368

--- page 9 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 1/12/2026
Page 4
Public Comment: Edgar Ryan Silva commented that while he understood the City’s obligations under Proposition 
218, the proposed solid waste, recycling, and compost rate increases would place additional financial strain on 
households, particularly renters and working families, and he requested clearer justification for the increases, 
consideration of rate relief options, and assurance that higher costs would result in improved services and 
environmental outcomes.
The Council asked staff questions regarding financial assistance options, subsidized rates, and the haulers and 
franchise agreements of other local cities.
The Council authorized staff to mail Proposition 218 notifications, which require a 45-day public noticing period, 
to all property owners proposing a not-to-exceed rate increase for solid waste, recycling, and compost 
collection. Following the notice period, a City Council public hearing will be held to receive any protests. A 
resolution to adopt new rates will be considered thereafter.
15.
City Council Appointments to External Agencies and Liaison Roles - Approval
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk provided a presentation for the City Council to review and consider the proposed 
2026 list of City Council appointments to external agencies, organizations, and liaison roles.
Public Comment: there were no speakers.
Council Members asked questions regarding the appointment process and continuity. Mayor Loraine and 
Council Member Cwirko-Godycki will meet as a subcommittee to review potential future adjustments to the 
process. Additionally, the "Reports and Announcements" section of City Council regular meetings will be 
renamed to include liaison assignment reports from Council Members.
              Moved: Fernandez, Seconded: Newsom
              Ayes:     Newsom, Loraine, Fernandez, and Diaz Nash
              Noes:    None
              Abstain: Cwirko-Godycki
             Motion passed 4-0 with 1 abstained.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members reported on their various assignments and liaison roles and noted 
past and future events, along with updates. Council Member Cwirko-Godycki expressed her appreciation for Public 
Works staff in response to recent storms. She also recognized National Law Enforcement Appreciation Day.
CLOSED SESSION
Before entering Closed Session, the public was have an opportunity to comment before the Council’s consideration of 
these items. There were no requests to speak on either item. The Council convened to closed session at 10:10 p.m. 
16.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Section 54956.9) Name of case: City of San Mateo v. Rebecca Mary Wilson, 
aka Rebecca Wilson Swann, San Mateo Superior Court Case No.: 24-CIV-07667
17.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Anticipated Litigation
Initiation of litigation pursuant to paragraph (4) of subdivision (d) of Section 54956.9: one case.
Following the closed session, at 10:42 p.m. the City Attorney reported that the City Council unanimously voted to initiate 
litigation in one matter. The name of the action, the defendants and the other particulars shall, once formally 
commenced, be disclosed to any person upon inquiry
9 of 368

--- page 10 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 1/12/2026
Page 5
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned at 10:42 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Adam Loraine, Mayor                      
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
10 of 368

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 26-10864
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
February 02, 2026 
SUBJECT:
Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance - Zoning Code Amendments — Ordinance Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.19, “Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory 
Dwelling Unit – Residential Zones” to address comments from the California Department of Housing and Community 
Development (HCD) to align with current state law, and to address Housing Element programs, and find it exempt from 
CEQA pursuant to Section 21080.17 of the Public Resources Code and Section 15282(h) of the CEQA Guidelines. 
BACKGROUND:
On January 26, 2026, the City Council introduced an Ordinance (Attachment 1) to amend San Mateo Municipal Code 
Chapter 27.19, “Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit – Residential Zones” to address comments 
from the California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) to align with current state law, and to 
address Housing Element programs, and find it exempt from CEQA pursuant to Section 21080.17 of the Public Resources 
Code and Section 15282(h) of the CEQA Guidelines. The City Council also amended the Ordinance to allow for discretionary 
review where an ADU was not in full compliance with “any objective standard” including previously identified standards in 
the draft ordinance such as height and setbacks.  The Council also specified that second-story decks may not “face 
adjacent residential properties” instead of a requirement to only face the interior of the subject property.  A draft 
ordinance with tracked changes is included as Attachment 2.  
If adopted, the Ordinance will become effective 30 days after adoption. In addition, the City is required to submit the 
adopted Ordinance to the California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) within 60 days of 
adoption for final review and acceptance by the State. If HCD identifies any inconsistencies between the City’s Ordinance 
and State law, a follow-up code amendment may be required. However, based on prior discussions with HCD and internal 
review, the draft Ordinance appears to be fully consistent with State law.
Upon adoption of the ADU Ordinance, staff will update all ADU-related handouts, educational materials, and website 
content to reflect the revised requirements for the development of accessory dwelling units (ADUs) and junior accessory 
dwelling units (JADUs).
BUDGET IMPACT:
No budget impact is anticipated as a result of this Ordinance adoption. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The proposed ordinance is statutorily exempt from the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
pursuant to Section 21080.17 of the Public Resources Code and Section 15282(h) of the CEQA Guidelines because it is an 
11 of 368

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
accessory dwelling unit ordinance that is implementing the provisions of the Government Code related to ADUs and 
JADUs. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Draft ADU Ordinance
Att 2 – Draft ADU Ordinance Tracked Changes 
STAFF CONTACT
Chantal Eaton, Deputy City Clerk
ceaton@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
12 of 368

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO  
DRAFT ORDINANCE NO. ____ (2026) 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 27.19, “ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT 
AND JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT – RESIDENTIAL ZONES” TO ADDRESS COMMENTS FROM THE 
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT (HCD) TO ALIGN WITH CURRENT 
STATE LAW, AND TO ADDRESS HOUSING ELEMENT PROGRAMS, AND FIND THE ORDINANCE EXEMPT FROM 
CEQA PURSUANT TO SECTION 21080.7 OF THE PUBLIC RESOURCES CODE AND SECTION 15282(H) OF THE CEQA 
GUIDELINES. 
WHEREAS, an existing Ordinance addressing Accessory Dwelling Units and Junior Accessory Dwelling 
Units is codified as Chapter 27.19, as adopted on March 21, 2022; and 
WHEREAS, several amendments to State Accessory Dwelling Unit law have been adopted since adoption 
of Chapter 27.19; and 
WHEREAS, Policy LU 3.1 - Housing Diversity of the Land Use Element of General Plan 2040, promotes 
safe, attractive, and walkable residential neighborhoods with diverse types and sizes of homes for individuals, 
families, and households of all income levels; and 
WHEREAS, under Policy H1.4 - Support Increased Accessory Dwelling Unit Development of the Housing 
Element of General Plan 2040, the City is to amend the Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance to align with current 
State law and to resolve any inconsistencies identified by the California Housing and Community Development 
Department; and 
WHEREAS, on October 18, 2024, the City received a letter from the California Housing and Community 
Development Department outlining provisions in the City of San Mateo Zoning Ordinance that were inconsistent 
with State Accessory Dwelling Unit regulations; and 
WHEREAS, these changes to State Accessory Dwelling Unit law necessitate amendments to Chapter 
27.19; and 
 
WHEREAS, this Ordinance is statutorily exempt from the requirements of the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to Section 21080.17 of the Public Resources Code and Section 15282(h) of the 
CEQA Guidelines because it is an accessory dwelling unit ordinance that is implementing the provisions of the 
Government Code related to Accessory Dwelling Units and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units. 
WHEREAS, on December 9, 2025, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing, received 
all written and oral public comments, and recommended that the City Council approve the proposed Ordinance 
to amend Chapter 27.19. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS: 
 
Section 1. The title of Chapter 27.19 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
 
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS AND JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS 
13 of 368

--- page 14 ---
Section 2. The title that precedes Section 27.19.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, and that reads, “Article I 
Accessory Dwelling Unit” is deleted. 
Section 3. Section 27.19.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
 
27.19.020 Definitions. 
 
The definitions in this Section shall apply only to this Chapter. 
 
(a) “Accessory dwelling unit” (ADU) means an attached or detached residential dwelling unit which 
provides complete independent living facilities for one or more persons, is accessory to the primary residential 
dwelling unit(s), and includes permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking facilities and sanitation 
on the same lot as a Single-Family Dwelling Structure or Multifamily Dwelling Structure is or will be situated. 
(1) “Attached ADU” means an accessory dwelling unit that is attached to a primary residential 
dwelling unit, or portion thereof (including an attached garage or accessory structure). 
(2)“Conversion ADU” means any accessory dwelling unit created by the conversion of any 
existing structure or portion thereof. The Conversion ADU may be created using existing structural 
components of the existing structure, or may be reconstructed to the same extent as the existing 
structure. 
(3)“Detached ADU” means an accessory dwelling unit that is separated from a primary 
residential dwelling unit. 
(4)“New Construction ADU” means any accessory dwelling unit that does not meet the 
definition and requirements of a Conversion ADU. 
(5)“Nonexempt ADU" means an accessory dwelling unit that does not meet the definition of 
a State Exempt ADU. 
(6)“State Exempt ADU” means an accessory dwelling unit that is created pursuant to 
Government Code Section 66323. 
(7)“Multifamily ADU” means an accessory dwelling unit on a lot with an existing or 
proposed Multifamily Dwelling Structure. 
(8)“Single-Family ADU” means an accessory dwelling unit on a lot with an existing or proposed 
Single-Family Dwelling Structure. 
(b) “ADU Living Area” means the interior conditioned space within an Accessory Dwelling Unit, such as 
areas used for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation, and may also include attic or basement areas 
connected to the ADU. ADU Living Area does not include non-habitable spaces such as garages, carports, 
unconditioned utility rooms, enclosed storage areas not internally accessible by the ADU, or other accessory 
structures attached to the ADU. 
14 of 368

--- page 15 ---
(c) “Junior accessory dwelling unit” (JADU) means a unit that is no more than 500 square feet in size and 
contained entirely within an existing or proposed Single-Family Dwelling. 
(d) “Multifamily Dwelling Structure” means a structure with two or more attached primary residential 
dwelling units. 
(e) “Single-Family Dwelling Structure" means a one-family dwelling primary residential unit that either 
stands alone on a lot or is detached from other primary residential dwelling unit(s) on the same lot. 
Section 4. Section 27.19.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
 
27.19.030 Prohibition on Sale and Limitation on Rental. 
 
(a) An ADU shall not be sold separately from the primary residence, except as allowed by Government 
Code Section 66341. 
(b) A JADU shall not be sold separately from the primary residential dwelling unit. 
 
(c) If an ADU or JADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive 
calendar days. 
Section 5. Section 27.19.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
 
27.19.040 Ministerial Permit Approval. 
 
A permit application for an ADU and/or a JADU is required in order to demonstrate that the unit is in 
compliance with the provisions of this Chapter. If the ADU is in full compliance with the provisions of this 
Chapter, a ministerial, non-discretionary permit will be issued. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this 
Code, the issuance of a ministerial ADU or JADU permit may not be appealed. 
Section 6. Section 27.19.045 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
 
27.19.045 Discretionary Review as Alternative to Ministerial Approval. 
 
(a) As an alternative to ministerial review, an applicant may submit an application for discretionary 
review of an ADU proposal that is not in full compliance with any objective standard of this Chapter, including 
but not limited to the height, setback, or daylight plane provisions of this Chapter, and/or for an ADU that 
proposes a second story deck or balcony exceeding the standards outlined in this Chapter. The discretionary 
review application shall not be used to increase the maximum allowable floor area of a lot. The application for 
discretionary approval shall be granted if the Zoning Administrator finds all of the following: 
(1) The proposed ADU is consistent with all applicable objective design standards in the 
adopted R1 Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines. 
(2) The proposed ADU would not result in a negative impact to public health, safety, or welfare. 
15 of 368

--- page 16 ---
(3) If the proposed ADU does not comply with height, setback, or daylight plane standards, there 
are exceptional circumstances applicable to the property that would make compliance with the 
standard(s) an undue hardship, and the deviations from applicable standards are minimized. 
(4) If the proposed ADU includes a second story deck larger than 50 square feet, the deck or 
balcony is located and oriented to minimize direct views into neighboring windows or yard spaces, and 
screening is incorporated where necessary to minimize such views. 
(5) The proposed ADU is consistent with all applicable provisions of the General Plan. 
 
(b) The decision of the Zoning Administrator shall not preclude the ability of an applicant to receive a 
ministerial permit for an ADU that is in full compliance with the provisions of this Chapter. 
(c) The decision of the Zoning Administrator may be appealed to the City Manager or designee, which 
may be a hearing officer. 
Section 2. Section 27.19.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
 
27.19.050 General Requirements. 
 
Applicability. The following shall apply to ADUs and JADUs in all zoning districts that allow for residential 
uses: 
 
(a) The provisions of this Chapter apply only to ADU Living Area. Accessory structures, such as garages, 
carports, non-habitable utility rooms, storage areas, or sheds, whether detached or attached to an ADU, shall be 
subject to the requirements of the underlying zoning district and other applicable provisions of the Zoning Code. 
(b) Development Impact Fees. Development impact fees for ADUs shall be established in an amount set 
forth by resolution of the City Council. No impact fees shall be charged for ADUs 750 square feet in size or 
smaller. Any impact fees charged for an ADU over 750 square feet shall be charged proportionately in relation to 
the square footage of the primary residential dwelling unit. 
(c) Utility Service. For Conversion ADUs, a separate water connection, a sewer service connection, or 
power connection is not required. If an ADU is not converted from existing space, the City may require new or 
separate utility connections. 
(d) Utility Fees. For a Conversion ADU, payment of a connection fee or capacity charge is not required. 
For an ADU that is separate from an existing structure, the City will require payment of a connection fee or 
capacity charge that is proportionate to the ADU's burden. An ADU shall not be considered a new residential use 
for the purposes of calculating connection fees or capacity charges for utilities, including water and sewer 
service, except when the ADU is constructed with a new primary residential dwelling unit. 
(e) Address Assignment. An application for a building permit for an ADU must include application for a 
separate address assignment. 
Section 3. Section 27.19.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
16 of 368

--- page 17 ---
27.19.060 Single-Family ADU Development Standards. 
 
(a) Applicability. This section applies to ADUs located on a lot with an existing or proposed Single-Family 
Dwelling Structure. Number of Units. A lot with an existing or proposed Single-Family Dwelling Structure may 
include any combination of the following three types of ADUs, provided that each meets the applicable 
development standards. 
(1) One Attached or Conversion ADU. 
 
(2) One Detached New Construction ADU. 
 
(3) One JADU, provided it is located within the walls of an existing or proposed Single-Family 
Dwelling Structure. 
(b) Maximum Unit Size and Floor Area Ratio (FAR). FAR and unit size maximums for both Attached and 
Detached ADUs in excess of 800 square feet are governed by the maximum FAR established by the underlying 
zoning district and remaining floor area allowance available on the lot. Up to 800 square feet of ADU living area, 
including New Construction State Exempt ADUs, is exempt from the maximum FAR for each lot with a Single-
Family Dwelling Structure. This exemption does not apply to JADU living area. In addition, the following shall 
apply: 
(1) An ADU shall not be larger, in terms of living area, than the primary residential 
dwelling unit. However, when the primary residential dwelling unit is less than or equal to 800 
square feet in size, a State Exempt ADU of up to 800 square feet is allowed. 
(2) A Conversion ADU within the walls of an existing primary dwelling unit or accessory 
structure is not subject to size requirements. ADU conversions may be expanded up to 150 square feet 
beyond the existing footprint provided the expansion is used to accommodate ingress and egress to 
the ADU. 
(c) Height. The specific height maximums are applicable to all zoning districts which permit ADUs. 
 
(1) Attached Accessory Dwelling Units. Maximum building height for an attached ADU is 24 
feet to top plateline and 32 feet to roof peak as measured from existing grade. 
(2) Detached Accessory Dwelling Units. Maximum building height for a detached ADU is 18 
feet to top plateline and 24 feet to roof peak as measured from existing grade. 
(d) Setbacks. An ADU shall have setbacks as follows: 
 
(1) No setback shall be required for an existing garage or accessory structure that is converted 
to an ADU which is constructed in the same location and to the same dimensions, footprint, and height 
as the existing structure; or for a Detached ADU that is proposed in the rear one-third of a lot that 
otherwise meets all requirements of accessory buildings and structures in required yards of R1 districts 
pursuant to Chapter 27.70. 
17 of 368

--- page 18 ---
(2) A minimum setback of four feet shall be required from the side and rear lot lines for all new 
ADU construction not meeting the criteria set forth in subsection (1) above, including ADUs constructed 
above an existing garage. 
(3) A minimum setback from the front lot line, as required in the lot's underlying zone district, 
shall be required for all New Construction ADUs not meeting the criteria set forth in subsection (1) 
above, including ADUs constructed above an existing garage. No setback is required for a State Exempt 
ADU. 
 
(e) Unit Access. An ADU must include a separate exterior entrance from the primary residential dwelling 
unit. An interior access may be provided between the two units, but is not required. 
(f) ADU and JADU Parking Standards. 
 
(1) General Requirements. No off-street parking shall be required for any ADU or JADU. The 
required parking for the primary residential dwelling unit(s) must comply with the underlying zoning 
district’s current standards, except when an existing garage, carport, covered parking structure, or 
uncovered parking space is converted to an ADU or JADU or demolished in conjunction with 
construction of an ADU. When this occurs, no replacement off-street parking is required for the primary 
residential dwelling unit. 
(2) Voluntary Parking. Off street parking for an ADU or JADU may be provided voluntarily. 
Voluntarily provided parking associated with ADU or JADU development must be located entirely on the 
same lot, and may be provided in a garage, carport, uncovered, or in tandem orientation. Additionally, 
the following provisions may be applied to create voluntary parking for an ADU or JADU. 
(A) When a garage or carport is converted to an ADU or JADU, or demolished in 
conjunction with construction of an ADU, the existing driveway and curb cut are not required to 
be removed, and may be maintained as parking area. 
(B) A maximum of up to two voluntarily provided parking stalls may be provided for 
each ADU or JADU. 
(C) The maximum driveway width for single-car garages may be up to 20 feet to 
accommodate additional off-street parking. 
(D) Uncovered parking for an ADU or JADU may be located in the required front, side, 
and rear yard setback areas. If a covered parking structure is proposed to provide voluntary 
parking below a second-story ADU, the parking structure may be located within the footprint of 
the proposed ADU, provided that it is outside of the front yard setback of the underlying zoning 
district. When a parking structure is proposed within a required side or rear setback of the 
underlying zoning district, the plate height of the parking structure shall not exceed 9 feet in 
height. 
18 of 368

--- page 19 ---
(g) Architectural Standards. Nonexempt ADUs shall be designed to comply with the following standards, 
as applicable: 
 
(1) Be designed to meet the daylight plane requirements of the R-1 zoning district as applied to 
the nearest adjacent side and rear lot lines. 
(2) Provide and maintain obscured glazing on second-story windows up to five feet from the 
finished floor when the windows are located within five feet of a lot line with an abutting residential lot. 
(3) When an exterior staircase is proposed, it shall have a setback of at least five feet from the 
nearest lot line and the size of the second story landing shall be limited to the minimum area required to 
allow ingress and egress as specified by the California Building Code. 
(4) Rooftop decks or terraces above any portion of an ADU are prohibited. 
 
(5) When a second-story deck or balcony is proposed within a two-story ADU, the following shall 
apply: 
 
(A) Second story decks or balconies shall not be larger than 50 square feet in size; and 
 
(B) No portion of a second story deck or balcony shall be located within the setbacks of 
the underlying zoning, regardless of the ADU setbacks; and 
(C) Decks shall not face adjacent residential properties. 
 
Section 9. The title that precedes Section 27.19.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, and that reads, “Article II 
Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit” is deleted. 
Section 10. Section 27.19.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
 
27.19.070 Multifamily ADU Development Standards. 
 
(a) Applicability. This section applies to all ADUs located on lots with existing or proposed Multifamily 
Dwelling Structure(s). 
(b) Number of Units Allowed. 
 
(1) On a lot with a proposed Multifamily Dwelling Structure, up two new Detached ADUs 
may be allowed. 
(2) On a lot with an existing Multifamily Dwelling Structure, the following ADUs may be 
permitted in combination: 
(A) Up to eight New Construction Detached ADUs may be allowed, provided that the 
number of ADUs shall not exceed the number of existing primary residential dwelling units on 
the lot. 
(B) Conversion ADUs created by converting non-living space within an existing 
Multifamily Dwelling Structure. The number of non-living space Conversion ADUs may be 
at least one, and not more than 25 percent of the number of existing primary residential 
19 of 368

--- page 20 ---
dwelling units. 
 
(C) Any additional ADUs as allowed pursuant to State law. 
 
(c) Maximum Unit Size. 
 
(1) An ADU shall not have a larger living area than the smallest primary residential dwelling unit 
on a lot. When the smallest primary residential dwelling unit is less than 800 square feet, then a State 
Exempt ADU of up to 800 square feet is allowed. 
(2) A Conversion ADU within the existing space of a Multifamily Dwelling Structure is not subject 
to size requirements. 
(3) Floor Area Ratio (FAR). Floor area size maximums for both Attached and Detached ADUs are 
governed by the floor area maximum established by the underlying zoning district and remaining floor 
area allowance available on the lot. Up to 800 square feet of ADU Living Area is exempt from total FAR 
for the lot. The exemption for ADU floor area up to 800 square feet shall be applied individually to each 
new Detached ADU proposed on a lot with an existing or proposed Multifamily Dwelling Structure. 
(4) In instances when the existing floor area allowance of a lot has been fully utilized, only New 
Construction State Exempt ADUs of up to 800 square feet are allowed. 
(d) Height - Maximum building height for a new Detached Multifamily ADU is 18 feet to top plateline 
and 24 feet to roof peak as measured from existing grade. 
(e) Setbacks. 
 
(1) For new Detached Multifamily ADUs, a minimum setback of four feet from side and rear 
property lines is required. 
(2) A minimum setback from the front lot line, as required in the lot's underlying zone district, 
shall be required for all new Multifamily ADUs. No front setback is required for a New Construction 
Detached State Exempt ADU. 
(f) Parking. The single-family ADU development parking standards of this Chapter shall apply to 
Multifamily ADUs. 
(g) Architectural standards. The single-family ADU development architectural standards of this Chapter 
shall apply to Nonexempt ADUs on lots with an existing or proposed Multifamily Dwelling Structure. 
(h) Separation between structures. New Detached Multifamily ADUs shall be separated from the 
primary structure by a minimum of four feet, open to the sky. Where multiple new Detached ADUs are 
proposed, the ADUs may be attached to each other, but must be detached from the primary structure. 
20 of 368

--- page 21 ---
Section 4. Section 27.19.080 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
 
27.19.080 JADU Development Standards. 
 
(a) Applicability. The development standards in this section shall apply to all JADUs. 
 
(b) Permitted Zoning Districts. JADUs shall only be constructed on lots zoned to allow single-family 
residential use, or for which a Single-Family Dwelling Structure exists or is proposed to be built. The residential 
lot shall not be part of a condominium, townhouse, or other Multi-Family Dwelling Structure. 
(c) Limit to the Number of JADUs permitted. The number of JADUs is limited to one per residential lot 
with a Single-Family Residential Dwelling Structure. Lots with Multi-Family Dwelling Structures are not eligible 
for JADUs. 
(d) Setback and Other Zoning Regulations. For purposes of setbacks and other zoning regulations, the 
JADU shall be considered to be a part of the principal use of subject site and shall be subject to the same 
requirements of the underlying zoning district. 
(e) Maximum Unit Size. The living area of a JADU shall not exceed 500 square feet, including attic and 
basement areas as defined in Section 27.04.200 for the applicable zoning district. 
(f) Construct within Existing Structure. The JADU shall be constructed within the walls of the proposed or 
legally existing Single-Family Dwelling Structure, including an attached garage. Detached accessory structures, 
including detached garages or carports, are not permitted to be converted into a JADU. 
(g) Unit Access. A JADU must include: 
 
(1) A separate exterior to serve the JADU only; and 
 
(2) When a JADU shares sanitation facilities or utility controls (such as a thermostat for 
heating and cooling), an interior entry access between the JADU and the Single-Family Dwelling 
Structure is required. For a JADU with its own sanitation facilities and utility controls, interior access is 
not required, but may be provided voluntarily. 
(h) Efficiency Food Preparation Area. A JADU shall include an efficiency kitchen that includes the 
following components: 
(1) Cooking facility with appliances; and 
 
(2) Food preparation counter and storage with cabinets that are of reasonable size in relation to 
the size of the JADU. 
(i) Sanitation Facilities. A JADU may include its own separate sanitation facilities or may share sanitation 
facilities with the primary dwelling unit. 
(j) Building and Fire Requirements. 
 
(1) No fire wall separation or noise attenuation measures are required between the main 
dwelling and the JADU. No fire sprinklers are required for the JADU, unless the associated 
21 of 368

--- page 22 ---
improvements meet the threshold for a "substantial remodel" as defined by Chapter 23, Building and 
Construction, of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The JADU shall have an adjoining door connected to 
the main living area for fire separation. A smoke alarm shall be required in the JADU and shall be 
connected to the smoke alarm in the main residence. 
 
(2) The JADU shall be equipped with a carbon monoxide detector. 
 
(k) Utility Service. Separate water connection, a separate sewer service connection, and power 
connection as water, sewer, and power service are not required for a JADU. 
(l) Parking. No additional off-street parking is required for a JADU. 
 
(m) Address Assignment. An application for a building permit for a JADU must include application for a 
separate address assignment. 
(n) Owner Occupancy. If the JADU has shared sanitation facilities with the existing structure, owner-
occupancy shall be required. The owner may reside in either the remaining portion of the structure or the newly 
created JADU. Owner-occupancy shall not be required if the JADU has its own sanitation facilities, or if the 
owner is another governmental agency, land trust, or housing organization. 
Section 12. Section 27.19.090 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
 
27.19.090 JADU Deed Restriction. 
 
(a) Prior to building permit issuance for a JADU, a deed restriction shall be recorded to indicate the 
following: 
(1) Sale of the JADU separately from the single-family residence is prohibited. 
 
(2) The approved size and attributes of the JADU. 
 
(b) A copy of this deed restriction must be given to each prospective occupant. 
 
Section 13. Section 27.19.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted. 
Section 14. Section 27.19.110 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted. 
Section 15. Section 27.19.120 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted. 
Section 16. Environmental Determination. In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 27080.7 and 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, section 15282(h), this action is statutorily exempt from 
the requirements of CEQA because it is an accessory dwelling unit Ordinance that is implementing provisions of 
the Government Code related to ADUs and JAUDs. 
22 of 368

--- page 23 ---
Section 17. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect. 
 
Section 5. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accordance with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter. 
Section 6. Legislative History and Effective Date. This Ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption. 
Place attachments here 
23 of 368

--- page 24 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO  
DRAFT ORDINANCE NO. ____ (2026) 
AN ORDINANCE INTRODUCE AN ORDINANCE TO AMENDAMENDING THE SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE 
CHAPTER 27.19, “ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT AND JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT – RESIDENTIAL 
ZONES” TO ADDRESS COMMENTS FROM THE CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND COMMUNITY 
DEVELOPMENT (HCD) TO ALIGN WITH CURRENT STATE LAW, AND TO ADDRESS HOUSING ELEMENT 
PROGRAMS, AND FIND THE ORDINANCE EXEMPT FROM CEQA PURSUANT TO SECTION 21080.7 OF THE PUBLIC 
RESOURCES CODE AND SECTION 15282(H) OF THE CEQA GUIDELINES. 
WHEREAS, an existing Ordinance addressing Accessory Dwelling Units and Junior Accessory Dwelling 
Units is codified as Chapter 27.19, as adopted on March 21, 2022; and 
WHEREAS, several amendments to State Accessory Dwelling Unit law have been adopted since adoption 
of Chapter 27.19; and 
WHEREAS, Policy LU 3.1 - Housing Diversity of the Land Use Element of General Plan 2040, promotes 
safe, attractive, and walkable residential neighborhoods with diverse types and sizes of homes for individuals, 
families, and households of all income levels; and 
WHEREAS, under Policy H1.4 - Support Increased Accessory Dwelling Unit Development of the Housing 
Element of General Plan 2040, the City is to amend the Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance to align with current 
State law and to resolve any inconsistencies identified by the California Housing and Community Development 
Department; and 
WHEREAS, on October 18, 2024, the City received a letter from the California Housing and Community 
Development Department outlining provisions in the City of San Mateo Zoning Ordinance that were inconsistent 
with State Accessory Dwelling Unit regulations; and 
WHEREAS, these changes to State Accessory Dwelling Unit law necessitate amendments to Chapter 
27.19; and 
 
WHEREAS, this Ordinance is statutorily exempt from the requirements of the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to Section 21080.17 of the Public Resources Code and Section 15282(h) of the 
CEQA Guidelines because it is an accessory dwelling unit ordinance that is implementing the provisions of the 
Government Code related to Accessory Dwelling Units and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units. 
WHEREAS, on December 9, 2025, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing, received 
all written and oral public comments, and recommended that the City Council approve the proposed Ordinance 
to amend Chapter 27.19. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS: 
 
Section 1. The title of Chapter 27.19 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
 
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS AND JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS 
24 of 368

--- page 25 ---
Section 2. The title that precedes Section 27.19.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, and that reads, “Article I 
Accessory Dwelling Unit” is deleted. 
Section 3. Section 27.19.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
 
27.19.020 Definitions. 
 
The definitions in this Section shall apply only to this Chapter. 
 
(a) “Accessory dwelling unit” (ADU) means an attached or detached residential dwelling unit which 
provides complete independent living facilities for one or more persons, is accessory to the primary residential 
dwelling unit(s), and includes permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking facilities and sanitation 
on the same lot as a Single-Family Dwelling Structure or Multifamily Dwelling Structure is or will be situated. 
(1) “Attached ADU” means an accessory dwelling unit that is attached to a primary residential 
dwelling unit, or portion thereof (including an attached garage or accessory structure). 
(2)“Conversion ADU” means any accessory dwelling unit created by the conversion of any 
existing structure or portion thereof. The Conversion ADU may be created using existing structural 
components of the existing structure, or may be reconstructed to the same extent as the existing 
structure. 
(3)“Detached ADU” means an accessory dwelling unit that is separated from a primary 
residential dwelling unit. 
(4)“New Construction ADU” means any accessory dwelling unit that does not meet the 
definition and requirements of a Conversion ADU. 
(5)“Nonexempt ADU" means an accessory dwelling unit that does not meet the definition of 
a State Exempt ADU. 
(6)“State Exempt ADU” means an accessory dwelling unit that is created pursuant to 
Government Code Section 66323. 
(7)“Multifamily ADU” means an accessory dwelling unit on a lot with an existing or 
proposed Multifamily Dwelling Structure. 
(8)“Single-Family ADU” means an accessory dwelling unit on a lot with an existing or proposed 
Single-Family Dwelling Structure. 
(b) “ADU Living Area” means the interior conditioned space within an Accessory Dwelling Unit, such as 
areas used for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation, and may also include attic or basement areas 
connected to the ADU. ADU Living Area does not include non-habitable spaces such as garages, carports, 
unconditioned utility rooms, enclosed storage areas not internally accessible by the ADU, or other accessory 
structures attached to the ADU. 
25 of 368

--- page 26 ---
(c) “Junior accessory dwelling unit” (JADU) means a unit that is no more than 500 square feet in size and 
contained entirely within an existing or proposed Single-Family Dwelling. 
(d) “Multifamily Dwelling Structure” means a structure with two or more attached primary residential 
dwelling units. 
(e) “Single-Family Dwelling Structure" means a one-family dwelling primary residential unit that either 
stands alone on a lot or is detached from other primary residential dwelling unit(s) on the same lot. 
Section 4. Section 27.19.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
 
27.19.030 Prohibition on Sale and Limitation on Rental. 
 
(a) An ADU shall not be sold separately from the primary residence, except as allowed by Government 
Code Section 66341. 
(b) A JADU shall not be sold separately from the primary residential dwelling unit. 
 
(c) If an ADU or JADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive 
calendar days. 
Section 5. Section 27.19.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
 
27.19.040 Ministerial Permit Approval. 
 
A permit application for an ADU and/or a JADU is required in order to demonstrate that the unit is in 
compliance with the provisions of this Chapter. If the ADU is in full compliance with the provisions of this 
Chapter, a ministerial, non-discretionary permit will be issued. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this 
Code, the issuance of a ministerial ADU or JADU permit may not be appealed. 
Section 6. Section 27.19.045 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
 
27.19.045 Discretionary Review as Alternative to Ministerial Approval. 
 
(a) As an alternative to ministerial review, an applicant may submit an application for discretionary 
review of an ADU proposal that is not in full compliance with any objective standard of this Chapter, including 
but not limited to the height, setback, or daylight plane provisions of this Chapter, and/or for an ADU that 
proposes a second story deck or balcony exceeding the standards outlined in this Chapter. The discretionary 
review application shall not be used to increase the maximum allowable floor area of a lot. The application for 
discretionary approval shall be granted if the Zoning Administrator finds all of the following: 
(1) The proposed ADU is consistent with all applicable objective design standards in the 
adopted R1 Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines. 
(2) The proposed ADU would not result in a negative impact to public health, safety, or welfare. 
26 of 368

--- page 27 ---
(3) If the proposed ADU does not comply with height, setback, or daylight plane standards, there 
are exceptional circumstances applicable to the property that would make compliance with the 
standard(s) an undue hardship, and the deviations from applicable standards are minimized. 
(4) If the proposed ADU includes a second story deck larger than 50 square feet, the deck or 
balcony is located and oriented to minimize direct views into neighboring windows or yard spaces, and 
screening is incorporated where necessary to minimize such views. 
(5) The proposed ADU is consistent with all applicable provisions of the General Plan. 
 
(b) The decision of the Zoning Administrator shall not preclude the ability of an applicant to receive a 
ministerial permit for an ADU that is in full compliance with the provisions of this Chapter. 
(c) The decision of the Zoning Administrator may be appealed to the City Manager or designee, which 
may be a hearing officer. 
Section 2. Section 27.19.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
 
27.19.050 General Requirements. 
 
Applicability. The following shall apply to ADUs and JADUs in all zoning districts that allow for residential 
uses: 
 
(a) The provisions of this Chapter apply only to ADU Living Area. Accessory structures, such as garages, 
carports, non-habitable utility rooms, storage areas, or sheds, whether detached or attached to an ADU, shall be 
subject to the requirements of the underlying zoning district and other applicable provisions of the Zoning Code. 
(b) Development Impact Fees. Development impact fees for ADUs shall be established in an amount set 
forth by resolution of the City Council. No impact fees shall be charged for ADUs 750 square feet in size or 
smaller. Any impact fees charged for an ADU over 750 square feet shall be charged proportionately in relation to 
the square footage of the primary residential dwelling unit. 
(c) Utility Service. For Conversion ADUs, a separate water connection, a sewer service connection, or 
power connection is not required. If an ADU is not converted from existing space, the City may require new or 
separate utility connections. 
(d) Utility Fees. For a Conversion ADU, payment of a connection fee or capacity charge is not required. 
For an ADU that is separate from an existing structure, the City will require payment of a connection fee or 
capacity charge that is proportionate to the ADU's burden. An ADU shall not be considered a new residential use 
for the purposes of calculating connection fees or capacity charges for utilities, including water and sewer 
service, except when the ADU is constructed with a new primary residential dwelling unit. 
(e) Address Assignment. An application for a building permit for an ADU must include application for a 
separate address assignment. 
Section 3. Section 27.19.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
27 of 368

--- page 28 ---
27.19.060 Single-Family ADU Development Standards. 
 
(a) Applicability. This section applies to ADUs located on a lot with an existing or proposed Single-Family 
Dwelling Structure. Number of Units. A lot with an existing or proposed Single-Family Dwelling Structure may 
include any combination of the following three types of ADUs, provided that each meets the applicable 
development standards. 
(1) One Attached or Conversion ADU. 
 
(2) One Detached New Construction ADU. 
 
(3) One JADU, provided it is located within the walls of an existing or proposed Single-Family 
Dwelling Structure. 
(b) Maximum Unit Size and Floor Area Ratio (FAR). FAR and unit size maximums for both Attached and 
Detached ADUs in excess of 800 square feet are governed by the maximum FAR established by the underlying 
zoning district and remaining floor area allowance available on the lot. Up to 800 square feet of ADU living area, 
including New Construction State Exempt ADUs, is exempt from the maximum FAR for each lot with a Single-
Family Dwelling Structure. This exemption does not apply to JADU living area. In addition, the following shall 
apply: 
(1) An ADU shall not be larger, in terms of living area, than the primary residential 
dwelling unit. However, when the primary residential dwelling unit is less than or equal to 800 
square feet in size, a State Exempt ADU of up to 800 square feet is allowed. 
(2) A Conversion ADU within the walls of an existing primary dwelling unit or accessory 
structure is not subject to size requirements. ADU conversions may be expanded up to 150 square feet 
beyond the existing footprint provided the expansion is used to accommodate ingress and egress to 
the ADU. 
(c) Height. The specific height maximums are applicable to all zoning districts which permit ADUs. 
 
(1) Attached Accessory Dwelling Units. Maximum building height for an attached ADU is 24 
feet to top plateline and 32 feet to roof peak as measured from existing grade. 
(2) Detached Accessory Dwelling Units. Maximum building height for a detached ADU is 18 
feet to top plateline and 24 feet to roof peak as measured from existing grade. 
(d) Setbacks. An ADU shall have setbacks as follows: 
 
(1) No setback shall be required for an existing garage or accessory structure that is converted 
to an ADU which is constructed in the same location and to the same dimensions, footprint, and height 
as the existing structure; or for a Detached ADU that is proposed in the rear one-third of a lot that 
otherwise meets all requirements of accessory buildings and structures in required yards of R1 districts 
pursuant to Chapter 27.70. 
28 of 368

--- page 29 ---
(2) A minimum setback of four feet shall be required from the side and rear lot lines for all new 
ADU construction not meeting the criteria set forth in subsection (1) above, including ADUs constructed 
above an existing garage. 
(3) A minimum setback from the front lot line, as required in the lot's underlying zone district, 
shall be required for all New Construction ADUs not meeting the criteria set forth in subsection (1) 
above, including ADUs constructed above an existing garage. No setback is required for a State Exempt 
ADU. 
 
(e) Unit Access. An ADU must include a separate exterior entrance from the primary residential dwelling 
unit. An interior access may be provided between the two units, but is not required. 
(f) ADU and JADU Parking Standards. 
 
(1) General Requirements. No off-street parking shall be required for any ADU or JADU. The 
required parking for the primary residential dwelling unit(s) must comply with the underlying zoning 
district’s current standards, except when an existing garage, carport, covered parking structure, or 
uncovered parking space is converted to an ADU or JADU or demolished in conjunction with 
construction of an ADU. When this occurs, no replacement off-street parking is required for the primary 
residential dwelling unit. 
(2) Voluntary Parking. Off street parking for an ADU or JADU may be provided voluntarily. 
Voluntarily provided parking associated with ADU or JADU development must be located entirely on the 
same lot, and may be provided in a garage, carport, uncovered, or in tandem orientation. Additionally, 
the following provisions may be applied to create voluntary parking for an ADU or JADU. 
(A) When a garage or carport is converted to an ADU or JADU, or demolished in 
conjunction with construction of an ADU, the existing driveway and curb cut are not required to 
be removed, and may be maintained as parking area. 
(B) A maximum of up to two voluntarily provided parking stalls may be provided for 
each ADU or JADU. 
(C) The maximum driveway width for single-car garages may be up to 20 feet to 
accommodate additional off-street parking. 
(D) Uncovered parking for an ADU or JADU may be located in the required front, side, 
and rear yard setback areas. If a covered parking structure is proposed to provide voluntary 
parking below a second-story ADU, the parking structure may be located within the footprint of 
the proposed ADU, provided that it is outside of the front yard setback of the underlying zoning 
district. When a parking structure is proposed within a required side or rear setback of the 
underlying zoning district, the plate height of the parking structure shall not exceed 9 feet in 
height. 
29 of 368

--- page 30 ---
(g) Architectural Standards. Nonexempt ADUs shall be designed to comply with the following standards, 
as applicable: 
 
(1) Be designed to meet the daylight plane requirements of the R-1 zoning district as applied to 
the nearest adjacent side and rear lot lines. 
(2) Provide and maintain obscured glazing on second-story windows up to five feet from the 
finished floor when the windows are located within five feet of a lot line with an abutting residential lot. 
(3) When an exterior staircase is proposed, it shall have a setback of at least five feet from the 
nearest lot line and the size of the second story landing shall be limited to the minimum area required to 
allow ingress and egress as specified by the California Building Code. 
(4) Rooftop decks or terraces above any portion of an ADU are prohibited. 
 
(5) When a second-story deck or balcony is proposed within a two-story ADU, the following shall 
apply: 
 
(A) Second story decks or balconies shall not be larger than 50 square feet in size; and 
 
(B) No portion of a second story deck or balcony shall be located within the setbacks of 
the underlying zoning, regardless of the ADU setbacks; and 
(C) Decks shall only face the interior of the subject propertynot face adjacent residential 
properties. 
 
Section 9. The title that precedes Section 27.19.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, and that reads, “Article II 
Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit” is deleted. 
Section 10. Section 27.19.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
 
27.19.070 Multifamily ADU Development Standards. 
 
(a) Applicability. This section applies to all ADUs located on lots with existing or proposed Multifamily 
Dwelling Structure(s). 
(b) Number of Units Allowed. 
 
(1) On a lot with a proposed Multifamily Dwelling Structure, up two new Detached ADUs 
may be allowed. 
(2) On a lot with an existing Multifamily Dwelling Structure, the following ADUs may be 
permitted in combination: 
(A) Up to eight New Construction Detached ADUs may be allowed, provided that the 
number of ADUs shall not exceed the number of existing primary residential dwelling units on 
the lot. 
(B) Conversion ADUs created by converting non-living space within an existing 
30 of 368

--- page 31 ---
Multifamily Dwelling Structure. The number of non-living space Conversion ADUs may be 
at least one, and not more than 25 percent of the number of existing primary residential 
dwelling units. 
 
(C) Any additional ADUs as allowed pursuant to State law. 
 
(c) Maximum Unit Size. 
 
(1) An ADU shall not have a larger living area than the smallest primary residential dwelling unit 
on a lot. When the smallest primary residential dwelling unit is less than 800 square feet, then a State 
Exempt ADU of up to 800 square feet is allowed. 
(2) A Conversion ADU within the existing space of a Multifamily Dwelling Structure is not subject 
to size requirements. 
(3) Floor Area Ratio (FAR). Floor area size maximums for both Attached and Detached ADUs are 
governed by the floor area maximum established by the underlying zoning district and remaining floor 
area allowance available on the lot. Up to 800 square feet of ADU Living Area is exempt from total FAR 
for the lot. The exemption for ADU floor area up to 800 square feet shall be applied individually to each 
new Detached ADU proposed on a lot with an existing or proposed Multifamily Dwelling Structure. 
(4) In instances when the existing floor area allowance of a lot has been fully utilized, only New 
Construction State Exempt ADUs of up to 800 square feet are allowed. 
(d) Height - Maximum building height for a new Detached Multifamily ADU is 18 feet to top plateline 
and 24 feet to roof peak as measured from existing grade. 
(e) Setbacks. 
 
(1) For new Detached Multifamily ADUs, a minimum setback of four feet from side and rear 
property lines is required. 
(2) A minimum setback from the front lot line, as required in the lot's underlying zone district, 
shall be required for all new Multifamily ADUs. No front setback is required for a New Construction 
Detached State Exempt ADU. 
(f) Parking. The single-family ADU development parking standards of this Chapter shall apply to 
Multifamily ADUs. 
(g) Architectural standards. The single-family ADU development architectural standards of this Chapter 
shall apply to Nonexempt ADUs on lots with an existing or proposed Multifamily Dwelling Structure. 
(h) Separation between structures. New Detached Multifamily ADUs shall be separated from the 
primary structure by a minimum of four feet, open to the sky. Where multiple new Detached ADUs are 
proposed, the ADUs may be attached to each other, but must be detached from the primary structure. 
31 of 368

--- page 32 ---
Section 4. Section 27.19.080 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
 
27.19.080 JADU Development Standards. 
 
(a) Applicability. The development standards in this section shall apply to all JADUs. 
 
(b) Permitted Zoning Districts. JADUs shall only be constructed on lots zoned to allow single-family 
residential use, or for which a Single-Family Dwelling Structure exists or is proposed to be built. The residential 
lot shall not be part of a condominium, townhouse, or other Multi-Family Dwelling Structure. 
(c) Limit to the Number of JADUs permitted. The number of JADUs is limited to one per residential lot 
with a Single-Family Residential Dwelling Structure. Lots with Multi-Family Dwelling Structures are not eligible 
for JADUs. 
(d) Setback and Other Zoning Regulations. For purposes of setbacks and other zoning regulations, the 
JADU shall be considered to be a part of the principal use of subject site and shall be subject to the same 
requirements of the underlying zoning district. 
(e) Maximum Unit Size. The living area of a JADU shall not exceed 500 square feet, including attic and 
basement areas as defined in Section 27.04.200 for the applicable zoning district. 
(f) Construct within Existing Structure. The JADU shall be constructed within the walls of the proposed or 
legally existing Single-Family Dwelling Structure, including an attached garage. Detached accessory structures, 
including detached garages or carports, are not permitted to be converted into a JADU. 
(g) Unit Access. A JADU must include: 
 
(1) A separate exterior to serve the JADU only; and 
 
(2) When a JADU shares sanitation facilities or utility controls (such as a thermostat for 
heating and cooling), an interior entry access between the JADU and the Single-Family Dwelling 
Structure is required. For a JADU with its own sanitation facilities and utility controls, interior access is 
not required, but may be provided voluntarily. 
(h) Efficiency Food Preparation Area. A JADU shall include an efficiency kitchen that includes the 
following components: 
(1) Cooking facility with appliances; and 
 
(2) Food preparation counter and storage with cabinets that are of reasonable size in relation to 
the size of the JADU. 
(i) Sanitation Facilities. A JADU may include its own separate sanitation facilities or may share sanitation 
facilities with the primary dwelling unit. 
(j) Building and Fire Requirements. 
 
(1) No fire wall separation or noise attenuation measures are required between the main 
dwelling and the JADU. No fire sprinklers are required for the JADU, unless the associated 
32 of 368

--- page 33 ---
improvements meet the threshold for a "substantial remodel" as defined by Chapter 23, Building and 
Construction, of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The JADU shall have an adjoining door connected to 
the main living area for fire separation. A smoke alarm shall be required in the JADU and shall be 
connected to the smoke alarm in the main residence. 
 
(2) The JADU shall be equipped with a carbon monoxide detector. 
 
(k) Utility Service. Separate water connection, a separate sewer service connection, and power 
connection as water, sewer, and power service are not required for a JADU. 
(l) Parking. No additional off-street parking is required for a JADU. 
 
(m) Address Assignment. An application for a building permit for a JADU must include application for a 
separate address assignment. 
(n) Owner Occupancy. If the JADU has shared sanitation facilities with the existing structure, owner-
occupancy shall be required. The owner may reside in either the remaining portion of the structure or the newly 
created JADU. Owner-occupancy shall not be required if the JADU has its own sanitation facilities, or if the 
owner is another governmental agency, land trust, or housing organization. 
Section 12. Section 27.19.090 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
 
27.19.090 JADU Deed Restriction. 
 
(a) Prior to building permit issuance for a JADU, a deed restriction shall be recorded to indicate the 
following: 
(1) Sale of the JADU separately from the single-family residence is prohibited. 
 
(2) The approved size and attributes of the JADU. 
 
(b) A copy of this deed restriction must be given to each prospective occupant. 
 
Section 13. Section 27.19.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted. 
Section 14. Section 27.19.110 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted. 
Section 15. Section 27.19.120 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted. 
Section 16. Environmental Determination. In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 27080.7 and 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, section 15282(h), this action is statutorily exempt from 
the requirements of CEQA because it is an accessory dwelling unit Ordinance that is implementing provisions of 
the Government Code related to ADUs and JAUDs. 
33 of 368

--- page 34 ---
Section 17. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect. 
 
Section 5. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accordance with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter. 
Section 6. Legislative History and Effective Date. This Ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption. 
Place attachments here 
34 of 368

--- page 35 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2311
File ID: 26-10850
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
February 02, 2026 
SUBJECT:
Salary Schedule Revision for the Senior Transportation Planner — Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the revision to the Salary Schedule for the Senior Transportation Planner classification.
BACKGROUND:
On January 12, 2026, City Council approved the updated Senior Transportation Planner and Principal Transportation 
Planner job specification series and the salary range for the new classification of Senior Transportation Planner. 
Recently, it has come to our attention that the current salary for the Senior Transportation Planner classification is not in 
alignment with Senior Planner classification for the City. Historically, the salaries for the Planner and Transportation 
Planner series have always been aligned. Positions in the Planner series are located in the Community Development 
Department and positions in the Transportation Planner series are located in the Public Works Department. The current 
salaries are as follows for these two series: 
Planner Series 
Salary Range- Monthly 
Transportation Planner Series 
Salary Range- Monthly 
Principal Planner 
$13,093.74 - $15,611.19 
Principal Transportation Planner 
$13,093.74 - $15,611.19 
Associate Planner 
$9,498.51 - $11,321.62 
Associate Transportation Planner $9,498.51 - $11,321.62 
Senior Planner 
$11,602.02 - $13,840.86 
Senior Transportation Planner 
$10,448.33 - $12,453.76 
Although the salary for the Senior Transportation Planner was set 10% above the Associate Transportation Planner, there 
is a $1,387.10 difference in monthly salary between these two classifications as outlined above. Therefore, the Public 
Works Department and Human Resources Department recommend that the salary range for the Senior Transportation 
Planner to be adjusted to $11,602.02-$13,840.86 monthly. 
Adjusting the salary range for the Senior Transportation Planner will ensure consistency, equity, and support with 
recruitment and retention. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no fiscal impact as there is sufficient funding within the current budget to support salary schedule revision
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This revision to the salary schedule for the Senior Transportation Planner is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a 
government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially 
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
35 of 368

--- page 36 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Exhibit A – Merit Salary Schedule
STAFF CONTACT
Yumi Maeda, Senior Human Resource Analyst
ymaeda@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7279
36 of 368

--- page 37 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. __ (2026) 
 
APPROVING REVISED SALARY SCHEDULE FOR THE SENIOR TRANSPORTATION PLANNER CLASSIFICATION  
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the San Mateo Municipal Code Section 2.57.030(d), approval of new 
classifications and related job specifications, salary schedules, compensation changes, elimination or 
reinstatement of positions, reallocation of positions, reclassifications, and revisions of job specifications must be 
approved by City Council Resolution; and 
 
WHEREAS, on January 12, 2026, City Council approved the updated Senior Transportation Planner and 
Principal Transportation Planner job specification series and the salary range for the new classification of Senior 
Transportation Planner; and 
 
WHEREAS historically, the salaries for the Planner and Transportation Planner series have always been 
aligned; and   
 
WHEREAS, adjusting the salary range for the Senior Transportation Planner to align with the Senior 
Planner classification will ensure consistency, equity, and support with recruitment and retention; and   
 
WHEREAS, the proposed revised salary schedule for the Senior Transportation Planner is attached 
hereto as Exhibit A; and 
 
WHEREAS, the employee associations representing the impacted classifications have been informed of 
the changes to the salary schedule and have not brought forth any objections or concerns. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:  
 
1. The revision to the Senior Transportation Planner salary schedule is not subject to California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3)) because it can be seen with 
certainty that it will not cause a physical change in the environment. 
2. The revised salary schedule for the classification of the Senior Transportation Planner is attached 
hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated by reference.  
3. The revised salary schedule for the Senior Transportation Planner is approved.  
 
37 of 368

--- page 38 ---
Exhibit A
SENIOR PLANNER 2133 - CURRENT SALARY RANGE
HOURLY
BIWEEKLY
MONTHLY
ANNUAL
STEP 1
66.9347
5,354.7800
11,602.0200
139,224.2100
STEP 2
69.9594
5,596.7500
12,126.2900
145,515.4500
STEP 3
73.1444
5,851.5500
12,678.3700
152,140.4100
STEP 4
76.4322
6,114.5700
13,248.2400
158,978.9400
STEP 5
79.8511
6,388.0900
13,840.8600
166,090.2800
SENIOR TRANPORTATION PLANNER - PROPOSED 
SALARY RANGE (IN ALIGNMENT WITH SENIOR PLANNER 
2133)
HOURLY
BIWEEKLY
MONTHLY
ANNUAL
STEP 1
66.9347
5,354.7800
11,602.0200
139,224.2100
STEP 2
69.9594
5,596.7500
12,126.2900
145,515.4500
STEP 3
73.1444
5,851.5500
12,678.3700
152,140.4100
STEP 4
76.4322
6,114.5700
13,248.2400
158,978.9400
STEP 5
79.8511
6,388.0900
13,840.8600
166,090.2800
38 of 368

--- page 39 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 18-6114
File ID: 26-10821
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
February 02, 2026 
SUBJECT:
Senior Transportation “Get Around” Program — Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
 Approve an amendment to the agreement with Serra Yellow Cab of Daly City, Inc. for the Senior Transportation “Get 
Around” program to authorize an additional $200,000 for FY 2025–26, for a total amount not to exceed $950,000, and 
authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The Get Around Program provides on-demand transportation services for qualified City of San Mateo residents aged 60 
and over. Each month a rider is eligible for eight (8) one-way trips or four (4) round-trips to destinations within the cities of 
San Mateo, Burlingame, Foster City, Belmont, Hillsborough, San Carlos and Redwood City. Additional locations outside of 
the cities listed include the Veterans' Hospitals in Menlo Park and Palo Alto and Stanford University Medical Centers. All 
rides must begin or end in the City of San Mateo. 
The City Council approved an agreement with Serra Yellow Cab of Daly City, Inc. on June 2, 2025, in an amount of 
$250,000, for a one-year term, with the option to extend via two (2) one (1) year extension for a total amount of $750,000. 
The Senior Transportation “Get Around” program has been facilitated by the Parks and Recreation Department since 
January 1, 2018, and continues to grow exponentially, adding an average of 42 new riders per month. Currently there are 
over 2,000 San Mateo seniors signed up for the program. Rides in Quarter 1 of FY 25-26 reached 3,198, nearly 45% more 
than Quarter 1 of FY 24-25 which totaled 2,206. The current allocation of $250,000 will be exhausted in February 2026, 
and staff forecasts an additional $200,000 will be necessary to fund the program through June 30, 2026. 
As of January 12, 2026, staff implemented a waiting list for new applications to mitigate the costs associated with adding 
new riders. Future funding opportunities and cost-saving measures continue to be evaluated to determine funding options 
to keep the program financially viable. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funds from Parks and Recreation operating budget through salary savings will cover the additional $200,000 funding in FY 
25-26. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change 
in the environment (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
39 of 368

--- page 40 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment
STAFF CONTACT
Zachary Silva, Community Services Manager
zsilva@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7400
40 of 368

--- page 41 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 2
CAO Approved June 2024
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND
SERRA YELLOW CAB OF DALY CITY INC., FOR
TRANSPORTATION SERVICES FOR SENIOR “GET AROUND” PROGRAM
This Amendment No. 1 is made and entered into this day of February ______, 2026 by and 
between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of 
California ("CITY"), and Serra Yellow Cab of Daly City, Inc. ("CONTRACTOR").
 
WHEREAS, City and Contractor entered into an Agreement for Transportation Services for 
Senior “Get Around Program” on June 16, 2025.
              WHEREAS, City and Contractor wish to amend the Agreement effective ___________ to 
increase compensation by $200,000 for fiscal year 2025-2026 only.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 5 “Payment” of the Agreement is amended to read:
In consideration for the full performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY 
agrees to pay CONTRACTOR an amount of up to $450,000 for fiscal year 2025-2026, 
pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by reference. The City 
may amend the Agreement for two (2) one (1) year extensions; 
July 1, 2026-June 30, 2027 and July 1, 2027-June 30, 2028 for $250,000 each year, for a 
potential Agreement total of $950,000. 
2.  
Exhibit B of the Agreement is amended to read:
All fees, taxes and services under this Agreement shall not exceed $450,000 for fiscal 
year 2025-2026. Compensation shall not exceed $250,0000 per fiscal year for 2026-2027 
and 2027-2028, if the City exercises its option to extend the Agreement. Total 
compensation pursuant to this Agreement shall not exceed $950,000.
3. 
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and CONTRACTOR have executed this Amendment No. 1 
on___________________.
41 of 368

--- page 42 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 2 of 2
CAO Approved June 2024
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Joanne Magrini
Director, Parks and Recreation 
Date
Talib Salamin
Serra Yellow Cab of Daly City Inc.
President
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Mazarin Vakharia
Assistant City Attorney
Date
42 of 368

--- page 43 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 18-6113
File ID: 26-10840
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
February 02, 2026 
SUBJECT:
Audio Solutions Special Events Support — Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternate purchasing procedure; approve an agreement in an amount not to exceed 
$64,750.00 with Thor Audio Solutions for sound, stage, dance floor and support services at city-wide special events from 
July 22, 2024-December 31, 2025, and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement substantially in the form 
presented. 
BACKGROUND:
On July 22, 2024, the City Manager approved a contract in the amount of $95,000 with Thor Audio Solutions to provide 
staging, sound, dance floors, and event logistics support for Citywide events from July 22, 2024-December 21, 2025. Due to 
additional stage requirements towards the end of the event season the actual costs for the contract term were 
$158,370.00, which exceeded the amount authorized by contract. Specifically, the scope did not calculate the per cost 
event accurately to accommodate additional events as intended. The contract also expired on December 31, 2025.  To 
reflect the actual costs of services provided for the contract term, and in order to reimburse the vendor for services 
already rendered, a new contract is required.  The City Council is being asked to approve this new contract because the 
total value of services provided by this vendor exceeds $100,000.
Pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.050(b), the City may use any purchasing procedures approved by the 
City Council, if it makes a finding concurrent with the award of the contract that the procedures are in the best interest of 
the City. This agreement is for services already rendered that were related to an existing vendor who had the technical 
knowledge to continue providing services for event support services. Thus, staff recommends approval of the agreement 
in an amount not to exceed $64,750.00 which is in the City’s best interests. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding for this amendment is budgeted in the events budget for FY2025-2026. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
43 of 368

--- page 44 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Zachary Silva, Community Services Manager
zsilva@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7400
44 of 368

--- page 45 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO.      (2026)
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR AN AGREEMENT WITH THOR AUDIO 
SOLUTIONS FOR EVENT EQUIPMENT SERVICES IN AN AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED $64,750.00 FOR FY2025-
2026
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo entered into a contract on July 22, 2024 with Thor Audio Solutions to 
provide event equipment services and the contract; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo the contract expired on December 31, 2025; and
WHEREAS, the City’s original contract was for $95,000 and actual services rendered amounted to a 
total of $158,370.00.  $93,620 of the original contract has been paid resulting in a $64,750.00 difference, due 
to additional events and stage requirements during this time period; and
WHEREAS, the City requests additional contract authority from City Council in an amount not to exceed
$64,750.00 for services rendered in fiscal years 2024-2025 and 2025-26; and
WHEREAS, Municipal Code Sections 3.60.050(b) provides that exceptions to the City Council award 
procedures are possible if the Council makes a finding concurrent with the award that calling for bids for that 
particular agreement is impracticable, unavailing, or impossible; and
WHEREAS, City staff recommends approval of the additional agreement with Thor Audio Solutions for 
services rendered during the contract term in an amount not to exceed $64,750.00.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS and
RESOLVES that:
1. This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which 
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical 
impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
2. Pursuant to Municipal Code Section 3.60.050(b), calling for bids would be impracticable, unavailing, 
or impossible because Thor Audio Solutions has already rendered services.
45 of 368

--- page 46 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 12 
Rev 12/22 
AGREEMENT WITH PERRY THORWALDSON, SOLE PROPRIETOR OF THOR AUDIO SOLUTIONS 
FOR EVENT EQUIPMENT SERVICES FOR  
CITY OF SAN MATEO SPECIAL EVENTS 
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
("CITY"), and Perry Thorwaldson, Sole Proprietor of Thor Audio Solutions, a ("CONTRACTOR"), whose 
address is 945 Berryessa Road, Suite 4, San Jose, CA 95133. 
 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain event equipment services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these event equipment services by 
reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONTRACTOR has offered 
to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
.
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference.  
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
 
Specific Event Duties for the Central Park Music Series: 
 
CONTRACTOR will provide all sound equipment necessary for a complete concert set-up as 
outlined in the Request for Proposal.  
46 of 368

--- page 47 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 12 
Rev 12/22 
CONTRACTOR will be provided vehicular access to enter into park from the 5th Avenue 
entrance at determined date and time with City.  
CONTRACTOR will have venue available to performer’s personnel for set up a minimum of two 
hours prior to scheduled performance.  
 
All set up must be completed no later than 30 minutes prior to scheduled performance.  
CONTRACTOR will complete sound break down and be exited from area 2 hours after event 
ends.  
CONTRACTOR is allowed to park in maintenance yard of park for the duration of the event. 
CONTRACTOR must limit vehicles to asphalt pathways; vehicles not allowed on lawn or 
landscaped areas.  
 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR'S work. 
 
Specific Event Duties for the Central Park Music Series: 
 
CITY will keep grass cut short to allow dance floor to lie flat, and will not water 48 hours prior to 
event to prevent damage to lawn. 
 
CITY will provide gate code into Central Park to CONTRACTOR. 
 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on Friday, July 17, 2024 
and be completed on March 31, 2026 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR a fee not to exceed 
$64,750  pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
47 of 368

--- page 48 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 12 
Rev 12/22 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR. CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall 
be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONTRACTOR’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The CONTRACTOR’S duty to indemnify shall 
survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement. 
 
 
48 of 368

--- page 49 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 12 
Rev 12/22 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified 
in Exhibit C to this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
49 of 368

--- page 50 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 12 
Rev 12/22 
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 20 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Alex Khojikian 
City Manager 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONTRACTOR: 
Thor Audio Solutions 
Attn:  Perry Thorwaldson 
945 Berryessa Road Suite 4 
San Jose, CA 95133 
 
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR. 
50 of 368

--- page 51 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 12 
Rev 12/22 
 
SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
 
 
 
51 of 368

--- page 52 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 12 
Rev 12/22 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Thor Audio Solutions have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
Alex Khojikian 
City Manager 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Perry Thorwaldson 
President  
Thor Audio Solutions 
 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mazarin Vakharia 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A:  
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B:  
Payment Rates 
Exhibit C:  
Insurance Requirements 
52 of 368

--- page 53 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 12 
Rev 12/22 
EXHIBIT A 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
Event services could include but not limited to: 
 
• 4th of July in the Park 
o Thursday, July 4, 2024 
o Friday, July 4, 2025 
 
• Central Park Music Series 
o Thursdays, July 11 – August 8, 2024 (skip July 4) 
o Thursdays, June 19 – August 7, 2025 
 
• Dia de los Muertos 
o Saturday, October 12, 2024 
o Saturday, October 11, 2025 
 
• Boo’s on B Street 
o Saturday, October 26, 2024 
o Saturday, October 25, 2025 
 
Type of requirements will vary per event and will be decided by CITY. 
 
Staging Requirements 
 
Staging support services must meet the following minimum specifications: 
• Set up and take down of vendor owned 20’ x 20’ stage with elevated (minimum 3’) stage floor 
and skirting 
• Set up of vendor owned stair unit with safety railing on stage 
• Set up of vendor provided rear backdrop truss with display capability for two (2) 20’ x 2.5’ onstage 
banners 
• ADA Ramp or elevator 
 
Tent Requirements 
 
• Set up and take down of vendor provided 10’ x 10’ tent booths with zip-in walls  
• Includes one (1) 10’ x 10’ tent with zip in walls that serves as “backstage” dressing area for 
performers 
• Includes ten (10) 10’ x 10’ vendor provided tents to serve as food booths that comply with the 
County of San Mateo Health regulations 
 
Dance Floor Requirements 
 
Dance floor support services must meet the following minimum specifications: 
 
53 of 368

--- page 54 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 12 
Rev 12/22 
• One (1) 20’ x 25’ dance floor with minimum 1” subflooring 
• One pedestrian pathway leading to the dance floor from crowd (approximately 95’ feet long) 
 
Audio/Visual Support Requirements 
 
The audio system must be capable of producing clear, quality sound for an outdoor audience of up to 
3,000 people while being respectful of residents located near the park/area. 
 
Audio support services must meet the following minimum specifications: 
 
• Onsite sound engineer – same individual each week 
• Front of House mix 
• 24-channel mixing equipment with full effects support 
• Eight (8) onstage monitors with a minimum of six (6) separate mixes 
• All necessary audio cables and speaker cables 
 
 
 
54 of 368

--- page 55 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 12 
Rev 12/22 
EXHIBIT B 
 
PAYMENT RATES 
 
Total cost may change based on needs of event and availability of items and staff. CITY may change, 
modify and adjust needs per event and services will be agreed upon CITY and CONTRACTOR up to 24 
hours prior to the event. 
 
Staging 
Built Stage 
 
 
 
 
 
$2,880 per event 
Mobile Stage  
 
 
 
 
$3,550 per event 
 
Tents 
10 food service, 1 band w/ zipper 
 
 
$1,210 per event 
 
Dance Floor 
20’ x 25’ 
 
 
 
 
 
$1,860 per event 
 
 
 
Audio/Visual 
Speakers, Sound engineer, etc. 
 
 
$3,300 per event 
 
All payments will be made payable to Thor Audio Solutions and paid within 30 days after services 
rendered. 
 
55 of 368

--- page 56 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 12 
Rev 12/22 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$4,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease.  
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 
20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be 
excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
56 of 368

--- page 57 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 12 of 12 
Rev 12/22 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor 
may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor 
agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this 
provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.   
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.   
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of 
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.  
 
57 of 368

--- page 58 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-4661
File ID: 25-10798
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
February 02, 2026 
SUBJECT:
Humboldt Bike Lanes Alternative — Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a presentation from staff on efforts to explore potential alternatives to a portion of the Humboldt Street bike 
lanes and receive direction/recommendation from City Council. 
BACKGROUND:
In 2020, the City Council adopted the Bicycle Master Plan (BMP), which identifies projects and programs organized 
around five goals: Connectivity, Safety and Comfort, Community, Equity, and Ridership. All BMP projects were 
subsequently prioritized, resulting in more than 100 planned improvements. The Humboldt Street bike lane segment 
ranked among the top three priorities citywide. The following timeline summarizes how the Humboldt Street bike lanes 
were constructed, community response to the project, and how it led to additional outreach looking into the feasibility 
of an alternative route:

July 2020 – The program year for the FY 2020-21 federal Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding 
from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). A portion of these funds was allocated 
towards street and sidewalk improvements, with a goal of repairing deteriorated streets, as well as providing 
accessibility and public safety improvements to streets and sidewalks in the CDBG Priority Neighborhood. 
Specifically, City Council tasked Public Works with prioritizing implementation of its bike master plan, as noted in 
the 2020-21 Annual Action Plan (AAP) to HUD. The project, which included improvements to target this goal and to 
help implement the bike master plan, was titled the North Central Bike Lanes Project (Project).

May 2021 – Adoption of the 2021-22 AAP to HUD, which discussed planned use of funding for pedestrian and 
bicycle improvements for the Project, showing continued progress towards meeting the goal of street and 
sidewalk improvements in a CDBG priority neighborhood. 

July 2021 – Design completed for the North Central Bike Lanes Project.

November 2021 – Construction began on the paving and pedestrian improvements portion of the North 
Central Bike Lanes Project.

February 2022 – City Council authorized installation of the bike lanes on Humboldt Street as part of the North 
Central Bike Lanes Project. The Project included, but was not limited to, approximately 1.3 miles of Class II 
bicycle lanes on Humboldt Street between 5th Avenue and Peninsula Avenue and required the removal of 
approximately 170 parking spaces on Humboldt Street.

July 2022 – Construction of the North Central Bike Lanes Project was completed.

August 2022 – March 2023 – Residents reported that the parking loss associated with the new bike lanes was 
having a significant negative impact on the North Central neighborhood, especially those residents living 
directly on Humboldt Street.

May 2023 – City Council appropriated funds for a new initiative, the North Central Complete Streets 
Plan, to address circulation and parking impacts resulting from the North Central Bike Lanes Project.
58 of 368

--- page 59 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

June 2023 – May 2024 – Through outreach for the North Central Complete Streets Plan and other 
community contacts, staff continued to receive feedback highlighting ongoing parking loss impacts caused 
by the 2022 bike lane installation on Humboldt Street.
 
At the June 17, 2024, City Council meeting, residents reiterated ongoing concerns about difficulty finding parking in 
the North Central neighborhood that was exacerbated by the Project. City Council directed staff to begin 
investigating additional ways to address community concerns. In response, staff hosted two workshops: In October 
2024, staff met with the smaller North Central Lived Experience Group, which was formed as part of the North 
Central Complete Streets Plan (NCCSP), to discuss the bike lanes on Humboldt Street and explore potential 
alternatives that might help alleviate impacts. In December 2024, staff held a larger community workshop at the 
Martin Luther King Jr. Center, where more than 110 residents attended in person to provide feedback on the bike 
lanes on Humboldt Street, post-installation.
PHASE I DIRECTION FROM CITY COUNCIL
On February 3, 2025, City Council held a Study Session where staff presented the feedback from the October and 
December 2024 meetings as well as the NCCSP and sought Council direction on how to address community impacts 
resulting from the Project. Staff presented the five (5) following (paraphrased) alternatives for Council 
consideration:

Alternative #1 - Keep As-Is: Retains the Class II bike lanes on Humboldt Street and do not restore any parking.
 

Alternative #2 - Bicycle Boulevard on Humboldt Street: Removal of the existing Class II bike lanes on 
Humboldt Street, replacement with a bike boulevard with level 2 and 3 traffic calming devices, and 
restoration of approximately 170 parking spaces on Humboldt Street from Peninsula Avenue to 5th 
Avenue.
 

Alternative #3 - Partial Removal of Bike Lanes, and Establishment of a Bike Boulevard on a Parallel 
Street: This alternative was broken down into a short-term plan and a long-term plan.

Humboldt Street Parking Restoration (2nd Avenue to Indian Avenue Only): In the short-term 
restore approximately 100 parking spaces on Humboldt Street from 2nd Avenue to Indian Avenue 
and establish a north-south street parallel to Humboldt Street as a pilot bike boulevard between 2nd 
Avenue and Indian Avenue.

Pilot Parallel Bike Boulevard: Implementation of a pilot bike boulevard on a different street (Idaho 
Street or Fremont Street) after community vetting.

Long-Term Plan: In the long-term perform a connectivity study in the North Central 
neighborhood to reanalyze destinations within the community and see how to improve bike 
connectivity north of Indian Avenue and south of 2nd Avenue and further within the North 
Central neighborhood.

Alternative #4 - Restore Parking with No Bike Infrastructure: Remove bike lanes and restore 
approximately 170 parking spaces on Humboldt Street from Peninsula Avenue to 5th Avenue.

Alternative #5 - Streetlighting Upgrades: Upgrade existing cobrahead streetlight fixtures to brighter 
fixtures to help address community concerns about low lighting while assessing negative effects of 
additional light on residential properties.
 
City Council directed staff to further explore the feasibility and community support surrounding Alternatives 3 and 
5. In particular, the City Council was interested in piloting the streetlighting upgrades associated with Alternative 5, 
and they were interested in engaging the community further, especially the residents who live on Fremont and 
Idaho Street, to understand whether the community was in support of Alternative 3.
 
59 of 368

--- page 60 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PHASE II ENGAGEMENT
Phase II evaluated the feasibility of Alternatives 3 and 5 through an extensive and inclusive community engagement 
process. The strategy centered on three public workshops and one pilot streetlighting demonstration, all designed 
to gather direct public input. To ensure broad participation, staff implemented a multi-faceted outreach campaign 
that included:
 

Partnering with trusted local networks to amplify awareness

Mailing over 35,000 notices to residents and stakeholders

Distributing more than 1,000 flyers along the corridor and at City facilities

Conducting four citywide surveys

Placing over 140 A-frame signs throughout the North Central community

Performing targeted door-to-door canvassing 

Sustained digital promotion via Nextdoor, Instagram, Facebook, X, the City’s website, and community 
partner networks

Meetings with administrators and faculty from Fiesta Gardens International School and San Mateo High School
 
This comprehensive effort generated over 50,000 digital and in-person engagements (likes, shares, comments, 
views, and QR code scans), successfully driving community participation at in-person and virtual workshops and 
providing critical feedback. Recognizing the linguistic and cultural diversity of the North Central community, all 
engagement activities prioritized accessibility and inclusion:
 

Workshops were held in person at accessible, familiar venues, including the Martin Luther King Jr. 
Center and Fiesta Gardens Elementary School

Evening sessions included childcare, food, and refreshments

Virtual attendance options were optimized for mobile devices and multi-tasking participants

All materials and presentations were provided in English, Spanish, and Chinese

Live interpretation in Spanish and Chinese was offered at all in-person and virtual workshops

Surveys were available in English, Spanish, and Chinese, both online and in print
 
This inclusive, multilingual, and multi-channel approach ensured meaningful participation from a broad cross-
section of the community throughout Phase II. Below is a summary of each of the three workshops and the 
streetlighting pilot efforts. Copies of the presentation slides and concept designs presented at these workshops are 
also available on the City’s website: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4871/Community-Workshop-Humboldt-
Street-Bike-. 
 

Workshop No. 1 - Initial Feedback
The first community workshop focused on gathering input on current travel patterns and experiences along 
Humboldt Street, Idaho Street, and Fremont Street. A total of 56 participants signed in at the registration 
table, with several additional attendees who did not sign in but completed surveys. The session began with 
a staff presentation outlining the project goals and City Council direction, followed by facilitated small-
group discussions that followed a structured set of questions to understand the impacts of the existing 
Humboldt Street bike lanes and current usage of the three corridors. Discussion groups reported key 
findings back to identify common themes. 
Summary of Meeting: Overall, the first community workshop was energetic and well-attended, with robust 
participation throughout the evening with approximately 60 attendees. A total of 58 in-person surveys were 
completed, and 155 post-meeting online surveys were received, resulting in 213 responses overall. 
The survey included questions to help staff understand existing uses of Humboldt Street, Idaho Street, and 
Fremont Street, such as for commuting, recreation, or school travel, and by what mode (bike, walking, or 
vehicle). The results of this survey were presented back to the community at the second community meeting 
60 of 368

--- page 61 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
on August 25, 2025 (slides 12-14). A copy of the presentation slides is available on the City’s website: 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4871/Community-Workshop-Humboldt-Street-Bike-.
Participants repeatedly emphasized that the removal of on-street parking to accommodate the existing 
Humboldt Street bike lanes has created a significant burden on residents and surrounding neighborhoods. 
Streetlighting improvements along the Humboldt corridor were very well received, with widespread 
agreement that upgraded lighting would substantially enhance safety and visibility for all users. There was 
no clear consensus on whether Idaho Street or Fremont Street would be the preferred location for a bike 
boulevard. Strong concerns were raised about implementing a bike boulevard on either street due to their 
narrow roadway widths, existing vehicle speeds, traffic congestion, and limited visibility. Several attendees 
proposed Amphlett Boulevard as a viable alternative route that should be considered for bicycle facilities. 
Overall, the feedback highlighted a strong community desire to address parking impacts, improve safety 
through better lighting, and carefully evaluate any new bicycle route to avoid shifting problems to already 
constrained local streets.
 
Workshop No. 2 - Draft Concept Designs
Building on the feedback from Workshop No. 1, the second workshop presented draft concept designs that 
addressed the community’s priorities of not removing more parking beyond what is required under State 
daylighting laws, meaningful speed reduction, and enhanced safety for all users. The draft concepts featured 
two parallel bicycle boulevard alternatives to the existing Humboldt Street facility, both running from Indian 
Avenue to 2nd Avenue: Idaho Street Bike Boulevard and Fremont Street Bike Boulevard. Each option 
incorporated traffic-calming measures designed to lower vehicle speeds and improved safety while 
preserving on-street parking. Participants engaged in group discussions guided by a knowledgeable 
facilitator and used visual aids. Dedicated scribes captured detailed feedback. The structured format allowed 
residents to examine the proposed treatments in detail, ask technical questions, and provide targeted input 
on each corridor, setting the stage for final refinement of the preferred alternative.
 
Summary of Meeting: The second workshop, attended by 38 in-person residents and 9 virtual participants 
with more than 70 survey respondents, centered on the proposed traffic-calming measures for both the 
Idaho Street and Fremont Street bike boulevard alternatives. Attendees showed strong interest in 
examining the specific treatments presented for each corridor. Staff noted specific participant preferences 
for these treatments, based upon feedback received at the meeting and through the survey following the 
meeting, for incorporation into the bike boulevard concept designs:

For the Idaho Street alternative, participants immediately and consistently expressed a clear 
preference for speed humps over rumble strips.

The six proposed intersection safety treatments—developed in direct response to Workshop 
No. 1 feedback emphasizing intersection safety on Idaho Street—were very well received.

High-visibility crosswalks and the introduction of four-way stops at key locations were also 
strongly supported for both alternatives.

Feedback on curb extensions was mixed; several residents noted that they can make turning 
movements more difficult for larger vehicles, while traffic circles were viewed favorably as an 
alternative calming tool.
 
Overall, the proposed calming measures for both alternatives received positive feedback, with participants 
acknowledging that the designs are projected to reduce operating speeds from the current 25 mph to 
approximately 15–18 mph. However, skepticism remained about whether those speed reductions would be 
fully achieved once constructed. Concerns about driveway visibility when vehicles back out were raised 
during both the question-and-answer period and table discussions. There was notable support for creating a 
bike boulevard on either Idaho Street or Fremont Street, with many citing the anticipated reduction in 
vehicle speeds and volumes as a significant benefit. At the same time, there was equally strong sentiment 
against removing the existing bike lanes on Humboldt Street, with many participants stating they would not 
support any alternative that eliminates the current bicycle facility.
61 of 368

--- page 62 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
 
Workshop No. 3 - Final Concept Design
This third and final workshop incorporated all feedback received from Workshop No. 2 and presented 
refined final concept designs for both the Idaho Street and Fremont Street bike boulevard alternatives. The 
primary objective was to obtain clear feedback from the community on their preferred outcome:
 

Implementing the Idaho Street bike boulevard;

Implementing the Fremont Street bike boulevard; or

Retaining the existing Class II bike lanes on Humboldt Street in their current configuration
 
Staff clarified to participants in attendance as well as in the survey that the bike boulevard alternatives 
proposed for Idaho Street and Fremont Street did not involve removal of parking on these streets (beyond 
what may be required by State daylighting laws), as this was a point of confusion for some community 
members.
 
The session included a concise, high-level staff presentation that highlighted the most significant changes 
made to the bike boulevard concept designs in response to Workshop No. 2 feedback, summarized results 
from the streetlighting pilot demonstration, and strongly encouraged participants to complete a focused 
four-question survey designed to capture the community’s final preferences for the future of bicycle 
facilities on Humboldt Street. The streamlined format and clear choice presented in the survey allowed staff 
to gather decisive input to bring to the Commission and City Council. As this was the final survey of Phase II, 
staff significantly expanded distribution beyond the in-person, virtual, and online options by mailing 
approximately 4,500 prepaid-postage survey mailers to every household and business in the North Central 
community.
 
Summary of Meeting: The third and final workshop was attended by 41 residents in person and 10 virtually. 
Driveway visibility emerged as a recurring concern, with several participants noting increased bicycle usage 
on the narrower Idaho and Fremont corridors could exacerbate sight-line issues for vehicles backing out. 
While participants expressed appreciation for the substantial speed-reduction and safety enhancements 
incorporated into both final alternative designs, a notable portion of attendees maintained that either 
option would still represent a downgrade from the existing protected Class II bike lanes on Humboldt Street 
and reiterated their preference to keep the current facility unchanged.
 
Summary of Survey Results:
As a follow up to this meeting, more than 400+ individuals submitted surveys (either in-person, online, or 
mailed). In the survey, staff presented three clear options (as listed below) and asked participants to rank 
them from most preferred to least preferred (1 = most preferred and 3 = least preferred):
 

Keep Existing on Humboldt Street - Retain the existing Class II bike lanes on Humboldt Street 
in their current configuration; or

Idaho Street Alternative - Remove the Humboldt Street bike lanes, restore approximately 100 on-
street parking spaces from Indian Avenue to 2nd Avenue, and implement the refined Idaho 
Street bike boulevard; or

Fremont Street Alternative - Remove the Humboldt Street bike lanes, restore the same parking 
segment, and implement the refined Fremont Street bike boulevard.
 
Below are the results for the final survey as part of this effort broken into each distribution format (in-
person, online, or mailed). Because it was possible for someone to take the survey via multiple formats (in-
person, online, and mailed), these results are presented separately, and summarized by format, rather than 
presented collectively. All results within each format category have been reviewed and any duplicates or 
attempts to take the online survey multiple times have been removed from the summary below, but the 
results of the online survey results including the duplicates are also included in Attachment 3 (see Tables 3A 
62 of 368

--- page 63 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
and 4A).  Please note some survey participants did not fill out every question, so the results are based on 
the responses that were provided by participants. Full detailed survey results of each distribution format are 
provided in Attachment 3.
 

In-Person Survey Results
Staff received a total of 40 surveys at the workshop with 34 from residents of the North Central 
neighborhood. When asked directly which of the three alternatives they support, 35% of North 
Central respondents oppose keeping the existing bike lanes on Humboldt Street, with 65% in 
support of retaining them. Among residents who live directly on Humboldt Street, the split is more 
drastic: 0% oppose keeping and 100% support keeping the bike lanes, noting that two in-person 
respondents lived on Humboldt Street. The priority ranking indicates a preference across all groups 
to keep the existing bike lanes on Humboldt Street compared to the other alternatives. This 
demonstrates consistent neighborhood-wide sentiment to maintain the current Humboldt Street 
configuration.
 

Online Results
Staff received a total of 219 online surveys, with 99 survey responses from residents of the North 
Central neighborhood. When asked directly which of the three alternatives they support, 27% of 
North Central respondents oppose keeping the existing bike lanes on Humboldt Street, with 73% 
supporting retaining them. Among residents who live directly on Humboldt Street, the split is nearly 
identical: 26% oppose and 74% support keeping the bike lanes. The priority ranking indicates a 
preference across all groups to keep the existing bike lanes on Humboldt Street compared to the 
other alternatives. This demonstrates consistent neighborhood-wide online sentiment for 
maintaining the current Humboldt Street configuration. These results are consistent with the in-
person survey results. 
Staff also reviewed the survey findings inclusive of duplicate IP addresses (Tables 3A and 4A of 
Attachment 3) and determined that the findings did not significantly change, where the majority of 
responses were in support of keeping the bike lanes. 

Mailed Results
Staff distributed prepaid postage mailed surveys to the North Central neighborhood and received a 
total of 150 survey responses. Of these, 42 (28%) were located on Humboldt Street, 13 (9%) were 
located on Idaho Street, 19 (13%) were located on Fremont Street, and 76 (51%) were located in the 
greater North Central area. Other communities outside of North Central were not sent a mailed 
survey.
 
When asked directly which of the three alternatives they support, 68% of North Central 
respondents oppose keeping the existing bike lanes on Humboldt Street, with only 32% in support 
of retaining them. Among residents who live directly on Humboldt Street, the split is similar: 66% 
oppose and 34% support keeping the bike lanes. Idaho Street residents in particular were highly 
opposed to a bike boulevard on Idaho Street. This demonstrates consistent neighborhood-wide 
mailed survey sentiment against maintaining the current Humboldt Street configuration. These 
results diverged noticeably from the in-person and online surveys.
Priority Ranking Summary: When respondents were instead asked to rank the three alternatives 
from most to least preferred (1 = most preferred, 3 = least preferred), the results varied between 
North Central and Humboldt Street residents.
 
Overall North Central residents ranked the options as follows:
1.
Keep the existing bike lanes on Humboldt Street (highest average ranking)
63 of 368

--- page 64 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
2.
Fremont Street bike boulevard alternative
3.
Idaho Street bike boulevard alternative (lowest average ranking)
 
Humboldt Street and Idaho Street residents specifically ranked the alternatives differently:
1.
Fremont Street bike boulevard alternative
2.
Keep the existing bike lanes on Humboldt Street
3.
Idaho Street bike boulevard alternative (least preferred)
 
This shift between the responses to questions #1-#3 and the ranked-choice question suggests that 
while a clear majority actively oppose keeping the Humboldt configuration unchanged, many still 
view it as preferable to the bike boulevard options when forced to rank all three alternatives. A 
detailed table comparing the survey question results versus ranked choice is provided in Attachment 
3.
 

Streetlight Pilot
The City conducted a streetlighting pilot between 9/17/25 and 10/15/25. The streetlighting pilot was 
designed to gather direct community feedback on appropriate lighting levels and fixture styles for 
Humboldt Street and for a potential bike boulevard alternative. Two demonstration locations were 
established:
 
o
Humboldt Street: Three cobrahead fixtures were installed side-by-side for comparison — the existing 
standard cobrahead, a medium-intensity version, and a high-intensity version.
o
Idaho Street: Two pedestrian-scale fixtures were displayed — the existing pedestrian-scale standard 
and a high-intensity version. (A medium-intensity pedestrian-scale option was not included because 
the City does not currently have an approved standard for that output level.)
 
Residents were able to view the fixtures at night and provide input on preferred brightness, glare, color 
temperature, and overall suitability for each corridor. Feedback from this pilot was summarized and 
presented at Workshop No. 3 to help inform final lighting recommendations.
 
Survey Summary: Staff received a total of 71 survey responses. Of these, 63% preferred the high-brightness 
option for pedestrian-scale lights, while 46% preferred the high-brightness option for roadway streetlight 
fixtures. Full detailed survey results are provided in Attachment 3 (Table 7 and 8)

School Engagement
On January 23, 2025, the San Mateo-Foster City School District Board unanimously adopted a resolution 
strongly supporting retention of the existing Class II bike lanes on Humboldt Street. The resolution describes 
the Humboldt corridor as one of the most vital bicycle segments in the City of San Mateo and states that 
removal of the lanes would pose a threat to safety. On February 1, 2025, staff also received a letter from the 
Parent Teacher Association (PTA) of the San Mateo City School District (SMFCSD) stating their position to 
keep the bike lanes on Humboldt.
 
During Phase II outreach, staff met separately with administrators and faculty from San Mateo High School 
and Fiesta Gardens International School. Both schools emphasized that safety must remain the highest 
priority in any final decision. Fiesta Gardens International School representatives acknowledged the parking 
loss caused by the Humboldt bike lanes and noted that the already-constrained on-street parking supply in 
the surrounding neighborhood indirectly affects staff, families, and visitors. They welcomed any additional 
speed-calming measures on Indian Avenue, which experiences heavy vehicle, pedestrian, and bicycle traffic 
before and after school.
 
64 of 368

--- page 65 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Phase II Engagement Summary
Overall, the engagement efforts made for this entire process were comprehensive and consistent. The feedback 
received was mixed, but there are some common themes, as listed below:
 

Support for measures to slow speeds and volumes in neighborhood streets are welcomed, but not at the 
trade-off of removing parking or existing bicycle infrastructure.

Streetlighting upgrades are well supported as the community perceives it as having a safety benefit.

When looking at the overall priority ranking survey results during and after workshop #3, there is 
consistent support for retaining the bike lanes on Humboldt Street by in-person and online survey 
respondents. Mailed survey responses indicated residents living on Humboldt and Idaho Streets 
preferred the Fremont Street bike boulevard over retaining the Humboldt Street bike lanes.
 
FINAL FREMONT AND IDAHO STREET ALTERNATIVE AND STREETLIGHT UPGRADE
 
Existing Bicycle Usage Data: During Phase II, staff conducted weekday bicycle counts to establish baseline ridership 
and travel patterns on the three study corridors: Humboldt Street, Idaho Street, and Fremont Street. Counts were 
performed at multiple key intersections during the combined AM + PM peak periods (7:00–9:00 AM and 4:00–6:00 
PM).
 
Key findings are as follows, presented as total weekday AM+PM peak hour bicycle trips for each street, across all study 
intersections:

Humboldt Street (Peninsula Avenue to 3rd Avenue, 7 intersections):
o
343 total intersection bicycle trips
o
Directional split: 68% north–south travel, 32% east–west travel (reflecting strong through-
movement demand along the corridor).

Idaho Street (Indian Avenue to 2nd Avenue, 4 intersections):
o
124 total intersection bicycle trips during the same combined peak periods.
o
Directional split: 43% north-south on Idaho Street and 57% east-west

Fremont Street (Indian Avenue to 2nd Avenue, 4 intersections):
o
226 total intersection bicycle trips during the same combined peak periods.
o
Directional split: 37% north-south travel on Fremont Street, 63% east-west travel
These counts confirm that Humboldt Street currently carries a large number of bicycle volumes. The data helped 
inform the design of traffic-calming treatments, intersection improvements, and diversion assumptions in the final 
alternatives. Detailed intersection-by-intersection counts are included in Attachment 3 (Table 9).
Potential Idaho Street Alternative
The final bicycle facility concept for Idaho Street, as presented to the community, proposes a potential bike 
boulevard alternative along Idaho Street between Indian Avenue and 2nd Avenue. The potential alternative route is 
approximately 4,000 feet long, compared to the existing 3,200-foot bike facility on Humboldt Street over the same 
general alignment. This alternative incorporates traffic calming and safety improvements along the entire corridor. 
Safety enhancements are provided at seven intersections and include two new traffic circles at Monte Diablo 
Avenue and Indian Avenue and high-visibility crosswalks at all seven intersections. Additionally, eight speed humps 
are proposed along Idaho Street, with a total of ten-speed humps throughout the connecting route. Combined, 
these measures are projected to reduce prevailing vehicle speeds from approximately 25 mph to 15–18 mph and 
lower peak-hour traffic volumes from 130–289 vehicles per hour to 31–150 vehicles per hour. The final proposed 
concept can be found in Attachment 1 – Final Idaho Street Alternative.

Cost Estimate: $1.37M: This cost includes restoration of Humboldt Street from Indian Avenue to 2nd Avenue 
to before bike lanes were installed, the design work needed to bring the 15% concept designs to 
construction, construction and inspection services and a contingency. It should be noted that safety 
enhancements are proposed at the intersection of Indian Avenue and Humboldt Street as part of a funded 
and planned project (Local Roadway Safety Plan Priority Package 1) and therefore not included in the cost 
65 of 368

--- page 66 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
estimate.
 
Potential Fremont Street Alternative
The final bicycle facility concept for Fremont Street, as presented to the community, proposes a bike boulevard 
along Fremont Street between Indian Avenue and 2nd Avenue. The existing bike facility on Humboldt Street is 
approximately 3,200 feet long; the new proposed route along Fremont Street extends roughly 4,700 feet before 
reconnecting to the existing Class II bike lane on Humboldt Street. This alternative includes safety improvements at 
ten intersections. Proposed treatments include high-visibility crosswalks, all-way stops, centerline hardening, and 
curb extensions at Monte Diablo Avenue. In total, ten speed cushions are proposed, along with high-visibility 
crosswalks at Cypress Avenue, Tilton Avenue, both Monte Diablo Avenue intersections, Santa Inez Avenue, and 
Indian Avenue. Additionally, the proposal converts 2nd Avenue between S. Grant Avenue and Fremont Street to 
westbound-only motor vehicle traffic, allowing contraflow (two-way) bicycle travel on that segment. Combined, 
these measures are projected to reduce existing vehicle speeds on Fremont Street from 23–26 mph to 15–18 mph 
and lower peak-hour traffic volumes from 100–200 vehicles per hour to 50–120 vehicles per hour. The final 
proposed concept can be found in Attachment 2 – Final Fremont Street Alternative.

Cost Estimate: $1.32M:  This cost includes restoration of Humboldt Street from Indian Avenue to 2nd Avenue 
to before bike lanes were installed, the design work needed to bring the 15% concept designs to 
construction, construction and inspection services and a contingency. It should be noted that safety 
enhancements are proposed at the intersection of Indian Avenue and Humboldt Street as part of a funded 
and planned project (Local Roadway Safety Plan Priority Package 1) and therefore not included in the cost 
estimate.
 
Streetlighting Upgrade

Humboldt Street – The limits of the streetlighting upgrade on Humboldt Street will be from Peninsula 
Avenue to 5th Avenue. This segment has approximately 44 existing cobrahead roadway streetlights and 20 
pedestrian scale lights. To upgrade all 66 streetlights, it is estimated to cost approximately $94,000.
 

Idaho Street – The limits of the streetlighting upgrade on Idaho Street is from Indian Avenue to 2nd 
Avenue. This segment has approximately 18 cobrahead roadway streetlights and 9 pedestrian scale lights. 
To upgrade all 27 streetlights will cost approximately $40,500.
 

Fremont Street – The limits of the streetlighting upgrade on Fremont Street will be from Indian Avenue to 
2nd Avenue, the same path as the proposed bike alternative. This segment has approximately 25 cobrahead 
roadway streetlights and 9 pedestrian scale lights. To upgrade all 34 lights would cost approximately 
$47,500.
 
OTHER CONSIDERATIONS

Permit Parking Program
Staff have received feedback from the public as early as October 2024 and during the Phase II engagement 
effort that there was interest in creating a permit parking program on and near Humboldt Street to help 
alleviate the parking issue in the community. At the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Meeting 
on December 10, 2026, commissioners also expressed an interest in advancing a permit parking program in 
North Central. 
The City’s current Residential Permit Parking Program (RPPP) policy would require amendments to meet 
the needs of North Central. To better clarify potential amendments that would be needed to the City’s 
current RPPP policy, a summary table is included below. 
Current Policy
Potential North Central Policy Amendment
Current policy restricts RPPPs to areas within 
residential neighborhoods where on-street parking is 
impacted by parked cars from non-residents, or 
Allow implementation of a Permit Parking Program or 
RPPP in North Central with consideration that 
66 of 368

--- page 67 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
parking generators such as a school, business, 
commercial district or commercial use. 
Humboldt Street was impacted by a significant loss of 
parking from the North Central Bike Lanes Project. 
Commercial vehicles are not permitted to park in 
RPPP areas.
Some community members in North Central rely on 
on-street parking to park commercial business 
vehicles. A Permit Parking Program in North Central 
could optionally allow parking of both residential and 
commercial vehicles. 
Other considerations when developing a Permit Parking Program are as follows:
o
If advanced, staff would evaluate the appropriate geographic extent of the program. Because the 
program is intended to address impacts associated with the North Central Bike Lanes Project, staff 
would consider including Humboldt Street and nearby adjacent blocks. The program area would be 
refined to balance effectiveness, equity, and administrative feasibility while targeting areas most 
directly affected by the project.
o
For the program to be effective, a per-house limit on issued permits would need to be determined. 
Staff estimate there are on average 2-3+ vehicles per household, exceeding the availability of on-
street parking supply. It is important to note that most residential parking permit programs are 
designed to manage who may park on a street, not to guarantee a space for every permitted 
vehicle. While a permit parking program wouldn’t add parking capacity to North Central, it could be 
designed to offer impacted residents a “leg up” in finding parking amongst available spaces. 
o
An estimated initial capital investment from $10,000 - $40,000+ is necessary to establish signage 
throughout the community (various depending on program area). On-going costs will include 
permit issuance, permit renewal, enforcement, and sign maintenance which is yet to be defined.

North Central Private Site Parking Leases
Per City Council feedback at the February 3, 2025, meeting and multiple comments from the North Central 
community expressing interest in increasing the available parking supply, staff explored pursuing private 
parking lot leases with private property owners. The table below summarizes the properties contacted and 
the owners’ responses.
 
Private Site Leases Matrix
Property
Interest
Dialogue
San Mateo High School
No
There are too many evening events including Adult School 
night classes. Will not be able to provide consistent supply.
San Mateo High School
District Offices
No
There are too many evening events including Adult School 
night classes. Will not be able to provide consistent supply.
Fiesta Gardens 
International 
School
No
San Mateo Foster City School District does not rent out 
spaces for overnight parking.
Sturge Presbyterian 
Church
No
The lot is used for evening events and food distribution 
events for the neighborhood in partnership with Second 
Harvest.
Community Baptist 
Church
Unresponsive
Staff reached out five times via phone and twice in person.
State of California 
Administrative Office of 
the Courts
No
The Judicial Council already has an agreement with a local 
organization for after hours and weekend/holiday use of the 
Central Branch lot, so spaces are not available for regular 
overnight use.
67 of 368

--- page 68 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Army National Guard 
Office
Maybe
There are concerns over security specifically in the back 
gated area. Staff are primarily on-site at night during the 
weekend so availability will be limited. Front parking lot 
might potentially be available depending on leasing 
compensation.
Department of Motor 
Vehicles (DMV)
Maybe
Leases will be on a non-exclusive basis; agreements are 
negotiated at market rate and limit the types of use and 
hours of use. Staff often arrive around 6AM so vehicles will 
need to be out of the lot before 6AM. Insurance as well as 
daily routine cleanup will be required.

Other Humboldt Projects
Outside of the Humboldt Bike Lane Alternative effort, the City currently has two other active safety 
improvement projects on Humboldt Street and identified additional traffic calming measures that could be 
implemented.
 
o
Poplar/Humboldt Traffic Signal Improvement: This project was completed in late September 2025 
and installed protected left turns at the Poplar Avenue and Humboldt Street intersection. This 
project was listed as the top priority project out of 10 in the City’s adopted Local Roadway Safety 
Plan (LRSP).
o
Local Roadway Safety Plan Priority Package 1: This project was awarded approximately $1 million in 
federal funding to implement Priority Projects 1, 2, 4, and 6 from the City’s adopted LRSP. Priority 
Project 4 specifically includes safety improvements at three intersections along Humboldt Street 
(Humboldt Street/Indian Avenue, Humboldt Street/E. Santa Inez Avenue, and Humboldt 
Street/Tilton Avenue). Improvements include, but are not limited to, all-way stop control, 
intersection lighting upgrades, raised crosswalks, curb extensions, and enhanced sight-distance 
improvements. The project will start the design phase in early 2026.
o
Other Humboldt Street Calming Measures: Based on consistent community feedback in support of 
additional traffic calming measures, staff explored whether additional safety enhancements along 
Humboldt Street between Peninsula Avenue and 2nd Avenue could be implemented. Staff identified 
the option of installing two raised crosswalks between Peninsula Avenue and Poplar Avenue, one at 
the existing crossing at the San Mateo Superior Court and the other at the existing crossing at 
College Way. When combined with all other ongoing Humboldt Street projects, these additional 
measures are projected to reduce prevailing vehicle speeds from the current 24–31 mph to 
approximately 22–26 mph. The two proposed raise crosswalks are estimated to cost approximately 
$130,000, for which there is currently not any identified funding.
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD) COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT FUNDING
The City of San Mateo receives annual Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding from the HUD. To 
qualify for these funds, the City follows a structured review and approval process. Each year, the City prepares and 
submits an AAP to HUD for approval prior to the allocation of funds. Prior to submission to HUD, the AAP draft is 
published for a 30-day public comment period and is presented to the Community Relations Commission for review 
and recommendation, followed by approval by the City Council. 
The original North Central Bike Lanes Project, which included installation of Class II bike lanes on Humboldt Street 
from 2nd Avenue to Indian Avenue, had a total construction contract value of approximately $1.5 million. Of this 
amount, an estimated $273,000 in CDBG funds was used specifically for the bike lane installation on Humboldt 
Street from 2nd Avenue to Indian Avenue. 
 
Should the bike lanes be removed, the portion of CDBG funds expended on the bike lanes (approximately $273,000) 
would need to be credited back to the City’s local CDBG account. HUD may require these funds to be returned to 
HUD first before being reprogrammed back to the City’s CDBG account. 
68 of 368

--- page 69 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
 
In other words, the City Council would need to reallocate funds in the amount of $273,000 from another funding 
source to replace the CDBG funds expended on the bike lanes and restore the City’s local CDBG account in 
accordance with HUD requirements. These reallocated funds would then become available for redistribution to 
other eligible projects within the City of San Mateo, in full compliance with HUD program requirements and national 
objectives.
POTENTIAL ALTERNATIVES 
Staff is providing a range of potential alternatives for Council consideration to address community concerns about safety 
and the loss of parking on Humboldt Street, as described below. These alternatives take into consideration the feedback 
from community engagement process, including the consistent and widespread support for additional traffic 
calming/safety measures and enhanced lighting and the more mixed feedback on keeping/removing the Humboldt Street 
bike lanes vs. installing bike boulevards on Idaho or Fremont Streets. Note that three of the four alternatives below include 
streetlighting upgrades, and their associated costs are reflected in the totals shown for each respective alternative. If the 
Council decides to pursue streetlighting upgrades independently from the alternatives below, the estimated cost per 
street is provided in the table below.
Streetlighting Upgrade – Estimated Cost by Street
Street
Limits
Estimated Cost
Idaho Street
2nd Avenue – Indian Avenue
$40,500
Humboldt Street
Peninsula Avenue – 5th Avenue
$94,000
Fremont Street
2nd Avenue – Indian Avenue
$47,500

Alternative #1 - Keep As-Is
This alternative retains the Class II bike lanes on Humboldt Street and does not restore any parking. This option 
maintains existing bike infrastructure, which allows for consistent North-South bike travel from 5th Avenue to 
Peninsula Avenue on Humboldt Street. This option does not address the comments from the community about 
the need to increase parking supply.
o
Cost Estimate: $0
 

Alternative #2 – Keep-As-Is with Additional Humboldt Street Calming Measures + Streetlighting 
Upgrades + Explore Permit Parking Program
This alternative retains the existing Class II bike lanes on Humboldt Street (no parking restoration) and 
includes the following additional improvements not provided in the LRSP Priority 1 project: streetlighting 
upgrades along the entire Humboldt Street corridor from Peninsula Avenue to 5th Avenue and 
implementation of enhanced traffic-calming measures on Humboldt Street beyond the scope of the LRSP 
Priority Package 1 improvements. More specifically, these improvements include the installation of two 
raised crosswalks between Peninsula Avenue and Poplar Avenue. As part of this alternative, staff will further 
explore the establishment of a permit parking program tailored to the North Central neighborhood.
o
Cost Estimate: $295,000 (Includes design, construction and inspection services, including $40,000 
estimated initial capital costs for a permit parking program.)
 

Alternative #3 – Idaho Street Bike Boulevard + Streetlighting Upgrades
This alternative would install a bike boulevard on Idaho Street from Indian Avenue to 2nd Avenue, upgrade 
streetlights on Humboldt Street from Peninsula Avenue to 5th Avenue and upgrade streetlights on Idaho 
Street from Indian Avenue to 2nd Avenue. This alternative would also remove a segment of the existing 
Class II bicycle facility on Humboldt Street from Indian Avenue to 2nd Avenue and restore approximately 100 
parking spaces in that same segment. This alternative is estimated to lower vehicle speeds on Idaho Street 
69 of 368

--- page 70 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
from 25mph to 15-18mph and lower peak-hour traffic volumes from 100–200 vehicles per hour to 50–120 
vehicles per hour.
o
Cost Estimate: $1.5M (Includes Humboldt Street roadway restoration to pre-bike-lane condition, 
Idaho Street bike boulevard installation, streetlighting upgrades on both corridors as described, 
advancement of 15% concept designs to construction-ready documents, construction, inspection 
services, and contingency. Additionally, $273,000 would need to be appropriated back into the CDBG 
local account for removal of the Humboldt bike lanes, as described above. While this is an additional 
cost, it is funds that would be available for reinvestment within the City’s CDBG areas.)
 

Alternative #4 – Fremont Street Bike Boulevard + Streetlighting Upgrades
This alternative would install a bike boulevard on Fremont Street from Indian Avenue to 2nd Avenue, upgrade 
streetlights on Humboldt Street from Peninsula Avenue to 5th Avenue and on Fremont Street from Indian 
Avenue to 2nd Avenue. This alternative would also remove a segment of the existing Class II bicycle facility on 
Humboldt Street from Indian Avenue to 2nd Avenue and restore approximately 100 parking spaces in that 
same segment. This alternative is estimated to lower vehicle speeds on Idaho Street from 25mph to 15-
18mph and lower peak-hour traffic volumes from 100–200 vehicles per hour to 50–120 vehicles per hour.
o
Cost Estimate: $1.46M (Includes Humboldt Street roadway restoration to pre-bike-lane condition, 
Fremont Street bike boulevard installation, streetlighting upgrades on both corridors as described, 
advancement of 15% concept designs to construction-ready documents, construction, inspection 
services, and contingency. Additionally, $273,000 would need to be appropriated back into the CDBG 
local account for removal of the Humboldt bike lanes, as described above. While this is an additional 
cost, it is funds that would be available for reinvestment within the City’s CDBG areas.)
 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Feedback
On December 10, 2025, City staff presented the Humboldt Street Bike Lane Alternatives Project (Phase II) to the 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission (Commission) for feedback and a recommendation to the City Council. The 
Agenda Report was substantially similar to this report (although this report was updated to address questions raised at 
and subsequent to that meeting) and staff presentation provided a comprehensive overview of the Project history and 
the City Council's direction from the February 3, 2025, meeting. The item received a total of 31 public comments during 
the Commission meeting. Comments reflected a range of perspectives, from strong emphasis on maintaining safety 
through retention of the bike lanes on Humboldt Street (21 commenters) to support for removing the bike lanes and 
restoring parking without implementing an alternative bicycle connection. Commissioner feedback was largely consistent 
in favoring retention of the bike lanes on Humboldt Street, while also advocating for enhancements such as improved 
street lighting and measures to provide additional parking relief for the North Central community. Following discussion, 
the Commission voted unanimously (5-0) to recommend Alternative #2: Retain the existing bike lanes on Humboldt Street 
(Keep-As-Is), with the addition of traffic calming measures, streetlighting upgrades, and exploration of a Residential 
Permit Parking Program to address community parking needs. 
Staff received various questions from Council members and the public after the Commission meeting. Staff provided a 
summary of questions and answers in Attachment 4. 
NEXT STEPS:
•
February 2, 2026 (this meeting): City Council to provide a recommendation on which alternative to advance as it 
relates to the Humboldt Street Bike Lanes. 
•
Depending upon the alternative selected, staff would return to City Council to appropriate funding for the 
70 of 368

--- page 71 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
selected alternative as soon as administratively feasible. 
•
After funding is appropriated, staff will begin implementation steps for the selected alternative, as appropriate.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact on this item as staff is seeking a recommendation from City Council.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result 
in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Idaho Street Alternative Final Concept Design 
Att 2 – Fremont Street Alternative Final Concept Design
Att 3 – Workshop 3 Survey Results, Streetlighting Pilot Survey Results, and Existing Bicycle Usage Detail Results
Att 4 – Humboldt Bike Lanes Question and Answers Post 12/10/2025 Commission Meeting
Att 5 – Public Comment
STAFF CONTACT
Jay Yu, Engineering Manager
jyu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7323
71 of 368

--- page 72 ---
INDIAN AVE
N IDAHO ST
E SANTA INEZ AVE
N HUMBOLDT ST
INDIAN AVE
MONTE DIABLO AVE
N IDAHO ST
TILTON AVE
N HUMBOLDT ST
S HUMBOLDT ST
CYPRESS AVE
2ND AVE
S IDAHO ST
HARDENED CENTERLINE
TRAFFIC CIRCLE
SPEED HUMPS
HIGH-VISIBILITY
CROSSWALKS
SPEED HUMPS
HARDENED CENTERLINE
HIGH-VISIBILITY
CROSSWALKS
SPEED HUMPS
SPEED HUMPS
BIKE BLVD SIGN
BIKE BLVD SIGN
BIKE BLVD SIGN
BIKE BLVD SIGN
HIGH-VISIBILITY
CROSSWALKS
TRAFFIC CIRCLE
PAINTED RED
CURB
BIKE BLVD
PAVEMENT
MARKINGS
PAINTED RED
CURB
PAINTED RED
CURB
PAINTED RED
CURB
UPGRADE FROM
2-WAY STOP TO
ALL-WAY STOP
UPGRADE FROM
2-WAY STOP TO
ALL-WAY STOP
UPGRADE FROM
2-WAY STOP TO
ALL-WAY STOP
RELOCATE EXISTING STOP SIGNS
FROM IDAHO STREET
APPROACHES TO TILTON AVE
APPROACHES
UPGRADE FROM
2-WAY STOP TO
ALL-WAY STOP
RELOCATE EXISTING STOP
SIGNS FROM IDAHO STREET
APPROACHES TO SANTA INEZ
AVE APPROACHES
BIKE BLVD
PAVEMENT
MARKINGS
BIKE BLVD
PAVEMENT
MARKINGS
BIKE BLVD
PAVEMENT
MARKINGS
NEW STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
HIGH-VISIBILITY
CROSSWALKS
HIGH-VISIBILITY
CROSSWALKS
HIGH-VISIBILITY
CROSSWALKS
NEW STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
PAINTED RED
CURB
DIRECTIONAL SIGN
(LEFT)
BIKE BLVD SIGN
BIKE BLVD SIGN
DIRECTIONAL SIGN
(LEFT)
BIKE BLVD SIGN
DIRECTIONAL SIGN
(RIGHT)
BIKE BLVD SIGN
WAYFINDING SIGN
WAYFINDING SIGN
BIKE BLVD SIGN
BIKE BLVD SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
DIRECTIONAL SIGN
(LEFT)
DIRECTIONAL SIGN
(RIGHT)
BIKE BLVD SIGN
PAINTED CURB
EXTENSIONS
HIGH-VISIBILITY
CROSSWALKS
DIRECTIONAL SIGN
(RIGHT)
DIRECTIONAL SIGN
(RIGHT)
HARDENED CENTERLINE
SPEED HUMPS
SPEED HUMPS
DIRECTIONAL SIGN
(RIGHT)
WAYFINDING
SIGN
0'
1 INCH = 
80'
40'
20'
8'
40 FT
sandis.net
build on.
North Humboldt Bike Lane Alternative Project
Proposed Concepts
EXISTING STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
L(*(N'
L(*(N'
1
TRAFFIC CIRCLE
2
3
BIKE BLVD PAVEMENT
MARKINGS
4
5
6
5
6
4
3
B
2
C
1
NEW RED CURB MARKING
(TO EMPHASIZE EXISTING
PARKING RESTRICTIONS)
BIKE BLVD
DIRECTIONAL SIGN
C
C
B
C
C
5
1
A
A
2
2
2
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
3
3
3
3
3
4
4
5
5
5
5
A
C
C
C
5
WHAT WE HEARD:
THE TRAFFIC CIRCLE DESIGNS WERE
THE MOST FAVORED AT THE MONTE
DIABLO AND THE INDIAN
INTERSECTIONS, BUT CONCERNS
WERE EXPRESSED OVER BEING ABLE
TO TURN AROUND THE CIRCLES IN
THE SMALL INTERSECTIONS.
IMPACT ON DESIGN:
THE TRAFFIC CIRCLES WERE
IMPLEMENTED INTO THE
CONCEPTS AND THE SIZE OF
THE CIRCLES WERE DESIGNED
TO ALLOW FOR TURNING
MOVEMENTS.
WHAT WE HEARD:
54% OF NORTH CENTRAL
RESIDENTS PREFERRED SPEED
HUMPS COMPARED TO 13% WHO
PREFERRED RUMBLE STRIPS.
IMPACT ON DESIGN:
THE CONCEPTS USE SPEED
HUMPS AS THE PRIMARY
SOURCE OF TRAFFIC CALMING
ON THE PROJECT CORRIDOR,
AND THE SIDE-STREETS.
WHAT WE HEARD:
THE NORTH CENTRAL
COMMUNITY LIKES SPEED
HUMPS, BUT RESIDENTS ON
IDAHO FELT THE ORIGINAL
DESIGN HAD TOO MANY.
IMPACT TO DESIGN:
THE NUMBER OF SPEED
HUMPS WERE REDUCED, BUT
ENOUGH WERE MAINTAINED
TO STILL CREATE A PREDICTED
SPEED WITHIN THE LIMITS OF
A COMFORTABLE CORRIDOR
FOR ALL USERS.
A
WAYFINDING SIGN
C
B
BIKE BLVD SIGN
SPEED HUMPS
HARDENED
CENTERLINE
HIGH-VISIBILITY
CROSSWALKS
PAINTED CURB
EXTENSIONS
IDAHO ROUTE
NOTE:
ALL RED CURB MARKINGS SHOWN ARE TO REINFORCE EXISTING PARKING
RESTRICTIONS, AND WILL NOT REMOVE ANY EXISTING PARKING.
MANY OF THESE RESTRICTIONS ARE A RESULT OF AB 413, WHICH RESTRICTS
PARKING ON THE APPROACH OF A CROSSWALK. THIS WAS SIGNED INTO LAW
AND ENACTED ON JANUARY 1, 2025. THE PARKING RESTRICTIONS INCREASE
SAFETY FOR ALL ROADWAY USERS (VEHICLES, BICYCLISTS, AND ESPECIALLY) AS
IT INCREASES VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS. THE RESTRICTIONS ESTABLISHED
BY THIS LAW ARE CONSIDERED TO BE IN EFFECT EVEN WHEN CURB MARKINGS
AND SIGNS ARE NOT PRESENT. THE MARKINGS PROPOSED IN THESE CONCEPTS
ARE INTENDED TO EMPHASIZE THE EXISTING RESTRICTIONS.

--- page 73 ---
N HUMBOLDT ST
INDIAN AVE
N GRANT ST
N FREMONT ST
E SANTA INEZ AVE
MONTE DIABLO AVE
N FREMONT ST
TILTON AVE
CYPRESS AVE
2ND AVE
S HUMBOLDT ST
S GRANT ST
2ND AVE
FIESTA GARDENS
INTERNATIONAL SCHOOL
A
A
1
1
1
1
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
2
2
2
2
3
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
5
5
SPEED HUMPS
BIKE BLVD
PAVEMENT
MARKINGS
HIGH-VISIBILITY
CROSSWALKS
SPEED HUMPS
BIKE BLVD
PAVEMENT
MARKINGS
HIGH-VISIBILITY
CROSSWALKS
PAINTED CURB EXTENSIONS
HARDENED CENTERLINE
SPEED HUMPS
HIGH-VISIBILITY CROSSWALKS
SPEED HUMPS
BIKE BLVD
PAVEMENT
MARKINGS
HIGH-VISIBILITY
CROSSWALKS
SLOW STREETS
PAINTED CURB
EXTENSIONS
BIKE BLVD SIGN
BIKE BLVD SIGN
BIKE BLVD SIGN
BIKE BLVD
PAVEMENT
MARKINGS
BIKE BLVD SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
BIKE BLVD SIGN
BIKE BLVD SIGN
BIKE BLVD SIGN
BIKE BLVD SIGN
BIKE BLVD SIGN
PAINTED RED CURB
BIKE BLVD SIGN
PAINTED RED CURB
BIKE BLVD SIGN
BIKE BLVD SIGN
BIKE BLVD SIGN
HIGH-VISIBILITY
CROSSWALKS
HIGH-VISIBILITY
CROSSWALKS
HIGH-VISIBILITY CROSSWALKS
HIGH-VISIBILITY
CROSSWALKS
HIGH-VISIBILITY
CROSSWALKS
CONTRAFLOW BIKE LANE
WITH FLEXIBLE
DELINEATORS SEPARATION
SLOW STREETS SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
PAINTED RED CURB
DIRECTIONAL SIGN
(RIGHT)
BIKE BLVD SIGN
DIRECTIONAL SIGN (LEFT)
WAYFINDING SIGN
PAINTED RED CURB
PAINTED RED CURB
DIRECTIONAL SIGN
(LEFT)
DIRECTIONAL SIGN
(RIGHT)
DIRECTIONAL SIGN
(RIGHT)
PAINTED RED CURB
PAINTED RED CURB
DIRECTIONAL SIGN
(RIGHT)
SLOW STREETS
SIGN
SLOW STREETS SIGN
DIRECTIONAL SIGN
(LEFT)
DIRECTIONAL SIGN
(RIGHT)
ONE-WAY
DO NOT ENTER
SIGNS
ONE-WAY
SIGNS
BIKE BLVD SIGN
BIKE BLVD SIGN
DIRECTIONAL SIGN
(RIGHT)
DIRECTIONAL SIGN
(LEFT)
C
B
A
B
B
B
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
D
D
D
B
D
4'
5'
5'
22' CURB TO
CURB WIDTH
34' ROW
2ND AVE.
S FREMONT ST. TO S. GRANT ST.
PARKING
10'
7'
SECTION A-A
sandis.net
build on.
North Humboldt Bike Lane Alternative Project
Proposed Concepts
1
BIKE BLVD PAVEMENT
MARKINGS
2
SPEED HUMPS
3
HARDENED
CENTERLINE
4
HIGH-VISIBILITY
CROSSWALKS
5
PAINTED CURB
EXTENSIONS
FREMONT ROUTE
ONE-WAY STREET CONVERSION
WITH CONTRAFLOW BIKE LANE
0'
1 INCH = 40 FT
8'
20'
40'
80'
EXISTING STOP SIGN
NEW STOP SIGN
L(*(ND
L(*(ND
BIKE BLVD
DIRECTIONAL SIGN
C
B
BIKE BLVD SIGN
D
SLOW STREETS SIGN
A
WAYFINDING SIGN
NOTE:
ALL RED CURB MARKINGS SHOWN ARE TO REINFORCE EXISTING PARKING RESTRICTIONS,
AND WILL NOT REMOVE ANY EXISTING PARKING.
MANY OF THESE RESTRICTIONS ARE A RESULT OF AB 413, WHICH RESTRICTS PARKING ON
THE APPROACH OF A CROSSWALK. THIS WAS SIGNED INTO LAW AND ENACTED ON JANUARY
1, 2025. THE PARKING RESTRICTIONS INCREASE SAFETY FOR ALL ROADWAY USERS
(VEHICLES, BICYCLISTS, AND ESPECIALLY) AS IT INCREASES VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS. THE
RESTRICTIONS ESTABLISHED BY THIS LAW ARE CONSIDERED TO BE IN EFFECT EVEN WHEN
CURB MARKINGS AND SIGNS ARE NOT PRESENT. THE MARKINGS PROPOSED IN THESE
CONCEPTS ARE INTENDED TO EMPHASIZE THE EXISTING RESTRICTIONS.
WHAT WE HEARD:
MOST NORTH CENTRAL
RESIDENTS (73%) AND
FREMONT RESIDENTS (57%)
FELT THAT THE NUMBER OF
SPEED HUMPS ON FREMONT
WERE ABOUT RIGHT.
IMPACT ON DESIGN:
WE HAVE MAINTAINED THE
NUMBER OF SPEED HUMPS
ON FREMONT FROM THE
PREVIOUS ITERATION OF THE
CONCEPTS IN ORDER TO
MEET THE NEED DESIRED
REDUCED SPEEDS.
WHAT WE HEARD:
DURING THE SECOND PUBLIC
MEETING, WE HEARD MANY
CONCERNS ABOUT A LACK OF
VISIBILITY AT DRIVEWAYS
DUE TO PARKED CARS,
CREATING A SENSE OF, AND
POTENTIAL FOR, DANGEROUS
RIDING CONDITIONS FOR
BICYCLISTS.
IMPACT ON DESIGN:
THE DESIGN INCLUDES BIKE
BOULEVARD PAVEMENT
MARKINGS MORE CENTERED
IN THE ROADWAY,
ENCOURAGING BICYCLISTS
TO RIDE IN THE CENTER OF
THE CORRIDOR. THIS WILL
MAKE THEM MORE VISIBLE
TO VEHICLES EXITING
DRIVEWAYS. THIS WILL HAVE
MORE VISIBILITY THAN EVEN
THE BIKE LANES ON
HUMBOLDT, WHICH HAVE
REPORTED TO HAVE THE
SAME ISSUES WHERE
PARKING IS ADJACENT TO
DRIVEWAYS.
WHAT WE HEARD:
MOST NORTH CENTRAL
RESIDENTS (71%) AND
FREMONT RESIDENTS (75%)
FELT NUETRAL TO VERY
SUPPORTIVE OF THE
CURRENT CONCEPT DESIGN
FOR THE MONTE DIABLO
INTERSECTIONS.
IMPACT ON DESIGN:
WE HAVE MAINTAINED THE
SAME DESIGN AS THE
PREVIOUS CONCEPT
ITERATIONS, AND ADDED
MORE DETAILED ELEMENTS.
NEW RED CURB MARKIN
(TO EMPHASIZE EXISTING
PARKING RESTRICTIONS)

--- page 74 ---
Attachment 3 – Workshop 3, Streetlighting Pilot Survey and 
Existing Bicycle Usage Detailed Results 
Page 1 of 5 
 
 
Table 1: In-Person Community Feedback Survey Results 
  
Q#1 Do you support 
the Idaho Street 
Alternative? 
Q#2 Do you support 
the Fremont Street 
Alternative? 
Q#3 Do you support 
keeping the bike lanes on 
Humboldt Street? 
 
Yes
No
Yes
No
Yes
No
All North Central Residents
35% (11)
65% (20)
30% (9)
70% (21)
65% (20)
35% (11)
Humboldt Street Residents
0% (0)
100% (2)
0% (0)
100% (2)
100% (2)
0% (0)
Idaho Street Residents
67% (2)
33% (1)
0% (0)
100% (2)
33% (1)
67% (2)
Fremont Street Residents
21% (3)
79% (11)
8% (1)
92% (12)
77% (10)
23% (3)
Other Communities
33% (2)
67% (4)
33% (2)
67% (4)
67% (4)
33% (2)
  
Table 2: In-Person Priority Ranking Results 
  
Max 
Possible 
Points 
Idaho Street 
Alternative 
Fremont Street 
Alternative 
Keep Bike Lanes on 
Humboldt 
 
Rank
Points
Rank
Points
Rank
Points
All North Central Residents
72
#2
43
#3
36
#1
65
Humboldt Street Residents
6
#2
4
#3
2
#1
6
Idaho Street Residents
6
#3
3
#2
4
#1
5
Fremont Street Residents
30
#2
20
#2
20
#1
28
Other Communities
15
#2
9
#3
8
#1
13
Note: 1 = most preferred and 3 = least preferred; #1 = 3 points, #2 = 2 points, #3 = 1 point
 
 
 
74 of 368

--- page 75 ---
Attachment 3 – Workshop 3, Streetlighting Pilot Survey and 
Existing Bicycle Usage Detailed Results 
Page 2 of 5 
 
 
Table 3: Online Community Feedback Survey Results 
  
Q#1 Do you support 
the Idaho Street 
Alternative? 
Q#2 Do you support 
the Fremont Street 
Alternative? 
Q#3 Do you support 
keeping the bike lanes on 
Humboldt Street? 
 
Yes
No
Yes
No
Yes
No
All North Central Residents
27% (27)
73% (72)
33% (33)
67% (66)
73% (72)
27% (27)
Humboldt Street Residents
22% (9)
78% (32)
17% (7)
83% (34)
74% (29)
26% (10)
Idaho Street Residents
45% (5)
55% (6)
55% (6)
45% (5)
56% (5)
44% (4)
Fremont Street Residents
23% (3)
77% (10)
46% (6)
54% (7)
77% (10)
23% (3)
Other Communities
30% (36)
70% (84)
29% (35)
71% (85)
85% (102)
15% (18)
  
Table 3A - Online Community Feedback Survey Results
(Including duplicate IP Addresses) 
 
 
 
  
Q#1 Do you support 
the Idaho Street 
Alternative? 
Q#2 Do you support 
the Fremont Street 
Alternative? 
Q#3 Do you support 
keeping the bike lanes on 
Humboldt Street? 
 
Yes
No
Yes
No
Yes
No
All North Central Residents
25% (30)
75% (91)
31% (38)
69% (83)
74% (90)
26% (31)
Humboldt Street Residents
17% (9)
83% (45)
13% (7)
87% (47)
81% (42)
19% (10)
Idaho Street Residents
38% (5)
62% (8)
46% (6)
54% (7)
64% (7)
36% (4)
Fremont Street Residents
12.5% (3)
87.5% (21)
25% (6)
75% (18)
87.5% (21)
12.5% (3)
Other Communities
28% (45)
72% (113)
29% (46)
71% (112)
85% (134)
15% (24)
 
 
 
75 of 368

--- page 76 ---
Attachment 3 – Workshop 3, Streetlighting Pilot Survey and 
Existing Bicycle Usage Detailed Results 
Page 3 of 5 
 
 
Table 4: Online Priority Ranking Results 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Max 
Possible 
Points 
Idaho Street 
Alternative 
Fremont Street 
Alternative 
Keep Bike Lanes on 
Humboldt 
 
Rank
Points
Rank
Points
Rank
Points
All North Central Residents
276
#2
183
#3
169
#1
242
Humboldt Street Residents
117
#2
75
#3
57
#1
102
Idaho Street Residents
27
#2
18
#3
17
#1
19
Fremont Street Residents
42
#3
22
#2
26
#1
30
Other Communities
360
#2
232
#3
178
#1
310
Note: 1 = most preferred and 3 = least preferred; #1 = 3 points, #2 = 2 points, #3 = 1 point
 
Table 4A: Online Priority Ranking Results 
(Including duplicate IP addresses) 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Max 
Possible 
Points 
Idaho Street 
Alternative 
Fremont Street 
Alternative 
Keep Bike Lanes on 
Humboldt 
 
Rank
Points
Rank
Points
Rank
Points
All North Central Residents
342
#2
218
#3
208
#1
306
Humboldt Street Residents
156
#2
98
#3
73
#1
141
Idaho Street Residents
33
#3
20
#2
21
#1
25
Fremont Street Residents
75
#3
40
#2
41
#1
63
Other Communities
411
#2
260
#3
206
#1
356
Note: 1 = most preferred and 3 = least preferred; #1 = 3 points, #2 = 2 points, #3 = 1 point
 
 
76 of 368

--- page 77 ---
Attachment 3 – Workshop 3, Streetlighting Pilot Survey and 
Existing Bicycle Usage Detailed Results 
Page 4 of 5 
 
Table 5: Mailed Community Feedback Survey Results 
 
 
 
  
Q#1 Do you support the 
Idaho Street 
Alternative? 
Q#2 Do you support the 
Fremont Street 
Alternative? 
Q#3 Do you support 
keeping the bike lanes 
on Humboldt Street? 
 
Yes
No
Yes
No
Yes
No
All North Central Residents
44% (64)
55% (79)
47% (68)
53% (78)
32% (49)
68% (96)
Humboldt Street Residents
42.5% (17)
57.5% (23) 
57.5% (23) 
42.5% (17) 
34% (14) 
66% (27) 
Idaho Street Residents
8% (1)
92% (11)
50% (6)
50% (6)
33% (4)
67% (8)
Fremont Street Residents
50% (9)
50% (9)
21% (4)
79% (15)
41% (7)
59% (10)
  
Table 6: Mailed Priority Ranking Results 
  
Max 
Possible 
Points 
Idaho Street 
Alternative 
Fremont Street 
Alternative 
Keep Bike Lanes on 
Humboldt 
 
Rank
Points
Rank
Points
Rank
Points
All North Central Residents
276
#3
176
#2
179
#1
197
Humboldt Street Residents
84
#3
51
#1
59
#2
58
Idaho Street Residents
33
#3
14
#1
27
#2
25
Fremont Street Residents
42
#2
30
#3
19
#1
35
Note: 1 = most preferred and 3 = least preferred; #1 = 3 points, #2 = 2 points, #3 = 1 point
 
Table 7: Pedestrian Scale Lighting Survey Results 
Existing Lighting 
High Brightness 
No Preference 
North Central Residents
25% (16) 
64% (40) 
11% (7) 
Other San Mateo Communities
38% (3) 
62% (5) 
0% (0) 
Overall
27% (19) 
63% (45) 
10% (7) 
 
Table 8: Roadway Lighting (Cobrahead) Survey Results 
Existing Lighting 
Medium Brightness 
High Brightness 
No Preference 
North Central Residents
16% (10) 
28% (18) 
46% (29) 
10% (6) 
Other San Mateo Communities
12% (1) 
25% (2) 
50% (4) 
13% (1) 
Overall
16% (11) 
28% (20) 
46% (33) 
10% (7) 
 
77 of 368

--- page 78 ---
Attachment 3 – Workshop 3, Streetlighting Pilot Survey and 
Existing Bicycle Usage Detailed Results 
Page 5 of 5 
 
 
Table 9: Existing Bicycle Trips Per Intersection (Weekday AM+PM Peak Hours) 
 
Peninsula 
Ave.
E. Poplar 
Ave. 
Indian 
Ave. 
Monte 
Diablo Ave. 
Tilton 
Ave. 
2nd 
Ave. 
3rd Ave.
Humboldt Street
41
21
59
63
68
60
31
Idaho Street
N/A
N/A
11
63
32
18
N/A
Fremont Street
N/A
N/A
21
67
47
91
13
 
78 of 368

--- page 79 ---
ATTACHMENT 4
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS REGARDING HUMBOLDT BIKE LANES ALTERNATIVES
POST 12/10/25 SUSTAINABILITY AND INFRASTRUCTURE COMMISSION MEETING
Background
City staff presented the Humboldt Bike Lanes Alternatives to the Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commission on December 10, 2025, seeking feedback in advance of the 
upcoming City Council meeting on February 2, 2026. 
Since the meeting, several questions have been raised by Council members and members of 
the public. For any questions not directly addressed by information in the Agenda Report, staff 
have consolidated those questions and corresponding responses below to provide clarity and 
ensure consistent information is available to the public and decision-makers.
Questions and Answers 
1.
It was mentioned in the 12/10/2025 commission meeting that City staff removed 
duplicate IP addresses from the Workshop 3 – Survey. What was the justification 
for this?
•
Answer: City staff removed duplicate IP addresses from the Workshop 3 Survey 
results to help ensure the integrity and accuracy of the public input process. 
There have been multiple concerns raised from the public about potential 
attempts by individuals to submit duplicate or fraudulent responses to skew the 
data. Removing duplicates based on IP addresses is a standard practice in 
online surveys to prevent one person or entity from artificially inflating results, 
while still preserving legitimate unique submissions. This approach is consistent 
with the pre-paid mailed survey process, which limits responses to one per 
household. This step was taken transparently to maintain the reliability of the 
survey data presented to the Commission. However, in order to understand what 
the impact the duplicate IP addresses may have had on the findings, staff have 
also included, as Tables 3A and 4A of Attachment 3, the results without these 
surveys removed. The findings were similar before and after the screening of 
duplicate IP addresses. 
2.
What action items from the 12/10/2025 Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission meeting are staff following up on? 
•
Answer: Staff are incorporating commission feedback into the agenda report and 
presentation to City Council in February 2026. At the February 2026 meeting, 
staff will be asking City Council for further direction given both community and 
commission feedback.  
3.
Has staff considered converting streets in North Central into one-way streets? 
How feasible would this be? What is the cost? What are the potential downstream 
impacts by converting one street to one way, against the broader area etc.? 
79 of 368

--- page 80 ---
•
Answer: From the City’s outreach on both the North Central Complete Streets 
Plan (NCCSP) as well as our recent outreach effort, conversion of one-way 
streets is an idea of potential interest to the community for East-West direction 
(but not North-South direction) streets. Conversion of streets to one-way is 
feasible but is not a concept that can be studied lightly and not without significant 
cost. It would take a complex traffic and circulation study to evaluate the cost and 
potential downstream impacts to North Central and the surrounding 
neighborhoods. The cost to convert Humboldt to a one-way street could exceed 
$10 million to cover the cost of the traffic and circulation study, new traffic 
signals, revised signage and striping, and community outreach/engagement.  As 
such, staff believes this option is financially infeasible.
4.
There was a comment from one of the commissioners regarding asking elected 
officials at the state level to follow up and see if the DMV parking lot can be used 
for overnight parking. Are we following up with state representatives? 
o
Answer: Though we heard from one of the commissioners that they would like to 
pursue this further with state representatives, we have heard strong feedback 
from the community when vetting this further that the DMV parking lot is too far to 
walk from Humboldt Street and the 6AM exit timeframe is highly restrictive. DMV 
representatives have also been clear and responsive about their requirements for 
overnight parking, without the need to escalate to state representatives. These 
requirements are summarized in the Agenda Report to the SIC and the 
presentation: 
▪
Leases will be on a non-exclusive basis; agreements are negotiated at 
market rate and limit the types of use and hours of use. Staff often arrive 
around 6AM so vehicles will need to be out of the lot before 6AM. 
Insurance as well as daily routine cleanup will be required.
Staff does not believe this meets the needs of the community and that further 
exploration is not warranted.
5.
There is confusion regarding the feasibility of implementing a residential parking 
permit program in the North Central area. Can the City confirm its current official 
policy on residential parking permits, and if a permit parking program can be used 
in North Central? 
•
Answer: City Council can direct staff to return with amendments to the existing 
permit parking program to meet the needs of North Central or create a new 
program. A permit parking program wouldn’t add parking capacity to North 
Central, but it would offer residents a “leg up” in finding parking amongst 
available spaces. Staff anticipate some additional vetting and community 
outreach would be necessary to confirm the extents and elements of the permit 
parking program. Please note that vehicles are not permitted to park in a bike 
lane, and the permit parking program would not affect this. Parking spaces would 
only be allocated from legal parking spaces. 
80 of 368

--- page 81 ---
6.
Would it be possible to get all the public comments made to City Council on this 
topic over the last 12 months?
•
Answer: Public comments submitted for the 2/3/25 City Council Meeting and 
12/10/25 Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Meeting are included as 
part of the agenda packets for these meetings (links are below). Any other public 
comments written over the past 12 months not included as part of these 
meetings will be included as an attachment to the agenda packet for the 
February 2026 City Council meeting. 
7.
Can you provide a list of all recorded meetings that have taken place from when 
the bike lane was voted on (i.e. previous council meetings), through to any 
discussions that have happened to the Council going forward?
•
Answer: Links are provided below. The gray highlighted rows weren’t exclusively 
about the North Central Bike Lanes Project, but did include discussion of this 
project. 
 
December 10, 
2025
S&I
Humbolt Bike Lanes 
Alternatives – Update
HTML Packet Link
July 9, 2025
S&I
Bicycle and Pedestrian 
Projects Update
HTML Packet Link
February 3, 2025
Council 
Meeting
North Central Bike Lanes 
Project — Direction
HTML Packet Link
March 20, 2023
Council 
Meeting
 Complete Streets Plan - 
Introduction and Community 
Engagement 
HTML Packet Link
February 22, 
2022
Council 
Meeting
North Central Bike Lanes - 
Update 
HTML Packet Link
February 9, 2022
S&I
North Central Bike Lanes - 
Update 
HTML Packet Link
April 6, 2020
Council 
Meeting
2020 Bicycle Master Plan – 
Adoption
HTML Packet Link
For the agenda packets, use our public meeting portal at: 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3971/Agendas-Minutes-Public-Meeting-Portal
For any Legislative Record, use this link: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4588/Search-
Legislative-Records 
81 of 368

--- page 82 ---
8.
Has the City considered removing the sidewalks on Humboldt Street to create 
more space? Is there any state law that prohibits this? 
•
Answer: Removing sidewalk is financially infeasible. It will involve the demolition 
of the existing sidewalk, planter strip and relocation of the overhead utility poles. 
This option is estimated to cost over $2.5M for construction and that is just for the 
2nd Avenue to Indian Avenue and does not include utility relocation costs. No 
specific state law prohibits sidewalk removal in general; however, such actions 
must comply with applicable California codes (e.g., Americans with Disabilities 
Act requirements for accessible pathways, California Vehicle Code, and local 
complete streets policies). Given the substantial financial implications and the 
City's current budget constraints, staff does not recommend pursuing this 
approach.
9.
Did the project team collect data on existing speeds on Humboldt? Fremont and 
Idaho? 
As part of the Humboldt Bike Lanes Alternative project, the project team collected speed 
data on Humboldt Street, Idaho Street and Fremont Street to determine appropriate 
calming measures to reduce speeds on roadways to make it suitable for a bicycle 
boulevard. The existing speeds for the three roadways from Indian Avenue to 2nd 
Avenue are shown below:
i.
Humboldt: 24 – 30mph 
ii.
Idaho Street: 23-25mph
iii.
Fremont Street: 23-26mph
10. What’s the latest on partial restoration of parking? What would that look like?
•
Answer: The direction provided by Council on February 3, 2025 was to explore, 
through a community vetting process, whether bike boulevards from Indian to 2nd 
Avenue on either Idaho or Fremont could provide equivalent safety and 
connectivity to the existing bike lanes. If implemented, this could restore 
approximately 100 parking spaces. There is no way to restore parking on 
Humboldt without removing the bike lanes on Humboldt Street.
11. Why didn’t we consider Amphlett Blvd for a Bike Lane? Did City Staff ever look at 
this as an option? 
•
Answer: City Council direction from February 3, 2025, specifically focused 
exploration on Idaho Street and Fremont Street as potential bike boulevard 
alternatives. Staff prioritized these streets accordingly during community 
outreach efforts. During the first community workshop in June 2025, participants 
were invited to suggest additional roadways for consideration. While there was 
no broad consensus on alternatives, a few small groups and some survey 
respondents expressed interest in Amphlett Boulevard as a bike boulevard 
82 of 368

--- page 83 ---
option. In response, staff conducted a high-level evaluation of Amphlett Boulevard's 
suitability for a bike boulevard. Key findings include: 
o
The street is highly commercial, with frequent large-vehicle access from 
driveways. 
o
It is farther from Humboldt Street (reducing direct connectivity). 
o
It serves as a designated truck route. 
o
Average speeds from 2nd Avenue to Indian Avenue are approximately 36 
mph, well above the recommended maximum of 20 mph for bike 
boulevards per guidelines from the National Association of City 
Transportation Officials (NACTO) and American Association of State 
Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO).
Due to these factors—particularly the elevated vehicle speeds—staff determined 
that Amphlett Boulevard is not a viable route for a bike boulevard. Regarding 
dedicated bike lanes (rather than a bike boulevard), this would require removal of 
a significant number of on-street parking spaces (approximately 90), rendering it 
nonviable as an alternative to the Humboldt Street bike lanes.
12. How much would it cost to build a parking garage at MLK Center? 
•
Answer: A parking garage at MLK Center is not financially feasible given the 
City’s budget constraints. For context, the recently complete Kiku Parking 
Garage, which is an above-ground parking garage in downtown San Mateo, cost 
approximately $25M. Presuming a subsurface garage beneath the playing fields 
at the King Center, costs would likely be even greater.  
83 of 368

--- page 84 ---
1
From:
Martin McTaggart
Sent:
Wednesday, January 28, 2026 8:28 AM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
FW: Support for Keeping the Humboldt Street Bike Lanes
 
 
From: MARIA LUCILLE ALEGRIA 
>  
Sent: Wednesday, January 28, 2026 8:12 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Support for Keeping the Humboldt Street Bike Lanes 
 
Dear Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
I am a resident of San Mateo and live in the Parkside neighborhood. I am also a teacher at San Mateo 
High School, and I regularly commute by bicycle using the Humboldt Street bike lanes. I am writing to 
express my strong support for keeping these bike lanes in place. 
As part of this discussion, I reviewed the proposed alternatives and attempted to ride to work using Idaho 
Street instead of Humboldt. That experience made it very clear why the Humboldt bike lanes are so 
important. Idaho Street felt incredibly unsafe: there was not enough space for two cars to pass 
comfortably, and I frequently found myself squeezed between moving vehicles. At one point, I felt forced 
onto the sidewalk simply to protect my own safety. This is not a viable or safe option for cyclists, nor is it 
fair to pedestrians. 
The Humboldt Street bike lanes provide a critical, safer route for people like me who rely on them to 
commute. They make it possible for residents to choose alternatives to driving, which benefits traffic 
flow, public health, and the environment. Removing them would push cyclists onto streets that are not 
designed to safely accommodate both cars and bikes, increasing risk for everyone. 
I understand that parking is a real concern in many parts of San Mateo. However, I do not believe the bike 
lanes are the cause of this problem. Parking shortages are largely the result of zoning changes that 
allowed multi-family housing on single-family lots without requiring sufficient parking. Eliminating bike 
lanes is a short-sighted response to a much larger and more complex issue—one that is tied to housing 
policy and affordability, not bicycle infrastructure. 
I respectfully urge the City Council to keep the Humboldt Street bike lanes and to continue prioritizing 
safe, 
 
Malu Alegria 
84 of 368

--- page 85 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>
Sent:
Thursday, January 29, 2026 12:26 PM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
FW: Humboldt Street Decision
 
 
From: TJ Blair 
  
Sent: Wednesday, January 28, 2026 9:30 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Nicole Blair 
 
Subject: Humboldt Street Decision 
 
  
Honorable Mayor and City Council Members, 
 
Please fix the bike lane mistake on Humboldt Street and restore parking now. 
 
There's no shame in fixing something you didn't break. San Mateo's North Central 
neighborhood has been the victim of more than a century of neglect and poor planning 
choices by previous administrations. The neighborhood continues to suffer from the 
legacy of exclusionary land use and zoning policies and the history of segregation in our 
city is reflected in demographic disparities, economic differences, and inadequate 
investment in infrastructure compared to more affluent neighborhoods. The high-density 
population coupled with poor planning has meant that the area had a lack of adequate 
parking even before the bike lane project. For example, we have churches, businesses, 
and multi-family residences that have no or very little dedicated parking. We have two- 
and three-bedroom homes that have a dozen people (or more) living in them. The 
current City Council didn't create these problems, but you have a responsibility to 
mitigate them.  
 
The decision to expend HUD CDBG funding on a project that removed parking for 
hundreds of residents and benefits a very few, mostly affluent people who don't even 
live in the neighborhood was wrong. In principle, most people in the neighborhood are 
not opposed to bike lanes, but this would not have been the highest priority for us -more 
like a "nice to have". The fact that a prior Council voted to impose the parking removal 
on us at the wee hours of the morning, in a vote that was not properly on the meeting 
agenda, and was done over the objection of many residents in the neighborhood was 
bad enough. That the project used funds that would have improved the quality of life 
had they been used for their intended purpose only adds insult to injury. YOU HAVE THE 
OPPORTUNITY To RIGHT THESE WRONGS NOW. 
 
85 of 368

--- page 86 ---
2
In addition to this sad history, the city has frequently relied on incomplete and 
misleading data to support its choices. The counts of bicycle usage of the new bike lanes 
was so sloppy and poorly thought out as to be laughable. Anyone living or traveling 
through the corridor on a regular basis can tell you that the bike lanes are very rarely 
used by anyone. If these bike lanes were being used by residents of the neighborhood 
on a regular basis in a sustained way, we may be having a different conversation. But 
because they serve almost no benefit to local residents, your choice should be easy. 
CHOOSE INVESTMENTS IN INFRASTRUCTURE THAT WILL RECTIFY NEGLECT AND 
DISPARITIES, NOT AMPLIFY THEM. 
 
The fact that some of the loudest proponents of this bike lane project are not residents 
of the North Central neighborhood, or even of our city, should give you pause. The 
Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition (SVBC) who pushed for this project, for example, are 
mostly not local and not familiar with our local issues or history-but they are skilled at 
manipulating local politics to have their will imposed. They are people with a single 
purpose and often have blinders on about what else is important besides bikable and 
walkable communities which, while a laudable goal, does little to improve the quality of 
life for people who cannot walk or bike to work and are more concerned with day-to-day 
living than "nice to haves". Unbroken sidewalks, adequate street lighting, more and 
safer parks, pedestrian safety, more convenient parking -- all are things we would want 
before a bike lane. But the SVBC (and others) have shown through their disingenuous 
arguments that they don't care about anything besides having more bike lanes. LISTEN 
TO RESIDENTS OF OUR CITY OVER OUTSIDE SPECIAL INTERESTS. 
 
The misleading arguments that have come from SVBC members and others have made 
outrageous and insulting claims. They frame parking as "vehicle storage" that only 
benefits car owners while forgetting that our streets and roads were paid for by gas 
taxes and many residents of our overcrowded neighborhood have few choices. They 
imply that residents of North Central are acting as if they are "entitled" to the parking in 
front of their homes which is a straw man designed to make us look selfish and 
completely misunderstands the living conditions in the community. And finally, 
advocates hint that the majority of residents in the neighborhood support the bike lanes 
which was not true when they were installed and unlikely to be true now. 
 
Bicycling advocates love the safety argument. But safety measures on our streets are 
not "once size fits all" and, in fact, it is known that bike lanes can reduce safety in some 
contexts. Advocates argue that children will be unsafe if the lanes are removed but, in 
the years since the bike lanes were installed, I've never seen a child (and have seen 
very few adults) using the lanes. Anecdotal, but it points to a likelihood that the safety 
gained by the lanes is marginal. Safety improvements should be data-driven, not 
aspirational and we really don't have trustable data either on the safety of the area 
before or after the bike lane installation. Safety can be improved in many ways: speed 
reduction measures, stop sign daylighting, lower speeds with ENFORCEMENT, and 
shared streets (bike boulevards). Cyclist behavior is also a driver of accidents and 
something cyclists rarely talk about and I think we've all seen cyclists so blatantly 
disregarding traffic rules that it seems to be an epidemic. 
 
One of my children was hit by a car while walking in a crosswalk in our neighborhood 
86 of 368

--- page 87 ---
3
when he was a teen. He was only mildly injured but the accident was not caused by lack 
of vicinity due to parking. Poor street lighting, and lax traffic enforcement in the area 
were likely culprits. The point being that, had the money spent on this luxury amenity 
for a few affluent people been properly spent on the kinds of projects the neighborhood 
needs, we would be safer. Cycling advocates ignore this inconvenient fact. Additionally, 
the removal of parking has created secondary safety risks including: 
 
Drivers circle longer looking for parking creating more congestion and distraction. 
 
Residents double-parking, blocking sightlines, or stopping in travel lanes. 
 
Elderly or disabled residents may walk farther, increasing fall or injury risk. 
 
STOP RELYING ON INCOMPLETE/MISLEADING DATA AND SCARE TACTICS.  
 
 
Yes, it will cost some money to right this wrong. But it's high time to rip this Band-Aid 
off and not fall victim to defective sunk costs arguments. While the city's failure to act 
over the last several years might not bother anyone else, residents of North Central 
continue to be severely affected and have their property values impacted on a daily 
basis. As you know, the full cost of the initial project did not come primarily from local 
tax revenue - so arguments stating a "loss" of that full amount are incorrect. Sure, it's a 
bad look to have to re-do something so visible and expensive, but at this point, what are 
we waiting for? The project was poorly planned, poorly implemented, badly 
communicated, not fully thought through, and based on faulty data and assumptions. 
I would love our city to be safer, more walkable, bike-friendly, and comfortable for all.  Dedicated bike 
lanes are certainly a component of such a vision and, in many applications, are important improvements 
to the transportation infrastructure.  This project has not been an example of that because it was ill-
conceived, rushed, and pushed into being by people with an extremist agenda who lack connection to or 
understanding of the impacted community. 
 
RESTORE PARKING NOW. 
  
Thank you for your service to our city.   
  
Todd Blair 
. 
San Mateo, 
 
 
 
87 of 368

--- page 88 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart
Sent:
Tuesday, February 18, 2025 2:56 PM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
FW: Bike Lane issue in North Central
 
 
From: Brown, Brenda 
  
Sent: Tuesday, February 18, 2025 1:56 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: 
 
Subject: Bike Lane issue in North Central 
 
February 18, 2025 
 
To Whom It May Concern, 
My name is Brenda Brown, I am 79 years old, born 
and raised in San Mateo. I am a homeowner and 
have lived in North Central all of my life.  I am writing 
to you regarding the bike lane issue facing our 
community.  
You have no idea how frustrating it is to come home 
and there is no space to park my car especially 
when relatives and friends come to visit me, and 
they have nowhere to park. People from other 
neighborhoods park their cars or trucks some for 
88 of 368

--- page 89 ---
2
days, I assume because they have nowhere to park 
because the bike lanes are taking up parking 
spaces. I have even witnessed people drive up with 
one car, move that parked car and replace with the 
car they drove up in. 
As a taxpayer and a property taxpayer I would urge 
you to reevaluate the bike lane issue in North 
Central and to eliminate the parking issue that faces 
our community. 
Thank you for your consideration. 
Brenda Brown 
 
89 of 368

--- page 90 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart
Sent:
Wednesday, January 28, 2026 7:35 AM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Christina Horrisberger; Alex Khojikian
Subject:
Fw: Bike Lanes
 
 
Get Outlook for iOS 
From: joyce burns 
 
Sent: Tuesday, January 27, 2026 6:11:52 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Bike Lanes  
  
Attention, Mayor Lorraine and City Council members.  I was unable to attend last night’s gathering regarding 
removal of the bike lanes in North Central San Mateo.  These lanes must be removed and removed before 
something disastrous happens. 
 
1)  The streets are too narrow to accommodate bike lanes and yet allow normal use for vehicles and drivers, 
walkers and delivery vehicles.  Blocked roads cause frustration and unsafe movement  of pedestrians, bikers, 
vehicles. 
2)  The bike lanes are causing congestion, preventing normal transit.  Risky driving behavior occurs when lanes are 
blocked. 
3)  The bike lanes are interfering with normal parking patterns which causes hardship for the residents—especially 
seniors who need to have parking near their homes due to mobility handicaps and carrying big, bulky, heavy items 
and parents trying to herd young children 
and carry burdens.   
Vehicles that are parked away from the owners’ residences are more like to be broken into causing more crime 
and damage. 
4)  Bike lanes are causing double parking which delays traffic and causes unsafe driving patterns. Double parking 
also causes bike riders to move into traffic where there are not expected and not being watched for—someone will 
get badly injured. 
 
We need safe places for bikers, but this must be balanced out by the need for the safety and conveniences of the 
great majority of vehicles that most people rely upon. 
THE NEEDS OF THE MAJORITY MUST COME FIRST! 
 
Please, City Council take care of the needs of the great majority of San Mateo’s residents.  Act now for North 
Central San Mateo!   And consider the chaos caused by the North Central bike lanes before putting bike lanes in 
other areas of San Mateo that were not properly planned to accommodate bike lanes. 
 
Joyce and Leo Burns 
 
90 of 368

--- page 91 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart
Sent:
Tuesday, January 20, 2026 6:46 AM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
Fw: Bike Lanes once again
 
 
Get Outlook for iOS 
From: michael caggiano 
 
Sent: Monday, January 19, 2026 10:37 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash 
<ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez 
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle Cwirko-Godycki 
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Bike Lanes once again 
  
Dear Boardmembers, 
 
Here we are again. Well, I will just reiterate what I advocated for, some years back. Restoration of the 
lost parking for Humboldt should proceed apace. Bikes even with striped lanes are still not a safe 
place for riders when the speed differential with car traffic is as great as it is, on the present arterials 
like Humboldt, Delaware and Poplar and even San Mateo Drive. Using parallel side streets where 
that speed differential is far smaller is the way to go.  
 
    In addition, I still think we can persuade the North Central community to think seriously about more 
"one way side streets" to enable riders to have more space to share with the cars that will always be 
with us, but both cars and bikes would have more breathing room all around. The excuse I've gotten 
over the years is that folks will speed more. Well, there's nothing to stop that behavior everywhere 
else in town as well. So, I think the additional space is a good trade off, in my opinion. 
 
    Oh, and I nearly forgot. Get rid of those Bulb-outs (Bicycle Demolition Devices) as they are 
inherently dangerous for bikers. Another bad idea to begin with. Well, we all make mistakes so don't 
feel bad. 
 
Cheers all, and I hope you don't spend another long long night. 
 
Your neighbor, Mike Caggiano 
North Central 
91 of 368

--- page 92 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart
Sent:
Monday, May 5, 2025 10:21 AM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Deryk Daquigan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
FW: North central bike lanes
FYI. 
 
From: 
  
Sent: Monday, May 5, 2025 9:02 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob Newsom 
<rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle Cwirko-Godycki 
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: North central bike lanes 
 
Dear all Councilmembers, 
 
I'm just making a short and previously mentioned suggestion. Looking at North Central as a unique 
creature in the City, I have two reoccurring ideas. One being keeping high volume and relatively high 
speed vehicles separate from bicycle traffic, and the other being converting all the side streets in our 
area to "one way", leaving the main streets as they are WITHOUT encouraging bike traffic on them. 
 
That would leave bikers to simply share the road on side streets and have their option of going 
against or with traffic. I'd think it better to rely on two pairs of eyeballs than one. Plus, the speed 
differential is much reduced as autos don't travel as fast on side streets (hopefully). So there you 
have it.  
Safe streets and no loss of parking. 
 
 
Thanks for your attention. 
 
Regards all, Mike Caggiano 
HANCSM Boardmember 
92 of 368

--- page 93 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Case, Daniel (Euler Hermes USA) <
>
Sent:
Friday, February 7, 2025 5:38 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Lisa Diaz Nash; Adam Loraine; Rob Newsom; Danielle Cwirko-
Godycki; Nicole Fernandez; Clerk; Planning Commission; Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission; PR Commission Mailbox; City Mgr
Cc:
D C
Subject:
Strong Opposition to Bike Lane Removal – Prioritize Safety and Sustainability
Internal 
 
Dear San Mateo City Council, 
I am writing to express my strong opposition to the council’s decision to remove the Humboldt Street bike lanes in favor 
of restoring parking spaces. This decision is a step backward for the city’s commitment to safety, sustainability, and 
equitable transportation access. 
The bike lanes were installed as part of a federally funded safety initiative in response to serious traffic incidents, 
including a tragic crash that left a cyclist in a coma. Removing them not only disregards the safety of cyclists and 
pedestrians but also undermines efforts to create a more sustainable and accessible city for all residents—especially 
those without cars, who make up a significant percentage of the North Central neighborhood’s population. 
Additionally, the proposed alternative—a "bike boulevard" without designated lanes—fails to provide meaningful 
protection for cyclists. Shared roadways do not offer the same level of safety as dedicated infrastructure, and removing 
bike lanes will discourage active transportation at a time when cities across the country are investing in more bike-
friendly solutions, not fewer. 
Rather than spending taxpayer dollars to dismantle existing, functional infrastructure, I urge the council to prioritize 
safe, multimodal transportation options that serve all residents, not just those with cars. San Mateo has an opportunity 
to lead by example, fostering a city that is forward-thinking and inclusive. Please reconsider this decision and work 
toward solutions that prioritize safety, sustainability, and equity. 
Sincerely, 
Daniel Case 
 
CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The information in this message, and any files transmitted with it, is 
confidential, may be legally privileged, and intended only for the use of the individual(s) named above. Be 
aware that the use of any confidential or personal information may be restricted by state and federal 
privacy laws. If you are not the intended recipient, do not further disseminate this message. If this 
message was received in error, please notify the sender and delete it. 
93 of 368

--- page 94 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart
Sent:
Tuesday, February 11, 2025 1:16 PM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
FW: Comment on Humboldt bike lane
FYI. 
 
From: Katrina Castillo 
  
Sent: Sunday, February 9, 2025 10:10 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Comment on Humboldt bike lane 
 
Hello City Council, 
 
I am a North Central resident and writing to say how disappointed I am that the council is beginning the 
process to remove the Humboldt bike lanes. It's disheartening to me that the council is prioritizing 
spending funds that could be spent elsewhere, on any number of things the city needs, and instead is 
making Humboldt less safe for cyclists. I urge you to reconsider, or at least look into alternatives to 
balance the parking concerns and safety concerns, instead removing the lanes entirely.  
 
Thank you for your attention. 
 
Katrina Castillo 
 
94 of 368

--- page 95 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart
Sent:
Thursday, January 29, 2026 9:21 AM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
FW: Keep the Humboldt bike lane
 
 
From: Jacob Chamoun 
  
Sent: Wednesday, January 28, 2026 8:43 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Keep the Humboldt bike lane 
 
Hi San Mateo city council, 
 
I'm a resident of the North Central neighborhood who uses the Humboldt bike lane to pick up my 2 year 
old toddler from daycare.  
 
The proposals to remove the bike lane increase the risk of me or my family getting killed or maimed.  
 
I urge you to pursue the unanimous recommendation of the Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission to explore a residential parking permit program (RPPP) for North Central so that (1) the 
challenging parking situation is addressed for the whole neighborhood, not just Humboldt street and (2) 
those who have the greatest need to park a vehicle in the public right of way are able to, and not just 
those who own and park a lot of cars like commercial businesses. 
 
Jacob Chamoun 
 
95 of 368

--- page 96 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Belinda Chlouber 
Sent:
Wednesday, January 28, 2026 10:57 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Bike Lanes
Hi, 
 
I strongly oppose taking out any bike lanes. I'm not sure why San Mateo is so bad about creating safe bike 
lanes and streets but it's very disappointing. I realize we have a strong and vocal property rights group 
here but it's not all about each individual property owner's rights. We have to think about our collective 
rights. Bikes are far better for the environment, and it's a future we should embrace.  
 
If we need one-way streets to create safer streets with bike lanes. Then that is what we should do. I'm 
sure there are solutions other than taking out bike lanes entirely. Other cities have good bike lanes. I was 
just in Chico--they have fantastic bike lanes. Just ask them what needs to be done. 
 
Thank you for all your hard work. I know it's not easy--especially since we have some difficult people in 
this town. 
 
Belinda 
 
 
Belinda Chlouber 
 
 
website
 
email      
 
 
Social Media 
 
 
Fine Art, paintings, mixed media and prints inspired by nature, and poetry. 
 
~ Find Joy in the everyday, while crafting a life rich through nature, beauty and compassion. 
96 of 368

--- page 97 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>
Sent:
Thursday, January 29, 2026 12:34 PM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Christina Horrisberger; Alex Khojikian
Subject:
FW: Humboldt St bike lane removal
 
 
From: AJ 
  
Sent: Tuesday, January 27, 2026 8:54 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: RE: Humboldt St bike lane removal 
 
Dear City Council: 
 
I urge you to keep the bike lanes intact on Humboldt Street. Considering that there are 3 schools in in the 
immediate area serving 10,000 students, removing the bike lanes would make an already dangerous 
road even more lethal for students riding their bikes to school. I also want to remind the council that no 
bicyclist is as well armored as a driver in a car, whether the car is moving swiftly or not. 
 
Regards, 
 
AJ cho 
 
Sent via
 - email that plants trees. 
97 of 368

--- page 98 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart
Sent:
Thursday, January 29, 2026 9:15 AM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
FW: San Mateo Bike Lanes - Humboldt
 
 
From: Tim D 
  
Sent: Thursday, January 29, 2026 9:06 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: San Mateo Bike Lanes - Humboldt 
 
Dear City Council, 
 
As a homeowner and resident of San Mateo I’d like to express support for more bike lanes and not the 
removal of the precious few we have.  
 
My daughter attended school off of Humboldt ave at the current location of fiesta gardens elementary 
school for several years. We both biked and drove her to and from school and we found that driving 
brought traffic frustration which would sometimes lead to dangerous conditions around children. Biking, 
before the bike lanes, proved dangerous but also flexible and rewarding. The lack of protected lanes 
limited my willingness to use our bikes, unfortunately.  
 
I should clarify that I am a cyclist. I spent years commuting across San Mateo from north Delaware St and 
later Burlingame down to my office at the crossroads (92 and 101). I’m no stranger to bike commuting 
and managing traffic across varying road conditions. But things are different when you have a child in toe 
and you need improved infrastructure to accommodate the needs of those less experienced.  
 
With improved road conditions and expanded bike lane connectivity across our neighborhoods, we have 
an opportunity to improve San Mateo’s culture and accessibility for all ages. Sacrificing the few bike 
lanes we have for increased parking spaces would take us in the opposite direction.  
 
Thank you for hearing my voice, 
Tim Durkin 
98 of 368

--- page 99 ---
_ DULAT, 1J99 uoloULAOful [OUOTPPP 40x]
LaaaLS LATOAaWNH
NO DNDN Vd JO NYN.Lad FHL GNVWSAG

WA OOT OTW 00S 12 97 Be AEpUOLAl
UO SAY 4,07 ‘M OFE HEH AHO
jo yuo ut ulof oseotd
pILoF] 2q 0} POON [eNUAD YON Ul SAd10A OL
SNIS ‘HOUVIN ‘AVad



--- page 100 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Lander Foquet 
Sent:
Friday, December 12, 2025 9:07 AM
To:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject:
Humboldt Ave Bike lanes support
Dear committee members, 
 
Thank you very much for voting to keep the bike lanes on Humboldt. 
 
I use these lanes almost daily for my commute into San Mateo to take my daughter to preschool, and 
my colleague uses them daily for his commute to SSF. It is disappointing that some residents 
prioritize having more parking spaces over maintaining a safe neighborhood, especially since every 
house on the street has ample parking in front of their own garage. 
 
I appreciate your support in this matter. 
 
Sincerely, 
Lander Foquet 
 
100 of 368

--- page 101 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart
Sent:
Wednesday, February 5, 2025 2:57 PM
To:
Jay Yu; Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Christina Horrisberger
Cc:
Alex Khojikian
Subject:
FW: Humboldt Street Bike Lane
 
 
From: James Ford 
  
Sent: Wednesday, February 5, 2025 2:55 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: Humboldt Street Bike Lane 
 
Good Afternoon City Council, 
 
My name is James Ford, and I am a District 1 resident. I am writing to share feedback on the council's 
recent direction to start the process of removing the bicycle lane on Humboldt Street from Second 
Avenue to Indian Avenue. I attended the December 4th, 2024 workshop at the Dr. MLK Jr. Community 
Center and can sympathize with the North Central community for the tangible hardship posed by the 
loss of roughly 200 parking spaces. At the same time, I cannot help but be disappointed by the council's 
decision to remove the lanes, especially given the lanes' proximity to San Mateo High, College Park 
Elementary, and the San Mateo Adult School. I worry that this choice will negatively impact the young 
families and students who spoke in favor of preserving the lanes at Monday's meeting; in addition, 
removing the lanes may make it more difficult for San Mateo to secure grants for street safety 
improvements in the future. On the subject of safe routes to school, I highly recommend San Mateo 
School District Trustee Maggie Trinh's thought-provoking letter to the editor in the San Mateo Daily 
Journal from this past Monday. 
 
If we want families to feel comfortable sending their kids to school and to extracurricular activities by 
bike or by foot, the city must invest in both improved traffic enforcement of speeding motorists and 
enhanced street infrastructure,  which includes a commitment to building out the city's 2020 bicycle 
master plan. In turn, these vital improvements engender a greater sense of confidence in the safety of 
our local streets. 
  
Thank you, 
James 
101 of 368

--- page 102 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Chantal Eaton
Sent:
Wednesday, December 10, 2025 3:42 PM
To:
Jay Yu
Cc:
Kathleen O'Brien; Matt Fabry; Kathleen O'Brien; Alex Khojikian
Subject:
FW: Public Comment in regards to Humboldt Street bike lane removal
Attachments:
20250126_I have a Dream … and San Mateo is creating a nightmare - RWCPulse.pdf; 
20250211_Rumble in the Jungle.pdf
Hi all, 
Please see comment below.  
 
Best,  
Chantal 
 
From: Gerd S from RWC
  
Sent: Wednesday, December 10, 2025 3:17 PM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission 
<SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Public Comment in regards to Humboldt Street bike lane removal 
 
... 
To the clerk of the City of San Mateo. 
It's really hard to watch how San Mateo Democrats keep messing this up.  
It has been defined in the City's transportation plans, housing plans, age-friendly plans, general plans or 
the of course various climate action and sustainability plans that San Mateo needs more bike lanes. This 
was also determined by the San Mateo County Grand Jury report of 2002 and 2022.  
So shame on San Mateo Democrats for failing our children for such a long time. 
 
So what do local newspapers report? 
For one "Bicycle Boulevards" don't work.In fact they have led to more crashes and collisions. They might 
work for some of these MAMILs or WILMAs - however they don't work for children, senior citizens and 
they become unusable at night time.  
In the end it comes down to the fact that NC is an Equity Priority Zone, which translates to "if children in 
affluent neighborhoods deserve bike lanes, then children in low-income neighborhoods deserve them 
even more so." 
Any other decision is discrimination. MLK is watching you. 
... 
102 of 368

--- page 103 ---
12/10/25, 3:01 PM Blog: Rumble in the Jungle - Anytown, USA - Redwood City Pulse

Nonprofit local news for the Midpeninsula

PEEKING AT PLANS

Blog: Rumble in the Jungle - Anytown, USA

Las Vegas thinks this fight to remove bike lanes might have been fixed from the start.

j by Gerd Stieler
February 11, 2025 10:28 am

This is what people expect when someone says “Bicycle Boulevard” — that is not even close to what kids would be getting.

Every good story has at least two sides. This fictional story has at least twenty. But don’t worry, in this post I’m only diving into the most important ones.
But first, we need to set the stage. There are children in the audience. To remind everyone to play nice we are starting this match with a soft jungle song by The
Tokens — The Lion Sleeps Tonight

6: “In the jungle, the mighty jungle” 7
6: “The lion sleeps tonight” J
6: “Near the village, the peaceful village” 9
6: “The lion sleeps tonight” J
4: “Hush, my darling, don't fear, my darling” f7
6: “The lion sleeps tonight” J
6: “A-weema-weh, a-weema-weh, a-weema-weh, a-weema-weh’’

Background Story

This is the fictional story of two humble bike lanes on fictional Anystreet in a fictional working-class neighborhood in fictional Anytown, USA. These bike lanes are
currently fairly isolated and unconnected. But they are a starting point for a bigger plan to provide a larger network. This network of bike lanes would then connect
this working-class neighborhood to schools, libraries, grocery stores, restaurants, jobs, train stations, downtown businesses, neighboring towns, and recreational
opportunities. Currently, these bike lanes benefit many AnyStreet residents- directly or indirectly. They are and will benefit anyone who wants to save $12,000 per
year on car ownership and $2 per mile on car driving costs. They are and will benefit current and future students. They are and will benefit current and future bike

https://www.rwcpulse.com/blogs/peeking-at-plans/2025/02/11/blog-rumble-in-the-jungle/ 1/8
103 of 368


--- page 104 ---
104 of 368

--- page 105 ---
105 of 368

--- page 106 ---
106 of 368

--- page 107 ---
12/10/25, 3:01 PM Blog: Rumble in the Jungle - Anytown, USA - Redwood City Pulse

Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040 directs City investment to public improvements

that address health and infrastructure disparities in equity priority communities,
including the North Central and North Shoreview neighborhoods. City investments
will also support active and healthy lifestyles, reducing health disparities around
the city, improving access to fresh and health foods, making parks and open space
equitably accessible for all residents, and making streets safer and more beautiful.

What an Equity Focus Area in Anytown, USA really needs. [source: cityofsanmateo. org]

Here come the Judges

The five judges have access to all the data provided by the ‘Friends of Bike Lanes’ and by all these organizations, Policies and Guidelines:

SB375 — “Sustainable Communities Act”, SB743 (2013), Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (ISTEA), California Clean Air Act (1988),
American Heart Association (AHA), American Lung Association (ALA), American Cancer Society, American Association of People with Disabilities (AAPD),
ADA, BFP, ARB, CARB, BAAQMD, BATFCA, AARP, CARE, FAST, SR2S, SR2T, RBP, RBN, Complete Streets Movement, Livable Communities, Bloomberg
CityLab, LAB, People For Bikes, Bikes Belong, Bikes Make Lives Better, San Mateo County Bikeways Committee (1971), BATALC (1997), MTC, RTPCs,
CATDA, SMCTA, SMCTA Measure A, RM2, TFCA, Grand Boulevard Initiative, TEACH, BOS, C/CAG, ... and many, many more and even a few local ones.

Decent guides on how to build bike lanes: U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT), American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials
(AASHTO) , AASHTO Bike Guide (1974), NACTO, The Netherlands, Denmark, Germany, Paris, Sevilla, ... you name it.

Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040 supports a multimodal transportation system

implemented using a complete streets approach that emphasizes safety and access
for walking, bicycling, transit, and driving. By prioritizing mobility options and
connectivity for all modes, the General Plan works toward reducing congestion on
local streets, vehicle miles traveled and greenhouse gas GHG emissions.

Anytown’s General Plan 2040 [source: cityofsanmateo.org]

The five judges also just heard a bunch of high school teenagers — who are already riding bicycles to school — talk about how great it would be if more children could
be riding.

FINALLY - Let the Judges announce the winner of ‘The Rumble in The Jungle”

Las Vegas seems sure these judges did all their homework and read through all the guides provided. Understand all their city’s plans — signed and ratified. All they
had to do was promise some improvements to the bike lanes and pretend just a little that they care about cars, too. But blame everything on the guidelines and plans
and tell them that the city council’s hands are bound. The city council is usually very good at this.

Now, no actual vote has been taken tonight, and no real action is planned for afterward; this is just some general information gathering. Everybody seems to agree
that “Bike Boulevards” and “Sharing the Road” are not a valid solution.

Now no actual vote is taken tonight, and no real action is planned for afterward; this is just some general information gathering. Everybody seems to agree that “Bike
Boulevards” and “Sharing the Road” are not a solution. The arguments brought forward by these car-only people raise more questions than they answer. The city
council would love to stall and ask for more studies. It looks like Las Vegas money is moving towards a Parking Demand Study to find the discrepancies between a
few people with too many cars and the municipal code combined with the US Census. There are more cars parked on-street than there really should be.

For the scoring part of this Rumble in the Jungle, the five Judges have chosen Joni Mitchell’s Big Yellow Taxi — that is not a good sign:
6: “Dont it always seem to go”
Judge Doug “Lexus Lane” Ford II: “We love seeing kids at council meetings so we can crush their little spirits!“

6: “That you dont know what you've got til its gone?”

https://www.rwcpulse.com/blogs/peeking-at-plans/2025/02/11/blog-rumble-in-the-jungle/ 5/8
107 of 368


--- page 108 ---
12/10/25, 3:01 PM Blog: Rumble in the Jungle - Anytown, USA - Redwood City Pulse
Judge Doug “Lexus Parking” Ford III: “J keep hearing about ‘the future’. What future?“

6: “They paved paradise, put up a parking lot“

Judge Doug “Bicycle Chumpion” Ford IV: “Vehicular cyclists invented the ‘Bike Boulevard’, we’ll be damned to give up now.“

6: “Late last night, I heard the screen door slam”

Judge Doug “Me is Equity” Ford V: “J am only driving. I never find parking. Of course ‘equity’ is all about ‘my people’ owning too many cars.“

6: “And a big yellow taxi took away my old man”

Judge Doug “What Bias” Ford VI: “I don’t need to learn about Equality, Bias or some ‘Equity Framework’ —I am here therefore ‘Equity’ achieved.“

6: “They paved paradise and put up a parking lot”
6: “They paved paradise and put up a parking lot”

This is the moment when the children start crying.

It takes a fictional Village - and this fictional Village leaders have failed our children. [Source: cityofsanmateo.org]

Conclusion

Las Vegas is outraged. Doug Ford did it again. More highways, no bike lanes. The money line believes the fight to remove bike lanes was fixed.

While all groups are storming out, the clean-up song is playing.

6: “Richard Ramirez died today of natural causes”
4: “Got amped up on speed and broke into houses”
4: “His last murder was south of San Francisco”
6: “A guy named Peter Pan from the town of San Mateo’
4: “A little girl in the Tenderloin was his first’ A
6: “In the laundry room, and took a dollar from her fist” fi

https://www.rwcpulse.com/blogs/peeking-at-plans/2025/02/11/blog-rumble-in-the-jungle/ 6/8
108 of 368


--- page 109 ---
12/10/25, 3:01 PM Blog: Rumble in the Jungle - Anytown, USA - Redwood City Pulse
In all the Las Vegas outrage the next background music change to “When the Children Cry” goes totally unnoticed:

6: “Little child, dry your crying eyes’
: “How can I explain the fear you feel inside:
“A I explain th 1 inside?”
6: “ ‘Cause you were born into this evil world’ i
: ere man is killing man and no one knows just why
“Wh is killi d k j hy’ sa
6: “What have we become? Just look what we have done” fi
: that we destroyed., you must build again
“All th destroyed., y build again’
: en the children cry, let them know no one trie
“When the child ry, let them k jed”

And the children are crying when they see what Anytown, USA really calls a “Bicycle Boulevard”.

Editor’s Note: The views and opinions expressed in all blog posts are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect those of the Redwood City Pulse or its staff:

https://www.rwcpulse.com/blogs/peeking-at-plans/2025/02/11/blog-rumble-in-the-jungle/ 7/8
109 of 368


--- page 110 ---
PEEKING AT PLANS
Blog: I have a Dream … and San Mateo is creating a nightmare
Sadly my Dream isn’t shared by the County of San Mateo or the San Mateo City Council.
by Gerd Stieler
January 21, 2025 11:06 am
Updated January 24, 2025 11:09 am
Lorraine Motel in Memphis. Courtesy: Gerd Stieler Credit: Gerd Stieler
It’s Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. week, a great time to talk about education and Safe-Routes-To-School. Last week, we discussed that “School Choice” has nothing to do with educational opportunity but was born out of all kinds of ulterior
motives. This week, we do a reality check on our county’s Democrats. Have they been using “Equity” mostly just in pre-election slogans, or can they actually follow through after election season is over?
We will be talking about “Safe Routes To School” and “Slow Streets,” but most of all, we will be talking about the equity problem of “Bicycle Boulevards.”
“The time is always right to do what is right.” [MLK]
Time to get your program and your popcorn; this is a Drama in Four Acts.
Act 1: C/CAG is sharing the Dream
“The function of education is to teach one to think intensively and to think critically. Intelligence plus character – that is the goal of true education.” [MLK]
In 2023, San Mateo County politicians were introduced to The Dream. They were taught how their old ways were rotten and that they had to change. Apparently, the politicians that were summoned to take the equity training were Diane Papan,
Gina Papan, David Canepa, Lisa Gauthier, Davina Hurt, Karen Cunningham, John Goodwin, Stacy Jimenez, Christine Krolik, Alicia Aguirre, Michael Salazar, Adam Rak, Rich Hedges, Warren Slocum, Mark Nagales, Rico E. Medina, and a
few more. It is unclear how San Mateo’s City/County Association of Governments (C/CAG) decided that these people need the training. However, in the end, those students were explicitly mentioned in the disclaimer. We can also assume the
framework has been read and ratified by all members of C/CAG, all city managers, all city council members and all San Mateo Democrats until an opposing paper with opposing views is ratified next time. Without this process, the Equity
Framework wouldn’t be worth the paper it wasn’t printed on.
If any of the old and newly elected San Mateo County Democrats want to speak out against Equity … speak now or forever hold your peace.
Question: Can you explain the plans behind Transportation Equity again?
That is what this blog is for. So, after years and years of shirking the topic, the County finally took on the challenge of Equity and deserves our praise. Let us all look at the history of systemic racism in this county and how our county leaders
are reckoning with said sad history.
In San Mateo County and across the nation, people of color and other underserved and underrepresented populations have and continue to face persistently unequal economic, health, and quality of life outcomes. Public and private
institutions have historically contributed to these inequities through laws, policies, investment decisions, and other actions. C/CAG is taking steps to address Equity issues in San Mateo County. [C/CAG]
Can I get a Hallelujah for C/CAG, “historical inequities,” and “taking steps”?
“Equity entails removing systemic barriers and providing customized forms and levels of engagement and support for underserved and impacted communities to remedy past harms and underinvestment.” [C/CAG]
Can I get a Hallelujah for C/CAG and “systemic barriers”?
“C/CAG’s project team conducted Equity Focus Area (EFA) mapping and data analysis based on C/CAG’s program area themes, to identify social, economic, environmental, health, and quality of life inequities in the county” [C/CAG]
Can I get a Hallelujah for “Equity Focus Areas”?
“My community has been underserved and neglected. We don’t have any public parks. We don’t have bike lanes. The lighting is scarce, and some streets are extremely dark at night. Sidewalks are non-existent in some streets. The community
is dissected by two train tracks, therefore divided by those and other physical divisions.” [EFA Leader]
Can I get an extra loud Hallelujah for “bike lanes in underserved and neglected communities”?
Now we are all finally on the same page about the fact that Equity requires bike lanes in Equity Focus Areas. Amen. It looks like the County of San Mateo is finally getting it together and is really serious about equity – starting now!
… wait, wait. Starting now!
1/26/25, 9:19 AM
Blog: I have a Dream … and San Mateo is creating a nightmare - Redwood City Pulse
https://www.rwcpulse.com/blogs/peeking-at-plans/2025/01/21/blog-i-have-a-dream-and-san-mateo-is-creating-a-nightmare/
1/4
110 of 368

--- page 111 ---
Act 2: Alexander von Humboldt comes on stage
While the county was still working on an Equity Framework benefitting the Equity Focus Area (EFA) called the North Central neighborhood, San Mateo was prepared and pushed ahead. Mayor Rick Bonilla and his staff used grants from the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to undo some of the injustices done to North Central by previous city councils.
In the racist past of this county, money from grants like this would often go to inner-city highways, jails or parking lots. But not this time. This time, the city promised to install bike lanes on various streets, most prominently on Humboldt
Street. North Humboldt Street leads to several schools and connects this neighborhood through the 3rd Avenue bike lanes to recreational opportunities along the Bay. San Mateo’s Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission also endorsed this
Safe-Routes-To-School project. The commission cited the health, safety and environmental benefits for the neighborhood. So, basically, it is all the good stuff we would expect from a solid bike infrastructure project.
Nothing is controversial about better health, better education, less car violence, more safety, less air pollution, less congestion, and environmental benefits for low-income children, at least not for your average liberal San Mateo Democrat. So,
in the end, then-Mayor Rick Bonilla pushed it through the council with a vote of 3:2. The two council members opposing equity for an Equity Focus Area (EFA) were council members Amourence Lee and Diane Papan – which might have been
the reason Diane Papan received the special C/CAG equity training in the first place.
“Our lives begin to end the day we become silent about things that matter.” [MLK]
Anyways, in the end, three city council members did what was right and expected of them, and Humboldt Street in the North Central Equity Priority Area got the long-promised safety upgrades. The kids finally received their equity bike lanes.
Question: Can we quickly dive into the Equity Framework, please.
Oh, sure, we can do that. So, according to C/CAG and the County Board of Supervisors, San Mateo County has several Equity Focus Areas (EFA). The North Central neighborhood is certainly one. Redwood City along El Camino Real and
Woodside Road is also one. Big parts of North Fair Oaks, East Menlo Park, and East Palo Alto are also there. All these areas are along the 101 highway and have to deal with more car violence, more noise pollution, more air pollution and
therefore higher rates of childhood asthma than other neighborhoods. Anybody attacking those areas is basically attacking Equity and promoting what is known as Systemic Racism.
All C/CAG politicians and city councils were introduced to all the numbers and were made aware of this injustice. And, of course, every present and future council member has promised to remedy this bad situation driven by systemic racism in
our city halls – at least during election season, they did.
So, what qualifies a neighborhood to become an Equity Focus Area (EFA):
Zero-Vehicle Households (15% threshold)
Low-Income (28% threshold)
People with a Disability (12% threshold)
Seniors 75 Years and Over (8% threshold)
Single Parent Families (18% threshold)
Limited English Proficiency (12% threshold)
Rent-Burdened Households (14% threshold)
People of Color (70% threshold)
From that, we can tell that the North Central neighborhood has many low-income households with no car access. There are plenty of people with disabilities and seniors who can’t or shouldn’t drive anymore. EFA means that rent-burdened
households, seniors with little retirement savings and single-parent families deserve better alternatives so they don’t have to waste all that money on vehicles.
Why this last part is so essential becomes more apparent once you consider today’s cost of owning and driving a car. A new car costs on average >$50,000, a used car >$30,000 and insurance in California is on average >$2,300, with another
adjustment coming from SB1107. The yearly cost of owning a car is now >$12,000, and the per-mile cost easily exceeds $2 for many models (source: AAA).
So just to make sure everyone gets the message: Equity Priority Areas (EPA), Equity Focus Areas (EFA), Community of Concerns (CoCs) – and whatever new names and definitions the county can invent for this – require and deserve bike
lanes.
Act 3: San Mateo County is still creating the same old nightmares
Of course, the report and the training happened way back in 2023 and before the elections. Let’s see if Equity is still in 2024 and after the election. So 2024 came and went, and just when the year changed to 2025, city manager Alex Khojikian
and the San Mateo city council made the New Year’s resolution to put more equity focus on the Equity Focus Area of North Central. Unfortunately, they are using the reverse psychology story again. They are walking back equity like they did
with the infamous Equity HOT Lanes.
Our streets are made for Transportation. That is why San Mateo’s municipal code requires 2-4 spots for cars in garages and driveways. But instead of enforcing the rules, the city manager shirks his responsibility and takes the easy route. He
thinks it’s OK to take valuable transportation space away from children and give it to the violators with cars. He wants to use more gas tax dollars to subsidize private car storage of a Home/Car Owner Association with too many cars.
“I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character.” [MLK]
In America, this kind of behavior is called Systemic Racism in Urban Planning – you know, the thing these guys promised in 2023 to never, ever do again. Plenty of solutions would focus on the bike lanes and compromise between parking and
driving lanes. What makes it very questionable is that the city manager and council did not make any strides even to consider any of those solutions. No, they seem to be aiming right at school children and working-class people and with no sign
of any remorse or ethics.
Act 4: What actually is Alex Khojikian proposing?
Alex Khojikian is proposing the same failed infrastructure that he proposed as assistant city manager here in Redwood City. He is running the same Big Bikeway Bluff city manager Melissa Stevenson-Diaz has been pulling off in Redwood
City. Redwood City’s “solutions” come with nice names like “Slow Streets” (without making them slow), “Bike Routes” (unsuitable for children or older cyclists), and “Bike Boulevards” (that have zero benefits for cyclists). But these solutions
never provide more safety.
So we in Redwood City already know that what Alex Khojikian is proposing is not safe for children.
1/26/25, 9:19 AM
Blog: I have a Dream … and San Mateo is creating a nightmare - Redwood City Pulse
https://www.rwcpulse.com/blogs/peeking-at-plans/2025/01/21/blog-i-have-a-dream-and-san-mateo-is-creating-a-nightmare/
2/4
111 of 368

--- page 112 ---
Walk Bike Cupertino agrees: Class III lanes (Bike Boulevards) offer no protection at all and Class IV lanes and Class I trails offer the most.
Any responsible city manager would aim toward the right side of this picture. That is what America’s Bicycle Capital has been doing for 50 years. That is what Europeans and their Vision Zero plans are suggesting as well. Now, when a city
manager moves to the left side of this picture – there is a name for that. Whenever children in a low-income neighborhood are concerned, going left is what America calls Systemic Racism in Urban Planning. We have seen this kind of behavior
in Redwood City on Vera Avenue Bike Boulevard and Roosevelt Avenue Bike Route. In both cases old plans showed bike lanes and cycle tracks, but in the end all the kids got were “sharrows” aka “sharing the road” aka “non-infrastructure”
aka “not safe” aka “systemic racism”.
The only viable “Bicycle Boulevard” in all of America …
… is currently in Berkeley. Not on Bryant Street in Palo Alto, Morro Street in San Luis Obispo, Silver Avenue in Albuquerque, or Berkeley.
Google Maps shows the intersection of two Berkeley Bike Boulevards. Both have bike lanes, both streets have only one parking lane, and there is plenty of high-density housing in this area, too. High-density housing requires high-density
transportation options like these bike lanes.
source: Google Maps (https://maps.app.goo.gl/kMXersWEyXCGeMuF9)
After years and years of experimentation, Berkeley finally got smart and found the only solution to making their “Bike Boulevards” viable. At the intersection of Milvia Street and Channing Way, we see two Berkeley Bicycle Boulevards, and
both have nice green bike lanes now. We can see a mix of classes II, IIb, and IV, but no class III anymore. Berkeley recognized that they had to move more to the right side of the Cupertino chart to be safer.
Let’s repeat that: only real bike lanes work!
If Berkeley is saying that affluent school children and college students deserve bike lanes to be safer, then the County Board of Supervisors (BOS) should make that a county-wide rule.
“I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed: ‘We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal.” [MLK]
Would the Good Reverend be happy with San Mateo?
Q: Would the Good Reverend be happy with C/CAG?
A: He would agree that Equity Frameworks mean nothing if they are not lived and enforced.
Q: Would the Good Reverend be happy with the County Board of Supervisors (BOS)?
A: He would agree that if BOS can attack a supposedly independent Sheriff, why not go after systemic racism committed by city managers?
Q: Would the Good Reverend be happy with the City of San Mateo?
A: This depends on Vision Zero city sides with the children, their bike lanes, the rich Home/Car Owner Association (HCOA), and their private car storage.
… To Be Continued
This is a watershed moment for San Mateo Democrats. Let’s take a breather and let’s see how this is developing in February.
Actors to watch on the city council of San Mateo:
Mayor Rob Newsom Jr.
Deputy Mayor Adam Loraine
Lisa Diaz Nash
Nicole Fernandez (newly elected)
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki (newly elected)
1/26/25, 9:19 AM
Blog: I have a Dream … and San Mateo is creating a nightmare - Redwood City Pulse
https://www.rwcpulse.com/blogs/peeking-at-plans/2025/01/21/blog-i-have-a-dream-and-san-mateo-is-creating-a-nightmare/
3/4
112 of 368

--- page 113 ---
© 2025 Embarcadero Media
Actors to watch on the Board of Supervisors:
David Canepa (Board President)
Noelia Corzo (Vice President)
Ray Mueller (from Menlo Park – a rich community where leaders did provide bike lanes for children from affluent families)
Lisa Gauthier (newly elected from East Palo Alto – an EFA where leaders did not provide bike lanes for children from low-income families)
Jackie Speier (newly elected)
“In order to improve on Equity, you actually have to improve on Equity”
[Zarathustra]
More Information
C/CAG’s Equity Action Plan
C/CAG’s Equity Framework Report and Training
C/CAG’s reverse equity story about HOT Lanes
Blog: Squatters, Rankers, and Dead Parkers
Blog: RIP or RSVP to Parking
Some history of “Bicycle Boulevards”
Editor’s Note: The views and opinions expressed in all blog posts are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect those of the Redwood City Pulse or its staff.
Blog: The Big Bikeway Bluff
1/26/25, 9:19 AM
Blog: I have a Dream … and San Mateo is creating a nightmare - Redwood City Pulse
https://www.rwcpulse.com/blogs/peeking-at-plans/2025/01/21/blog-i-have-a-dream-and-san-mateo-is-creating-a-nightmare/
4/4
113 of 368

--- page 114 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>
Sent:
Thursday, January 29, 2026 12:31 PM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
FW: 2/2/26 Council Meeting, My Email Bounced/unable to deliver at any address for 
"Mayor"
 
 
From: Douglas Handerson 
  
Sent: Monday, January 26, 2026 8:57 PM 
To: City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob Newsom 
<rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.or; Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole 
Fernandez <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Christina Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle 
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: RE: 2/2/26 Council Meeting, My Email Bounced/unable to deliver at any address for "Mayor" 
 
January 26, 2026 
 
This is to ensure that the letter of which I tried to send copies to each City Council member and the 
Mayor, from my phone, regarding the February 2, 2026 agenda item on Humboldt Bike Lanes, reaches 
our current Mayor, Adam Loraine, especially since it deals with broader city Infrastructure issues than 
just the Humboldt yay or nay decision next Monday. 
 
The server responded to each of these three addresses for the Mayor, rejecting the send. 
 
I think the correct one is Mayor@cityofsanmateo.org 
. 
But even that one was returned, unable to deliver. 
 
Perhaps the City Clerk might help confirm whether all email routes for messages to the Mayor are 
functioning properly, please. 
 
The original email's heading is "Council's February 2nd Humboldt decision making. 
Council and Mayor Loraine, please let me know if you have not received that email. 
 
The main recipient was Jon Mays, btw., and the City decision-makers were copied. 
 
Doug Handerson 
 
 
 
 
 
114 of 368

--- page 115 ---
2
 
115 of 368

--- page 116 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>
Sent:
Thursday, January 29, 2026 12:31 PM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
FW: 2/2/26 Council Meeting, My Email Bounced/unable to deliver at any address for 
"Mayor"
 
 
From: Douglas Handerson 
  
Sent: Monday, January 26, 2026 8:57 PM 
To: City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob Newsom 
<rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.or; Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole 
Fernandez <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Christina Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle 
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: RE: 2/2/26 Council Meeting, My Email Bounced/unable to deliver at any address for "Mayor" 
 
January 26, 2026 
 
This is to ensure that the letter of which I tried to send copies to each City Council member and the 
Mayor, from my phone, regarding the February 2, 2026 agenda item on Humboldt Bike Lanes, reaches 
our current Mayor, Adam Loraine, especially since it deals with broader city Infrastructure issues than 
just the Humboldt yay or nay decision next Monday. 
 
The server responded to each of these three addresses for the Mayor, rejecting the send. 
 
I think the correct one is Mayor@cityofsanmateo.org 
. 
But even that one was returned, unable to deliver. 
 
Perhaps the City Clerk might help confirm whether all email routes for messages to the Mayor are 
functioning properly, please. 
 
The original email's heading is "Council's February 2nd Humboldt decision making. 
Council and Mayor Loraine, please let me know if you have not received that email. 
 
The main recipient was Jon Mays, btw., and the City decision-makers were copied. 
 
Doug Handerson 
 
 
 
 
 
116 of 368

--- page 117 ---
2
 
117 of 368

--- page 118 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart
Sent:
Thursday, January 29, 2026 8:43 AM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Christina Horrisberger; Alex Khojikian
Subject:
FW: Humboldt bike lanes
 
 
From: Martin Harband 
  
Sent: Thursday, January 29, 2026 7:49 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Humboldt bike lanes 
 
We oppose bike lanes on Humboldt.  
Thank you  
Martin Harband  
 
 
Martin Harband 
 
118 of 368

--- page 119 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart
Sent:
Wednesday, August 27, 2025 1:00 PM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu; Bethany Lopez
Subject:
FW: Humboldt Street bike lanes
Hi there, 
 
Please see the below email forwarded to City Council.  
 
Best wishes, 
Martin 
 
From: Martin Harband 
  
Sent: Wednesday, August 27, 2025 11:21 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Fwd: Humboldt Street bike lanes 
 
 
 
---------- Forwarded message --------- 
From: Martin Harband 
 
Date: Wed, Aug 27, 2025 at 11:19 AM 
Subject: Humboldt Street bike lanes 
To: <publicworks@cityofsanmateo.org> 
 
Please add this comment to the "Community Feedback " on safe-walking/ biking design concepts for 
Humboldt, Idaho and Fremont Streets. 
 
Bike lanes should be removed from North Humboldt Street. 
Bikes lanes should be installed on the lesser traveled streets in San Mateo, and not on the major 
automobile traffic streets.  This is common sense. and will save lives ! 
Thank you.   
 
Martin Harband. 
 
 
 
--  
Martin Harband 
 
 
 
--  
Martin Harband 
 
119 of 368

--- page 120 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart
Sent:
Tuesday, February 18, 2025 3:16 PM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
FW: Please Do Not Remove Bicycle Infrastructure
FYI. 
 
From: Jackson Hotaling 
  
Sent: Tuesday, February 18, 2025 3:10 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Please Do Not Remove Bicycle Infrastructure 
 
Hello, 
 
Please do not remove bicycle infrastructure in favor of street parking. This is a step in the wrong direction 
if the goal is for the city to promote increased safety, healthier people, a stronger economy, and a 
cleaner environment. 
 
Thank you, 
Jackson Hotaling 
 
120 of 368

--- page 121 ---
​Dear Mayor Loraine and Members of the San Mateo City Council,​
​On behalf of Sustainable San Mateo County (SSMC), I would like to thank you for your​
​continued leadership and commitment to sustainability. Your efforts to make San Mateo a more​
​resilient and forward-thinking city do not go unnoticed. I am writing today regarding the​
​upcoming February 2nd decision on the​​Humboldt Street bike lanes​. SSMC’s mission is​
​centered on fostering a sustainable, equitable and healthy San Mateo County for everyone.​
​Central to this mission is our steadfast support for active transportation infrastructure. It is​
​through this lens of long-term sustainability and equity that we view the current discussion​
​regarding the Humboldt Street corridor and request you reject any proposal that includes removal​
​of any portion of those bike lanes.​
​Prioritizing Student Safety:​​Humboldt Street represents the longest stretch of bike lanes in​
​San Mateo and is a critical component of the​​Youth-Based High Injury Network​. With three​
​schools in the vicinity and approximately 10,000 students navigating this corridor, the safety​
​implications are profound. Protecting our youth as they commute to school is not just a policy​
​preference; it is a fundamental responsibility.​
​A Matter of Equity and Inclusion:​​This corridor sits within an​​Equity Priority Area​. For​
​many residents, the bike lane is not a recreational luxury, but a vital artery for commuting to work​
​and accessing essential services. In an area where a high proportion of residents cannot afford a​
​car, removing safe cycling infrastructure in favor of street parking effectively prioritizes vehicle​
​storage over the mobility and safety of our most vulnerable neighbors.​
​Climate Goals and Regional Leadership:​​The proposed removal of these lanes to install​
​on-street parking runs contrary to our shared goals of reducing Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT)​
​and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. Furthermore, the eyes of the region—and the nation—are​
​on San Mateo. As other cities in the county look to your decision as a bellwether, removing these​
​lanes could create a "chilling effect" on active transportation projects across San Mateo County.​
​Acknowledging the Challenges:​​We recognize that community solutions are complex.​
​Balancing the needs of local residents with the safety of the broader public is a difficult task that​
​requires nuanced leadership. However, true sustainability requires us to lean into these challenges​
​by choosing solutions that foster long-term health, safety and equity for all residents.​
​We thank you for considering the long-term impact of this decision on the future of San Mateo.​
​We look forward to seeing the City Council uphold its commitment to a sustainable and equitable​
​transportation network.​
​Sincerely,​
​Sarah Hubbard, Executive Director​
121 of 368

--- page 122 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>
Sent:
Thursday, January 29, 2026 12:27 PM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
FW: Letter of Support re Humboldt Bike Lanes
Attachments:
2026 02 02 LOS Humboldt Bike Lanes for SSMC.pdf
 
 
From: Sarah Hubbard 
  
Sent: Wednesday, January 28, 2026 9:57 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Mike Swire 
 
Subject: Letter of Support re Humboldt Bike Lanes 
 
Please see the attached letter from Sustainable San Mateo County related to the Council's February 2nd 
meeting regarding bike lanes along Humboldt Street. 
 
Best, 
   Sarah 
 
To help protect your priv acy, Microsoft Office prevented automatic download of this picture from the Internet.
 
Sarah Hubbard (she/her) 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
Set up a time to speak with me here
 
궁
놓
궎
궏
궐
궑
궒
놖
놗
궓
궔
궕
놔
놘
놕 袨
袩
袪
被
袬
袭 Get tickets now! The 27th Annual Sustainability Awards Celebration is set for March 25, 2026 from 5 -
7 p.m. in South San Francisco.  Sponsorships available now. 
122 of 368

--- page 123 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart
Sent:
Wednesday, January 28, 2026 7:34 AM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
Fw: Humboldt Bike Lanes - Please keep!
 
 
Get Outlook for iOS 
From: Chris Jenny
 
Sent: Tuesday, January 27, 2026 9:11:51 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Humboldt Bike Lanes - Please keep!  
  
Hi there Council, 
 
We may be a bit of a silent majority here but there are plenty of us that live on Humboldt St that LOVE the bike 
lanes. I am a huge proponent of cycling and how it can help curtail traffic and pollution. We ought to be leaning 
into this more. I have been hit by a car on a bike before and would appreciate anything the city can do to help make 
clean and efficient transportation safer.  
 
Please keep the bike lanes in place and spend the $2 million continuing to improve our city elsewhere! 
 
Chris Jenny 
 
123 of 368

--- page 124 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Maurine Killough 
Sent:
Wednesday, January 28, 2026 10:59 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Restore Humboldt street parking
Dear Mayor Loraine and City Council Members: 
 
I am a longtime San Mateo resident and am a cyclist and a driver. As much as we wish everyone rode 
bikes we cannot but we all do drive cars and need parking. To strip away parking for all the residents 
on N. Humboldt for only a very, very few cyclists is totally unfair. I have seen video of the streets 
showing no cyclists for hours, yet the residents have given up precious parking rights for nothing. 
 
As a cyclist, I never use that street! I stand with the residents who were surprised by this excessive 
act. 
 
Please listen to those residents and to common sense and restore parking on N Humboldt Street. We 
are a community and need to join together on solutions that serve us all and make sense. 
 
Thank you for taking action on this to restore functionality in that neighborhood. 
 
Sincerely, 
Maurine Killough 
 
 
Maurine Killough 
You are not IN the Universe you ARE the universe—an intrinsic part of it.  
Ultimately you are not a person, but a focal point where the universe is becoming conscious of itself. What an amazing 
miracle.—Eckhart Tolle 
 
 
  
124 of 368

--- page 125 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Erin Livingston 
>
Sent:
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 11:52 AM
To:
Martin McTaggart
Subject:
Please approve the Delaware Safe Routes to School Project as Originally Recommended 
By City Engineers
City Clerk Martin McTaggart, 
Thank you for your efforts to keep the streets of San Mateo safe, especially for those who 
don't drive. I am writing to ask you to approve the Delaware Safe Routes to School Project as 
originally proposed by the City's traffic engineers. This design maximizes safety and comfort 
for residents and students who walk and bike, especially around several schools. 
I urge the Council not to water down experts' original design in the interest of higher auto 
speeds. Auto congestion is currently tolerable, even on days when the Events Center is busy. 
As we add housing units in this area, we need to make it safe for people to get around on foot 
and bike. Failure to do so will result in far more auto congestion, especially due to parents not 
feeling safe letting their kids walk , bike, or take transit to school. 
Thank you for your consideration and please let me know whether you support the project in 
its current, safest form. 
Erin Livingston  
  
  
 
 
 
125 of 368

--- page 126 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>
Sent:
Thursday, January 29, 2026 12:26 PM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
FW: I Support the Humboldt Bike Lanes
 
 
From: Allison MacQueen Felder 
  
Sent: Thursday, January 29, 2026 12:24 PM 
To: Danielle Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez 
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob Newsom 
<rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: I Support the Humboldt Bike Lanes 
 
Hello City Council, 
 
Please include this public comment in the packet for the upcoming 2/2/26 City Council Meeting. 
 
I am a San Mateo resident and support keeping the Humboldt bike lanes for the following reasons: 
The Humboldt Bike Lanes… 
 
Create a safe, continuous bike network across San Mateo, connecting homes, schools, downtowns, 
and bus/train transit as the #2 project on the San Mateo Bike Master Plan  
 
Are directly connected to the only 3 bike routes over the 101 in San Mateo (Peninsula Ave, Monte 
Diablo Ave, 3rd Ave), connecting eastern and western San Mateo 
 
Provide essential protection on a truck route where overserved speeds are 35 mph—well above the 
25mph speed limit (source: SM Dept of Public Works) 
 
Improve driver, pedestrian, and bicyclist safety on a corridor that was once the 5th most dangerous 
street in San Mateo County for all sources of travel (source: CCAG) 
 
Are widely used, with over 10,000 bike trips per month (source: SM Dept of Public Works) 
 
Enable Safe Routes to Schools for 4 schools serving 10,000+ students, including the new Fiesta 
Gardens K–8 school, the first neighborhood school in North Central in over 20 years 
 
Reduce greenhouse gases and vehicle miles traveled, key priorities for the City of San Mateo, San 
Mateo County, and the State of California 
 
Are supported by the majority of residents on Humboldt St, North Central and across San Mateo 
(source: SM Dept of Public Works) 
 
Are supported by 17 PTAs, SMFCSD board members, and the City of San Mateo Sustainability & 
Infrastructure Commission  
 
Save taxpayer money—removal would cost $1.3M+ and would jeopardize future grant funding 
 
Preserve safety—removing the middle section would create dangerous, disconnected bike lanes 
 
Further San Mateo’s commitment to Vision Zero made in 2015 and embedded into the City of San 
Mateo’s 2040 General Plan in 2024 
Please vote to prioritize safety and sustainable transportation in the City of San Mateo on February 2nd.  
Allison MacQueen 
126 of 368

--- page 127 ---
2
Co-Lead, Move San Mateo 
North Shoreview (District 2) Resident 
 
127 of 368

--- page 128 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Allison MacQueen Felder 
Sent:
Thursday, December 11, 2025 8:02 PM
To:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject:
Thank you - Humboldt
Hello S&I Commission, 
Thank you for your service and thank you for your votes last night to preserve safe routes to school and 
safe multi-modal transport in San Mateo via the 1.5 mile Humboldt bike lanes.  I use the lanes twice daily 
to get to Caltrain to get to work and on the weekends to get to downtown San Mateo and 
Burlingame.  They are vital to my personal safety.  
 
Bicycle use is growing, folks are figuring out there is a healthy, sustainable and inexpensive way to get 
around San Mateo and surrounding areas.   Preserving and growing bicycle infrastructure helps tip the 
calculus for folks to consider multimodal transportation options.  
 
Allison MacQueen 
North Shoreview resident  
128 of 368

--- page 129 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart
Sent:
Tuesday, January 27, 2026 11:00 AM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Christina Horrisberger; Alex Khojikian
Subject:
FW: Bike lanes vs. parking on Humboldt
 
 
-----Original Message----- 
From: Dana Miller 
  
Sent: Tuesday, January 27, 2026 10:55 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Bike lanes vs. parking on Humboldt 
 
Dear Council members, I would like to respecƞully make a recommendaƟon to the council as to the maƩer of parking 
removal and bike lanes on North Humboldt St. As an avid bicyclist and homeowner near Humboldt, It has been my 
opinion for several decades that the most eﬃcient way through San Mateo is to use either Delaware St.(south of Tilton)  
and or San Mateo Ave/California ave.(North of Tilton). Humboldt on the other hand is very ineﬃcient due to stop signs at 
the majority of blocks. As far as Humboldt goes, the most ideal soluƟon for all parƟes would be to restore the parking 
and make the enƟre lane a bike lane. In terms of safety, bicyclist deserve safe bicycle lanes and more emphasis should be 
applied to thoroughfare lanes, and in neighborhoods, just make the enƟre lane a bike lane.  
  I would also like to request that crosswalks be installed on Eldorado St. at 4th ave and 3rd ave. Both intersecƟons are 
located next to businesses that have large volumes of customers and limited parking. Many customers park across the 
street and try to cross in the mornings when it’s dark. It’s a very unsafe situaƟon for both pedestrians and drivers. Last 
and least is I would like to request the El Dorado St. sign (misspelled)at 4th and Eldorado St. be replaced with the 
correctly spelled Eldorado Street.  
 Thank You Dana Miller 
Sent from my iPad 
129 of 368

--- page 130 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>
Sent:
Thursday, January 29, 2026 12:32 PM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
FW: Keep Humboldt bike lanes
 
 
-----Original Message----- 
From: Flower Miller 
  
Sent: Wednesday, January 21, 2026 6:44 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Keep Humboldt bike lanes 
 
Hello City Council, 
Please help to keep the Humboldt bike lanes.  We have a lot of families in and out of our neighborhood (North 
Shoreview) who use these safe bike lanes to get to school and work on a daily basis.  Our children will also use these bike 
lanes when they go to high school. 
 
Our community’s safety is very important. We don’t need any accidents and deaths because we’re not giving them the 
safety that they need. 
 
Thank you for your Ɵme. 
Kind Regards, 
Flower Miller 
North Shoreview neighborhood  
130 of 368

--- page 131 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Kolja Schluetter 
Sent:
Wednesday, December 24, 2025 5:04 PM
To:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Cc:
Alex Khojikian
Subject:
Thank You for Your Leadership on the Humboldt Bike Lanes
Hello San Mateo Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission, 
  
Merry Christmas. I wanted to take a moment to express my appreciation for the Commission’s recent 
decision regarding the Humboldt bike lanes. Commissioner Narita’s remarks were particularly inspiring 
and clearly articulated the core issues at stake. 
  
Thank you for your thoughtful and diligent work. It has not gone unnoticed and is deeply appreciated. 
  
Best regards, 
  
Kolja Schluetter 
131 of 368

--- page 132 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>
Sent:
Thursday, January 29, 2026 12:29 PM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
FW: Please Preserve the Humboldt Bike Lanes
 
 
From: Sean Schochet 
  
Sent: Tuesday, January 27, 2026 4:10 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Please Preserve the Humboldt Bike Lanes 
 
Dear City Council, 
 
I’m writing to urge you to vote to preserve the Humboldt bike lanes. 
 
Removing them would waste public money already spent on planning and construction, with no clear benefit. Keeping the 
lanes is the more fiscally responsible choice. 
 
This is also about the future of our city. Safe bike infrastructure reduces congestion, improves public health, and supports 
environmental sustainability. It reflects smart, forward-thinking planning rather than doubling down on an outdated, car-
only approach. 
 
Public streets are shared assets, not private extensions of adjacent properties. The Humboldt bike lanes serve the 
broader community and help create a safer, more livable city for everyone. 
 
I hope you will vote to keep them in place. 
 
Sincerely, 
Sean 
 
 
 
 
 
Sean Schochet  
Pronouns: he/him/his
Upper School SEL Teacher
 
132 of 368

--- page 133 ---
2
 
Hillsborough Campus
Grades PreK-8 
 
San Mateo Campus
Grades 9-12 
 
 
 
133 of 368

--- page 134 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
sean schochet 
Sent:
Thursday, December 11, 2025 9:17 PM
To:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject:
Thank you!
Hi, 
 
I really appreciate you, the commissioners, in putting your support behind a better San Mateo. Your 
comments were music to my ears. I bike to work and want my children to safely bike to school - currently 
they don’t due to street safety on Alameda de las Pulgas). You are sending the correct message for a 
sustainable future that prioritizes safety of children over past conveniences and comforts for some.  
 
Kimi really spoke volumes about the unlearning necessary to change our community’s mindset to better 
the future with shared values in a beloved community.  
 
I so appreciate it! Please make Alameda de las Pulgas a priority in the near future (slowing cars down, 
safe pedestrian crossings between 26th and 20th, and a separated bike lane). 
 
Thank you for your awesome service to this great city! 
 
-Sean 
(Resident and teacher in SM) 
 
 
134 of 368

--- page 135 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>
Sent:
Thursday, January 29, 2026 12:29 PM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
FW: North Central resident supporting the Humboldt St bike lanes
 
 
From: Tiffany F Siu 
  
Sent: Tuesday, January 27, 2026 5:05 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: North Central resident supporting the Humboldt St bike lanes 
 
Hello, 
 
I am a North Central resident (live at the intersection of N Eldorado and Indian Ave) and support keeping 
the bike lanes.  
 
During the spring and summer, my family and I use the bike lanes multiple times a week. We do outings 
as a family on the weekend and frequently use the bike to drop my daughter off at preschool.  
 
Prior to the installation of the bike lanes, we avoided going down Humboldt St by car. With both sides 
having parked cards and then two lanes of traffic, you could not drive down smoothly and would need to 
yield if another car was coming in the opposite direction. It was very crowded! I'd also like to call out that 
there have been too many pedestrian deaths by car recently, I truly believe visibility is a key factor here. 
When cars lack visibility, it increases the chance that a vehicle strikes a biker or pedestrian. Putting more 
parked cars on that street and keeping it two lanes will in my opinion, increase the risk of pedestrian 
injury or worst fatality.  
 
This was before I moved to the neighborhood, but I believe a bicyclist was badly injured while on 
Humboldt due to a collision from a car? Wasn't that a factor in exploring the installation of the bike lane?
 
I suggest that we look into, how do we move large vehicles used for commercial business off Humboldt 
and into permit parking. Many residents have noted that many large parked vehicles don't move often 
which exacerbates this issue. I myself have had to report many vehicles on my street that do not move 
for over 5 days.  
 
I'd also like to call out that I attended a sunstainability and infrastructure meeting in December where the 
survey results of North Central residents were shared, keeping the bike lanes was the leading option.  
 
Thank you for reading.  
135 of 368

--- page 136 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Katherine Sheehan
Sent:
Monday, November 24, 2025 3:00 PM
To:
Jay Yu
Cc:
Matt Fabry
Subject:
FW: msm-middle-school-bike-routes Immediate Action Needed: Humboldt St Bike 
Lanes
Jay, 
 
This references a resolution by the SMFCSD Board of Trustees. 
 
Kat  
 
From: 
 On Behalf Of 
Allison MacQueen Felder 
Sent: Friday, January 31, 2025 10:13 AM 
To: 
 
Subject: msm-middle-school-bike-routes Immediate Action Needed: Humboldt St Bike Lanes 
 
Hello SMFCSD Bicycle Community, 
 
The San Mateo City Council is considering proposals to remove the Humboldt St Bike Lanes, which are 
1.6 miles long, constructed in 2022, directly link to 4 schools, and indirectly support bicycle transit across 
SMFCSD schools. 
 
The SMFCSD Board of Trustees voted 5-0 on 1/23 to support a resolution in support of preserving 
the Humboldt St Bike Lanes in San Mateo.  
 
SMFCSD District PTA is leading an effort for school site PTA Associations to vote on this letter in 
support of the Humboldt St Bike Lanes. 6 PTAs have brought it to a vote and 6 have affirmed 
support of the letter (Fiesta Gardens,Sunnybrae, LEAD, Meadow Heights, George Hall, North 
Shoreview Montessori), with other schools in progress. Nudge your PTA President to bring this to a 
vote at your next PTA meeting. 
 
Sign a petition to support Safe Routes to School and preserve the Humboldt St bike lanes. 
 
Send a message regarding this topic to the San Mateo City Council, you can email them at: 
citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
The San Mateo Council will be discussing this issue at a meeting on Monday Feb 3 at 7pm at City 
Hall (with opportunity for public comment either in person or via Zoom). Zoom: 
https://cityofsanmateo-org.zoom.us/j/88220205790?pwd=Ff2osKnCL8jnizzEQGu5hx1hLeJ3v1.1 
3rd & Norfolk Intersection safety improvements approved by San Mateo City Council 
 
This long-awaited project improves pedestrian and bicycle safety while speeding vehicle flow through 
the intersection. This intersection connects to 8 SMFCSD schools, the bay trail, creekside trail, and 
downtown San Mateo.  Great news! 
 
More information on the project 
 
Hoping it will be complete by the start of the 2025-2026 school year, but definitely will be completed by 
the end of 2025! 
 
Park Smart, Park Safe Be mindful when parking near crosswalks! 
136 of 368

--- page 137 ---
2
 
AB 413 - Daylighting Law  Starting January 1, 2025, it is illegal in California to park within 20 feet of the 
vehicle approach of any marked or unmarked crosswalk, even if a red curb is not present, or 15 feet of 
any crosswalk where a curb extension is present.  Click HERE to learn more about this new law. 
 
 
Thank you for encouraging your child to bike to school in SMFCSD! 
Heather Wolnick & Allison MacQueen 
SMFCSD Parents 
 
--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "Bike routes for Middle 
School" group. 
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to 
 
To view this discussion visit
 
137 of 368

--- page 138 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart
Sent:
Wednesday, January 28, 2026 7:35 AM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Christina Horrisberger; Alex Khojikian
Subject:
Fw: Restore Parking to N Humboldt St 
 
 
Get Outlook for iOS 
From: Francie 
 
Sent: Tuesday, January 27, 2026 6:02:40 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Restore Parking to N Humboldt St  
  
 
Dear Mayor Loraine and City Council Members, 
 
I’m requesting that you restore parking on N Humboldt Street for the benefit of that community and show that you 
have compassion for the residents and neighbors of North Central.  The idea that removing street parking in front 
of homes and then give residents the option of parking at the King Center, blocks away for many, and only for 
certain hours, is shameful.  
 
One cyclist and homeowner near Humboldt, suggested a much safer solution that works for All is to just make the 
entire lane a bike lane and return parking! Further stating that Humboldt is not a good thoroughfare due to its stop 
signs etc so the few bicyclist are likely local residents with short trips. San Mateo Ave/California Ave has always 
been the best for long distance cyclist with a short jog over to Delaware for the southern half of San Mateo all the 
way to Old County and beyond.  
 
Organized special interest groups should not have more say about a residential area than the people who live 
there. Please listen to the neighbors and constituents in North Central, explore other options for bicyclists, and 
restore street parking on N Humboldt St. Don’t mislead residents and say this is being considered, and then do 
nothing. Please do the right thing and make the residents of this community your priority when you are evaluating 
options to fix this problem.  
 
Sincerely, 
Francie Souza 
Resident of Central Neighborhood 
Member of SMU 
Board Member of CNA 
 
Sent from my iPhone 
138 of 368

--- page 139 ---
‭Miguel G.‬
‭North Central‬‭·‬
‭6 Aug‬
‭·Edited‬
‭·‬
‭The parking situation on Humboldt is grossly preventable. I witnessed‬
‭multiple neighbors with empty driveways and parking garages waiting‬
‭to take a parking spot not even minutes after the cleaning truck‬
‭passed.‬
‭I’d love more parking, but I agree with‬‭Michael‬‭that‬‭people are using‬
‭the street as their personal storage. Most parking on the street is cars‬
‭that aren’t moved all month outside of street cleaning day, and they’re‬
‭10 feet away waiting for their spot again.‬
‭We don’t  have a parking shortage, we have an issue with people‬
‭having 3+ cars and parking them without moving them. I’m usually not‬
‭home during these hours but I was sick and had to move my car, and it‬
‭was gross to see how many people were doing this. On Humboldt and‬
‭the surrounding streets.‬
‭Given the loss of the other side of Humboldt St parking, the city needs‬
‭to do something about all these cars that stay parked for months in‬
‭the same place, only moving feet away on cleaning days.‬
‭Here’s a picture at 12:50pm, 5 minutes after cleaner passed and the‬
‭street was already full.‬
139 of 368

--- page 140 ---
‭80‬
‭COMMENTS‬
‭Christine Cook‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭North Central‬
‭Agree, we’re likely to lose the Humboldt bike lane for completely‬
‭unfounded reasons. What’s worse (aside from the money squander),‬
‭is that this sends a message about the extent to which the city (and‬
‭our neighbors) value safety, and sets a precedent for the future bike of‬
‭lanes in San Mateo. I appreciate that you spoke up about what you‬
‭saw, there’s  too much misinformation circulating ….‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
140 of 368

--- page 141 ---
‭8‬
‭Michael Swire‬‭1w · Edited‬‭·‬‭Bay Meadows‬
‭Thanks for the hard data,‬‭Miguel‬‭.  Facts are important.‬ ‭The City‬
‭hasn't even done a parking study to gauge the issue, but is willing to‬
‭spend $3 million of taxpayer money anyway.‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭6‬
‭Miguel G.‬‭Author‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭North Central‬
‭Michael‬‭I just wish there was a path forward in between‬‭where maybe‬
‭bike lanes are kept but cars are checked more often or a parking pass‬
‭system to prevent hoarding parking space. I’m sure it would help many‬
‭of us that want parking back to not mind the bike lanes given there’d‬
‭be more parking if it wasn’t hoarded‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
141 of 368

--- page 142 ---
‭9‬
‭Dylan J.‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭North Central‬
‭Miguel‬‭an audit/parking study would make sense as‬‭a first step,‬
‭followed by potentially a permit program. But far too many people‬
‭think that it’s the city’s responsibility to provide free storage (in front of‬
‭their house) for their third, fourth, etc car. It’s especially egregious if‬
‭their garage is empty or filled with junk and the driveway is unused.‬
‭People on Nextdoor also love to complain about traffic and parking‬
‭pain, but then see no issue with advocating for policies that will‬
‭increase car dependence e.g. rip up bike lanes.‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭9‬
‭Miguel G.‬‭Author‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭North Central‬
‭I supported bringing parking back before, but I didn’t realize how‬
‭avoidable this problem was until now. So many people just leave their‬
‭cars sitting there and won’t move them. It’s weird how common that‬
‭is.‬
‭Those of us who drive every day have to park far away because of it. I‬
‭used to blame the bike lanes, but it’s really people with too many cars,‬
‭some they barely even use.‬
142 of 368

--- page 143 ---
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭15‬
‭Kevin Simpson‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭North Central‬
‭Miguel‬‭and so many commercial vehicles.  Why does‬‭any business‬
‭get free parking in a residential zone?  Other businesses have to‬
‭obtain parking for their vehicles as sort of that cost and is bet it is a‬
‭tax write off as a business expense.  A parking permit program would‬
‭take care of this.‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭6‬
‭Miguel G.‬‭Author‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭North Central‬
‭Kevin‬‭yeah I noticed like 5-10 commercial trucks and‬‭vans that take up‬
‭2 cars worth of space.‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
143 of 368

--- page 144 ---
‭2‬
‭Teresa S.‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭Borel‬
‭This problem is all over san mateo and Belmont. You ever try and visit‬
‭someone living on carlmont dr. In Belmont? Its terrible at night to find‬
‭parking. You have to walk very far to your apt. Everyone has 2 cars‬
‭mostly because let's say roommates and husband or wife's.  Can't be‬
‭helped . The seniors have to walk so far to get to there apts.‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭3‬
‭Miguel G.‬‭Author‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭North Central‬
‭Teresa‬‭it can be helped by making sure the cars are‬‭moving and not‬
‭staying in one spot for weeks at a time. That’s what I noticed is what‬
‭takes up the spots and screws over those that need to drive daily‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭1‬
‭Bennett Lee‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭Parkside‬
144 of 368

--- page 145 ---
‭It always amazes me that people refuse to park their cars on their own‬
‭driveways or garages… BUT they are the first to report & complain here‬
‭about their cars being sideswiped, hit & run, vandalized, burglarized, or‬
‭damaged while it was parked vulnerable on the street! 🤷‍♂️‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭4‬
‭Bryan Ackley‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭Burlingame Park‬
‭Unfortunately every family member has to have a car.  The average‬
‭family in SM county is 2.5 people living at a residence. If everyone has‬
‭2 cars per family parked on the street and the average is around 14‬
‭houses per block , meaning that one block has 28 cars to park on the‬
‭street that can only hold 19 to 25 cars because on any one block‬
‭because there are many no parking zones too. I can count families‬
‭that have more than 2 cars, in some cases we are talking 4 or 5 cars‬
‭per family. In my neighborhood  alone there are 4 residents with 4 or‬
‭more cars on the street. The answers are out there but no one likes‬
‭the options,‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
145 of 368

--- page 146 ---
‭1‬
‭Dylan J.‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭North Central‬
‭Bryan‬‭and those answers out there include actually‬‭utilizing garages‬
‭and driveways for parking, instead of acting like it’s the city’s‬
‭responsibility to provide street parking for every car.‬
‭I would also challenge the premise that “every family member has to‬
‭have a car.”‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭12‬
‭Kevin Simpson‬‭1w · Edited‬‭·‬‭North Central‬
‭Folks near me go even further—they routinely use a spot that will hold‬
‭two cars easily with one car parked in the middle all day and often all‬
‭night.  Further out several use trash cans and cones  (and threats) to‬
‭keep anyone from using spots near their houses.   Meanwhile very‬
‭large commercial trucks—I’m talking dump truck size— sit all day in‬
146 of 368

--- page 147 ---
‭spots that could accommodate two cars, despite the ban on‬
‭commercial vehicles in residential zones.‬
‭And for this people want to throw the many cyclists and scooter riders‬
‭inclusion kids, workers who can’t afford cars, and other to the mercy‬
‭of drivers who have mowed down two people on Humboldt in just the‬
‭last two months.‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭10‬
‭Aaron Dodge‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭Parkside‬
‭It's preventable if you replaced all the S#IttY neighbors with good‬
‭ones.‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭2‬
‭Christine Cook‬‭1w · Edited‬‭·‬‭North Central‬
147 of 368

--- page 148 ---
‭Maybe the city should incentivize anyone who has a car the size of a‬
‭loaf of bread?‬
‭Everything is massive now. In 2015 five cars could park along my‬
‭street frontage. Now it’s only four. Sometimes less 🤣‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭3‬
‭Matthew Gallegos‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭North Shoreview‬
‭We deal with parking and speeding issues in North Shoreview all the‬
‭time, as well as commuters using the neighborhood close to the‬
‭freeway for parking and commuting on this side of the bay. The City‬
‭hasn't done a thing. Parking permits are the answer for impacted‬
‭neighborhoods. They did this on the other side of 101 on 3rd condo's‬
‭and has worked well.‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭7‬
‭Miguel G.‬‭Author‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭North Central‬
‭Matthew‬‭parking permits would do wonders here‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
148 of 368

--- page 149 ---
‭5‬
‭David H.‬‭6d‬‭·‬‭Hayward Park‬
‭The current city parking permit program doesn't guarantee anyone a‬
‭place to park. It does stop people that don't live in the area from‬
‭parking there though. I think the city needs a better parking permit‬
‭program that actually addresses the limited on street parking we have.‬
‭If one person has multiple cars stored on the street its unfair to their‬
‭neighbors also looking for parking.‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭3‬
‭Sally Ehrhard‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭North Central‬
‭Yea I used to live there at Woodlake facing right onto humble for six‬
‭years and for eight years at one other apartment at Woodlake‬
‭altogether I lived at Woodlake since 2005 and three different‬
‭apartments and parking was always an issue… Most often you would‬
‭end up parking way on the south side of the apartment complex right‬
‭next to San Mateo high school football field and then you’d have to‬
149 of 368

--- page 150 ---
‭walk half a mile to get back to your apartment It was definitely a big‬
‭pain in the neck, especially if you’re carrying groceries and everything‬
‭but I do kind of miss living there, but the owner was selling the‬
‭apartment and he knew the rent would go up much higher after‬
‭whoever bought it would decide on the rent and it would’ve been way‬
‭out of my league so I have been out of there for one year and I’m living‬
‭in my car.!!!!‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭Colin Madere‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭Central‬
‭Thanks for reporting what you’ve seen about this. It’s important the‬
‭city council, especially Nicole Fernandez, your district representative,‬
‭hear this kind of observation. Must be infuriating to see how much‬
‭space there could be and know there are a small number of people‬
‭taking up so much public space.‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭3‬
‭Michael Ragan‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭Indian Springs Park‬
‭Miguel, I think you fail to realize one important fact, the bike lanes that‬
‭were installed on Humboldt was based on the premise that hundreds‬
‭of bikes would be using that for transportation. But the facts that Taso‬
‭is providing clearly clarifies the lack of bicycle trips along that corridor.‬
150 of 368

--- page 151 ---
‭So the issue is was a loss of 200 parking spots at a cost of $2 million‬
‭and the anger and frustration of those homeowners justified. Miguel,‬
‭please listen to the neighborhood and what they want would be a‬
‭better way to  approach this dilemma‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭1‬
‭Miguel G.‬‭Author‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭North Central‬
‭Michael‬‭i live here! you don’t even live on Humboldt‬‭!! The gaslighting‬
‭is crazy. Homeowners have driveways and garages. The issue is‬
‭parking hoarding which leaves only a few spots for those of us driving‬
‭daily. I’m neutral on the bike lane thing, my post describes my‬
‭experience as a resident on this street and insight into why parking is‬
‭an issue. Open up the other side of Humboldt and people will park‬
‭more cars. There’s park hoarding, RV’s, commercial trucks, etc… that‬
‭needs to be tackled before another million dollar project‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭8‬
151 of 368

--- page 152 ---
‭Colin Madere‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭Central‬
‭Miguel‬‭isn’t it so strange how these very few people‬‭that don’t live in‬
‭the neighborhood or even near the bike lanes claim to know best what‬
‭to do with your neighborhood? Smells fishy.‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭6‬
‭Colin Madere‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭Central‬
‭Also very interesting that they joined ND the same day as your post.‬
‭🤔.‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
152 of 368

--- page 153 ---
‭4‬
‭Michael Swire‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭Bay Meadows‬
‭Michael‬‭Which neighborhood should we listen to?  A‬‭majority of SM‬
‭residents support the bike lanes.   Why is the head of the  Beresford‬
‭Hillsdale Association arguing to spend $3 million ripping out safety‬
‭improvements in another neighborhood?  Why aren’t you advocating‬
‭for the taxpayer $ to be spent in Beresford Hillsdale instead???‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭5‬
‭Seema Patel‬‭1w‬‭·‬‭Central‬
‭Michael‬‭to be fair, Michael has been a strong advocate‬‭for the‬
‭Hillsdale Blvd & Alameda de las Pulgas safety improvements. It would‬
‭be great if he supported safety improvements in other neighborhoods‬
‭too.‬
‭https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4768/Hillsdale-Boulevard-Alameda-de-las-Pulga‬
‭Reply‬
153 of 368

--- page 154 ---
‭Share‬
‭2‬
‭Seema Patel‬‭6d‬‭·‬‭Central‬
‭Michael‬‭I think part of the problem here is your assumption‬‭that T is‬
‭sharing “facts” about bicycle ridership and the city is not.‬
‭School starts up this week. I’d be happy to hang out with you at the‬
‭corner of 2nd Ave and Humboldt around 7:45am so you can see the‬
‭bicycle ridership first hand.‬
‭When I rolled up to that intersection a couple days ago in the middle of‬
‭the afternoon there were 5 other cyclists and scooterists waiting at‬
‭the light, and it wasn’t even rush hour.‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭2‬
‭Christine Cook‬‭6d · Edited‬‭·‬‭North Central‬
‭Colin lol, definite history on “how many accounts can one person‬
‭have” behavior :)‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
154 of 368

--- page 155 ---
‭4‬
‭Christine Cook‬‭6d‬‭·‬‭North Central‬
‭Seema‬‭that’s my perception on 2nd (and 3rd) / Humboldt‬‭as well. It’s‬
‭rare for me to be the only cyclist there‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭4‬
‭David H.‬‭6d · Edited‬‭·‬‭Hayward Park‬
‭I love how these cost figures get thrown around with no sources. You‬
‭can read up on how CDBG funds are spent here:‬
‭https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/1091/Annual-Reports‬
‭From what I can tell about $740,000 was spent on this project with a‬
‭much larger scope that the area being focused on. Yet we still see‬
‭over double that talked about with no citations.‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭Miguel G.‬‭Author‬‭6d‬‭·‬‭North Central‬
‭Taso‬‭Humboldt resident here, you don’t actually care‬‭or listen to‬
‭residents. You don’t even live on Humboldt‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
155 of 368

--- page 156 ---
‭3‬
‭Dylan J.‬‭6d‬‭·‬‭North Central‬
‭Miguel‬‭don’t bother with Taso. He’s the CEO of a company‬‭that is‬
‭incentivized to maximize parking availability. He routinely spreads‬
‭hyperbole and misinformation.‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭6‬
‭Seema Patel‬‭6d‬‭·‬‭Central‬
‭David‬‭, hi!‬
‭At the February 3, 2025 City Council meeting the Council directed staff‬
‭to pursue Alt 5 & Alt 3:‬
‭$620K: restoration of parking & bike lane removal‬
156 of 368

--- page 157 ---
‭$150-300K: bike boulevard pilot‬
‭If the Council decided to make the bike boulevard permanent, that‬
‭would come at an additional $2.2M cost.‬
‭https://www.youtube.com/live/fdadxvZGxCY?si=1xyWJc9uLh7c0B_G&t=15127‬
‭And that doesn't include the sunk cost of installing the bike lanes in‬
‭the first place, which cost ~$1.9M with $1M coming from the Citywide‬
‭Street Rehabilitation Package and $900K coming from the Community‬
‭Development Block Grant.‬
‭https://sanmateo.primegov.com/meeting/document/2818.pdf?name=Agenda%20‬
‭Report‬
‭So the total cost to install the bike lanes, remove the bike lanes and‬
‭install an alternative permanent bike boulevard would be ~$4.8-5M,‬
‭possibly $900K more if the city had to repay the federal government‬
‭the CDBG funds.‬
‭(Speaking on my own behalf)‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭David H.‬‭6d‬‭·‬‭Hayward Park‬
‭Seema‬‭Thanks for the breakdown, lots of moving pieces‬‭here. It helps‬
‭to have references to really information and not more hyperbole and‬
‭misinformation.‬
157 of 368

--- page 158 ---
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭2‬
‭Michael Ragan‬‭6d‬‭·‬‭Indian Springs Park‬
‭Michael just to respond to your three? Marks, I was head of the traffic‬
‭action plan sponsored by the city of San Mateo in 2017, I also sat on‬
‭the citizens advisory committee studying the citywide bicycle master‬
‭plan. I do want to point out that I did not mention my affiliation with‬
‭BHNA in my response to Miguel. if you would like to have further‬
‭discussions about these issues, feel free to contact me.‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭Michael Swire‬‭6d‬‭·‬‭Bay Meadows‬
‭Michael‬‭I encourage you to listen to those living‬‭in Beresford/Hillsdale.‬
‭Many of them probably send their kids to San Mateo High School, on‬
‭Humboldt and would prioritize safer streets in that neighborhood.‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭1‬
158 of 368

--- page 159 ---
‭Ben Toy‬‭6d‬‭·‬‭North Central‬
‭Sunk cost and would require an approximate $1.5-$2 million to undo‬
‭and return it back.   There is also Vision Zero grant money that might‬
‭be required to be returned‬
‭In light of projected SM budget shortfall of ~$20 million for the next‬
‭few years‬
‭My original proposal was to pass a variance in this area  to allow‬
‭parking on their lawns and keep the bicycle lane, which i think is a‬
‭win/win‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭3‬
‭Kevin Simpson‬‭5d‬‭·‬‭North Central‬
‭Ben‬‭So many houses already park on their lawns or‬‭removed them‬
‭entirely!  Look at the southwest corner of 2nd and Humboldt and the‬
‭restored house at 
 Humboldt.  Yards paved over.  And elsewhere‬
‭people just park on the lawn.‬
‭Reply‬
159 of 368

--- page 160 ---
‭Share‬
‭Colin Madere‬‭6d‬‭·‬‭Central‬
‭Miguel‬‭there’s a handful of people that are attacking‬‭all the bike lanes,‬
‭no matter the details. Emails have been sent out with misleading‬
‭baseless claims. They make up things to stop them. I don’t know why,‬
‭but it appears as though having safe alternatives to cars is some sort‬
‭of attack on them or their lifestyles and they seem to be willing to say‬
‭almost anything to kill the advances (the very slow advances) to make‬
‭it possible to safely bike (and walk! And scooter!) around our city.‬
‭There’s some odd psychological thing going on that “someone living‬
‭differently than me is an attack on my choices” or some such. It’s not!‬
‭Everyone being able to safely use the roadways is very much an‬
‭all-around city and resident improvement. With every proposed project‬
‭that includes bike infrastructure there are ALSO improvements to‬
‭driving (improved light timing, spacing, flow controls), but that’s not‬
‭enough for them. They want no one else to have reasonable options‬
‭other than their option. Maybe that’s at play with the parking problem:‬
‭people intentionally taking up spaces to try to make it seem worse‬
‭than it is to have all their neighbors put pressure on the city.‬
‭It’s also very sad to have people involved in making these decisions in‬
‭the city being potentially so biased and untruthful and hurting the‬
‭future of infrastructure for the next generation. Car ownership is going‬
‭down for a lot of good reasons, we should plan for the future, not the‬
‭past. I say that as someone who drives and works on cars, modern‬
‭and vintage.‬
160 of 368

--- page 161 ---
‭When the city council votes on these projects, everyone should pay‬
‭attention. See who is catering to outdated ideas and who is working‬
‭for the best long term future of our city.‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭8‬
‭Claire Mack‬‭3d‬‭·‬‭North Central‬
‭Welcome to North Central San Mateo!‬
‭Reply‬
‭Share‬
‭2‬
161 of 368

--- page 162 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Matt Fabry
Sent:
Monday, August 18, 2025 11:29 AM
To:
Jay Yu; Nicolette Chan; Bethany Lopez
Cc:
Katherine Sheehan
Subject:
FW: Parking abuse in North Central (and elsewhere in San Mateo)
Attachments:
20250816 Parking abuse in NC.pdf
FYI 
 
From: Mike Swire 
  
Sent: Saturday, August 16, 2025 12:14 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission 
<SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org>; Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; Matt Fabry 
<mfabry@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Parking abuse in North Central (and elsewhere in San Mateo) 
 
Dear San Mateo leaders, 
 
As I am sure you are aware, many in our city are increasingly concerned about abuse of parking rules and 
courtesy, especially given that many neighborhoods have parking challenges. 
 
Please take a look at the attached NextDoor post from a North Central resident.  He noted that a high 
percentage of cars parked on Humboldt are not moved day to day.  They are only moved during street 
cleaning periods, after which they are quickly returned to their original position.  Long-term car storage 
such as this is not allowed per San Mateo law (which has a 72-hour limit).   
 
Some of the comments below the post mention other illegal behaviors that have contributed to parking 
challenges - e.g., commercial vehicles, reserving of parking spots, etc. 
 
I recommend that the City implement permit parking programs city-wide in an attempt to curb illegal and 
unneighborly car storage on our public streets. 
 
Thanks for your help in enforcing neighborly behavior on our streets, 
 
Mike Swire 
Bay Meadows resident 
162 of 368

--- page 163 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Alex Khojikian
Sent:
Friday, January 10, 2025 5:36 AM
To:
Cc:
Ed Barberini; Matt Fabry; Christina Horrisberger; Jay Yu; Katherine Sheehan; Bethany 
Lopez; Matthew Lethin
Subject:
RE: Letter from Mike Swire Re: SMDJ article on rise in crashes in SM
Thanks, Mike, for sharing your concerns with us. We take safety very seriously as well and appreciate 
your input. 
 
I think it's important to clarify that the San Mateo Daily Journal article was misleading about collisions in 
the city and North Central neighborhood. The sourced TIMS data uses different geographic boundaries 
and includes State highway data that is not the City's jurisdiction or area. This significantly skews the 
data. For example. when looking at the official San Mateo Police Department's RIMS data: 
 
• There was a 4% decrease, not a 50% increase, in citywide collisions between 2022 and 2023. 
• There were 18 collisions in the North Central neighborhood in 2024, which is a 36% decrease, not a 
return to pre-pandemic levels. 
 
While one collision is too many, it's important to note that SMPD's data shows we are at least moving in 
the right direction. 
 
Community engagement in transportation and traffic safety issues is extremely important to us so that 
we consider all perspectives before making decisions on the best use of resources. With that in mind, 
there will be a 3rd and Norfolk bicycle improvement project action item at this Monday’s Jan. 13 Council 
meeting, and a Humboldt bike lanes study session item at the Jan. 21 City Council meeting. 
 
Thanks, 
 
Alex 
 
Alex Khojikian 
City Manager | City Manager’s Office 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7002 | akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
From: Mike Swire 
 
Sent: Saturday, December 28, 2024 10:30 AM 
Subject: SMDJ article on rise in crashes in SM 
 
163 of 368

--- page 164 ---
2
Dear SM City Council, 
 
Happy Holidays! 
 
I wanted to share with you the attached article from today's SMDJ. In it, they report on the rising number 
of crashes on the streets of SM, especially in the North Central neighborhood.  
 
I am disappointed that recent actions of the Council seem to be moving in the wrong direction. In the 
past two months, the Council has prioritized City resources - staff time and taxpayer $ - in the opposite 
direction. The City is considering removing the new San Mateo High and College Park Elementary bike 
lanes, only two years after installation. As the article points out, this is in North Central, the 
neighborhood with the highest rate of traffic violence in the City, a block from the 101 onramp. In 
addition, the Council recently tabled the Norfolk pedestrian improvements, in another dangerous and 
underfunded neighborhood. 
 
Every minute and dollar that is spent rethinking the past threatens the safety of those who walk and bike 
in the future. Our PW staff is down two key people. We rely on grant funding for many safety 
improvements. We should instead be focusing our limited resources on finishing the Delaware Safe 
Routes to School Project, the Hillsdale High/Alameda safety project, the 19th Avenue Fashion Island 
project, and the dozens of others in our myriad of traffic safety plans.  
 
Thank you, 
 
Mike Swire  
 
 
Appointee, SMCTA Community Advisory Committee 
Chair, C/CAG Bicycle & Pedestrian Advisory Committee 
(writing on my own behalf, however) 
164 of 368

--- page 165 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart
Sent:
Tuesday, January 27, 2026 10:06 AM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
FW: Return Parking to Underserved North Central
 
 
From: Lisa Taner 
  
Sent: Tuesday, January 27, 2026 9:31 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Return Parking to Underserved North Central 
 
Dear Councilmembers, 
Appalling situations are easy to stomach when you aren’t front and center. And when you don’t live 
smack in the middle of it. 
But last night, as the sun set, chairs were dragged out to the front of City Hall for some of the North 
Central San Mateans with canes or those too old to stand. This was their rally and they weren’t going to 
miss it. The music, clapping, prayers and demands to return parking to their Humboldt Street homes was 
meant for you to hear - yet again. 
Former Mayor Claire Mack (a North Central resident), heads of a local church, members of San Mateo 
United and Indivisible San Mateo, along with the NAACP stood under the flag at City Hall seeking “justice 
for all” in support to restore resident parking. 
Imagine this happening on your street. 200 parking spaces gone. 
Below are the thoughts and miseries expressed last night from those living this reality.  Any two or three 
should prompt your decision to return their parking - even from your armchair.  
When friends and family won’t come visit you because there is no parking in front of your home… 
When you are given a “parking option” blocks away from your home at King Center, but only between the 
hours of 10 pm and 8 am... 
When you’ve had to have signs “RESTORE OUR PARKING NOW” in front of homes all along Humboldt for 
2+ years (not counting the days when someone pulls them up and throws them in the bushes)… 
When avid bicyclists agree that Humboldt as a connector to the highway in multiple places is too busy 
and dedicated bike lanes aren’t the safest option… 
When surveys count bikes that go across Humboldt, but didn’t actually use the bike lane and is counted 
as 2 bike uses for survey purposes… 
When organized special interests groups have more manpower to attend years’ long City meetings and 
Council feels pressure not to represent their own constituents… 
165 of 368

--- page 166 ---
2
When a realtor calls the City and is told parking will be restored and that’s how she sells a Humboldt 
street home… 
When your roofing contractor learns you are headed to this rally and remarks that he hasn’t seen the lane 
used since he’s been working on your house… 
When bikes that are seen riding down Humboldt are using the sidewalk and not the lanes… 
When a little girl who lives in North Central bravely steps out of the rally crowd to take a microphone and 
her words are for YOU, the City Council: “Fix it. Fix it. Fix it, now!” 
Mayor Loraine, admitting you've made a mistake is worthy of respect. You lived in North Central while 
you were voting to remove their parking.  Then you moved away and have not been immersed in the 
resulting pain. But it is there - every day. These are the people you represent. Not the out of town bike 
people. Leadership requires strength. 
All, what hurts our neighbors hurts us all.  Those of you who stepped outside last night to speak with rally 
members - Talk is CHEAP. North Central is known as an underserved area of San Mateo. Let’s not allow 
them to continue to struggle.  
Righting this now will pave the way for easier acceptance of more well thought-out bike lanes going 
forward. 
I stand with our Humboldt neighbors. 
 
Sincerely, 
Lisa Taner  
 
166 of 368

--- page 167 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart
Sent:
Tuesday, January 27, 2026 10:59 AM
Cc:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu; Alex Khojikian; Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
RE: Humboldt Street Bike Lanes and City Survey Data Findings_27JAN2026
Attachments:
Taso Zografos Letter to City of San Mateo RE Humboldt Bike Lanes_
27JAN2026correct.pdf
Good morning, City Council (Bcc’d), 
 
Please note, an updated version of the previously forwarded public comment was received. Kindly see attached. 
 
Best wishes, 
Martin 
 
From: 
  
Sent: Tuesday, January 27, 2026 9:33 AM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) 
<CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle Cwirko-Godycki 
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob Newsom 
<rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Humboldt Street Bike Lanes and City Survey Data Findings_27JAN2026 
 
Dear City Clerk MarƟn McTaggart and San Mateo City Councilmembers –  
 
The purpose of my aƩached leƩer is to formally memorialize and expand upon the public comments I presented at the 
City Council meeƟngs held on December 15, 2025, and January 12, 2026, regarding the Humboldt Street bike lanes. 
 
At each of those meeƟngs, I provided wriƩen “leave-behind” materials to accompany my public tesƟmony. Enclosed 
with this leƩer are the leave-behind materials submiƩed at the January 12, 2026 meeƟng, along with limited 
supplemental notes intended to improve clarity. All data referenced herein was obtained directly from the City through 
a Public Records Act request. 
 
Based on my review of the City’s own data, I oﬀer the following key ﬁndings. For each point below (Items 1–5), please 
refer to the corresponding leƩer reference aƩachments (AƩachments 1–5), located on pages 2 through 7 of this 
submission. 
 
1. The Claim That Zero Humboldt Street Residents Oppose the Bike Lanes Is Not Credible 
The City’s summary of its in-person community workshop indicates that “ZERO” Humboldt Street residents opposed the 
bike lanes. This conclusion strains credibility. Such a result would only be possible if no Humboldt Street residents 
aƩended the workshop. However, mulƟple aƩendees have conﬁrmed that Humboldt Street residents were present and 
did, in fact, voice opposiƟon. It is therefore not reasonable to conclude that 100% of Humboldt Street residents support 
the bike lanes—or that “ZERO” residents oppose them. 
 
2. The City Acknowledges AƩempts to Manipulate Online Survey Results 
The City acknowledges that a signiﬁcant number of online survey submissions were removed due to mulƟple entries 
originaƟng from the same Internet Protocol (IP) addresses. This conﬁrms that aƩempts were made to manipulate survey 
results. City-provided data shows that the vast majority of these disqualiﬁed submissions were in favor of retaining the 
bike lanes. Moreover, the City has no reliable way to verify the true residence of online respondents or to determine 
167 of 368

--- page 168 ---
2
whether addiƟonal duplicate submissions were made using diﬀerent devices or IP addresses. An addiƟonal red ﬂag is the 
claim that only ten (10) Humboldt Street residents opposed the bike lanes online, an outcome that is inconsistent with 
the volume of resident opposiƟon expressed through public tesƟmony, correspondence, and direct engagement. Given 
the City’s inability to authenƟcate online survey submissions, the reliability of these results is highly quesƟonable. 
 
3. Mailed Surveys Show a Clear Majority Opposed to the Bike Lanes 
The City mailed surveys to approximately 4,587 addresses in the North Central neighborhood and received 150 
complete responses. The City acknowledges that 68% of these respondents oppose the bike lanes and support 
restoring parking on Humboldt Street. Breakdown by street is as follows: 
 
66% of Humboldt Street respondents oppose the bike lanes 
 
67% of Idaho Street respondents oppose the bike lanes 
 
59% of Fremont Street respondents oppose the bike lanes 
Among the veriﬁable, address-speciﬁc responses received, a clear majority of residents across all three streets oppose 
the Humboldt Street bike lanes and want curb parking restored. 
 
4. A 3.27% Mail Survey Response Rate Is Insuﬃcient for Public Policy Decisions 
The City received only 150 responses out of 4,587 mailed surveys, a response rate of approximately 3.27%. Such a low 
parƟcipaƟon rate is widely regarded as staƟsƟcally unreliable and inappropriate as a basis for major public policy 
decisions, parƟcularly those involving permanent changes to neighborhood infrastructure. 
 
5. The “Hot Potato” Analysis Piƫng Streets Against One Another Is Not ConstrucƟve 
The City’s “Hot Potato” survey analysis aƩempts to compare or weigh the views of residents on Humboldt, Idaho, and 
Fremont Streets against one another. This framing is not construcƟve. The only meaningful conclusion supported by the 
data is that a majority of residents on all three streets oppose the bike lanes and support restoring parking on 
Humboldt Street. Framing the analysis in a way that pits neighbors against one another distracts them from this clear 
and consistent outcome. 
 
I respecƞully request that the Council reconsider its reliance on ﬂawed and unreliable survey interpretaƟons and give 
appropriate weight to the City’s own veriﬁable data, as well as to the sustained and documented opposiƟon from 
directly impacted residents. 
 
Thank you for your Ɵme and consideraƟon. 
Taso Zografos, San Mateo Resident 
 
Taso Zografos  
 
 
168 of 368

--- page 169 ---
T A S O   Z O G R A F O S 
 
 
 
Page 1 | 7 
 
January 27, 2026 (correct) 
 
TO:  
City of San Mateo and San Mateo City Councilmembers c/o City Clerk 
330 W 20th Ave, San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
CC: 
San Mateo United Homeowners Association (SMUHA), Members, and Residents 
 
FROM:  Taso Zografos, San Mateo City Resident 
 
 
 
REGARDING:   Humboldt Street Bike Lanes and City Survey Data Findings 
The purpose of this letter is to formally memorialize and expand upon the public comments I 
presented at the City Council meetings held on December 15, 2025, and January 12, 2026, 
regarding the Humboldt Street bike lanes. 
At each of those meetings, I provided written “leave-behind” materials to accompany my public 
testimony. Enclosed with this letter are the leave-behind materials submitted at the January 12, 
2026 meeting, along with limited supplemental notes intended to improve clarity. All data 
referenced herein was obtained directly from the City through a Public Records Act request. 
Based on my review of the City’s own data, I offer the following key findings. For each point below 
(Items 1–5), please refer to the corresponding reference attachments (Attachments 1–5), located 
on pages 2 through 7 of this submission. 
 
1. The Claim That Zero Humboldt Street Residents Oppose the Bike Lanes Is Not Credible 
The City’s summary of its in-person community workshop indicates that “ZERO” Humboldt Street 
residents opposed the bike lanes. This conclusion strains credibility. 
Such a result would only be possible if no Humboldt Street residents attended the workshop. 
However, multiple attendees have confirmed that Humboldt Street residents were present and did, 
in fact, voice opposition. It is therefore not reasonable to conclude that 100% of Humboldt Street 
residents support the bike lanes—or that “ZERO” residents oppose them. 
 
2. The City Acknowledges Attempts to Manipulate Online Survey Results 
The City acknowledges that a significant number of online survey submissions were removed due 
to multiple entries originating from the same Internet Protocol (IP) addresses. This confirms that 
attempts were made to manipulate survey results. 
City-provided data shows that the vast majority of these disqualified submissions were in favor of 
retaining the bike lanes. Moreover, the City has no reliable way to verify the true residence of online 
respondents or to determine whether additional duplicate submissions were made using different 
devices or IP addresses. 
An additional red flag is the claim that only ten (10) Humboldt Street residents opposed the bike 
lanes online, an outcome that is inconsistent with the volume of resident opposition expressed 
169 of 368

--- page 170 ---
Continued 
 
Taso Zografos Letter to San Mateo City Council RE Humboldt St. Bike Lanes 27JAN2026 
Page 2 | 7 
through public testimony, correspondence, and direct engagement. Given the City’s inability to 
authenticate online survey submissions, the reliability of these results is highly questionable. 
 
3. Mailed Surveys Show a Clear Majority Opposed to the Bike Lanes 
The City mailed surveys to approximately 4,587 addresses in the North Central neighborhood and 
received 150 complete responses. The City acknowledges that 68% of these respondents oppose 
the bike lanes and support restoring parking on Humboldt Street. 
Breakdown by street is as follows: 
• 
66% of Humboldt Street respondents oppose the bike lanes 
• 
67% of Idaho Street respondents oppose the bike lanes 
• 
59% of Fremont Street respondents oppose the bike lanes 
Among the verifiable, address-specific responses received, a clear majority of residents across all 
three streets oppose the Humboldt Street bike lanes and want curb parking restored. 
 
4. A 3.27% Mail Survey Response Rate Is Insufficient for Public Policy Decisions 
The City received only 150 responses out of 4,587 mailed surveys, a response rate of 
approximately 3.27%. Such a low participation rate is widely regarded as statistically unreliable. 
 
5. The “Hot Potato” Analysis Pitting Streets Against One Another Is Not Constructive 
The City’s “Hot Potato” survey analysis attempts to compare or weigh the views of residents on 
Humboldt, Idaho, and Fremont Streets against one another. This framing is not constructive. 
The only meaningful conclusion supported by the data is that a majority of residents on all three 
streets oppose the bike lanes and support restoring parking on Humboldt Street. Framing the 
analysis in a way that pits neighbors against one another distracts them from this clear and 
consistent outcome. 
I respectfully request that the Council reconsider its reliance on flawed and unreliable survey 
interpretations and give appropriate weight to the City’s own verifiable data, as well as to the 
sustained and documented opposition from directly impacted residents. 
Thank you for your time and consideration. 
Taso Zografos, San Mateo Resident 
 
ATTACHMENTS FOLLOW (pages 2 thru 7) 
 
 
 
170 of 368

--- page 171 ---
Continued 
 
Taso Zografos Letter to San Mateo City Council RE Humboldt St. Bike Lanes 27JAN2026 
Page 3 | 7 
COMMENT  POINT # 1 REFERENCE ATTACHMENT 
 
 
171 of 368

--- page 172 ---
Continued 
 
Taso Zografos Letter to San Mateo City Council RE Humboldt St. Bike Lanes 27JAN2026 
Page 4 | 7 
COMMENT POINT # 2 REFERENCE ATTACHMENT 
 
 
 
 
172 of 368

--- page 173 ---
Continued 
 
Taso Zografos Letter to San Mateo City Council RE Humboldt St. Bike Lanes 27JAN2026 
Page 5 | 7 
COMMENT POINT # 3 REFERENCE ATTACHMENT 
 
 
 
 
173 of 368

--- page 174 ---
Continued 
 
Taso Zografos Letter to San Mateo City Council RE Humboldt St. Bike Lanes 27JAN2026 
Page 6 | 7 
COMMENT POINT # 4 REFERENCE ATTACHMENT 
 
 
174 of 368

--- page 175 ---
Continued 
 
Taso Zografos Letter to San Mateo City Council RE Humboldt St. Bike Lanes 27JAN2026 
Page 7 | 7 
COMMENT POINT # 5 REFERENCE ATTACHMENT 
 
 
175 of 368

--- page 176 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Mari 
Sent:
Thursday, December 11, 2025 3:13 PM
To:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject:
Thank you for your support
Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission, 
Thank you for your unanimous support of Alternative 2 at last night’s meeting. I deeply appreciate your 
leadership in putting safety first and protecting the Humboldt bike lanes. 
As a North Central resident who uses this route, I was encouraged to see the Commission prioritize both 
traffic safety and neighborhood parking concerns with thoughtful planning. Alternative 2 strikes the right 
balance—preserving essential safe routes while expanding infrastructure and exploring parking solutions 
in North Central. 
Thank you for listening to the community and taking action to support safer, more accessible streets for 
all. 
Sincerely,
To help 
protect your 
privacy, 
Micro so ft 
Office 
prevented 
auto matic  
download of 
this picture  
from the  
Internet. 
Mariana d' Abreu Tiwari 
176 of 368

--- page 177 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>
Sent:
Thursday, January 29, 2026 12:28 PM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Christina Horrisberger; Alex Khojikian
Subject:
FW: Feb 2 City Council meeting. Subject: Bike Lanes
 
 
From: Gary Trott 2 
  
Sent: Wednesday, January 28, 2026 8:48 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: 'Gary Trott 2' 
 
Subject: Feb 2 City Council meeting. Subject: Bike Lanes 
 
 Dear San Mateo City Council 
 
Re: San Mateo City Council Meeting on Feb 2 
Subject: Bike lanes 
 
Climate. TransportaƟon is the #1 source of greenhouse gas emissions in San Mateo County. If we're serious 
about climate acƟon, we can't prioriƟze free parking over the safe, green transportaƟon opƟons our 
community desperately needs 
 
Therefore: 
 
"I oppose removing the Humboldt bike lanes. Our children's safety and our climate 
commitments must come before additional free parking." 
 
Regards 
Dr. Gary Trott 
San Mateo Resident 
177 of 368

--- page 178 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Katherine Sheehan
Sent:
Monday, December 29, 2025 1:25 PM
Subject:
FW: San Mateo needs a safe bicycle system for our kids and families
From: Annie Tsai 
 
Sent: Thursday, January 23, 2025 11:12:48 PM 
To: Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine 
<aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez 
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: San Mateo needs a safe bicycle system for our kids and families  
  
Good evening Mayor Newsom, Deputy Mayor Loraine, Council members Diaz Nash, Cwirko-Godycki and 
Fernandez, and City Manager Khojikian, 
 
I’m writing to express my strong support for San Mateo prioritizing a safe and comprehensive bicycle 
system, particularly for our youngest residents and families. This letter specifically pertains to the 
upcoming discussions about whether to downgrade existing safety measures along Humboldt Street in 
North Central San Mateo. 
 
Before these safety measures were implemented, this stretch of road represented not only the city’s 
longest part of the "connected system" in San Mateo but also one of the most dangerous stretches for 
bicyclists. At a minimum, I urge the City to maintain the current levels of safety. 
 
North Central has a higher population density than most parts of San Mateo, with significant traffic from 
cars and large trucks servicing nearby business centers. Removing existing safety measures will 
undoubtedly increase the risk of accidents and injuries. With the string of near misses, injuries, and 
fatalities involving pedestrians, cyclists, and vehicles in our city over these last few years, we cannot 
afford to take steps backward. Any reduction in safety measures in a known accident hot spot would not 
only endanger lives but also increase liability for the City. 
 
As a parent of a child who bikes to and from school every day, I acutely understand the importance of 
safe streets. My son’s route includes quiet, open streets and almost entirely protected bike lanes on the 
busy streets, which allow him to ride safely as part of a “bike bus” with other kids. This bike bus replaces 
five cars on the road, two trips a day, five days a week—amounting to up to 50 fewer car rides weekly in 
an already congested area. Without bike lanes, these trips would shift to cars, further exacerbating traffic 
issues in Shoreview, Parkside, and beyond.  
 
None of the parents in our bike bus started out thinking that cycling was going to be a realistic option, but 
it was dedicated bicycle lanes that convinced us to try. This is how we get more cars off the road and 
reduce traffic - by giving residents a viable alternative. 
 
I respectfully urge you to vote in favor of retaining Humboldt Street’s current configuration or adopting an 
alternative design that preserves existing levels of bicycle safety. As the largest city in the county, San 
Mateo should lead the way in building a safe and comprehensive bicycle system for all residents. 
178 of 368

--- page 179 ---
2
 
Thank you for considering this vital issue. 
 
Kind regards, 
Annie Tsai 
 
 
 
179 of 368

--- page 180 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>
Sent:
Thursday, January 29, 2026 12:28 PM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
FW: Please keep the North Central bike lanes
 
 
From: Dylan Tweney 
  
Sent: Wednesday, January 28, 2026 9:45 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Please keep the North Central bike lanes 
 
Hello respected members of City Council, 
 
I am a 30-year resident of the North Central neighborhood. 
 
Please do not vote to remove the Humboldt St. bike lanes. They are popular with the neighborhood and make our 
street safer for all of us. 
 
Your planning department's surveys show that the North Central residents overwhelmingly favor keeping these bike 
lanes. Even a majority of Humboldt St. residents are in favor of the bike lanes.  
 
Why? Because study after study has shown that streets with bike lanes are safer for all: Not just bicyclists but 
pedestrians and even car drivers. 
 
Don't be distracted by the vocal minority opposed to these lanes. They need a parking solution, it is true.  
 
But the stree is not "theirs" to park on. The street belongs to all of us. The best and most democratic use of this 
street is to keep the lanes. 
 
This is also the fiscally responsible decision. 
 
Please make the right decision and keep the lanes. 
 
Respectfully, 
 
Dylan Tweney 
 
San Mateo 
 
~~~~~ 
Dylan Tweney   
 
 
Sent with
 secure email.  
180 of 368

--- page 181 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Martin McTaggart
Sent:
Wednesday, January 28, 2026 7:34 AM
To:
Matt Fabry; Katherine Sheehan; Jay Yu
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
Fw: Call to Action: Immediate Return of North Central Parking
 
 
Get Outlook for iOS 
From: United San Mateo 
 
Sent: Tuesday, January 27, 2026 9:06:47 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Call to Action: Immediate Return of North Central Parking  
  
Dear Council Members,  
 
I am requesting immediate removal of bike lanes and return of street parking to the homes on Humboldt 
Street. Last night at the rally in front of City Hall, it was brought to my attention that North Central San 
Mateans are still suffering from the city's decision to remove valuable street parking and replace them 
with highly underutilized bike lanes. 
 
As humans with a fundamental need for socialization to support essential psychological and physical 
health, it is incomprehensible the city has instituted a physical barrier preventing and discouraging 
family and friends from visiting loved ones on Humboldt Street. Even worse, the barrier has lingered for 
over two years without the city's commitment and action to remedy the mistake despite repeated pleas 
from residents including a former mayor.  
 
As Council Members, you promoted Measure T as the answer to claims that seniors were being pushed 
out of San Mateo. Given that pleas for the return of parking on Humboldt Street have been ignored, it 
appears the messaging was a promotional point rather than a reflection of true caring for seniors. As 
humans, we're physiologically programmed to deteriorate as we age. Some degree of physical 
compromise is inevitable. It's unconscionable that seniors and handicapped residents along with their 
service providers are forced to park a fair distance away from their homes. The City of San Mateo proudly 
displays the WHO's Age-Friendly City designation although its years of inaction loudly professes 
otherwise. 
 
I cannot imagine the replacement of street parking with bike lanes happening in the most affluent areas 
of the city. With the NAACP supporting the voices of the Humboldt Street residents, I now wonder if the 
exploration to implement the flawed bike lanes in other areas of the city is really meant to dilute 
geographic discrimination. With traffic along Alameda De Las Pulgas coming from the homes, schools, 
churches, recreation centers, and a shopping mall (with more homes and offices to be added), it's 
unfathomable that this main artery originating from Menlo Park and running through the back of the city 
would be reduced to one lane in order to accomodate a separate bike lane. 
 
181 of 368

--- page 182 ---
2
To Council Members supporting and voting for the immediate removal of bike lanes from Humboldt 
Street, I thank you for your true and empathetic commitment to North Central San Mateans. To Council 
Members who are undecided, I ask for your full empathy and urge your support in perpetuating a thriving 
and equitable San Mateo by voting to immediately remove the bike lanes and return street parking to the 
residents.  
 
I live and work in the City of San Mateo, but not in the North Central area. I believe it is important to have 
the capacity to empathize with North Central residents as if they were my family and senior loved ones. I 
ask that you do the same as we all are part of the shared humanity in this place and time.  
 
Sincerely, 
Marlene Tam 
City of San Mateo resident 
182 of 368

--- page 183 ---
ERM Youn.

”

NogTH CenTRAL ~

183 of 368


--- page 184 ---
lS PS

Jan D2 pers

aor soxtnth 'p Le LN
ON Humeolot.

young and J “ “

1 Aa Lepun V2ARUH


--- page 185 ---
kn Le : De dea but net euetla tur


--- page 186 ---
ug adtocwtad to frvad atornede park oe

mero et) eh tg oe



--- page 187 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
Ann Dorsey 
Sent:
Tuesday, January 27, 2026 8:43 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Make safety a priority
Councilmembers, 
I urge you to keep bicyclists safe by rejecting the proposal to remove bike lanes from Humbolt Avenue, the 
most dangerous street in the city. The bike lanes are next to three schools that combined serve 10,000 
students. There is a very real need for the bike lanes to stay as they are. Please do not waste precious city 
funds to remove them. There are far better uses for the $2 million. 
 
Thank you, 
 
Ann Dorsey   
187 of 368

--- page 188 ---
1
Chantal Eaton
From:
L. Eberhart 
Sent:
Wednesday, January 28, 2026 9:02 AM
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Fwd: In defense of Safe streets in San Mateo
 
---------- Forwarded message --------- 
From: L. Eberhart 
 
Date: Wed, Jan 28, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
Subject: In defense of Safe streets in San Mateo 
To: <citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>, <cityclerk@cityofsanmato.org> 
Cc:
 
 
Dear City Council members: 
 
I'm writing in favor of keeping bike lanes on Humbolt for the future of San Mateo's children  and for San 
Mateo's health.  As you know from the recent tragedy at 17th street, the  number of pedestrians and 
bicyclists being hit by vehicles is alarming.  We cannot ignore the fact that our society's concentration 
and attention is fractured by too many inputs.  This includes distractions while driving.   
 
While we have a program in San Mateo called Safe Streets, I personally can attest to the fact that they are 
not.  As a pedestrian I was hit by a car in the intersection of Tilton and North Ellsworth.  The car was 
turning left just as so many other accidents have occurred in San Mateo.  We need bicycle lanes and 
anything else that can help keep our population active and safe.    
 
Please consider the future before ripping out the bicycle lanes.  Cars are not always the answer and 
finding parking spaces should not be a black and white solution.  Get creative and find a temporary 
parking solution until automated cars/hail rides become more ubiquitous and we no longer need as 
many parking spaces as we do now. 
 
With respect, 
Leane Eberhart 
   
188 of 368

--- page 189 ---
City of San Mateo 
City Council Meeting 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POST PACKET 
 
 PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
189 of 368

--- page 190 ---
1
From:
Jake Adger 
Sent:
Monday, February 2, 2026 9:20 AM
To:
dciwkogdycki@cityofsanmateo.org; Nicole Fernandez; Adam Loraine; 
rnewson@cityofsanmateo.org; jdiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org
Cc:
Clerk; City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Please keep the Humboldt st bike lanes
Dear Mayor and City Council Members, 
I’m a San Mateo resident, and I’m writing to ask you to please vote to keep the Humboldt st. bike lanes. I 
had a severe bicycle accident 5 years ago just two blocks from my home in San Mateo, so safety is a very 
personal issue for me. 
The Humboldt bike lanes are a critical part of a safe, continuous bike network across San Mateo. They 
connect homes, schools, downtown areas, and bus and train transit, and they’re identified as the #2 
priority project in the San Mateo Bike Master Plan. Just as importantly, Humboldt st. connects directly to 
the only three bike routes over 101 in San Mateo (Peninsula Ave, Monte Diablo Ave, and 3rd Ave), making 
it a key link in the city. 
Safety is a big reason I support keeping them. Humboldt is a truck route where observed speeds average 
around 35 mph—well above the 25 mph speed limit. Before these improvements, this corridor was one 
of the most dangerous streets in San Mateo County for all users. The bike lanes add essential protection 
not just for people biking, but also for pedestrians and drivers. 
The lanes are also clearly being used. There are more than 10,000 bike trips per month on Humboldt, 
which shows that this isn’t a theoretical improvement—it’s serving real people every day. 
They’re especially important for families. The Humboldt bike lanes enable Safe Routes to Schools for 
four schools serving over 10,000 students, including the new Fiesta Gardens K–8 school—the first 
neighborhood school in North Central in more than 20 years. 
Beyond safety and access, keeping the bike lanes supports goals the city has already committed to: 
reducing greenhouse gas emissions and vehicle miles traveled, and advancing Vision Zero. Removing the 
middle section would break up the network and create dangerous, disconnected bike lanes, 
undermining those goals. 
There’s also a practical, financial angle. Removing the bike lanes would cost taxpayers more than $1.3 
million and could jeopardize future grant funding. That’s a lot of money to spend to make the street less 
safe and less functional. 
I respectfully ask you to vote to prioritize safety and sustainable transportation by keeping the Humboldt 
st. bike lanes. 
Thank you for your time and for your service to our community. 
190 of 368

--- page 191 ---
2
Sincerely, 
Jake Adger 
San Mateo 
 
 
191 of 368

--- page 192 ---
1
From:
Val Armento <
>
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 9:30 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
North Central Bike Lanes
The City Council has created an untenable situation in North Central San Mateo. 
 
There is a long history of not treating the North Central area fairly and the bike lane 
fiasco is simply adding to that unfortunate legacy.  
 
Now that individuals are elected to the City Council by district, they seem to think they 
can ignore the concerns of those not in their districts.  
 
Restore the very badly needed parking in North Central and stop wasting money on 
rarely used bike lanes. 
 
Valerie Armento 
San Mateo  
192 of 368

--- page 193 ---
1
From:
Gail Bagby 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 9:12 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Return of Parking to North County !
Please listen!  Thank You �
�
�
�  
193 of 368

--- page 194 ---
1
From:
joanne bennett 
Sent:
Monday, February 2, 2026 9:53 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Humboldt Street Bikes Lanes - Return Parking
Good Morning Mayor Loraine & Council Members Nicole Fernandez, 
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki, Lisa Diaz Nash and Rob Newsom 
 
As a longtime North Central resident I am humbly asking all of you to return our much needed parking along 
Humboldt Street. 
 
No where in this city or perhaps maybe even the county has 200 plus parking spaces been removed in a single 
neighborhood to accommodate a bike lane. 
North Central was certainly NOT the neighborhood to do this as parking has been a well known issue for decades and has 
cost hardships to our residents.  I will also add that I personally do not trust the outcomes of the studies and surveys that 
were done to determine usage and feel those studies are flawed.  The usage does not warrant the sacrifice our 
neighborhood has endured for over two years. 
 
From what I have seen on a daily basis the bike lanes are not being sufficiently used.  If it was being sufficiently used most 
of us would be willing to accept the parking loss.  Plain and simple fact it is NOT.  Perhaps because Humboldt St. is an 
arterial street that connects to at least three/four US 101 off/on ramps at Peninsula, Poplar, Third Ave and Fourth Avenue 
may be the reason for lack of bicycle use??  Also I will point out the many proponents of the bike lanes that continually 
have stated and have a false sense of safety in the belief that a simple painted line on the pavement will protect 
them.  Recent tragic accidents in San Mateo and other surrounding cities have proven this wrong. 
 
I will end this by saying I have nothing against bicyclists or bike lanes.  Just please give us back our parking! 
 
Thank you, 
 
Joanne Bennett 
 
 
 
 
 
 
194 of 368

--- page 195 ---
1
From:
Frances Boscacci 
Sent:
Saturday, January 31, 2026 12:00 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Return parking spaces. ! 
How can you possibly take parking spaces to create bike lanes?!! Please return these spaces to the 
residents of San Mateo! 
Please plan good bike lanes, not sloppy ones!!  
 
I’m a resident of the Beresford Park area who really cares about keeping San Mateo a great place to live. 
 
 
Thank you!  
 
Frances  
 
 
 
 
195 of 368

--- page 196 ---
1
From:
Nicole Cherok 
Sent:
Sunday, February 1, 2026 6:02 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
vote on bike lanes
Hello, 
 
I stand with the residents of North Central and ask you to vote to restore their street parking. 
 
I also want to let you know that it's very difficult to find parking to frequent the businesses at Poplar and 
Ellsworth. In addition the people who live in that neighborhood have a very difficult time finding parking. 
The owner of Top Hat Cleaners told me that many hard working people live in that neighborhood, the 
ones who clean our houses and take care of our yards. 
These people live many to a house and have to leave their cars running all night long so that they will not 
be towed while parked in bike lanes. This is a waste of gas and a  hardship for them! 
 
 I rarely see anyone using these bike paths. Has there been any assessment of how popular they are? 
There has to be a way to have better balance between parking for residents, businesses, and those who 
want to ride their bikes.  
 
Regards, 
Dr. Nicole Cherok 
 
Cherok Chiropractic 
 
196 of 368

--- page 197 ---
1
From:
P Chiang 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 11:38 AM
To:
Nicole Fernandez; City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Petition to remove the Humboldt Bike Lane
Dear City Council Members, 
 
This is the first time in my life writing to the city officials. What I'd like to point out is 
we all remember the redlining real estate history of San Mateo, with the Humboldt Bike  
Lane installation, we can all see the negative effects in the North Central neighborhood. 
For example, more paved front yard for parking instead of gardens, more cones or trash 
cans out to 'reserve' parking spaces and, of course, more dispute among neighbors fighting 
for very limited parking spaces, worse yet with vehicles parked blocking or partially blocking  
the driveway. Also can you imagine some people having to circle the streets after work to  
find a parking spot and then walk blocks to go home everyday? 
 
You are the ones in position to have an impact on the lives of all residents, and I hope you'd 
right the wrong by removing the under used bike lanes to prevent the neighborhood from 
going downhill. 
 
Thank you! 
 
Sincerely, 
Peason Chiang 
 
197 of 368

--- page 198 ---
Climate Action California • PO Box 20001 • Oakland, CA 94620 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
January 30, 2026 
 
 
Mayor Adam Loraine and members of the San Mateo City Council 
San Mateo City Hall 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Re: February 2, 2026 agenda item no. 7  
Please move forward with Humboldt bike lanes Alternative no. 2 
Dear Mayor Lorraine and Council members: 
Climate Action California is a grassroots climate advocacy group with more than 7,000 supporters 
around the state, all concerned about the adverse impacts of global heating on our planet. On behalf of 
our Transportation Team, I write in support of keeping the Humboldt Street bike lanes (City Council 
Agenda Item no. 7, February 2, 2026 regular meeting). Specifically, we support Alternative 2, “Keep-As-Is 
with Additional Humboldt Street Calming Measures + Streetlighting Upgrades + Explore Permit Parking 
Program.” 
Transportation is the largest single source of climate-warming emissions in California, responsible for 
over 38 percent of the state’s total emissions and over 50 percent of emissions in San Mateo County. 
More than 70 percent of trips in San Mateo County are currently taken by solo drivers. Along with 
vehicle electrification, reduction of vehicle miles traveled (VMT) is a vital part of the state’s strategy to 
reduce transportation emissions. The California Air Resources Board (CARB) has set a target of reducing 
VMT 24 percent below 2001 levels by 2030, and 29 percent below 2001 levels by 2045.  
Reducing VMT to meet our state’s goals can be achieved only if we enhance both public transportation 
and active transportation, including bicycling. Removing bike lanes to restore street parking to 
Humboldt Street would encourage even more solo driving and run counter to the state’s emissions and 
VMT reduction targets. Keeping the Humboldt Street bike lanes and making them safer with the 
addition of traffic calming measures and better lighting will encourage more biking on this important 
street. Addressing businesses’ concerns by exploring parking permits should address at least some of the 
concerns about lost parking spaces.  
198 of 368

--- page 199 ---
The transition to low-emissions transportation is going to require all of us to make changes in our lives
and routines. Council action to encourage active transportation and add parking permits to the
commercial area are both measures that will ease the inevitable change.

Please instruct staff to work on Alternative 2. We look forward to participating in the Council’s further
deliberations on this subject.

Sincerely,

Janet Cox
CEO
Climate Action California

199 of 368


--- page 200 ---
1
From:
Sent:
Saturday, January 31, 2026 5:34 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
2 Feb 2026 Council Meeting Agenda Item #7 Humboldt Bike Lanes Alternative
Honorable Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
 
Regarding the pending decisions about the Humboldt Street bike lanes, I encourage you to consider the 
following carefully. 
 
As much of a squabble as this issue has been, in a broader view it is not about bikes and parking places. It is 
about who controls narratives to get what they want from the city. 
 
Although I am President and CEO of Ethics San Mateo, a California Nonprofit Public Benefit corporation, and 
there potentially are some ethical issues in the proceedings and alliances, I am writing this as an individual.  
 
I am not going to state whether I support or oppose either the removal of the bike lanes and restoration of street 
parking on Humboldt. Why? Because I do not live in North Central and I don’t ride a bike in that area. The 
residents of North Central, especially those on Humboldt and surrounding streets, are the people who feel the 
impact from the lack of parking, not me, and certainly not the special interests. The thoughts of people who 
actually ride a bicycle on Humbolt are to be considered. When representatives and members of bicycle special 
interest groups call for a mass biking demonstration, or when posing for a staged newspaper picture, that so-
called proof of bike lane usage cannot be considered. When on the day of official surveys by the city, there is a 
huge surge of bikes reported without apparent reason, it smells of manipulation, perhaps a leak of information 
about the date of the survey? You must ignore data which is demonstrably flawed. Come on, some supporters of 
the bike lanes have stated there are 10,000 bike trips per month. Get real. 
 
I do care about this because it is a clear case of not considering residents’ voices as being most important. It is 
about loud voices of special interests trying to control a narrative. We have seen this scenario over and over. It 
is time to put a stop to the subrogation of our residents in favor of big money interests. Time to stop the political 
shenanigans in using this as a rally cry by those seeking support for the next election.  
 
I remind you of an Ethics Watch published by Ethics San Mateo on March 30, 2023, detailing council’s 
discussion and facts regarding the bike lanes. The then-members of the city council agreed mistakes were made 
that had to be remedied. Three years later the city has accomplished nothing, except spending staff time, money 
and causing divisive conversations.  
 
Since the early days of the debates over these bike lanes the pile-on of politicians, and the special interest 
groups of which they seek approval, has become a painful scrum to the residents of North Central. The 
demographics of the neighborhood tell the story. Just look at the census tract data. In 2019 70% of householders 
were non-white. The population was over 7,700 and there was a median income of just over $24,000. That is 
200 of 368

--- page 201 ---
2
about $30,000 in 2026-dollar spending power with inflation. 
(https://datacommons.org/place/geoId/06081606200) 
 
North Central is an Equity Priority Neighborhood. That’s why the HUD Community Development Block Grant 
Program exists. It is to right a wrong, the lack of investment in these underserved neighborhoods, not to 
provide a bike lane for special interest groups to tout as a win. 
 
As a reminder, and for clarification for those who do not understand the meaning of the designation, an Equity 
Priority Neighborhood is a specific geographic area identified by planners as having a high concentration of 
underserved populations, including low-income households and people of color, who have historically faced 
disinvestment. Have you lost sight of this? Do you want to appear to be turning a blind eye, as your 
predecessors a century ago did? 
 
If, indeed, the lives of the residents of North Central were improved overall by the bike lanes, I doubt if this 
fevered debate would be taking place. If children were observed filling the lanes before and after school, it 
would be great. If on any given day, with good weather, families could be seen in mass enjoying a ride, I would 
suppose, in the words of a City of San Mateo Sustainability and Infrastructure Commissioner, the 
“inconvenienced” residents just might have a more temperate tone.  
 
The studies, surveys and purported observations by city staff simply make no sense. I have heard from people 
who live in North Central, or travel consistently on Humbolt, or have firsthand knowledge, or have recorded the 
bike lane traffic. I have listened to the supporters of the bike lanes. I have driven the length of the Humboldt 
Street bike lanes a number of times on good weather days at various times and have seen no more than three 
bicycles. On one occasion, one of two were on the sidewalk. Yes, my observations were a very small sampling, 
but if one were to believe the astronomical number of bicyclists using the lanes that are being touted, I certainly 
would have seen more than two or three. 
 
The opponents and supporters of the restoration of parking, a potential loss of bike lanes, bring many 
arguments. I see a lot of distractions. No one will argue that any injury or death for ANY reason or means is not 
sad or tragic for any avoidable traffic incident, especially when resulting in a death. Accusing those who want 
restoration of parking as not caring about injuries or deaths is a heartless tactic to gain sympathy for their cause. 
It is as cold-blooded telling disabled and elderly people that having to park blocks away from their home is a 
mere “inconvenience.” It is also simply inhumane to use any tragic event for political purposes. It, however, 
seems to be a “go-to” for those pushing their agendas and ideology.  
 
North Central is an example of a failure to plan for future growth. Over 8,000 people live in an area that was 
designed for lifestyles and the day-to-day activities of the 1940’s and 50’s. The special interest groups, as well 
as city officials and staff, need to stop blaming the residents for a problem they did not create. Some have two 
families living in their houses, a fact that some use for an argument of why parking is an issue - yet the city is 
encouraging ADUs so more people can live on a single R1 lot. Please say goodbye to that argument, and the 
cultural/racial overtones it carries.  
 
It is also an area where, in time past, minority residents were concentrated due to unfair, racist, and simply 
abhorrent acts of lenders and developers aided by our local governments by their turning a blind eye to the 
201 of 368

--- page 202 ---
3
discrimination. This undoubtedly led to the conditions warranting the current designation of an Equity Priority 
Designation even with the elimination of the previous exclusionary and cruel policies. 
 
Street parking is NOT “Free Parking.” Residents pay taxes that provide for roadways that accommodate curb 
parking. The arguments using statements that residents are just trying to get “Free Parking” must be ignored. It 
is only one of many distractions from the real issue. If any neighborhood deserves street parking, it is North 
Central. Again, this area was not built to accommodate the modern-day requirements imposed on many of the 
residents. Using them as pawns in a power struggle is unacceptable. The removal of the bike lanes on Humbolt 
does not constitute a loss of anything to all but a few people who might be slightly inconvenienced by having to 
take alternative, perhaps safer, routes while riding. The residents of North Central can easily show the harm and 
losses caused by the removal of parking. And PLEASE do not try to accuse me of not caring about tragic 
events. I am the very last person that could be considered callous. I have risked my life for others many, many 
times. 
 
There is talk of a compromise. Perhaps a compromise for political purposes and convenience is upon us as the 
election cycle begins? A compromise makes no one whole. The discontent of even a partial loss causes nothing 
but a drive to take on the battle again. Reference the remarks made by former members of the City Council 
regarding the passage of Measure Y a few years ago. “We will continue to fight” is a quote from a video that is 
widely available. They promised to continue the fight against the principles of the voter passed mandate, and 
guess what – they finally won with Measure T. Councilmembers, remember that as the North Central 
neighborhood becomes more and more unlivable because of outside interests. 
 
Do you really believe this vociferous battle is over a few blocks of green paint? No, it certainly is not. It is about 
the power of big money and special interests working to conquer the underserved neighborhoods, or anywhere 
they desire to profit from. It is about them growing in strength and influence with each win. It is about who can 
manipulate the city for their benefit. 
 
Are you going to vote to show you put the voices and needs of actual residents first, to protect seniors, disabled, 
and working-class residents or will you vote to get support from those who do not care about them for your next 
election? 
 
Why, if I don’t oppose or support the restoration of parking, am I asking you this? Well, I figure once a 
politician makes it known their re-election is more important than their constituency, we’re all in trouble. 
 
Dave Cohen 
 
202 of 368

--- page 203 ---
1
From:
Michael Crocker 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 11:12 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Save the Humboldt Bike Lanes
Dear City Council Members, 
 
My name is Michael Crocker; I live in Foster city and use this bike lane when I come to San Mateo to enjoy 
your relatively lively downtown (shops, restaurants, walkable spaces). 
 
Please do not drag us back to the past. This bike lane saves lives. The only viable future for our 
communities (safety, environment, quality of life) encourages the use of non-driving modes of transit. 
This sort of regressive, anti-social policy is lock-step cooperation with right-wing extremists and is only 
metastasizing into spaces such as our communities because of clever center-shifting tactics of the 
current far right.  
 
Thank you, 
 
Michael 
203 of 368

--- page 204 ---
1
From:
Ann Dorsey 
Sent:
Saturday, January 31, 2026 9:24 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Make safety a priority
Councilmembers, 
I urge you to keep bicyclists safe by rejecting the proposal to remove bike lanes from Humbolt Avenue, the 
most dangerous street in the city. The bike lanes are next to three schools that combined serve 10,000 
students. There is a very real need for the bike lanes to stay as they are. Please do not waste precious city 
funds to remove them. There are far better uses for the $2 million. 
 
Thank you, 
 
Ann Dorsey   
204 of 368

--- page 205 ---
1
From:
James Ford 
Sent:
Saturday, January 31, 2026 12:03 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Clerk
Subject:
Comment on Humboldt Bike Lanes Alternative — Update, Agenda No. 7, 2/2/26
Dear Council, 
 
I urge you to align with the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission’s unanimous recommendation 
in favor of Alternative #2, namely to keep the existing bike lanes on Humboldt Street in place and pursue 
street lighting upgrades for the neighborhood.  
 
Pedestrian and cyclist safety is paramount; cities across the Peninsula are witnessing a sharp increase 
in the number of teenagers utilizing bikes to get to and from school and extracurricular activities and so 
the City Council should affirm the importance of safe bike routes in the region. While bike boulevards 
sound like a viable option in theory, in reality they do little to slow traffic or discourage aggressive, 
dangerous driving habits. I encourage the City Council to instead explore a residential parking permit 
program for the North Central neighborhood to deter frequent long-term and commercial parking on city-
owned streets. Finally, spending roughly $1.5 million to dismantle critical safety infrastructure is not a 
fiscally prudent move. As the City Council prepares to ask residents for a quarter-cent sales tax increase 
this November, this bike lane vote serves as a referendum on our leadership’s fiscal stewardship of 
limited taxpayer resources. 
 
Thank you, 
James 
205 of 368

--- page 206 ---
1
From:
Alyson Geller 
Sent:
Monday, February 2, 2026 9:38 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
2M to rip out life-saving bike lanes around schools? Dn't do it!
Dear Council Members, 
 
This plan is reckless and backwards. At a time when we need to be building and fully protecting bike 
lanes and other modes of transportation, especially for our most vulnerable populations, you want to 
put in more parking spaces for multi-ton vehicles that threaten lives and community wellbeing? San 
Mateo High, College Park/Fiesta Gardens Elementary, and San Mateo Adult Schools are located on 
the most dangerous streets in the City. Destroying a proven solution like bike lanes is an invitation to 
more tragedy. Infrastructure that encourages safe biking and walking - for children as well as adults - 
while also reducing congestion, pollution, and other negative effects of car culture -- promotes a 
strong, connected, and thriving community. Cities across the US are seeing the benefits of protected 
bike networks. Why wouldn't San Mateo want to be a part of this trend, rather than the backward-
facing, costly move of tearing out bike lanes? 
 
Please do the right thing and maintain the bike lanes -- in fact -- build more, and make them fully 
protected. 
 
Thank you, 
Aly Geller  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Aly Geller 
Support Services Manager 
Families for Safe Streets 
 
 
 
Share your story on the National Story Map 
 
 
 
 
 M
 
 
 
m
 
 
 
 
 
m 
 
 
206 of 368

--- page 207 ---
1
From:
Gary Germano 
Sent:
Sunday, February 1, 2026 9:01 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Parking and Bike Lanes
Dear City Council members, 
 
This is a request that you absolutely do not remove current residential neighborhood parking spaces to create 
bike lanes.  
 
The bike lanes we currently have on Alameda de las Pulgas and El Camino Real with the right lanes clearly 
marked with  bicycle lane markings on the asphalt are sufficient to do the job, especially since we see very, 
very, very few bicyclists . That  type can be used. 
 
It is bad enough that you no longer require onsite parking as a requisite for adding accessory dwelling units, 
which is quite a neighborhood degrading issue in and of itself. Where would you expect residents to park? 
 
In case you haven't noticed, there are currently some San Mateo neighborhoods where you may have to park 
one, two, or more blocks away from the resident you are visiting  because all of the parking spaces are taken! 
 
How would you like someone else's car parking in front of your own house daily and on the weekends? 
 
We need to have respect for residents and homeowners in all of San Mateo's neighborhoods. 
 
Please, no removal of parking spaces for bike lanes! 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Gary Germano 
San Mateo  
207 of 368

--- page 208 ---
1
From:
ROB GIBSON 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 10:02 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Humboldt parking
Dear Council Members, As I have Iived on Humboldt Street since 2013 I think I bring something 
relevant to the bike lane conversation. I have not seen an increase in bike riding anywhere near the 
claims of the bicycle coalition.  
We tried the experiment and it didn't work.  
Therefore I ask for the return of the parking spaces to Humboldt Street. 
Respectfully, 
Rob Gibson 
 
208 of 368

--- page 209 ---
From:
Sent:
Sunday, February 1, 2026 1:15 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Restore parking on Humbolt--relocate west side bike lane, keep East side lane.
Good Morning…..The well intenƟoned Humbolt bike lanes have been a major problem since incepƟon, and 
conƟnue to cause signiﬁcant and ongoing disrupƟon to the neighborhood. While other bike lanes have 
created challenges, this one stands out as uniquely harmful due to its locaƟon, traﬃc demands, and loss of 
criƟcal parking. 
 
We support bike lanes—but the current conﬁguraƟon has caused disproporƟonate harm to seniors and 
residents with disabiliƟes, many of whom have been signiﬁcantly impacted by the eliminaƟon of parking 
and reduced access to their homes.  
 
A pracƟcal alternaƟve exists: keep the east-side bike lane parallel to traﬃc and relocate the west-side lane 
to a nearby street, creaƟng one-way bike lanes. This soluƟon is not ideal, but it is safer, more funcƟonal, 
and far less damaging to vulnerable residents. Or do one-way streets. 
 
Thank you for your hard work in trying to address this challenging issue.  We sincerely appreciate your 
eﬀorts. 
 
Respecƞully submiƩed, 
Tom and Carol GilleƩ 
 
 
 
 
 
209 of 368

--- page 210 ---
1
From:
georgette 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 11:07 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Removal of parking spaces in North Central San Mateo
I urge Council to reconsider the plan to remove 200 parking spaces for additional bike lanes. 
Unfortunately, Council’s similar past decisions leading to the addition of additional bike lanes in the 
City has added to the increasing traffic problem.  Additionally, oftentimes I’ve witnessed    Cyclists 
ignoring their bike lanes and placing themselves in the middle of the road without care nor 
consciousness and slowing down vehicles and the flow of traffic.  Not abiding by the rules of the road 
that also pertain to them with no enforcement as police officers have enough to do without monitoring 
cyclysts. 
 
Some reasonableness should be employed on the part of our city government going forward. 
 
georgette guerra, resident 
210 of 368

--- page 211 ---
1
From:
Douglas Handerson 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 2:53 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo); City Mgr
Subject:
Letter submitted for City Council packet for February 2, 2026 regarding Humboldt Bike 
Lanes
CONTACT INFORMATION
First Name
Doug
Last Name
Handerson
Address
City
San Mateo
State
CA
Zip Code
San Mateo City Council, 
Let's Change our Priorities 
 
City Council must act this Monday, February 2, not by investing new funds 
in Humboldt bike-lanes redesign measures for our North Central 
neighborhood, but, instead by changing focus to: 
 
1) Stripe locations of parking spaces on streets near Humboldt's bike-
lanes; 
 
 
2) Protect pedestrians and cyclists. Enforce the the State-required safety 
distance at intersections near Humboldt. Fund daytime towing, in addition 
to ticketing; 
 
3) Tow chronically-unmoved vehicles near Humboldt, such vehicles that 
are now either ticketed on street-sweeping days, or are ignored by City-
contracted enforcement personnel; 
 
4) Concentrate future funding on streets where bicyclists and speeding 
two-wheeled motorized vehicles already travel, such as on Monte Diablo 
Avenue near Humboldt; 
 
5) Install “Walk-bicycles” enforcement signing for the entrances to the 
Monte Diablo/Highway 101 pedestrian over-crossing to protect senior 
walkers on the ramps from bicyclists and motorized vehicles that are 
already using that route to access neighborhoods easterly of Bayshore 
Freeway. 
 
One hopes future City Councils will realize that by replacing street parking 
with bike-lanes, the well-meaning City causes many residents to pave over 
water-catching turf areas in order to continue to meet their parking needs.
211 of 368

--- page 212 ---
2
With nowhere else to go, the increased water rushing into the streets from 
this paving will necessitate costly infrastructure improvements, necessary 
to protect residents from additional flooding. 
 
And, more water will raise the levels of the Bay and lead to even more 
frequent dredging there. 
 
Council, please do not defer action on urgent community requests. Please 
re-focus funding now. 
 
Doug Handerson 
San Mateo, CA
 
212 of 368

--- page 213 ---
(OO

From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Douglas Handerson
Friday, January 30, 2026 2:49 AM

; City Council (San Mateo); City Mgr

Fwd: Letter to the Editor Receipt

Regarding February 2, 2026 Humboldt Bike Lanes City Council Agenda Item,

January 30, 2026

CONTACT INFORMATION

First Name Doug

Last Name Handerson
Address PY
City San Mateo
State CA

Zip Code Po

San Mateo City Council,
Let's Change our Priorities

City Council must act this Monday, February 2, not by
investing new funds in Humboldt bike-lanes redesign
measures for our North Central neighborhood, but,
instead by changing focus to:

1) Stripe locations of parking spaces on streets near
Humboldt's bike-lanes;

2) Protect pedestrians and cyclists. Enforce the the
State-required safety distance at intersections near
Humboldt. Fund daytime towing, in addition to ticketing;

3) Tow chronically-unmoved vehicles near Humboldt,
such vehicles that are now either ticketed on street-
sweeping days, or are ignored by City-contracted
enforcement personnel;

4) Concentrate future funding on streets where
bicyclists and speeding two-wheeled motorized vehicles
already travel, such as on Monte Diablo Avenue near
Humboldt:

5) Install “Walk-bicycles” enforcement signing for the

213 of 368


--- page 214 ---
entrances to the Monte Diablo/Highway 101 pedestrian
over-crossing to protect senior walkers on the ramps
from bicyclists and motorized vehicles that are already
using that route to access neighborhoods easterly of
Bayshore Freeway.

One hopes future City Councils will realize that by
replacing street parking with bike-lanes, the well-
meaning City causes many residents to pave over
water-catching turf areas in order to continue to meet
their parking needs.

With nowhere else to go, the increased water rushing
into the streets from this paving will necessitate costly
infrastructure improvements, necessary to protect
residents from additional flooding.

And, more water will raise the levels of the Bay and
lead to even more frequent dredging there.

Council, please do not defer action on urgent
community requests. Please re-focus funding now.

Doug Handerson
San Mateo, CA

214 of 368


--- page 215 ---
1
From:
Catherine Hart 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 10:32 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Return parking to the residents
Please return parking to the residents. 
 
Removing parking in every other Bay Area city has been met with resentment. Please consider the 
happiness of our residents.  
 
Most people cannot handle the disruption of the pk lanes as they have already explained to you. 
 
Catherine Hart 
San Mateo 
215 of 368

--- page 216 ---
1
From:
Sent:
Saturday, January 31, 2026 5:44 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
2/2/26 Council meeting - Humboldt Bike Lanes
Councilmembers, 
 
Please remove the bike lanes on North Humboldt St. and restore the badly needed on street parking 
to the neighborhood. Please don't perpetuate what was a clear mistake. Please don't make the 
neighborhood continue to suffer from a poor Council decision.  Please bite the bullet and make things 
right for long time San Mateo residents.  
 
Karen Herrel 
62 year San Mateo resident 
216 of 368

--- page 217 ---
From:
Michelle Hudson 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 6:16 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Clerk
Cc:
Robert Whitehair
Subject:
Retain the Humboldt Bike Lanes
Dear San Mateo City Council, 
 
I am writing to oppose removing the Humboldt bike lanes. The safety of our community members, 
including thousands of children, and climate commitments must come before additional free parking.  
 
The tragic death of a pedestrian who was struck by a car at the intersection of El Camino and 17th Ave 
last week is a stark reminder of the dangers of cars to pedestrians and bikers. My teenage son and his 
friends frequently cross that same intersection, going after their workouts at the 24 Hour Fitness gym to 
Safeway. It is horribly obvious that this intersection needs safety improvements, as does our entire city to 
protect our residents, particularly those who don't or can't drive. Voting to remove the Humboldt bike 
lanes would demonstrate a callous disregard for the safety of our community, particularly our most 
vulnerable community members. Please retain the Humboldt bike lanes. Please expand our network of 
safe bike lanes in San Mateo. Please prioritize pedestrian safety improvements.  
 
Apart from the safety reasons set forth above, the Humboldt bike lanes should be retained to meet our 
City's climate commitments. We must chip away at GHGs emissions from transportation - the largest 
source of GHGs in our City, to meet our Climate Action Plan's targets.  
 
Please do the right thing for public safety, equity and the climate and retain the Humboldt bike lanes.  
 
Thank you, 
 
Michelle Hudson 
Co-Leader of 350 Silicon Valley San Mateo Climate Action Team 
San Mateo Resident 
 
 
217 of 368

--- page 218 ---
1
From:
Sent:
Sunday, February 1, 2026 11:41 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Bike Lanes and North Central
Dear City Council, 
 
I am advocating for a return of parking to the North Central Residents. This issue is 
one that will likely impact a lot of other neighborhoods in the future as well. Lets take a 
hard look at the future of San Mateo and what’s best for the whole community. The 
piece below looks at the direction the City is heading:  
 
Bike Lane Controversy: Ideology vs Common Sense 
 
There has been a push by the city of San Mateo to add bike lanes by reducing or 
replacing car lanes and/or parking with bike lanes: This happened in North Central 
along Humboldt and Poplar; now, along 19th Avenue and Fashion Island Blvd. a 
second car lane would be precluded; and another project along Delaware could 
negatively impact congestion.  
 
The facts: The number of households with 2 or more cars has increased substantially 
from 22% in 1960 to 60% in 2023 and there are 40,000 households. Thirteen large 
development proposals have been submitted in San Mateo including the partial 
Hillsdale Shopping demolition adding 1392 housing units; The Concar/Delaware 
redevelopment adding 869 housing units; a 14 story building on Fourth and El Camino 
with 236 residential units. This Means a lot more cars on the road.  
 
Less than 1% of San Mateo’s population rides bicycles as a form of transportation and 
commuting in lieu of cars and this has not increased in 20 years even with adding bike 
paths. How often do you see bike riders including recreation bikers and in large 
numbers? This is not San Francisco.  
 
218 of 368

--- page 219 ---
2
Looks like the strategy is “if you build it they will come”. There is more safety in wider 
and more bike lanes, but I doubt that will seriously encourage more transportation 
bikers. Continue this strategy and traffic congestion and parking availability will only get 
a lot worse.  
 
Also, putting in expensive bike lanes to gain marginal safety improvements for a very 
small number of bikers while compromising traffic and parking makes no sense. At 
some point, it is really the responsibility of bikers to watch out for their own safety, not 
the city. 
 
BTW, I am a bike rider.  
 
Respectfully,  
 
Gary Isoardi 
 
219 of 368

--- page 220 ---
1
From:
Chuck Kabala 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 10:48 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Parking
Hello!  Please return parking to the North Central 
neighborhood.  As a bike rider myself I appreciate bike lanes, but 
with all the residential building going on in San Mateo we need 
PARKING spaces more!!  Thank you, Elizabeth Kabala 
220 of 368

--- page 221 ---
1
From:
Stacey Kepler 
Sent:
Sunday, February 1, 2026 1:04 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Keep Humboldt bike lanes!
Hello, 
I’m wriƟng to express support to keep the Humboldt street bike lanes. It feels incredibly dangerous to walk and bike in 
San Mateo. We need bike lanes to allow people to get to school and get around safely. The city should be invesƟng 
money in more bike lanes and other supports to keep pedestrians safe like improving intersecƟon design and increased 
police patrol. 
 
I’m asking you to keep the Humboldt st bike lanes and invest in safety of all who use our streets (not just cars!). 
 
Thank you, 
Stacey  
Central neighborhood resident   
221 of 368

--- page 222 ---
1
From:
CHRIS KETNER 
Sent:
Saturday, January 31, 2026 8:39 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
More bike lanes not removals
Please make San Mateo beƩer than not just an average traﬃc clogged mess. 
iPhone typing dispensaƟon please! 
Regards, 
Chris Ketner 
 
 
222 of 368

--- page 223 ---
1
From:
Phil King 
Sent:
Thursday, January 29, 2026 4:15 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Humboldt Bike Lanes 
Hello San Mateo City Council members  
I am wriƟng to express my support for safe bike and pedestrian infrastructure along Humboldt St. My daughter and I 
have joined a few city council meeƟngs over the past couple years to talk about how much we value safe routes to our 
elementary school. It is a challenge to balance the needs of each diﬀerent consƟtuency that relies on Humboldt St,  but I 
believe pedestrians and families on bikes deserve the most protecƟon. Making streets safer for people on foot and on 
bikes tends to make roads safer for everyone.  
 
Parking remains a challenge for everyone who lives in North Central, but it is clear that street parking is not a right. I 
don’t own the spaces in front of my house, nor does anyone on Humboldt. The city should create a free resistant permit 
system and enforce it vigorously. Anecdotally there are many disabled and unused cars parked along Humboldt and 
elsewhere in the neighborhood (and all neighborhoods, frankly).  
 
There are so many school children and families who can beneﬁt from safe routes to school - and another school is being 
built! We implore you to seek other soluƟons that ease parking for the few who are impacted severely and create safe 
spaces for the thousand+ kids and family members who aƩend Fiesta Gardens, San Mateo High, and the adult school.  
 
Thank you 
 
Phil King 
 
223 of 368

--- page 224 ---
1
From:
Deborah Kohn 
Sent:
Sunday, February 1, 2026 3:56 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Please note!
I am asking for the return of parking to North Central residents. 
 
--  
Deborah Kohn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
224 of 368

--- page 225 ---
1
From:
Theresa Kong 
Sent:
Thursday, January 29, 2026 11:08 PM
To:
Lisa Diaz Nash; Rob Newsom; Adam Loraine; Nicole Fernandez; Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Cc:
Clerk; City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
I support keeping the Humboldt Bike Lanes
Hi City Council, 
 
Please include this public comment in the packet for the upcoming 2/2/26 City Council Meeting. 
 
I am a San Mateo resident and support keeping the Humboldt bike lanes for the following reasons: 
 
The Humboldt Bike Lanes: 
 
 
Create a safe, continuous bike network across San Mateo, connecting homes, schools, 
downtowns, and bus/train transit as the #2 project on the San Mateo Bike Master Plan 
 
Are directly connected to the only 3 bike routes over the 101 in San Mateo (Peninsula Ave, Monte 
Diablo Ave, 3rd Ave), connecting eastern and western San Mateo 
 
Provide essential protection on a truck route where over served speeds are 35 mph- well above 
the 25mph speed limit (source: SM Dept of Public Works) 
 
Improve driver, pedestrian, and bicyclist safety on a corridor that was once the 5th most 
dangerous street in San Mateo County for all sources of travel (source: CCAG) 
 
Are widely used, with over 10,000 bike trips per month (source: SM Dept of Public Works) 
 
Enable Safe Routes to Schools for 4 schools serving 10,000+ students, including the new Fiesta 
Gardens K-8 school, the first neighborhood school in North Central in over 20 years 
 
Reduce greenhouse gases and vehicle miles traveled, key priorities for the City of San Mateo, San 
Mateo County, and the State of California 
 
Are supported by the majority of residents on Humboldt St, North Central and across San Mateo 
(source: SM Dept of Public Works) 
 
Are supported by 17 PTSs, SMFCSD board members, and the City of San Mateo Sustainability & 
Infrastructure Commission 
 
Save taxpayer money-removal would cost $1.3M+ and would jeopardize future grant funding 
 
Preserve safety- removing the middle section would create dangerous, disconnected bike lanes 
 
Further San Mateo’s commitment to Vision Zero made in 2015 and embedded into the City of San 
Mateo’s 2040 General Plan in 2024 
 
Please vote to prioritize safety and sustainable transportation in the City of San Mateo on February 2nd. 
 
 
Theresa Kong 
 
225 of 368

--- page 226 ---
1
From:
landucci 
Sent:
Sunday, February 1, 2026 3:02 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
We loved bike lane on Humboldt that we used this morning to get to Coyote Point
We loved the bike lane on Humboldt that we used this morning and other days to get to Coyote 
Point.  It is safe and bike friendly. 
We ride bikes a lot but also drive and parking can be a problem. 
We also realize that it took away many parking spaces. 
Wish our roads were wider to accommodate both. 
To save the earth we need to push for safe bike paths. 
Al Landucci and Steven Liu. 
226 of 368

--- page 227 ---
1
From:
Andrew Lomano 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 12:40 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Please do not take our parking
Dear Honorable Council Members,  
 
Please do not vote to take the parking that we so desperately need in our working society.  There may be a day when 
everyone ditches their personal vehicle for a robo-taxi and we will not need cars of our own taking up space. THAT is 
NOT today.  
Do not fall prey to these outsiders; a coalition of outsiders that do not necessarily reside in San Mateo. They will stop at 
nothing until our lives and lifestyles we are invested into are but a shell of the desirable living that San Mateo was once 
known for. They ruined their own backyard in San Francisco, now they have descended upon us. Stand strong with every 
fiber of your being and save our street parking for our residents.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
Andrew Lomano 
227 of 368

--- page 228 ---
1
From:
Marla Lowenthal 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 12:26 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Humboldt bike lanes - No
Hi, 
 
I’ve lived on Humboldt for almost 20 years and as a homeowner and biker was surprised when a bike lane was put in on 
Humboldt. The street is dangerous due to constant traﬃc seeking 101 connecƟons on Poplar and 3rd. On garbage days, 
the danger to increase as bikers have to weave around garbage cans. And the bike lane takes away much needed parking. 
I have not felt safe on it as a biker; it scares me as a driver; and I feel sorry for the people who lost access to precious 
parking. I was amazed it was approved. Please get rid of it and ﬁnd an alternaƟve bike lane or try the other side of ECR 
where there is less traﬃc.  
 
Best 
Dr Marla Lowenthal 
 
 
Sent from my iPhone 
228 of 368

--- page 229 ---
1
From:
Mary Lynagh 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 7:43 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Bike Lanes on Humbolt
I support the bike lanes on Humbolt. I cycle every day on that road. I live locally and need wide roads to 
cycle on.   
 
Mary 
 
 
229 of 368

--- page 230 ---
​1/29/2026​
​City of San Mateo City Council​
​330 20th St, San Mateo, CA 94403​
​Copy to: SMFCSD Superintendent & SMFCSD Board of Trustees​
​Dear City of San Mateo City Council,​
​We are writing on behalf of the Parent Teacher Associations (PTA) of the San Mateo Foster City School District (SMFCSD). As​
​concerned leaders of our school community, we strongly support the preservation of safe bicycle lanes on Humboldt Street in​
​San Mateo. These lanes are essential for promoting Safe Routes to Schools and advancing the goals of Vision Zero.​
​Maintaining safe, accessible bicycle infrastructure is critical to the safety and well-being of our students and families, helping​
​to create a safer, more sustainable environment for all. We urge you to prioritize these efforts for the benefit of our entire​
​community.​
​The Humboldt Street bike lanes stretch 1.6 miles, making them one of the longest and most important segments of bicycle​
​infrastructure in the City of San Mateo. These lanes directly serve four schools, benefit all schools in the district, and provide a​
​crucial connection to downtown San Mateo and public transit. Their strategic location makes them an essential part of the​
​city's bicycle network. Additionally, the Humboldt Street bike lanes enable regional connectivity to the only safe bicycle​
​overpasses over Highway 101, linking the east and west sides of San Mateo, as well as providing bike routes to Foster City and​
​Burlingame. This network is vital for the safety and mobility of cyclists throughout the region.​
​We stand with the San Mateo community in expressing our concerns about pedestrian safety along Humboldt Street and in​
​the North Central neighborhood. We firmly believe it is possible to slow down vehicle traffic without compromising the​
​existing bicycle infrastructure. Safe Routes to Schools provide children with the opportunity to safely travel to school without​
​relying on cars, helping to reduce overall vehicle congestion. The City has a range of effective tools—such as speed monitoring,​
​increased patrols, speed bumps, and other measures that can be used to reduce vehicle speeds and enhance the safety of our​
​entire community.​
​One year ago, on February 1, 2024,​​SMFCSD PTA Presidents​​signed a letter advocating for the adoption of Vision Zero​.​​In that​
​letter, we stated: "Our cities can make infrastructure improvements, such as extended red curbing, additional stop signs and​
​crosswalks, bike lanes, and other solutions." Today, we are calling on the City to preserve the safe infrastructure of the​
​Humboldt Street bike lanes, which were installed in 2022. According to data from the City of San Mateo, these lanes are used​
​for over 10,000 bicycle trips per month.​​Removing​​the Humboldt Street bike lanes and forcing cyclists to share the road with​
​vehicle traffic would undermine the goals of Safe Routes to School and Vision Zero, compromising safety for all.​
​From our letter last year, also applicable in this case: “​Every student and their caregiver deserve​​peace of mind knowing their​
​child can safely travel to and from school.​”​
​Collectively we represent thousands of families in Foster City and San Mateo who want safer streets.​
​Sincerely,​
​Lauren Tsoi  1.16.2025​
​Sunnybrae Elementary PTA President, on behalf of the PTA Association​
​Shannon McGovern 1.22.2025​
​LEAD Elementary PTA President, on behalf of the PTA Association​
230 of 368

--- page 231 ---
​Amy Connors 1.23.2025​
​Meadow Heights Elementary PTA President, on behalf of the PTA Association​
​Keshawn Womack 1.28.2025​
​Abbott Middle School PTA President, on behalf of the PTA Association​
​Dana Sahae 1.28.2025​
​Fiesta Gardens International School PTA President, on behalf of the PTA Association​
​Julie Kokes 1.29.2025​
​North Shoreview Montessori PTA President, on behalf of the PTA Association​
​Zack Horn 1.29.2025​
​George Hall Elementary PTA President, on behalf of the PTA Association​
​Lijay Shih 2.04.2025​
​Highlands Elementary PTA President, on behalf of the PTA Association​
​Helen Chen Abrams 2.18.2025​
​College Park Elementary PTA President, on behalf of the PTA Association​
​Candice Rafael 3.10.2025​
​Brewer Island Elementary PTA President, on behalf of the PTA Association​
​Karina Wilhelms 3.18.2025​
​Borel Middle School PTA President, on behalf of the PTA Association​
​Siwin Chu 3.20.2025​
​Bowditch Middle School PTA President, on behalf of the PTA Association​
​Sarah Proemsey 3.25.2025​
​Parkside Montessori School PTA President, on behalf of the PTA Association​
​Laura Martin 3.25.2025​
​Beach Park Elementary PTA President, on behalf of the PTA Association​
​Marianne Williamson 5.29.2025​
​Audubon Elementary PTA President, on behalf of the PTA Association​
​Katy Kendall 6.04.2025​
​Foster City Elementary PTA President, on behalf of the PTA Association​
​Matt Stephan 6.6.2025​
​Beresford Elementary PTA President on behalf of the PTA Association​
231 of 368

--- page 232 ---
1
From:
Allison MacQueen Felder 
Sent:
Thursday, January 29, 2026 8:47 PM
To:
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki; Nicole Fernandez; Adam Loraine; Rob Newsom; Lisa Diaz Nash
Cc:
Clerk; City Council (San Mateo); 
 
 
; President Council PTA
Subject:
SMFCSD PTA Support for Humboldt St Bike Lanes
Attachments:
Letter of Support for Humboldt St Bike Lanes - SMFCSD PTA Council - 01.29.2026.pdf
Hello, 
17 SMFCSD PTA Associations of parents, teachers, and administrators have voted in public school 
community meetings to sign the attached letter in support of the Humboldt St Bike Lanes.   
 
The letter (attached) should be included in the packet for the February 2nd, 2026 City Council Meeting. 
 
Collectively we represent thousands of families in Foster City and San Mateo who want safer streets. 
 
Thank you, 
Allison MacQueen 
SMFCSD PTA Board Member 
 
232 of 368

--- page 233 ---
1
From:
Lisa Maley 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 2:33 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Restore Humboldt Parking
 
Mayor Loraine and Councilmembers, 
 
 
I am writing as a resident of San Mateo to respectfully request that the City restore on-street 
parking along Humboldt Street. Since the removal of curb parking for the Humboldt bike lane 
project, day-to-day living for many households has become significantly more difficult. 
Residents, seniors, people with disabilities, families with young children, and our visitors now 
struggle to find reasonable parking near their homes. 
Even before the parking removal, this area already faced a tight parking supply due to older 
housing stock with limited off-street parking, multigenerational households, and high 
residential density. Eliminating large numbers of curb spaces on and around Humboldt has 
pushed those cars into surrounding streets forcing residents to circle multiple blocks or park 
far from home. This has increased tensions among neighbors, made it harder for caregivers 
and service providers to visit, and created safety concerns as people walk longer distances 
carrying children, groceries, or medical equipment. These impacts fall hardest on the most 
vulnerable residents.  
I also urge the City to carefully consider how it uses outside funding. Just because grant 
money is available for a particular design does not mean it is the right fit for this 
neighborhood, especially when it imposes serious burdens on existing residents. The 
possibility that the City might receive less grant funding in the future should not be used as a 
justification to deprive current residents of the basic, needed parking they rely on to access 
their homes, jobs, schools, and essential services. Grant programs should serve community 
needs, not drive decisions that undermine neighborhood livability. 
I recognize and support the City’s goals to improve bicycle safety and offer more sustainable 
transportation options. However, in a dense, older neighborhood with limited driveways and 
garages, major reductions in residential parking must be balanced against basic access needs 
for existing residents.  
Sincerely, 
Lisa Maley 
 
233 of 368

--- page 234 ---
1
From:
Susan Manheimer 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 1:11 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Return our parking to North Central!
Please ensure that you are a City Council that prioritizes the critical needs of our most vulnerable and 
underserved and overburdened communities and not be influenced by outside political bullies! 
Yours in Safety & Service,  
  
Chief Susan E. Manheimer (Ret.) 
Public Safety & Justice Consulting 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
234 of 368

--- page 235 ---
Agenda item: https://sanmateo.primegov.com/portal/viewer?id=774&type=0 
Resolution for adoption: https://sanmateo.primegov.com/portal/viewer?id=1506&type=2 
Presentation: https://sanmateo.primegov.com/portal/viewer?id=1505&type=2 
Presentation 2: https://sanmateo.primegov.com/portal/viewer?id=1765&type=2 
Residential Parking Permit Program | San Mateo, CA - Official Website 
Residential Parking Permit Program Update | San Mateo, CA - Official Website 
Policy PDF 
 
Video presentation: 
https://www.youtube.com/live/oV9eTIc-hF0?si=17Es1TX1JEmh7xK-&t=2796 
Notes: 
-​
Program intent: maximize availability of on-street parking for local residents 
-​
15 existing parking “zones”? 
-​
Policy Criteria: 
-​
# of permits per household 
-​
Current: unlimited plus 1 visitor per household 
-​
Council feedback: some limitation while “grandfathering” existing permit 
holders 
-​
New proposal: one permit per licensed driver w/ no household maximum 
-​
Program application & approval process 
-​
Current: review by staff & approval by PW director, mail-in vote of 
residents (one vote per residential household unit) 
-​
Council feedback: involve the S&I commission 
-​
New proposal: status quo + appeals to S&I commission + a “parking 
occupancy study” 
-​
Program removal or modification process 
-​
Current: resident request removal 
-​
Proposal: extend to include modifications 
-​
Parking “generators” 
-​
Current: schools, business, commercial districts or commercial uses 
-​
Council feedback: consider adding multi-family housing to list 
-​
Proposal: too confusing to distinguish bundled/unbundled parking & 
legally questionable to discriminate against multi-family housing. They 
don’t want multi-family apartment buildings who have been forced to 
unbundle their parking to then see residents all go and get free parking 
permits. But providing free curb parking is exactly why apartment 
buildings do not unbundle parking! 
-​
Permit issuance for corner properties 
-​
Current: corner lots are eligible 
-​
Proposal: corner lots are conditionally eligible 
-​
Future considerations: 
-​
Require residents to utilize off-street parking first 
-​
Proposal: don’t adopt, too confusing to enforce 
-​
New: online permit applications–permits mailed to them 
235 of 368

--- page 236 ---
-​
Council questions: 
-​
Papan: “Still free?” “Yes” “Ok” 
-​
Papan: “Would you match drivers licenses to car ownership?” “Yes, but we’d 
allow a note explaining your usage” 
-​
Rodriguez: “revision process-what triggers?” “one resident or petition–triggers a 
mailed survey (vote) that requires 50% voting participation” 
-​
Rodriguez: “bundled parking clarification?”  
-​
Freschet: “what about long-term storage?” “no 72-hour limit exemption in 
program areas” 
-​
Bonilla: “if application is rejected, is there cost to appealing to S&I commission?” 
“no” 
-​
Bonilla: “handicap resident?” “can use visitors pass” 
-​
Bonilla: “I have 2 cars, what am I to do?” “parking one off-street” 
-​
Bonilla: “enforcement against cones?” “pw’s goes and talks with them” 
-​
Papan: “2 year duration of permits?” “yes” 
-​
Papan: “applications for new programs are paper?” “yes” 
-​
Public comment (9): 
-​
“15th Ave to join Borel program–ppl asked if it cost money, good that it is free 
otherwise they would have objected” “Ppl will park in the alleyways, obstructing 
access” 
-​
“South downtown: objects to multi-family housing being included in my parking 
zone” “Segregate SFH & multi-family parking districts” 
-​
“Enforcement, without it this is meaningless” 
-​
“Thank you for the program, it helped guarantee I can find a parking space now 
that it exists” “what about my n + 1 car?” 
-​
“Parking in my neighborhood has gotten worse since metered parking began 
adjacent–petition process is too hard because renters won’t vote” 500 block S 
Fremont 
-​
Rob Newsom: “lots of ppl with >1 car per resident, ADUs will exacerbate, make 
exemption for recreational vehicles” “visitor passes are not enough” 
-​
“We have n+1 vehicles, visitor pass isn’t flexible enough” 
-​
“Don’t exclude existing residents/properties from this” 
-​
“Lost visitor placard, no replacement given” 
-​
$150k annual public works budget, excludes enforcement (by police), transitioning to 
contractor (LAZ) which should be budget neutral 
-​
Rodriguez: Is it in fact harder to get renters to vote? Return-to-sender 
-​
Goethals: SFH vs. multi-family issue is big 
-​
Bonilla: enforcement is big 
-​
Freschet: good plan 
-​
Rodriguez: improved, but will we revisit this? Seems still work-in-progress 
-​
Approved: 5-0 
236 of 368

--- page 237 ---
1
From:
Max Mautner 
Sent:
Monday, February 2, 2026 9:43 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Alex Khojikian
Cc:
Clerk
Subject:
On the Humboldt bike lanes
Attachments:
2019 San Mateo parking permit meeting.pdf
Dear City Council & CM Khojikian, 
As a daily bike lane user and new father, I'm writing to urge an exploration of a parking permit program for 
North Central. 
Removal of the bike lanes between Indian & Tilton would be a step backwards on the City Council's 
stated priority to build out a functioning bike network & would provide no meaningful parking respite to 
the neighborhood. 
The equity argument for removal misses a key point: equity priority communities are defined by high rates 
of zero-car households (MTC's definition).  
My neighbors I see using the bike lanes on Humboldt every day—predominantly day laborers commuting 
at all hours—are residents who depend on this infrastructure, not "rich people passing through."  
Removing these lanes directly harms the community members you have a moral responsibility protect. 
I understand parking concerns are real in North Central. The solution isn't eliminating bike 
infrastructure—it's reforming the parking permit program.  
In order to help inform future parking permitting conversations I've compiled an attached PDF of notes I 
took from the 2019 council discussion for your reference. 
A functional city needs both parking solutions AND safe bike infrastructure. These aren't competing 
priorities. 
Thank you for your service, 
 
Max Mautner 
 
237 of 368

--- page 238 ---
1
From:
Genel Morgan <
>
Sent:
Saturday, January 31, 2026 11:59 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Return parking to residents of North Central San Mateo
Dear Councilmembers, 
I have lived in San Mateo the majority of my life and I care about others in my community negatively 
impacted by City Council decisions. 
 
I attend the Congregational Church of San Mateo so I drive through the North Central neighborhood 
frequently. Several years ago I was shocked to see parking spaces removed from in front of many 
residents' houses for the installation of bike lanes. Whenever I drive in that area I see very few bikers in 
those lanes. 
 
These decisions need to take into consideration ALL people affected by them. For many of these 
residents, not having access to their vehicles, especially work vehicles, has a huge impact. Also what 
about when they have visitors? Not being able to park in front of your own home is unacceptable! 
 
There are bike lanes on San Mateo Drive which is wider and safer. I would be interested to know the 
number of bicyclists versus the cars that use those streets. I feel the majority is being impacted 
negatively by the few.   
 
The expansion of bike lanes in other parts of the city needs to be considered seriously and the council 
needs to weigh the benefits and negative impacts to ALL of its citizens. Don't just allow those who speak 
loudest to get their way! 
 
 I appreciate your serious consideration on expansion of bike lanes and get all the input of how they 
impact areas before passing final judgement. 
 
Regards 
Genel Morgan 
San Mateo 
238 of 368

--- page 239 ---
1
From:
Karen Nakamura 
Sent:
Sunday, February 1, 2026 1:54 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Restoring parking on Humboldt Street
I urge the city council to right a wrong by restoring the parking on Humboldt Street. The idea of ridding the 
resident’s parking to accommodate underused bike lanes was ill conceived and a mistake.  It is your duty 
to admit this huge  error and set things right by restoring parking on Humboldt Street. The chaos that the 
entire neighborhood has suffered these last two years needs to end. 
 
Making either Idaho or Fremont Streets Bike Boulevard with speed bumps is again a bad idea. These 
streets are so narrow as is, adding the words “Bike Blvd” on the pavement won’t make it any better. 
 
I feel badly for those who do bike and there needs to be a better solution. Perhaps making two streets 
one way might add some safety for both bike riders  and  drivers. It would be a big change for traffic 
flow but perhaps a way to provide safety for all. 
 
Karen Nakamura 
50 year North Central resident  
 
 
239 of 368

--- page 240 ---
1
From:
Jon New 
Sent:
Saturday, January 31, 2026 12:26 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Clerk; Nicole Fernandez
Subject:
Please keep the Humboldt St Bike Lanes
Dear Council, 
 
My name is Jonathan New, and I'm a homeowner in North Central. I'm strongly opposed to removing the 
Humboldt bike lanes. I'm sure you're going to hear a wide variety of perspectives. I would like to share 
two. 
 
First, I've been extremely disappointed in the lack of progress, or even discussion, on a residential 
parking permit program. Despite attending meetings and reviewing available materials, I am not aware of 
any concrete proposals. When I raised this issue with staff, I was told permits are “inequitable” and 
“unwelcoming.” But, failing to manage demand for scarce parking resources is neither equitable nor 
effective. Many cities successfully use permit systems with guest passes and income-based 
adjustments. Parking management should be addressed directly, not by removing safety infrastructure.
 
Second, and most importantly, we know bike lanes make streets safer for cyclists and pedestrians. 
There are countless studies that demonstrate this. This is not speculative policy; it's consistently 
supported with real-world data. At the risk of sounding melodramatic, are we really considering spending 
hundreds of thousands during a fiscal budget crunch to make a street less safe? Especially during a year 
where we've already seen multiple pedestrian fatalities?  
 
I urge the Council to keep the Humboldt bike lanes and continue iterating on improvements that enhance 
safety for everyone who uses our streets. 
 
Thank you for your time and consideration. 
 
Jonathan New 
San Mateo 
240 of 368

--- page 241 ---
1
From:
Nate Nickolai 
Sent:
Sunday, February 1, 2026 12:16 PM
To:
Lisa
Cc:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Humboldt Bike Lane Concern
Hello Lisa, 
 
This is Nate Nickolai, one of your constituents in district 1 and a long time resident of San Mateo. I'm 
reaching out because I've generally had a good experience sharing my thoughts and concerns with you, 
and I appreciate your willingness to hear from the community. 
 
As I'm sure you know from my past emails, I follow San Mateo local news closely, including the 
Humboldt Bike Lanes issue. I do not live on Humboldt, so I haven't felt comfortable reaching out about it 
in the past; however, given the recent pedestrian accident on El Camino as well as the upcoming vote, I 
felt the need to share my concerns, many of which I know my fellow community members also share. 
 
1. San Mateo is fresh off of yet another pedestrian death due to negligent driving. Veronica Vasquez's 
death, and the several others that have occurred over the past 16 months, illustrate a very real car safety 
issue throughout San Mateo's neighborhoods. I do not understand why the city would even consider 
removing a bike lane, a tangible step towards increasing car safety, in the wake of such tragic deaths. I 
know that some residents living on Humboldt have expressed concerns over parking, but I do not think 
we should make important safety decisions based on the whims of a vocal minority, especially when 
these bike lanes are next to three schools that serve 10,000 students and on a street identified as the 
most dangerous in the City. 
 
2. As San Mateo faces an economic deficit, I believe the $2 million cost of the bike lane removal project, 
if approved, is a waste of taxpayer money. Surely there are tens, if not hundreds, of projects we could put 
money like that towards that would impact far more San Mateans (or, we could just not spend it at all!). 
I've emailed in the past about the delayed park renovation project, but here are some other random small 
ideas I have: 
 
- New picnic tables in Central Park 
- More/better wildlife information signs along the bay trail 
- Better sidewalks on San Mateo Drive 
- Clearer driving lanes/directional arrows on parts of Delaware that merge lanes 
 
I am grateful to have a representative like you, who I feel genuinely cares about hearing from her 
community, and I deeply appreciate all of the hard work you put into making San Mateo a great city. I ask 
that you vote to keep the bike lanes as they are and continue to prioritize projects that benefit the safety 
and wellness of San Mateo as a whole, not just one small vocal group. 
 
Best, 
Nate Nickolai 
 
241 of 368

--- page 242 ---
2
PS: I feel that too often you and the city council only ever receive criticism when hot button issues arise 
and almost no recognition for a lot of the good work you do, so I want to send along some kudos as well. 
Thank you for all of the drainage and water management upgrades you have helped institute over the 
past year -- we had almost no serious issues this past rainy season (a pretty crazy one in my opinion!), 
which is a testament to that work. I've also emailed about this in the past, but thank you again for all of 
the work you have done to beautify downtown and keep it free from cars. The amazing community that 
has grown up around those pedestrian streets is a direct result of your advocacy. 
 
 
242 of 368

--- page 243 ---
1
From:
Tom Oertli 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 9:52 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
North central bike lanes
The ciƟzens of North Central have been clear for 2 years that they want the bike lane on Humboldt removed and I ask 
that you vote to restore the road. 
Tom Oertli  
Sent from my iPhone 
243 of 368

--- page 244 ---
1
From:
DonElizabeth Peter 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 8:09 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Please return parking spots on Humboldt 
Thank u. Elizabeth Peter 
244 of 368

--- page 245 ---
1
From:
Sam Price 
Sent:
Saturday, January 31, 2026 9:47 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Humboldt St Bike Lanes
I'm Sam, I live at 805 W Grant Pl. My son is considering attending Fiesta Gardens next year, and I plan to 
bike him to school. 
 
Please don't spend my tax dollars making Humboldt St less safe in order to spare people a minor 
inconvenience of walking a block to their parking spot. 
 
-Sam 
245 of 368

--- page 246 ---
1
From:
Wendy Samayoa 
Sent:
Thursday, January 29, 2026 4:03 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
 
Seema Patel
Subject:
Bike Lanes in San Mateo
Hello there, 
I don't ride a bicycle, but I have witnessed several accidents in which, unfortunately, vehicle drivers show 
no respect for the lives of those who use bicycles, scooters, or skateboards. For many people, a bicycle, 
scooter, or skateboard is their only means of transportation, and they acquired it with great effort. Others 
use these modes of transport for exercise and recreation, since, sadly, we have lost many green spaces 
in our city due to the extensive construction that has taken place and will continue to increase if there is 
no regulation. WHAT FUTURE AWAITS OUR CHILDREN? Breathing cement dust? Living in fear when riding 
a bicycle, scooter, or skateboard because there are car and motorcycle drivers who don't respect their 
lives? 
Wendy Samayoa 
246 of 368

--- page 247 ---
Yes to People. Yes to Housing.

sanmateoforward.org

SAN MATEO
FORWARD

City Council

City of San Mateo
330 W 20th Ave

San Mateo, CA 94403

February 2, 2026

Humboldt bike lanes

Dear Mayor Lorraine, Deputy Mayor Fernandez and the San Mateo City Council:

| am writing on behalf of San Mateo Forward. We have 57 dues-paying members in the City
of San Mateo.

San Mateo Forward asks the Council to vote against any proposal that removes any portion
of the bike lanes on Humboldt Street. The bike lanes provide safety and connectivity to the
residents of North Central, San Mateo, and neighboring cities. This includes many low
income, people of color who are unable to afford a car to safely get to work or shuttle their
kids to the many schools on Humboldt.

North Central is already a dense and walkable neighborhood. It attracts many new, young
families to San Mateo given its proximity to downtown, Caltrain, and Samtrans. When we
build and maintain safe bike infrastructure, more people bike and we attract new residents
who are less car dependent. The result is safer streets, less congestion, higher quality of
life, more visually attractive spaces, and higher property values. If we are serious about
meeting our housing goals and making housing more affordable in San Mateo, we cannot
continue to adopt policies that encourage ownership of 3+ vehicles and dependence on
taxpayer supported free car storage. Keep in mind that North Central already has 5,882

1

247 of 368


--- page 248 ---
free, on-street parking spaces (p. 10) in addition to the thousands of other parking spaces
in single family home driveways and garages.

Thank you for your consideration and | hope that you will reject the proposals to remove
the Humboldt bike lanes and instead prioritize taxpayer dollars and staff time on the many
other projects that will help increase housing affordability in San Mateo.

Sincerely,

Gary Magill
Volunteer Lead

San Mateo Forward

John Lovell
Volunteer Lead

San Mateo Forward

Yes to People. Yes to Housing.

SAN MATEO sanmateoforward.org
FORWARD

248 of 368


--- page 249 ---
1
From:
Kolja Schluetter 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 9:47 AM
To:
Clerk; City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Humboldt Bike Lanes and Fiscal Responsibility
Good morning Council Members, 
  
I just read the recent San Mateo Daily Journal op-ed by Mr. Swire regarding the Humboldt Street bike 
lanes and their implications for San Mateo taxpayers. 
https://www.smdailyjournal.com/opinion/letters to editor/removing-bike-lanes-will-cost-san-mateo-
taxpayers/article_7e2636e2-e2bb-411b-affa-f496465bdc4a.html 
  
I do not live in North Central, and I genuinely empathize with residents who may feel they were 
insufficiently engaged during the initial decision-making process. That said, I believe Mr. Swire is correct 
on the central issue he's raising in the op-ed: It would be fiscally irresponsible to remove functioning 
safety infrastructure at significant cost to taxpayers, particularly at a time when the City’s financial 
outlook is strained and new tax increases are being contemplated. 
  
This concern is amplified by the fact that removing recently installed bike lanes would likely invite 
significantly increased scrutiny of San Mateo’s future applications for state and federal infrastructure 
grants. Reversing completed projects weakens the City’s credibility as a responsible steward of public 
funds and risks jeopardizing future outside funding for transportation and safety improvements. 
  
In principle, I support raising taxes to fund necessary infrastructure improvements when they are truly 
needed. However, I cannot support tax increases while the City simultaneously considers/approves 
spending millions of dollars to actively dismantle recently installed public safety infrastructure. That 
approach undermines public trust and suggests a lack of fiscal discipline. 
  
If the City is serious about long-term infrastructure overhauls and responsible financial stewardship, 
Council should follow the recommendation of the Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission and vote 
to keep the Humboldt bike lanes in place. If austerity is required, it should begin with avoiding wasteful 
reversals, not with asking residents to pay more while functional infrastructure is torn out. 
  
Thank you for your consideration. 
 
Best, Kolja Schluetter 
249 of 368

--- page 250 ---
1
From:
Daniel Schonberg 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 6:13 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Save the humboldt bike lanes
I advocate for safe biking throughout the city. It saddens me that instead we are instead discussing 
removing bike lanes. We have built a city that makes it nearly impossible to bike with confidence and 
safety. Please don't make it harder. 
250 of 368

--- page 251 ---
1
From:
Nicholas Smith 
Sent:
Sunday, February 1, 2026 2:26 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Humboldt Bike Lanes
To whom it may concern. My name is Nicholas Smith, I am a resident of San Mateo CA and I am writing in 
opposition to the idea of removing bike protections on Humboldt Street. I am a cyclist who commutes to 
work, the grocery store, and other local restaurants instead of driving. There is still a long way to go until 
San Mateo is bike friendly, but additional parking does not make cyclists safe, and the limited additional 
spaces provide little benefit to those in the greater San Mateo community than a safe bicycling corridor. I 
strongly support safe bicycle corridors, and in fact I support protected bikeways similar to other 
Peninsula cities like Redwood City and Mountain View. There are ways to incorporate parking and safe 
cycling. 
 
Thank you for your consideration. 
 
--  
Nicholas Smith 
251 of 368

--- page 252 ---
Mayor Lorraine, Vice Mayor Fernandez, and the San Mateo City Council,
771 people have signed a petition on Action Network telling you to Save the San Mateo High/College
Park & Fiesta Gardens Elementary Bike Lanes.
Here is the petition they signed:
Dear Mayor Lorraine and SM City Council,
Please do not remove the new bike lanes around San Mateo High, College Park/Fiesta
Gardens Elementary, and San Mateo Adult Schools - the most dangerous streets in the City.
We need to make our streets safer for kids who walk and bike so that we can reduce the
increasing number of fatalities and the traffic congestion that plague our streets.
The bike lanes offer several benefits to residents of North Central and others who attend
school, recreate, or commute in the area.  Bike lanes:
-  Save lives for kids and parents who bike
-  Make the streets safer for pedestrians (through more narrow auto lanes and improved
crosswalk visibility)
-  Make our kids healthier and help them do better in school
-  Foster a sense of independence among our children
-  Encourage people to leave their cars at home, reducing congestion, global warming, and air
pollution
-  Increase property values
-  Make our streets more beautiful
-  Create a sense of community and and encourage people to shop locally
-  Reduce taxpayer expenses through lower road maintenance and public health spending
-  Facilitate safe, low cost travel for those unable to afford the skyrocketing cost of car
ownership
Too many people are dying on the streets of San Mateo while we debate whether to remove
recently installed safety infrastructure.  We ask that our scarce taxpayer dollars and staff time
instead be spent looking forward, not backward.  This debate is delaying construction of safe
routes to school projects on Delaware, Norfolk, 19th/Fashion Island, Alameda, and elsewhere.
Meanwhile, the number of tragedies is increasing and too many parents are scared to let their
kids walk and bike to school.
Thank you for putting the safety of our kids and families first,  keeping the San Mateo High
bike lanes, and accelerating other safety projects in San Mateo.
You can view each petition signer and the comments they left you below.
Thank you,
Michael Swire
252 of 368

--- page 253 ---
1. Michael Swire (Z/P code: i)

2. Allison MacQueen (Z/P code:

We need to protect Safe Routes to School and continue to make progress against Vision Zero.
Humboldt St is one of the most dangerous streets in San Mateo County: high injury rates for all three
modes of travel: bike, pedestrian, and vehicle. One of only 0 streets in San Mateo County. The bike

lanes are seeing 10,000+ bike trips each month per data from the City of San Mateo.

3. Eyal Ben David (Z/P code: i)

4. Tony Pereira (Z/P code: i)

I'd keep the bike lanes in between school hours and after I'd allow car parking!

5. Rick Bonilla (Z/P code: i)

Our roads are unsafe. Bicycles provide exercise and emission free transportation. This is the time for
more lanes. The change will make our streets safer, our air cleaner and improve our social climate.

Keep the San Mateo bike lanes and build more.!

6. Maggie Trinh (Z/P code: i)

7. Bry Myers (Z/P code: i)

8. Maggie Bobbin (Z/P code: i)

9. Allie Paul (Z/P code: i)

10. Tanaya Cirz (Z/P code: i)

11. Anya Lin (Z/P code: i)

12. Miles Kim (Z/P code: i)

13. Anthony Ladcani (Z/P code: i)

14. Ronan Belen Henroid (Z/P code: i)
15. Nathaniel Chen (Z/P code:

16. Kyle Fukumoto (Z/P code:
Keep bike lanes

17. Naia Hsieh (Z/P code: i)

18. Lauryn Matsumoto (Z/P code: i)

253 of 368


--- page 254 ---
19. Aurora Yazzie (Z/P code: i)

20. Lauryn Edwards (Z/P code: i)
21. Robin Villavicencio (Z/P code: i)
22. Toan Dang (Z/P code: i)

23. Michelle Hudson (Z/P code: i)
24. Mignon Belongie (Z/P code: i)
25. Cheryl Weiden (Z/P code: i)

26. Jason Cheng (Z/P code ii)

27. Natalie Kubitz (Z/P code: i)

28. Jonathan Felder (Z/P code: i)

29. Erin Fieberling (Z/P code: i)
Bike lanes save lives! Don't be the reason someone dies!

30. Lauren Obenshain (Z/P code: i)
31. Tyler Rankin (Z/P code: i)

32. Mariana Tiwari (Z/P code: i)

33. Natasha B (Z/P code: i)

34. Cyrus Limon (Z/P code: i)

35. Carrie Forde (Z/P code: i)

36. ben toy (Z/P code: i)
Turn Idaho and Grant into one way with bike lanes

Return Humboldt back to what it was before

37. Angie Wadsworth (Z/P code: i)
Please don't remove the bike lanes many people use to get to and from school and need to be safe
from traffic. Bicycles have zero impact on the environment and are a healthy form of transportation.

254 of 368


--- page 255 ---
We need more bikes on the road and fewer cars. Don't take away the safety of cyclists.

38. Michelle Lorenz (Z/P code: i)

| use these bike lanes all the time. Before they were put in, | was in an accident involving someone
swinging there car door open as | was riding on the road a couple of feet away from parked cars. |
couldn't stop in time and was hit in the clavicle by the corner of the door and was thrown off my bike
injuring my knee and putting me on the ground in front of oncoming cars. | could have been killed.
PLEASE don't get rid of the bike lanes.

39. James Walsh (Z/P code: a)

40. Gary Schick (Z/P code: i)
Let’s keep the roads safe for cyclists

41. Steve Vanderlip (Z/P code: i)

42. Elaine Salinger (Z/P code: i)

We need more bike lanes for most cyclists to feel safe, not fewer! The SMC Civil Grand Jury sent a
report to the BOS in the summer of 2023 stating that the number of cyclists in SMC has not increased
because they don’t feel safe. If you want to reduce traffic congestion, the best way is to get people to
leave their cars at home.

Please don’t prioritize the convenience of drivers over the lives and bodies of cyclists.

43. Carlos Moreno (Z/P code: i)

44. Kailun Wu (Z/P code: i)

We need your leadership to build a more walkable and bikeable San Mateo and save us from more
traffic and gridlock. Parking can be done on the properties and shouldn’t rely on curbs. | bike almost
daily in San Mateo for preschool pickups and we are in dire need for more bike lanes, not less. Safety
is more important than curb parking. Thank you!

45. Kallen Chen (Z/P code: i)
We bike to college park school everyday. Having a bike line is very important for the school commute.
Please keep the bike lines for the safety of everyone!

46. Sarah Zhao (Z/P code: i)

| lived in bay meadow and biked on this lane everyday for work. | don’t understand why people wants
to remove it, please don’t. | often see other people bike in this lane too, it is a good used bike lane
and please keep it.

47. Yang Wei (Z/P code:

The bike lanes are essential for providing safe, accessible, and eco-friendly transportation options for
students, parents, and staff. Preserving the bike lanes allows us to have a healthier, more sustainable
future.

48. Kristin Hiensch (Z/P code: i)

255 of 368


--- page 256 ---
49. James Clarke (ZIP code: 
)
I ride this road on my bike quite often, it’s a great spot to get through from north to south of town!
50. Jacob Zimmerman (ZIP code: 
)
These bike lanes form the core part of my commute to work. Without them, I’d be forced to share the
road with motorists during rush hour, making traffic slower for cars behind me and riskier for myself.
The bike lanes form on Humboldt street especially is one of the best bike lanes in the area, and I’m
hoping to see more like it.
51. Vicky Stein (ZIP code: 
)
We shouldn’t be removing any bike lanes, we should be adding more. It’s unproductive to take away
safety measures allowing kids to get to school, and anything that encourages us all to drive less is an
overall good.
52. Liz Finnegan (ZIP code: 
)
The idea that we would spend a huge amount of city, public, shared money to eliminate a public good
and essentially give a few residents $10k parking spots for free, is an idea that shouldn’t even have
been considered. Keep the bike lanes, expand them even. I own my house at the corner of poplar and
Ellsworth, we have 3 cars, and we don’t park on the street. We don’t think anyone else should feel
entitled to public parking for free either.
53. Jessica Gachet (ZIP code: 
)
Please save the bike lanes! We need more and safer spaces for bikes. I am nervous every day my kid
bikes to school, especially in the winter when it is darker.
54. Jennifer Jacobson (ZIP code: 
)
As a parent of children who walk/bike to school in San Mateo, and a Trustee of San Mateo Union High
School District, I wholeheartedly support this petition and infrastructure that supports safe routes to
schools.
55. Melissa Lindeman (ZIP code: 
)
The area around San Mateo high school is already dangerous for pedestrians and traffic. I was in a
car accident myself at Humboldt and Poplat just before Christmas. My son attends SMHS. Please
keep these bike lanes!
56. Max Mautner (ZIP code: 
)
57. Tony Samara (ZIP code: 
)
58. Jacob Chamoun (ZIP code: 
)
59. Ting Tey (ZIP code: 
)
Ever since the bike lane was installed, I bought a bike and reduced my driving down to only needing
to refill gas from bi-weekly to once every month. This bike lane has made me felt safer to ride on the
road than ever before, in comparison to Delaware Street. 
As a driver myself, I have always had cars tail gating behind me extremely closely where they are
256 of 368

--- page 257 ---
ignoring the speed limit on this road. They sometimes drive onto the opposite lane just to cut off
whoever is in front of them, which increases the risk of accidents and compromise the safety for
others.

We have had fatality on the Delaware Street just a few months ago, please do not compromise on

pedestrian and biker safety over car storages on the street. Most residents in this area have ample
parking spaces in their home garages or driveway. There is absolutely no reason for a highly used
public road to become a private parking space.

60. Christine Cook (Z/P code: i)

61. Christine Chai (Z/P code: i)

62. Allison Ross (Z/P code: i)

63. Karen Field (Z/P code: i)

64. Margot Du Manoir (Z/P code: i)

65. Ligia Andrade Zuniga (Z/P code: i)
66. Shana Nielsen (Z/P code: i)

67. Benjamin Pulli (Z/P code: i)
Do not remove bike lanes in the area! We need more (protected) bike lanes.

68. Johanna Dahiya (Z/P code: i)

69. Matthew Eng (Z/P code: i)

Currently many of the bike lanes in these areas are actually not safe enough, which gives them the
false idea that they are underused. A prime example of this is the S. Norfolk corridor where many
parts are too narrow, with parked cars often overlapping with it further narrowing said bike lane. Other
lanes such as N. Humboldt have a problem where the lanes is not continuous at intersections,
introducing unsafe conflict points between drivers and cyclists. The reason bike lanes in San Mateo
are underutilized is because of poor and unsafe connectivity, not a lack of demand.

70. Katrina Castillo (Z/P code: i)

71. Julie Kokes (Z/P code: i)
Please save the bike lanes, we need these bike lanes for our growing population and to keep bike
riders safe.

72. Cammie Partelow (Z/P code:
Bikes and other non-vehicular are essential to wellbeing and community. We need to encourage these
not remove infrastructure.

257 of 368


--- page 258 ---
73. Carol Palacio (Z/P code: i)

Please keep bike lanes in place at least on upper portion of N Humboldt by the High School at the
very least and keep Courthouse Parking Lot open for night parking. The street has been safer since
the lanes went in. It’s easier to exit our driveway and safer

74. Louise Yarnall (Z/P code: i)
In the interest of safety and to support low emissions transportation, | support bike path proposals.

75. karen jensen (Z/P code: i)

76. Dylan Tweney (Z/P code:

| use the bike lanes in North Central multiple times a week. They have made my rides safer, without
question. I've lived here 25 years and appreciate the improvements to make San Mateo more bike
friendly. We need to keep the lanes not remove them!

77. Quynh Anh Toczek (Z/P code: i)

| am a Student Ambassador of San Mateo Adult and Career Education, also running for Evening
School Council President position this spring 2025. Travel to school by bike is essential for me as |
don't drive, but | love my school so much and willing to support all students from my school, who use
bikes to travel to school and back. The streets are dark around the school, at the evening time streets
are all along parked. To save the bike line is essential for safety of bike users in the area. Thank you.

78. Rishika Mukherjee (Z/P code: i)
79. Violet Aloft (Z/P code: i)

80. Jeressa Cadiz (Z/P code: i)

81. Lucy Yeager (Z/P code: i)

82. Emme Young (Z/P code: i)

83. Mari E (Z/P code: i)

84. Hannah Young (Z/P code: i)
Safe roads need to be accessible to our community!

85. Yili Young (Z/P code: i)
We need the bike lanes!

86. Kieran Mitchell (Z/P code: i)
| agree to sign this.

87. Kayleen Nguyen (Z/P code: i)

258 of 368


--- page 259 ---
88. Sofia Diaz (Z/P code: i)

89. Wayne Young (Z/P code:
LA recently passed Measure HLA. Let's get the city to own up on the master bike plan 2020.

90. Pamela Rittelmeyer (Z/P code: i)

91. Miguel Appleman (Z/P code:
| use the bike lane to ride to and from school about half of the school days. | appreciate the additional
safety these bike lanes provide on Humboldt.

92. Natsume Kondo (Z/P code: i)
93. Shalan Chau (Z/P code: i)

94. Babita Basnet (Z/P code: i)

| live near Humboldt street, the number of accidents has significantly reduced after the bike lanes.
The car parked makes it so hard to see the incoming cars in humbold. Pls keep the bike lane for
everyone’s safety

95. Parmananda Bista (Z/P code:
Removing the bike lane doesn’t make sense. We are already seeing huge difference with respect to
cleaner neighborhood and environment, less accidents.

96. Kari Kaplan (Z/P code: i)
We need all the bike lanes we can get!

97. Philip King (Z/P code: i)

| use bike lanes to cross San Mateo from home near Hillsdale to school in North Central at least once
a week. This is critical safety infrastructure and I’d feel less safe biking in San Mateo with out it. An
area with well over 1,000 students and a new middle school being build must have safe streets more
than ever!

98. Marco Rojas (Z/P code: i)

99. Adan Reyes Rojas (Z/P code: i)
N/A

100. Gary Li (Z/P code: i)
Love the bike lane on Humboldt st

101. Craig McNamara (Z/P code: i)
Removing bike lanes is wrong.

102. Candice Cain (Z/P code: i)

259 of 368


--- page 260 ---
103. Jared Lee (Z/P code: i)
Please keep the bike Lanes near the schools. It's hard for parents to monitor them all the time so we
need some safety measures so they can get to school.

104. Daru Zhang (Z/P code: i)

105. Jonathan Kim (Z/P code: i)
We need the bike infrastructure MORE connected, not less.

106. Caspar Li (Z/P code: i)

107. Lan Li (Z/P code: i)
We definitely need the bike lanes!

108. Andrea Stewart (Z/P code: i)
As a parent who bikes around with her kids, please don’t remove anymore bike lanes!!

109. Doug Bojack (Z/P code: i)
A strong San Mateo bike network protects not just your constituents’ safety, but supports a stronger,
Peninsula-wide active transportation network that saves lives and reduces carbon emissions.

110. Bhargavi Rajan (Z/P code iii
111. Andrew Reback (Z/P code: i)
112. Ellen Dela pena (Z/P code: i)

113. Nick Gonzalez (Z/P code: i)
| want my fucking bike lane, thank you

114. Dane Pamintuan (Z/P code: i)
115. Raf Catalla (Z/P code: i)

116. Ana C (Z/P code: i)

117. Ana Ignacio (Z/P code: i)

118. Mina Datumanong (Z/P code: i)
The bike lanes are essential.

119. Linda Montoya (Z/P code: i)
| live at Woodlake save the bike lanes. So much money was spent to make the lanes removing is
going to cause cars to SPEED more. Currently cars speed along Humboldt but slow down when

260 of 368


--- page 261 ---
bikes on road. After dark usually not many bike riders use Humboldt. | see and hear speeding cars
after dark.

120. Lana Handy (Z/P code:
121. Rebecca Shepler (Z/P code: i)

122. Danielle Gray (Z/P code: i)
San Mateo needs more bike infrastructure, not less! Save the bike lanes to save children's lives!

123. Maria T. (Z/P code: i)
124. Martin Horwitz (Z/P code: i)

125. An anonymous signer (Z/P code: i)
You like killing bicyclists? You like vehicular manslaughter? You like dead pedestrian children?

126. Kermit Cuff (Z/P code: i)
127. Sarah Boudreau (Z/P code: i)
128. Alvaro Ramos (Z/P code: i)

129. JL Angell (Z/P code: i)
Consider adding barriors to protect students biking to school to improve safety. Healthy habits begin
young.

130. Blair MacDonald (Z/P code:
The only way to solve car traffic is to give people safe and viable alternatives to using their car for
more trips. Protected bike lanes reduce car traffic!

131. Kent Gorday (Z/P code: i)
132. Ariel Yakov (Z/P code: I)
133. Liana Lang (Z/P code: i)

134. Sharon Paltin (Z/P code: i)

135. Shannon McEntee (Z/P code: i)
Our highest priority MUST be to improve public transportation. Doing so encourages people to give
up their SOVs and protect our struggling planet.

136. Ann Dorsey (Z/P code: i)

261 of 368


--- page 262 ---
137. Ana Salotti (ZIP code: 
)
We are heavy users of San Mateo bike lanes. Our bike is our main mode of transport. I use it to take
my daughter to school, back and forth, to go grocery shopping and pretty much for every trip. If
anything San Mateo should increase the availability of bike lanes, not remove them.
138. AJ Cho (ZIP code: 
)
139. Catie Hagman (ZIP code: 
)
140. LANDER FOQUET (ZIP code: 
)
We are not going back!
141. Deirdre Ambadekar (ZIP code: 
)
Removing the bike lines would be a massive waste of money and a disservice to the North Central
community.
142. Emma  Martens (ZIP code: 
)
143. Randy O'Connor (ZIP code: 
)
144. Leila Gates (ZIP code: 
)
145. Melinda Chin (ZIP code: 
)
146. Chris Wilson (ZIP code: 
)
147. Mary Burns (ZIP code: 
)
148. Dipti  Irla (ZIP code: 
)
149. Tiffany Booth (ZIP code: 
)
150. Haiyun Fang (ZIP code: 
)
151. Utkarsh Nath (ZIP code: 
)
152. Karen  Grue (ZIP code: 
)
153. Jennifer Stimson (ZIP code: 
)
154. Ace Parco (ZIP code: 
)
please keep the bike lanes for the safety of the people and children who use it daily!
262 of 368

--- page 263 ---
155. Caroline Gillis (ZIP code: 
)
156. Lauren  Baumgartner  (ZIP code: 
)
157. Michelle Wolfklain (ZIP code: 
)
The roads of San Mateo are not bike friendly we must save the few bike lanes we have.
158. Maria Vargas (ZIP code: 
)
If these bake lanes are removed many children adults and teen will be affected. I see so many people
bike to school and work every morning and by removing these bike lanes it won’t be safe for bikers
any more.
159. Jamie Giloni (ZIP code: 
)
160. Yuriko Ikuno (ZIP code: 
)
161. Maria del Carmen Munoz  (ZIP code: 
)
162. Barbara Gibb (ZIP code: 
)
163. Steve  Liang (ZIP code: 
)
We need more bike lanes not less!
164. Ivan Gonzalez (ZIP code: 
)
I've started visiting San Mateo with my son using Caltrain and our bike. Please don't take the bike
lane away. We love going down there and having lunch and shopping in the downtown.
165. Howard Cohen (ZIP code: 
)
166. Laura Kubba (ZIP code: 
)
We need to protect our community and especially the ones on vulnerable modes of transportation.
Teach our community driving safety, please!
167. Ellie Lib (ZIP code: 
)
168. Garrett Clark (ZIP code: 
)
As a visitor to San Mateo, I can confidently say that the value of bike lanes such as these far exceed
the parking spaces removed.  Please do not engage in policies which worsen our climate crisis.  We
need more people biking not less.  Recent news about the health impacts of recirculated street
particles (PM 2.5) and high includes brake dust, hydrocarbons, benzene, etc. all weigh in favor of
limiting driving especially along active corridors such as this.  Importantly, EVs will not address these
particles which do not originate from any tailpipe and in fact may worsen air quality due to their
heavier weight resulting in greater friction with the road and tires.
169. Teresa Wen (ZIP code: 
)
263 of 368

--- page 264 ---
170. Crystal  Bevis  (ZIP code: 
)
171. Jax Kendall (ZIP code: 
)
You shouldn't be removing bike lanes you should be adding them and making them protected
otherwise people will ride on the sidewalk and almost always hit me because they can't ride in the
lanes you guys take away
172. Marie Berini (ZIP code: 
)
Please keep these bike lanes open for the safety of all cyclists & to tear something up that was just
put in is a waste of money it’s more beneficial for them to stay & Save lives of the cyclists
173. An anonymous signer  (ZIP code: 
)
The bike lanes make it safer for drivers and pedestrians too! There is way less overall congestion on
bike-lane streets so drivers are not pulling to the side/taking turns while looking out for pedestrians
and cyclists with minimal visibility because of all the parked cars. Less potential accidents for both
cars and people! I deliberately spent time on google maps looking up streets w/ dedicated bike lines
to create my school drop off route. If you're not going to add more bike lanes, at least don't take away
the existing ones!
174. Riya Singh (ZIP code: 
)
175. Lana de Leon (ZIP code: 
)
176. Jo Echaure (ZIP code: 
)
177. thalia lubin (ZIP code: 
)
This is wrong and dangerous!
178. Larissa Kenny (ZIP code: 
)
179. Mary Lynagh (ZIP code: 
)
I am a teacher who bikes to work every day. I see many students using those lanes. Please do not
remove them for safety of our students and me. It is also a healthy choice to encourage everyone to
cycle instead of creating more parking spaces. Please do not go backward. Save our bike lanes. We
love them!!!!!!!!
180. Daniela Nelms (ZIP code:
)
181. Karina  Wilhelms (ZIP code: 
182. Katrina  Bornstein  (ZIP code: 
)
We should be promoting alternative methods of transportation like cycling, not removing bike lanes.
183. Kyle Burbach (ZIP code: 
)
264 of 368

--- page 265 ---
184. Regina Schnegelberger (Z/P code: i)
185. Nicholas Forino (Z/P code: i)

186. Bruno Abreu (Z/P code: i)

187. Angelica Braga (Z/P code: i)

188. Angelica Nunez (Z/P code: il)

189. Michael Exner (Z/P code: i)
| use the bike lane all the time lol

190. Nathanael Horton (Z/P code: j3)
191. Pia Smith (Z/P code: i)

192. Olivia Kotler (Z/P code: i)
Prioritize the safety of bicyclists over parking spots.

193. John Kirn (Z/P code:

We should be upgrading our bike lanes to be real, true protected bike lanes to provide safety to the
many people who commute by bike, socialize by bike, shop by bike, and exercise by bike. Removing
the lanes would be a step backwards for our climate goals and make San Mateo a poor, second rate
city. | didn’t move here just for conservatives to remove our bike lanes.

194. Amy Xiao (Z/P code: i)

195. Kimberly Shannon (Z/P code:

As an avid cyclist I'm abhorred by this proposal. Drivers are not aware. They're on their phones.
They're in SUVs and pickup trucks so tall they can't see children standing in front of them. We need
every ounce of protection we can get.

196. Craig Anderson (Z/P code: i)

197. Eric Heaton (Z/P code ii)

Insane you’d remove the bike lanes. Instead of wasting 2million to make things less safe for children
and adults why not fix the potholes in north central San Mateo. One of the poorest areas of San
Mateo with terribly maintained roads and instead of fixing things you want to take out bike lanes. What
are you thinking, it’s idiotic to purposely make it more dangerous to bike. North central has the worst
rates of traffic violence in the city, you’d be making it even worse, blood will be on your hands.

198. Sonya Hendren (Z/P code i)

199. Chris Jenny (Z/P code: i)

265 of 368


--- page 266 ---
200. Owen Latham (ZIP code: 
3)
Keep bike lanes next to schools!
201. Brian Lam (ZIP code:
)
Removing Bike Lanes could be detrimental to a community full of students who commute daily using
these bike lanes. Please consider your children and loved ones when making such a big decision that
can impact so many people.
202. Megan Gardner (ZIP code: 
)
Bike lanes are so needed for safety, especially for children! Please do not removed them!
203. Hannah Persampieri (ZIP code
These bike lanes are crucial for the safety of our residents!
204. Marianne Wallace (ZIP code: 
)
205. Vikas Kumar (ZIP code: 
)
I use the bike lane on Humbolt daily to go to work in Burlingame. Removing this lane will put my car
free commute at risk. Bike lanes on this route is essential for me to feel safe during my ride to work.
206. Philip Murphy (ZIP code: 
)
207. Ellen Heile (ZIP code: 
6)
208. kaaren sipes (ZIP code: 
)
Bicycle and pedestrian safety should be top priority. Why spend millions of dollars to remove bike
lanes? The city of San Mateo and the county don't seem to prioritize citizen safety while walking or
biking, somebody got killed in the crosswalk by Hillsdale, a cyclist got killed on canada and another
one got hit on Canada just last week. This is preventable. Especially around schools and on such a
busy street, keep the bike Lanes or of anything stripe the more visibly and put in physical barriers
against cars.
209. Lisa Garrity (ZIP code: 
)
210. Jenise Williams (ZIP code:
Keep the bike lanes! I have hundreds of students who use these bike lanes to come learn at my
school!
211. David Lovato (ZIP code: 
)
Stop trying to fix traffic by adding more lanes. It does not work. There's only one way to reduce traffic
and it's NOT DRIVING. Bike lanes are exactly the remedy for the traffic situation since biking is such
an efficient and healthy mode of travel that there's never traffic on a bike, plus you get health gains
too. People who drive are probably just jealous that their alleged mode of "freedom" is being trapped
in traffic while people on a bike happily move along at their own speed.
212. Andrea  Lim (ZIP code: 
)
266 of 368

--- page 267 ---
213. Francis Johnson (ZIP code: 
)
214. Akira Ijuin (ZIP code: 
)
215. Holden Rodgers (ZIP code: 
)
216. Poky Wu (ZIP code: 
)
217. Priscila  Schochet (ZIP code: 
)
Please keep out roads safe for bikers: parents and kids. Every day we see more and more
irresponsible drivers speeding and not yielding to pedestrians or bikers. Please keep our community
safe.
218. Shiyi Yin (ZIP code: 
)
Please do not close the bike lane, so much death in bike/foot traffic recently in san mateo. closing
bike lane is going backwards
219. Stephen Lubin (ZIP code: 
)
220. Roland Torres (ZIP code: 
)
221. Rodrigo Garcia (ZIP code: 
)
222. Carolynn Beer (ZIP code: 
)
Removing bike lanes seems like a huge step backward, not to mention a frivolous use of money.
223. samuel ubellacker (ZIP code: 
)
224. Clara Coady (ZIP code: 
)
225. Andrey Kislyuk (ZIP code: 
)
Given the year-round cycling-friendly climate of the peninsula and the major negative effects that cars
have on our neighborhoods, the city should be adding more bike lanes, not removing them. Moreover,
grade separation or bollards to provide physical barriers to cars entering bike lanes should be
considered. Equitable treatment of all travel modalities - pedestrians, bikes, and cars - is necessary,
and currently cars are afforded a large majority of space on this and other streets.
226. Tyler Holland (ZIP code: 
)
I ride my bike in San Mateo often, and keeping safe bike lanes is absolutely critical.
227. Minfeixue  Zong (ZIP code: 
)
Can you how many accidents will happen after you guys remove the bike lanes? IF YOU GUYS
INSIST TO REMOVE THE LINES, YOU GUYS NEED TO BARE 100% OF RESPONSIBILITY.
228. Rebecca Hecht (ZIP code: 
)
267 of 368

--- page 268 ---
As a San Mateo resident, | implore you to maintain these bike lanes to keep our community safe.
229. Dan Shaffer (Z/P code: i)

230. Julie (Z/P code: i)

231. Jonathan Chan (Z/P code: i)

232. Kyle Hirst (Z/P code: i)

| use these lanes daily to commute and to bring my kindergartner to school. They are a major priority
in my neighborhood, and for the the safety of my family. While cycling on nearby streets without bike
lanes, | have been knocked down twice by a moving vehicle.

233. An anonymous signer (Z/P code: i)

234. Callie Williams (Z/P code: i)
Safety first

235. Luciana Torre (Z/P code: i)

236. Noah Solnick (Z/P code:
As a daily rider in San Mateo, I'm in favor of adding more bike lanes instead of removing them.

237. Martina Stepisnik (Z/P code:
We need safer ways to get around for people not in cars

238. Maria Alegria (Z/P code: i)

| use the bike lane to hike from Parkside area to San Mateo High School regularly! We need more
action around educating all people to use the bike lanes (instead of biking on the sidewalks) and for
cars to get ticketed when they park in the bike lanes.

239. Jennifer Tran (Z/P code: i)

240. Kevin Milhoan (Z/P code:
We need more bike lines, not fewer. Especially near schools. Safer biking is better for everyone. Do
not remove bike lanes.

241. Suzanne Calhoun (Z/P code i)
242. Jonathan New (Z/P code: i)
243. Jay Patel (Z/P code: i)

244. Joe Morgan (Z/P code:

268 of 368


--- page 269 ---
245. Joe Spina IV (ZIP code: 
)
246. Jill Lang (ZIP code: 
)
We need to keep the bike lanes open for the safety of families biking to school.
247. Andres Mora (ZIP code: 
Why would we remove bike lanes where it's most needed. Don't cars have enough space already.
248. Elizabeth  Hall (ZIP code: 
249. Richard Red (ZIP code: 
250. Michael Lee (ZIP code: 
Bike lanes are vital for the health and protection of students. Make the city more convenient for cars,
not people, is a misstep in priorities. Thank you!
251. Alex Miller (ZIP code: 
252. An anonymous signer  (ZIP code: 
253. Shahfiya Razak (ZIP code: 
254. Joshua Magee (ZIP code: 
255. Karen Canzoneri (ZIP code: 
256. Juan Barrios (ZIP code: 
257. Aaron Mansfield (ZIP code: 
258. Joseph Choe (ZIP code: 
Bike lanes are an important part of my life. They are a necessity to my every day commute.
259. Robert Adams (ZIP code: 
Actively removing infrastructure which is intended **primarily for safety** would be incredibly
shortsighted, wasteful, and dangerous. Please do not remove these bike lanes. Additionally, please
consider adding more. Thank you.
260. David Greenberg (ZIP code: 
261. Liana Chen  (ZIP code: 
262. Greg Martin (ZIP code: 
269 of 368

--- page 270 ---
263. Rebecca Chioi (Z/P code:
264. David Hunt (Z/P code:

265. Zixiao Wang (Z/P code
Keep itl!!!

266. Allison Merkle (Z/P code:
267. Nate Nickolai (Z/P code:

268. Richard Ballard (Z/P code:

Continued build out of bicycle infrastructure is critical to meeting climate goals and supporting a
growing population with alternative transit options. Removing bike lanes is a step backwards. Please
preserve our bicycle infrastructure!

269. Colin Madere (Z/P code: i)
What is best for the whole city?

270. Aaron Minsk (Z/P code: i)

271. Jesse Leben-Wolf (Z/P code I)
Bike lanes are important community features and help keep citizens safe!

272. Molly Hayden (Z/P code: i)
273. Darren Forde (Z/P code: 7 )
274. Aaron Ver (Z/P code

275. Tanner W (Z/P code:

276. Ryan Eisenauer (Z/P code: i)

277. Brian Zamora (Z/P code:

As a cyclist and community member, | strongly support the retention of bike lanes on Humboldt. Safe
and accessible biking infrastructure is essential—not just for those of us who ride regularly, but for
encouraging new riders, reducing traffic congestion, and making our streets safer for everyone.
Prioritizing bike lanes over parking is an investment in a healthier, more sustainable, and more
connected city. Please let’s work to keep these lanes in place

278. Jessica Zucker (Z/P code: i)
We need to move towards more lanes not away from. Too many people rely on them and the sheer
existence of them encourages speed checks on erratic drivers.

270 of 368


--- page 271 ---
279. Kolja Schluetter (ZIP code: 
While I understand the challenges, removing bike infrastructure, reducing safety, and spending
additional tax dollars on demolition would be counterproductive. Instead, I suggest the city implement
a residential parking permit program, which could better balance the needs of all community
members while preserving existing infrastructure.
280. Jack Hughes (ZIP code: 
281. Loriane Stevenson (ZIP code: 
)
282. Thao Le (ZIP code: 
We need these bike lanes to keep school children and families safe!
283. Jennifer  Zee (ZIP code: 
Please keep our streets safe for kids and adults who are getting out there, moving their bodies and
reducing their negative impact on the environment! Keep the bike lanes!
284. Sarah Tollman (ZIP code: 
285. An anonymous signer  (ZIP code: 
286. Bennett Rand (ZIP code: 
287. Aaron Baucom (ZIP code: 
288. Catherine Felix (ZIP code: 
289. Matthew Younkins (ZIP code: 
Removing bike lanes near schools seems idiotic to me, but here we are.
290. An anonymous signer  (ZIP code: 
Cars are not more important than children's lives, simple as that. 
It's shameful that car culture is so pervasive here that even the barest minimum bike lane is at risk to
be replaced with either a slightly wider car lane to encourage higher driving speeds, or more parking
that will block driver visibility and increase the likelihood of collisions with children. 
I ride my bike to the SM Caltrain station through downtown which has no bike lanes and I feel
incredibly unsafe due to illegal, dangerous behavior by people driving vehicles.
We should be adding more bike lanes, not removing them.
291. Eva Tang (ZIP code: 
)
292. Pablo Valle (ZIP code: 
)
271 of 368

--- page 272 ---
We should be building better bike infrastructure not removing it. At what point do we realize that
prioritizing cars is not sustainable. Car infrastructure takes a huge amount of our city space. Please
prioritize people not cars. Invest in healthy ways of life not destructive ones.

293. Hersh Joshi (Z/P code: i)

294. Kyle mix (Z/P code: i)
San Mateo’s bicycle infrastructure is embarrassing on the best of days. Do not make it worse.

295. An anonymous signer (Z/P code: i)

296. Judy Syrkin-Nikolau (Z/P code:
We should be adding more connected bike lanes, not taking bike lanes away!!

297. Nick Bergin (Z/P code: i)
Cycling is unsafe enough. We need more space not less

298. Celeste Wong (Z/P code:

299. Ann Edgar (Z/P code:
As a family we use all bike lanes around our neighborhood

300. Grace Wijaya (Z/P code: i)
301. Ashwin (Z/P code: i)

302. Marci Kindle (Z/P code:
303. Janeth Godoy (Z/P code i)
304. Seth (Z/P code: i)

305. Christina Ogburn-Chow (Z/P code: i)
We cannot afford to put cyclists, especially children, at risk. Please keep these bike lanes. They are
important in trying to keep our communities safe.

306. Caitlin Trahan (Z/P code: i)
These are a crucial way for multiuse transportation.

307. James Zhu (Z/P code: i)

308. Meg McGinty (Z/P code: i)
Please do not remove bike lanes! School children and their parents use these bike lanes every day to
access schools - removing these bike lanes endangers children.

272 of 368


--- page 273 ---
309. erick gutierrez (Z/P code: i)
310. Jeff Harber (Z/P code:

311. Erin Stallings (Z/P code:
We use these lanes! Please don't take them away.

312. Jeff Cardoni (Z/P code:
Removing bike lanes in front of schools. You've gotta be kidding me.

313. Zafarali Ahmed (Z/P code:
314. Adam Steffes (Z/P code i)

315. Paulina Dao (Z/P code:

Bike lanes are critical infrastructure for people commuting to and from work/school/play. California
and the Bay Area prides itself on being a leader in combatting climate change. Creating more
infrastructure that encourages people to use a greener method of transport helps with reducing
congestion, emissions, and so much more. Removing the bike lanes leads to more car/cyclist
collisions and unsafe streets for all. Cities should be deprioritizing vehicular traffic. Additionally,
cycling is an excellent means for movement. Healthy people = healthy cities.

316. Jeremy Poindexter (Z/P code:

317. Ping Yang (Z/P code: ij )
Our kids need to have a safe space to bike / walk yo schools . There are so many kids that are being
dropped off or picked up at this area too.

318. Koosha Jahani (Z/P code: i)
319. Sophia Arnold (Z/P code: i)

320. Steve Kim (Z/P code: i)
The bike lanes are important!

321. Rita Arnold (Z/P code: i)
It's brutal riding a bike out there. Taking away the bike lanes will be dangerous!

322. Ann Powers (Z/P code: i)
323. Arin Davoodian (Z/P code: i)

324. Sydney Cortez (Z/P code: i)

273 of 368


--- page 274 ---
325. Daniela Guadarrama (Z/P code:
326. Angelica Arnold (Z/P code: i)
327. Veda Murthy (Z/P code: i)

328. Zack Hitchcock (Z/P code: i)
More and safer bike lanes are needed. Removing them?! Seriously?

329. Wendy Halverson (Z/P code: i)
330. Robin Barrientos (Z/P code: i)

331. Ryan Chow (Z/P code: i)
Please do not remove the bike lanes on Humboldt

332. Colin Warn (Z/P code: i)

333. Martin Kessler (Z/P code i)
| need this frequently on my commute

334. Matthieu Feiguel (Z/P code: i)

335. Bennet Meyers-Im (Z/P code: i)
Keep our bike lanes! We want to see more infrastructure for bikes in our city not less. These bike
lanes make the streets safer for our children who walk, bike, and scooter to school.

336. Suhith R (Z/P code: J)
337. Lisa Rayle (Z/P code: i)

338. Benedict Chant (Z/P code: i)
As a head of school | have seen the value of giving children the option of a safe ride to school.

339. Judy Colwell (Z/P code: i)
Bike lanes, particularly around schools should be expanded, not reduced.

340. JAMES BOOS (ZIP code: I)
341. Martin Gothberg (Z/P code: i)

342. David Ning (Z/P code: i)

274 of 368


--- page 275 ---
343. Courtney Parks (Z/P code: i)
344. kai wiedman (Z/P code: I)

345. Gary virshup (Z/P code: i)
Please keep the bike lanes.
Kids need safe routes to school.

346. marcia Furey (Z/P code
there are some cyclists that can ride in traffic without biking infrastructure but not many have this skill
set. we need bike lanes for help keep kids safe especially when riding to and from school.

347. Jonathan Penn (Z/P code: i)
348. Mona Schorow (Z/P code:

349. ed wesley (Z/P code:
save the bike lanes

350. Curt Relick (Z/P code:

351. Randal Michnovicz (Z/P code: i)
| bike to work in San Mateo daily and we need more defenses against violent drivers in the city, not
fewer!

352. Aaron Rosenbaum (Z/P code:

353. Craig Boyle (Z/P code:
Please keep the bike lanes. More people riding contributes to health and wellness

354. Peter Bayley (Z/P code:
Please do not remove bike lanes. As a committed cyclist | know this will make cycling more
dangerous

355. Joseph Campbell (Z/P code I)
SM should be adding bike lanes not removing

356. Motonari Ito (Z/P code: i)

As a father of 10yo, who often takes Caltrain and bicycles to explore various bookstores and other
interesting spots in Bay Area, bicycle-friendly roads are essential infrastructure. Please do not remove
them.

357. Caspar Li (Z/P code:
| like the bike lane to YMCA for basketball/exercise, especially at night time.

275 of 368


--- page 276 ---
358. Abbey Li (Z/P code: i)
use the bike lane to YMCA for swimming at the evening.

359. Sunny Li (Z/P code: i)
| feel safe using the bike lane to connect to the bay trail

360. Cindy Asrir (Z/P code: i)

As a mother, a cyclist and a car driver, | urge you to please keep the bike lanes on these streets to
make them safe for children biking to school, for commuters using them to bike to work, and to
improve the overall quality, beauty and livability of these areas. The streets belong to the public for
everyone's good, not for parking. Thank you!

361. Eric Sutter (Z/P code:
362. Lena Giang (Z/P code: i)

363. Ingmar Haffke (Z/P code: i)
Wrt

364. Kai Haffke (Z/P code: i)
Really?

365. John Steward (Z/P code: i)
Are you serious?

366. Robert Tashjian (Z/P code:
367. James Bialson (Z/P code: i)

368. Gregory Smith (Z/P code:
| bike through and around San Mateo all the time. Bike lanes make the roads safer for everyone!

Please don't gift public road space on thru streets to a few entitled locals to store giant lumps of steel
on.

369. Laura Herrera (Z/P code: i)

370. Peter Cole (Z/P code:
Unbelievable

371. Peter Wright (Z/P code i)
Unbelievable

372. Eleonore Wright (Z/P code:
Unbelievable. This must change.

276 of 368


--- page 277 ---
373. Jonathan Gordon (ZIP code: 
)
Save the safe transportation options, keep the bike lanes!
374. David Cheung (ZIP code: 
)
375. Wesley Terpstra (ZIP code: 
)
These bike lanes are on our street. I find it makes the street look much nicer and keeps things much
safer for my children.
376. Wenjin  Cheng (ZIP code: 
)
377. Xuting Sheng (ZIP code: 
378. An anonymous signer  (ZIP code: 
)
379. Joey Galloway (ZIP code: 
)
don't take our fakkin bike lanes
380. James B (ZIP code: 
)
This bike lane is the vital for safer school access for children.  If anything, it should be improved by
making it wider and consider safety bollards.
381. Justin Sell (ZIP code: 
)
382. Gina Meyers-Im (ZIP code: 
)
Please keep the bike lanes! Prioritizing car parking spaces over safe bike lanes is backwards!! Please
do not undo the important work to provide safe bike lanes.
383. Christine Ledlie (ZIP code: 
)
384. James Nee (ZIP code: 
)
385. Jessica O’Neill (ZIP code: 
)
386. An anonymous signer  (ZIP code: 
)
387. Christy Rogers (ZIP code: 
)
388. Sam Schiffman (ZIP code: 
)
Bike lanes provide a safer area for cyclists and commuters. This even benefits motorists because
cyclist will not be on the road with them.
389. Blake Ohlig (ZIP code: 
)
Please protect our children!
277 of 368

--- page 278 ---
390. Casey Straka (ZIP code: 
)
391. Brian Peters (ZIP code: 
)
392. Kevin Han (ZIP code:
)
393. Rewand Congeus (ZIP code: 
)
394. Mandy  Pederson  (ZIP code: 
)
395. Kevin COOPER (ZIP code: 
)
396. Jill Kolongowski (ZIP code: 
)
397. Russell Ellison (ZIP code: 
)
398. Elizabeth Wright (ZIP code: 
)
399. Shanna Howard (ZIP code: 
)
400. Gregory Knauf (ZIP code: 
)
401. Raiyan Seede (ZIP code: 
)
402. Tim Rochte (ZIP code: 
Do not remove bike lanes. More and better are needed
403. Timothy Griffin (ZIP code: 
)
404. John Langbein (ZIP code: 
)
405. Jeff Gelb (ZIP code: 
)
406. Jerome Sun (ZIP code: 
)
407. Bailey Ubellacker (ZIP code: 
)
408. Michelle Hudson (ZIP code: 
)
409. Ricki McGlashan (ZIP code: 
)
We need all the bike lanes we can get!  Please save the one on Humboldt that helps kids get to
school and adults get places w/o using their cars.
278 of 368

--- page 279 ---
410. Erin Lautsch (Z/P code: i)
411. Petra Silton (Z/P code: i)

412. Noah Listgarten (Z/P code
Keep the bike lanes to keep our cities and people safe!

413. Anjuli Mishra (Z/P code: i)

414. Leane Eberhart (Z/P code:
415. Teri Whitehair (Z/P code:

416. Mary Rose LeBaron (Z/P code i)

417. Darren Don (ZIP code:

| commute by bike to work in San Mateo. It is dangerous enough even with bike lanes so removing
bike lanes would significantly increase the risk for accidents and tragic outcomes. Please reconsider
this decision.

418. Rebecca Wernis (Z/P code:

419. Holly Ubellacker (Z/P code: i)
Bike lanes are critical for this community! There need to be MORE not less

420. Belinda Chlouber (Z/P code: i)

Please keep the bike lanes to protect the safety of bicyclists. Please create and promote better safer
bike lanes so more people feel safe biking. |, honestly, think the city didn’t do a very good job creating
the current bike system. I’ve seen such better systems in other cities. Much safer systems.

421. Dr. Gary Trott (Z/P code: i)
Please do not remove the bike lanes.

422. Claire Shintani (Z/P code: i)

423. Clark M (Z/P code ii)
| use your bike lanes regularly to go to San Mateo and support businesses. Please keep these. | use
these lanes.

424. Cameron Squire (Z/P code: i)
425. Natalie Provence (Z/P code: i)

426. Vijan Joshi (Z/P code: i)

279 of 368


--- page 280 ---
As a cyclist and a parent, I’m concerned that removing these bike lanes will make our roads less safe
and create even less incentive for greener modes of transportation.
427. Martta Rajamaki  (ZIP code
)
428. George  Koster  (ZIP code: 
I ride these streets which are very dangerous and it would be wonderful to invest in infrastructure to
make them more accessible and safe for both bicyclists and pedestrians
429. Allison Dodge (ZIP code: 
430. Rena Kao (ZIP code: 
)
431. Alexandra Dove (ZIP code: 
)
432. Rina Choe (ZIP code:
)
433. david kealhofer (ZIP code: 
)
434. Kevin Zhou (ZIP code: 
)
435. Dominic Daniels (ZIP code: 
)
436. Yuan Zhang (ZIP code: 
)
437. Rachel Mitchell (ZIP code: 
Save the bike lanes and build more!
438. Chong Shang (ZIP code: 
)
save bike lanes
439. Craig Funcke (ZIP code: 
)
Promote trips by bike for better health and environment. Reduce car pollution and congestion.
440. Sophia Wong (ZIP code: 
)
I use the bike lane and live on Humboldt - it helps me feel safer as I was almost hit several times prior
to the bike lanes.
441. John Bauters (ZIP code: 
)
Prioritizing the storage of personal vehicles on a public right-of-way over the safety of families and
children who deserve equitable mobility choices to car drivers would be a major step backward for the
City of San Mateo. Finding the political will and courage to do what is right is not always easy. Teddy
bear memorials to children who die due to road violence is are preventable when decision-makers
prioritize safety.
280 of 368

--- page 281 ---
442. Carter Pohl (ZIP code: 
)
443. Harrison Sweeney (ZIP code: 
I bike in this area when riding to the Bay Trail and Coyote Point. This area can be dangerous and
uncomfortable for bikers, and bike lanes give us bikers a safe area that is free from cars. So much of
our land is already dedicated to cars, please save this small space for bikers (which also increases
the buffer between cars and pedestrians).
444. MARCY UECKER (ZIP code: 
)
445. Laura Y (ZIP code: 
446. Janet Byron (ZIP code: 
)
447. Lan Wu (ZIP code: 
448. Tim Ryan (ZIP code: 
)
If someone is injured or killed as a result of these proposed lane removals, city, staff and electric
leaders will never forgive themselves. Nor should they.
449. Edward  Luby (ZIP code:
450. Pamela Derish (ZIP code: 
)
Why after all the planning and cost and construction would the City renege like this?
451. Scott sandstrom (ZIP code: 
)
452. Jason Morton (ZIP code:
)
Are our cities progressive in action or only in theory? Why remove bicycle lanes - critical for protecting
local children cycling to school - which are already there to encourage yet more cars on our streets?
453. Chi Cao Minh (ZIP code:
454. Daniel Austin (ZIP code: 
)
Bikes are essential modes of transport for kids who are sometime required to be independent. A
beginner cyclist travels 5x faster than walking, that means a mile commute changes from 20min to
4min. I was required to walk further than this when I was a kid; I dreamed and even tried to bike to
school, but I lived in an unicorporated part of town with no bike lanes, so it was too dangerous and
difficult.
Additionally dedicated bike lanes can provide important space in emergency situations for cars to pull
out of the way of First responders.
455. Vikas Rawat (ZIP code: 
281 of 368

--- page 282 ---
456. Emily Morris (Z/P code:
Signing as someone who lives along Humboldt St.

457. Anna Lieb (Z/P code: i)

| live in the neighborhood and love having a safe bike route to take my daughter to school and to
parks. Please keep the bike lane so families throughout north central have a safe way to commute via
bike!

458. Tony Pereira (Z/P code:

Many kids around and too many cars!

How would we control it and make it accessible to everyone?
Prioritizing the least protected, pedestrian, cyclists and yet the drivers!
so, bike lanes are essential!

459. Stephanie Ta (Z/P code:

460. Ventsislav Zhechev (Z/P code:

It’s much safer to drive when knowing that bicyclists have their own dedicated lane. This also
promotes better behaviour by bicyclists, who'd otherwise be more likely to swerve around traffic and
ignore stop signs.

461. Stephen Floor (Z/P code:

Bike lanes are good for the health and transportation of San Mateans. Teaching our kids to ride bikes
sets them up for future health. Please preserve as many bike lanes as possible - and focus on adding
more!!

462. Drew Hagerstrom (Z/P code:
463. Courtney Walker (Z/P code:
464. Tiffany Hsu (Z/P code

465. Adit Mané (Z/P code:

466. Andy Yang (Z/P code

Bike lanes, and | mean proper protected lanes, contribute far more to reducing carbon footprint,
vehicle collisions, DUIs, and other automobile related problems than anything else. Don't be
counterproductive to green energy.

467. Danielle Johnson (Z/P code:

468. Kevin Cheng (Z/P code: i)
More parking spaces for more cars means more traffic. Subsidizing private car ownership at the cost
of public bike lanes is unfair.

282 of 368


--- page 283 ---
469. Rosario Sarno (Z/P code: i)
470. Laura Long (Z/P code i)

471. Bec Sankauskas (Z/P code: i)

| believe that bike lanes play an integral part of every well functioning society. If we want to encourage
people to ride their bicycles more when running local errands or commuting on public transport, then
we also have a responsibility to provide them with a safe way of doing that. Please focus on
enhancing and extending the current bike lane network and do not reduce it! Thank you!

472. Peter Sankauskas (Z/P code: J)

473. Kristina Frederick (Z/P code i)
Please do not make detrimental changes to our bike lanes. Many many people rely on these lanes
for safe travel thru our city. We should be making more bike lanes, not taking any away

474. Hunter Oatman-Stanford (Z/P code:
475. Gabriel Gachet (Z/P code: i)
476. Stephanie Crockett (Z/P code: i)

477. Kristin Hiensch (Z/P code:
San Mateo taxpayers invested in these bike lanes. We need to keep them.

478. mark m (Z/P code:
We need more bike lanes, not less

479. William Galush (Z/P code: i)

480. Jenny Kim (Z/P code: i)
Keep bikers safe!

481. Carolyn Healy (Z/P code: i)

Let’s move forward, not backward San Mateo! All these housing developments along the train
corridor with only one parking spot per unit? Why are you surprised that more people are turning to
cycling as their transportation means? Isn't that the idea? Doesn't climate change mean anything to
the City?

482. Robert Kauser (Z/P code:
Save the bike lanes!

483. Colton Yee (Z/P code:

484. Frank Houghton (Z/P code: i)

283 of 368


--- page 284 ---
485. Martin Renteria (Z/P code: i)

486. stephanie shaw (Z/P code:
Please keep all San Mateo bike lanes and continue to add more. Thanks.

487. Tom Luong (Z/P code: i)
We should provide a more safe way for our public to commute. What percentage of roads now have
bikes lanes? Let's promote a healthier and safer lifestyle.

488. Howon Lee (Z/P code
| work in San Mateo and I’m shocked that the city council prioritizes NIMBYism over its children's
safety and lives.

489. Craig Chinn (Z/P code:

490. Kirsti Way (Z/P code:
Keep the bike lanes and add parking permits to the neighborhood. Each house can have two permits
completely free, if a resident needs more parking permits they can purchase them.

491. Rama Roberts (Z/P code: i)

492. Patricia Fuenzalida (Z/P code:
We need more safe biking lanes not millions spent to remove existing lanes.

493. Zlatko Unger (Z/P code:
It's ridiculous that we are so car-dependant and have to take away safety from those that do not have
alternative means, or simply do not want to deal with cars.

494. Jo Dabir (Z/P code: i)
These bikes lanes are used daily to run errands, to Dr. Appointments, etc.

495. Ganna Kolesnik (Z/P code:

| believe the bikes are the only way for our future and to create better environment for our future
generations. Netherlands is a good example. Where are a lot of bikes , safer traffic, less cars , better
environment.

496. Wendy Storer (Z/P code: i)
Please don’t take them away . I’m nervous riding in bike lanes can’t imagine without! Probably won't
ride?

497. Kristina Bergess (Z/P code: i)

498. Jonathan Blum (Z/P code: i)

284 of 368


--- page 285 ---
499. Sebastian Golden (Z/P code: i)

500. joseph caceres (Z/P code:
| use and depend on the bike lanes for my daily work commute and local shopping

501. Margaret Reid (Z/P code:
Please work to find a compromise that retains safe bike routes for all.

502. Kevin Li (Z/P code: i)

503. Merel Witteveen (Z/P code:
Please keep the streets safe for bikes!

504. Tatyana Filippova-Miller (Z/P code: i)
Having active bikers in all my three daughters' families, | insist to keep the SAFE BIKE lanes on the
streets!!!

505. Shannon McGovern (Z/P code: i)
Save the bike lanes, protect our kids!!

506. Ana Dulcey (Z/P code: i)
Please protect our cyclists.

507. An anonymous signer (Z/P code: i)
508. Jasmine Chu (Z/P code i)
509. Mike Moser (Z/P code:

510. Krista McCutcheon (Z/P code: i)

Becoming less car centric is healthy for everyone. But it takes vision, determination, forward thinking
leadership, patience and time to evolve to it. These bike lanes were the right decision and | urge you
to stay firm.

511. Nathaniel Bogie (Z/P code: i)

Bike infrastructure throughout San Mateo county is lacking, although there have been improvements
in the last decade or so. I’ve noticed that good bike infrastructure leads to more people on bikes while
bad bike infrastructure stops people from even trying, so any effort to remove bike infrastructure | see
as a net negative for our transportation goals.

512. Anne Pesquie (Z/P code i)

513. Carole Lozito (Z/P code:
Do not rip up these important bike lanes! Shame on you City Council if you do!

285 of 368


--- page 286 ---
514. Jennifer Ramberg (Z/P code: i)
Removing bike lanes is asking for many accidents. Removing bike lanes will create much chaos with
bikes sharing the roads with vehicles. Accidents, and maybe deaths, will happen.

515. lan Milne (Z/P code
516. Janelle (Z/P code: i)
517. Tami Osheroff (Z/P code:

518. Paige Leung (Z/P code:

It is important to keep the bike lanes in San Mateo High because we should encourage this mode of
transportation as it is environmentally conscious. The recent L.A. wildfires and other extreme weather
changes has reminded us the impacts climate change can have. By doing the little things such as
keeping bike lanes and banning artificial turf, local governments can do their part to protect our
planet.

519. Emma Dougherty (Z/P code: i)

520. Gene McKenna (Z/P code:
Bike safety is child safety. Bike safety is environmental safety.

521. Clayton Ketner (Z/P code: i)
522. Warren Long (Z/P code:

523. Chris Ketner (Z/P code:

| am a voter and a taxpayer. | don’t want the city to remove the bike lanes to restore parking to an
area that has driveways and garages. | don’t want my tax dollars paying for parking for extra gas
guzzler’s,RVs and illegally parked commercial vehicles. | want my tax dollars to go to safer streets.
Don’t waste money, removing the bike lanes.

524. Carol Steinfeld (Z/P code: i)

The road is for transportation not for car storage. The cars on this street create hazards for cyclists,
something the bike lane mitigated. Note, too, that residents throughout San Mateo forego using their
driveways and garages for car storage, instead placing this personal property on the public's
roadways, creating hazards. Look to the other side of El Camino for this, too. Let's use driveways and
garages for cars, not the public road.

525. Jacki Yahn (Z/P code:
526. Erika Lin (Z/P code: i)

527. Carly Bond (Z/P code:

286 of 368


--- page 287 ---
528. Gladwyn d'Souza (Z/P code:
Please retain bike lanes to prove a safe way for essential workers to travel safely and mitigate the
effects climate change

529. Jason Gates (Z/P code:
Removing the bike lane won’t solve the parking issue

530. Liat Perlman (Z/P code:
Such a ridiculous proposition to remove what's already there to help cyclists and cars share the road
inna safer manner. Whoever proposed this is the one who should be removed.

531. lvana Sebastian (Z/P code: i)
532. Emily Ma (Z/P code: i)

533. Sonja Hansen (Z/P code: I)

534. Hedwig De ocampo (Z/P code:

535. Bennett Lee (Z/P code i)

Save the bike lanes, everyone should get out of their cars and ride a bike, it’s healthy and good for the
environment. Plus, a lot of people, children, and commuters need to be ensured safety. And most
cars on the street are just there because nobody wants to park in the garages or driveways!

536. Jordan Grimes (Z/P code:

537. Daniel Schonberg (Z/P code:

Having recently been hit by a car while biking, | have personally seen how one sided the balance
between driving and cycling is in California. Cars have been on a 100+ year win streak. The small
wins cycling has got leave it still so dangerous that I'm not surprised more are hesitant to use it. We
haven't gone too far for cycling. We haven't gone nearly far enough.

538. Ryan McAdam (Z/P code: i)

539. Anna Liu (Z/P code: i)
Please save the new bike lanes. Bike lanes are essential to keep people who commute by bike safe,
and they improve our community in many ways.

540. Joel Caceres (Z/P code: i)
SAVE THE BIKE LANES!

541. James Ross (Z/P code: i)

| bike too and from San Mateo High School every day and | don’t know what | would do without these
bike lanes. This area is already dangerous with bike lanes, and it will become significantly more so
without them.

287 of 368


--- page 288 ---
542. Hana Shing (Z/P code: i)
save the bike lines!!

543. Kinsey Kubitz (Z/P code: i)
544. Trevor Rizzo (Z/P code: i)
545. Maanyaa Mishra (Z/P code:
546. Marin Hrga (Z/P code: i)

547. Anthony Hsiao (Z/P code:
What are people thinking by removing the bike lanes. | ride my bike to and fro to San Mateo High.
There is already lots of space in the sidewalk enough to have 3 people walking side by side.

548. Rhys Townsager (Z/P code: i)
YAY

549. Kevin Acuna (Z/P code: i)

| use bike lanes all the time and I’ve never had an accident but if bike lanes get removed | feel like
there will be more cases of hit and runs and people getting runner over. | say we should keep the bike
lanes for the safety of citizens

550. Jordan Anderson (Z/P code: i)

551. Jose Ortiz (Z/P code: i)
Stop wasting money

552. Michael Parrett (Z/P code: i)
553. Emily Tutuska (Z/P code:

554. Natalie Hodson (Z/P code:
Dear San Mateo representatives,

| live in the South Bay but visit the peninsula often, to visit family friends or to enjoy your local
restaurants and often bike back home via the Bay Trail or Palm/Old Country road. I'll usually take the
Caltrain and meet up with my friends at different spots around the city.

This begs the question: have you yourself ever biked in San Mateo?

It is NOT EASY. | am a very confident cyclist - I've spend years biking in urban and suburban areas in
WA and CA. And let me tell you, the San Mateo region is a disjointed and unconnected mess. There
are a few “bike friendly” streets, but many end abruptly or merge between sharrows/bike lanes often,
causing completely unnecessary and unavoidable interactions with cars. There is a much higher
traffic density built on narrower roads. There is so much random road debris, broken infrastructure &

288 of 368


--- page 289 ---
non-bike sensing lights, meaning you either have to make risky calculations or wait for the mercy of a
car coming your way. 
San Mateo should be a world-class cycling heaven. The weather is great and you are a major Caltrain
stop. There are so many families and schools that are better off for having quality access to safer bike
lanes - this bike lane is literally bordering the high school!! Thousands of teens are allowed greater
independence & more exercise with this existing. The idea of removing a bike lane - especially when
it would cost *three million dollars* - is a slap in the face to your citizens, all of whom have to leave
their car at one point or another and interact with the world at large.
And let’s be clear, a strip of paint on the road is not safe cycling infrastructure. Removing this absolute
bare minimum attempt at encouraging active transportation is actually so ridiculous it borders on
offensive - removing this bike lane would serve only to waste money and spit on your Vision Zero
goals.
I urge you to aim higher and dream bigger. I truly believe cities receive the behavior their
infrastructure deserve…. If you want an active, thriving community that doesn’t prioritize storing
people’s private properly on city streets over public health and fighting climate change, we have to be
daring enough to dream it and build it now. And most of all, I urge you to hop on a bike and try to
cross the length of San Mateo. Even just from the Caltrain to the Bay Trail is an…illuminating
experience.
Thank you so much for your time. I look forward to visiting soon and have my fingers crossed for
future improvements!
555. Aaron Hanna (ZIP code: 
As a lifetime bike rider and racer of more than 20 years, road and mountain, I still feel more danger on
roads without dedicated bike lanes than in a race peloton. Regardless of the law on how close a car
can pass, without dedicated bike lanes, cars will come closer to riders than is safe for all. And what if
that rider is a minor and new to cycling? And what if they are your child?
556. Kim Achziger (ZIP code: 
)
Please do not remove the safety of bike lanes.  We need safe bike routes to all schools and parks.
We also need a safe route from town to town. It would help reduce car congestion. California and
SanMateo claim to have active healthy people.  Please support this by keeping existing bike lanes
and making more.
557. Richard Boyer (ZIP code: 
558. Tom Murphy (ZIP code: 
559. Tristan Sayre (ZIP code: 
560. Lee Stebbins (ZIP code: 
Just another example of irrational behaver by politicians not looking at the big picture and saving lives.
561. steven atneosen (ZIP code: 
289 of 368

--- page 290 ---
562. Alixe Meng (Z/P code
Bike commuting and activity should be encouraged - taking away safe lanes especially near schools
is shortsighted.

563. Jean Jackman (Z/P code:
Help us all keep biking and saving the planet and staying healthy

564. Matthew Harray (Z/P code:
I’m a resident and bike commuter in San Mateo and | want to see many more bicycle lanes in my
community, not fewer!

565. Richard Moala (Z/P code:
566. Leslie Aleman (Z/P code:
567. Erin Fieberling (Z/P code:

568. rahman batin (Z/P code:
i cycle all over northern california, the bay area and thru San Mateo. we need MORE bike lanes +
safe routes, NOT FEWER.

569. Michael Smiley (Z/P code:

570. Bruce Dughi (Z/P code

Your example to remove bike lanes hurts other cities/communities. Our Municipal Advisory Committee
specifically cited the San Mateo bike lane removal in a similar effort to remove new bike lanes in
Castro Valley. This is very frustrating. How will we ever get people out of their cars by continuously
catering to them. We know we need to reduce driving since most of our greenhouse gases come from
driving.

571. Stephanie Reyes (Z/P code:
My son is a Fiesta Gardens student and currently bikes to school. | would not feel safe having him
bike to school next year at the new location without protected bike lanes!

572. Jeremiah Rohr (Z/P code:

While | don't live in your district | do want to support the 20% of your constituents that don't own a car,
either by economic circumstances or other more loftier goals. Having safe space on our Public Right
of Ways for Active Transportation is a necessity in our world today.

573. Steven Solomon (Z/P code:

| don't live in San Mateo, but | lived in the area for many years. | have replaced most of my car trips
with e-bike trips and many other people would like to do the same if there are safer bike facilities.
Kids in America should be able to bike to school, and lower income people should have more
alternatives to driving. Car ownership is nearing $12,000 a year. Please do not go backward. Go
forward--it takes a bit of courage but everyone will ultimately benefit--including those who choose to
drive a car.

290 of 368


--- page 291 ---
574. Savita Nataraj (Z/P code: i)

575. Christi Toa (Z/P code: i)

576. Chris Nelms (Z/P code: i)

577. Alejandra Astorga (Z/P code: i)
578. Kyle Wan (Z/P code: i)

579. Evelynn Hernandez (Z/P code:
580. Justin Chou-Belden (Z/P code
581. Perry Gu (Z/P code

582. Mina Mok (Z/P code: i

583. Zachary Koh (Z/P code:

584. Dave Scott (Z/P code:

585. Tony Ling (Z/P code:

586. nellie ling (Z/P code:

587. Siri Patel (Z/P code

588. Natasha Mariathasan (Z/P code: i)
589. Sean Monroe (Z/P code: i)

590. Terria Brewer (Z/P code: i)

591. Xiaodan Xu (Z/P code: i)
It is really important to keep the bike lanes for school kids and make sure their travel to/from the
school is safe and clean.

592. Joseph Fung (Z/P code:

593. Zoe Chien (Z/P code: i)

291 of 368


--- page 292 ---
594. Hayes Schwarz (ZIP code: 
)
595. Justin Chou-Belden (ZIP code: 
)
596. Sean Schochet (ZIP code: 
)
597. Justin Truong (ZIP code: 
)
598. Leyla Ozgur Alhassen (ZIP code:
)
599. Nancy  Milano  (ZIP code: 
)
You City officials waste so much money. You put the bike lanes in for a reason, especially around
schools, schools have children that ride bikes!
Now you want to remove them to put them in again in 3 yrs! 
Your suppose to help kids get to school safely not set them up to get hurt!
600. Shanelle Mishlof  (ZIP code: 
)
601. Kathleen Murphy  (ZIP code: 
)
602. Pt Lind (ZIP code: 
)
603. Shannon Aminirad (ZIP code: 
)
604. Catherine Brown (ZIP code: 
How can we legitimately claim to care for residents’ safety, as well as reducing climate impact, when
walking and biking become life-risking actIons?
605. John Bascombe (ZIP code: 
606. VISHNU VARDHAN Chandra Kumaran (ZIP code: 
)
607. Rod Hsiao (ZIP code: 
My boys and I bike have biked to College park, Bayside and SMHS every year, K-9 (so far)! Drivers
are much more aggressive now and speeding around MLK and surrounding streets.
608. Sam Price (ZIP code: 
I'm an avid biker, putting personal vehicle storage ahead of biker safety is a great way to lose my vote.
609. Frank Casale (ZIP code:
Bike Lanes !
We need em‘ !
610. Jacqueline Oicata (ZIP code: 
292 of 368

--- page 293 ---
611.

Sean Schochet (Z/P code:

Move forward with our city goals of less cars and more bicycles. Lanes are the only safe bike
commute; sharrows do little to promote cycling.

612.

613.

614.

615.

616.

617.

618.

619.

620.

621.

622.

623.

624.

625.

626.

Emily Cheng (Z/P code:

Hannah Young (Z/P code: iii

Emme Young (Z/P code:

Kavya Babu (Z/P code:

Leigh Roslansky (Z/P code iii
Jocelyn Nassar (Z/P code: f )
Alexander Atkins (Z/P code:
giuliano carlini (Z/P code: i

An anonymous signer (Z/P code:
Caephren McKenna (Z/P code
Medha Chellapilla (Z/P code: i)
Naisha Oberai (Z/P code:

Sofia Diaz (Z/P code:
maximillian lee (Z/P code:

Rishika Mukherjee (Z/P code:

Make my school safer!

627.

austin jimenez (Z/P code:

| love bikes and bike lanes

628.

Ethan Abarca (Z/P code:

| like bikes and | skate so we need road

629.

Mari Erfort (Z/P code:

The bike lanes are really important and help keep my friends safe when they bike to school

293 of 368


--- page 294 ---
630. Prateeksha Patel (Z/P code:
631. Stewart Peugh (Z/P code:
632. Tiffany Siu (Z/P code:

633. Colin McLaughlin (Z/P code:

Spending millions to remove bike lanes is a terrible idea. The city will never receive grant money
again, and the proposed Fremont and Idaho Street bike lanes are circuitous and dangerous for
cyclists. As a North Central resident, | support keeping the bike lanes on Humboldt. | live on
Humboldt Street and know that most of these houses have unused driveways. The council should
prioritize providing safe routes for kids to get to school by bike over catering to a few complaining
neighbors. Removing this bike lane should never have been a consideration. Instead, the council
should move forward with the promised lighting and sidewalk improvements for residents

634. mae lae (Z/P code:

635. Kerstin Beckh (Z/P code:
Kerstin

636. Wayne Young (Z/P code:
Uphold the San Mateo City Master Plan.

637. Michael Batchelder (Z/P code:
As a frequent bicycle commuter from my home in Bay Meadows, | very much appreciate the new bike
lanes.

638. Devora kothari (Z/P code:

639. David Pollack (Z/P code ii
| work at and commute to SMHS by bike.

640. Al Park (Z/P code:

641. Lizzie Siegle (Z/P code:
642. Joshua Gould (Z/P code:
643. Shai Ring (Z/P code: i)
644. Allison Oh (Z/P code: i)

645. Kayla Ling (Z/P code: i)

294 of 368


--- page 295 ---
646. Lauren Cony (Z/P code: i)
| bike in Burlingame and San Mateo, and support safe bike routes! Thank you.

647. Karyn Bechtel (Z/P code: i)
The Peninsula needs more bike lanes, not less. Please prioritize this in your planning.

648. Laura Brash (Z/P code: i)

649. Chip Goldstein (Z/P code:
Although not a resident of San Mateo, | am a bicycle rider and environmental activist, so | believe that
this proposed change would be detrimental to climate goals.

650. Madalyn Friedman (Z/P code: i)
651. Jane Sreeram (Z/P code: i)

652. Flowe Miller (Z/P code: i)

653. An anonymous signer (Z/P code: i)

654. Alyson Geller (Z/P code: i)

Bike lanes are proven protect the most vulnerable road users and ease congestion by reducing the
number of cars on the road. Ripping these out - in a school zone no less - will put hundreds of
children and families at risk. Communities around the country are seeing crashes go down as a result
of protective infrastructure like bike lanes. It boggles the mind that San Mateo is willing to move
backward.

655. Elsa Schafer (Z/P code: i)

Please, please take care of we who use and NEED the bike lanes! They given tens of thousands of
us safe, affordable routes to school and work. Please continue being the aware, caring, thoughtful -
as in full of thought - city we are and continue to be proud of!!

Thank you__

656. Eamonn Hargadon (Z/P code: i)

657. Steven Molof (Z/P code: i)
Save the bike lanes!

658. Marsha Meyerhoff (Z/P code: i)
659. Fabiola Garcia (Z/P code I)
660. Darnell Granberry’ (Z/P code: i)

661. Debra Van Scherpe (Z/P code: i)

295 of 368


--- page 296 ---
Debra Van Scherpe
662. Jayden Wan (ZIP code: 
663. Clara Voon (ZIP code: 
664. Carlos Garcia  (ZIP code: 
)
Just allow it
665. Tracey Freyre (ZIP code: 
)
666. Natalie Dias (ZIP code: 
)
Please keep the bike lanes! So many students at my school (San Mateo) use them to get safely on
campus.
667. Yassen Zhechev (ZIP code: 
)
668. Leia  Asanuma (ZIP code: 
)
669. Samantha Hodge (ZIP code: 
)
670. Lucy Roberts (ZIP code: 
)
671. Yi Chun Chen (ZIP code: 
)
672. Yili Young (ZIP code: 
)
I live in North Central and I support keeping the bike lanes.
673. Young Chao (ZIP code
674. Ness Zelony (ZIP code: 
My friend bikes to school and the bike lanes are a safety measure that helps him and other bikers not
get hit.
675. Eve Tiu (ZIP code: 
)
676. Gina Valderrama (ZIP code: 
)
677. Shalan Chau (ZIP code: 
)
678. Spencer te Wildt (ZIP code: 
)
679. Raymond Wu (ZIP code: 
)
296 of 368

--- page 297 ---
680. Michael Gachet (ZIP code: 
681. Charlotte Dunbar (ZIP code: 
please keep the bike lane
682. Tim Durkim (ZIP code: 
)
683. Georgia Giari (ZIP code: 
)
684. Geoffry  Svacha (ZIP code: 
)
I ride on the bike lanes in San Mateo everyday to drop off my first grader at Parkside Elementary and
my toddler at Shu Academy preschool.
685. Chantal Henderson (ZIP code: 
)
686. Jeff Ho (ZIP code: 
)
We need more bike lanes not less to encourage less traffic and healthier forms of commuting.
687. Daniel Kao (ZIP code: 
)
688. Catherine K (ZIP code: 
)
689. Peter S (ZIP code: 
)
297 of 368

--- page 298 ---
1
From:
Mike Swire 
Sent:
Monday, February 2, 2026 10:24 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Pix, videos and TV coverage of yesterday's Ride and Rally for the Humboldt bike lanes
Hi City Council, 
 
I wanted to share with you some pix and videos from our rally and ride yesterday at Fiesta Gardens 
Elementary and on Humboldt.  We had probably 30 families with lots of teens and little kids.  Several 
community members and leaders spoke on the importance of keeping the bike lanes; even some kids 
made comments.  Everyone then had a great time. 
 
SMPD (Officer Savage) did a great job of keeping us safe.  Sadly, many of the families were harassed by 
Trina Pierce and friends while they were riding.  Ms. Pierce shouted at adults and small children, telling 
them to go back to "their neighborhoods" and asking whether they were paid actors.  This is 
disappointing because the families were simply riding in the bike lanes, not accosting anyone while 
riding.  I have informed Chief Barberini so that he can ensure that everyone is safe and cordial at tonight's
meeting. 
 
See you tonight and thanks for your efforts for the City, 
 
Mike Swire 
298 of 368

--- page 299 ---
RESOLUTION NO. 10/24-25

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION
OF THE SAN MATEO-FOSTER CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT
IN SUPPORT OF THE PRESERVATION OF SAFE BICYCLE LANES
ON HUMBOLDT STREET IN SAN MATEO

WHEREAS, it is of utmost importance that we address the critical need to maintain safe and
accessible bicycle infrastructure within our community.

Meanwhile, ensuring our students’ and families' safety and well-being is paramount to creating a
sustainable and secure environment for all individuals.

WHEREAS, the Humboldt Street bike lanes, stretching 1.6 miles, stand as one of the longest and
most vital segments of bicycle infrastructure in the City of San Mateo. These lanes serve four
schools directly, benefitting the entire schoo! district community, and provide a crucial link to
downtown San Mateo and public transportation.

WHEREAS, the strategic location of these bike lanes makes them an important component of the
city's bicycle network. This network enables regional connectivity to safe bicycle overpasses over
Highway 101, connects the east and west sides of San Mateo, and provides bike routes to Foster
City and Burlingame. It plays a vital role in ensuring the safety and mobility of cyclists throughout
the region.

WHEREAS, we express our concerns regarding pedestrian safety along Humboldt Street and in the
North Central neighborhood. We firmly believe in slowing down vehicle traffic without compromising
existing bicycle infrastructure.

WHEREAS, Safe Routes to Schools offers students the opportunity to commute to school safely,
minimizing reliance on cars and reducing overall vehicle congestion. We believe that the City of San
Mateo possesses an array of effective tools that can be implemented to decrease vehicle speeds
and enhance the safety of our entire community.

WHEREAS, we strongly recommend that the City of San Mateo take immediate action to preserve
the safe infrastructure of the Humboldt Street bike lanes, which were diligently installed in 2022.
The recent City of San Mateo data reveals that these lanes are a crucial transportation route for
over 10,000 monthly bicycle trips.

WHEREAS, efforts to remove the Humboldt Street bike lanes and impose a shared space with
vehicle traffic would be detrimental to the objectives of Safe Routes to School and pose a significant
threat to the overall safety and well-being of all individuals utilizing these routes.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, we urge the San Mateo City Council to maintain the
integrity of the Humboldt Street bike lanes for the benefit of our community. Your attention to this
matter and subsequent support in preserving these vital transportation routes will undoubtedly
enhance safety and accessibility for all residents.

ADOPTED, SIGNED, AND APPROVED this 23rd day of January 2025.

299 of 368


--- page 300 ---
a liSa Brooks
President of the Governing Board
San Mateo-Foster City School District

F “Diego Oclno Secretary of the Governing Board of the San

Mateo-Foster City School District, do hereby certify that the foregoing Resolution was adopted by
the Governing Board of said District at a meeting of said Board held on the 23rd day of January
2025 and that it was so adopted by the following vote:

AYES: vA

NOES:
ABSTAIN:
ABSENT:

Diego R. Ochoa
Secretary of the Governing Board
San Mateo-Foster City School District

300 of 368


--- page 301 ---
1
From:
Maggie Trinh 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 7:30 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
SMFCSD Resolution 10-24/25
Attachments:
SMFC Resolution 10-24_25.pdf
Good morning, 
 
In advance of next week's meeting, I'm writing to convey the signed resolution adopted by the San Mateo-
Foster City School District on January 23, 2025 in support of the Humboldt bike lanes and Safe Routes to 
School more generally, and ask that this be included in the agenda packet. I appreciate your time and 
attention to this important issue. 
 
Thank you, 
 
Maggie Trinh 
Board President 
San Mateo-Foster City School District Board of Trustees 
301 of 368

--- page 302 ---
1
From:
Mari 
Sent:
Saturday, January 31, 2026 9:15 AM
To:
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki; Nicole Fernandez; Adam Loraine; Rob Newsom; Lisa Diaz Nash
Cc:
Clerk; City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
I Support Keeping the Humboldt Bike Lane AS IS
To the City Council, 
I’m writing as a North Central parent and resident to ask you to protect and maintain the Humboldt 
Street bike lane exactly as it is. Two-thirds of community members surveyed, even those who live on 
Humboldt itself, support keeping the lane intact. That should carry weight. 
As the weather improves, my family uses this lane more and more. My kids ride it to elementary school, I 
use it to commute by bike to my job in Burlingame, and my in-laws—who are in their mid 70s, don’t drive, 
and live south of downtown—use it to visit us and pick up our kids from school. We rely on this 
infrastructure. 
It’s frustrating to hear claims that the bike lane “isn’t successful” when the city never completed the full 
network or promoted its use. If we only implement parts of a plan, of course the outcome will fall short. 
That doesn’t mean the plan failed—it means we didn’t finish the work. 
And frankly, I can’t understand how parking spots and convenience are being elevated above basic 
safety. Do we value cleaner air? Then we need more bikes. Do we want kids to move freely and 
independently, not just sit in cars? Then we need more bikes. Do we want a connected, livable 
community? Then we need more bikes. 
If that’s our goal, we must connect the lanes. Build more of them. Promote them. Create city-led rides 
and safety campaigns. Show people how to use this infrastructure—not blame them when it’s still new 
and incomplete. 
At a previous meeting, I heard people say they can’t walk groceries from a few blocks away. But why not 
unload groceries at your driveway and then park? Yes, it may take a few extra minutes and a little bit of 
walking. It might even improve our health. Meanwhile, people are getting hit on our streets. We can do 
better than this. 
Please don’t reverse a public investment that’s already improving safety. Move forward, not backward—
with leadership that reflects the city we want to become. 
With hope and respect, 
Mariana Tiwari 
North Central  
302 of 368

--- page 303 ---
1
From:
Linda Tribuzi 
>
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 11:14 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Bike Lanes and parking in San Mateo
Hello, 
Please return the parking to North Central residents! 
 
I am appalled by what is happening with parking and bike lanes in San Mateo.  Please listen to the 
city residents and take appropriate action to accommodate all citizens, not just a few and special 
interest groups.  Citizens need to use roads for driving a car and parking.    
 
Additional comments: 
> 28th Avenue that has been a bike lane now for years - I live near this street and rarely see bikers on 
this street. With the train underpass built a few years ago this is now a major and busy street and 
intersection.  I see a high volume of cars on this street all the time and it is not safe for it to also be a street 
designated for bikers.   
> Alameda de las Pulgas is a major and highly used road - do not add a bike lane. 
> If you continue to add bike lanes in San Mateo it will result in increased time to drive to destinations and 
traffic congestion.   
 
Regards, 
Linda Tribuzi 
303 of 368

--- page 304 ---
1
From:
Bob Wackerman 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 9:28 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Return parking to North Central residents
Councilmemebers, especially the council member for North Central, 
Return the parking you selfishly eliminated from the entirety of Humboldt St. Do something for the 
neighborhood who elected you. 
Sincerely, 
Biff Bavaqua 
District 1 
304 of 368

--- page 305 ---
1
From:
Connie Weiss 
Sent:
Saturday, January 31, 2026 12:14 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
February 2, 2026 Agenda Item 7: Humboldt Bike Lanes Alternative - Update
Honorable San Mateo City Council Members, 
The February 2nd City Council agenda includes an item which will determine who has more influence 
with City Council: well-funded special interests or the voices of residents. 
In February 2022, residents of North Central, an Equity Priority Neighborhood, were clear: bike lanes 
on Humboldt were not an issue if parking was not removed. Ms.Trina Pierce presented the 2022 City 
Council a petition signed by 748 residents objecting to removal of street parking. That night, the City 
Council ignored the voices of residents and voted to establish the bike lanes. 
The Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG) grant funding was clearly provided to 
improve the North Central and Shoreview neighborhoods with much needed street lighting, sidewalk 
repairs, and repairs to the Martin Luther King Center, among other items, that would directly benefit 
North Central and Shoreview residents. Installing bike lanes was not listed in the grant. 
North Central and Shoreview saw little or no improvements resulting from the grant funding. The 
funds intended for improvements that would directly benefit the community were spent to provide 
little-used and unsafe bike lanes. The grant funding certainly was not awarded to create a power-play 
between well-funded bicycle special interest groups and the residents of a neighborhood who are 
simply trying to get by. 
From 2022 to 2025, there were periodic, aggressive and loud demands by people aligned with bicycle 
special interests and the muted voices of real residents of North Central whose lives have been 
greatly impacted by the bike lanes. Then, in February 2025, the current City Council discussed and 
adopted a plan to restore parking to Humboldt and to look for other alternatives for bike lanes. 
Residents were elated. We felt we now had a Council that respects resident voices. We looked 
forward to the staff findings and report. 
During the December 2025 meeting of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, it was clear 
just a few minutes into the City staff’s presentation about the Humboldt bike lanes that something had 
gone horribly wrong. The data reported was ridiculously inconsistent with what residents, and resident 
bike ride surveys, were reporting. The objections by residents were ignored in staff’s presentation, it 
was as if they did not exist. Those who had been so vocal at every in-person meeting conducted by 
staff were essentially treated as being non-existent. 
Residents, busy with their lives and tired of repeating themselves for almost three years, spoke during 
public comment, but they were far outnumbered by the well-financed special interests who attended 
the meeting. Once again, the residents of North Central, many of whom are economically challenged, 
minorities, elderly and disabled who live in a recognized Equity Priority Neighborhood were treated as 
second-class citizens. The Council directive of “restore parking” was gone. 
305 of 368

--- page 306 ---
2
From this “gone sideways” December 2025 meeting, you are now being presented with a 
recommendation that was not an option in the February 2025 Alternative vote made by Council. 
Whether City staff realizes it or not, their data, reporting, and recommendation has been significantly 
skewed to favor the well-funded special interests and, as in 2022, ignore the voices of residents. Staff 
discarded what was believed to be duplicate returns to their web survey. No more proof that the 
survey was flawed and manipulated is needed, period. It needs to be thrown out. 
The irony of all of this is that these special interest lobbyists wear tee-shirts and hand out posters 
saying, “Safe Streets for All.” Humboldt is a truck thoroughfare. It is no surprise that they are barely 
used. Many resident bikers have spoken up about the dangerous conditions on Humboldt, 
recommending quieter residential side streets where traffic is minimal and safety is higher, with or 
without the green paint on the road. Although Crystal Springs Road is a designated bike route, I see 
numerous bikers riding on my quiet street to avoid the faster traffic on the bike route. This is common 
sense and safety combined, and so easy to make a reality! 
Monday night you, as our City’s leadership body, have a challenge to your legacy. Please consider 
what is right vs. pressure tactics by those who seemly don’t care about the elderly, the disabled, and 
working-class people who are just trying to live their lives, with your vote. 
Will you follow the misguided recommendation of staff, fully aligned with special interests, or 
will you stand firm on the direction given to staff to come up with a plan to fully restore 
parking now and then determine alternative routes for bikes? 
I, like many residents, feel strongly about this. Unfortunately, like many residents, I have a family 
commitment Monday night that will prevent me from attending the meeting in person. Others may be 
starting their second or third jobs. If the attendance numbers of those asking for their street parking to 
be returned don’t match the well-funded special interests, please do not equate that to a lack of 
commitment. We stand strong with residents, as residents. 
Thank you, 
Connie Weiss 
San Mateo Resident 
 
306 of 368

--- page 307 ---
1
From:
Bill Williams 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 1:19 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Humboldt St. bike lanes
Please prioritize the needs of working residents instead of catering to the desires of recreational cyclists. 
x Bill Williams  
307 of 368

--- page 308 ---
1
From:
Kai W 
Sent:
Sunday, February 1, 2026 9:13 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Please keep the Humboldt bike lanes
Dear council members, 
 
My name is Kailun Wu and I’ve been living in Hillsdale for over ten years. I’m a father of two and I bike daily to 
school and errands so the Humboldt bike lane matters deeply to me. 
308 of 368

--- page 309 ---


--- page 310 ---
3
 
(This is how we ride to school everyday on Flores St, which has no bike lane but is thankfully narrow. I have four 
bike lights and a yellow jacket to try to keep us safe.) 
 
Thank you for reading my comment. I’ll keep it short because this issue has probably been exhausting for the staff 
and council. 
 
1. Safety first. No street parking is more important than saving lives. Death is a greater loss. 
 
2. Streets are public and not storage space. Let’s try the parking permit and encourage folks to park in their lots. 
We’ve already dedicated so much land for driving and parking everywhere you look. We are only asking a small 
slice for bike lane. 
 
3. The survey result shows a majority support for Humboldt bike lane as it is. Please speak for us as well as the 
countless neighbors who are either too busy or tired to show up. 
 
4. San Mateo is full (of cars) and desperately needs a car-lite future. More lanes and parking only attract more cars 
and we’ve tried that already. The only way to improve our quality of life is allowing people to live their lives but drive 
less. Combined with mixed-use medium density zoning we can have a 10-min city and live healthier.  
 
Your leadership and vision are greatly appreciated. Tradeoffs can be made in good faith from both sides. I hope we 
could keep the bike lanes on Monday and turn the page. Thank you and have a great week! 
 
Regards, 
Kailun Wu 
310 of 368

--- page 311 ---
1
From:
Joan Young 
Sent:
Friday, January 30, 2026 10:08 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Parking in n central
City council , please return parking to N Central residents . This is so important and as the city builds more and more the 
parking a congesƟon gets worse and worse !!Please listen to us . Thank young Joan Young Sent from my iPhone 
311 of 368

--- page 312 ---
1
From:
Wayne Young 
Sent:
Thursday, January 29, 2026 8:26 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Support Retaining the Humboldt Street Bike Lanes — Consistent with San Mateo 
General Plan 2040 and Bicycle Master Plan
Dear Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
I am writing to respectfully request that the City of San Mateo retain the existing bike lanes on 
Humboldt Street, consistent with the City’s adopted planning priorities — including the General Plan 
2040 and the Bicycle Master Plan. 
San Mateo’s General Plan 2040 establishes a citywide vision for a multimodal transportation system 
that is safe, accessible, equitable, and sustainable. The General Plan explicitly states goals and 
policies to prioritize walking, bicycling, and transit, to reduce reliance on single-occupancy vehicles, 
lower greenhouse gas emissions, and expand transportation choices for all residents regardless of age 
or ability. Policies such as C-1.1 (Sustainable Transportation)and C-1.2 (Complete Streets) emphasize 
designing streets that facilitate safe, comfortable, and efficient travel for people bicycling as a core 
component of the circulation network. In addition, the General Plan includes a specific goal (Goal C-4) 
to build and maintain a safe, connected, and equitable bicycle network that provides access to key 
community destinations like employment centers, transit, schools, and shopping.  
These priorities are mirrored in San Mateo’s Bicycle Master Plan, which identifies the Humboldt Street 
bike lanes as part of an essential connected bike network. The Master Plan was adopted after 
community engagement and data-driven analysis and serves as the official blueprint for bicycle 
infrastructure in the city. It prioritizes improvements that make streets safer and more predictable for 
people choosing to bike.  
Retaining the Humboldt Street bike lanes — rather than removing them — reflects the intent of both 
plans by providing safer infrastructure for everyday trips like commuting, getting to schools, and 
accessing local businesses. The bike lanes help advance multiple adopted City goals: 
 
Safety: Dedicated bike lanes reduce conflicts between people biking and people driving, support 
a Vision Zero approach, and help prevent injuries and fatalities.  
 
Equity & Access: Many North Central residents depend on bicycling and other active modes to 
reach schools, jobs, transit, and services without access to a car. A robust bike network expands 
mobility choices for all income levels and ages.  
 
Sustainability & Climate: Increasing bicycle mode share supports San Mateo’s goals to reduce 
vehicle miles traveled and transportation emissions while improving public health through active 
transportation.  
While concerns about parking and neighborhood needs deserve thoughtful engagement, removing 
infrastructure that aligns with the City’s own long-range planning priorities would undermine years of 
community input and data analysis embedded in the General Plan 2040 and the Bicycle Master Plan. 
312 of 368

--- page 313 ---
2
I encourage you to retain the Humboldt Street bike lanes and pursue targeted refinements — such as 
traffic calming, safety improvements, and parking mitigation where appropriate — that keep San Mateo 
moving toward the goals our community has already formally adopted. 
Thank you for your careful consideration and for your continued service to our city. 
Sincerely, 
Wayne Young 
San Mateo North Central Resident 
313 of 368

--- page 314 ---
1
From:
Yili OD 
Sent:
Thursday, January 29, 2026 8:27 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Please keep the bike lane on Humboldt 
Dear city council members, 
 
Thank you for your dedicaƟon and hard work for our city, San Mateo.  
 
Please make a decision that declares that San Mateo is a city of people, not a city of cars. Your vote will decide the safety 
of people, speciﬁcally students who are biking on Humboldt street. I sincerely urge you to hear the overwhelming voices 
from the schools, the students, the majority of San Mateo residents who support keeping the Humboldt bike lane. I live 
in North Central and the bike lane on Humboldt has been a blessing to me and my family.  
 
Facing the challenges of ﬁnancial needs of many other important projects, 1-2 millions of taxpayers dollars are to be 
spent wisely.  
 
Please support keeping the bike lane on Humboldt street. 
 
Thank you once again! 
 
 
Yili Young 
North central resident  
 
314 of 368

--- page 315 ---
1
From:
Rick Ballard 
>
Sent:
Monday, February 2, 2026 2:57 PM
To:
Clerk; City Council (San Mateo); Nicole Fernandez
Subject:
Comment for Agenda Item 7, Humboldt Bike Lanes Alternative
Dear Mayor and City Councilmembers, 
 
I'm Rick Ballard, a North Central resident. I care deeply about my neighborhood and my neighbors. And 
I'm writing to ask you to keep the Humboldt bike lanes. 
 
I want to focus on two things. 
 
First, the proposed alternatives are dangerous — not because of speed, but because of sightlines. 
On streets like Fremont, a driver pulling out of a driveway cannot see an oncoming cyclist until it's too 
late. I've experienced this; a driver came out of a driveway, couldn't see me, and I missed being hit by 
barely a foot. Speed humps won't fix this. Traffic circles won't fix this. The streets are narrow, driveways 
are everywhere, and the geometry doesn't change. This is the same sightline problem that killed a four-
year-old in Burlingame this year. 
 
If you reroute cyclists — including children biking to school — down these streets, someone will be 
seriously hurt or killed. I don't want that to be this council's legacy. 
 
Second, this is fiscal recklessness. The city is running a budget deficit. You are preparing to ask voters 
for a tax increase. And you are considering spending over a million dollars to rip out recently-installed 
infrastructure and restore parking spaces. It's hard to ask citizens for more money while spending this 
way. 
 
Please keep the Humboldt Street bike lanes. 
 
Thank you, 
Rick Ballard 
North Central San Mateo resident 
 
315 of 368

--- page 316 ---
1
From:
Christine Cook 
Sent:
Monday, February 2, 2026 12:44 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Support for Retaining the Humboldt Street Bike Lanes
Dear Mayor and City Councilmembers, 
I’m a North Central resident and I rely solely on my bike for transportation. I’m writing to urge you to 
retain the Humboldt Street bike lanes. 
As a taxpayer, I’m concerned about the cost and waste involved in removing infrastructure that was 
recently installed with public funds. Reversing course now spends additional money without clear 
evidence of a corresponding public benefit. 
As a resident and cyclist, I’m a constant user of our bike infrastructure, and it’s a rare day when I don’t 
ride on or cross the Humboldt bike lane. I’m one of many. Humboldt street is challenging with both high 
speed and high volume traffic. The Humboldt  bike lanes importantly provides a safer, more predictable 
street for people of all ages who choose to bike, walk, or drive. Removing them would reduce safety and 
accessibility, not improve it. 
I’ve heard concerns raised about parking and older residents. These are important issues, but they 
deserve solutions that don’t come at the expense of safety, sustainability, and long-term livability. Many 
older residents benefit directly from calmer streets, safer crossings, and reduced traffic speeds, 
outcomes that bike lanes help deliver. 
San Mateo has the opportunity to continue moving toward a more walkable, livable city that supports a 
variety of transportation choices. I strongly encourage you to keep the Humboldt Street bike lanes and 
focus on improving, rather than undoing, our existing infrastructure. 
Thank you for your consideration. 
Sincerely, 
Christine Cook  
316 of 368

--- page 317 ---
1
From:
Jean Dail 
Sent:
Monday, February 2, 2026 1:05 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Added / new bike lanes have caused some serious problems
Dear City Council Members, 
 
It seems the good intentions for adding bike lanes has had very bad unintended consequences. The 
community of San Mateo drives. That’s our system of transportation.  Cars need places to park. Then we 
can get out and walk to our destination. 
 
As much as you are advocating for more bike lanes, the aging population of San Mareo is not going to use 
them. When’s the last time you rode a bike?  Vs when was the last time you parked your car? 
 
I had no idea the entire length of Alameda had plans for a bike lane!!!  The traffic back ups this will create 
are going to be horrific! 
 
Please consider ensuring parking spaces at a minimum stay the same in quantity before and after adding 
bike lanes. In addition, if you are going to ADD bike lanes to almost all of Aleameda, you need to ensure 
the traffic volume will not be impeded.  If this cannot be accomplished, you need a different plan. 
Sincerely, Jean Dail 
 
 
317 of 368

--- page 318 ---
Mayor Adam Lorraine and San Mateo Councilmembers, 
 
My name is Natalie Dias and I’m a junior student at San Mateo High School.  
 
I want to express my extreme disappointment that this council is planning to remove the 
Humboldt Street Bike Lanes. Every morning and afternoon, students at my school use the lane to 
get to campus. They use the lane because it is accessible and safe. 
 
A week ago, a pedestrian died while crossing South El Camino Real at 17th, another road that 
leads to my school. This is because cars around my school drive fast and recklessly. With 
amenities like the the Humboldt Bike lane, we are able to protect bikers from bad driverd. If we 
remove the bike lane and continue to prioritze cars over pedestrians and bikes, we are bound to 
see more tragedies.  
 
San Mateo prides itself on being one of the most progressive and sustainable cities, and I’m all 
for that. Our commitment to clean energy, reach code support and youth climate engagement 
programs make me feel proud to live where a clean future for my generation is prioritized. But 
removing the Humboldt Bike lanes is not removing a means of transport, it erodes our 
commitment to sustainability.  
 
I understand that one of the main reasons for the bike lane removal is parking space for residents. 
However, I take the bus down that road every day and almost every house has a two car garage. 
The downside of having less parking space is much smaller than the safety and positive 
reputation that the road instils. 
 
So many youth have shown up today because the removal of the bike lanes affects us directly. 
We want to see sustainability commitments being upheld, and above all we want a safe means of 
transport. 
 
I advocated for this issue back in April last year, and I am advocating for it again. I believe that 
upholding the Humbolt Bike Lanes is how we can build a city for people, and not just cars. 
Istrongly urge the council to reconsider their decision to remove the Humboldt Street Bike 
Lanes. The youth are listening. 
 
 
318 of 368

--- page 319 ---
1
From:
Alexandra Dove 
Sent:
Monday, February 2, 2026 3:41 PM
To:
Clerk; City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Agenda item 7, keep Humboldt bike lanes
Dear City Council, 
 
I am wriƟng today to express my support for keeping the Humboldt Street bike lanes. As a North Central resident for 
several years now, I have appreciated having safe infrastructure that allows my family to get around by bike for daily 
errands and commuƟng. The proposed alternaƟves on Fremont and Idaho would be a signiﬁcant downgrade in safety, 
and I am concerned about the risks this would pose to cyclists, especially children traveling to school. 
 
I strongly encourage the council to keep the exisƟng bike lanes in place. 
 
Thank you, 
 
Alexandra Dove 
North-Central San Mateo 
 
Sent from my iPhone 
319 of 368

--- page 320 ---
OO

From: Andrew Reback

Sent: Monday, February 2, 2026 11:53 AM

To: Lisa Diaz Nash; Nicole Fernandez

Ce: Clerk; City Council (San Mateo); Andrew Reback
Subject: Bike lanes and resident safety

Dear Council,

We’ve had multiple pedestrian deaths within a few miles of my house in just the last few months. That’s a
signal our street system is not safe enough. When people are being killed, the response should be to
strengthen safety measures, not remove them.

Bike lanes are not just for cyclists. They slow vehicle speeds, make movement more predictable, and
shorten crossing distances for pedestrians. Speed is the biggest factor in whether someone Survives a
crash.

This is bigger than Humboldt. San Mateo is growing, and our streets have to work for kids walking to
school, older adults crossing the street, and people biking or using mobility devices. Design matters
more than enforcement. When roads feel wide and fast, drivers go fast. When streets are designed to be
calmer, people survive.

Many cities around us, including Burlingame, are moving toward MORE experimentation and people-
focused street designs. That reflects where urban safety practice is headed. San Mateo should be
moving forward with that progress, and NOT stepping backward.

Removing a bike lane after tragedies moves us in the wrong direction. Please keep the Humboldt bike
lane and continue prioritizing street designs that protect human life first.

Thank you,

Andrew Reback (Alice Cathcart, Elliott Reback, Beatrice Reback)

D1/North Central

320 of 368


--- page 321 ---
1
From:
Michael 
Sent:
Monday, February 2, 2026 3:10 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk; 
 David Light; Killough, Maurine; Francie Souza
Subject:
2/2/26 Humboldt Bike Lane Relocation
Mayor Loraine and Councilmembers - You're going to hear a lot of noise tonight, and no doubt have 
already received tons of AI generated emails, form letters, and communications of all sorts decrying the 
outrageous removal of the bike lanes on Humboldt. Many of these will be from people who do not live on 
Humboldt, in North Central, the surrounding neighborhoods, San Mateo, or even the Bay Area or state. 
Your job is to separate the signal from this noise. 
 
Most if not all of you would say you like to be "data-driven". Let's focus on that, because the data 
illustrates several things: these lanes are simply not used. We have camera data, data from another 
citizen who put out cameras, and personally I drive that corridor up to 4x a day between here and 
Burlingame High School with my son, and my observations corroborate that complete lack of usage. 
There are usually literally zero bikes - commute hours, school hours, beautiful weather, weekdays, 
weekends - doesn't matter. Secondly, the removal of parking has negatively impacted an equity priority 
neighborhood with seniors, and workers that rely on vehicles to make a living. Finally, the lanes have 
been in place for over 2 years, and there is no data to suggest it has made anything safer - there has been 
no decrease (or increase) in collisions. That makes sense because if you have zero usage, you will also 
have zero collisions. 
 
In a nutshell - the suffering being endured by the residents of North Central on this corridor is being 
inflicted for no good reason. None. 
 
It's worth noting as well that no one is removing lanes - they city will simply relocate them to better 
places. Also worth noting these lanes were rushed to be installed without proper neighborhood 
notification and meetings that would have avoided this disaster in the first place. So this is really righting 
a wrong that should never have occured. 
 
As an avid cyclist with 10s of thousands of miles ridden everywhere imaginable - big cities, small cities, 
on road, off road, foreign countries - I can tell you we don't generally care about bike lines. Even when I 
bike with my wife and kids, we find side streets and go the most expeditiious yet safe routes. I only bike 
ECR when absolutely necessary, and I avoid Delaware. For the same reason, Humboldt is sub-optimal as 
a truck route and main thoroughfare. We also don't mind going a little further for a nicer, quieter ride - it's 
easy on a bike. 
 
Also as a cyclist I'm embarrassed by the bike zealots and their antics. They do not represent me nor do I 
believe they represent the majority of cyclists. Again, many of these people don't live in the affected area, 
much less San Mateo, and I promise you they do not really use these lanes, since nobody really does. It's 
also sad to see the "Safe Streets Everywhere" (funded by the same large bike coalition SVBC) being 
weaponized as a means to justify the theft of parking from these residents under the guise of safety (who 
are these phantom riders being kept safe?), rather than representing the actual residents of San Mateo. 
Don’t reward the tantrums of this handful of zealots with your support. 
321 of 368

--- page 322 ---
2
 
The net impact of optimizing and relocating these lanes on bikers is zero. The net impact of optimizing 
and relocating these lanes on safety is zero. The net impact on the residents who had their parking 
unfairly removed from them is immeasurably positive. This should not be a remotely difficult decision. 
 
So, you find yourself in the difficult position of being villainized by outsiders, oftentimes with highly 
specious information propogated by opportunistic zealots and activists. I ask you to be courageous and 
do what's right tonight and immediately restore all parking ("immediate" is doing a lot of work here since 
they've been waiting 2+ years), and relocate these lanes to a much better location. 
 
The best way to combat special interest meddling is to not bow to them. Trust that we, the residents who 
truly understand what's going on here, will have your back and ensure that the voters in San Mateo are 
getting the right message. 
 
Sincerely,  Michael Weinhauer, Central Neighborhood 
322 of 368

--- page 323 ---
Humboldt Bike lanes 
Alternative 
City Council 
February 2, 2026
Public Works Department
Jay Yu P.E., Engineering Manager
1 of 45
323 of 368

--- page 324 ---
I.  Background 
II. Phase II Engagement 
III. Final Fremont and Idaho Street 
Alternative and Streetlight Upgrade
IV. Other Considerations
V. Potential Alternatives 
VI. Next Steps
2 of 45
AGENDA
324 of 368

--- page 325 ---
Feedback Needed from City Council 
Staff is seeking direction from the City Council on 
how to proceed with the Humboldt Bike Lanes 
Alternative project
3 of 45
325 of 368

--- page 326 ---
|. BACKGROUND

“ALOR


--- page 327 ---
2020 Bicycle Master Plan
5 of 45
2020 Bicycle Master 
Plan
(Adopted April 2020)
List of 100+ 
Priority Projects
•
Vision
•
Forward facing
•
Future Bicycle Infrastructure in 
San Mateo 
Criteria
•
Connectivity
•
Safety & Comfort
•
Equity
•
Ridership
Humboldt Bike Lanes 
#2 Ranked High 
Priority Project
327 of 368

--- page 328 ---
Project History 
April 2020
Citywide 
Bicycle 
Master Plan
Adoption 
(#2 High Priority Project) 
Nov 2021
Start of Construction
(NTP)
Feb 2022 
City Council 
voted to Install 
Bike Lanes
12/4/24
NC 
Community 
Meeting 
Seeking 
Input
Jan –  July 2021
Design/Outreach
July 2022
Construction 
Completion 
2/3/25
Meeting with 
City Council 
Seek 
Direction on 
Community 
Feedback
March 2023
North Central Complete 
Streets Plan (NCCSP) 
Scoping
May 2023
NCCSP Budget 
Appropriation
6/17/24
City Council 
Directed Staff to 
Reengage with 
Community 
6 of 45
Phase I
May 2021
Adoption of 
FY 21-22 AAP
July 2020
Adoption of 
FY 20-21 AAP
328 of 368

--- page 329 ---
2/3/2025 – City Council Meeting Direction
Alt 1
❑
Cost: $0
❑
Schedule: 
N/A
Alt 4
Restoration of Parking and 
Bike Lane Removal
❑
Cost: ~$850,000
❑
Schedule: 6m– 1yr
Alt 2
Restoration of Parking and 
Bike Lane Removal 
❑
Cost: ~$850,000
❑
Schedule: 6m– 1yr
Bike Boulevard (Design & 
CON)
❑
Cost: ~2.2M
❑
Schedule: 1 – 3yr
Alt 3
Restoration of Parking & 
Bike Lane Removal 
❑
Cost: ~$620,000
❑
Schedule: 6m – 1yr
Parallel Pilot Bike Boulevard
❑
Cost: ~$150K – $300K
❑
Schedule: 6m – 1yr 
(inc. community engagement)
Alt 5 
Streetlight Cost
❑
Humboldt Street: 
~$45,000
❑
Fremont Street: 
~$25,000
❑
Idaho Street:
~$20,000
Est. Total: ~$3M 
Est. Total: ~$920K 
Est. Total: ~$1M 
Est. Total: ~$850k
Est. Total: ~$70k
Long-Term Plan (Include in NCCSP)
❑
Connectivity Study: ~$60K
❑
Greater NC Bike Boulevards: ~$1M
❑
Schedule 1-3yr
Keep As-Is
Humboldt 
Bike Blvd.
Partial Removal,
Pilot Bike Blvd.
Full Bike 
Lane Removal
Streetlighting
Upgrade
Est. Total: ~$0 
7 of 37
329 of 368

--- page 330 ---
2/3/2025 City Council Meeting Direction
8 of 45
Fiesta 
Gardens
Elem.
330 of 368

--- page 331 ---
Il. Phase 2 — Engagement



--- page 332 ---
February 2, 
2026
June 18
October 27
I. DIRECTION
ALT 3 - Explore a bike 
boulevard at Fremont 
street and Idaho 
Street.
ALT 5 - Pursue 
lighting upgrades 
February 
2025
II. 
Engagement 
and Concept 
Design
II.
Engagement 
and Concept 
Design
III.
City Council 
Update + 
Funding 
Appropriation
IV.
Implementation 
(If provided 
direction)
Here Now
Phase II - Schedule
Phase II Schedule
Community 
Workshop #1
Intro and initial 
feedback
City Council
Receive feedback 
and provide 
direction
Community 
Workshop #3
Final Concept 
Design
August 25
Community 
Workshop #2
Concept design 
10 of 45
December 10, 
2025
Sustainability and 
Infrastructure 
Commission
Provide a 
recommendation to CC
 
Here Now
332 of 368

--- page 333 ---
Engagement Figures 
11 of 45
35,000+ Mailers
140+ A-Frames
1,000+ Flyers
Door-To-Door 
Canvassing
Continuous 
Social Media 
Promotion
Community Partners
50,000+ 
Engagements
Accommodations
In-Person and Virtual 
Childcare, food and 
refreshments
English, Spanish and 
Chinese
Live Interpretations in 
Spanish and Chinese
Accessible local venues
Distribution
333 of 368

--- page 334 ---
Workshop No. 1 – Initial Feedback - Summary 
12 of 45
Attendance: 60
Goal: Receive initial feedback on usage and impacts 
from the bike lane installation on Humboldt Street
Survey Response: 213 (In-Person + Online)
Summary of Feedback
❑Removal of parking has worsened the 
parking supply in North Central
❑Streetlight improvements are welcomed
❑Community survey showed vehicle usage 
on Humboldt Street is the predominate 
mode
❑Lower vehicle speeds is well supported
❑Idaho Street and Fremont Street are 
narrow 
❑Discussions of other streets for bicycle 
facilities
334 of 368

--- page 335 ---
Workshop No. 2 – Draft Concept Designs - Summary 
13 of 45
Attendance: 45+
Goal: Receiving feedback on the draft concept designs 
for both Idaho Street and Fremont Street Alternatives
Survey Response: 70 (In-Person + Online)
Summary of Feedback
❑Speed humps over rumble strips
❑Traffic circles were well received where 
curb extension were not
❑Skepticism remained about whether 
improvements would lower speeds from 
25mph to 15-18mph 
❑New stop sign installations were well 
received
❑Support slowing speeds on Fremont and 
Idaho, but not at the expense of 
removing bike lanes on Humboldt Street
335 of 368

--- page 336 ---
Workshop No. 3 – Final Concept Designs - Summary 
14 of 45
Attendance: 50+
Goal: Receiving feedback on Final Design and 
understanding how the community prioritize where 
the Humboldt bike lanes should be
Survey Response: 400+ (In-Person + Online+Mailers)
Summary of Feedback
❑Driveway visibility concerns for both 
Fremont Street and Idaho Street 
alternatives
❑Final alternatives were consistent with 
the feedback through the workshops
❑Appreciate the speed calming measures 
for both alternatives, but still view the 
alternatives as a downgrade from the 
existing Class II on Humboldt Street
336 of 368

--- page 337 ---
1) Do you support a bike boulevard on Idaho Street between 2nd Avenue to Indian Avenue?
This also results in the key changes below:
Key Changes
‘Will NOT remove parking on Idaho Street (except as required by State daylighting law)
‘Restores approximately 100 parking spaces on Humboldt Street from 2" to Indian Avenue
‘Removes existing Humboldt Bike Lanes from 2°? Avenue to Indian Avenue
‘Includes traffic calming measures to reduce vehicle speeds on Idaho Street

Yes Cc No Cc Idaho Concept Design => on

2) Do you support a bike boulevard on Fremont Street from 2nd Avenue to Indian Avenue?
This also results in the key changes below:
Key Changes
‘Will NOT remove parking on Fremont Street (except as required by State daylighting law)
‘Restores approximately 100 parking spaces on Humboldt Street from 2" to Indian Avenue
‘Removes existing Humboldt Bike Lanes from 2° Avenue to Indian Avenue
‘Includes traffic calming measures to reduce vehicle speeds on Fremont Street

Yes [| No[_ | Fremont Concept Design —> rf

3) Do you support keeping the bike lanes on Humboldt Street between 2nd Avenue and
Indian Avenue, as is, Knowing approximately 100 parking spaces won't be restored?

Yes [ ] No|_|

) Please rank the alternatives below from most preferred (1) to least preferred (3).
Bike boulevard on Bike boulevard on Keep existing bike lanes
Idaho Street. Fremont Street. on Humboldt Street.

FOUR QUESTION SURVEY



--- page 338 ---
Workshop No. 3 – In-Person Survey Results
16 of 45
52
43
4
3
20
9
44
36
2
4
20
8
78
65
6
5
28
13
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
All Results
All NC
Humboldt
Idaho
Fremont
Other Communities
Idaho Street
Fremont Street
Keep on Humboldt
In-Person Survey Results
Priority Ranking Summary*
(40 Total Surveys)
*Weighted Ranking Method
Each vote is assigned between 1 to 3 points
 1st Choice = 3 points 
2nd Choice = 2 points 
3rd Choice = 1 point
Example: 10 votes for 1st Choice
 10 Votes x 3 points = 30 points
338 of 368

--- page 339 ---
Workshop No. 3 – Online Survey Results
17 of 45
415
183
75
18
22
232
347
169
57
17
26
178
552
242
102
19
30
310
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
All Results
All NC
Humboldt
Idaho
Fremont
Other Communities
Idaho Street
Fremont Street
Keep on Humboldt
Online Survey Results
Priority Ranking Summary*
(219 Total Surveys)
*Weighted Ranking Method
Each vote is assigned between 1 to 3 points
 1st Choice = 3 points 
2nd Choice = 2 points 
3rd Choice = 1 point
Example: 10 votes for 1st Choice
 10 Votes x 3 points = 30 points
339 of 368

--- page 340 ---
Workshop No. 3 – Online Survey Results (including duplicate IP)
18 of 45
478
218
98
20
40
260
414
208
73
21
41
206
662
306
141
25
63
356
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
All Results
All NC
Humboldt
Idaho
Fremont
Other Communities
Idaho Street
Fremont Street
Keep on Humboldt
Online Survey Results
Priority Ranking Summary*
(284 Total Surveys)
*Weighted Ranking Method
Each vote is assigned between 1 to 3 points
 1st Choice = 3 points 
2nd Choice = 2 points 
3rd Choice = 1 point
Example: 10 votes for 1st Choice
 10 Votes x 3 points = 30 points
INCLUDING DUPLICATE IP 
ADDRESSES
340 of 368

--- page 341 ---
Workshop No. 3 – Mailer Survey Results
19 of 45
176
51
14
30
179
59
27
19
197
58
25
35
0
50
100
150
200
250
All NC Residents
Humboldt Residents
Idaho Residents
Fremont Residents
Idaho Street
Fremont Street
Keep on Humboldt
Mailed Survey Results
Priority Ranking Summary*
(150 Total Surveys)
*Weighted Ranking Method
Each vote is assigned between 1 to 3 points
 1st Choice = 3 points 
2nd Choice = 2 points 
3rd Choice = 1 point
Example: 10 votes for 1st Choice
 10 Votes x 3 points = 30 points
341 of 368

--- page 342 ---
Pedestrian Scale Lighting
Overall
North 
Central 
Residents
Cobrahead Roadway Lighting
27%
63%
10%
0%
50%
100%
Existing
High
No
Preference
25%
64%
11%
0%
50%
100%
Existing
High
No
Preference
16%
28%
46%
10%
0%
20%
40%
60%
Existing
Medium
High
No
Preference
16%
29%
46%
9%
0%
20%
40%
60%
Existing
Medium
High
No
Preference
North Central Streetlighting Pilot - Results 
20 of 45
342 of 368

--- page 343 ---
School Feedback
San Mateo-Foster City School District Board 
unanimously adopted a resolution strongly 
supporting retention of the existing Class II 
bike lanes on Humboldt Street
January 23, 2025
San Mateo-Foster City 
School District Board
San Mateo High School 
and Fiesta Gardens 
International School 
Faculty
•
Acknowledge the parking loss caused by 
the Humboldt Bike lanes 
•
Supportive of speed calming measures, 
specifically on Indian Avenue
•
Safety is very important  
21 of 45
343 of 368

--- page 344 ---
Phase II  Engagement Summary 
22 of 45
Streetlighting upgrades to 
increase existing lighting 
levels are well supported
The community is 
supportive for measures 
to slow speeds and 
volumes in neighborhood 
streets, but not at the 
trade-off of removing 
parking or existing bicycle 
infrastructure
The final survey showed that 
all three survey formats 
preferred to keep the bike 
lanes on Humboldt Street 
(400+ surveys received)
Mailed survey responses 
indicated residents living on 
Humboldt and Idaho Street 
preferred the Fremont Street 
Bike Boulevard Alternative over 
retaining the Humboldt Street 
bike lanes
Parking availability remains a 
problem for the North Central 
community-specifically for 
residents on Humboldt Street, 
where parking spaces were 
removed for the installation 
of the bike lanes
344 of 368

--- page 345 ---
III. FINAL FREMONT AND IDAHO 
STREET ALTERNATIVES AND 
STREETLIGHT UPGRADE
23 of 45
345 of 368

--- page 346 ---
No Parking Removal
Safer Streets
Reduce Speed
Project Goals
Bike Boulevard will 
NOT remove parking 
(outside of AB413 Daylighting Law)
24 of 45
346 of 368

--- page 347 ---
Peak Bike Usage – Trips On N. Humboldt Corridor
41
21
59
63
68
60
31
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Peninsula Avenue E. Poplar Avenue
Indian Avenue
Monte Diablo
Tilton Avenue
2nd Avenue
3rd Avenue
AM PEAK: 7:00AM – 9:00AM
PM PEAK: 4:00PM – 6:00PM
WEEKDAY ONLY
DOES NOT INCLUDE SIDEWALK BICYCLISTS
# of Bicycles Trips
Intersections on Humboldt Street
56%
44%
Humboldt 
X-Traffic
Corridor Total: 68% Humboldt / 32% X-Traffic
25 of 45
10%
90%
25%
75%
46%
54%
26%
74%
32%
68%
16%
84%
347 of 368

--- page 348 ---
Peak Bike Usage – Trips On Idaho and Fremont Street
11
63
32
18
21
67
47
91
13
0
20
40
60
80
100
Indian Avenue
Monte Diablo
Tilton Avenue
2nd Avenue
3rd Avenue
AM PEAK: 7:00AM – 9:00AM
PM PEAK: 4:00PM – 6:00PM
WEEKDAY ONLY
DOES NOT INCLUDE SIDEWALK BICYCLISTS
# of Bicycles Trips
Idaho/Fremont
X-Traffic
Corridor Total: 37% Fremont Street / 63% X-Traffic
26 of 45
65%
35%
46%
54%
87%
13%
64%
36%
71%
29%
67%
33%
45%
55%
34%
66%
66%
34%
Corridor Total: 43% Idaho Street / 57% X-Traffic
Fremont Street
Idaho Street
348 of 368

--- page 349 ---
Potential Idaho Street Alternative Overview
Traffic Circle
Speed Humps
High-Visibility Crosswalks
Painted Curb Extensions
Centerline Hardening
Stop Signs
Idaho Street Bike Boulevard Alternative
Existing Humboldt Class II Bike Lanes
Idaho Street Bike Boulevard Alternative
27 of 45
349 of 368

--- page 350 ---
Potential Idaho Street Alternative - Summary
Existing
Target
Projected
Speed
23-25mph
20mph
18mph
Volume
130vph
150vph
31-150vph
Summary of Improvements
• 2 x Traffic Circle
• 8 x Stop Sign Installations
• 21 x Speed Hump 
• 24 x High Visibility Crosswalks
Expected Performance Metrics
Estimated Cost: $1.37M 
This cost includes restoration of Humboldt Street from 
Indian Avenue to 2nd Avenue to
before bike lanes were installed, the design work needed 
to bring the 15% concept designs to construction, 
construction and inspection services and a contingency.
Idaho Street Alternative
28 of 45
350 of 368

--- page 351 ---
Potential Fremont Street Alternative Overview
Slow Streets Signage
Speed Humps
High-Visibility Crosswalks
Painted Curb Extensions
Centerline Hardening
Stop Signs
Fremont Street Bike Boulevard Alternative
Existing Humboldt Class II Bike Lanes
Idaho Street Bike Boulevard Alternative
29 of 45
351 of 368

--- page 352 ---
Potential Fremont Street Alternative – Summary
Existing
Target
Projected
Speed
23-26mph
20mph
15-18mph
Volume
111-201vph
150vph
50-141vph
Summary of Improvements
• 3 x Intersection Curb Extensions
• 11 x Stop Sign Installations
• 10 x Speed Hump 
• 27 x High Visibility Crosswalks
Expected Performance Metrics
Estimated Cost: $1.32M 
This cost includes restoration of Humboldt Street from 
Indian Avenue to 2nd Avenue to
before bike lanes were installed, the design work needed 
to bring the 15% concept designs to construction, 
construction and inspection services and a contingency.
Fremont Street Alternative
30 of 45
352 of 368

--- page 353 ---
Streetlighting Upgrade - Estimated Cost
Streetlighting Upgrade Estimated Cost
Symbol
Street
Limits
Estimated 
Cost
Idaho Street
2nd Ave. – Indian Ave.
$40,500
Humboldt Street
Peninsula Ave. – 5th Ave.
$94,000
Fremont Street
2nd Ave. – Indian Ave.
$47,500
A
B
C
A
B
C
31 of 45
353 of 368

--- page 354 ---
IV. OTHER CONSIDERATIONS



--- page 355 ---
Residential Parking Permit Program (RPPP) 
The current policy requires 
50% Response rate with a 67% 
support required to implement 
a new permit area
33 of 45
Permit Program 
Boundaries
Large 
Commercial 
Vehicles 
Community 
Support
Current policy does not allow 
large commercial vehicles to 
obtain a permit. Phase II 
indicates there are commercial 
vehicles in North Central
North Central has over 
4,500 households. 
Focused permit program 
or wider community?
355 of 368

--- page 356 ---
North Central Private Site Parking Leases
34 of 45
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
Property ID
Property Name
A
San Mateo High School
B
San Mateo High School 
District Offices
C
Fiesta Gardens International 
School
D
Sturge Presbyterian Church
E
Community Baptist Church
F
State of California 
Administrative Office of the 
Courts
G
Army National Guard Office
H
Department of Motor 
Vehicles (DMV)
I
MLK Center
H
I
Not Interested
 
Maybe
 
Active Overnight Parking 
Limits of Humboldt CC directed staff 
to explore restoration of parking
356 of 368

--- page 357 ---
Indian 
Ave.
Santa 
Inez Ave.
Tilton 
Ave.
Poplar 
Ave.
Other Humboldt Corridor Improvements
Poplar/Humboldt 
Intersection Safety Project
•
Protected Left Turns
•
Intersection lighting 
upgrades
Completed: Fall 2025
Cost: $1M 
Local Roadway Safety Priority Package 1
•
Signage Upgrades
•
Improved intersection sight distance
•
Raised crosswalks (one leg on Humboldt)
•
Consider lighting improvements
•
Improved pedestrian crossings with enhanced 
safety features
•
Explore curb extensions
•
Consider an all-way STOP 
Design: Starting Early 2026
Cost: $1M (Federally Funded)
Raised Crosswalks
Existing
Projected
Speed
24 – 30mph
22-26mph
Volume
432-488vph
Same
Expected Performance Metrics
Humboldt Street
Funded Active Projects
Potential Speed Calming 
Improvements
Humboldt Street
Completed Projects
35 of 45
357 of 368

--- page 358 ---
36 of 45
Original Humboldt Bike Lanes Funding Questions
Were the original Humboldt 
Bike Lanes an approved 
improvement eligible for (or 
funded by) CDBG funding?
What are the implications if 
we remove bike lanes 
originally funded with CDBG 
funds?
358 of 368

--- page 359 ---
V. POTENTIAL ALTERNATIVES



--- page 360 ---
38 of 45
Alternative 1 
Keep As-Is
Alternative 2 
Keep As-Is with 
Additional 
Humboldt Street Calming 
Measures 
+ 
Streetlighting Upgrades 
+ 
Explore Permit Parking 
Program
Alternative 3
Idaho Street 
Bike Boulevard 
+ 
Streetlighting 
Upgrades
Alternative 4
Fremont Street 
Bike Boulevard 
+ 
Streetlighting 
Upgrades
Potential Alternatives - Overview
360 of 368

--- page 361 ---
Potential Alternatives – 1 and 2
Alternative 
Summary
Estimated 
Cost: 
Alternative 1 
Keep As-Is
• Existing Facility: Keep existing Class II bicycle facility on Humboldt street
• Parking on Humboldt Street: Parking on Humboldt Street from 2nd Avenue to 
Indian Avenue will not be restored
$0
Alternative 2 
Keep As-Is with Additional 
Humboldt Street Calming 
Measures + Streetlighting 
Upgrades + 
Explore Permit Parking Program
• Existing Facility: Keep existing Class II bicycle facility on Humboldt street
• Parking on Humboldt Street: Parking on Humboldt Street from 2nd Avenue to 
Indian Avenue will not be restored
• Streetlighting: Streetlighting on Humboldt Street from Peninsula Avenue to 5th 
Avenue will be upgraded to a brighter fixture
• Other 
• Staff will explore a tailored permit parking program for North Central to 
address the Humboldt bike lanes impacts
• Two (2) raised crosswalks will be installed north of Poplar Avenue on 
Humboldt Street to slow speeds on Humboldt Street
$295,000
39 of 45
361 of 368

--- page 362 ---
Potential Alternatives – 3 and 4
Alternative 
Summary
Estimated 
Cost: 
Alternative 3
Idaho Street Bike Boulevard 
+ 
Streetlighting Upgrades
• Existing Facility: Remove keep existing Class II bicycle facility on Humboldt street 
(Indian Ave. to 2nd Ave.)
• New Facility: Install a new bicycle boulevard on Idaho Street from 2nd avenue to 
Indian Avenue per the final Idaho Street Alternative
• Parking on Humboldt Street: Parking on Humboldt Street from 2nd Avenue to 
Indian Avenue will be restored (approximately 100 parking spaces)
• Streetlighting: Streetlighting will be upgraded for Idaho Street per the limits of 
the bicycle boulevard and on Humboldt Street from Peninsula Ave. to 5th Ave.
• HUD CDBG Funding: Will need to repay HUD for removed bicycle facilities 
$1.773M
Alternative 4
Fremont Street Bike Boulevard 
+ 
Streetlighting Upgrades
• Existing Facility: Remove keep existing Class II bicycle facility on Humboldt street 
(Indian Ave. to 2nd Ave.)
• New Facility: Install a new bicycle boulevard on Fremont Street from 2nd avenue 
to Indian Avenue per the final Fremont Street Alternative
• Parking on Humboldt Street: Parking on Humboldt Street from 2nd Avenue to 
Indian Avenue will be restored (approximately 100 parking spaces)
• Streetlighting: Streetlighting will be upgraded for Idaho Street per the limits of 
the bicycle boulevard and on Humboldt Street from Peninsula Ave. to 5th Ave.
• HUD CDBG Funding: Will need to repay HUD for removed bicycle facilities 
$1.733M
40 of 45
362 of 368

--- page 363 ---
Streetlighting Upgrade - Estimated Cost
Streetlighting Upgrade Estimated Cost
Symbol
Street
Limits
Estimated 
Cost
Idaho Street
2nd Ave. – Indian Ave.
$40,500
Humboldt Street
Peninsula Ave. – 5th Ave.
$94,000
Fremont Street
2nd Ave. – Indian Ave.
$47,500
A
B
C
A
B
C
41 of 45
363 of 368

--- page 364 ---
42 of 45
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Feedback
12/10/25 Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission Recommendation 
•
Commissioners voted 5-0 for Alternative No. 2
Summary of Meeting
•
Received over 30 public comments for the item
•
Public feedback varied:
•
Support for retaining bike lanes on 
Humboldt to prioritize safety
•
Calls to remove bike lanes and restore 
parking, without providing an alternative 
bicycle connection
•
Commissioners advocated for:
•
Improved streetlighting 
•
Additional parking relief for the NC 
Community 
364 of 368

--- page 365 ---
Feedback Needed from City Council 
43 of 45
Staff is seeking direction from the City Council on 
how to proceed with the Humboldt Bike Lanes 
Alternative project
365 of 368

--- page 366 ---
Ve NEAT Sige

t

b
%

$



--- page 367 ---
February 2, 
2026
June 18
October 27
II. 
Engagement 
and Concept 
Design
Next Step 
Phase II Schedule
Community 
Workshop #1
Intro and initial 
feedback
City Council
Receive feedback 
and provide 
direction
Community 
Workshop #3
Final Concept 
Design
August 25
Community 
Workshop #2
Concept design 
45 of 45
December 10, 
2025
Sustainability 
and 
Infrastructure 
Commission
Receive feedback
 
Here Now
City Council Funding 
Appropriation
Staff will come back to 
City Council on the 
recommendation to 
appropriate funding
Implementation of 
Selected Alternative
Staff will implement the 
selected alternative
367 of 368

--- page 368 ---
Thank You
Jay Yu P.E., Engineering Manager
Public Works
publicworks@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7300
46 of 45
368 of 368