source: packet.pdf
sha256: 0876128fb5aa7319bdae578c05c652e9ef5fc5cb2d3b6edfa09da5801c5916bb
pages: 3
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting
May 3, 2021
6:00 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: May 3, 2021 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 894 0049 7596
Passcode: 448759
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
1.
Solid Waste Rate Restructure
Receive information and provide feedback on potential solid waste rates and restructuring for 2022.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's website
at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this meeting may
contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable
arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
1 of 3

--- page 2 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 21-4377
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
May 3, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Solid Waste Rate Restructure
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive information and provide feedback on potential solid waste rates and restructuring for 2022.
BACKGROUND:
City Council sets the rates to be charged by the City’s franchise hauler for solid waste, recycling, and compost collection 
annually.  The total cost of the solid waste program includes those for collection services provided by Recology San Mateo 
County (Recology), processing and disposal services provided by the South Bayside Waste Management Authority 
(SBWMA), and City fees that support the City’s sustainability goals and efforts to meet all regulatory compliance mandates.  
The customer rates are adjusted as required to generate enough revenue to cover the cost of the provided services.
In 2006, the average monthly resident rate was $24.38 for approximately 64 gallons of garbage collection a week. That 
year, Council established a progressive rate structure for the City’s solid waste collection and disposal that was directly 
correlated to the amount of waste generated (i.e., the more waste generated, the greater the per-gallon cost).  The goal of 
the progressive rate structure was to comply with AB 939, which required 50 percent of all solid waste be diverted from 
landfills by January 1, 2000.  To encourage waste diversion, biweekly collection services for recycling and green waste were 
offered to residents at no additional charge; weekly recycling services were offered to the commercial sector at no 
additional charge; and green waste collection was offered to the commercial sector at a rate of 25 percent less than the 
cost of garbage service. 
The City has been compliant with AB 939 and all state solid waste mandates.  Due to the success of the enhanced recycling 
and compost programs, residential rate payers have migrated to smaller solid waste collection containers, reducing their 
monthly cost. Eighty percent of our residents now have a 32-or 20-gallon garbage can.  However, the rate structure has 
resulted in the single-family residential and roll-off rates not covering their cost of service, while commercial and multi-
family rates do cover their cost of service.  The average cost to service a single-family home, excluding disposal costs, is 
between $40 and $50 per month.  The City’s monthly rate for a 20-gallon can is $15.59 and for a 32-gallon cart is $24.93.  
Staff contracted with HF&H LLC (HF&H) to develop a five-year plan for a solid waste rate structure that provides funding 
for collection, disposal, and processing of the City’s Solid Waste enterprise programs, which include regulatory mandates 
and compliance and maintaining reserves based on appropriate balances.  HF&H specialize in calculating and establishing 
solid waste rate structure recommendations and provide similar services to the SBWMA, other SBWMA member agencies, 
and throughout California.
2 of 3

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
HF&H evaluated the appropriate revenue requirement for each customer class (e.g., single-family residential, commercial) 
to determine whether the current rate structure aligns with the cost-of-service for each customer class and service levels 
(e.g., 20-gallon service, 32-gallon service), within each class.  This evaluation had two goals: (1) ensuring the customer 
classes are financially self-sufficient and (2) ensuring each customer within the class pays for the services they receive. The 
City’s Rate Stabilization Fund was included in HF&H’s evaluation. The fund was created to use in time of need to offset rate 
increases. The current projected Solid Waste Fund 21 balance is $9.7M and a reasonable minimum reserve balance needs 
to be determined. HF&H recommends a $3.4M minimum reserve balance based on a minimum reserve target of 1.5 
months of the annual operating costs. If there is no rate increase over the next five years, the reserves will be depleted.
Strategies to be discussed include (1) overall re-alignment of revenues from each customer class to their cost-of-services 
over the next five years, (2) no increase for commercial metal bin rates, and (3) increasing compactor rates by the 
percentage of change in the revenue requirement. 
In the study session, staff will review their findings, present strategies for aligning revenues from each customer class to 
cover their cost-of-services, and request Council feedback regarding target reserves and rate adjustment strategies.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no impact to the budget at this time.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This study session for solid waste rate restructure is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity 
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact 
on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Roxanne Murray, Solid Waste and Recycle Program Coordinator
rmurray@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7346
3 of 3