source: packet.pdf
sha256: 113dd2b0b9317b8e25ec039bd7357e0c524cc09b6fd794963adb08083690cb7f
pages: 24
ocr_pages: 3
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commission
March 9, 2022
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Adam Loraine, Chair
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair
Clifford Robbins
Rafael Reyes
Susan Rowinski
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNMENT CODE 54943(b)(3) / AB 361 (2021) –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: March 9, 2022
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 894 1140 5984
Passcode: 960651
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure regular meeting of February 9, 2022.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to Speak"
form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be referred to
staff for further review.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
Stormwater Funding - Survey Findings
Receive an update on the Stormwater Funding Survey findings and tentative staff recommendations for
implementation of a Stormwater Fee; and provide related input.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website by the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
1 of 24

--- page 2 ---
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Commission meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. To indicate you want
to provide public comment, when the item of interest is open for consideration, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon press * 6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact Public Works Office at (650) 522-7300 or kaplan@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 24

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
File ID: 22-5852
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
March 09, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure regular meeting of February 9, 2022.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes of the February 9, 2022 meeting
3 of 24

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission  
February 9, 2022 
7:00 PM 
 
Remote Meeting 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS  
Adam Loraine, Chair  
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair 
Clifford Robbins 
Rafael Reyes 
Susan Rowinski 
MINUTES 
CALL TO ORDER - This meeting was held pursuant to authorization from Government Code 54943(b)(3) / 
AB361 (2021) in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to participate virtually due to the 
Covid-19 health emergency. 
 
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call 
 
Remote:  Chair Loraine, Commissioners Robbins, Narita, Reyes and Rowinski.   
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
  
1. Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes - Approval  
 
Motion to approve the minutes of January 12, 2022 Motion passed 5-0 
 
Moved:    Robbins, Seconded:  Rowinski 
Ayes:       5 - Robbins, Narita, Rowinski, Reyes, and Loraine 
Noes:       None 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Bry Myers asked the Commission to support the Safe Routes to School initiatives. 
 
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a “Request to Speak” 
form.  State law prevents the commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda.  Your comments may be referred to staff 
for further review. 
 
OLD BUSINESS  
 
2. North Central Bike Lanes Project - Update 
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner, provided a presentation to the Commission, acting as the 
City of San Mateo’s Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Committee, on progress to date for  the North Central Bike 
Lanes Project and requested feedback to staff.  Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works, was also available to 
answer questions. 
Commissioners asked questions of staff. 
 
Public Comment.   The following spoke to the item:  Claire Stephens, Doug Handerson, Mariana Tiwari, Carol 
Steinfeld, Carolina Nugent, David Hunt, Heather Wolnick, Jessica Manzi, Jonathan New, Laurie Watanuki, 
4 of 24

--- page 5 ---
Martin Wiggins, Mark Swire, Raayan Mohtashemi, Seema Patel, Davis Turner, Elsa, Nathan Chan, Jordon 
Grimes, Phone 510…901, and Tiersa Aldridge. 
 
Commissioner feedback: increasing bike access has positive impact on health and safety; would be good to see 
what 90 percentile is biking; establish metrics to determine if/when police enforcement of neighborhood parking 
is needed;  what is the accident rate; need more data on enforcement and expected timeline to remove vehicles 
blocking driveway; look at feasibility of one-way street option; concerns related to the timing of implementation 
of parking supply options for North Central residents; delay final striping until parking mitigation implemented; 
paint parking stripes perpendicular throughout neighborhood including side streets and major arterials; educate 
North Central residents on driveway apron parking; implement no charge for red curbing; overnight parking 
options at the King Center (would this include trucks).  If overnight parking is option at King Center, San Mateo 
Adult School, San Mateo High School, and Superior Courthouse, will Council approve funds to purchase surface 
street parking in North Central; outline budget for Residential Parking Permit Program (RPPP) for Council to 
approve additional funding to implement; and suggestion for Council to approve funding for additional police 
enforcement of the Home Occupation Ordinance. 
 
No motion needed but staff polled commissioners on specific items: 
Commissioners generally supported all parking options with emphasis on red curbing, drive apron parking and 
striping parking space delineators on street; consideration on RPPP and evaluating shared parking lot 
arrangements as longer-term option. 
 
Other Programs – making the on-street accessible parking space and Get Around! program information more 
readily available to residents.  Do not support overnight vehicle parking in the bicycle lane due to safety 
concerns.  
 
Neighborhood Circulation Study - do not recommend staff consider further assessment of neighborhood 
circulation to identify different bike lane route alternatives; expressed interest in staff evaluating potential 
additional pedestrian safety improvements on Poplar Avenue;   
 
Commissioners unanimously expressed support for the implementation of the bicycle improvements as designed, 
with Commissioner Rowinski expressing desire for parking options to be available to residents at the time of the 
bicycle improvement construction.  
 
3. Transit-Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan – Update and Project Prioritization Metrics 
Nicolette Chan, Assistant Transportation Planner, and Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner, 
provided a presentation to the Commission on an informational update on the Transit-Oriented Development 
Pedestrian Access Plan and asked for feedback on the project prioritization metrics.  Ingrid Ballús Armet, Senior 
Transportation Engineer from Fehr & Peers, was also available to answer questions. 
 
Public Comment.   Raayan Mohtashemi, spoke to the item. 
 
No motion needed for this item, but staff asked for Commissioner feedback which included: moving 
development project metric from low priority to medium priority; collision data should be higher priority; 
concern over using ‘low’ priority as it suggests some metrics are not important; revisit looking at connector 
streets; Hillsdale Caltrain station needs to be improved for pedestrians and bicyclists as forces folks to jaywalk; 
issues with Hillsdale/El Camino Real on southside and missing sidewalks; difficulty crossing from north side of 
28th going west to Edison. 
 
 
5 of 24

--- page 6 ---
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENT FROM COMMISSIONER AND STAFF 
 
• Commissioner Reyes inquired about items added to the Crystal Ball, specifically an update on Cal Water 
and Public Works Asset Management.  Director Mitch stated there will be an overview in the future on 
how the department prioritizes capital improvement and the pavement management program.  Director 
Mitch will also reach out to Cal Water for potential dates. 
• Commissioner Rowinski asked if the Traffic Action Plan in the Sugarloaf area will be formally closed out 
and return to the Commission with the NTAP changes.  Director Mitch explained that several 
presentations have been made to Council giving an overview on the strategic plan and Council priorities 
on traffic management.  The department will come back at a future date with a presentation on traffic 
management and community engagement.  
 
 
 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Adjourn: 11:30 pm 
 
Agendas and background material are posted on the City’s website www.cityofanmateo.org at least 72 hours preceding each 
Commission meeting.  Any supplemental material distributed to Commissioners after the posting of the agenda will be available for 
public review at City Hall, City Manager’s office. 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this 
meeting may contact the Public Works Department at (650) 522-7300.  Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the city to 
make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting. 
 
6 of 24

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
File ID: 21-5649
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
February 09, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Stormwater Funding - Survey Findings
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an update on the Stormwater Funding Survey findings and tentative staff recommendations for implementation of 
a Stormwater Fee; and provide related input.
BACKGROUND:
Managing the City’s stormwater system includes a wide range of efforts including the operation and maintenance of the 
Marina Lagoon and other creeks, storm drains, and pump stations as well as the planning and implementation of capital 
improvement projects, trash management activities, and regulatory compliance with the Municipal Regional Stormwater 
Permit. The overall funding needs to effectively manage the City’s stormwater system are greater than what is currently 
available from the General Fund, which is approximately $3 million annually for general stormwater program operations 
and maintenance. 
The financial analysis completed in 2021 identified the following additional needs; which when combined with current 
needs bring the total stormwater needs to 8.4M annually:  
•
$625,000 for additional O&M; 
•
$1.9 million for Marina Lagoon dredging (annualized life-cycle costs derived from estimated dredging costs of as 
much as $80 million); 
•
$2.9 million for other capital projects ($68 million amortized over 30 years).  
At the February 2021 Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission (SIC) meeting, staff presented the draft Stormwater 
Funding Analysis Report.  The Stormwater Funding Analysis Report, along with feedback from the SIC, were presented to 
the City Council during the May 17, 2021 study session.  Council directed staff to proceed to the next steps towards 
implementing a potential stormwater fee.  On August 16, 2021, City Council approved a contract amendment with the 
consultant, SCI Consulting Group, that included tasks for a public opinion survey, development of a Fee Report, public 
outreach, and Proposition 218 ballot process.
The first step was conducting a public opinion survey on stormwater fees, which has been completed.  Staff presented the 
survey results to the SIC at the March 9, 2022 meeting.  The surveys were conducted by mail to mimic the balloting 
process.  Surveys were sent to property owners who were targeted through a stratified random selection process.  The 
survey tested rates and issues for (1) a city-wide stormwater fee for all services included in the Stormwater Funding 
Analysis Report; and (2) a city-wide benefit assessment focused solely on Marina Lagoon improvements such as dredging.  
This resulted in two separate, yet simultaneous surveys.
For the city-wide stormwater fee, the Stormwater Funding Analysis Report identified annual fees ranging from $120 to 
7 of 24

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
$192; and those two rates were tested.  For the Marina Lagoon survey, the Stormwater Funding Analysis Report identified 
annual assessment rates of $10 for most of the City and $50 or $150 for properties within walking distance or fronting the 
Lagoon, respectively.  The Marina Lagoon rate structure was predicted to only raise approximately $500,000 annually 
toward a total annual need of $1.9 million.  Therefore, a second, larger rate range of $23 to $350 per year was also tested; 
although estimated annual revenues of $1.2 million would still fall short of the $1.9 million needed. 
The surveys also included questions about projects and issues that might affect how a voter would view a ballot initiative. 
Respondents were asked whether a project or issue would cause them to support (or oppose) the initiative.  The surveys 
were accompanied by supplemental information that explained why the survey was being conducted, and that the City 
wanted their help in determining the best path forward.  The surveys and information were provided in both English and 
Spanish and can be referenced in Attachment 1.
Survey Results: A total of 10,000 surveys were mailed in November 2021 (5,000 each for Stormwater and the Marina 
Lagoon); and 1,550 were returned in time to be included in the results. The return rate of 15.5% is typical for mailed 
surveys and could be considered better than average considering it was the lead-up time for the holidays.
The results showed neutral support for the Stormwater fee and marginal support for the Lagoon assessment. The 
Stormwater Fee had 49.9% support at the $120/year level, and 46.8% support at the $192/year level.  The Marina Lagoon 
assessment had 54.6% support at the $10/year level, and 51.6% support at the $23/year level.  Either type of funding 
initiative would require a simple 50% majority. The margins of error on these results were 3.4% and 3.6%, respectively.  
Respondents were more likely to support a city-wide Stormwater Fee that 1) protects the City from local street and 
property flooding by properly maintaining and operating its aging storm drainage infrastructure, 2) removes trash and 
pollution from San Francisco Bay and local creeks, and 3) has dedicated funds for stormwater and could not be taken away 
by the state, county, or even the City Council.
Conversely, respondents were less likely to support a city-wide Stormwater Fee that would specifically fund Marina Lagoon 
issues such as 1) dredging and other stormwater improvements 2) preventing unwanted vegetation and other pollutants, 
and 3) as a recreational amenity and flood control facility.
The most supported projects and issues related to the Marina Lagoon Assessment survey included 1) removing trash and 
pollution to San Francisco Bay and local creeks 2) providing flood control capacity to protect streets and properties from 
local flooding, 3) ensuring safe, clean, healthy water in creeks and San Francisco Bay for future generations, and 4) 
dedicated funds for stormwater and could not be taken away by the state, county, or even the City Council. Respondents 
were less likely to support a Marina Lagoon Assessment that would only pay for some of the dredging and may not be 
enough to fully fund Lagoon dredging, likely requiring a separate stormwater fee.
Analysis and Tentative Recommendations
While the support levels for the Marina Lagoon Assessment were slightly higher than for a Stormwater Fee, the lower 
revenue potential from the former combined with the strong negative argument of insufficiency suggested that a Marina 
Lagoon-centric assessment would not be worth pursuing at this time.
The Stormwater Fee results are slightly less than 50% at the $120/year rate.  The consultant typically recommends moving 
forward on an initiative only when the support level minus the margin of error is at least 50%, which was not met. 
However, a lesser rate of under $100/year, or approximately $8/month may very well have enough support to pass.  The 
projects and issues that resonate with the community were well rounded (infrastructure, environmental and fiscal 
prudence), which forms a solid basis for an outreach and education program.
As a result, staff is recommending the following:

Conduct a robust public outreach and education program in the coming months

Develop a Fee Report that illustrates the services and improvements that would be funded at $8/month

Pursue the Stormwater Fee at a level under $100/year (approximately $8/month)
8 of 24

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

Begin the Proposition 218 ballot process in early 2023 after the upcoming general election cycle is complete

Consider a Marina Lagoon Assessment in the future
The next steps would be receiving and incorporating input from the SIC on these recommendations, and bringing them to 
the City Council Study Session on March 21, 2022.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact due to the presentation of this information item.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Stormwater Survey Items
STAFF CONTACT
Sarah Scheidt, Regulatory Compliance Manager, WWTP ( Environmental Services Division)
sscheidt@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7385
9 of 24

--- page 10 ---
Why Am I Receiving This Survey?
Investing in Local Infrastructure
The City of San Mateo operates and maintains 
various  stormwater  facilities  and performs 
activities necessary to prevent ﬂ ooding, preserve 
surface water quality, enhance recreational 
activities, and ensure compliance with all legal 
requirements. Local facilities include: Marina 
Lagoon and other creeks and channels; pipes 
and pumping systems; and trash capture 
devices. Activities include: operations and 
maintenance; capital improvements and master 
planning; environmental compliance; and system 
management and administration.
See Reverse Side for More Information    
 CITY OF SAN MATEO
Information Fact Sheet
Clean Creeks and Flood Protection Initiative
Like most cities across the Nation, San Mateo 
viewed their storm drainage system as a simple 
conveyance for  rain runoﬀ .  But over the past 
30 years, environmental health and safety 
requirements  have  brought  stormwater  programs 
on par with other municipal utilities like water and 
sewer systems. And like those utilities, a dedicated 
and sustainable revenue stream is the most fair 
and reliable way to fund the City’s investment into 
this critical infrastructure. 
The City of San Mateo is considering proposing 
a funding measure to help pay for the critical 
needs in managing the stormwater facilities, and 
seeks input from local property owners on your 
priorities for stormwater activities.  
Current operations are estimated at $3.0 million 
per year.  However, in order to sustainability fund 
the Stormwater Program and meet adequate levels 
of service an additional $5.4 million is needed per 
year. This is includes an additional $0.6 million 
for additional operations and maintenance, $1.9 
million for Marina Lagoon dredging, and $2.9 
million for other important capital projects and 
programs.
Long-Term Financial Sustainability
Funds from this local funding measure would 
be used to continue to protect our streets from 
local ﬂ ooding, ensure clean water for enjoyment, 
restore and maintain Marina Lagoon, and protect 
this critical City feature for current and future 
generations.
Please read the following information, then 
complete the enclosed survey and return it in 
the postage paid envelope as soon as possible. 
Your answers will help guide our eﬀ orts towards 
protecting the City and its residents from local 
ﬂ ooding and protecting water quality. 
Water levels in the south end of the Lagoon have decreased dramatically 
due to silt deposits, resulting in loss of navigable water depth for boating, 
loss of wildlife habitat, and decreased stormwater retention capacity greatly 
reducing the City’s ﬂ ood control capacity. 
To fund the Stormwater Program in sustainable 
manner, a separate, dedicated revenue stream 
is recommended that would no longer compete 
with other General Fund priorities and would be 
shared by property owners in a fairer way. It is 
estimated a monthly fee between $10 and $16 for 
the average home would fund this program.
The City’s Stormwater Program is funded largely 
from the City’s General Fund where it must 
compete with other community priorities such as 
public safety, roads, and parks.  Due to this, and the 
limited nature of the General Fund, the Stormwater 
Program has been operating at a minimum level 
of service with few investments in critical projects 
aimed at reducing ﬂ ood risks and performing pro-
active maintenance on Marina Lagoon. 
10 of 24

--- page 11 ---
Marina Lagoon - Gem of the City
Other System Deﬁ ciencies
City of San Mateo - Clean Creeks and Flood Protection Initiative 
               Information Fact Sheet 
Stormwater Improvement Plan    
Protecting Property
Sustainable Stormdrains
Protecting the Bay
The City’s stormwater system is comprised of 
130 miles of storm drains, 20 miles of open creeks 
and drainage channels, 1 ﬂ ood control lagoon,  9 
pumping stations, and a 3 mile bayfront levee. 
Routine operation and maintenance activities 
include cleaning and repairs of curbs, inlets, catch 
basins, lateral and main lines, and outfalls. Various 
factors, such as clogged catch basins or pipes that 
do not adequately convey standard rainwater 
ﬂ ow, cause ﬂ ooding in various areas throughout 
the City, making it diﬃ  cult for pedestrians, 
bicycles, motorcycles, cars, and emergency 
vehicles to navigate.
Routine Operations
Among the stormwater management activities 
in the City of San Mateo, one has emerged as 
paramount: stewardship of Marina Lagoon. 
As the receiving body of most of the City’s 
stormwater ﬂ ows, the Lagoon has an important 
drainage role.  In addition, it plays a large role as a 
recreational amenity for swimming, boating, and 
other water activities. However, both the drainage 
and recreational aspects are being degraded due 
to the accumulation of silt and sediment that cause 
navigation and health problems. An analysis 
that showed that dredging Marina Lagoon to its 
original state would cost as much as $85 million 
– more than all other stormwater capital needs 
combined. If left unatt ended, Marina Lagoon 
would continue to degrade and cease to be a 
recreational amenity - the Gem of the City.
To respond online, or para responder en español, visit www.inputlocal.com and enter code found on front of survey
City engineers and maintenance crews have 
eﬀ ectively maintained our stormwater system 
on a limited budget for many years.  However, 
much of the system is no over 50 years old and 
reaching the end of its design life. The areas where 
improvements need to be made include segments 
of 16th Avenue, 9th Avenue, Laurel Creek, Coyote 
Point, Detroit Drive as well as 13 high priority 
projects are aimed at reducing ﬂ ooding throughout 
the City.
11 of 24

--- page 12 ---
¿Por qué recibo esta encuesta? 
Inversión en infraestructura local 
La ciudad de San Mateo está considerando proponer 
una medida de financiación para ayudar a pagar las 
necesidades fundamentales en el control de las 
instalaciones de desagüe pluvial, y busca conocer la 
opinión de los propietarios locales sobre las 
prioridades en actividades de este servicio. 
Lea la siguiente información, complete la encuesta 
adjunta y envíela dentro de un sobre con franqueo 
pago lo antes posible. Sus respuestas nos ayudarán a 
enfocar los esfuerzos hacia la conservación de la 
calidad del agua y la protección de la ciudad y sus 
residentes contra las inundaciones locales. 
Sustentabilidad financiera a largo plazo El 
Programa 
de 
desagüe 
pluvial 
de 
la 
ciudad 
(Stormwater Program) está financiado, en gran parte, 
por el Fondo general de la ciudad, donde debe 
competir con otras prioridades de la comunidad, 
como la seguridad, carreteras y parque públicos. Por 
lo tanto, y debido a la naturaleza limitada del fondo 
general, este programa ha operado a un nivel de 
servicio mínimo, con pocas inversiones en proyectos 
esenciales dirigidos a la reducción de riesgos por 
inundación y al mantenimiento proactivo de Marina 
Lagoon. 
Se calcula que las operaciones actuales utilizan 
$3 000 000 por año. Sin embargo, se necesita un 
adicional de $5 400 000 por año para financiar el 
programa de manera sustentable y cumplir los niveles 
adecuados de servicio. Esto incluye un adicional de 
$600 000 
para 
operaciones 
y 
mantenimiento 
complementarios, $1 900 000 para el dragado de 
Marina Lagoon y $2 900 000 para otros proyectos de 
capital y programas importantes. 
 
Para financiar el programa de desagüe pluvial de 
forma sustentable, se recomienda una fuente de 
ingresos independiente y específica que no compita 
con otras prioridades del fondo general y capte el 
interés de los propietarios de una manera más 
razonable. Se calcula que una cuota mensual de entre 
$10 y $16 por hogar promedio podría financiar el 
programa. 
La ciudad de San Mateo opera y mantiene distintas 
instalaciones de desagüe pluvial y realiza acciones 
necesarias para evitar inundaciones, conservar la 
calidad del agua superficial, fomentar las actividades 
recreativas y asegurar el cumplimiento de todos los 
requisitos legales. Las instalaciones locales son: Marina 
Lagoon y otros arroyos y canales; tuberías y sistemas 
de bombeo; y dispositivos de recolección de basura. 
Las acciones que se llevan a cabo son: operaciones y 
mantenimiento; mejoras del capital y planificación 
principal; cumplimiento de las medidas ecológicas; y 
administración del sistema. 
Como la mayoría de las ciudades del país, San Mateo 
consideraba al sistema de desagüe pluvial un simple 
medio de transporte para el escurrimiento del agua de 
lluvia. No obstante, durante los últimos 30 años, las 
necesidades de seguridad e higiene ambiental han 
puesto a los programas de aguas pluviales a la par de 
otros servicios municipales como los sistemas de agua 
corriente y alcantarillado.  Al igual que estos servicios, 
la implementación de una fuente de ingresos específica 
y sustentable es la forma más justa y confiable de 
financiar 
la 
inversión 
de 
la 
ciudad 
en 
esta 
infraestructura fundamental. 
Los fondos de esta medida de financiación se 
destinarían a continuar con la protección de nuestras 
calles contra las inundaciones, garantizar agua limpia 
para la recreación, restaurar y mantener Marina 
Lagoon y proteger este elemento esencial de la ciudad 
para las generaciones actuales y futuras. 
 
Los niveles de agua en el extremo sur de Marina Lagoon se han reducido drásticamente 
debido a los depósitos de lodo, lo cual llevó a la pérdida de profundidad del agua de 
navegación, a la pérdida de hábitats de la fauna y a la reducción de la capacidad de 
retención de aguas pluviales, por lo que se redujo también la capacidad de control de las 
inundaciones de la ciudad. 
 
 
Consulte el reverso para obtener más información 
CIUDAD DE SAN MATEO 
Iniciativa de arroyos limpios y protección contra inundaciones 
Ficha informativa 
12 of 24

--- page 13 ---
Ciudad de San Mateo - Iniciativa de arroyos limpios y protección contra inundaciones 
Ficha informativa 
 
 
Marina Lagoon - La joya de la ciudad Entre 
las actividades de administración de las aguas 
pluviales en la ciudad de San Mateo, una de ellas 
cobró especial importancia: la administración de 
Marina Lagoon. La laguna tiene una importante 
función en el desagüe de la ciudad, ya que se trata del 
cuerpo receptor del caudal de la mayor parte de las 
aguas pluviales. Además, cumple un rol importante 
como servicio recreativo donde se puede realizar 
natación, navegación y otras actividades acuáticas. 
Sin embargo,  tanto su función de drenaje como su 
función recreativa están deteriorándose debido a la 
acumulación de lodo y sedimento que causan 
problemas en la salud y la navegación. Según un 
estudio, dragar Marina Lagoon para recuperar su 
estado original costaría hasta $85 000 000,  
más que todo el capital que se necesita para otros 
servicios de desagüe pluvial. Si no se atiende esta 
cuestión, la laguna continuará deteriorándose hasta 
dejar de ser un espacio recreativo, la joya de la 
ciudad. 
 
 
Operaciones de rutina 
El sistema de aguas pluviales de la ciudad se 
compone de 209 kilómetros de desagües pluviales, 32 
kilómetros de arroyos y canales de desagüe abiertos, 
1 laguna para el control de inundaciones, 9 estaciones 
de bombeo y un dique de 3 millas en la bahía. Las 
actividades rutinarias de operación y mantenimiento 
incluyen la limpieza y reparación de cunetas, tomas 
de entrada, sumideros, líneas principales y laterales y 
emisarios. Las inundaciones se generan en distintas 
zonas de la ciudad debido a varios factores, como 
sumideros tapados o tuberías que no cumplen con la 
capacidad de caudal de agua necesaria, lo que 
dificulta la circulación de peatones, bicicletas, 
motocicletas, automóviles y vehículos de emergencia. 
 
Otras fallas del sistema 
Los equipos de mantenimiento e ingenieros de la 
ciudad han logrado mantener nuestro sistema de 
desagüe pluvial de forma eficaz con un presupuesto 
escaso durante muchos años. No obstante, gran parte 
del sistema no tiene más de 50 años y ya está 
alcanzando el límite de vida útil. Las zonas donde se 
necesitan arreglos y mejoras son algunos tramos de la 
16th Avenue, 9th Avenue, Laurel Creek y Coyote 
Point y Detroit Drive. Además, se cuenta con 13 
proyectos de prioridad alta que apuntan a la 
reducción de las inundaciones en la ciudad. 
 
 
  Protección de la propiedad 
Desagües pluviales sustentables 
Protección de la bahía  
 
 Si desea responder en línea o en español, visite www.inputlocal.com e ingrese el código que se encuentra en el frente de la 
encuesta  
Plan para mejorar el desagüe 
13 of 24

--- page 14 ---
Please use the space below to write any reasons why you support or oppose this proposed measure.  Also, please describe which 
issues are most important to you:
This survey has been mailed to a random sample of residents and business owners in the City of San Mateo to gather information and 
input. This information will help the City make decisions about funding for future stormwater management activities. Please complete 
and return this survey as soon as possible. You may take the survey online or mail the completed survey below in the postage-prepaid 
return envelope provided. Please return it by November 26, 2021. 
       Detach Here                                                  Fill in Lower Portion, Detach at this Line, and Mail Back in Return Envelope                                                                     Detach Here
Deﬁ nitely YES 
Probably YES  
Probably NO  
Deﬁ nitely NO
Residents and business owners within San Mateo may be asked to vote on a 
local ballot measure as follows.  Please indicate your level of support.
CITY OF SAN MATEO OFFICIAL SURVEY
Clean Creeks & Flood Protection Initiative
Now, please read the following statements regarding the proposed Clean Creeks and Flood Protection Initiative ballot 
measure.  For each statement, please indicate whether they make you more or less likely to support the measure:
 
Much  Somewhat 
 
Somewhat Much
       More        More 
No 
Less 
Less
 
Likely 
Likely Impact Likely 
Likely
 
Survey Instructions:
1) Read each question listed below. 
2) Fill in the circle for your response.  Please use a 
pen and completely fill in the circle.
3) Detach the bottom portion of this sheet 
containing your answers.
4) Place the bottom portion of this sheet in the 
return envelope and mail (no postage needed).
This survey is being conducted by an independent third party on behalf of the City. All informaƟ on obtained through this process will remain conﬁ denƟ al and only shared with the City in aggregate form.
In order to protect our streets and properties from local ﬂ ooding, and ensure clean water for enjoyment                                                       
of Marina Lagoon, San Francisco Bay and our local creeks and channels by:
• Maintaining, cleaning, repairing, rehabilitating and operating our stormwater infrastructure;
• Keeping trash and other pollutants from ﬂ owing into areas where it can interfere with recreation and harm habitat; 
• Restoring Marina Lagoon to its original boating depth and managing vegetation growth and other water quality issues.
would you support a monthly fee on each property(ies) in the amount of ___________?
2. 
This measure would help protect the City of San Mateo from local street and property ﬂ ooding     
by properly maintaining and operating its aging storm drainage infrastructure .....................................
3.   This measure would pay for dredging of Marina Lagoon as well as other stormwater improvements
4.  
This measure would pay for the maintenance of trash capture devices in storm drains which 
remove trash and pollution before they enter the Bay and our local creeks and channels .................
5. 
The City plans to address its drainage and water quality challenges in ways that are environmentally 
sustainable, including green infrastructure, to protect Marina Lagoon ........................................................
6. 
This measure would be a critical ﬁ rst step in combating the effects of climate change such as sea 
level rise and more frequent and intense storms....................................................................................... 
7. 
This measure would fund high-priority capital projects designed to protect against local ﬂ ooding 
and improve water quality .............................................................................................................................
8. 
This measure would be fully dedicated to stormwater services, and cannot be used for any other 
reason by the City Council or taken away by county or state government  ...........................................
9. 
This measure would help ensure recreation such as swimming, boating, and other water activities 
would be safe from unwanted vegetation and other pollutants ...............................................................
10.   This measure would also fund Marina Lagoon as a recreational amenity that also serves as a ﬂ ood 
control facility ..................................................................................................................................................
11. Creating a dedicated, sustainable funding source is the best way to ensure clean water and avoid 
local ﬂ ooding......................................................................................................................................
SMSW
To complete this survey online please do one of the following:
• visit www.inputlocal.com, enter: SURVEY NAME “SANMATEOSW”, SURVEY CODE ________, or
• scan the QR CODE on the right with your phone and follow the instructions.
1.
SMSW
ownerid
14 of 24

--- page 15 ---
Utilice el siguiente espacio para escribir cualquier razón que tenga para apoyar u oponerse a la propuesta. Además, puede explicar 
cualquier asunto que le parezca relevante:
Se envió por correo esta encuesta, a residentes y propietarios de negocios de la ciudad de San Mateo para obtener información y 
comentarios. Esta información ayudará a la ciudad a tomar decisiones sobre la financiación de las futuras actividades de administración 
de las aguas pluviales. Complete y envíe esta encuesta lo antes posible. Puede realizarla en línea o enviarla por correo en el sobre de 
respuesta pagado que recibió. Envíela antes del 26 de Noviembre de 2021.
       Corte aqui                                                 Cmplete la parte interior, corte en esta linea y enviela por correo en el sobre                                                                     Corte aqui
Deﬁ nitivamente SÍ 
Probablemente SÍ 
Probablemente NO Deﬁ nitivamente NO
Se les puede pedir a los residentes y propietarios de negocios de San Mateo que voten en una medida 
electoral local de la siguiente manera. Indique su nivel de apoyo.
ENCUESTA OFICIAL DE LA CIUDAD DE SAN MATEO
Lea las siguientes afirmaciones con respecto a la propuesta de ley sobre la iniciativa de arroyos limpios y protección contra 
inundaciones En cada afirmación indique que tan probable es que apoye la propuesta:
   Más        Un poco  No        Un poco   Menos
   probable más         inﬂ uye  menos     probable 
                  probable              probable
 
Instrucciones para la encuesta:
1) Lea atentamente las preguntas enumeradas más 
abajo.
2) Marque el círculo con su respuesta. Utilice un 
bolígrafo y rellene todo el círculo.
3) Corte la parte inferior de esta hoja que contiene sus 
respuestas.
4) Coloque la parte que cortó dentro del sobre que 
enviará y llévelo al correo (no page la estampilla).
Esta encuesta la gesƟ ona un tercero imparcial en nombre de la ciudad. Toda la información que se obtenga a través de este proceso será conﬁ dencial y solo se comparƟ rá con la ciudad de forma conjunta.
A ﬁ n de proteger nuestras calles y propiedades de las inundaciones locales, así como de garantizar agua limpia 
para disfrutar Marina Lagoon, la bahía de San Francisco y nuestros arroyos y canales locales mediante lo siguiente:
2. Esta medida ayudaría a proteger a la ciudad de San Mateo de inundaciones en sus calles y 
propiedades, ya que mantendría y administraría la infraestructura de alcantarillado pluvial de 
manera adecuada ......................................................................................................................................
3.   Esta medida ayudaría a pagar el dragado de Marina Lagoon y a hacer otras mejoras relacionadas 
con las aguas pluviales  ............................................................................................................................
4.  Esta medida cubriría los gastos de mantenimiento de los dispositivos de ﬁ ltrado de basura en las 
alcantarillas pluviales, que eliminan la basura y los contaminantes antes de que ingresen a la bahía 
y a nuestros arroyos y canales locales ....................................................................................................
5. Para proteger Marina Lagoon, la ciudad abordará las diﬁ cultades del desagüe y la calidad del agua 
de manera sustentable para el medio ambiente, incluida la infraestructura ecológica .........................
6. Esta medida sería un primer paso fundamental para combatir los efectos del cambio climático, como 
la elevación del nivel del mar y tormentas más frecuentes e intensas .................................................. 
7. Esta medida permitiría ﬁ nanciar proyectos de capital de alta prioridad diseñados para brindar 
protección contra las inundaciones y mejorar la calidad del agua .........................................................
8. Esta propuesta se destinará completamente a los servicios de aguas pluviales. El concejo municipal     
no podrá utilizarla para ningún otro ﬁ n, ni el gobierno estatal ni del condado podrán eliminarla  ........
9. Esta medida ayudaría a garantizar que las actividades recreativas, como la natación, la 
navegación y otras actividades acuáticas, estén resguardadas de la vegetación indeseada y otros 
contaminantes ............................................................................................................................................
10. Esta medida ﬁ nanciaría Marina Lagoon como establecimiento recreativo que también actúa como 
establecimiento de control de las inundaciones ......................................................................................
11. Crear una fuente de ﬁ nanciación exclusiva y sustentable es la mejor manera de garantizar agua 
limpia y de evitar inundaciones locales ....................................................................................................
SMSW
Elija una de las siguientes opciones para completar esta encuesta en línea:
• visit www.inputlocal.com, e ingrese: SURVEY NAME “SANMATEOSW”, SURVEY CODE ________; o
• escanee el código QR de la derecha con su teléfono y siga las instrucciones.
1.
SMSW
ownerid
Iniciativa de arroyos limpios y protección contra inundaciones
• medidas para evitar que la basura y otros contaminantes ﬂ uyan hacia áreas donde puedan interferir con la recreación
   o causar daños en el hábitat;
• mantenimiento, limpieza, reparación, rehabilitación y administración de nuestra infraestructura para aguas pluviales;
• recuperación de la profundidad de navegación original de la laguna y gestión del crecimiento de la vegetación y de
   otros problemas relacionados con la calidad del agua,
¿Colaboraría con una tarifa mensual por cada propiedad por el monto de _________?
15 of 24

--- page 16 ---
Why Am I Receiving This Survey?
Investing in Local Infrastructure
All of us in San Mateo are dependent on our local 
storm drainage system to keep our streets, homes, 
and property safe from local flooding, primarily 
due to seasonal rain storms. However, among the 
stormwater management activities in the City of San 
Mateo, one has emerged as paramount: stewardship 
of Marina Lagoon. As the receiving body of most of 
the City’s stormwater flows, Marina lagoon has an 
important drainage role and acts as a flood control 
basin, ultimately providing protection to properties 
and roadways from large winter storms.  
In addition, Marina lagoon plays a large role as a 
community recreational amenity for scenic walks, 
swimming, boating, and other water activities. 
However, both the drainage and recreational aspects 
are being degraded due to the accumulation of silt and 
sediment coming from upstream sources.  As a result, 
the City of San Mateo is considering proposing a funding 
measure to help pay for these critical infrastructure 
needs, and seeks input from local property owners 
on your priorities for restoration and maintenance of 
Marina Lagoon, and local flood protection. Please read 
the following information, and complete the enclosed 
survey. Your answers will help guide our efforts 
toward restoring and maintaining Marina Lagoon, and 
protecting the City and its residents.   
In recognition of the challenges facing Marina Lagoon, 
the City of San Mateo conducted an analysis in 2018 
showing that a full dredging of Marina Lagoon to its 
original state, which has not been done since 1965, 
would cost as much as $85 million – more than all other 
stormwater capital needs combined. Additionally, the 
analysis found overall stormwater funding needs are 
greater than what is currently available through the 
General Fund.
In response to this information, the City is currently 
exploring funding options to effectively manage both 
Marina Lagoon, and the City’s overall stormwater 
system.  The included survey questionnaire will help 
the City evaluate the community’s priorities regarding 
investment in Marina Lagoon and protecting this 
Beach-going is a popular activity at 
Marina Lagoon
See Reverse Side for More Information    
Marina Lagoon as an Amenity 
and Infrastucture
Marina Lagoon featuers nine miles of waterfront, and 
receives most of the City’s stormwater runoff
Marina Lagoon 
Restoration Initiative
Marina Lagoon serves a dual purpose as the City’s 
primary flood control basin, while providing local 
recreational activities such as scenic strolls, beach 
activities, and boating. Marina Lagoon’s function 
within the City’s Stormwater infrastructure and as 
a recreational attraction comprises an inter-related 
system requiring significant resources to excel in its 
performance of both functions. 
16 of 24

--- page 17 ---
Challenges Facing Marina 
Lagoon
To respond online, or para responder en español, visit www.inputlocal.com and enter code found on front of survey
Long-Term Financial Sustainability
The City currently spends approximately $500,000 
annually for managing Marina Lagoon, including 
operations, maintenance, water quality and vegetation 
management; money that comes from the City’s General 
Fund where it must compete with many other community 
services such as public safetey, roads, and parks.  But 
all this is a losing battle without removing the silt and 
sediment that has built up over the past five decades. The 
lack of a dedicated, sustainable funding source is resulting 
in degradation of Marina Lagoon as a recreational amenity 
and stormwater infrastructure facility.
A local funding measure would go a long way toward 
restoring Marina Lagoon, and protect this critical City 
feature for current and future generations. 
Information Fact Sheet
Funds from a local ballot measure would allow the 
City to restore and properly maintain Marina Lagoon. 
Following is a list of improvements to Marina Lagoon 
that additional funding could provide:
•	
Vegetation growth management
•	
Improved water quality due to dredging
•	
Silt excavation for proper tide gate functionality
•	
Increased stormwater retention capacity due to dredging
•	
Restoration of navigable water depth for boating and kayaking
•	
Restoration of bird and other wildlife habitat
What Will a Funding Measure    
Provide?
Marina Lagoon receives water conveyed from three 
of the City’s four main local creeks; Leslie Creek, 
Borel Creek, and Laurel Creek, consumating its 
role as a stormwater retention and flood control 
basin.Tidal gates at the southern and northern 
ends of Marina Lagoon act as an inlet and outlet. 
In 1964 when the last full dredging was completed, 
Marina Lagoon infrastructure provided a navigable 
body of water for recreational use, and a wildlife 
sanctuary for birds and animals.  
However, 40 years have passed since the last 
partial dredging in 1981, and both the drainage 
and recreational aspects of Marina Lagoon are 
being degraded due to the accumulation of silt 
and sediment coming from upstream sources and 
the Bay, causing other environmental problems 
such as algae blooms, water quality, and limited 
navigable water depth for boats. 
Algae blooms are increasing due to 
higher temperatures associated with 
climate change 
Water levels in the south end of Marina 
Lagoon have decreased dramatically 
due to silt deposits, resulting in loss 
of navigable water depth for boating, 
loss of wildlife habitat, and decreased 
stormwater retention capacity greatly 
reducing the City’s flood control 
capacity. 
Marina Lagoon drains water from most of the City’s creeks and pipes, 
providing critical stormwater retention for the City
Marina Lagoon 
Restoration Initiative
17 of 24

--- page 18 ---
Iniciativa de recuperación 
de Marina Lagoon 
 
¿Por qué recibo esta encuesta? 
Todas las personas de San Mateo dependemos de 
nuestro sistema de alcantarillado pluvial local para 
proteger nuestras calles, nuestros hogares y nuestras 
pertenencias 
de 
las 
inundaciones 
locales, 
principalmente debido a las tormentas de estación. 
Sin 
embargo, 
dentro 
de 
las 
actividades 
de 
administración de las aguas pluviales en la ciudad de 
San Mateo, una de ellas cobró especial importancia: la 
administración de Marina Lagoon. La laguna tiene 
una importante función en el desagüe de la ciudad, ya 
que se trata del cuerpo receptor del caudal de la 
mayor parte de las aguas pluviales y actúa como 
cuenca para controlar las inundaciones y, en última 
instancia, protege las propiedades y las carreteras de 
las grandes tormentas invernales. 
Además, Marina Lagoon cumple un rol importante 
como servicio recreativo comunitario donde se 
pueden realizar pintorescas caminatas, natación, 
navegación 
y 
otras 
actividades 
acuáticas. 
Sin 
embargo, tanto su función de drenaje como su 
función recreativa están deteriorándose debido a la 
acumulación de lodo y sedimento que proviene de 
fuentes río arriba. Como consecuencia, la ciudad de 
San Mateo está pensando en proponer una medida de 
financiamiento para ayudar a pagar estas necesidades 
de infraestructura fundamentales y busca conocer la 
opinión de los propietarios locales sobre sus 
prioridades en cuanto a la recuperación y el 
mantenimiento de Marina Lagoon y a la protección 
local contra las inundaciones. Lea la siguiente 
información y complete la encuesta que se adjunta. 
Sus respuestas ayudarán a guiar nuestros esfuerzos 
para recuperar y mantener la laguna Marina y para 
proteger a la ciudad y sus residentes. 
 
Ir a la playa es una actividad popular en 
Marina Lagoon. 
Marina Lagoon como 
establecimiento e infraestructura 
Marina Lagoon cumple un doble fin, ya que es la 
principal cuenca para el control de las inundaciones 
de la ciudad y, al mismo tiempo, ofrece actividades 
recreativas locales, como caminatas pintorescas, 
actividades de playa y navegación. La función de 
Marina Lagoon dentro de la infraestructura pluvial 
de la ciudad y como atracción recreativa comprende 
un sistema interrelacionado que requiere de muchos 
recursos para poder cumplir con sus dos funciones de 
manera correcta. 
 
Marina Lagoon tiene una orilla de nueve millas y 
recibe la mayor parte del agua de escorrentía de la ciudad 
 
Inversión en infraestructura local 
Tras reconocer las dificultades que atraviesa Marina 
Lagoon, la ciudad de San Mateo llevó a cabo un 
análisis en 2018, a partir del cual se demostró que 
dragar por completo la laguna para recuperar su 
estado original, lo cual no se ha hecho desde 1965, 
costaría $85 millones, más que todas las demás 
necesidades 
de 
capital 
para 
aguas 
pluviales 
combinadas. Además, a partir del análisis se 
determinó que los fondos que se necesitan para 
invertir en las aguas pluviales son mayores que el 
monto que está disponible actualmente a través del 
fondo general. 
Como respuesta a esta información, la ciudad está 
explorando 
opciones 
de 
financiamiento 
para 
administrar de manera eficaz tanto Marina Lagoon 
como el sistema general de aguas pluviales de la 
ciudad. La encuesta que incluimos ayudará a la 
ciudad a evaluar las prioridades de la comunidad en 
relación con las inversiones en Marina Lagoon y en su 
protección. 
  
Consulte el reverso para obtener más información 
 
18 of 24

--- page 19 ---
Iniciativa de recuperación 
de Marina Lagoon 
Ficha informativa 
Las dificultades que 
atraviesa Marina Lagoon 
 
Marina Lagoon recibe el agua que drena de la mayoría de los riachuelos y las 
tuberías de la ciudad, por lo que constituye un sistema de retención 
de aguas pluviales fundamental para la ciudad. 
 
Marina Lagoon recibe el agua proveniente de tres 
de los cuatro riachuelos principales de la ciudad 
(los riachuelos Leslie, Borel y Laurel), por lo que 
consuma su función como cuenca de retención de 
aguas pluviales y de control de inundaciones. Las 
compuertas de marea en los extremos norte y sur 
de la laguna actúan como entrada y salida. En 
1964, cuando se llevó a cabo el último dragado 
completo, la infraestructura de Marina Lagoon 
ofrecía un cuerpo de agua navegable para uso 
recreativo y un santuario de vida silvestre para 
aves y animales. 
No obstante, ya han pasado 40 años desde su 
último dragado parcial en 1981, y tanto su función 
de drenaje como su función recreativa se están 
deteriorando debido a la acumulación de lodo y 
sedimento que proviene de fuentes río arriba y de 
la bahía, lo cual genera otros problemas 
ambientales, como la proliferación de algas, el 
deterioro de la calidad del agua y la limitación de 
la profundidad del agua para navegar. 
Sustentabilidad financiera a largo 
plazo 
En la actualidad, la ciudad invierte aproximadamente 
$500 000 al año en la administración de Marina 
Lagoon, lo cual incluye operaciones, mantenimiento y 
administración de la calidad del agua y la vegetación. 
Este dinero proviene del fondo general de la ciudad, 
donde debe competir con muchos otros servicios 
comunitarios, 
como 
la 
seguridad 
pública, 
las 
carreteras y los parques.  Pero todo está destinado a 
fracasar si no se elimina el lodo y el sedimento que se 
acumuló en las últimas cinco décadas. La falta de una 
fuente de financiación exclusiva y sostenible está 
llevando 
al 
deterioro 
de 
la 
laguna 
como 
establecimiento recreativo y de infraestructura para 
las aguas pluviales. 
 
Una medida de financiamiento local podría contribuir 
mucho a la recuperación de la laguna y a la 
protección de este atractivo fundamental de la ciudad 
para las generaciones actuales y futuras. 
¿Qué garantizará una 
medida de financiamiento? 
Los fondos provenientes de una medida electoral 
local le permitirían a la ciudad recuperar y mantener 
Marina Lagoon de manera adecuada. La siguiente es 
una 
lista 
de 
mejoras 
en 
la 
laguna 
que 
el 
financiamiento adicional podría ayudar a garantizar: 
• 
Administración del crecimiento de la vegetación. 
• 
Mejora de la calidad del agua gracias al dragado. 
• 
Excavación del lodo para mejorar el funcionamiento de las 
compuertas de marea. 
• 
Mayor capacidad de retención de las aguas pluviales gracias al 
dragado. 
• 
Recuperación de la profundidad del agua para poder navegar en 
bote y hacer kayak. 
• 
Recuperación del hábitat para aves y otros tipos de fauna. 
 
Los niveles de agua en el extremo sur de Marina Lagoon 
se han reducido drásticamente debido a los depósitos de 
lodo, lo cual llevó a la pérdida de profundidad del agua de 
navegación, a la pérdida de hábitats de la fauna y a la 
reducción de la capacidad de retención de aguas 
pluviales, por lo que se redujo también la capacidad de 
control de las inundaciones de la ciudad. 
 
 
La proliferación de algas ha 
aumentado debido a las altas 
temperaturas relacionadas con 
el cambio climático. 
 
 
Si desea responder en línea o en español, visite www.inputlocal.com e ingrese el código que se encuentra en 
el frente de la encuesta 
19 of 24

--- page 20 ---
Please use the space below to write any reasons why you support or oppose this proposed measure.  Also, please describe which 
issues are most important to you:
This survey has been mailed to a random sample of residents and business owners in the City of San Mateo to gather information and 
input.  This information will help the City make decisions about funding for future Marina Lagoon restoration and maintenance services. 
Please complete and return this survey as soon as possible. You may take the survey online or mail the completed survey below in the 
postage-prepaid return envelope provided. Please return it by November 26, 2021. 
       Detach Here                                                  Fill in Lower Portion, Detach at this Line, and Mail Back in Return Envelope                                                                     Detach Here
Definitely YES	
Probably YES 	
Probably NO 	
Definitely NO
Residents and business owners within San Mateo may be asked to vote on a 
local ballot measure as follows.  Please indicate your level of support.
CITY OF SAN MATEO OFFICIAL SURVEY
Marina Lagoon Restoration Initiative
Now, please read the following statements regarding the proposed Marina Lagoon Restoration Initiative ballot measure.  For 
each statement, please indicate whether they make you more or less likely to support the measure:
	
Much 	 Somewhat	
	
Somewhat	 Much
       More	        More	
No	
Less	
Less
	
Likely	
Likely	 Impact	 Likely	
Likely
	
Survey Instructions:
1)	 Read each question listed below. 
2)	 Fill in the circle for your response.  Please use a 
pen and completely fill in the circle.
3)	 Detach the bottom portion of this sheet 
containing your answers.
4)	 Place the bottom portion of this sheet in the 
return envelope and mail (no postage needed).
Mateo-ml
This survey is being conducted by an independent third party on behalf of the City. All information obtained through this process will remain confidential and only shared with the City in aggregate form.
In order to continue to protect and invest in Marina Lagoon as a community amenity for                                                               
scenic enjoyment, beach-going, boating, and other water activities for future generations by:
• 
Managing vegetation growth and other water quality issues; and
• 
Increasing stormwater retention and flood control capacity by dredging silt and sediments; and
• 
Restoring Marina Lagoon to a water depth that supports boating, recreation, and storm flows;
would you support an annual assessment on each property(ies) in the amount of ___________, collected on the property tax bill?
2.	
This measure would pay for some of the dredging of Marina Lagoon to restore the channel to its      
original boating water depth.............................................................................................................................
3.  	
This measure would help fund the annual maintenance effort to keep Marina Lagoon clean and safe for 
boating, swimming, and other water activities..................................................................................................
4.	
This measure would provide increased flood control capacity in Marina Lagoon, protecting our streets and 
properties from local flooding...........................................................................................................................
5. 	
The City plans to install trash capture devices in storm drains which remove trash and pollution before 
they enter Marina Lagoon and San Francisco Bay..........................................................................................
6. 
This measure would be a critical first step in combating the effects of climate change on Marina Lagoon, 
where lower water levels and increased temperatures are increasing the frequency of algae blooms..........
7.	
This measure may not be enough to fully fund Marina Lagoon dredging work; a separate stormwater fee       
may be needed to fund this important work along with other stormwater management challenges..............
8.	
The City plans to address its drainage and water quality challenges in ways that are environmentally 
sustainable, including green infrastructure, to protect Marina Lagoon............................................................
9.	
This measure would be fully dedicated to the restoration and maintenance of Marina Lagoon, and could 
not be used for any other reason by the City Council or taken away by county or state government............
10.	
This measure would include rates tiered by proximity to Marina Lagoon (frontage, walkable, others)..........
11. 
This measure would help ensure safe, clean, healthy water in the creeks flowing through San Mateo to 
Marina Lagoon and the Bay, now and for future generations....................................................................
ownerid
To complete this survey online please do one of the following:
• visit www.inputlocal.com, enter: SURVEY NAME “MATEOML-1”, SURVEY CODE ________, or
• scan the QR CODE on the right with your phone and follow the instructions.
barcode
1.
20 of 24

--- page 21 ---
Utilice el siguiente espacio para escribir cualquier razón que tenga para apoyar u oponerse a la propuesta. Además, puede explicar 
cualquier asunto que le parezca relevante:
Se envió por correo esta encuesta, a residentes y propietarios de negocios de la ciudad de San Mateo para obtener información y 
comentarios. Esta información ayudará a la ciudad a tomar decisiones sobre la financiación de la futura recuperación de Marina Lagoon 
y los servicios de mantenimiento. Complete y envíe esta encuesta lo antes posible. Puede llenarla en línea o enviarla por correo en el 
sobre de respuesta pagado que recibió. Envíela antes del 26 de noviembre de 2021. 
          Corte aquí                                 Complete la parte inferior, corte en esta línea y envíela por correo en el sobre                                                                                  Corte aquí
Se les puede pedir a los residentes y propietarios de negocios de San Mateo que voten 
en una medida electoral local de la siguiente manera. Indique su nivel de apoyo.
ENCUESTA OFICIAL DE LA CIUDAD DE SAN MATEO
Iniciativa de recuperación de Marina Lagoon
Lea las siguientes afirmaciones con respecto a la propuesta de ley de restauración de Marina Lagoon. En cada afirmación indique que tan 
probable es que apoye la propuesta:
	
	
Instrucciones para la encuesta:
1)Lea atentamente las preguntas enumeradas 
  más abajo.
2)Marque el círculo con su respuesta. Utilice 
  una pluma (bolígrafo) y rellene todo el círculo.
3)Corte la parte inferior de esta hoja que con
  tiene sus respuestas.
4)Coloque la parte que cortó dentro del sobre que 
enviará y llévelo al correo (no page la estampilla).
Mateo-ml
Esta encuesta la gestiona un tercero imparcial en nombre de la ciudad. Toda la información que se obtenga a través de este proceso será confidencial y solo se compartirá con la ciudad de forma conjunta.
Para continuar protegiendo Marina Lagoon e invirtiendo en el servicio comunitario para disfrutar del                                                    
lugar, ir a la playa, navegar y realizar otras actividades acuáticas para futuras generaciones por medio de:
• 
el mantenimiento del crecimiento de la vegetación y otras cuestiones de calidad del agua; y
• 
el aumento de la retención del agua de lluvia y la capacidad de control de inundaciones con el dragado de lodo y sedimentos; y
• 
la restitución de una profundidad en la laguna que sea suficiente para la navegación, recreación y soportar el caudal de lluvia;
¿Le gustaría financiar una evaluación anual de cada propiedad(es) por el monto de____, que se obtendrá del impuesto 
inmobiliario?
2.	
Esta medida pagaría una parte del dragado de Marina Lagoon para devolverle al canal la profundidad 
original para la navegación...............................................................................................................................
3.   
Esta medida ayudaría a financiar el mantenimiento anual de la limpieza y seguridad en la navegación, 
natación y otras actividades acuáticas en Marina Lagoon .............................................................................
4.	
Esta medida permitiría una mejor capacidad de control de las inundaciones en Marina Lagoon, lo que 
protegería las calles y propiedades de inundaciones locales.........................................................................
5.  
En las alcantarillas, la ciudad planea instalar dispositivos de filtrado de basura y elementos que 
contaminan antes de que ingresen en Marina Lagoon y la bahía de San Francisco.....................................
6.	
Esta medida sería un primer paso fundamental para combatir los efectos del cambio climático en Marina 
Lagoon,donde el bajo nivel de agua y las temperaturas elevadas aumentan la proliferación de algas.........
7. 
Esta propuesta podría no ser suficiente para financiar por completo el dragado de Marina Lagoon; 
es posible que se necesite una tarifa adicional para financiar este importante trabajo junto con otros 
problemas en el control del caudal de lluvia....................................................................................................
8. 
Para proteger Marina Lagoon, la ciudad abordará las dificultades del desagüe y la calidad del agua de 
manera sustentable para el medio ambiente, incluida la infraestructura ecológica........................................
9.	
Esta propuesta se destinará completamente a la restauración y mantenimiento de Marina Lagoon. El concejo 
municipal no podrá utilizarla para ninguna otra razón, ni el gobierno estatal o del condado podrán eliminarla......
10.	
Esta medida podría incluir tarifas escalonadas según proximidad a Marina Lagoon (por frente, peatonal, otros)..
11. 
This measure would help ensure safe, clean, healthy water in the creeks flowing through San Mateo to 
Marina Lagoon and the Bay, now and for future generations....................................................................
ownerid
Elija una de las siguientes opciones para completar esta encuesta en línea:
• visite www.inputlocal.com,  e ingrese: SURVEY NAME “MATEOML-1”, SURVEY CODE______; o
• escanee el código QR de la derecha con su teléfono y siga las instrucciones.
barcode
1.
Definitivamente SÍ 	
Probablemente YES 	
Probablemente NO 	
Definitivamente NO
   Más 	        Un poco   No         Un poco    Menos
   probable  más          influye   menos      probable 
                   probable                probable
21 of 24

--- page 22 ---
The following public comments were received after the
packet was published and by 4pm the day of meeting.

22 of 24


--- page 23 ---
From: Michael Harris

Sent: Wednesday, March 9, 2022 3:51 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Commission Meeting

To the San Mateo Sustainability & lofrastructure Commission

Mateo, CA - Official We...

coast the City af San ivdaten’s Sustainability ane

Srasstoyt

Commission Members:

We will not be able to attend via Zoom the Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commission meeting tonight. We have to attend a Shiva.

In a sense we should be holding a similar mourning for our rapidly aging
and maybe in the future, death of our beloved Marina Lagoon.

We reside on the Foster City side near the southerly end.

It is slowly becoming a recreational and environmental disaster. | see on

San Mateo’s website that it is your Commission's “... duty of the Sustainability and
Infrastructure Commission, as an advisory body to the City Council, to advise on policies and
programs related to environmental sustainability, transportation and infrastructure

Please stand up to your above described responsibilities. It would seem to
be even a much larger moral responsibility.

23 of 24


--- page 24 ---
The wildlife photographers, bicyclists, walkers, wheelchair bound, bike
riders, crew regattas, egrets, kayakers, pelicans, ducks, and even mud
hens will applaud your efforts. Others might even include the geese.

Thanks for reading and hopefully positive response.

Michael Harris

24 of 24
