source: packet.pdf
sha256: fbda190bd5b94e948d6b9197550bc29e4ee735cb1000c22b50efbc554cded0a8
pages: 11
ocr_pages: 4
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting
January 19, 2021
5:30 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS – 
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN­PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: Tuesday, January 19, 2020 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone:  (408) 638‐0968      
Conference ID: 886 2229 6836     Passcode: 879281
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the Council's consideration of these items.
1.
State Route 92/State Route 82 El Camino Real Interchange Landscape Improvements Project – Informational
Update
Receive an informational update and provide feedback for the conceptual design of the State Route 92/State
Route 82 El Camino Real Interchange Landscape Improvements Project.
2.
Pavement Management and Smooth Streets Program – Informational Update
Receive an informational update on the Pavement Management and Smooth Streets Programs.
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the Council's consideration of this item. Following the meeting a report of action
from Closed Session will be provided if required.
3.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9)
Name of case: Debra LaPalm v. City of San Mateo,  San Mateo Superior Court Case No. 19‐CIV‐02135
ADJOURNMENT
Continue on next page.
­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­
1 of 11

--- page 2 ---
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the
agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522‐7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522‐7040, Monday‐Friday, 8 a.m. ‐ 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel‐San‐Mateo‐Live‐Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted
by default. When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the
appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638‐0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the
item of interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and
provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to
participate in this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522‐7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours
prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 11

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 20-3837
TO:
City Council 
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
State Route 92/State Route 82 El Camino Real Interchange Landscape Improvements Project – Informational Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an informational update and provide feedback for the conceptual design of the State Route 92/State Route 82 El 
Camino Real Interchange Landscape Improvements Project. 
BACKGROUND:
Roadway improvements to reconfigure the State Route (SR) 92/SR 82 El Camino Real highway interchange were completed 
in August 2018 as part of a joint project between the City of San Mateo, San Mateo County Transportation Authority, and 
California State Department of Transportation (Caltrans). The agencies now desire to complete the next phase of the 
project, which involves restoration of landscaping within the interchange limits (Attachment 1). The City is currently under 
contract with BKF Engineers to design and develop construction documents for the landscape project. 
The purpose of the landscaping project is to create an attractive interchange that meets Caltrans requirements and 
minimizes the resources needed to maintain it.  The landscaping project includes clearing and grubbing, light grading and 
contouring, ground cover and tree planting, and irrigation improvements. The City is also proposing landscaping along the 
sound wall in the northeast portion of the cloverleaf that faces the Hayward Park neighborhood.  The proposed landscape 
design will prioritize safety and security, ease of maintenance, and provide an inviting landscape screen for the sound wall.   
Public Works staff implemented a multipronged outreach approach to obtain feedback on the landscaping design concept 
options for the interchange and soundwall screening.  Outreach began with a public month-long survey posted on the 
City’s various advertisement channels (i.e. NextDoor, webpages, etc.) in order to reach the general public, business 
owners, and residents. The survey asked respondents to identify which neighborhood they lived in, how often they saw 
the interchange, preferences on landscaping, and other comments.  Survey reminders were posted on the same 
advertisement channels a week prior to closing the survey in order to maximize response and opportunity for feedback.      
With 173 survey respondents, the majority were residents who see the interchange frequently or almost every day in 
passing.  Respondents generally showed preferences for colorful flowering plants and commented about the importance 
of native trees that require little maintenance and low water usage.  
In addition to the survey, a special notice was mailed to residents and businesses within the vicinity of the project to 
provide another opportunity for input at or prior to the December 9th, 2020 Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission 
(SIC) meeting.  The proposed landscape concept guided by survey responses was presented at the SIC meeting, and input 
was requested from the Commission and the public to supplement the survey results.  
3 of 11

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Overall, the SIC provided positive feedback regarding the conceptual design, especially related to the incorporation of 
Caltrans guidelines, survey response preferences, and maintenance needs and limitations into the plant selection.  
The design team is in the final stages of concept refinement in keeping with the project schedule and to proceed with 
construction drawings.  The proposed landscape concept (Attachment 2) will be presented at the City Council study 
session for further feedback since the SR 92/SR 82 highway interchange serves as a gateway to the City of San Mateo.  
Staff anticipates completing design and advertising for construction in Fall 2021. Completion of the project is anticipated 
Fall 2022. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this informational update.   
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action of receiving informational updates and providing feedback is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an 
organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) 
The landscape restoration received environmental clearance when the project level initial study and negative declaration 
for the highway improvements project was approved in May 2014. Environmental clearance for the landscape work will be 
re-validated during the design phase. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Project Location Map
Att 2 – Proposed Landscape Concept
STAFF CONTACT
Jana Cadiz, Assistant Engineer
jcadiz@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7575
Cathi Zammit, Engineering Manager
czammit@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7306
4 of 11

--- page 5 ---
‘

*,

‘ '<
un

‘in ’

Na
. “
>

a4 H
. Se
6) NI 'S
» a
weal +) «. “er
*
Oe b
o

eure
‘ . - ie “" wy Uthg ~ Ne . - ;
au * oe A \ ‘a = i
at Ii: S| , ) ne NS
PROJECT LOCAFI
J 4 ‘ _ : * - 4

'
'
.
'
¢
'
$

 —
—

~

yy oul

=

~



--- page 6 ---
Coast Live Oak +
Western Redbud Tree
Valley Oak Trees
Bloodgood London Plane Tree
Existing Trees to Remain
Large Specimen Shrubs
Evergreen groundcovers
Grasses + Perennials
Decorative Cobble
Existing Swale to Remain
PROPOSED CONCEPT
California Incense Cedar Tree
6 of 11

--- page 7 ---
Evergreen
Groundcover

Large Specimen Shrub

Existing Native
Trees to Remain

Decorative Gravel

Coast Live Oak and Valley
> Oak Interchange Trees

PERSPECTIVE A —— CITY OF SAN MATEO ———— EB STATE ROUTE 92



--- page 8 ---
—L. Decorative Gravel:

Western Redbud Valley Oak:
Corner Accent Tree Coast Live Oak
Interchange Trees

Evergreen
Groundcover Accent Planting

at Corner

‘Bloodgood’ London Plane
‘Street Tree

PERSPECTIVE B —— CITY OF SAN MATEO ——— EL CAMINO REAL


--- page 9 ---
{ i cake

auanesit

—Creeping Fig

FAA se qa, ¥ e— ~Existing Trees.to Remar

‘
‘
D

’

i California Incense Cedar.

itd

\-—-

PERSPECTIVE C —— CITY OF SAN MATEO ——— HAYWARD PARK SQUND WALL


--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 20-3798
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Pavement Management and Smooth Streets Program – Informational Update 
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an informational update on the Pavement Management and Smooth Streets Programs.
BACKGROUND:
The City owns and maintains pavement assets consisting of approximately 210 miles of streets, bike paths, and alleyways. 
The Pavement Management Program (PMP) is managed by Public Works and implements maintenance and capital 
improvements for these important assets that cannot be performed by the City’s field maintenance crews.  The goals of 
the PMP are to maintain the City’s streets with a Pavement Condition Index (PCI) above 70, minimize deferred 
maintenance, reduce the failed streets inventory, and optimize the use of available funds. While the PMP focuses on the 
management of the City’s entire pavement assets, a separate Smooth Streets Program (SSP) was created in 2013. The SSP 
is a focused initiative with special funding to repair failed streets, an effort that was identified by the Council as a priority.
Pavement Management Program
In the past five years, the PMP has resulted in the implementation of improvements to approximately 30 miles of streets 
using various treatment methods, including 17 miles treated with crack seal, 10 miles slurry sealed, and three miles 
resurfaced. The PMP uses the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) StreetSaver program, which provides 
recommendations for project scopes based on optimizing available budget to advance the goals of the PMP.  The project 
scopes are coordinated with other planned City and utility projects to minimize impacts to the public.
The City was awarded the MTC “P-TAP” grant in 2020, which funded the biennial citywide inspection of pavement assets 
to measure the current PCI for all City roads and evaluate potential funding scenarios for future years and the anticipated 
outcomes.  The citywide inspection was completed in September 2020. This updated information is being used to evaluate 
the upcoming maintenance, rehabilitation, and reconstruction projects. 
Smooth Streets Program
Street segments with a PCI of less than 25 are considered “failed” by common industry practice, and generally require 
expensive, full street reconstruction to restore. The City’s SSP is based on a 2013 assessment of the City’s network and 
includes 17 miles of streets in this failed category plus an additional five miles of “at-risk” streets with a PCI between 25 
and 39, which were in poor condition and at risk of becoming failed.  Of the 17 miles of failed streets, 10 miles have been 
restored and two miles are currently in construction. The program has also completed restoration of one mile of the “at-
risk” streets. The remaining five miles of failed streets and four miles of at-risk streets in the Smooth Streets Program are 
currently scheduled for completion by 2025 at an estimated cost of approximately $29 million.  Cost inflation, difficult soil 
conditions, and the amount of concrete improvements within the project limits are some of the factors affecting the 
increased cost trends.
10 of 11

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Since 2016, the SSP has been funded primarily by voter-approved Measure S funds.  In February 2020, the City allocated 
$21.6 million of bonds to the SSP that were secured with Measure S revenues.  Other funding sources such as SB1, 
Measure A, and Measure W are used to fund both the SSP and PMP.  Historically, a portion of gas taxes, general funds, and 
grants have also been allocated to the PMP.  Keeping the PCI greater than 70, one of the goals of the PMP, is important to 
allow for more discretionary use of certain funding sources, such as Measure W, that would otherwise need to be spent on 
improving pavement conditions.
The staff presentation will elaborate on the topics above, including pavement restoration methods and strategies used to 
maintain our system of roadways, current pavement conditions, progress to date, and upcoming activities for both 
programs.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this informational item. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action of receiving an informational update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Cathi Zammit, Engineering Manager
czammit@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7306
11 of 11