source: packet.pdf
sha256: 767a528876d4350725e5ce898e89f077d8108260ebb716b2ea1a9b607dbb6f6c
pages: 13
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting
March 15, 2021
5:30 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: Monday, March 15, 2021 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 810 0790 2236
Passcode: 115644
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the Council's consideration of these items.
1.
Small Business Recovery and Diversity and Equity Taskforces – Composition and Work Plans
Provide guidance to staff on the key objectives and possible composition of a Small Business Recovery Taskforce
and a Diversity and Equity Taskforce that were suggested by Council during the annual goal setting session.
2.
City Council Strategic Plan – Draft Review
Review staff feedback on proposed work plans and resource requirements to address the City Council’s priorities
for fiscal year 2021-22 and recommend any adjustments to the draft 2021-22 Strategic Plan.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
1 of 13

--- page 2 ---
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your
comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 13

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 21-4342
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
March 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Small Business Recovery and Diversity and Equity Taskforces – Composition and Work Plans
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide guidance to staff on the key objectives and possible composition of a Small Business Recovery Taskforce and a 
Diversity and Equity Taskforce that were suggested by Council during the annual goal setting session.
BACKGROUND:
At the City Council goal setting session, held on January 30, 2021, the City Council discussed the formation of two 
taskforces: a Small Business Recovery Taskforce and a Diversity and Equity Taskforce. This report outlines the staff work 
that has been completed to date in support of each of the subject areas and requests further guidance from the City 
Council on the potential work plan and composition of each of the proposed taskforces.
Small Business Recovery
Since the start of the pandemic, the City has devoted significant staff and financial resources toward supporting our 
business community. The following section outlines a high-level summary of the work that has been done since March 
2020:

Contributed $820,000 in direct financial assistance to businesses through the SMC Strong grant program 
($400,000), the Restaurant, Brewery, and Winery Relief Grant program ($300,000), and rental support for 
childcare centers ($120,000).

Direct outreach to over 1,600 businesses to make sure they were aware of financial assistance programs and other 
important business resources. A total of 9 staff were redeployed at the peak of the pandemic to assist with 
outreach.

Created a COVID business resource website, which is updated frequently, providing a one-stop guide to available 
financial assistance programs for businesses and employees as well as information on important policy topics such 
as commercial eviction moratoriums and protections (https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4258/Information-for-
Businesses-and-Employees).

Created a business e-newsletter with an 800-business subscriber list created using contact information obtained 
from business outreach efforts and the City’s Business License database. The e-newsletter is sent out whenever 
there is key information to share. Since April 2020, 38 e-newsletters have been sent by staff to the business 
community.

Launched a Temporary Outdoor Dining program allowing businesses to use parking spaces and closed streets at 
no-cost for outdoor business operations. The City has expended upwards of $300,000 to date on barricades for 
parklets and street closures and staff overtime for installation.

Adopted a commercial eviction moratorium that was in effect from March 2020 through September 2020 to 
support businesses unable to make rent payments. 
3 of 13

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

Adopted moratoriums on the enforcement of minimum parking space and zoning requirements to allow for 
outdoor business operations in private shopping centers.

Created a permit program to allow fitness businesses and youth camps to use City parks for outdoor operations.

Provide ongoing in-person business visits and monitoring of outdoor operations to communicate available 
resources, resolve conflicts between businesses, and ensure compliance with COVID safety protocols.

Continuous redeployment of staff time from multiple departments to assist with business outreach throughout the 
pandemic. 
In addition to these efforts, staff has worked closely with stakeholder groups to coordinate business recovery efforts. 
Jennifer Chen, the City’s Economic Development Manager, serves on the Board of the Chamber of Commerce and attends 
all meetings of the Downtown San Mateo Association and the North B Merchants Association. At these meetings, she 
provides regular updates on the City’s business recovery efforts.  Jennifer also serves on the Advisory Board for the 
Northern California Small Business Development Center (SBDC) and helps advise on the types of programs the SBDC 
develops for small businesses education in our region. Additionally, she coordinates with NOVAWorks, a regional 
workforce board focused on local workforce and small business needs, and helps plan and promote business workshops as 
a member of the Silicon Valley Economic Development Alliance.
Small Business Recovery Taskforce Recommendation
Staff recommends that a potential Small Business Recovery Taskforce operate at the staff-level and be comprised of key 
stakeholder organizations serving the business community, such as the Chamber of Commerce, Downtown San Mateo 
Association, San Mateo County Economic Development Association (SAMCEDA), and NOVAWorks.  The taskforce would 
best operate as a forum for sharing of information between these organizations on resources and planned initiatives to 
facilitate coordination between the involved entities and prevent duplication of efforts.  Additionally, staff recommends 
that Council form a sub-committee that can liaise with the taskforce and make recommendations to the full Council on 
efforts the City can take to support our small businesses.
Diversity and Equity
At the goal setting session, the City Council discussion around the formation of a Diversity and Equity Taskforce was 
focused on three areas: representation on Boards and Commissions, hiring and staff development, and community 
engagement. The following section outlines the work staff is doing in each of these areas. 
Boards and Commissions
In order to encourage a diverse set of applicants, the City Clerk’s Office advertises all vacancies on commissions broadly 
through a number of channels including posting on the City’s website, social media accounts, in e-newsletters, and on 
flyers put out and up at City Hall and in various City facilities. They also send notifications to current sitting Commissioners 
(they are the City’s best recruiters), previous recent applicants for the commission, and to recent City Services Academy 
graduates. They occasionally place a small panel ad in the newspaper. Since 2017, the look of the recruitment 
announcement flyer was changed to encourage diverse applicants by including pictures of a diverse population. In 2018, a 
database was started of the houses of worship in San Mateo and flyers were sent to them to post. In 2020, the database of 
houses of faith was expanded to be more complete. 
There has been discussion in the past about a City Charter provision being a hinderance to reaching diversity goals in that 
it requires the same criteria as running for Council: any applicant must be a registered voter in the City of San Mateo. 
There has been some thought expressed that a residency requirement makes sense, but a voter registration requirement 
may restrict which residents would apply. 
In 2017, the City Clerk’s office initiated a Board and Commission Demographic survey. This was out of a desire to evaluate 
how well the City’s advisory bodies reflect the diversity of our entire community and to establish a baseline for comparison 
going forward so that trends could be analyzed.  The intention was to begin to do this survey on a regular basis. The City 
Clerk’s office reissued the survey on Friday, February 19, 2021 with a deadline of Friday, March 12, 2021 to gather 
responses. The Clerk’s office is doing a robust follow up with board members and commissioners to ensure a high 
response rate. The results will be presented to Council, with a comparison to the 2017 statistics, at a future Council 
4 of 13

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
meeting. 
Hiring and Staff Development
Every two years, the Human Resources Department analyses the race, ethnicity and gender makeup of our workforce and 
compares it against the labor market. A link to this Equal Employment Opportunity Plan (EEOP) Utilization Report is on the 
City’s website at: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/132/Human-Resources. In the past six years, the City’s workforce has 
become more representative of the people it serves, except for under-representation of Asian females in technician 
positions (e.g., Building Inspection, Information Technology, Police Records), females in Service/Maintenance (e.g., 
Landscape/Street/Sewer Maintenance), and White males in Administrative Support.
Activities City departments use to support the hiring of a workforce reflective of the community include:

Regular attendance by Human Resources and operating department representatives at Diversity Career Fairs, 
Community College hiring events, High School career exploration fairs, and National Night Out booths to promote 
public careers to a wide audience.

Targeted advertising of open positions with affinity group organizations (e.g., Society for Women Engineers) to 
reach broader groups of potential applicants.

Speaking at the College of San Mateo’s Criminal Justice classes about law enforcement careers.

Paid internships to inspire consideration of public service as a fulfilling career choice while providing income and 
marketable work experience.

A Police Cadet Program for individuals aged 14 to 20 interested in a law enforcement career. 

Regularly posting on the City’s digital and social media channels about job opportunities, including a new 
recruitment video featuring a diversity of City employees highlighting their public service careers. 
A new Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Committee was recently formed with employee representatives from all City 
departments and SMC Fire. The internal staff DEI Committee will identify and implement additional activities to promote a 
supportive, positive and inclusive work environment. Assistance with continuing the improvement of our recruitment, 
hiring, onboarding and retention practices from a DEI perspective will be one of its priorities.
Community Engagement
To promote community engagement around diversity, equity and inclusion, the City hosted a three-part series of virtual 
events called San Mateo Together in December as part of the 2020 United Against Hate Week. The City hired Peninsula 
Conflict Resolution Center (PCRC) to facilitate these interactive and engaging dialogues during which participants reflected 
on who we are as a community and how we can become more tolerant. Over 80 participants attended the first event that 
included short films and conversations about race, implicit bias, diversity, equity and inclusion. PCRC also provided two 
trainings for the public on implicit bias and cross-cultural communications; over 50 participants attended each training. 
Attendees noted appreciation for the City hosting these events and the ability to have facilitated dialogue with other 
community members.  
While the San Mateo Together community conversation series was separate from the Police Department’s ongoing Real 
Talk San Mateo series, both of these series build upon efforts to engage the public on issues related to diversity, equity 
and inclusion. The San Mateo Together series required significant staff time and funding to support PCRC’s trainers, 
facilitators and involvement. Additionally, the City spent roughly $15,000 on the contract with PCRC for their work 
facilitating and hosting trainings. Staff is evaluating the potential to host future workshops and recommends they be tied 
to current events or align with existing activities, such as Black History Month or United Against Hate Week, to build upon 
public interest.  
A high-level summary of the City’s primary public-facing work on diversity, equity and inclusion over the last year, 
including City Council adopted resolutions, is available on the new Diversity, Equity and Inclusion web page: 
www.cityofsanmateo.org/dei.
5 of 13

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Diversity and Equity Taskforce Formation
Further direction is needed from City Council on the potential membership, work plan, and duration of a Diversity and 
Equity Taskforce. Staff suggests that the City Council could consider a similar format as the General Plan Subcommittee, 
and include representatives of City Council, Boards and Commissions, as well as non-profit partners and/or the community 
at large. This would taskforce would be created by action of the City Council and would therefore be subject to the Brown 
Act. Key areas of focus could be evaluating the Boards and Commission recruitment and selection process and developing 
a plan for additional community engagement efforts. In terms of hiring and staff development, staff recommends that the 
taskforce receive regular updates on the work of the City’s internal staff Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There would be no direct impact on the General Fund from the creation of these taskforces. However, implementation of 
taskforce recommendations may result in the need for direct expenditures.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The formation of taskforces is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government administrative activity which does 
not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the 
environment (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5)).
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager
kkleinbaum@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7153
6 of 13

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 21-4302
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
March 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
City Council Strategic Plan – Draft Review 
RECOMMENDATION:
Review staff feedback on proposed work plans and resource requirements to address the City Council’s priorities for fiscal 
year 2021-22 and recommend any adjustments to the draft 2021-22 Strategic Plan.
BACKGROUND:
The City Council goal setting process includes a three-step deliberation process resulting in the adoption of a Strategic Plan 
that allows for multi-year resource planning. The first step of the process was a City Council workshop, held on January 30, 
2021. At this workshop, the City Council reviewed the adopted fiscal year 2020-21 Strategic Plan to remove completed 
items, adjust the priority levels, and propose new objectives to add to the Strategic Plan for fiscal year 2021-22. 
The second step of the process, which will take place at the March 15th City Council study session, is a review of proposed 
work plan items to address each of the objectives in the draft Strategic Plan and staff’s estimate of any additional 
resources required for implementation and the possible sources of funding. Based on this information, City Council will 
have an opportunity to suggest modifications to the proposed objectives and/or the assigned priority. The draft Strategic 
Plan for the fiscal year 2021-22 with the proposed work plan items and required resources is included as Attachment 1. 
Highlighted in yellow on the draft Strategic Plan are a few items that staff has flagged for City Council consideration to 
possibly adjust the wording of the objective, change the designated priority, or remove the item from the Strategic Plan. In 
addition, as a separate agenda item on the same Study Session meeting, staff is requesting additional direction on two of 
the items proposed in the Strategic Plan, the formation of a Small Business Recovery Committee and a Diversity and Equity 
Taskforce.
The final step in the process will be City Council approval of the Strategic Plan with the proposed objectives for the 2021-
22 fiscal year, which is anticipated to be a consent calendar item on the April 5th City Council agenda.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this agenda item. The priority objectives identified by the Council will be taken into 
consideration as part of the development of the fiscal year 2021-22 budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This strategic planning meeting is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government administrative activity which 
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on 
the environment (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5)).
7 of 13

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Draft Strategic Plan Fiscal Year 2021-22
STAFF CONTACT
Denise Garcia, Management Analyst I
dgarcia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7003
8 of 13

--- page 9 ---
Fiscal Year 2021‐22 City Council Objectives
Council Focus 
Area
Strategic 
Initiatives
Council Objectives
Priority Proposed Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2021‐22
Resources Required and Other Notes
Reconstruct all failed streets in San Mateo by 2024
A
Complete construction of Phase II contract and design of Phases III and IV contracts.
No additional resources needed as project is currently funded through the capital 
improvement program.
Replace all remaining high voltage circuits to improve safety and 
reliability of the street light system
A
Start construction of Phase 3 circuits designed during the FY 2020‐21 and complete design of  
circuits 8 (Dartmouth), 9 (Baywood Ave), and 10 (Garfield Street). 
No additional resources needed as project is currently funded through the capital 
improvement program.
Evaluate options and funding sources to dredge the Marina
A
Bring Funding Analysis and options to Council for direction; consider additional needs analysis 
(e.g., update 2004 Master Plan), opinion polling, community engagement, fee study and 
Proposition 218 process.
$250,000 in Measure S funds are needed for the first phase of a stormwater 
condition study. Future capital funding may be needed depending upon the 
outcomes of the study. Consider changing objective  to "Evaluate funding options for 
storm system activities and improvements, including dredging the Marina Lagoon."
Remove North Shoreview from FEMA Flood Assessment
A
Continue construction with focus on levee improvements and trash capture device installation, 
followed by pump station construction.  Construction completion anticipated April 2023.
Project is funded, does not require any additional resource allocation.
Fund and deliver the Clean Water Program
A
Continue construction of the WWTP Expansion Project, UFES, and other sewer collection system 
improvements. Finalize potential funding through the State Revolving Fund.  
Project is funded, does not require any additional resource allocation.
Meet the 100% trash reduction mandate
A
Finalize approvals and begin design and construction on the Poplar Golf Course Trash Capture 
Device.  Begin evaluation, selection, and installation of small trash capture devices.  Consider 
feasibility of beginning enhanced trash inspection and street sweeping programs.  Participate in 
review and commenting for the new C.10 Trash Provisions of the Municipal Regional Stormwater 
Permit 3.0.
No additional resources required at this time. However, staff would need to hire an 
additional Environmental Compliance Inspector (approx. $132K) if an enhanced 
trash inspection and street sweeping program is recommended. This position would 
be funded by the Sewer and Solid Waste Funds and would be an ongoing expense.
Develop an anti‐littering trash and cigarette butt outreach campaign
A
Expand the Team Up to Clean Up Program to include an anti‐littering campaign, work with 
businesses to take a signed pledge, and work with community and property managers on litter 
awareness and supporting litter cleanups. 
If additional Environmental Compliance Inspector position is approved (see 100% 
trash capture reduction), no additional resources would be needed to expand this 
program. 
Evaluate the feasibility of a Green Fleet by 2030
A
Review past‐due replacement vehicles and recommend replacement options; determine 
replacement strategies for vehicles due for replacement by 2030.  Evaluate future CNG facility 
maintenance costs and potential for installation of additional EV Infrastructure at City facilities. 
No additional resources needed at this time. However, consultant support would be 
required for a future evaluation to assess the infrastructure/vehicle charging needs. 
This is estimated at one‐time cost of $150K. Grant and other funding opportunities 
will be explored. 
Analyze potential to produce potable drinking water from the Clean 
Water Program
B
Continue to study options for advanced wastewater treatment for reservoir water augmentation 
and direct potable reuse with the SFPUC, SVCW/Redwood City, BAWSCA, and Cal Water.
Does not require any additional resource allocation.
Resilience
Stewardship of 
Infrastructure
Reliability
Environmental 
Responsibility
1
9 of 13

--- page 10 ---
Fiscal Year 2021‐22 City Council Objectives
Council Focus 
Area
Strategic 
Initiatives
Council Objectives
Priority Proposed Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2021‐22
Resources Required and Other Notes
Expedite traffic management improvements based on public input 
received from Neighborhood Traffic Forums, Neighborhood Traffic 
Management Program, and best practices and enhance 
transparency of outcomes and frequencies of Council status reports.
A
Finalize the Laurelwood Neighborhood Traffic Action Plan, finalize Neighborhood Traffic 
Management Program update, develop a Local Roadway Safety Plan (Caltrans requirement) and 
identify data‐driven traffic improvement projects and seek funding for implementation. 
Does not require any additional resource allocation.
Minimize impacts to residents from train horn noise at City at‐grade 
crossings
A
Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board (PCJPB)/Caltrain to complete design of railroad 
improvements at 4th & 5th Avenue grade crossings, and advertise for construction.  City to 
complete design of improvements within City Right‐of‐Way and coordinate construction schedule 
with Caltrain construction. 
Project is funded, does not require any additional resource allocation.
Minimize parking impacts throughout the City
A
Utilize Parking Management System to evaluate Downtown parking usage patterns and determine 
potential parking policy updates. Begin CPID Zoning Code revisions to appropriately allocate 
parking for Downtown projects.  
Additional one‐time funding needed of approximately $50K needed from the 
Advance Planning Fund to complete the CPID code updates.
Identify streets and intersections experiencing major congestion due 
to regional traffic and identify effective measures to mitigate the 
impact on traffic flow and the adjacent neighborhoods
A
Continue to work with C/CAG and SMCTA on the US 101/92 Short Term Area Plan and Direct 
Connector project. Begin design for Fashion Island/Norfolk intersection reconstruction to assist 
with alleviating congestion along the 19th Avenue‐Fashion Island Blvd. corridor.
Does not require any additional resource allocation.
Continue Safe Streets neighborhood street closures
A
Continue to support City Council's direction on implementation of the Safe Streets program. 
Explore options to transition Safe Streets initiative to longer‐term improvements after COVID‐19 
restrictions end. 
Currently spending $40K per year in operating costs (General Fund) to maintain Safe 
Streets, which reduces funding and ability to complete other streets maintenance 
work. An additional $20K is needed to replace damaged materials if the effort is 
extended into FY 2021‐22. Funding for design and construction of a permanent Safe 
Streets program is estimated to be a one‐time expense of $100K. Funding source: 
Measure A, Measure S, and General Fund. 
Implement bicycle and pedestrian projects and programs that 
address safety and align with adopted City plans 
A
Design six high‐priority bicycle facilities identified in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan. Evaluate speed 
reduction in school zones, prepare policy for Council approval, and implement in locations that 
meet applicable regulatory criteria. Continue to seek funding for the design and construction of 
projects identified in the Master Plans and for a Complete Streets Plan to develop multimodal 
design standards and priority safety projects. Implement Safe Routes to School program to 
support and encourage students and families to choose to walk or bike to school.
Design of bicycle facilities are funded through Measure A. Funding of approximately 
$100K per year will be needed for a Safe Routes to School program, which includes 
costs for a part‐time coordinator. Possible funding sources: Measure S, General 
Fund.
Implement Library Space Master Plan
A
Complete site visit, design new information desk and layout of entrance, purchase new desk and 
other furniture. 
Project is funded, does not require any additional resource allocation.
Create COVID‐19 children's programming
A
Continue LEAP program through end of pandemic; program anticipated to be phased out by Fall 
2021.  Other recreation programs will continue to be modified based on health guidelines. 
No additional resources needed beyond the proposed FY 2021‐22 budget. 
Create a senior library outreach program with home delivery for 
homebound seniors
A?
After piloting delivery program in FY 2020‐21, Library will assess long‐term feasibility of this 
program post‐pandemic.
In‐depth analysis needed after the pilot to determine resource requirements for long‐
term implementation.
Neighborhoods
Community 
Services
Quality of Life
2
10 of 13

--- page 11 ---
Fiscal Year 2021‐22 City Council Objectives
Council Focus 
Area
Strategic 
Initiatives
Council Objectives
Priority Proposed Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2021‐22
Resources Required and Other Notes
Enhance police accountability, transparency, and efficiency and 
expand on coordinating police services with mental health and 
social services
A
Integrate mental health clinician services into operations and increase officer training related to 
de‐escalation, crisis response, etc.  Implement dashboard cameras on patrol vehicles to increase 
transparency.  Implement stop data collection/reporting requirements of the Racial and Identity 
Profiling Act (RIPA).
Estimated cost for increased training is $80,000 and estimated annual cost for 
dashboard cameras and data storage is $100,000. These expenses would  be funded 
by the General Fund.
Assess ability to strengthen existing red tag ordinance 
A
Bolster use of existing suite of enforcement tools, including financial and criminal penalties, to 
improve compliance for repeat violators of SMMC Chapter 7.50.
Does not require any additional resource allocation.
Implement the Safe and Secure Neighborhoods Initiative
A
Continue to evaluate technology options to enhance neighborhood safety, including ongoing 
deployment of Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) technology at strategic fixed locations 
throughout the City.
Estimated annual cost for Flock fixed ALPR is $50,000 which is already been 
incorporated into FY 2021‐22 Budget.
Host a community conversation on policing in San Mateo
A
Host Real Talk Sessions (monthly); Coffee with a cop (quarterly); Virtual Ride Alongs (bi‐monthly); 
and other activities to promote communciation.  Launch new Community Policing Academy to 
enhance understanding of the Police Department.
Does not require any additional resource allocation.
Explore banning smoking in commercial areas
B
Implementation of this item will be deferred to a future fiscal year.
No resources to be allocated this fiscal year.
Create a Diversity and Equity taskforce 
A
Form a taskforce to address equity and diversity on City Boards and Commissions and expand 
community forums and trainings.
Does not require any additional resource allocation. However,  depending on the 
workplan of the taskforce, this will require a diversion of staff time from the City 
Clerk's Office and the City Manager's Office from other work plan items, including 
business recovery and other COVID relief efforts.
Implement the Climate Action Plan and work to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions
A
Continue implementation of new measures from the 2020 CAP including commercial energy 
efficiency benchmarking,  expansion of EV infrastructure, and explore reach codes for the 2022 
Building Code update.
Does not require any additional resource allocation.
Create a racial equity community art project
A
Assemble team of community and CAC members to explore and plan a community art project to 
present to City Council.
Does not require any additional resource allocation, art to be funded from Art in 
Public Places Fund.
Pursue development of additional housing including affordable and 
workforce housing
A
Continue to look for opportunities to increase supply of affordable and workforce housing, 
including surplus City sites downtown and acquisition/rehab of existing housing. Continue to look 
for additional funding sources.
Does not require additional resource allocation.
Provide update on the City's communication strategy, including 
efforts to reach hard to reach segments of the population
A?
Hold a study session to present the City's communication strategy.
Does not require any additional resource allocation. Study session planned for April 
2021. Item may not require further action in FY 2021‐22. Recommend removal from 
Strategic Plan.
Evaluate potential mandates regarding composting in multi‐family 
dwellings
B
Continue to work with the South Bayside Waste Management Authority (SBWMA) and Recology 
to increase organic compost collection in multifamily dwellings per the requirements of State 
Senate Bill 1383. The SBWMA's Organic to Energy Pilot Program converting the organic debris in 
multi‐family dwellings and the commercial sectors' garbage waste streams into clean energy is 
scheduled to begin in late spring early summer.
Does not require any additional resource allocation.
Consider the adoption of wage theft protections
C
Staff will continue to monitor the adoption and implementation of wage theft protections in other 
municipalities.
Does not require any additional resource allocation.
Public Health 
and Safety
Quality of Life
Social 
Leadership
Framing the 
Future
3
11 of 13

--- page 12 ---
Fiscal Year 2021‐22 City Council Objectives
Council Focus 
Area
Strategic 
Initiatives
Council Objectives
Priority Proposed Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2021‐22
Resources Required and Other Notes
Implement the Central Park Master Plan
A
Preferred playground design selected and initiation of construction documents underway; 
fundraising for Fallen Heroes Memorial on‐going. 
Does not require any additional resource allocation.
Update the General Plan
A
Staff will update City Council on General Plan (GP) status at least quarterly and increase outreach 
efforts by completing a Citywide informational mailing and conducting a statistically valid 
community survey on the General Plan. Conversion of exisisting land uses into housing will be an 
integral part of the GP update, particularly with respect to the Housing Element. 
The combined cost of the mailing and survey is approximately $70K and would be 
funded by the Advance Planning Fund.  Door‐to‐door outreach had been suggested 
for consideration at the workshop, but staff does not recommend that because it 
would require the hiring and training of several new staff members and would 
materially add to the cost and time planned for the General Plan Update.  This 
would also be complicated by the pandemic.
Develop a funding strategy for existing infrastructure plans
A
Develop known and potential funding sources for existing master plans and present identifed 
alternatives to City Council.
Does not require any additional resource allocation.
Evaluate appropriate frequency for standardized and routine 
statistically‐valid community surveys
A
Hold a study session to discuss frequency for a community survey and integration of surveys into 
the General Plan process.
A statistically‐valid community survey costs roughly $30,000 per survey and would 
be funded from the General Fund, unless it is specific to the General Plan.
Increase public awareness of the community benefits from 
development projects
A?
Add Community Benefits sections to Agenda Reports and What's Happening web pages to 
increase awareness of development related community benfits. 
Does not require any additional resource allocation.  Item may not require further 
action in FY 2021‐22. Recommend removal from Strategic Plan.
Review Municipal Code provisions related to development review 
process and identify opportunities for streamlining
A
CDD: Continue to make revisions to known code errors/ambiguities, reevaluate 
application/implementation of existing codes, continue to work on major code changes already 
underway, plan for critical substantive code changes not already underway for FY 2022‐23.
Public Works: Begin the update of engineering standard details, specifications, and Municipal 
Code sections, and develop guidelines and procedures to streamline development reviews for 
work in the public right‐of‐way.
CDD: Does not require any additional resource allocation for FY 2021‐22, but will in 
future years.
Public Works: This is a multi‐year effort and will require $100K in funds for 
consulting services which can be funded from the Construction Services Fund in FY 
2021‐22. An additional $200K will be needed for updates to standard details and 
specifications, which can be funded through the capital improvement program in FY 
2021‐22. 
Plan for the downtown grade separations and long‐term train 
corridor improvements
B
Given the B priority, development of RFP/RFQ for Long‐Term Grade Separation Plan to be 
deferred to FY 2022‐23. 
No resources to be allocated this fiscal year.
Strategic 
Planning
Framing the 
Future
4
12 of 13

--- page 13 ---
Fiscal Year 2021‐22 City Council Objectives
Council Focus 
Area
Strategic 
Initiatives
Council Objectives
Priority Proposed Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2021‐22
Resources Required and Other Notes
Create additional parking supply for Downtown San Mateo
A
Obtain building permits and start construction of the new 5th Avenue Garage in Downtown San 
Mateo.
Project is funded and does not require any additional resource allocation.
Enhance the customer experience Downtown and in other 
commercial districts
A
Adopt a long‐term parklet program, evaluate possible Downtown festivals post COVID, and 
continue to monitor effectiveness of Downtown cleaning contract.
The City budgets $100,000 annually for Downtown related initiatives. Does not 
require any additional resource allocation.
Assist small businesses with economic recovery, including formation 
of a Small Business Recovery Committee
A
Form a small business recovery committee, continue outreach to small businesses on available 
financial resources, and identify other opportunities to assist with economic recovery.
Does not require any additional resource allocation but formation of a formal Brown 
Act Committee will divert staff time from City Manager's Office from direct business 
recovery efforts.
Evaluate a street closure in the Downtown on B Street 
A
Conduct stakeholder outreach and bring forward policy considerations and potential capital 
infrastructure costs for a seasonal or year‐round street closure.
Does not require any additional resource allocation. A future street closure may 
require a capital outlay for supporting infrastructure.
Evaluate Downtown parking and transit incentive programs for 
employees 
B
Evaluate options to temporarily expand Downtown parking supply while new 5th Avenue parking 
garage is under construction, which is anticipated to start in late Fall 2021.
Estimated cost for short‐term supply solutions is $200,000 which may require a 
General Fund allocation. Given the timing of the garage construction, recommend 
item to be assigned an "A" priority.
Explore options to discourage commercial vacancies 
B
Monitor efforts in other municipalities.
Does not require any additional resource allocation.
Explore the establishment of Property‐Based Improvement Districts 
(PBIDs)
B
Continue to gauge interest from Downtown property owners.
Does not require any additional resource allocation.
Eliminate the City’s unfunded pension and Other Public Employee 
Benefits (OPEB) liabilities by no later than 2050
A
The City continues to pay the full annual required contribution (ARC) for pension and OPEB. Will 
revisit pension policy as the economy recovers.
The ARC is included in the City's long‐term financial forecast and will be reflected in 
the 2021‐22 Business Plan. 
Develop portfolio options for sustained enhanced revenues
A
Present revenue enhancement options to Council at a study session in Fall 2021.
May require $30K for a statistically‐valid community survey in early 2022 to 
determine likely voter support if a revenue measure is proposed for November 2022 
ballot which would need to come from the General Fund.
Economic 
Vitality
Financial 
Sustainability
Commercial/ 
Retail Districts
5
13 of 13