Brookline.News Podcast Episode 8: Flock cameras come to Brookline, and so does a No Kings rally - Brookline.News Hi! If you want more trustworthy news about Brookline please sign up for our newsletter . Close Donate Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu Budget Business Development Economics Education Police and crime Elections Environment Equity Family Fire Department Health Housing Podcast Public safety Home and garden Neighborhoods Religion Schools Town government Transportation Seniors Features Open dropdown menu Arts Obituary listings People Recreation Resources: FYI Sports Then and Now Opinions Open dropdown menu Letters to the editor Events Open dropdown menu Stories Live About Open dropdown menu Staff and Board Advisory Council Ethics and policies Tip Drop Free Newsletter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Most popular browsers support the following keyboard shortcuts for increasing/decreasing the magnification level: Windows : Press the Ctrl and the + (plus) keys together to increase. Press the Ctrl and the – (minus) keys together to decrease. Press the Ctrl and the 0 (zero) keys together to reset the size. Mac: Press the Cmd and the + (plus) keys together to increase the size of the entire page content. Hold down the ⌥ (option) key as well to increase the font size alone. Press the Cmd and the – (minus) keys together to decrease the size of the entire page content. Hold down the ⌥ (option) key as well to decrease the font size alone. Press the Cmd and the 0 (zero) keys together to reset all content to its default size (normally 100%). Close Most popular browsers support the following keyboard shortcuts for increasing/decreasing the magnification level: Windows : Press the Ctrl and the + (plus) keys together to increase. Press the Ctrl and the – (minus) keys together to decrease. Press the Ctrl and the 0 (zero) keys together to reset the size. Mac: Press the Cmd and the + (plus) keys together to increase the size of the entire page content. Hold down the ⌥ (option) key as well to increase the font size alone. Press the Cmd and the – (minus) keys together to decrease the size of the entire page content. Hold down the ⌥ (option) key as well to decrease the font size alone. Press the Cmd and the 0 (zero) keys together to reset all content to its default size (normally 100%). Skip to content Free Newsletter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Brookline.News Professional local journalism in Brookline MA News Open dropdown menu Budget Business Development Economics Education Police and crime Elections Environment Equity Family Fire Department Health Housing Podcast Public safety Home and garden Neighborhoods Religion Schools Town government Transportation Seniors Features Open dropdown menu Arts Obituary listings People Recreation Resources: FYI Sports Then and Now Opinions Open dropdown menu Letters to the editor Events Open dropdown menu Stories Live About Open dropdown menu Staff and Board Advisory Council Ethics and policies Tip Drop Donate Open Search Search for: Search Sign Up Menu Free Newsletter Menu Free Newsletter Posted in Town government Brookline . News Podcast Episode 8: Flock cameras come to Brookline, and so does a No Kings rally by Sam Mintz October 23, 2025 March 13, 2026 Get our FREE newsletter in your inbox; now twice a week! First Name Last Name Your Email Address Sign up All fields are required; you may unsubscribe at any time. We do not sell our email list. On Episode 8 of the Brookline . News Podcast, editor Sam Mintz and Brookline Interactive Group executive director Jessica Smyser talk about the latest news, including a new form of local surveillance, a No Kings rally in Coolidge Corner, and a Brookline boy’s rise to start a successful shaving company. To listen, click the play button below, find us on your favorite podcast platform , or see instructions for RSS subscription here Our podcast this week is sponsored by Amy Lipton Real Estate. Amy is a local resident and award-winning Realtor at Coldwell Banker in Chestnut Hill. We’d like to thank Amy for being the first sponsor of this podcast. Hello! As a nonprofit news outlet our coverage is powered by the support of readers like you. Help keep local news strong by making a donation today . Write a Letter To The Editor Post navigation Previous BCA to honor 25 grantees beautifying Brookline through art, music and community Next Three key town staffers set to depart Support nonprofit news Join over 1,200 people who help fund professional journalism for Brookline. Make a gift today Popular Voters overwhelmingly approve tax override, staving off cuts to schools and town departments May 5, 2026 VanScoyoc ousted from Select Board; Federspiel, Baines-Walsh and Khan win School Committee seats May 5, 2026 With turnout trending high, here's what voters are saying about the override May 5, 2026 Don't Miss Brookline Then and Now FYI: Brookline resources Building community through independent local non-profit journalism. Support Us Read News Features Events Opinions More Contact us Submit an obituary Donate Privacy Policy About Brookline . News Sign up for our newsletter » Brookline.News 1295 Beacon St, #28, Brookline, MA 02446 © 2026 Brookline.News Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Free Newsletter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Sign in Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Privacy Policy . Gift this article Close Link Copy link