source: packet.pdf
sha256: 3e4d7eab475e7941737681fa1f6db989dddafa7d4c91b7fa465b45aac9348eaf
pages: 356
ocr_pages: 2
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
February 18, 2025
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Robert Newsom Jr.
Adam Loraine
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: February 18, 2025
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 829 0345 5849      Passcode: 415920
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Consideration for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CEREMONIAL
1.
Black History Month – Proclamation
2.
Sojourn to the Past – Presentation
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
3.
San Mateo County Transportation Authority Measures A and W - Primary Grant Agreement 
Adopt a Resolution to authorize the execution of a primary grant agreement with the San Mateo County
Transportation Authority for future funding from Measures A and W; and authorize the City Manager to execute
the agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: Adoption of a Resolution and approval of the Primary Grant Agreement with the San Mateo County
Transportation Authority is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
4.
Legislative Advocacy and Grant Writing Services — Agreement
1 of 356

--- page 2 ---
Approve an agreement with California Public Policy Group, Inc. (CPPG) for legislative advocacy and grant writing
services in the amount of $115,000; authorize the City Manager to exercise up to two 1-year extensions for up to
$115,000 each year, for a total not to exceed amount of $345,000 over three years; and authorize the City
Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).))
5.
Legal Advertising Services – Bid Rejection
Reject all bids received for the City's Legal Advertising Services.
CEQA: This bid rejection is not a project subject to CEQA because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
6.
SEIU Local 521 Non-Merit Part-Time Unit, Memorandum of Understanding — Adoption
Approve a Resolution to adopt the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the SEIU Local 521 Non-Merit
Part-Time Unit (SEIU NMPT) for a three-year term from October 7, 2024 through June 5, 2027.
CEQA: This Tentative Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical
impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).))
7.
San Mateo Police Sergeants’ Association — Memorandum of Understanding Changes
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the San Mateo Police Sergeants’
Association to clarify which premiums are included in the MOU overtime calculations.
CEQA: This Sideletter of Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant
physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
8.
Annual Comprehensive Financial Report for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2024 — Approval
Accept the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR) for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024
CEQA: This report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
NEW BUSINESS
9.
Enforcement - Citation Authority – Ordinance Introduction
Introduce an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Section 1.04.050(a), “Enforcement - Citation
Authority”
2 of 356

--- page 3 ---
CEQA: This City Council action to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Section 1.04.050(a) “Enforcement—Citation
Authority,” is not a project subject to CEQA review, because it consists of an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in a direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).) 
10.
Campaign Contribution Limits – Review
Review and provide direction to staff on whether the City's campaign contribution limits and campaign rules
should be amended, or if no changes should be made; and receive an update on the City's Campaign Finance
Dashboard
CEQA: This review is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
11.
2024-25 Mid-Year Update and Budget Amendments – Adoption
Adopt a Resolution amending the FY 2024-25 General Fund operating budget to reflect the recommended mid-
year budget adjustments and receive the FY 2024-25 mid-year budget update.
CEQA: This mid-year budget update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant
physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
3 of 356

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4661
File ID: 25-9569
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
February 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
San Mateo County Transportation Authority Measures A and W – Primary Grant Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to authorize the execution of a primary grant agreement with the San Mateo County Transportation 
Authority for future funding from Measures A and W; and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in 
substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
In 1988, San Mateo County voters approved Measure A, a 20-year half-cent sales tax to fund and leverage additional 
funding for transportation projects and programs in San Mateo County. The approval of Measure A created the San Mateo 
County Transportation Authority (TA) to manage and administer the sales tax revenues generated in conformance with the 
Transportation Expenditure Plan (TEP). The 1988 sales tax expired on December 31, 2008. In 2004, the San Mateo County 
voters reauthorized the Measure A half-cent sales tax and adopted a new TEP for an additional 25 years (from January 1, 
2009 through December 31, 2033). The TEP established funding categories for Transit; Highways Improvements; Local 
Streets/Transportation; Grade Separations; Pedestrian and Bicycle Improvements; and Alternative Congestion Relief 
projects. 
In 2018, San Mateo County voters approved Measure W, a 30-year half cent sales tax, from July 1, 2019, through June 30, 
2048, to fund and leverage additional funding for transportation projects and programs in San Mateo County that are 
consistent with the Measure W Congestion Relief Plan. The San Mateo County Transit District (District) levies this tax and 
administers investments for the 50 percent of the proceeds assigned to the County Public Transportation Systems category 
in the Congestion Relief Plan. The TA is responsible for administering the remaining 50 percent of funds assigned to: 
Countywide Highway Congestion Improvements; Local Safety, Pothole and Congestion Relief Improvements including 
Grade Separations, Bicycle and Pedestrian Improvements, and Regional Transit Connections. 
Historically, the TA has executed separate funding agreements and memoranda of understanding (and associated 
amendments) for each phase of each project funded by Measures A and W. To streamline the contracting process, the TA 
has developed a new primary grant agreement (PGA) through which the TA and project sponsors will document the 
structure of their relationships and related obligations. Concise individual project supplements will detail each funded 
project and any specifically associated requirements during the 10-year term of the PGA. 
In order to be eligible for TA Measures A and W funding over the next 10 years, the TA requires sponsors' governing 
boards to adopt resolutions authorizing the sponsor's chief executive/mayor/chair, or designee, to sign a PGA with the TA. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact associated with this administrative action. 
4 of 356

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Adoption of a Resolution and approval of the Primary Grant Agreement with the San Mateo County Transportation 
Authority is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – TA Primary Grant Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Bethany Lopez, Senior Engineer
blopez@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7313
5 of 356

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
AUTHORIZING EXECUTION OF A PRIMARY GRANT AGREEMENT WITH THE SAN MATEO COUNTY 
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY FOR FUTURE FUNDING FROM MEASURES A AND W 
WHEREAS, on June 7, 1988, the voters of San Mateo County approved a ballot measure to allow the 
collection and distribution by the San Mateo County Transportation Authority (TA) of a half-cent transactions 
and use tax in San Mateo County for 20 years with the tax revenues to be used for highway and transit 
improvements pursuant to the Transportation Expenditure Plan presented to the voters (Original Measure A); 
and
WHEREAS, on November 2, 2004, the voters of San Mateo County approved the continuation of the 
collection and distribution by the TA of the Measure A half cent transaction and use tax for an additional 25 
years to implement the 2004 Transportation Expenditure Plan, beginning January 1, 2009 (New Measure A); and
WHEREAS, on November 6, 2018, the voters of San Mateo County authorized a new one-half percent 
sales tax in San Mateo County for transportation purposes, and tasked the TA with administering four of the five 
transportation program categories described in the Congestion Relief Plan presented to the voters (Measure W); 
and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo is eligible for funding under certain programs in the 1988 
Transportation Expenditure Plan, 2004 Transportation Expenditure Plan, and/or 2018 Congestion Relief Plan; 
and
WHEREAS, the TA requires the City's governing board to adopt a resolution authorizing the  City 
Manager, or a designee, to sign a Primary Grant Agreement with the TA to receive Measures A and W grants 
over the next 10 years, and to take any other actions necessary to give effect to this resolution.  
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
This City Council action approving a Primary Grant Agreement with the San Mateo County 
Transportation Authority is not a project subject to CEQA review because it consists of a 
government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may 
result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(4).)
2.
The City Manager, or designee, is authorized to execute the Primary Grant Agreement with the San 
Mateo County Transportation Authority to be eligible to receive Measures A and W grants over the 
next 10 years.
3.
Funds awarded by the TA are certified to be used to supplement existing funds for program 
activities, and will not replace existing funds or resources.
4.
The City Manager, or designee, is authorized to take any other actions necessary to give effect to 
this resolution.
6 of 356

--- page 7 ---
Page 1 of 36 
20016287.14  
PRIMARY GRANT AGREEMENT 
SAN MATEO COUNTY TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY  
MEASURE A AND/OR MEASURE W FUNDS 
This Primary Grant Agreement (Agreement) is made __________________ by and between the 
San Mateo County Transportation Authority (TA) and the [Project Sponsor] (Sponsor), each of 
which is referred to herein individually as “Party” and jointly as “Parties.” 
RECITALS 
WHEREAS, on June 7, 1988, the voters of San Mateo County approved a ballot measure to 
allow the collection and distribution by the TA of a half-cent transactions and use tax in San 
Mateo County for 20 years with the tax revenues to be used for highway and transit 
improvements pursuant to the Transportation Expenditure Plan presented to the voters (Original 
Measure A); and 
WHEREAS, on November 2, 2004, the voters of San Mateo County approved the continuation 
of the collection and distribution by the TA of the Measure A half cent transaction and use tax 
for an additional 25 years to implement the 2004 Transportation Expenditure Plan, beginning 
January 1, 2009 (New Measure A); and 
WHEREAS, on November 6, 2018, the voters of San Mateo County authorized a new one-half 
percent sales tax in San Mateo County for transportation purposes, and tasked the TA with 
administering four of the five transportation program categories described in the Congestion 
Relief Plan presented to the voters (Measure W); and 
WHEREAS, the TA and Sponsor desire to enter into this Agreement to establish the process, 
terms and conditions governing the allocation and expenditure of Measures A/W Funds by 
Sponsor for capital projects. 
Now therefore, the Parties agree as follows: 
SECTION 1: Form of Agreements 
1.1. 
Primary Grant Agreement.  This Primary Grant Agreement outlines the general 
terms and conditions applicable to all TA allocations of Measures A/W Funds to Sponsor 
for capital projects.  As allocations are made, the TA and Sponsor will enter into 
subsequent arrangements for each allocation (Project Supplements).  From time to time 
the Parties may enter into Project Supplements with third parties for cosponsored 
projects. 
1.2. 
Project Supplements.  Each Project Supplement will be substantially in a form 
attached hereto as described in Exhibit A, "Form of Project Supplements " and will be 
attached to this Agreement and incorporated herein by this reference. 
SECTION 2: Term and Termination 
2.1. 
Term.  The term of this Agreement will commence on Execution Date and will 
terminate after 10 years, unless terminated by Sponsor or the TA pursuant to this 
Section 2.  Work begun under the Agreement will continue to be governed by this 
Agreement until the Scope of Work is complete. 
7 of 356

--- page 8 ---
Page 2 of 36 
20016287.14  
2.2. 
Sponsor’s Right to Terminate; Repayment upon Termination.  Sponsor may at 
any time terminate the Agreement or a Project Supplement by giving ten (10) days’ 
written notice to the TA of its election to do so.  Upon such termination, Sponsor will not 
be reimbursed for any further Scope of Work Costs associated with the Agreement or 
the Project Supplement, as applicable, and will reimburse the TA for all monies paid by 
the TA and costs incurred by the TA in connection with the applicable Scope of Work as 
well as all reasonable costs and expenses incurred to effect such termination within 
ninety (90) days of the TA’s submission to Sponsor of a detailed statement of such 
payments and costs. 
2.3. 
Termination by the TA. The TA may terminate this Agreement or a Project 
Supplement, with or without cause, by giving ten (10) days’ written notice of such 
termination.   
If the TA terminates the Agreement for Sponsor’s default, Sponsor will reimburse the TA 
for all funds paid to Sponsor in connection with all Scopes of Work, and for all costs 
incurred by the TA in connection with the Scope of Work as well as all reasonable costs 
and expenses incurred to effect such termination, within ninety (90) days of the TA’s 
submission to Sponsor of a detailed statement of such payments and costs.   
If the TA terminates a Project Supplement for Sponsor’s default, Sponsor will reimburse 
the TA for all funds paid to Sponsor in connection with the Scope of Work for the 
applicable Project Supplement, and for all costs incurred by the TA in connection with 
the Scope of Work as well as all reasonable costs and expenses incurred to effect such 
termination, within ninety (90) days of the TA’s submission to Sponsor of a detailed 
statement of such payments and costs.   
If the TA terminates the Agreement or a Project Supplement for convenience, the TA is 
obligated to pay to Sponsor all costs and expenses incurred thereunder by Sponsor up 
to the date of notice of termination, as well as all reasonable costs and expenses 
incurred to effect such termination. 
2.4. 
Expiration/Suspension of TA’s Financial Obligations.  Any and all financial 
obligations of the TA pursuant to this Agreement expire upon the expenditure of TA’s 
maximum contribution to each Scope of Work as established in each Project 
Supplement or the conclusion of the Term as defined in Section 2.1, whichever occurs 
first. The TA reserves the right to suspend its financial obligation, with ten (10) days’ 
advance notice, if Sponsor identifies a risk of not being able to complete a Scope of 
Work within budget.  If Sponsor cannot provide a credible funding plan acceptable to the 
TA to fund and complete each Scope of Work, the Sponsor will be in default and the TA 
may terminate this Agreement.  If Sponsor identifies a risk of not being able to complete 
each Scope of Work within budget, failure to report such risk to the TA constitutes 
default and is cause for termination under Section 2.3. 
2.5. 
Supplementing Existing Revenue.  Sponsor agrees that it will use funds provided 
pursuant to this Agreement to supplement existing revenue.  Sponsor will not use 
Measures A/W Funds to replace other local taxes or revenues already programmed and 
available for use for the same purpose. Sponsor will use funds provided pursuant to this 
Agreement only for the Scope of Work for each Project Supplement. 
8 of 356

--- page 9 ---
Page 3 of 36 
20016287.14  
2.6. 
Misuse of Funds.  If the TA determines that Sponsor has used Measures A/W 
Funds other than for the approved Scope of Work or Project Costs, the TA will notify 
Sponsor of its determination.  Within thirty (30) days of notification Sponsor will either (a) 
repay such funds to the TA, or (b) explain in writing how the funds in question were 
spent for the approved Scope of Work.  The TA will respond to Sponsor’s written 
explanation within thirty (30) days of receipt.  Unless otherwise stated in the response, 
the TA’s response will be final, and Sponsor will repay any funds used other than for the 
approved Scope of Work within thirty (30) days. 
SECTION 3: Time of Performance 
3.1. 
Time of Performance.  The time of performance will be specified in each Project 
Supplement (Time of Performance). 
3.2. 
Time Extension. If the Scope of Work cannot be completed within the Time of 
Performance as defined in Section 3.1, Sponsor must submit a request in writing to the 
TA no later than six (6) months before the Time of Performance for an extension for the 
Time of Performance.  The TA will review the request and may grant the extension via a 
letter of concurrence if it is justified in TA’s sole and complete discretion.  Extensions 
longer than one (1) year will require a formal amendment to the Project Supplement.  
Costs incurred for the Scope of Work after the Time of Performance are at risk of denial 
for reimbursement by the TA.  The unreimbursed portion of Measures A/W allocation will 
be retained by the TA for the Measures A/W Program. 
SECTION 4: Insurance 
4.1. 
Insurance.  For the purposes of this Section, “Entity” is defined as any entity 
designing, approving designs and/or performing each Scope of Work specified in the 
Project Supplements funded by this Agreement.  Entities may include Sponsor, a 
contractor of Sponsor, another body on behalf of which Sponsor submitted its funding 
application, and/or a contractor of such other body.  
For each Project Supplement, all Entities will provide the appropriate insurance covering 
the work being performed as specified in the Project Supplement.  The insurance 
requirements specified in this Section will cover each Entity’s own liability and any 
liability arising out of work or services of Entity subcontractors, subconsultants, 
suppliers, temporary workers, independent contractors, leased employees, or any other 
persons, firms or corporations (hereinafter collectively referred to as “Agents”) working 
on each Project (as defined in each Project Supplement).  If Sponsor itself is an Entity, 
Sponsor must also provide its own insurance meeting the requirements of this Section. 
a) 
Minimum Types and Scope of Insurance.  Each Entity is required to procure and 
maintain at its sole cost and expense insurance subject to the requirements set 
forth below.  Such insurance will remain in full force and effect throughout 
performance of the Scope of Work.  All policies will be issued by insurers 
acceptable to the TA (generally with a Best’s Rating of A-10 or better). Each 
Entity is also required to assess the risks associated with work to be performed 
by Agents and to require that Agents maintain adequate insurance coverages 
with appropriate limits and endorsements to cover such risks.  To the extent that 
its Agent does not procure and maintain such insurance coverage, an Entity is 
responsible for and assumes any and all costs and expenses that may be 
9 of 356

--- page 10 ---
Page 4 of 36 
20016287.14  
incurred in securing said coverage or in fulfilling Entity’s indemnity obligations as 
to itself or any of its Agents in the absence of coverage.  Entities may self-insure 
against the risks associated with the Scope of Work, but in such case, waive 
subrogation in favor of the TA respecting any and all claims that may arise. 
i. 
Workers’ Compensation and Employer’s Liability Insurance. Worker’s 
Compensation coverage must meet statutory limits and Employer’s 
Liability Insurance must have minimum limits of $1 million. Insurance 
must include a Waiver of Subrogation in favor of the TA. 
ii. 
Commercial General Liability Insurance.  The limit for Commercial 
General Liability Insurance will be specified in each Project Supplement.  
Commercial General Liability Insurance must be primary to any other 
insurance, name the TA as an Additional Insured, include a Separation of 
Interests endorsement and include a Waiver of Subrogation in favor of the 
TA. 
iii. 
Business Automobile Liability Insurance.  The limit for Business 
Automobile Liability Insurance will be specified in each Project 
Supplement.  Insurance must cover all owned, non-owned and hired 
autos, and include a Waiver of Subrogation in favor of the TA. 
iv. 
Property Insurance.  Property Insurance must cover an Entity’s and/or 
Agent’s own equipment as well as any materials to be installed.  Property 
Insurance must include a Waiver of Subrogation in favor of the TA. 
v. 
Professional Liability Insurance. If specified in a Project Supplement, 
Professional Liability insurance should cover each Entity’s and any 
Agent’s professional work on the Project.   
vi. 
Cyber Liability Insurance.  If specified in a Project Supplement, and if 
contract deals with Personally Identifiable Information (PII), then 
Professional Liability Insurance policy, should also include coverage for 
Cyber risk coverages including Network and Internet Security Liability 
coverage, Privacy coverage and Media coverage.   
vii. 
Employee Theft Insurance/Crime Insurance.  If specified in a Project 
Supplement, then an Employee Theft Insurance policy covering the loss 
of money, securities or other property resulting from theft by employees.  
The policy should include Third-Party Crime or Client Crime coverage  
viii. 
Contractors’ Pollution Liability Insurance and/or Environmental Liability 
Insurance.  If specified in a Project Supplement, Contractors’ Pollution 
Liability Insurance and/or Environmental Liability insurance should cover 
potential pollution or environmental contamination or accidents.  The limit 
for Pollution and/or Environmental Liability Insurance in each appropriate 
contract and subcontract should not be less than $1 million.  Such 
insurance must name the TA as an Additional Insured and include a 
Waiver of Subrogation in favor of the TA. 
10 of 356

--- page 11 ---
Page 5 of 36 
20016287.14  
ix. 
Railroad Protective Liability Insurance. Insurance is required if the Project 
will include any construction or demolition work within 50 feet of railroad 
tracks. The limit for Railroad Protective Liability Insurance in each 
appropriate contract and subcontract cannot be less than $2 million per 
occurrence and $6 million annual aggregate.  On the Entity’s Commercial 
General Liability insurance policy, the contractual liability exclusion for 
liability assumed shall be deleted. 
b) 
Special Requirement for Caltrain Shuttles. If Sponsor and/or Entity is operating 
shuttle(s) with the Caltrain logo on the vehicle(s) or on any shuttle public 
information materials, the Commercial General Liability, Business Automobile, 
and Pollution and/or Environmental Liability (if applicable) policies also must 
name as Additional Insureds: the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board, the 
San Mateo County Transit District, the Santa Clara Valley Transportation 
Authority, the City and County of San Francisco, TransitAmerica Services, Inc. or 
any successor Operator of the Service, and the Union Pacific Railroad Company 
and their respective directors, officers, employees, volunteers and agents while 
acting in such capacity, and their successors or assignees, as they now, or as 
they may hereafter be constituted, singly, jointly or severally. 
c) 
Excess or Umbrella Coverage.  Sponsor and/or any other Entity may opt to 
procure excess or umbrella coverage to meet the above requirements, but in 
such case, these policies must also satisfy all specified endorsements and 
stipulations for the underlying coverages and include provisions that the policy 
holder’s insurance is to be primary without any right of contribution from the TA. 
d) 
Deductibles and Retentions.  Sponsor must ensure that deductibles or retentions 
on any of the above insurance policies are paid without right of contribution from 
the TA.  Deductible and retention provisions cannot contain any restrictions as to 
how or by whom the deductible or retention is paid.  Any deductible or retention 
provision limiting payment to the named insured is unacceptable. 
In the event that any policy contains a deductible or self-insured retention, and in 
the event that the TA seeks coverage under such policy as an additional insured, 
Sponsor will ensure that the policy holder satisfies such deductible to the extent 
of loss covered by such policy for a lawsuit arising from or connected with any 
alleged act or omission of the Entity or Agents, even if neither the Entity nor 
Agents are named defendants in the lawsuit. 
e) 
Claims Made Coverage.  If any insurance specified above is provided on a claim-
made basis, then in addition to coverage requirements above, such policy must 
provide that: 
i. 
Policy retroactive date coincides with or precedes the Entity’s start of 
work (including subsequent policies purchased as renewals or 
replacements). 
ii. 
Entity will make every effort to maintain similar insurance for at least three 
(3) years following Project completion, including the requirement of 
adding all additional insureds. 
11 of 356

--- page 12 ---
Page 6 of 36 
20016287.14  
iii. 
If insurance is terminated for any reason, each Entity agrees to purchase 
an extended reporting provision of at least three (3) years to report claims 
arising from work performed in connection with this Agreement. 
iv. 
Policy allows for reporting of circumstances or incidents that might give 
rise to future claims. 
f) 
Failure to Procure Adequate Insurance.  Failure by any Entity to procure 
sufficient insurance to financially support the indemnification requirements of this 
Agreement does not excuse Sponsor from meeting all obligations of the 
indemnification requirements and the remainder of this Agreement, generally. 
g) 
Prior to beginning work under this Agreement, Sponsor must obtain, and produce 
upon request of the TA, satisfactory evidence of compliance with the insurance 
requirements of this Section. 
SECTION 5: Additional Terms Applicable to Sponsor-Performed Capital Projects 
The following additional terms apply when the Sponsor is performing the scope of work 
for capital projects as described in each Project Supplement. 
5.1. 
Project Performance.  Sponsor will oversee completion of the scope of work for 
each TA funded project as described in each Project Supplement (Scope of Work).  
Sponsor is responsible for procuring and administering any professional service and/or 
other contracts entered into in connection with each such Scope of Work.  Sponsor may 
appoint a designee or engage contractor(s) to perform work necessary for completion of 
work, but Sponsor remains responsible to the TA for the completion of each Scope of 
Work.    
5.2. 
Required Approvals.  Prior to commencement of each Scope of Work, Sponsor 
or its designee (e.g., a consultant) will obtain all applicable local, state and federal 
approvals and permits for each Scope of Work.  In addition, Sponsor must comply with 
all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations applicable to the Project.  All 
real property appraisals must comply with Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal 
Practice (USPAP).  Any right-of-way activities involving property on the Caltrans right-of-
way must be conducted in accordance with the current version of the Caltrans Right-of-
Way manual. 
5.3. 
Contract Award and Change Orders.  Sponsor must comply with state and local 
agency requirements for the award of any contract(s) for the performance of each Scope 
of Work and any change orders.  As each Scope of Work proceeds, Sponsor must 
advise the TA of any contracts awarded and change orders as part of the regular 
progress reporting requirements.  Notice of any contracts and change orders provided to 
the TA will not constitute approval by the TA of the contracts and change orders nor 
obligate the TA to provide funds in excess of its maximum contribution stated in each 
Project Supplement. 
5.4. 
Progress Reports.  Sponsor will prepare and submit to the TA quarterly progress 
reports during the entire term of each Scope of Work and covering all Scope of Work 
activities for work completed during the previous month using the template in Exhibit B 
or in other formats specified by the TA.  The reports must describe: 
12 of 356

--- page 13 ---
Page 7 of 36 
20016287.14  
a) 
The current status of, and any changes in, scope, schedule, budget, and funding 
plans of each Scope of Work and each Project; 
b) 
Any risk factors; 
c) 
The work performed during the previous quarter and projected for the next three 
months; 
d) 
Scope of Work Costs (as defined in Section 5.8 below) projected to be expended 
during the next three months; and 
e) 
Any other information requested by the TA. 
5.5. 
Final Report.  Within ninety (90) days of Sponsor’s final acceptance of each 
Scope of Work and all incidental work, Sponsor must prepare and submit to the TA a 
final report detailing the following and all other relevant information: 
a) 
A description of the Project, including a statement detailing the overall progress 
and success of the Scope of Work and the Project, a compilation of any data 
collected during the active phase(s) of the Project, and changes/additions to the 
scope of the Project. 
b) 
Total costs for the Scope of Work, including an accounting of all Measures A/W 
Funds expended in connection with the Scope of Work, and reflecting any 
unexpended Measures A/W Funds. 
c) 
An explanation and the status of any outstanding obligations or potential 
obligations related to the Scope of Work. 
d) 
A discussion of any pertinent issues or problems that arose during the 
implementation of the Scope of Work. 
e) 
Any copies of press articles, press releases, newsletter articles and any other 
publicity materials regarding the Project. 
f) 
Written confirmation or, for the final project phase, a Project Close-out form that 
no further reimbursements associated with the Scope of Work are anticipated 
and that all draw-down requests have been made. 
g) 
Photographs for all construction projects that satisfactorily demonstrate: 1) site 
conditions before the project was implemented; 2) work in progress; and 3) 
completed improvements. 
5.6. 
Funding Commitment. The TA allocates to Sponsor up to the amount specified in 
each Project Supplement for reimbursement of expenditures related to the Scope of 
Work (Scope of Work Costs).  Sponsor will contribute, or provide for the contribution of 
matching funds as specified in each Project Supplement. Sponsor also will contribute, or 
provide for the contribution of the entire amount in excess of the total project cost 
specified in the Project Supplement needed to complete each Scope of Work.  The TA’s 
funding commitment under this Agreement in no way establishes a right for Sponsor to 
receive additional funding from the TA.  All funding obligations of the TA under this 
13 of 356

--- page 14 ---
Page 8 of 36 
20016287.14  
Agreement are subject to downward adjustment based on actual sales tax receipts for 
the fiscal years indicated. 
Sponsor will assess and confirm its ability to complete the Scope of Work described in 
each Project Supplement within budget as part of the quarterly reporting requirements 
established in 5.4, above. Sponsor must further notify the TA between reporting cycles if 
Sponsor determines that the budget will not be sufficient to complete each Scope of 
Work.  The TA reserves the right to suspend its funding obligation as set forth in 
applicable Project Supplements upon such notice, and until Sponsor develops a credible 
funding plan acceptable to the TA to fund and complete the associated Scope of Work. 
5.7. 
Use of Funds. 
a) 
Measures A/W Funds must be used only for direct eligible costs to complete the 
Scope of Work.  The Sponsor is responsible for demonstrating to the TA that the 
expenses incurred were necessary to deliver each Scope of Work.  
Reimbursement for the following costs will require detailed documentation in 
accordance with generally-accepted accounting principles: 
i. 
Scope of Work phases or components such as stakeholder/public 
outreach; development of planning studies, project initiation documents 
(PID), project study reports (PSR), environmental clearance and 
mitigation for up to three years following project completion, project 
approval and environmental document (PA&ED), project design, and 
plans specifications and estimates (PS&E); regulatory agency review; 
acquisition of right-of-way; construction, and construction management; 
ii. 
Sponsor staff time for Scope of Work implementation; 
iii. 
Project administration costs for each Scope of Work under this 
Agreement. 
iv. 
Costs directly tied to the implementation of each Project Scope of Work 
as more specifically defined in Exhibit C, “Eligible Costs for 
Reimbursement,” which is attached to this Agreement and incorporated 
herein by this reference.  Eligible costs are defined in greater detail in 
Exhibit C.  If Sponsor wishes to undertake items of work not covered 
under each Scope of Work concurrent with performing each Scope of 
Work, the cost for including and undertaking the additional work must be 
segregated, and the costs borne exclusively by the Sponsor from a non-
Measures A/W Program funding source(s).  In the event that an activity is 
not listed in Exhibit C but Sponsor believes that it is an eligible cost, 
Sponsor may request that the TA consider reimbursing the Sponsor for 
the activity.  The TA will have sole discretion to grant or deny Sponsor’s 
requests. 
b) 
The following costs are not eligible for Measures A/W Funds reimbursement: 
i. 
Sponsor’s costs which are unrelated to each Scope of Work; 
ii. 
Costs for entering into this Agreement and each Project Supplement;  
14 of 356

--- page 15 ---
Page 9 of 36 
20016287.14  
iii. 
Maintenance, rehabilitation, routine operations of each Project or other 
facilities or programs except as specifically identified in the Scope of 
Work for each Project Supplement; and 
iv. 
Development of proposals, applications or agreements for Measure A, 
Measure W, or other funding programs. 
5.8. 
Reimbursement Basis.  Unless otherwise specified in the Project Supplement, 
Sponsor may seek reimbursement for Scope of Work Costs incurred on or after the 
Execution Date.  Scope of Work Costs must be incurred and paid by Sponsor prior to 
requesting reimbursement from the TA.  Sufficient documentation must accompany all 
requests for reimbursement, including the submittal of all due monthly progress reports. 
5.9. 
Accounting and Request for Reimbursement Procedures.  Sponsor, in 
coordination with and to the satisfaction of the TA, will establish procedures for Scope of 
Work accounting and requests for reimbursement.  These procedures will track and 
reflect the accumulation of the TA’s pro rata share of Scope of Work Costs.  Sponsor will 
detail the TA’s pro rata share of Scope of Work costs for all work funded under this 
Agreement with each “Reimbursement Claim Form,” which is attached to this Agreement 
as Exhibit D and incorporated herein, or in other formats specified by the TA.  Sponsor 
will maintain all necessary books and records in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. 
5.10. Invoices; Payments. 
a) 
Sponsor must prepare and submit billing statements consistent with the 
Reimbursement Claim Form with all required supporting documentation.  
Supporting documentation may include, but is not limited to, copies of vendor 
invoices, timesheets, backup documentation, checks, and payment advice, and 
must include an accounting of the TA’s share of costs for the Scope of Work as 
contemplated by this Agreement. 
b) 
For any property acquisitions for which Sponsor seeks reimbursement from the 
TA, Sponsor must provide the following supporting documentation for each 
property: 
i. 
Copies of the final real estate appraisal and any appraisal review 
conducted on behalf of Sponsor; 
ii. 
For any right-of-way activities involving property on the Caltrans right-of-
way, written confirmation that the acquisition process was conducted in 
accordance with the then-current version of the Caltrans Right-of-Way 
manual; 
iii. 
A Phase One Environmental Assessment and any recommended 
additional testing (unless waived by the TA); 
iv. 
Copy of the offer package provided to the property owner(s); 
15 of 356

--- page 16 ---
Page 10 of 36 
20016287.14  
v. 
Copy of the Notice of Exemption or other required document for 
environmental clearance under CEQA/NEPA for the purchase of the 
property, and evidence of the date of filing such Notice; and 
vi. 
Written justification acceptable to the TA of any settlement at an amount 
higher than the offer. 
c) 
For each voluntary real property transaction, Sponsor must also provide: 
i. 
Copy of the fully executed purchase and sale agreement; 
ii. 
Copy of an executed and recorded deed, in a form consistent with the 
requirements set forth in the then-current Caltrans Right-of-Way manual; 
iii. 
Copy of the Policy of Title insurance; and 
iv. 
Copy of the final closing statement from the escrow. 
d) 
For each real property acquisition undertaken through condemnation, Sponsor 
must also provide: 
i. 
Copy of the recorded Final Order of Condemnation; and 
ii. 
Copy of the litigation guarantee issued by a title insurer. 
e) 
Sponsor must detail the tasks performed, associated costs, and pro rata share of 
Scope of Work Costs to be borne by the TA with each reimbursement request. 
f) 
The TA will endeavor to disburse reimbursements for approved Scope of Work 
Costs within thirty (30) days after the TA’s approval of each claim, subject to the 
limits on the TA’s maximum contribution as established in each Project 
Supplement.  The TA’s obligation to reimburse Scope of Work Costs to Sponsor 
as provided in this Section is conditioned upon the TA’s prompt receipt of 
quarterly progress reports from Sponsor. 
g) 
Invoices may be submitted, no more frequently than once a quarter, by e-mail to: 
invoices@smcta.com, accountspayable@samtrans.com, and the designated TA 
Project Manager at the email address specified in the Project Supplement. 
Sponsor must submit a minimum of one reimbursement claim for each fiscal year 
(July through June) and no more frequently than quarterly. If Sponsor does not 
submit a reimbursement claim for two consecutive quarters (six months), then 
Sponsor will be deemed inactive.  If the Sponsor does not submit a 
reimbursement claim within the next two quarters after being deemed inactive 
then project may be deprogrammed.  Sponsor must submit a letter to the TA to 
seek administrative approval for an exemption. 
5.11. Return of Project Cost Savings.  Upon submission of the Final Report, if the total 
Scope of Work Costs are less than the amount specified in the Project Supplement, 
Sponsor will return to the TA that proportion of the Project cost savings that is equal to 
16 of 356

--- page 17 ---
Page 11 of 36 
20016287.14  
the percentage of the original Scope of Work budget that consisted of Measure A/W 
Funds. 
5.12. Indemnity by Sponsor. 
Sponsor will indemnify, keep and save harmless the TA and its directors, officers, agents 
and employees against any and all suits, claims or actions related to the performance of 
this Agreement, each Scope of Work or each Project including, but not limited to, those 
arising out of any of the following: 
a) 
Any injury to persons or property that may occur, or that may be alleged to have 
occurred, arising from the performance of each Project or implementation of this 
Agreement; or 
b) 
Any allegation that materials or services developed, provided or used for each 
Project infringe or violate any copyright, trademark, patent, trade secret, or any 
other intellectual-property or proprietary right of any third party. 
Sponsor further agrees to defend any and all such actions, suits or claims and pay all 
charges of attorneys and all other costs and expenses of defenses as they are incurred. 
If any judgment is rendered, or settlement reached, against the TA or any of the 
individuals enumerated above in any such action, Sponsor will, at its expense, satisfy 
and discharge the same. 
 
This indemnification will survive termination or expiration of the Agreement. 
SECTION 6: Additional Terms Applicable to TA-Performed Capital Projects 
The following additional terms apply when the TA is performing the scope of work for 
capital projects as described in each Project Supplement (Scope of Work).   
6.1. 
Funding Commitment. The TA will provide in lieu contributions, expenditures on 
consultants, and/or funds up to the amount specified in each Project Supplement for the 
Scope of Work tasks specified in the Project Supplement (Scope of Work Costs).   
6.2. 
Cost Savings. Any cost savings of the funds allocated for each Project 
Supplement will revert to the applicable program for the TA to reallocate to any eligible 
project through its usual fund programming and allocation activities. 
6.3. 
Insufficient Funding. In the event that additional funding is needed to complete 
the Scope of Work specified in a Project Supplement, the TA will identify the additional 
amounts needed and review those estimates with the Sponsor.  The Parties will work 
together to identify potential sources of funding, as well as obtain the necessary funds to 
complete the Scope of Work for the Project Supplement.  If additional funding is needed 
due to a change in the Project Supplement Scope of Work, as requested by the 
Sponsor, the TA will identify the additional amounts needed and review those estimates 
with the Sponsor.  In such case, it is the responsibility of the Sponsor to identify the 
potential sources of funding, as well as obtain the necessary funds to complete the 
changed Project Supplement Scope of Work.  The TA may consider requests for 
additional funding, but is under no obligation to grant such requests. 
17 of 356

--- page 18 ---
Page 12 of 36 
20016287.14  
6.4. 
TA Responsibilities. For purposes of delivering the Scope of Work, the TA agrees 
to perform the following tasks, unless otherwise specified in a Project Supplement: 
a) 
The TA will perform and complete the Scope of Work, either through its own 
forces or the use of one or more third-party consultants or contractors. 
b) 
The TA will make available to the Project up to the amount(s) specified in the 
Project Supplement(s) for the Scope of Work. 
c) 
For purposes of delivering the Scope of Work, the TA agrees to perform the 
following tasks, unless otherwise specified in a Project Supplement: 
i. 
Manage the Scope of Work, including developing and carrying out the 
Scope of Work on schedule and within budget; 
ii. 
Provide technical oversight for performance of the Scope of Work; 
iii. 
Lead coordination with Caltrans and/or other permitting agencies as 
necessary for the Scope of Work; 
iv. 
Obtain the necessary permits and approvals required for the Scope of 
Work; 
v. 
Procure and administer the consultant/contractor services to complete the 
Scope of Work; 
vi. 
Organize and facilitate regular meetings of a Project Development Team 
(PDT), the Sponsor and representatives from involved local and regional 
entities to provide input and guidance on the Scope of Work; 
vii. 
Keep Sponsor apprised of developments, such as award of contracts or 
potential changes that may affect the scope, schedule, or budget of the 
Project or Scope of Work; and 
viii. 
Consult with Sponsor where necessary/appropriate. 
d) 
To the extent applicable, the TA will execute an agreement with Caltrans for 
oversight services associated with the Scope of Work. 
e) 
The TA will prepare and provide to Sponsor status reports including anticipated 
and expended costs and Scope of Work delivery milestones and schedule 
forecasts. 
f) 
The TA will review, process, and audit (at its discretion) invoices and other 
documentation of expenditures for work performed under each Project 
Supplement.  The TA will also track the accumulation and expenditure of funds 
allocated for Scope of Work, and process other documentation of expenditures in 
compliance with TA accounting and budgeting requirements. 
18 of 356

--- page 19 ---
Page 13 of 36 
20016287.14  
6.5. 
Sponsor Responsibilities. For purposes of delivering the Scope of Work, the 
Sponsor agrees to perform the following tasks, unless otherwise specified in a Project 
Supplement: 
a) 
The Sponsor will be responsible for championing the effort of obtaining political 
and public support for the Project. 
b) 
The Sponsor will be the public face of the Project for purposes of leading 
outreach efforts to local stakeholders and community members, including 
coordination of public meetings and solicitation of public comment. 
c) 
The Sponsor will provide input and oversight based on local policies and desires 
regarding the outcome of and deliverables of the Project. 
d) 
The Sponsor will actively participate in the PDT meetings related to the Scope of 
Work. 
e) 
The Sponsor may, at its discretion, review any professional services agreements, 
change orders and any other agreements that the TA has entered into for the 
performance of Scope of Work; however the TA retains ultimate authority over 
contracting and related decisions. 
f) 
The Sponsor may, at its discretion, review the work products and deliverables 
produced by the TA and/or its contractors/consultants for the Scope of Work, 
including reports, designs, drawings, plans, specifications, schedules and other 
materials; however, the TA retains authority to accept or reject 
contractor/consultant work. 
g) 
The Sponsor will approve or endorse, in writing, the final deliverables or work 
products produced by the TA and/or its contractors/consultants for the Scope of 
Work. 
h) 
The Sponsor will review progress reports prepared and provided by the TA. 
i) 
The Sponsor may, at its discretion, review and audit invoices and other 
documentation of the expenditure of funds allocated for the Scope of Work, 
however the TA retains ultimate authority for expenditure of allocated funds on 
the Project. 
6.6. 
Indemnification. 
a) 
Each of the Parties will indemnify, hold harmless and defend the other Party and 
its directors/councilmembers, officers, employees and agents (collectively, 
"Indemnitees") against all liability, claims, suits, actions, costs or expenses 
related to performance of the Scope of Work or the Project, including but not 
limited to those arising from loss of or damage to property, and injuries to or 
death of any person (including but not limited to the property or employees of 
each Party) when arising out of or resulting from any act or omission by the 
indemnifying Party, its agents, employees, contractors or subcontractors in 
connection with any aspect of the Project, including Project design, construction 
and/or maintenance.   
19 of 356

--- page 20 ---
Page 14 of 36 
20016287.14  
b) 
Each of the Parties will also fully release, indemnify, hold harmless and defend 
the other Party and Indemnitees from and against any and all claims or suits that 
may be brought by any of the indemnifying Party's contractors or subcontractors 
performing work in connection with or related to the Project. 
c) 
The indemnifying Party's obligation to defend includes the payment of all 
reasonable attorneys' fees and all other costs and expenses of suit, and if any 
judgment is rendered, or settlement entered, against any Indemnitee, the 
indemnifying Party must, at its expense, satisfy and discharge the same.  
Indemnitees may require the indemnifying Party to obtain counsel satisfactory to 
the Indemnitees. 
d) 
This indemnification will survive termination or expiration of this Agreement. 
SECTION 7: Additional Terms Applicable to Shuttle Operations 
The following additional terms apply to shuttle projects as described in each Project 
Supplement (Project).   
7.1. 
Sponsor Oversight; Work Plan. Sponsor is responsible for implementation of the 
Project as described in each Project Supplement. Sponsor assumes responsibility for 
procuring and administering any professional service and/or other contracts entered into 
in connection with the Project.  
Though Sponsor may appoint a designee or engage contractor(s) to perform work 
necessary for Project implementation, Sponsor will remain ultimately responsible to the 
TA for performance of all responsibilities set forth herein. 
7.2. 
Required Approvals. Prior to commencement of each Project, Sponsor or its 
designee (e.g., a consultant) will obtain all required local, state and federal approvals 
and permits for Project work. In addition, Sponsor must comply with all federal, state and 
local laws and regulations applicable to the Project. 
7.3. 
Contract Award and Scope Changes. Sponsor must comply with state and local 
agency requirements for the award and amendment of any contract(s) for the 
implementation of each Project. Sponsor must advise the TA in writing (electronic mail is 
acceptable) as soon as possible of any contracts awarded and any amendments thereto, 
such as for any changes in service. Notice of any contracts and amendments provided 
to the TA will not constitute approval by the TA nor obligate the TA to provide funds in 
excess of its maximum contribution stated in the Project Supplement. 
7.4. 
Monthly & Annual Operations Reports. Within eight (8) calendar days after the 
end of each month a given Project Supplement is in effect, Sponsor or its agent must 
submit to the TA a monthly operations report (Operations Report) based on National 
Transit Database (NTD) reporting requirements, attached as Exhibit E, “National Transit 
Database Reporting Requirements.” The Operations Report must include such items as 
the average daily ridership of the Project, and the Project’s total boardings, total revenue 
miles, hours, vehicles in service, road calls, accidents and any other information 
pertinent to assess the performance of the service for purposes of local, state or federal 
reporting requirements for the month just ended.  Any monthly service mileage and/or 
hours that were scheduled, but where service was not operated for any reason, must be 
20 of 356

--- page 21 ---
Page 15 of 36 
20016287.14  
deducted from monthly reporting totals. An explanation for all lost service miles and/or 
hours must be included in the monthly report.  Sponsor or its agent must review all 
required reporting for accuracy prior to submittal to the TA. The form of all reports must 
be determined by the TA. Within eight (8) calendar days of the end of the performance of 
the work under a Project Supplement, and/or any extension thereof, Sponsor or its agent 
must submit to the TA an annual report on the same statistics. All Operations Reports 
must be submitted via Excel spreadsheet or other format as approved by the TA to 
shuttles@samtrans.com or as specified in the Project Supplement. 
7.5. 
Quarterly Progress Reports. Sponsor must prepare and submit to the TA 
quarterly progress reports by January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each year 
during the entire term of the Project. Reports must be presented in the form provided as 
Exhibit F, “Quarterly/Annual Shuttle Program Progress Report Form,” which is attached 
to this Agreement and incorporated herein by this reference, or in other formats specified 
by the TA. The reports must describe Project performance and expenditures during the 
previous quarter. 
The reports must include actions expected to be taken and any projected changes in the 
service plan / schedule during the next quarter, and any other information requested by 
the TA. Additionally, each progress report must include information on any potential 
issues that may impact any of the performance measures set forth in Exhibit F as well as 
the ability of Sponsor to meet the conditions outlined in this Agreement. 
7.6. 
Annual Report. By October 1 of each year, Sponsor must provide the TA with an 
annual report in the form provided as Exhibit F, or in other formats specified by the TA, 
summarizing the quarterly progress reports from the prior fiscal year. 
The reports must include actions expected to be taken and any projected changes in the 
service plan /schedule for the next year (if the Project is continuing), and any other 
information requested by the TA. Additionally, each Annual report must include 
information on any potential issues that may impact any of the performance measures 
set forth in Exhibit F as well as the ability of Sponsor to meet the conditions outlined in 
this Agreement for the next year (if the Project is continuing). If the Annual Report is 
submitted after the second year of the Time of Performance, the Annual Report should 
include written confirmation that no further reimbursements associated with the Project 
are anticipated and that all reimbursement requests have been made or are being 
submitted with the Annual Report. 
7.7. 
Funding Commitment. The TA allocates to Sponsor up to the amount specified in 
each Project Supplement for reimbursement of expenditures related to the Project 
(Project Costs).  The Sponsor will contribute, or provide for the contribution of matching 
as specified in each Project Supplement, as well as the entire amount in excess of TA's 
allocation needed to implement the Project.  The TA’s funding commitment under this 
Agreement in no way establishes a right for the Sponsor to receive additional funding 
from the TA.  
All funding obligations of the TA under this Agreement are subject to downward 
adjustment based on actual sales tax receipts for the fiscal years indicated, or if Sponsor 
receives funding for Project Costs from other sources which allow Sponsor to provide 
more than the matching funds specified in the Project Supplement over the term of the 
Agreement. 
21 of 356

--- page 22 ---
Page 16 of 36 
20016287.14  
The Sponsor will assess and confirm its ability to implement the Project within budget as 
part of the quarterly reporting requirements established in Section 7.5, above. The 
Sponsor must further notify the TA between reporting cycles if the Sponsor determines 
that the budget will not be sufficient to implement the Project. The TA retains authority to 
suspend its funding obligation as set forth in Section 2.4 of this Agreement upon such 
notice, and until the Sponsor develops a credible funding plan acceptable to the TA to 
fund and implement the Project. 
7.8. 
Reimbursement Basis. Sponsor may seek reimbursement for Project Costs 
incurred on or after the Execution Date. Project Costs must be incurred and paid by the 
Sponsor prior to requesting reimbursement from the TA. Sufficient documentation must 
accompany all requests for reimbursement, including the submittal of all due operations 
and progress reports. 
7.9. 
Accounting and Reimbursement Procedures. Sponsor, in coordination with and 
to the satisfaction of the TA, will establish procedures for Project accounting and 
requests for reimbursement. These procedures will track and reflect the accumulation of 
the TA’s pro rata share of costs for the Project. Sponsor will detail the TA’s pro rata 
share of Project Costs for all work funded under this Agreement with each 
“Reimbursement Claim Form” which is attached to this Agreement as Exhibit D and 
incorporated herein, or in other formats specified by the TA. Sponsor will maintain all 
necessary books and records in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles. 
7.10. Invoices; Payments. Once per quarter following submission of the quarterly 
progress reports, Sponsor must prepare and submit billing statements consistent with 
the Reimbursement Claim Form with all required supporting documentation. Supporting 
documentation may include, but is not limited to, copies of associated vendor invoices, 
timesheets, backup documentation, checks and payment advice, and must include an 
accounting of the TA's share of costs for the Project as contemplated by this Agreement. 
Claims and supporting documentation for reimbursement may be submitted by e-mail to: 
accountspayable@samtrans.com and invoices@smcta.com  
 
The TA will endeavor to disburse reimbursements for approved Project Costs within 
thirty (30) days after the TA's approval of each claim, subject to the limits on the TA's 
maximum contribution as established in the Project Supplement. The TA's obligation to 
reimburse Project Costs to the Sponsor as provided in this section is conditioned upon 
the TA’s prompt receipt of reports from Sponsor pursuant to Sections 7.4–7.6, above. 
 
7.11. Indemnity by Sponsor. The Sponsor will indemnify, keep and save harmless the 
TA (and, if the Project includes shuttle(s) with the Caltrain logo on the vehicle(s) or on 
any shuttle public information materials, the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board, the 
San Mateo County Transit District, the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority, the 
City and County of San Francisco, TransitAmerica Services, Inc. or any successor 
Operator of the Service, and the Union Pacific Railroad Company and each of its/their 
directors, officers, agents and employees against any and all suits, claims or actions 
related to the performance of this Agreement including, but not limited to, those arising 
out of any of the following: 
22 of 356

--- page 23 ---
Page 17 of 36 
20016287.14  
a) 
Any injury to persons or property that may occur, or that may be alleged to have 
occurred, arising from the performance of the Project or implementation of this 
Agreement; or 
b) 
Any allegation that materials or services developed, provided or used for the Project 
infringe or violate any copyright, trademark, patent, trade secret, or any other 
intellectual-property or proprietary right of any third party. 
The Sponsor further agrees to defend any and all such actions, suits or claims and pay 
all charges of attorneys and all other costs and expenses of defenses as they are 
incurred. If any judgment is rendered, or settlement reached, against the TA or any of 
the other agencies or individuals enumerated above in any such action, the Sponsor will, 
at its expense, satisfy and discharge the same. 
This indemnification will survive termination or expiration of the Agreement. 
SECTION 8: Additional Terms Applicable to All Other Project Supplements for Operations 
The following additional terms apply to operational projects as described in each Project 
Supplement (Project).   
8.1. 
Sponsor Oversight; Work Plan.  Sponsor is responsible for the completion of the 
Scope of Work as described in each Project Supplement.  Sponsor is responsible for 
procuring and administering any professional service and/or other contracts entered into 
in connection with the Scope of Work.  Sponsor will oversee completion of the Scope of 
Work. Sponsor may appoint a designee or engage contractor(s) to perform work 
necessary for Scope of Work completion, but Sponsor remains responsible to the TA for 
the completion of the Scope of Work.    
8.2. 
Required Approvals.  Prior to commencement of the Scope of Work, Sponsor or 
its designee (e.g., a consultant) will obtain all applicable local, state and federal 
approvals and permits for the Scope of Work.  In addition, Sponsor must comply with all 
applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations applicable to the Project.   
8.3. 
Contract Award and Change Orders.  Sponsor must comply with state and local 
agency requirements for the award of any contract(s) for the performance of the Scope 
of Work and any amendments.  As the Scope of Work proceeds, Sponsor must advise 
the TA of any contracts awarded and amendments as part of the regular progress 
reporting requirements pursuant to Section 8.4 below.  Notice of any contracts and 
amendments provided to the TA will not constitute approval by the TA of the contracts 
and amendments nor obligate the TA to provide funds in excess of its maximum 
contribution stated in the Project Supplement. 
8.4. 
Progress Reports.  For each of the projects in the Scope of Work, Sponsor will 
prepare and submit to the TA quarterly progress reports as the program proceeds and 
covering all Scope of Work activities for work completed during the previous month using 
the template in Exhibit B, or in other formats specified by the TA.  The reports must 
describe:  
a) 
The current status of, and any changes in, scope, schedule, budget, and funding 
plans of the Scope of Work and the Project;  
23 of 356

--- page 24 ---
Page 18 of 36 
20016287.14  
b) 
Any risk factors;  
c) 
The work performed during the previous quarter and projected for the next three 
months;  
d) 
Scope of Work Costs (as defined in Section 8.8, below) projected to be 
expended during the next three months; and  
e) 
Any other information requested by the TA.   
8.5. 
Closeout.  Within ninety (90) days of Sponsor’s final acceptance of the Scope of 
Work and all incidental work, Sponsor must notify the TA with a final closeout letter 
detailing the following and all other relevant information: Total costs for the Scope of 
Work, including an accounting of all Measures A/W expended in connection with the 
Scope of Work, and reflecting any unexpended Measure A/W Funds.   
8.6. 
Funding Commitment. The TA allocates to Sponsor up to the amount specified in 
each Project Supplement related to the Scope of Work (Scope of Work Costs).  Funds 
cannot be transferred between projects without separate approval from the TA.  The TA 
Executive Officer, or designee, can approve funds transfers administratively with a letter.  
The TA’s funding commitment under this Agreement in no way establishes a right for 
Sponsor to receive additional funding from the TA.   
8.7. 
Use of Funds.    
a) 
Measures A/W Funds must be used only for direct eligible costs to complete the 
Scope of Work. The Sponsor is responsible for demonstrating to the TA that the 
expenses incurred were necessary to deliver the Scope of Work.   
b) 
The following costs are not eligible for reimbursement:  
i. 
Sponsor’s costs which are unrelated to the Scope of Work; 
ii. 
Costs for entering into this Agreement; 
iii. 
Maintenance, rehabilitation, routine operations of the Project or other 
facilities or programs; and 
iv. 
Development of proposals, applications or agreements for Measure A, 
Measure W, or other funding programs.  
8.8. 
Indemnity by Sponsor.   
Sponsor will indemnify, keep and save harmless the TA and its directors, officers, agents 
and employees against any and all suits, claims or actions related to the performance of 
the Scope of Work or the Project including, but not limited to, those arising out of any of 
the following: 
a) 
Any injury to persons or property that may occur, or that may be alleged to have 
occurred, arising from the performance of the Project or implementation of this 
Agreement; or 
24 of 356

--- page 25 ---
Page 19 of 36 
20016287.14  
b) 
Any allegation that materials or services developed, provided or used for the Project 
infringe or violate any copyright, trademark, patent, trade secret, or any other 
intellectual-property or proprietary right of any third party. 
Sponsor further agrees to defend any and all such actions, suits or claims and pay all 
charges of attorneys and all other costs and expenses of defenses as they are incurred. 
If any judgment is rendered, or settlement reached, against the TA or any of the 
individuals enumerated above in any such action, Sponsor will, at its expense, satisfy 
and discharge the same. This indemnification will survive termination or expiration of the 
Agreement. 
SECTION 9: Miscellaneous 
9.1. 
Access to Records and Record Retention.  At all reasonable times, Sponsor will 
permit the TA access to all reports, designs, drawings, plans, specifications, schedules 
and other materials prepared, or in the process of being prepared, for each Scope of 
Work by Sponsor or any contractor or consultant of Sponsor.  Sponsor will also make 
available to the TA upon request any professional service agreements, change orders 
and any other agreements that are related to each Scope of Work.  Sponsor will provide 
copies of any documents described in this Section to the TA upon request.  Sponsor will 
retain all records pertaining to each Scope of Work for at least three years after 
completion of each Project. 
9.2. 
Audits. The TA, or its authorized agents, may, at any reasonable time during 
business hours, conduct an audit of Sponsor’s performance under this Agreement.  
Sponsor will permit the TA, or its authorized agents, to examine, inspect, make excerpts 
from, transcribe or photocopy books, documents, papers and other records of Sponsor 
which the TA reasonably determines to be relevant to this Agreement. 
Sponsor will transmit to the TA the Independent Auditor’s Report prepared for Sponsor’s 
Annual Comprehensive Financial Report within thirty (30) days of receipt by Sponsor 
and highlight the section that pertains to the Measures A/W Funds. 
9.3. 
No Waiver.  No waiver of any default or breach of any covenant of this 
Agreement by either Party will be implied from any omission by either Party to take 
action on account of such default if such default persists or is repeated.  Express 
waivers are limited in scope and duration to their express provisions.  Consent to one 
action does not imply consent to any future action. 
9.4. 
Assignment.  Parties are prohibited from assigning, transferring or otherwise 
substituting their interests or obligations under this Agreement without the written 
consent of all other Parties. 
9.5. 
Governing Law.  This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of 
California as applied to contracts that are made and performed entirely in California. 
9.6. 
Compliance with Laws.  In performance of this Agreement, the Parties must 
comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, regulations and ordinances. 
9.7. 
Accessibility of Services to Persons with Disabilities.  The Project implementation 
must comply with, and not subject the TA or Sponsor to liability under, the Americans 
25 of 356

--- page 26 ---
Page 20 of 36 
20016287.14  
with Disabilities Act, the California Disabled Persons Act, or any other state or federal 
laws protecting the rights of persons with disabilities. 
9.8. 
Modifications.  This Agreement may only be modified in a writing executed by 
both Parties. 
9.9. 
Attorneys’ Fees.  In the event legal proceedings are instituted to enforce any 
provision of this Agreement, the prevailing Party in said proceedings is entitled to its 
costs, including reasonable attorneys’ fees. 
9.10. Relationship of the Parties.  It is understood that this is an Agreement by and 
between Independent Contractors and does not create the relationship of agent, servant, 
employee, partnership, joint venture or association, or any other relationship other than 
that of Independent Contractor. 
9.11. Ownership of Work.  All reports, designs, drawings, plans, specifications, 
schedules, studies, memoranda, and other documents assembled for or prepared by or 
for, in the process of being assembled or prepared by or for, or furnished to Sponsor 
under this Agreement, are the joint property of the TA and Sponsor, and will not be 
destroyed without the prior written consent of the TA.  The TA is entitled to copies and 
access to these materials during the progress of the Project and upon completion or 
termination of the Project or this Agreement.  Sponsor may retain a copy of all material 
produced under this Agreement for its use in its general activities.  This Section does not 
preclude additional shared ownership of work with other entities under contract with 
Sponsor for funding of the Project. 
9.12. Non-discrimination.  Sponsor and any contractors performing services on behalf 
of Sponsor will not discriminate or permit discrimination against any person or group of 
persons on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, age, sex, sexual 
orientation, marital status, pregnancy, childbirth or related conditions, medical condition, 
mental or physical disability or veteran’s status, or in any manner prohibited by federal, 
state or local laws. 
9.13. Attribution to the TA.  Sponsor must include attribution that indicates work was 
funded with “Measure A Funds” or “Measure W Funds” or “Measures A/W Funds from 
the TA." This provision applies to any project, or publication, that was funded in part or in 
whole by “Measure A Funds” or “Measure W Funds” or “Measures A/W Funds." 
Acceptable forms of attribution include TA branding on Project-related documents, 
construction signs, public information materials, and any other applicable documents. 
Sponsor must comply with the TA's External Attribution Guide which may be updated 
from time to time and will be available on the TA's website. 
9.14. Warranty of Authority to Execute Agreement.  Each Party to this Agreement 
represents and warrants that each person whose signature appears hereon is 
authorized and has the full authority to execute this Agreement on behalf of the entity 
that is a Party to this Agreement. 
9.15. Severability.  If any portion of this Agreement, or the application thereof, is held 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remaining 
portions of this Agreement, or the application thereof, will remain in full force and effect. 
26 of 356

--- page 27 ---
Page 21 of 36 
20016287.14  
9.16. Electronic Signatures. This Agreement may be executed through the use of 
digital or electronic signatures in accordance with Government Code Section 16.5. The 
presence of an electronic signature on this Agreement will be construed as the Parties’ 
consent to do business electronically. 
9.17. Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in counterparts. 
9.18. Entire Agreement.  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the 
Parties pertaining to its subject matter and supersedes any prior or contemporaneous 
written or oral agreement between the Parties on the same subject. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have hereunder subscribed their names as of the 
last date written below (Execution Date). 
 
[SPONSOR] 
 
By:  
 
Name:  
 
Its:  
 
Date: 
 
 
Approved as to Form: 
 
 
 
Legal Counsel for the [SPONSOR] 
Date: 
 
 
 
 
SAN MATEO COUNTY TRANSPORTATION 
AUTHORITY 
 
By:  
 
 
Name: April Chan 
Its: 
Executive Director 
Date:  
 
 
 
Approved as to Form: 
 
 
 
Legal Counsel for the TA 
Date: 
 
Exhibit A: Form of Project Supplements 
Exhibit B: Progress Reporting Template 
Exhibit C: Permissible Costs for Reimbursement 
Exhibit D: Reimbursement Claim Form 
Exhibit E: National Transit Database Reporting Requirements 
Exhibit F: Quarterly/Annual Shuttle Program Progress Report Form 
 
 
27 of 356

--- page 28 ---
Page 22 of 36 
20016287.14  
Exhibit A: Form of Project Supplements 
 
SECTION A: Primary Agreement 
The San Mateo County Transportation Authority (TA) and [Project Sponsor] (Sponsor) entered 
into a Primary Grant Agreement on ________, 20__ (Primary Agreement).   
This Project Supplement is entered into on ________, 20__ pursuant to the Primary Grant 
Agreement and is subject to the terms set forth therein.   
SECTION B: Project Background 
Measure(s):  
☐ Original Measure A 
☐ New Measure A 
☐ Measure W 
Program Category: 
Measure A 
Measure W 
☐ Transit 
☐ Highways 
☐ Local Streets/Transportation 
☐ Grade Separations 
☐ Pedestrian and Bicycle 
☐ Alternative Congestion Relief Programs 
☐ Countywide Highway Congestion 
Improvements 
☐ Local Safety, Pothole & Congestion Relief 
Improvements – Local Investment Share 
☐ Local Safety, Pothole & Congestion Relief 
Improvements – Grade Separation 
☐ Bicycle and Pedestrian Improvements 
☐ Regional Transit Connections 
 
Program Subcategory (if applicable): 
Project: [Add project name] 
Scope of Work: [Specify phase(s)] 
Scope of Work Costs: [Specify amount programmed and allocated for each phase] 
TA Technical Assistance (if applicable): 
Date Funding Programmed: 
Date Funding Allocated: 
28 of 356

--- page 29 ---
Page 23 of 36 
20016287.14  
Applicable Resolutions (attached):  
Additional Terms: The following Agreement Section(s) apply to this Project Supplement: 
☐ Section 5 (Additional Terms Applicable to Sponsor-Performed Projects) 
☐ Section 6 (Additional Terms Applicable to TA-Performed Projects) 
☐ Section 7 (Additional Terms Applicable to Shuttle Operations) 
☐ Section 8 (Additional Terms Applicable to All Other Project Supplements for 
Operations) 
SECTION C: Invoices; Payments [ALTERNATIVE CLAUSE TO AGREEMENT SECTION 
5.10(a) – DELETE IF NOT APPLICABLE] 
Section 5.10(a) of the Agreement does not apply to this Project Supplement.  Instead, the TA 
will make one upfront lump sum payment of $_______ to the Sponsor to complete the Scope of 
Work.   
SECTION D: Matching Funds 
Sponsor will contribute, or provide for the contribution of, the entire amount in excess of 
$________ needed to complete the Scope of Work [and must provide at least __% pro rata 
share of the Scope of Work Costs.]   
OR 
 
Sponsor agrees to contribute the matching funds to the TA in one upfront lump sum payment of 
$________ (Matching Funds) following Sponsor's approval of an invoice from TA describing the 
expenses to which the Matching Funds will be applied, subject to the following terms and 
conditions:   
 
TA agrees that the Matching Funds are to be expended solely for the Project and agrees 
to: (i) prioritize application of the Matching Funds to expenses under the Scope of Work 
with the objective of utilizing all of the Matching Funds not later than _________; (ii) 
promptly return to Sponsor any and all unspent Matching Funds upon termination of the 
Project Supplement, or, absent termination, that have not been expended for the Project 
by _________. 
 
SECTION E: Description of Scope of Work 
Sponsoring Agency:  
 
 
Lead/Implementing Agency:  
Contact: 
 
29 of 356

--- page 30 ---
Page 24 of 36 
20016287.14  
Project Description and Scope of Work:   
 
Project Schedule: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Begin  
  
End                          
 
 
 
 
  
 
Project Budget/ Source of Funding:  
Include funding plan for the project defined above, including use of TA Technical Assistance if 
applicable 
 
 
* The other fund sources are provided for informational purposes.  
 
Operating Responsibility:  
 
Maintenance Responsibility:   
 
Project Implementation Responsibility:  
 
Project Oversight Responsibility:  
SECTION F: Third Party Roles 
1. 
Third Party Roles.  The [THIRD PARTY] is responsible for [LIST ALL RELEVANT 
RESPONSIBILITIES] for the Project.  
2. 
Caltrans Roles.  Caltrans as owner operator of the facility proposed for modification is 
responsible for reviewing and approving the [RELEVANT DOCUMENTS] for the Project.  
3. 
Other Agreements.  A Cooperative Agreement must be executed between Caltrans and 
the TA that lists the terms and conditions, roles and responsibilities and fee payment associated 
with Caltrans’ review and approval of the [RELEVANT DOCUMENTS].    
SECTION G: Time of Performance 
1. 
Time of Performance.  The Scope of Work must be completed no later than the end of 
__ quarter, Fiscal Year 20__-20__ (the TA's fiscal year runs July 1 through June 30).  
2. 
Timely Use of Funds.  Sponsor must expend Measures A/W funds expeditiously.  If 
Sponsor fails to invoice the TA for two consecutive quarters, the TA will require a meeting with 
Sponsor’s executive and Project staff to review project progress.  A Project Supplement found 
to be non-compliant with this requirement may be terminated for default by the TA.  
30 of 356

--- page 31 ---
Page 25 of 36 
20016287.14  
SECTION H: Notice 
Notices.  All notices required or permitted to be given under this Agreement, be in writing and 
delivered by email to the addresses specified below.  Notices will be deemed given when the 
email was sent.  A recipient’s failure to acknowledge receipt of the emailed notice will not affect 
the effectiveness of notice if (a) the sender can show that the notice was properly addressed 
and sent by email, and (b) the sender did not receive any email system notification that the 
email could not be delivered. 
To TA: 
San Mateo County Transportation Authority 
1250 San Carlos Avenue 
P.O. Box 3006 
San Carlos, CA  94070-1306 
Attn: 
TA Secretary and Executive Director 
 
Emails:  
To [Sponsor]: [Sponsor] 
ADDRESS LINE ONE  
ADDRESS LINE TWO 
Attn:  Project Sponsor Contact 
 
TITLE 
 
Email:  
In 2025, the TA plans to relocate its administrative building to 166 N. Rollins Road in Millbrae, 
California and when that occurs, the TA’s address will be at that location.   
SECTION I: Insurance  [The TA and Sponsor will determine what types and levels of insurance 
are required for each Project Supplement] 
The following types of insurance are required for this Project Supplement.  See Section 6 of the 
Primary Agreement for additional requirements. 
Insurance Type 
Required 
Coverage Amount 
Workers’ 
Compensation and 
Employer’s Liability 
Insurance 
Yes 
Statutory limits for Workers’ Compensation and 
at least $1 million for Employers Liability.  
Commercial General 
Liability Insurance 
Yes 
[$1/5/10 million] 
• For all projects: $1M for Project Planning, 
Project Initiation, Project Approval & 
Environmental Design and Right of Way 
Phases and for operations. 
• For capital projects with budgets of up to 
$10M (e.g., road widening): $1M for Design 
and Construction Phases.   
• For capital projects with budgets between 
$10M and $40M (e.g., freeway 
interchange): $5M for Design and 
31 of 356

--- page 32 ---
Page 26 of 36 
20016287.14  
Construction Phases.   
• For capital projects with budgets of $40M 
or more: $10M limits for Design and 
Construction Phases. 
Business Automobile 
Liability Insurance 
Yes 
[$1/5/10 million] 
• For all projects: $1M for Project Planning, 
Project Initiation, Project Approval & 
Environmental Design and Right of Way 
Phases. 
• For capital projects with budgets of up to 
$10M (e.g., road widening): $1M for Design 
and Construction Phases.   
• For capital projects with budgets between 
$10M and $40M (e.g., freeway 
interchange): $5M for Design and 
Construction Phases.   
• For capital projects with budgets of $40M 
or more: $10M limits for Design and 
Construction Phases. 
• For operations projects: $10M 
Property Insurance 
Yes 
 
Professional Liability 
Insurance 
[Yes/No] 
[$1/2/5 million] 
For most projects with professional liability 
exposure, such as consulting: At least $1 
million  
For capital projects with some design: At 
least $2 million. 
For capital projects with significant design: 
At least $5M. 
Cyber Liability 
Insurance 
[Yes/No] 
If contract deals with Personally Identifiable 
Information (PII): At least $1 million and part of 
the Professional Liability Insurance program.   
Crime Insurance 
[Yes/No] 
If Entity’s employees have access to funds, 
securities and other property: At least 
$250,000 for Employee Dishonesty Insurance 
and $250,000 for Third-Party/Client Property. 
If Entity has access to significant funds, 
securities or other property:  Limits should 
reflect cumulative exposure. 
Contractors’ Pollution 
Liability Insurance 
and/or Environmental 
[Yes/No] 
At least $1 million  
32 of 356

--- page 33 ---
Page 27 of 36 
20016287.14  
Liability Insurance 
Railroad Protective 
Liability Insurance 
[Yes/No] 
At least $2 million per occurrence and $6 million 
annual aggregate 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have hereunder subscribed their names as of the last 
date written below. 
 
[SPONSOR] 
 
 
 
By:  
 
Name:  
 
Its:  
 
Date:  
 
 
 
Approved as to Form: 
 
 
 
Legal Counsel for the [SPONSOR] 
Date:  
 
 
 
 
SAN MATEO COUNTY TRANSPORTATION 
AUTHORITY 
 
 
 
By:  
 
 
Name: April Chan 
Its: 
Executive Director 
Date:  
 
 
 
 
 
Approved as to Form: 
 
 
 
Legal Counsel for the TA 
Date:  
 
 
 
 
33 of 356

--- page 34 ---
Page 28 of 36 
20016287.14  
 
 
34 of 356

--- page 35 ---
Page 29 of 36 
20016287.14  
Exhibit B: Progress Reporting Template 
 
REPORTING PERIOD: FROM mm/dd/yyyy TO mm/dd/yyyy 
 
SMCTA Project # 00XXX – [Project Title/Phases] 
[Carryover to additional pages as necessary] 
 
Contact:  
[Name, Title, Phone, email, address]  
 
 
1) Scope: 
[Describe Scope of Work here, specify Project limits, phases of Project. Identify the [Original Measure A and/or New Measure A 
and/or Measure W] funded components] 
 
 
 
 
Status Summary:  [Provide Status]  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Issues:  [List any issues, i.e. potential scope changes] 
 
 
____________________________________________________________________________ 
2) Schedule:  
        Original Baseline 
         Current Baseline 
           Current Forecast 
 
Major Milestones:                             Start           Finish                 Start          Finish                      Start           Finish 
 
[Activity]  
 
        MM/DD/YY   MM/DD/YY         MM/DD/YY   MM/DD/YY         MM/DD/YY   MM/DD/YY  
 
[Activity]  
 
        MM/DD/YY   MM/DD/YY         MM/DD/YY   MM/DD/YY         MM/DD/YY   MM/DD/YY  
 
[Activity]  
 
        MM/DD/YY   MM/DD/YY         MM/DD/YY   MM/DD/YY         MM/DD/YY   MM/DD/YY  
 
[Activity]  
 
        MM/DD/YY   MM/DD/YY         MM/DD/YY   MM/DD/YY         MM/DD/YY   MM/DD/YY  
 
 
Progress This Reporting Period:   
[Describe progress and activities] 
 
 
 
[Original Measure A and/or New Measure A and/or Measure W] Funds Expended This Reporting Period: $ 
 
 
Future Activities, Next Reporting Period:   
[Describe planned future activities] 
 
 
 
Projected [Original Measure A and/or New Measure A and/or Measure W] Funds Expenditure Next Reporting Period: $ 
 
Issues:  [List any issues, such as impacts to schedule] 
35 of 356

--- page 36 ---
Page 30 of 36 
20016287.14  
_______________________________________________________________________ 
3) Scope of Work Total Budget: 
 
 
 
____________________________________________________________________________ 
4) Scope of Work [Original Measure A and/or New Measure A and/or Measure W] Budget: 
 
Phase/Activity 
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 
Original allocation 
(per Project 
Supplement) 
Current 
allocation (Per 
Amendments) 
Change in 
allocation from 
Project 
Supplement (B-A) 
Total 
Measure 
[A/W] 
Expended to 
date 
% of 
current 
allocation 
expended 
(D/B) 
% of Work 
Completed 
  
  
  
  
  
#DIV/0! 
  
  
  
  
  
  
#DIV/0! 
  
  
  
  
  
  
#DIV/0! 
  
Total Scope of 
Work 
$0 
$0 
$0 
$0 
#DIV/0! 
  
 
Issues:  [List any issues, i.e. potential cost increases] 
 
 
____________________________________________________________________________ 
5) Funding: [List additional sources as needed, Fill out the following matrix for each phase for the Scope of Work. i.e. 
environmental, design, etc.] 
 
  
 
Issues:  [List any issues such as changes in non-Measure [A/W] funding] 
 
 
Submit Progress Reports To: 
invoices@smcta.com   or  
 
 
SMCTA 
 
Planning & Development 
 
1250 San Carlos Avenue 
 
 
San Carlos, CA 940701 
 
1 In 2025, the TA plans to relocate its administrative building to 166 N. Rollins Road in Millbrae, California and when that occurs, the 
TA’s address will be at that location.   
A
B
C
D
E
F
Phase/Activity
Original Budget 
(per Funding 
Agreement)
Updated Cost 
Estimate
Total Change 
from Approved
(B-A)
Total Expended 
to Date
% of Revised 
Budget 
Expended
(D/B)
% of Work 
Completed
-
                           
0.00%
0.00%
-
                           
0.00%
0.00%
-
                           
0.00%
0.00%
Total Project
-
                   
 
-
                 
 
-
               
 
-
               
 
#DIV/0!
Original
Original %
Current
Current %
Estimated at 
Completion
EAC %
SMCTA
#DIV/0!
#DIV/0!
#DIV/0!
Others:
Federal (specify)
#DIV/0!
#DIV/0!
#DIV/0!
State (specify)
#DIV/0!
Other (specify)
Total
-
                
 
#DIV/0!
-
             
 
#DIV/0!
-
             
 
#DIV/0!
Contribution
Contribution
Contribution
36 of 356

--- page 37 ---
Page 31 of 36 
20016287.14  
Exhibit C: Eligible Costs for Reimbursement  
 
Program / Promotions – activities pertaining to marketing/promotional programs detailed in the 
Scope of Work. 
 
Planning – activities necessary to implement planning studies covered under the Scope of 
Work. 
 
Project Initiation Documents (PID)  – activities necessary to complete PIDs covered under the 
Scope of Work. 
 
Environmental Studies – environmental studies costs, including determination of the 
appropriate environmental document, preparation of all preliminary engineering for each 
alternative, including geomantic layouts, determination of right-of-way needs, environmental 
technical studies (such as air, noise, energy, cultural resources and hazardous waste), and all 
other studies or activities necessary to prepare and finalize the appropriate documents for 
Project and environmental approval.  
 
Design – design activities such as preparation of design studies; materials and foundation 
reports; drainage, hydrology and hydraulic reports; surveying and mapping; preparation of the 
plans, specifications and estimate; preparation of bid documents and Project files; preparation 
of permit applications and maintenance agreements; coordination of agency reviews and any 
other activities necessary to prepare final plans specifications and estimate (PS&E) for bid 
advertisement and award; and management oversight of these tasks except as limited in the 
Agreement. 
 
Right-of-Way Acquisition – all activities related to right-of-way including determination of right-
of-way needs; title searches; preparation of appraisal maps, legal descriptions and plat maps; 
parcel appraisals and appraisal reviews; hazardous materials testing and analysis; preparation 
of right-of-way acquisition documents; activities involved with acquiring rights-of-way including 
negotiation with property owners and cost associated with condemnation proceedings (including 
legal costs, expert witness costs, etc., but not including costs related to claims for inverse 
condemnation), right-of-way capital costs and cost-to-cure impacts related to the acquisition. To 
the extent allowed by law, Sponsor will undertake all best efforts so that cleanup of existing 
hazardous materials will remain the liability of the property owner.  
 
Services provided for right-of-way activities involved with property not necessary for the 
Measure A or Measure W Highway Program-funded Project as defined in the Scope of Work, 
and the associated costs for all such property, will be at the sole expense of the Sponsor.  
 
Any property not used for construction of the Project, or used for any purpose other than 
construction of the Project as defined in the Scope of Work, should be identified and the funding 
agencies should be informed. Any excess right-of-way will be identified as early as possible in 
the Project design process and sold. The proceeds from the sale of such property must be 
returned to the funding agencies, prorated based on the percentage of funds each agency 
contributed to the purchase of the property.  
 
Construction – construction expenditures for the Project (construction capital, management 
and inspection, surveys, public outreach, and related activities) that are part of the Scope of 
Work agreed to by the TA. Sponsor must submit all change orders over $50,000 to the TA for 
37 of 356

--- page 38 ---
Page 32 of 36 
20016287.14  
review and written approval before the TA will reimburse the Sponsor with Measure A Funds or 
Measure W Funds.  
 
In addition, Measures A and W Funds are eligible for reimbursement of Sponsor’s Project 
management oversight expenses associated with the construction of the Project. This would 
include activities such as construction management inspection, expenses associated with 
reviewing proposed change orders, and activities involved with submitting final costs to the 
appropriate agencies to secure other leveraged funds.  Expenditure of Measure A and Measure 
W Funds remains subject to the limits set forth in the Agreement. 
  
The Sponsor may include additional work beyond the Scope of Work for the Project at its own 
expense. The TA will require these costs to be segregated from the other item work expenses 
and paid for with non-Measure A or Measure W Highway Program funds.  
 
Miscellaneous – fees from other agencies, including permit fees or reimbursement for review 
or oversight costs needed for the Project are eligible costs. However, the cost of permits or fees 
from the Project Sponsor will not be eligible. Utility relocation costs are eligible for 
reimbursement according to previous agreements establishing rights for those utilities. The 
costs for specialized equipment for testing, analysis or production of documents for Project-
related work are also eligible.  
 
 
 
 
38 of 356

--- page 39 ---
Page 33 of 36 
20016287.14  
Exhibit D: Reimbursement Claim Form 
 
 
 
 
 
39 of 356

--- page 40 ---
Page 34 of 36 
20016287.14  
Exhibit E: National Transit Database Reporting Requirements 
 
The NTD was established by Congress to be the Nation’s primary source for information and 
statistics on the transit systems of the United States. Recipients or beneficiaries of grants from 
the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) under the Urbanized Area Formula Program (§5307) 
or Other than Urbanized Area (Rural) Formula Program (§5311) are required by statute to 
submit data to the NTD. Over 660 transit providers in urbanized areas currently report to the 
NTD through the Internet-based reporting system. Each year, NTD performance data is used 
to apportion over $5 billion of FTA funds to transit agencies in urbanized areas (UZAs). Annual 
NTD reports are submitted to Congress summarizing transit service and safety data. 
 
Below is a partial list of reported elements that may change at any time. For additional 
information, 
please 
go 
to 
the 
National 
Transit 
Database 
website 
at: 
https://www.transit.dot.gov/ntd. 
 
a) 
Deadhead (Miles/Hours): The miles and hours that a vehicle travels when out 
of revenue service. 
i) 
Deadhead includes: 
1) 
Leaving or returning to the garage or yard facility; 
2) 
Changing routes; 
3) 
When there is no expectation of carrying revenue 
passengers; 
ii) 
However, deadhead does not include: 
1) 
Charter service; 
2) 
School bus service; 
3) 
Operator training; 
4) 
Maintenance training; 
b) Fuel Consumed:  The quantity of fuel consumed for the service (by fuel 
type); 
c) Mechanical System Failure - Major: A failure of some mechanical 
element of  the revenue vehicle that prevents the vehicle from completing 
a scheduled revenue trip or from starting the next scheduled revenue trip 
because actual movement is limited or because of safety concerns; 
d) Mechanical System Failure - Other: A failure of some other mechanical 
element of the revenue vehicle that, because of local agency policy, 
prevents the revenue vehicle from completing a scheduled revenue trip 
or from starting the next scheduled revenue trip even though the vehicle 
is physically able to continue in revenue service. Any mechanical 
problem that delayed service more than five minutes, even if no Road 
Call was required; 
e) Passenger Miles Traveled (PMT):  The cumulative sum of the distances 
ridden by each passenger; 
f) Reportable Incident:  A safety or security incident occurring on transit 
property  or otherwise affecting revenue service that results in one or more 
of the following conditions: 
i) 
A fatality confirmed within 30 days of the incident; 
ii) An injury requiring immediate medical attention away 
from the scene for one or more persons; 
40 of 356

--- page 41 ---
Page 35 of 36 
20016287.14  
iii) Property damage equal to or exceeding $25,000; 
iv) An evacuation for life safety reasons; or 
v) A mainline derailment. 
g) Revenue Service (Miles, Hours, and Trips): The time when a vehicle is 
available to the general public and there is an expectation of carrying 
passengers. Vehicles operated in fare free service are considered in 
revenue service. 
i) 
Revenue service includes: 
1) Layover / recovery time. 
ii) Revenue service excludes: 
1) Deadhead 
2) Vehicle maintenance testing 
3) School bus service, and 
4) Charter service. 
h) Total Service (Miles or Hours): The time or miles from when a transit 
vehicle starts (pull-out) from a garage to go into revenue service to the 
time or miles it returns to the garage (pull-in) after completing its revenue 
service. 
i) 
Since total service covers the time or miles between: 
1) Pullout; and 
2) Pull-in; 
ii) It therefore includes both: 
1) Deadhead; and 
2) Revenue service; 
i) 
Unlinked Passenger Trips (UPT): The number of passengers who 
board public transportation vehicles. Passengers are counted each time 
they board vehicles no matter how many vehicles they use to travel from 
their origin to their destination. 
 
 
 
 
41 of 356

--- page 42 ---
Page 36 of 36 
20016287.14  
Exhibit F: Quarterly/Annual Shuttle Program Progress Report Form 
 
42 of 356

--- page 43 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 25-9593
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
February 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Legislative Advocacy and Grant Writing Services — Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with California Public Policy Group, Inc. (CPPG) for legislative advocacy and grant writing services in 
the amount of $115,000; authorize the City Manager to exercise up to two 1-year extensions for up to $115,000 each year, 
for a total not to exceed amount of $345,000 over three years; and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement 
in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The City Manager’s Office requires legislative advocacy and grant writing services to strengthen the City’s in-house efforts 
in representing the City in state level legislative matters and in applying for, receiving, and tracking competitive funding 
opportunities available to the City. For legislative advocacy, an experienced consultant would be able to provide strategic 
advice and advocacy in support of the City’s state legislative agenda and assist the City with tracking and responding to key 
legislative proposals. For grant writing support, a consultant would work with a cross-departmental team to identify grants 
that align with City’s needs, strategize which grants to pursue, secure funding for services and projects that the City would 
otherwise be unable to undertake or be required to use local tax dollars, and assist with tracking grant funded projects. 
In October 2024, City staff released a Request for Proposals (RFP) seeking a qualified firm to provide legislative advocacy 
and grant writing services and received six proposals. Staff reviewed the Proposals and interviewed the top firms. California 
Public Policy Group, Inc. (CPPG) provided a comprehensive proposal detailing their approach tailored to the City of San 
Mateo’s Council priorities and goals. CPPG has been selected due to the firm’s experience, understanding of regional issues, 
and strategic methodology and approach to services. Staff recommends entering into a one-year agreement with CPPG with 
the option to renew for two additional 1-year extensions in an amount not to exceed $115,000 annually. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funds for the first year of the contract, $115,000, have been budgeted within the FY 2024-25 City Manager's Office 
operating budget. If the option to extend the agreement is exercised, additional funding will be included in future budget 
cycles.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
43 of 356

--- page 44 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7007
44 of 356

--- page 45 ---
Professional Services
Page 1 of 13
Rev 9/22
AGREEMENT WITH CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP, INC.
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES
FOR LEGISLATIVE ADVOCACY AND GRANT WRITING SERVICES
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP, INC. (CPPG), a California Corporation 
(“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 1127 11TH Street, Suite 300, Sacramento, CA 95814.
RECITALS:
A.  CITY desires certain legislative advocacy and grant writing services hereinafter 
described.
B.  CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these legislative advocacy and grant 
writing services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and 
CONSULTANT has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth 
herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work.
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement.
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT.
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator.
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
45 of 356

--- page 46 ---
Professional Services
Page 2 of 13
Rev 9/22
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work.
SECTION 4 - TERM
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on March 1, 2025 and be 
completed on February 28, 2026. The City Manager may authorize up to two (2) one-year extensions 
by the CITY, for a total maximum term of three (3) years.
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
not to exceed $115,000, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and 
incorporated by reference. Payment for each one-year option to extend will be up to $115,000 per 
year, for a total not to exceed of $345,000.
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice.
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation.
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not.
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release.
46 of 356

--- page 47 ---
Professional Services
Page 3 of 13
Rev 9/22
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement.
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONSULTANT’s performance of this Agreement, except those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The CONSULTANT’S duty to indemnify shall 
survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement.
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement.
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY.
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL
SKILL OF CONSULTANT
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation.
47 of 356

--- page 48 ---
Professional Services
Page 4 of 13
Rev 9/22
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance.
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect.
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
48 of 356

--- page 49 ---
Professional Services
Page 5 of 13
Rev 9/22
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
SECTION 21 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Alex Khojikian
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403 
To CONSULTANT:
California Public Policy Group, Inc. (CPPG)
Attn:  Dane Hutchings
1127 11th Street, Suite 300
Sacramento, CA 95814
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT.
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party.
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
49 of 356

--- page 50 ---
Professional Services
Page 6 of 13
Rev 9/22
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
50 of 356

--- page 51 ---
Professional Services
Page 7 of 13
Rev 9/22
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and CPPG, INC. have executed this Agreement the 
day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Alex Khojikian
City Manager
Date
Dane Hutchings 
President and Secretary 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President 
plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) 
who shall sign below.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Mazarin Vakharia
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Scope of Services
Exhibit B:
Fee Rates
Exhibit C:
Insurance Requirements
51 of 356

--- page 52 ---
Professional Services
Page 8 of 13
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES
Legislative Advocacy – Scope of Services
•
State Legislative Engagement, Tracking, and Advocacy. CONSULTANT will track, review, 
analyze any introduced or amended legislation, and advocate on matters impacting airport 
operations, authority, and autonomy in the State Budget. CONSULTANT will assist in evaluating 
proposed legislation and identifying priorities based upon the potential impact on the CITY, and 
CONSULTANT will consult on and develop documents that include draft policy positions, 
budgetary letters, a customized priority legislative tracking matrix according to the CITY’s 
specifications, legislative and budget analysis, and background papers to ensure that CITY is 
kept informed and that the CITY’s perspective is heard by policymakers and stakeholders. 
CONSULTANT will assist in the development, drafting, and sponsorship of State legislation and 
amendments needed to advance CITY goals and priorities. 
•
Relationship Building. CONSULTANT will build on the CITY’s presence in Sacramento to develop 
robust ties with legislative leaders, the Administration, and key State agencies and staff. 
CONSULTANT will continue fostering relationships within the Governor’s Office, HCD, DOF, 
Caltrans, CalSTA, CTC, and other departments with relevant programs and initiatives. As part of 
on-boarding, CONSULTANT will schedule one-on-one meetings with specified CITY staff to 
inventory their individual political relationships with state legislative and Administration 
officials. 
•
Federal Monitoring, Review, and Letter Writing. While CONSULTANT is not a registered 
Federal advocacy firm, CONSULTANT maintains close contact with clients’ Federal 
representatives, provide client-specific analysis of major Federal legislative packages, and as 
requested by the CITY, consult and advise in the drafting of letters, CIP requests, and other 
items. These activities ensure that the CITY are kept apprised of important Federal actions that 
impact the CITY.
•
Participate and Advise in Annual Legislative Strategic Planning. CONSULTANT understands the 
importance that establishing a proactive strategy plays in the CITY’s overall success. Through a 
series of “deep dive” meetings, CONSULTANT will work with CITY staff and leadership to discuss 
and identify who to include internally in discussions to determine goals, objectives, 
opportunities, and challenges related to the CITY’s priorities. This information will be used to 
develop an annual and multi-year legislative strategic plan that reflects the CITY’s unique 
organizational needs. 
•
Representation. CONSULTANT will represent the CITY at policy-related meetings, conferences, 
events, regulatory proceedings, legislative hearings, and other appropriate venues to deliver 
comments and testimony and provide the CITY with a consistent presence in the state Capitol. 
•
Frequent, Consistent Communication. CONSULTANT will deliver monthly policy status reports 
and detailed recaps in addition to supplemental materials during key legislative milestones 
(e.g., budget process memos, bill introduction deadlines, end of session etc.). Additionally, 
52 of 356

--- page 53 ---
Professional Services
Page 9 of 13
Rev 9/22
CONSULTANT will conduct monthly Zoom check-ins with CITY staff, increasing frequency upon 
request during legislative sessions, supported by an updated legislative matrix. These meetings 
will facilitate in-depth discussions on legislation and the latest developments.
•
Educational Tour. CONSULTANT will conduct an educational tour in the Capitol to drive 
awareness on the issues of greatest importance to the CITY based on the CITY’s legislative 
priorities. This will ensure that the appropriate communication channels with legislative staff 
and legislators remain open throughout the 2025-2026 legislative session and beyond.
•
Targeted Engagement with Statewide Local Government Association and Local Agency 
Partners. CONSULTANT has proven working relationships with the League of California Cities, 
California, California State Association of Counties, Rural Counties Representatives of California, 
Urban Counties of California, California Municipal Utilities Association, Association of California 
Water Agencies, California Special Districts Association, and other statewide local government 
advocacy organizations. These relationships will ensure that CONSULTANT can effectively 
communicate the CITY’s policy positions to CONSULTANT’s partners in these associations and 
agencies — and, when appropriate, incorporate a blended strategy — to achieve success on all 
matters of import to the CITY.
•
FPPC. CONSULTANT will file all required forms on behalf of the CITY, including but not limited 
to, forms 602 (annual Lobbying Firm Activity Authorization) and 635 (Report of Lobbyist 
Employer).
Grant Writing – Scope of Services
•
Proposal Development: CONSULTANT will provide grant writing and proposal development 
services from start to finish of the proposal development process. This includes preparing 
funding abstracts, project narratives, and the required forms and attachments. The grant writer 
will convene a kickoff meeting for each project and outline expectations for all staff involved in 
preparing the application. Optimizing the CITY’S use of resources and staff time is an 
overarching priority for CONSULTANT. CONSULTANT will develop a strategic work plan for the 
development of each proposal, take the lead in scheduling meetings, and work to obtain 
relevant information from stakeholders.
•
Collaborative Approach: CONSULTANT utilizes a collaborative grant writing process to compile 
highly competitive proposals. CONSULTANT will use cloud-based document-sharing services to 
enable real-time feedback from the CITY throughout the proposal development process. When 
there is an active project, the CONSULTANT’s assigned grant writer will schedule weekly/bi-
weekly calls to provide a consistent check-in point. 
•
Quality Control: Prior to submitting a grant application, the CONSULTANT’s grant writer will 
review the contents of the narrative and each attachment, check for typographical or 
grammatical errors, and ensure that all required components for a complete proposal are 
included in the application package.
53 of 356

--- page 54 ---
Professional Services
Page 10 of 13
Rev 9/22
•
Funding Advocacy: CONSULTANT’s grant writers work in partnership with the CONSULTANT’s 
Sacramento lobbying team to schedule meetings with state departments to promote 
awareness of priority projects. CONSULTANT will also notify legislators about grant applications 
in their districts and request letters of support to include with grant applications. 
•
Progress Monitoring and Grant Tracking: CONSULTANT’s team will provide monthly Grant 
Activity Reports that identify grant applications in progress, funding opportunities being tracked 
by CONSULTANT’s team on behalf of the CITY, and the outcomes (awarded/pending/rejected) 
of submitted grant applications. Tracking lists are organized based on identified focus areas and 
aligned to the CITY’s priority projects. Each CITY’s tracking list is reviewed monthly for updates, 
and mid-month grant releases are flagged based on the customized tracking list.
•
Funding Opportunity Research: CONSULTANT conducts continual and comprehensive research 
to keep clients informed of upcoming grant opportunities. Proactively identifying funding 
priorities allows staff and consultants to focus grant-seeking efforts in a way that supports the 
client’s long-term strategic goals and helps strategically align grant-seeking activities with 
council-approved priorities. CONSULTANT’S clients receive a monthly “Funding Opportunities 
Catalog” documenting current and cyclical grant programs administered by federal, state, and 
regional agencies. 
•
Monitoring the State Budget: CONSULTANT’s Director of Grant Services works directly with 
legislative advocates who provide updates and analysis on the state budget and relevant bills, 
allowing the Grant Services Team to proactively identify upcoming opportunities, the creation 
of new grant programs, and changes to existing grant programs. 
•
Strategic Planning: CONSULTANT works directly with organizational leadership teams to 
identify funding and service gaps to inform grant-seeking activities. CONSULTANT will schedule 
“deep dive” meetings with departments within the CITY’s organization as part of the 
onboarding process to focus on key priorities and use CITY’s priorities to drive research and 
grant tracking efforts. 
•
Grant Readiness: CONSULTANT will support the client’s efforts to proactively identify priority 
projects and triage potential grant opportunities to support these projects. As part of this 
effort, CONSULTANT will vet projects for competitive viability to support the development of 
strong grant applications. 
•
Peer Review: CONSULTANT are is available to provide peer review for grant applications 
prepared by the CITY staff. 
•
Organizational Support: Upon request, CONSULTANT will work with CITY staff to assess areas 
for improvement in the CITY’s grant-seeking efforts, assess past performance, and support the 
implementation of best practices to support successful efforts. CONSULTANT will also work 
with CITY to develop an Interdepartmental Grants Team. This model is intended to bring 
together the main points of contact in key departments for consistent communication and 
sharing of upcoming opportunities.
54 of 356

--- page 55 ---
Professional Services
Page 11 of 13
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT B
FEE RATES
Monthly flat fee service agreement in the amount of $9,583.00 with an annual not-to-exceed amount 
of $115,000.00 for services outlined in Exhibit A. This pricing includes all work performed by 
CONSULTANT primary staff, advisors, and operational/administrative support and also includes all 
costs associated with the quarterly filings required by the Fair Political Practices Commission. 
Services will be invoiced on a monthly basis.
55 of 356

--- page 56 ---
Professional Services
Page 12 of 13
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT C
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease. 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
56 of 356

--- page 57 ---
Professional Services
Page 13 of 13
Rev 9/22
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City.
Waiver of Subrogation
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.  
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City.
Verification of Coverage
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
57 of 356

--- page 58 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 25-9607
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
February 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Legal Advertising Services – Bid Rejection
RECOMMENDATION:
Reject all bids received for the City's Legal Advertising Services. 
BACKGROUND:
The San Mateo City Charter, Section 9.07, specifies that the Council shall periodically call for bids from all newspapers 
adjudicated to be newspapers of general circulation within the City, or if none, within the County of San Mateo, for the 
publication of all Ordinances and other legal notices. The Charter also specifies that the contract “shall be awarded to the 
lowest responsible bidder” and that “the Council may designate the requirements for award of contract” to become the 
City’s official city newspaper. As the City’s agreement with the San Mateo Daily Journal expired on December 5, 2023, 
updated procurement was needed. 
The City released a Request for Proposals for Legal Advertising Services on September 6, 2024, and entered into a short-
term agreement with the San Mateo Daily Journal for services rendered for 2023-2024 on August 15, 2024. Two 
newspapers submitted proposals: The San Mateo Daily Journal and San Mateo County Times (parent company, Bay Area 
News Group). 
On October 21, 2024, Council approved staff’s recommendation to reject all bids. The information submitted by each 
newspaper required further clarification. For instance, clarification was needed on: the assumed title of the newspaper 
under which the vendor would publish the notices; word count and pricing; and evidence of the San Mateo Superior 
Court’s Judgement and Order designating the newspaper applying as a Newspaper of General Circulation. 
A Request for Bids for Legal Advertising Services was released on December 2, 2024, with revisions made to the original 
advertisement. Changes included: language clearly stating the criteria by which the City would determine the lowest 
bidder, specifying that lowest vendor would be selected based on cost per line; and the requirement that vendors specify 
the title of the newspaper in which legal advertisements are published, thus providing a clear distinction between the title 
of the newspaper, aliases, and/or the parent organization. 
Three bids were received from: The San Mateo Daily Journal, San Mateo County Times (parent company, Bay Area News 
Group), and the San Francisco Examiner (parent company, The Clint Reilly Organization). While further reviewing 
submissions, it was determined that the bids did not adequately fulfill the criteria outlined in the request. Staff 
recommends rejecting all bids to allow staff to seek Council direction to designate the requirements for award of contract, 
per the Charter. A revised request for bids will require vendors to clearly state the name of the paper as it appears to the 
public, identify similar engagements in San Mateo County, identify circulation and availability of the physical newspaper 
within the City and the County. 
58 of 356

--- page 59 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Staff would also like to note that the San Mateo Daily Journal’s circulation in San Mateo County was misstated due to a 
typographical error in the October 21, 2024 agenda report, Attachment 1. Please note that the correct circulation for the 
San Mateo Daily Journal is 25,000, not 250,000.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact for the rejection of bids.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This bid rejection is not a project subject to CEQA because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met. The Request for Bids was published on the City’s Bids webpage beginning on 
September 6, 2024. Newspapers in circulation in San Mateo were also contacted by email to announce the request for 
bids.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Bid Results
STAFF CONTACT
Erin Fellers, Management Analyst I
efellers@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7066
59 of 356

--- page 60 ---
LEGAL 
ADVERTISING 
SERVICES 
 
San Mateo Daily Journal 
 
 
SMC Times 
 
 
SF Examiner 
 
Criteria 
Bidder 1 
Bidder 2 
Bidder 3 
1 
Name of 
newspaper 
submitting bid 
San Mateo Daily Journal 
San Mateo County Times 
(Parent company is Bay Area News 
Group) 
SF Examiner 
(Parent company is The Clint Reilly 
Organization) 
2 
Date Submitted 
12/16/24, 10:08am 
Deadline met 
12/3/24 10:31am 
Deadline met 
12/13/24, 2:51pm 
Deadline met 
3 
Questions 
submitted 
None 
None 
None 
4 
Pages (not to 
exceed 10) 
9 (includes adjudication) 
8 (includes adjudication) 
28 (submission is 5 pages; includes 
adjudication doc and audit) 
 
5 
 
A. 
Newspaper’s 
Qualification 
and 
Experience  
Each proposal 
should clearly 
state the 
following:  
 
1. Name of the 
proposing 
newspaper. 
 
2. Daily 
circulation of 
the newspaper 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. San Mateo Daily Journal 
 
 
 
2. Circulation:  #6 days per week on 
the following days: Monday, 
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, 
Friday, Saturday 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. San Mateo County Times 
 
 
 
2. Circulation: # 7 days per week on 
the following days: Monday, 
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, 
Friday, Saturday, Sunday.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. San Mateo Weekly, publishes as 
part of the San Mateo and San 
Francisco Examiner 
 
2. Circulation: # 4 days per week on 
the following days: Sunday, 
Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday 
 
60 of 356

--- page 61 ---
company 
(“company”).  
 
 
 
 
3. Location of 
the office from 
which the work 
on this 
engagement is 
to be 
performed.  
 
 
 
Average Circulation in the County of 
San Mateo: 25,000;  
 
 
3. Location: 
1720 S. Amphlett Blvd., Ste 123, San 
Mateo CA 94402 
*Legals do not publish on Sundays 
 
Average Circulation in the County of 
San Mateo: 3,653 daily / 10,488 
Sunday 
 
3. Location:  
75 E. Santa Clara St. San Jose, CA 
95113 
 
 
 
Average Circulation in the County of 
San Mateo: 1,980 daily 
 
 
3. Location:  
465 California St Suite 1600, San 
Francisco, CA 94104 
 
 
6 
 
B. Status of 
Vendor’s 
Newspaper  
Each vendor 
shall include a 
copy of the 
official court 
order 
adjudicating 
the newspaper 
to be a 
newspaper of 
general 
circulation in 
the either the 
City of San 
Mateo or the 
County of San 
Mateo. 
 
Adjudication included in submission 
 
Adjudication included in submission 
 
Adjudication included in submission 
61 of 356

--- page 62 ---
7 
 
C. Advertising 
Staff  
The company 
should identify 
and keep the 
City up-to-date 
with the specific 
newspaper staff 
and contact 
information for 
those assigned 
to legal 
advertising. 
 
 
Joy Uganiza  
Jerry Lee  
 
 
Michelle Sloan 
 
Sean McDermott (cover letter 
includes contact for designated 
advertising staff) 
 
8 
 
D. Costs  
1. The rates to 
be charged to 
the City shall 
be designated 
for column 
inch.  
The proposal 
must also state 
the number of 
lines per 
column inch, 
as well as 
average word 
count per 
column inch. 
 
 
1.  
Rate = $1.63 per line, 12 lines per 
column inch 
 
 
 
Estimated average per year =  
 $43,580.66  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  
Rate = $1.18 per line, 11 lines per 
column inch 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Estimated average per year = 
$29,038.73  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  
Rate = $1.25 per line, 12 lines per 
column inch 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Estimated average per year =  
$33,557.85  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
62 of 356

--- page 63 ---
THE LOWEST 
BIDDER WILL 
BE 
DETERMINED 
BASED ON THE 
COST PER LINE 
regardless of 
the number of 
words per line.  
 
2. Specify any 
volume or other 
discounts 
available to be 
offered to the 
City.  
 
3. Note any 
rush or late 
submittal fees, 
if applicable.  
 
Note: Vendor 
must complete 
Attachment A 
and submit it 
with proposal. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. None 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. None 
 
Att. A included 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. None 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. None 
 
Att. A included  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. None 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. None 
 
Att. A included 
 
9 
 
E. Publishing 
Schedule  
Provide details 
on your 
publishing 
 
Table included in submission 
 
Table included in submission 
 
Table included in submission 
63 of 356

--- page 64 ---
schedule. 
Which days do 
you publish? 
Does your 
paper publish a 
weekend 
edition? 
 
 
10 
 
F. Deadline for 
Publication  
Provide details 
on your 
newspaper’s 
deadlines (day 
and time of 
day) to place 
the 
advertisement 
in the paper. 
What is the 
turnaround 
time, and how 
much in 
advance does 
your paper 
need the 
advertisement 
before 
publishing? 
 
 
Table included in submission 
 
Table included in submission 
 
 
Table included in submission 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
64 of 356

--- page 65 ---
11 G. Process for 
Advertisement 
Submittal  
Succinctly 
describe the 
steps in the 
process for 
placing an 
advertisement 
with your 
paper. Do not 
include any 
marketing 
materials. 
Process for Advertising Submittal 
All legal notices are submitted via 
email to office@smdailyjournal.com 
and ads@smdailyjournal.com 
Every li sting is provided a proof via 
email as well as an affidavit of 
publication via email or snail mail. 
Deadline is I pm for the next publish 
date for the Classifieds section 
(under the section “Public 
Notices”). 
Deadline is 1 pm two days in 
advance for Main News section 
display ads. 
Holidays often have exceptions to 
the above schedule. 
 
Process for Advertisement Submittal 
Submissions will be submitted via 
email to 
SMCTlegals@bayareanewsgroup.co
m and one of our Legal Coordinators, 
Anashia Lloyd or Toni Carranza, will 
assist you and process the notice 
accordingly. 
 
Process for Advertisement Submittal 
Ad Tech website portal process 
described in cover letter. 
 
 
12 
 
H. Similar 
Engagements 
with Other 
Government 
Entities  
List the most 
significant 
engagements 
performed in 
the last five (5) 
years that are 
most similar to 
the 
engagement 
described in 
this Request for 
 
Att. B included in submittal 
San Bruno 
Redwood City 
San Carlos 
 
Att. B included in submission 
City of Livermore 
City of Pleasanton 
City of Alameda 
 
Att. B included in submission 
City and County of San Francisco 
Daily Journal Corporation 
City of San Carlos 
65 of 356

--- page 66 ---
Proposals. 
Indicate the 
names and 
telephone 
numbers of 
principal client 
contacts as 
professional 
references 
using 
Attachment B 
of this Request 
for Proposals. 
 
 
RFP OPENING: September 6, 2024 
RFB OPENING: December 2, 2024 
Summary of City of San Mateo’s Total Advertising Expenses, by Year 
Fiscal Year 
Total Spent on Advertising 
2018 
$38,462 
2019 
$18,280.82 
2020 
$38,263.15 
2021 
$34,374.58 
2022 
$18,305.70 
2023 
$29,125.66 
Average = $27,070  
 
Estimated column inches purchased per year = 2237.19 
66 of 356

--- page 67 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2312
File ID: 25-9612
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
February 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
SEIU Local 521 Non-Merit Part-Time Unit, Memorandum of Understanding — Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a Resolution to adopt the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the SEIU Local 521 Non-Merit Part-Time 
Unit (SEIU NMPT) for a three-year term from October 7, 2024 through June 5, 2027.
BACKGROUND:
The SEIU NMPT represents approximately four hundred (400) part-time per diem employees at any given time. After a 
two-year extension was agreed upon, the contract with this bargaining unit expired on June 10, 2023. Negotiations with 
the SEIU concluded in the fall of 2024 and the membership then ratified the proposed changes to their Memorandum of 
Understanding. 
Consistent with the direction provided by the City Council, the agreement includes the following key items: 
Salary: The bargaining unit will receive the same cost of living adjustments and any other special adjustments their merit 
counterparts will receive. 
Differential Pay for Working Out of Class Pay: Additional compensation will be available to employees who perform a 
significant portion but not all duties of a higher classification for a minimum of one (1) shift. 
Safety Shoes: The City will provide up to one hundred and twenty-five dollars $125.00 per fiscal year toward the 
reimbursement of safety shoes, socks, and orthotics for those employees required to don safety shoes, socks and orthotics 
for their job. 
Training: The City will schedule one-time required trainings for all Parks and Recreation current employees similar to the 
trainings provided to new employees in June 2024 for, implicit bias/pronouns, DEI-related training and a refresher of the 
California state mandated harassment prevention training. The City will research and incorporate DEI-related training for 
all new hires. 
Other: There are language changes relating to departmental operations and housekeeping language that amend some of 
the terms and conditions of the contract.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The changes in the MOU will have a negligible impact to the General Fund.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
67 of 356

--- page 68 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
This Tentative Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve 
any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Exhibit A – MOU Tentative Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Yumi Maeda, Senior Human Resource Analyst
ymaeda@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7279
68 of 356

--- page 69 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
APPROVING AMENDMENTS TO THE MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE 
CITY OF SAN MATEO AND THE SEIU LOCAL 521 NON-MERIT PART-TIME UNIT
 
WHEREAS, the SEIU Local 521 Non-Merit Part-Time Unit (SEIU NMPT or Unit) and the City have negotiated 
changes to the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for the Unit; and
WHEREAS, the amendments are related to salary, term, other pays and miscellaneous language changes 
relating to departmental operations, and language clarity for the Unit; and 
WHEREAS, the parties have met and conferred, and have reached tentative agreement to amend the Unit’s 
MOU; and
WHEREAS, the Unit has ratified the Tentative Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This Tentative Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity 
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially 
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
2. The amendments to the Memorandum of Understanding for the SEIU NMPT, set forth in the 
Tentative Agreements attached as Exhibit A, are approved and summarized as follows:
Term:  The contract will be for a period of three years, from October 7, 2024 through June 5, 2027.
Salary:  The bargaining unit will receive the same cost of living adjustments and any other special 
adjustments their merit counterparts will receive.
Differential Pay for Working Out of Class Pay: Additional compensation will be available to 
employees who perform a significant portion but not all duties of a higher classification for a 
minimum of one (1) shift.  
Safety Shoes: The City will provide up to one hundred and twenty-five dollars $125.00 per fiscal year 
toward the reimbursement of safety shoes, socks, and orthotics for those employees required to 
don safety shoes, socks and orthotics for their job. 
Training: The City will schedule one-time required trainings for all Parks and Recreation current 
employees similar to the trainings provided to new employees in June 2024 for, implicit 
bias/pronouns, DEI-related training and a refresher of the California state mandated harassment 
prevention training. The City will research and incorporate DEI-related training for all new hires.
Other: There are language changes relating to departmental operations and housekeeping language 
that amend some of the terms and conditions of the contract.
 
69 of 356

--- page 70 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO and SEIU NON-MERIT PART-TIME UNIT 
2024 MOU NEGOTIATIONS 
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT 
13.0 SICK LEAVE 
13.1 Sick Leave 
After thirty (30) days of work, non-merit part-time employees shall accrue sick leave at the rate 
of .03333 hours of sick leave for each hour of work. Credit is not received for time off without 
pay. After their 90th calendar day of employment, such employees shall be permitted to use up 
to twenty four (21) forty (40) hours of sick leave per fiscal year in a minimum increment of at least 
one (1) hour. The maximum sick leave accrual permitted as a of any pay period shall be forty 
eight (18) hours. Sick 1 avc credit shall not be made—enee—the—maximum—aceumulation—has 
occurred. The sick leave bank will roll over from year to year but cannot exceed the maximum 
accrual cap of eighty (80) hours. 
An employee can use sick leave for themselves or a family member for the diagnosis, care or 
treatment of an existing health condition or preventive care or for specified purposes for an 
employee who is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking. 
For the SEIU: 
For the City: 
.47 
Patrick 
Date: 
Date:  671//Z.r 
Exhibit A
70 of 356

--- page 71 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO and SEIU NON-MERIT PART-TIME UNIT 
2024 MOU NEGOTIATIONS 
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT 
10.2 Differential Pay for Working Out of Class Pay 
Upon hiring, new employees shall be provided a copy of their classification description 
as well as have access to their classification description at their work site provided by  
their employer. If an employe performs a significant portion but not all of the duties of a 
higher paid classification, the employee may, upon Department Head approval, qualify 
for a minimum of one (1) shift, qualify for a higher rate to be determined by duties 
assigned for this work out of class, qualifies for a differential pay rate of the position 
filled and duties performed assigned-fei-this--wefk-eut-e-f-elass, 
For the SEIU: 
For the City: 
,../  
Patrick Phillips 
Stacey Cue 
Date:  l%i/ 2tI 
Date:   6)//  
71 of 356

--- page 72 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO and SEIU NON-MERIT PART-TIME UNIT 
2024 MOU NEGOTIATIONS 
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT 
NEW SECTION- 11.0 HOURS OF WORK 
NEW LANGUAGE- OVERTIME 
11.2 Overtime Pay 
Overtime Pay will be paid in accordance with the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). 
For the SEIU: 
For the City: 
Patrick PhilliP-s' 
Stacey Cue 
Date: 
/7/ 2 LI 
Date: 
 
72 of 356

--- page 73 ---
Stacey Cue 
- 
12 44 
Patrick Phillips 
CITY OF SAN MATEO and SEIU NON-MERIT PART-TIME UNIT 
2024 MOU NEGOTIATIONS 
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT 
NEW SECTION- 11.0 HOURS OF WORK 
NEW LANGUAGE- HOURS OF WORK 
11.1 Rest & Meal Periods 
Employees shall be provided rest breaks and meal periods as required by the California 
State law and be compensated in accordance with the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). 
For the SEIU: 
For the City: 
Date:  b///3-727-/ 
Date: 
 
73 of 356

--- page 74 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO and SEIU NON-MERIT PART-TIME UNIT 
2024 MOU NEGOTIATIONS 
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT 
16.2  15.2 Performance Feedback Sessions 
After one year of continuous service, an employee who works 400 800 hours per year, may 
request an employee counseling session for verbal feedback on his/her job performance. 
The conversation will be memorialized and placed in the employee's file. The City can 
perform such an evaluation at any time at its discretion. 
For the SEIU: 
For the City: 
Stacey Cue 
Ptrick Phillips 
Date: 
 
• 
Date: 
/9/7  
74 of 356

--- page 75 ---
Date: 
Date: 
v 
CITY OF SAN MATEO and SEIU NON-MERIT PART-TIME UNIT 
2024 MOU NEGOTIATIONS 
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT 
15.0 EMPLOYMENT LEAVE 
15.1 Bereavement Leave 
In the event of a death in the immediate family, employees may take unpaid leave up to 
three (3) days, or up to five (5) days at--the-disefetiewef--the-empleyeels-Depar-tilient-14eafl, 
in the event of a death of an immediate member of his/her family. 
Immediate family shall be defined as: spouse, domestic partner, child, foster child or who 
resided with the employee at the time of his/her death, stepchild, mother, father, 
stepmother, stepfather, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, stepbrother, sister, stepsister, 
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandmother, grandfather, spouse's grandmother, spouse's 
grandfather, son-in-law, daughter-in-law or grandchildren. 
For the SEIU: 
For the City: 
Patrick Phillips 
Stacey Cue 
75 of 356

--- page 76 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO and SEIU NON-MERIT PART-TIME UNIT 
2024 MOU NEGOTIATIONS 
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT 
16.2  15.2 Performance Feedback Sessions 
After one year of continuous service, an employee who works 400 8-0-0 hours per year, may 
request an employee counseling session for verbal feedback on his/her job performance. 
The conversation will be memorialized and placed in the employee's file. The City can 
perform such an evaluation at any time at its discretion. 
For the SEIU: 
For the City: 
Patrick Phillips 
Stacey Cue 
Date: 
I-) i 
t/ 
Date: 
15--7 S,'2y 
ke'L 
I 
_ I  
76 of 356

--- page 77 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO and SEIU NON-MERIT PART-TIME UNIT 
2024 MOU NEGOTIATIONS 
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT 
2.0 NO DISCRIMINATION 
The City and the Union agree that there shall be no discrimination of any kind because of 
prohibited by applicable state and federal law and there shall be no discrimination because 
of age in accordance with California Government code Section 12940. 
10.0 DIFFERENTIALS AND PREMIUM PAY 
10.1 Bilingual Differential 
Based upon the City's need and community need and the bilingual language proficiency of 
the employee and recommendation of the Department Head, the Human Resources 
Director may approve bilingual premium pay to an employee the employee may request 
and the Department Head may recommend bilingual premium for an employee. Said 
premium pay shall be pro rated to the full time payment of Ninety Dollars ($90.00) 
biweekly. In addition to English speaking skills, an individual must possess either Chinese, 
Department Head. Approval will only be given where the employee's bilingual skill is 
regularly used in the course of City business. Approval or rejection by the Department 
Head will be given within 10 business days of request. Following approval, the bilingual 
premium pay will be available to all employees who pass a basic proficiency test. 
Bilingual premium pay shall be ninety dollars ($90) biweekly and shall become payable 
the first day of the pay period following proficiency certification. If a bilingual qualified 
employee works less than full-time, the biweekly differential will be prorated. If an 
employee is off work for an extended leave (over 30 days), they will not receive the 
bilingual pay for the remainder of the leave. 
In order to ensure that employees retain bilingual proficiency, periodic re-qualification 
shall may be required and shall be administered by the Human Resources Department. Re-
qualification shall not be required more frequently than once each year unless there is a 
concern about the language proficiency of an employee. 
11.0 HOLIDAYS 
Beginning January 1, 2009, employees in the SEIU Per Diem Unit who have worked a 
minimum of eight hundred (800) hours in the preceding fiscal year shall be entitled to 
Holiday pay. The holidays to be observed are as follows: 
Juneteenth, June 19th 
Independence Day July 4th 
77 of 356

--- page 78 ---
Labor Day 1st Monday in September 
Thanksgiving 4th Thursday in November 
Christmas Day December 25th 
To be eligible for Holiday pay for time not actually worked, the employee must work be in 
paid status on their regularly scheduled work day immediately before and their regularly 
scheduled work day immediately after the holiday (this may or may not be the day adjacent 
to the holiday). 
A qualifying employee regularly scheduled to work on Juneteenth, Independence Day, 
Labor Day, the Christmas holiday, or Thanksgiving will receive Holiday pay at their base 
hourly rate of pay for the hours they would have been scheduled (up to a maximum of eight 
(8) hours). If an employee is scheduled and works part of their regularly scheduled shift on 
the holiday, they will receive overtime pay at one and a half times their base hourly rate 
for the hours that they work. If they work part, but not all, of their regularly scheduled 
shift, they are entitled to holiday pay at their base hourly rate for the remaining hours of 
their regularly scheduled shift (to a maximum of eight (8) hours). 
15.0 EMPLOYMENT LEAVE 
15.3 Family Care Leave for Eligible Employees 
In accordance with the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act, and the California Family 
Rights Act, the City will grant job protected unpaid family and medical leave to eligible 
employees for up to twelve (12) weeks per rolling twelve-month (12) period). An eligible 
employee is one that has worked twelve hundred and fifty hours in the twelve months 
preceding application for such leave. 
In general, Family Medical Leave is available to employees for: the birth, adoption or 
placement of a foster child; the diagnosis, care or treatment of an existing health condition 
of, or preventative care for an employee's family member, as defined in California Labor 
Code section 245.5(C) care for an immediate family—member—of-the—employee—if-such 
immediate family member has a serious health condition; or the employee's own serious 
health condition that makes the employee unable to perform the functions of his/her 
position. 
The City will adhere to applicable Federal and State laws regarding Family and Medical 
Leave. For specific conditions governing Family Medical Leave please refer to the City 
Policy. 
19.6 Safety Clothing/Equipment (new) 
The City will provide up to one hundred and twenty-five dollars $125.00 per fiscal year 
toward the reimbursement of safety shoes, socks, and orthotics for those employees 
required to don safety shoes, socks and orthotics for their job. Said reimbursement shall 
be against original official receipts for safety shoes, socks and orthotic expenditures. 
Safety shoes are defined as any Safety Committee recommended shoe. The City shall 
continue to supply all required safety equipment. 
25.0 TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT 
78 of 356

--- page 79 ---
This agreement shall terminate as of 11:59 p.m., June 5-1-0, 20273. 
In the event that this Agreement is terminated or expires the salaries and benefits paid on 
the date of termination shall remain in effect. Negotiations shall establish any changes from 
the last existing salary and benefits, as well as other conditions of employment. The use of 
a formula to establish salaries and benefits shall not establish past practice. 
The existing and unmodified rules, regulations, resolutions, or ordinances relating to 
wages, hours and conditions of employment not covered in this Agreement for workers in 
this Unit shall remain unchanged unless the changes are the result of meeting and 
conferring as required by law. 
For the SEIU: 
For the City: 
Eric Rosenthal 
Date:  /I5/5 
Date: 
 
79 of 356

--- page 80 ---
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING 
between 
City of San Mateo 
and 
SEIU Non-Merit Part-Tim Unit 
City of San Mateo No Discrimination 
During the course of the 2024 labor contract negotiations, the parties discussed the City of 
San Mateo's harassment and discrimination policies and trainings available to bargaining 
unit employees. 
The City commits to schedule one-time required trainings for all Parks and Recreation 
current employees similar to the trainings provided to new employees in June 2024 for, 
implicit bias/pronouns, DEI-related training and a refresher of the California state 
mandated harassment prevention training. As of October 2024, there is no City-wide DEI-
related training. The City will research and incorporate DEI-related training for all new 
hires no later than May 31, 2025. Thereafter, any newly hired employee(s) shall receive 
DEI-related training as part of new hire onboarding along with the California state 
mandated harassment prevention training. 
DATED 
\ 
SEIU NON-MERIT PART-TIME UNIT 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
By 
By 
 
Eric Rosenthal 
Stacey Cue 
80 of 356

--- page 81 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2312
File ID: 25-9613
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
February 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
San Mateo Police Sergeants’ Association — Memorandum of Understanding Changes
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the San Mateo Police Sergeants’ 
Association to clarify which premiums are included in the MOU overtime calculations.
BACKGROUND:
This Sideletter of Agreement was created to provide clarity that premium rates for employees who work in one of the 
following special assignments will be included in calculating the MOU overtime rate: Detective Division, Traffic Detail, 
Motorcycle Patrol Unit, Gang Detail Assignment, Support Services Sergeant, Youth Services Unit, Field Training Sergeant, 
and Police Administrative Sergeant.   
BUDGET IMPACT:
The change in premiums included in the MOU overtime rate will have a minimal impact this fiscal year. Costs incurred in 
the current fiscal year can be accommodated in the Police Department’s operating budget using salary savings from vacant 
positions. Overtime will continue to be monitored, and adjustments will be made, if needed. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Sideletter of Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not 
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Exhibit A – Sideletter of Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Yumi Maeda, Senior Human Resource Analyst
ymaeda@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7279
81 of 356

--- page 82 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
APPROVING AMENDMENTS TO THE MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE 
CITY OF SAN MATEO AND THE POLICE SERGEANTS’ ASSOCIATION UNIT
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo negotiated amendments to the Memorandum of Understanding 
(“MOU”) with the Police Sergeants’ Association Unit (“Unit”); and 
WHEREAS, the amendments are related to which specific premiums are included in MOU overtime 
payment rates; and 
WHEREAS, the parties have met and conferred, and have reached an understanding on how to 
amend the Unit’s MOU.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This Letter of Understanding is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal 
activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a 
potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
2. The amendments to the Memorandum of Understanding for the Police Sergeants’ Association, set 
forth in the Letter of Understanding attached as Exhibit A, are approved and summarized as follows:
It is clarified that the following premiums included with MOU overtime are: 
•
Detective Division Premium
•
Traffic Detail
•
Motorcycle Patrol Unit
•
Gang Detail Assignment 
•
Support Services Sergeant
•
Youth Services Unit
•
Field Training Sergeant
•
Police Administrative Sergeant
 
82 of 356

--- page 83 ---
PO 
Exhibit A 
Sideletter of Agreement 
Between 
Police Sergeants' Unit 
and 
City of San Mateo 
1/24/2025 
The Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the San Mateo Police Sergeants' Unit 
(hereafter "Sergeants") and the City of San Mateo (hereafter "City") is set to expire as of 
11:59 pm, January 3, 2027. The City and the Sergeants seek to establish clarity around 
overtime as applicable to certain premiums. Therefore, the following will be added to the 
MOU and this sideletter of agreement will be effective the full pay period after adoption by 
the City Council: 
Article 15- Overtime 
15.4 Overtime worked shall be paid for at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the employee's 
established rate of pay. Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) overtime will be calculated 
according to FLSA requirements, while MOU overtime will include incentives that 
have been negotiated to be incorporated into the calculation. Premiums included in the 
MOU overtime rate are: 
• Detective Division 
• Traffic Detail 
• Motorcycle Patrol Unit 
• Gang Detail Assignment 
• Support Services Sergeant 
• Youth Services Unit 
• Field Training Sergeant 
• Police Administrative Sergeant 
ICE S
.„
EZ
6i II'S' UNIT 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
(/' (//'  
Aracelia G. Esparza 
Human Resources Director 
Sc tt Val ncia 
Prii ident, Sergeants' Unit 
fd.41/A- 
Da ei 
Date 
83 of 356

--- page 84 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2011
File ID: 25-9639
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
February 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Annual Comprehensive Financial Report for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2024 — Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Accept the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR) for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024
BACKGROUND:
The City’s Charter, Section 5.26 requires that the City’s external auditor conduct an annual audit, and the City issue a 
complete set of financial statements within a reasonable time. The Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR) for the 
fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, included as attachments to this administrative report, was presented to the Mayor and 
the Deputy Mayor in their capacity as a member of the City Council Audit Committee on January 21, 2025. The Audit 
Committee recommended that the City Council formally accept the ACFR at its regular meeting. 
The City's independent auditor, The Pun Group, a firm of licensed certified public accountants, conducts its audits in 
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards (GAAS). The standards require that the auditors plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. On a 
sample basis, they examine evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The audit also 
includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the 
overall basic financial statement presentation. 
The auditor has rendered an unmodified (“clean”) opinion on the City's basic financial statements as of and for the fiscal 
year ended June 30, 2024.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Governmental Accounting Standards require a Management’s Discussion and Analysis (referred to as MD&A) to be 
included with the audited financial statements, with the intent of giving readers an objective and easily readable analysis 
of the City’s financial performance for the year. The MD&A includes a discussion of the basic financial statements, some 
condensed financial information, an analysis of the City’s financial position, and results of operations on both a City-wide 
and Fund basis. The Management’s Discussion and Analysis begins on page 5 of the ACFR.
Financial Results by Fund
The Fund Financial Statements section, which can be found on pages 35 through 54 of the financial report, presents 
financial data for the City's major funds, most notably the General Fund.
General Fund
84 of 356

--- page 85 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The General Fund serves as the City’s primary operating fund.  In FY 2023-24, it recorded $170.0 million in revenues, 
$157.6 million in expenditures, and $12.3 million in other financing uses, resulting in a small surplus of $78,000 - 
essentially a break-even year for the City. As a result, the General Fund balance remained the same at $118.0 million.
Key Financial Highlights:
General Fund revenues totaled $170.0 million, reflecting a $6.4 million increase (3.9 percent percent) from the prior year.  
Growth was primarily attributed to increases in investment earnings and charges for services, partially offset by decreases 
in tax revenues.
•
Investment income, up by $8.1 million - from $0.4 million to $8.5 million – was due to higher yields and mark-to-
market unrealized gain as of June 30, 2024.
•
Charges for services increased by $1.8 million (13.0 percent) to $15.6 million, primarily due to stronger revenues 
from encroachment permits and golf operations.
•
Tax revenues totaled $132.1 million, a $3.2 million decrease (2.4 percent):

Property tax remains the City’s largest revenue source, generating $78.6 million, down $2.0 million from the 
prior fiscal year. Although secured property tax continued to grow, the decline was due to the shortfalls in 
Vehicle License Fee (VLF) in-lieu property tax revenue.

Sales tax, the City’s second largest revenue, decreased by $1.8 million (6.1 percent) to $27.8 million. The 
decrease was primarily due to reduced sales tax revenue from general goods and autos, and reduced 
allocation from the County pool.

Other taxes, primarily consisting of real property transfer tax (RPTT), Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT), business 
tax and franchise fees, totaled $25.9 million, a slight decrease of $0.2 million. TOT generated $5.3 million, 
RPTT $8.7 million, business tax $8.5 million, and franchise and other taxes $3.4 million. TOT revenue declined 
due to the Marriot Hotel closure. RPTT increased by $1.2 million (16 percent) primarily due to receipts of 
Measure CC tax revenue.
General Fund expenditures totaled $157.6 million, up $7.7 million (5.1 percent) compared to the previous year. The 
increase was primarily due to negotiated labor cost increases and rising operating expenses linked to inflation. The Police 
Department’s expenditures were slightly over the budget by $0.6 million, largely due to overtime costs necessary to 
maintain required staffing levels. Staff will review the Police Department’s overtime budget and adjust future year budgets 
as needed to align with operational needs and historical trends. Overall, General Fund spending was $2.9 million under 
budget for FY 2023-24. The favorable budget variance was largely due to vacancy savings. These savings were partially 
offset by higher costs for contract services, increases in pension and healthcare expenses and salary adjustments due to 
labor negotiations
General Fund balance remained at $118.0 million, unchanged from last year. From an accounting perspective, the City 
ended FY 2023-24 in a breakeven position. Revenues totaled $170.0 million, exceeding expenditure ($157.6 million) and 
other financing uses ($12.3 million), resulting in a small surplus of $78,000. However, while the audited financial 
statements reflect a balanced year, our budgetary outlook tells a different story. While assessing available resources for 
spending, the City is facing a $5 million shortfall due to the following factors:
•
$3.0 million in mark-to-market unrealized gains were recorded as investment earnings but represent non-cash 
accounting adjustments to meet the Accounting Standards. They are not spendable funds.
•
$2.0 million in unspent Measure S fund (Measure S is a General Fund sub-fund) was budgeted for CIP but not yet 
transferred out from Measure S fund to the CIP fund. These funds are not available for general operating needs.
This distinction between accounting results and budgetary resources is critical for financial planning. While the audit 
confirms the City financial statements are accurate and presented fairly, our budgeting decisions must reflect the actual 
resources available for operations. As we continue to manage the current fiscal year budget and prepare for the next 
85 of 356

--- page 86 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
budget cycle, we will need to address the budget deficit strategically.
Other Major Funds
At the close of FY 2023-24, the General Capital Projects Fund reported a fund balance of $58.8 million, up by $4.6 million 
(8.5 percent) from the prior year. The fund incurred $26.8 million in capital project expenditures, underscoring the City’s 
continued investments in our facilities and infrastructure.  Project investments included $11.8 million for the citywide 
street rehabilitation and reconstruction program, $1.7 million for storm and flood control improvements, $2.6 million for 
parks projects, and $7.9 million for city facilities and technology upgrades. 
Proprietary Funds
Proprietary Funds are used to account for activities that are fueled by charges for the services provided by each fund. 
Enterprise Funds account for external activities (largely utilities), while Internal Service Funds (ISFs) account for internal 
(interdepartmental) activities.
The Sewer Fund is the City’s main enterprise fund and should be self-supporting; the service charges to sewer customers 
generate the revenues needed to support the enterprise’s operations, debt service, and capital needs.
•
The Sewer Fund’s total net position increased from $335.9 million to $390.6 million, an increase of $54.7 million or 
16.3 percent, largely driven by the approved rate increase of 3 percent for fiscal year 2023-24, and the strategic 
use of the available low-interest-rate loan and bond proceeds to fund the cost of the Clean Water Program.  
•
Cash and investments decreased from $138.4 million to $133.4 million, and restricted cash and investments 
decreased from $92.2 million to $51.9 million, reflecting loan drawdown to pay for the Clean Water Program and 
other critical sewer capital projects.  
•
Total capital assets increased from $699.4 million to $784.2 million, a $84.8 million increase, representing the 
addition of new capital assets from the Clean Water Program.  
For the Sewer Fund, another notable change this year was the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) 
loan amendments. On February 9, 2024, the EPA approved the loan amendments to allow for early draws on the WIFIA 
loans.  Subsequently, San Mateo and Foster City/EMID submitted draw requisitions for the full amount of the WIFIA loans, 
including $295.5 million for the City. As part of the Clean Water Program’s financing plan, the City used the WIFIA loan 
proceeds to defease the 2021 Wastewater Revenue Notes, Series B, of $271.6 million. The WIFIA loans bear an interest 
rate of 1.31 percent, and early draws from this low-interest loan helped the City save on interest costs while providing an 
additional $15.6 million in working capital for the Clean Water Program.
GOVERNMENT-WIDE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
The government-wide financial statements provide a comprehensive, long-term overview of a government entity’s overall 
financial position and operations. They focus on the economic resources of the entity as a whole. These financial 
statements report not only the City’s current assets and current liabilities, but also its long-term assets and liabilities, such 
as unfunded pension liabilities. The government-wide financial statements can be found on pages 29 through 33 of the 
financial report. 
Statement of Net Position 
The Statement of Net Position primarily presents the City's balance sheet-type accounts: assets and deferred outflows of 
resources (expenditures that apply to a future period), liabilities and deferred inflows of resources (revenues that apply to 
a future period), and the net of the former and latter categories, reported as net position. 
As of June 30, 2024, the City's entity-wide net position totaled $860.8 million, reflecting an increase of $73.5 million from 
the prior year. This is due to total revenues of $322.10 million exceeding total expenditures $248.60 million.  
The City’s net pension liability increased by $8.7 million (3.1 percent), from $278.80 million to $287.5 million. This modest 
increase was primarily due to CalPERS’ improved investment performance. The City’s FY 2023-24 net pension liability was 
86 of 356

--- page 87 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
based on the CalPERS Actuarial Valuation as of June 30, 2023, rolled forward to June 30, 2024. CalPERS reported a 5.8 
percent investment return for FY 2022-23, only slightly below the expected rate of return of 6.8 percent. Despite missing 
the target, the smaller-than-expected gap helped stabilize the City's pension obligations.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The recommended action has no budget impact. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Annual Comprehensive Financial Report for the year ended June 30, 2024
STAFF CONTACT
Karen Huang, Finance Director
khuang@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7110
87 of 356

--- page 88 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O
Y E A R  E N D I N G  J U N E  3 0 ,  2 0 2 4
Annual
Comprehensive
Financial Report
C I T Y
O F
S A N
M A T E O
Y E A R
E N D I N G
J U N E
3 0 ,
2 0 2 4
88 of 356

--- page 89 ---
89 of 356

--- page 90 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
San Mateo, California 
 
 
 
Annual Comprehensive Financial Report 
 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024 
 
 
 
Prepared by 
Finance Department 
 
 
 
 
 
90 of 356

--- page 91 ---
91 of 356

--- page 92 ---
City of San Mateo 
Annual Comprehensive Financial Report 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024 
 
Table of Contents 
 
 
i 
 
Page 
 
INTRODUCTORY SECTION (Unaudited) 
 
Table of Contents ........................................................................................................................................................ i 
Letter of Transmittal ................................................................................................................................................... v 
Directory of City Officials ........................................................................................................................................xiv 
Map of City’s Location .............................................................................................................................................xv 
Organizational Chart .................................................................................................................................................xvi 
GFOA Certificate of Excellence in Financial Reporting ...........................................................................................xvii 
 
FINANCIAL SECTION 
 
Independent Auditors’ Report ................................................................................................................................ 1 
 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited) ...................... 5 
 
Basic Financial Statements: 
 
 
Government-Wide Financial Statements: 
 
 
Statement of Net Position ............................................................................................................................ 30 
 
 
Statement of Activities ................................................................................................................................ 32 
 
 
Fund Financial Statements: 
 
 
Governmental Funds Financial Statements: 
 
 
 
Balance Sheet ........................................................................................................................................ 39 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of the Governmental Funds Balance Sheet 
 
 
 
 
to the Government-Wide Statement of Net Position ...................................................................... 40 
 
 
 
Statement of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes in Fund Balances ............................................... 41 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of the Governmental Funds Statement of Revenues,  
 
 
 
 
Expenditures, and Changes in Fund Balances to the Government-Wide 
 
 
 
 
Statement of Activities and Changes in Net Position ..................................................................... 42 
 
 
Proprietary Funds Financial Statements: 
 
 
 
Statement of Net Position ..................................................................................................................... 45 
 
 
 
Statement of Revenues, Expenses and Changes in Net Position .......................................................... 47 
 
 
 
Statement of Cash Flows ...................................................................................................................... 48 
 
 
Fiduciary Funds Financial Statements: 
 
 
 
Statement of Fiduciary Net Position ..................................................................................................... 53 
 
 
 
Statement of Changes in Fiduciary Net Position .................................................................................. 54 
 
 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements ........................................................................................................ 61 
 
 
92 of 356

--- page 93 ---
City of San Mateo 
Annual Comprehensive Financial Report 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024 
 
Table of Contents (Continued) 
 
ii 
 
Page 
FINANCIAL SECTION (Continued) 
 
Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited): 
 
 
 
Budgetary Information ..................................................................................................................................... 127 
 
Budgetary Comparison Schedules: 
 
 
General Fund ............................................................................................................................................. 128 
 
Schedule of Changes in the Net Pension Liability and Related Ratios ............................................................ 130 
 
Schedules of Contributions - Pension .............................................................................................................. 132 
 
Schedule of Changes in Total OPEB Liability and Related Ratios ................................................................. 134 
 
Schedule of Contributions – OPEB ................................................................................................................. 135 
 
 
Supplementary Information: 
 
 
 
Non-Major Governmental Funds: 
 
 
Combining Balance Sheet ......................................................................................................................... 140 
 
 
Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenditures and Changes 
 
 
 
in Fund Balances ................................................................................................................................. 145 
 
 
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures and Changes in  
 
 
Fund Balances – Budget and Actual Schedules: 
 
 
 
Police Grants Special Revenue Fund .................................................................................................. 150 
 
 
 
Community Development Block Grant Special Revenue Fund ......................................................... 151 
 
 
 
HOME Special Revenue Fund ............................................................................................................ 152 
 
 
 
City Housing Special Revenue Fund .................................................................................................. 153 
 
 
 
Low and Moderate Income Housing Special Revenue Fund .............................................................. 154 
 
 
 
Permanent Local Housing Allocation Special Revenue Fund ............................................................ 155 
 
 
 
Gas Tax Special Revenue Fund .......................................................................................................... 156 
 
 
 
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Special Revenue Fund ........................................................... 157 
 
 
 
Advance Planning Special Revenue Fund .......................................................................................... 158 
 
 
 
Solid Waste Special Revenue Fund .................................................................................................... 159 
 
 
 
Parks and Recreation Special Revenue Fund ...................................................................................... 160 
 
 
 
Traffic Impact Fee Special Revenue Fund .......................................................................................... 161 
 
 
 
Commercial Linkage Fee Special Revenue Fund ............................................................................... 162 
 
 
 
Construction Services Special Revenue Fund .................................................................................... 163 
 
 
 
Landfill Bonds Debt Service Fund ..................................................................................................... 164 
 
 
 
General Obligation Bonds Debt Service Fund .................................................................................... 165 
 
 
 
2% Hotel Tax Capital Projects Fund .................................................................................................. 166 
 
 
Internal Service Funds: 
 
 
Combining Statement of Net Position ....................................................................................................... 168 
 
 
Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position ........................................... 170 
 
 
Combining Statement of Cash Flows ........................................................................................................ 172 
93 of 356

--- page 94 ---
City of San Mateo 
Annual Comprehensive Financial Report 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024 
 
Table of Contents (Continued) 
 
 
iii 
Page 
FINANCIAL SECTION (Continued) 
 
Supplementary Information (Continued): 
 
 
Fiduciary Funds: 
 
 
Custodial Funds - Combining Statement of Fiduciary Net Position ......................................................... 179 
 
 
Custodial Funds - Combining Statement of Changes in Fiduciary Net Position ...................................... 180 
 
 
Private Purpose Trust Funds - Combining Statement of Fiduciary Net Position ...................................... 183 
 
 
Private Purpose Trust Funds - Combining Statement of Changes in Fiduciary Net Position ................... 184 
 
 
 
General Capital Projects Fund: 
 
 
Schedule of Assessments and Impact Fees and Related Expenditures ..................................................... 187 
 
 
 
STATISTICAL SECTION (Unaudited) 
 
Table of Contents ................................................................................................................................................... 191 
 
Financial Trends: 
 
Net Position by Component – Last Ten Fiscal Years ...................................................................................... 192 
 
Changes in Net Position – Last Ten Fiscal Years ............................................................................................ 194 
 
Governmental Activities Tax Revenues by Source – Last Ten Fiscal Years .................................................. 199 
 
Fund Balances of Governmental Funds – Last Ten Fiscal Years .................................................................... 200 
 
Changes in Fund Balances of Governmental Funds – Last Ten Fiscal Years ................................................. 202 
 
Revenue Capacity: 
 
Assessed Value and Estimated Actual Value of Taxable Property – Last Ten Fiscal Years ........................... 204 
 
Direct and Overlapping Property Tax Rates – Last Ten Fiscal Years ............................................................. 205 
 
Principal Property Taxpayers – Current Year and Nine Years Ago ................................................................ 206 
 
Property Tax Levies and Collections – Last Ten Fiscal Years ........................................................................ 207 
 
Debt Capacity: 
 
Ratios of Outstanding Debt by Type – Last Ten Fiscal Years ......................................................................... 208 
 
Ratios of General Bonded Debt Outstanding – Last Ten Fiscal Years ............................................................ 210 
 
Direct and Overlapping Governmental Activities Debt ................................................................................... 211 
 
Legal Debt Margin Information – Last Ten Fiscal Years ................................................................................ 212 
 
Pledged Revenue Coverage – Last Ten Fiscal Years ...................................................................................... 214 
 
Demographic and Economic Information: 
 
Demographic and Economic Statistics – Last Ten Fiscal Years ..................................................................... 215 
 
Principal Employers – Current Year and Nine Years Ago .............................................................................. 216 
 
 
 
 
94 of 356

--- page 95 ---
City of San Mateo 
Annual Comprehensive Financial Report 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024 
 
Table of Contents (Continued) 
 
 
iv 
Page 
 
STATISTICAL SECTION (Unaudited) (Continued) 
 
Operating Information: 
 
Full Time Equivalent City Government Employees by Function – Last Ten Fiscal Years ............................. 217 
 
Operating Indicators by Function – Last Ten Fiscal Years ............................................................................. 218 
 
Capital Asset Statistics by Function – Last Ten Fiscal Years .......................................................................... 219 
 
 
 
95 of 356

--- page 96 ---
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL 
 
v 
Finance Department 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, California 94403 
p:  650.522.7100 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
January 21, 2025 
 
 
Residents of the City of San Mateo, 
Honorable Mayor, and 
Honorable Members of the City Council 
 
We are pleased to submit the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR) for the City of San 
Mateo, California (City) for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024.  This financial report contains a 
complete set of audited financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles 
generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) as promulgated by the Governmental 
Accounting Standards Board (GASB).  
 
This report consists of management’s representations concerning the finances of the City and its 
blended component unit. Responsibility for both the accuracy of the data and the completeness and 
fairness of the presentation, including all disclosures, rests with the management of the City. To 
provide a reasonable basis for making those representations, management of the City has established 
a comprehensive internal control framework that is designed to both protect the government’s assets 
from loss, theft, or misuse and to compile sufficient reliable information for the preparation of the City’s 
financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP. The first note in the Notes to the Financial 
Statements provides a detailed explanation of the City’s significant accounting policies. Because the 
cost of internal controls should not outweigh their benefits, the City’s comprehensive framework of 
internal controls has been designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements will 
be free from material misstatement. As management, we assert that, to the best of our knowledge and 
belief, this financial report is complete and reliable in all material respects.    
 
The City’s Charter, Section 5.26 requires an annual audit of the basic financial statements of the City.  
The Pun Group, a firm of licensed certified public accountants, has audited the City’s financial 
statements. The goal of the independent audit is to provide reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements of the City and its blended component unit for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, are free 
of material misstatement. The audit involved examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the 
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements; assessing the accounting principles used and 
significant estimates made by management; and evaluating the overall financial statement 
presentation. The independent auditors concluded, based upon the audit, that there was a reasonable 
basis for rendering an unmodified (“clean”) opinion on the City’s basic financial statements as of and 
for the year ended June 30, 2024.  The independent auditors’ report is presented as the first component 
of the financial section of this report. 
 
The analysis of the financial condition and the result of operations are in the Management’s Discussion 
and Analysis (MD&A) section immediately following the auditors’ report.  This transmittal letter is 
designed to complement the MD&A and should be read in conjunction with it. 
 
96 of 356

--- page 97 ---
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL 
 
vi 
THE REPORT 
 
 
 
  
 
The ACFR is presented in three sections: 
 
 The Introduction section includes this letter of transmittal, City Council introduction, the City’s 
organizational chart, and certificates of achievement. 
  
 The Financial section includes the report of the independent auditors; Management’s Discussion 
and Analysis (MD&A); the basic financial statements, including the government-wide financial 
statements; and the accompanying notes to the financial statements. The Financial Section also 
includes the fund financial statements, including the governmental funds financial statements, the 
proprietary funds financial statements, the fiduciary funds financial statements, and the combining 
individual funds financial statements for the non-major governmental funds and the internal service 
funds. Required supplementary information other than the MD&A is also included in the financial 
section.  
 
 The Statistical section includes selected financial and demographic information, presented on a 
multi-year basis. 
 
Figure 1:  ACFR Organization 
 
 
This ACFR includes all funds of the City and the City’s component unit, which is a legally separate 
organization for which the City is financially accountable or whose relationship with the City is of a 
nature and significance that would cause the City’s financial statements to be incomplete were it not 
included. 
 
In addition to the financial audit, the City typically undertakes a single audit in conformance with the 
Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 and the Uniform Guidance.  
 
 
 
 
97 of 356

--- page 98 ---
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL 
 
vii 
CITY PROFILE 
 
 
 
  
 
The City of San Mateo is in San Mateo County and is situated 19 miles south of San Francisco and 30 
miles north of San Jose. The City covers an area of 15.4 square miles and includes tidelands from the 
Bay to the east and coastal mountains to the west. With its Mediterranean climate, residents enjoy 
warm, sunny summers and mild damp winters, ideal for various recreational activities in the City’s 
many neighborhoods and regional parks. 
 
One of the larger suburbs of the San Francisco Peninsula, San Mateo is bordered by the cities of 
Burlingame to the north, Foster City to the east, Belmont to the south, and Hillsborough to the west. 
According to the State Department of Finance, the City San Mateo had an estimated population of 
105,600 on January 1, 2024, making it the largest city in San Mateo County. 
 
CITY ORGANIZATION 
The City was incorporated in 1894 and was 
originally chartered in 1922. The current charter 
was adopted in 1971 and revised in 2002. Since 
2002, there have been three other voter-approved 
amendments to the charter. San Mateo has a 
Council-Manager 
form 
of 
government. 
Five 
Council members each serve for four-year terms. 
The City recently completed a transition from at-
large elections to district elections, beginning in the 
November 2022 election, where three of the five 
districts were open. The remaining two districts 
completed the first district elections in November 
2024.  The Council selects a Mayor from among its 
members each December for a one-year term. The 
City Manager is appointed by the Council and 
serves as chief executive officer responsible for the day-to-day administration of City affairs. The City 
Council also appoints a City Attorney. There are twelve Advisory Boards and Commissions, nine of 
which are appointed by the City Council.   
 
The City provides a wide range of municipal services, including police, public works, parks and 
recreation, library, planning and zoning, building, sewer enterprise, street maintenance, economic 
development, and general administrative services. The City is part of a joint powers agreement with 
the cities of Belmont and Foster City that provides fire services to all three cities through the San Mateo 
Consolidated Fire Department. The City offers 35 parks, six recreation centers, an 18-hole golf course, 
and three libraries, including a state-of-the-art main library. California Water Service, a private 
company, provides water to City residents.  
 
The City has an Audit Committee consisting of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor. The Audit Committee 
is responsible for the selection and management of the external auditor. The Audit Committee 
discusses any matters related to the audit with the external auditor and accepts the results of the annual 
financial audit. 
 
 
 Figure 2: Map 
 
98 of 356

--- page 99 ---
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL 
 
vii 
BUDGET PROCESS 
 
The City operates on a two-year budget cycle. The two-year budget process requires that each 
department submit two one-year expenditure plans and revenue estimates to the City Council for 
approval. In each alternate year, the department directors present mid-cycle performance reports to 
the City Manager and City Council summarizing budget status to date and seeking approval for year-
two funding. The City utilizes a five-year plan for capital improvements. The plan serves as a guide 
for allocation of future resources.  
 
The City maintains budgetary controls that have the objective of ensuring compliance with legal 
provisions embodied in the annual appropriated budget submitted by the City Manager and adopted 
by the City Council. The annual operating budget and the long-term capital improvement plan are 
adopted on or before June 30th by City Council. All budget amendments require City Council 
approval. The two-year business plan for operations is adopted in June of every even-numbered year 
and is amended in the second year of the plan as part of the annual budget development process. 
 
Budgetary control (the level at which expenditures and encumbrances cannot legally exceed the 
appropriated amount) is established at the department level within individual funds. Departmental 
operating budgets may be reallocated among programs within a department and within the same fund, 
but expenditures may not exceed annually budgeted appropriations at the department/fund level 
without Council approval. Project-length budgets are adopted for the General Fund, some special 
revenue funds, and all capital project funds. Capital improvement expenditures may not exceed 
budgeted amounts without Council approval. 
 
LOCAL AND REGIONAL ECONOMY 
  
 
The information presented in the financial statements is perhaps best understood when it is considered 
from a broader perspective of the specific environment in which the City operates. The City is one of 
the major centers of economic activity in San Mateo County, serving as a business, recreational, 
educational, and cultural hub.  
 
The diverse economy of San Mateo includes a strong employment base in the technology, health care, 
financial services, government, and retail fields.  Companies based in San Mateo include Franklin 
Templeton, Fisher Investments, Sony Interactive Entertainment (Sony PlayStation), Roblox, 
SurveyMonkey, NetSuite, and GoPro.  These companies contribute significantly to the City's 
employment base and economic vitality. 
 
The City has a vibrant and pedestrian-friendly downtown that fosters small businesses and community 
events, enhancing its cultural appeal.  Additionally, the Hillsdale Shopping Center and Bridgepointe 
Shopping Center offer unique retail and entertainment experience, attracting visitors from the region, 
boosting local commerce. 
 
Real Estate Market 
San Mateo's real estate market has been a key driver of economic growth, showing consistent strength. 
Over the past 13 years, including the pandemic period, property assessed values have steadily 
increased.  According to the San Mateo County Assessor's Office, the City's total property assessed 
99 of 356

--- page 100 ---
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL 
 
viii 
value for FY 2023-24 fiscal year reached $35.4 billion—a 5.5% increase from the previous year. This 
growth reflects ongoing demand for residential and commercial properties in the area.  
However, recent economic conditions have introduced new challenges. In response to high inflation, 
the Federal Reserve (Fed) has implemented a series of interest rate hikes over the past two years, raising 
the Federal Funds Rate. Consequently, average 30-year mortgage rates were elevated to 7% (chart 1). 
The high borrowing costs have cooled the real estate market.  Although inflation is easing, the Fed has 
only implemented three rate cuts in recent months and plans to slow rate cuts in 2025.  With this 
outlook, borrowing costs are expected to remain elevated in the near term. 
 
Despite these uncertainties, the housing market is somewhat stabilizing, with San Mateo’s median 
home prices rebounding to $2.2 million (chart 2) in 2024, supported by continued demand and limited 
housing supply. 
 
Chart 1 – 30-Year Fixed Rate Mortgage Average  
 
  
Chart 2 – Real Estate Metrics – Single Family Residential, City of San Mateo 
 
Source of information: San Mateo County Association of Realtors 
 $-
 $0.5
 $1.0
 $1.5
 $2.0
 $2.5
0
50
100
150
200
250
2018
Q1
2018
Q2
2018
Q3
2018
Q4
2019
Q1
2019
Q2
2019
Q3
2019
Q4
2020
Q1
2020
Q2
2020
Q3
2020
Q4
2021
Q1
2021
Q2
2021
Q3
2021
Q4
2022
Q1
2022
Q2
2022
Q3
2022
Q4
2023
Q1
2023
Q2
2023
Q3
2023
Q4
2024
Q1
2024
Q2
2024
Q3
Millions
Median Sale Price
Inventory
Sold
Avg Days on Market
100 of 356

--- page 101 ---
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL 
 
ix 
Labor Market 
San Mateo's labor market remains robust. As of December 2024, the City's unemployment rate stood 
at 3.5% (chart 3), matching San Mateo County’s rate (3.5%) and was much better than the State’s rate 
(5.4%). Nationally, the U.S. unemployment rate stood at 4.1% in December 2024, a modest uptick from 
the prior year.  
 
Chart 3 – Unemployment Rates 
 
 
Source of information: EDD 
 
Fiscal Implications and Strategic Considerations 
Property tax revenues, a core funding source for City services, may experience slower growth due to 
pressures on the housing market from high interest rates. Additionally, rising labor and operational 
costs could challenge the City's ability to maintain service levels. These conditions will continue to be 
closely monitored going forward. Proactive financial oversight and strategic planning will ensure the 
City remains well-positioned to adapt to evolving economic conditions. 
 
CITY FINANCIAL POLICIES & PLAN 
  
 
Formal financial policies and prudent operating practices have enabled the City to maintain core 
services and minimize the impact of economic fluctuations on residents as much as possible. Formal 
policies exist in areas such as balanced budgets, revenue diversification, operating expenditures, 
reserves, investments, and debt.  
 
Trust has been built over the years between the City and the community through establishing and 
following formal financial policies, as well as maintaining prudent operating practices. This trust and 
confidence were demonstrated by the voters in San Mateo, who in November 2009 approved a ¼ cent 
general sales tax. With this tax set to expire April 2018, the voters again demonstrated their confidence 
in the City’s financial management by voting in November 2015, approving Measure S to extend the 
tax until 2048 to fund critical infrastructure and enhancements to public safety services.  San Mateo 
voters approved Measure CC in November 2022 to increase the real property transfer tax from 0.5% to 
1.5% for properties sold or transferred that are valued at $10 million or more.  
 
 
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Dec-
24
State of California
12.2
11.7
10.4
8.9
7.5
6.2
5.5
4.8
4.3
4.0
10.1
7.3
4.2
4.8
5.4
County of San Mateo
8.4
7.5
6.4
5.3
4.2
3.4
3.0
2.7
2.3
2.0
6.9
4.6
2.4
3.0
3.5
City of San Mateo
8.1
7.3
6.2
5.1
4.1
3.3
2.9
2.6
2.1
1.9
6.1
4.1
1.9
3.0
3.5
0.0
2.0
4.0
6.0
8.0
10.0
12.0
14.0
State of California
County of San Mateo
City of San Mateo
101 of 356

--- page 102 ---
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL 
 
x 
REVENUE ADMINISTRATION 
The City’s two main sources of revenue to fund operating expenditures are property and sales taxes, 
which make up over 63 percent of total General Fund revenues. In addition, the City’s revenue 
administration includes a review of all fees, fines, and charges for services to ensure the charges are 
meeting cost-recovery goals. One-time and unpredictable revenues are spent on one-time 
expenditures, such as equipment replacement, or transferred to capital improvement funds for repair 
and rehabilitation projects.  
 
EXPENDITURE ADMINISTRATION 
City departments and the Finance Department carefully review expenditure budgets. The department 
directors are responsible for containing expenditures within their Council-approved budget 
appropriations. The City maintains an encumbrance accounting system as an additional means of 
budgetary control. Encumbered amounts in the operating budget lapse one year after the end of the 
fiscal year. 
 
RESERVES 
The City Council’s budget policy for the use of reserves varies depending on the reserve type, but 
generally limits the use of reserves to respond to revenue shortfalls, unanticipated expenditures, severe 
economic downturns, or natural disasters. The policy further states that use of reserves should be 
combined with structural changes to bring the budget back into balance.   
 
The General Fund reserve policy adopted by the City Council seeks to reflect three months of General 
Fund budgeted operating expenditures, or 25 percent.  At the close of FY 2023-24, the General Fund 
balance was increased from $117.9 million to $118.0 million, of which $0.6 million was restricted for 
debt services, $11.4 million was assigned for specific purposes, and $105.7 million was unassigned. The 
unassigned fund balance includes the 25% operating reserve, housing reserve, and rainy-day reserve.  
 
The Sewer Fund has unrestricted net position of $184.6 million, approximately 408% of total operating 
and debt interest expenses, exceeding City enterprise fund reserve policy of four months of 
expenditures, or 33 percent.  The reserves have been established to provide sufficient liquidity to the 
Sewer Fund to ensure adequate funding to complete the Clean Water Program. 
 
In addition to maintaining a strong cash position, operating surplus also maintains the Sewer 
Enterprise Fund’s continued high debt service coverage ratio at over 2X. Both the cash position and 
debt service coverage affirm the high-quality credit rating the Sewer Enterprise received of AA- from 
S&P Global Ratings (formerly known as Standard & Poor’s) and AA rating from Kroll Bond Rating 
Agency.  
 
There are additional reserves established in the City’s other funds for vehicle and equipment 
replacement, workers’ compensation, general liability, and capital improvements.  
 
DEBT ADMINISTRATION 
The City manages the issuance of new debt and proactively communicates with the investment 
community in the administration of its outstanding debt. In doing so, the City seeks to ensure that debt 
is issued prudently and affordably, and bondholders are provided all the information required by the 
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board as governed by the Securities and Exchange Commission.   
 
102 of 356

--- page 103 ---
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL 
 
xi 
Proposition 13 amended the State Constitution by requiring California cities to obtain voter approval 
prior to issuing general obligation bonds. State statutes further limit general obligation bonded debt to 
15% of the assessed value of all real and personal property within the City. As of June 30, 2024, the 
City’s general obligation bonded debt remaining balance of $14.0 million, including unamortized bond 
premium, amounted to 0.25% of the $5.6 billion legal debt limit.  
 
According to standard measures used by the primary credit rating agencies to assess debt (e.g. fund 
balance as a percent of operating expenses, debt-to-assessed valuation ratios, debt per capita, etc.), the 
City’s level of direct debt obligations is considered low in comparison to similarly sized cities. Rating 
agencies cite the City’s strong financial management and prudent fiscal policies as credit strengths. As 
of June 30, 2024, the City’s rating for general obligation bonds is AAA by Standard & Poor’s and Aaa 
from Moody’s Investor Service.  The City of San Mateo Joint Powers Public Financing Authority 
manages two bond issues that have $16.3 million in balance outstanding.  
 
Additional information pertaining to the City’s outstanding long-term debt can be found under Long-
Term Debt (Note 7) in the Notes to the Basic Financial Statements and in the Statistical Section under 
Legal Debt Margin information. 
 
CASH MANAGEMENT 
The City pools cash from all operating sources to manage cash flow and invest idle funds.  The Finance 
Director serves as the City’s Treasurer and, utilizing the services of a third-party asset management 
advisor, oversees the investment of funds in accordance with the City Council-adopted Investment 
Policy and Government Code Sections 53601 and 56535. The City Council receives monthly treasury 
reports, and reviews and approves the City’s Investment Policy each fiscal year. 
 
LONG-TERM FINANCIAL PLANNING 
The City of San Mateo has a long tradition of disciplined and prudent fiscal management. Building on 
strategies developed during the Great Recession, the City has successfully accumulated substantial 
reserves to better position its General Fund to be prepared for economic retraction or disaster. The 
City’s prudent efforts to adopt a reserves policy and accumulate additional reserves during the years 
of economic prosperity have proven prescient within context of the immediate and severe financial 
impact from the pandemic. 
 
Looking ahead, the City recognizes the need to balance financial stability with strategic investments in 
community services and infrastructure. To maintain this balance, the City will periodically assess 
reserve policies to ensure adequate savings while identifying opportunities to invest in community 
enhancements.  The City will continue updating the General Fund's ten-year financial forecast to 
anticipate and address future fiscal challenges. The City also maintains a five-year capital improvement 
program to plan and prioritize critical infrastructure projects. 
 
For General Fund operations, revenues and expenditures are being closely monitored, supported by a 
ten-year forecast to help the organization maintain a long-term focus and allow sufficient time for 
thoughtful course corrections in the event of a structural imbalance. Major General Fund revenues will 
be carefully tracked, particularly in light of uncertainties that could impact revenue growth. These 
uncertainties include VLF shortfall, slowing sales tax, economic conditions and events that affect 
Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) and real property transfer tax revenues. 
 
103 of 356

--- page 104 ---
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL 
 
xii 
AWARDS AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS  
 
The Government Finance Officers Association of the United States and Canada (GFOA) awarded a 
Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting to the City for its ACFR for the fiscal 
year ended June 30, 2023.  The Certificate of Achievement is a national award recognizing conformance 
with the highest standards for preparation of state and local government financial reports. To be 
awarded a Certificate of Achievement, the City must publish an easily readable and efficiently 
organized ACFR. This report must satisfy both U.S. GAAP and applicable legal requirements. This was 
the thirty-fourth consecutive year that the City has received this award. A Certificate of Achievement 
is valid for one year only. We believe that this FY 2023-24 ACFR continues to conform to the Certificate 
of Achievement program requirements, and we will submit it to the GFOA to determine its eligibility 
for another certificate.  
 
The preparation of this ACFR could not have been accomplished without the efficient and dedicated 
service of the highly qualified staff in the Finance Department. The dedication and cooperation of staff 
in all City departments in the administration of financial policies throughout the year is also 
appreciated. Special thanks go to the City’s Acting Accounting Manager, Ha Tran, who oversaw the 
compilation and review of the financial statements. We also acknowledge the thorough and 
professional manner in which our independent auditors, The Pun Group, conducted their audit. 
 
In closing, City staff wishes to express deep appreciation to the City Council for their leadership, 
support, and responsiveness to the financial concerns of the City. 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
Karen Huang 
Finance Director
 
 
104 of 356

--- page 105 ---
City of San Mateo City Council Members 
2024 
Lisa Diaz Nash 
Mayor 
Rob Newsom Jr. 
Deputy Mayor 
Adam Loraine 
Council Member 
Rich Hedges 
Council Member 
Amourence Lee 
Council Member 
xiv
105 of 356

--- page 106 ---
XV

106 of 356


--- page 107 ---
City Organizational Chart
COMMUNITY  
DEVELOPMENT
PUBLIC 
WORKS
POLICE
PARKS &
RECREATION
LIBRARY
INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY
FINANCE
HUMAN
RESOURCES
OPERATING DEPARTMENTS
CITY MANAGER
CITY CLERK
CITY ATTORNEY
CITY COUNCIL
COMMUNITY OF SAN MATEO
BOARDS & COMMISSIONS
Civic Arts Committee
Community Relations Commission
Investment Advisory Committee
Library Board
Measure S Oversight Committee
Mosquito and Vector Control District
Parks & Recreation Commission
Personnel Board
Planning Commission
Senior Citizens Commission
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
Youth Advisory Council
Mayor
Deputy Mayor
Council Member
Council Member
Council Member
City Manager
City Attorney
City Council
Lisa Diaz Nash
Rob Newsom Jr.
Adam Loraine
Rich Hedges
Amourence Lee
Alex Khojikian
Prasanna Rasiah
Assistant City Manager 
City Clerk
City Librarian
Community Development Director
Finance Director
Interim Human Resources Director 
Information Technology Director
Parks and Recreation Director
Police Chief
Public Works Director
Department Heads
Christina Horrisberger
Martin McTaggart
James Moore
Zach Dahl
Karen Huang
Shawnna Maltbie
Pete Owen
Joanne Magrini
Ed Barberini
Matt Fabry
xvi
107 of 356

--- page 108 ---
Government Finance Officers Association
Certificate of 
Achievement
for Excellence
in Financial 
Reporting
Presented to
City of San Mateo
California
For its Annual Comprehensive
Financial Report
For the Fiscal Year Ended
June 30, 2023
Executive Director/CEO
xvii
108 of 356

--- page 109 ---
This page intentionally left blank. 
109 of 356

--- page 110 ---
2121 North California Blvd., Suite 290 
Walnut Creek, California  94596 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 
 
 
To the Honorable Mayor and Members  
of the City Council of the City of San Mateo 
San Mateo, California 
 
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements 
 
Opinions  
 
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of the governmental activities, the business-type activities, 
each major fund, and the aggregate remaining fund information of the City of San Mateo, California (the “City”), as 
of and for the year ended June 30, 2024, and the related notes to the basic financial statements, which collectively 
comprise the City’s basic financial statements as listed in the table of contents. 
 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the respective 
financial position of the governmental activities, each major fund, and the aggregate remaining fund information of 
the City, as of June 30, 2024, and the respective changes in financial position and, where applicable, cash flows 
thereof for the year then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of 
America. 
 
Basis for Opinions 
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and 
the standards applicable to financial audits contained in Government Auditing Standards, issued by the Comptroller 
General of the United States. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We are required to be independent of 
the City, and to meet our other ethical responsibilities, in accordance with the relevant ethical requirements relating to 
our audit. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
audit opinions.  
 
Responsibilities of Management for the Financial Statements 
 
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with 
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and for the design, implementation, and 
maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
 
In preparing the financial statements, management is required to evaluate whether there are conditions or events, 
considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the City’s ability to continue as a going concern for 
twelve months beyond the financial statement date, including any currently known information that may raise 
substantial doubt shortly thereafter. 
110 of 356

--- page 111 ---
To the Honorable Mayor and Members  
of the City Council of the City of San Mateo 
San Mateo, California 
Page 2 
 
2 
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinions. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not absolute assurance and therefore is not a guarantee that an 
audit conducted in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and 
Government Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. The risk of not detecting a 
material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. Misstatements are considered 
material if there is a substantial likelihood that, individually or in the aggregate, they would influence the judgment 
made by a reasonable user based on the financial statements. 
 
In performing an audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and 
Government Auditing Standards, we: 
 
 
Exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. 
 
 
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or 
error, and design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks. Such procedures include examining, 
on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. 
 
 
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the 
City’s internal control. Accordingly, no such opinion is expressed. 
 
 
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by management, as well as evaluate the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
 
 
Conclude whether, in our judgment, there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise 
substantial doubt about the City’s ability to continue as a going concern for a reasonable period of time. 
 
We are required to communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned 
scope and timing of the audit, significant audit findings, and certain internal control-related matters that we identified 
during the audit. 
 
Required Supplementary Information  
 
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America require that the Management’s Discussion 
and Analysis, Budgetary Comparison Schedules, Schedule of City’s Proportionate Share of the Net Pension Liability 
and Related Ratios, Schedules of Contributions – Pension, and Schedule of Changes in Total OPEB Liability and 
Related Ratios, as listed in the accompanying table of contents, be presented to supplement the basic financial 
statements. Such information, although not a part of the basic financial statements, is required by the Governmental 
Accounting Standards Board who considers it to be an essential part of financial reporting for placing the basic 
financial statements in an appropriate operational, economic, or historical context. We have applied certain limited 
procedures to the required supplementary information in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the 
United States of America, which consisted of inquiries of management about the methods of preparing the 
information and comparing the information for consistency with management’s responses to our inquiries, the basic 
financial statements, and other knowledge we obtained during our audit of the basic financial statements. We do not 
express an opinion or provide any assurance on the information because the limited procedures do not provide us with 
sufficient evidence to express an opinion or provide any assurance. 
 
111 of 356

--- page 112 ---
To the Honorable Mayor and Members  
of the City Council of the City of San Mateo 
San Mateo, California 
Page 3 
 
3 
Supplementary Information 
 
Our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming opinions on the financial statements that collectively comprise 
the City’s basic financial statements. The Combining and Individual Fund Financial Statements, Budgetary 
Comparison Schedules, Schedule of Assessments, and Impact Fees and Related Expenditures are presented for 
purposes of additional analysis and are not a required part of the basic financial statements. Such information is the 
responsibility of management and was derived from and relates directly to the underlying accounting and other 
records used to prepare the basic financial statements. The information has been subjected to the auditing procedures 
applied in the audit of the basic financial statements and certain additional procedures, including comparing and 
reconciling such information directly to the underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the basic 
financial statements or to the basic financial statements themselves, and other additional procedures in accordance 
with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. In our opinion, the Combining and 
Individual Fund Financial Statements, Budgetary Comparison Schedules, and the Schedule of Assessment and Impact 
Fees and Related Expenditures are fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the basic financial statements as 
a whole. 
 
Other Information 
 
Management is responsible for the other information included in the annual report. The other information comprises 
the Introductory and Statistical Sections but does not include the basic financial statements and our auditors’ report 
thereon. Our opinions on the basic financial statements do not cover the other information, and we do not express an 
opinion or any form of assurance thereon. 
 
In connection with our audit of the basic financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and 
consider whether a material inconsistency exists between the other information and the basic financial statements, or 
the other information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work performed, we conclude that 
an uncorrected material misstatement of the other information exists, we are required to describe it in our report. 
 
Other Reporting Required by Government Auditing Standards  
 
In accordance with Government Auditing Standards, we have also issued our report dated January 21, 2025, on our 
consideration of the City’s internal control over financial reporting and on our tests of its compliance with certain 
provisions of laws, regulations, contracts, and grant agreements and other matters. The purpose of that report is solely 
to describe the scope of our testing of internal control over financial reporting and compliance and the results of that 
testing, and not to provide an opinion on the effectiveness of the City’s internal control over financial reporting or on 
compliance. That report is an integral part of an audit performed in accordance with Government Auditing Standards 
in considering the City’s internal control over financial reporting and compliance. 
 
Walnut Creek, California  
January 21, 2025 
112 of 356

--- page 113 ---
4 
This page intentionally left blank. 
113 of 356

--- page 114 ---
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 
5 
 
Management of the City of San Mateo (City) offers readers of the financial statements this narrative overview 
and analysis of the financial activities of the City for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024. Readers are 
encouraged to consider the information presented here in conjunction with additional information that is 
furnished in our letter of transmittal, the financial statements, and notes. The focus of the information herein 
is on the primary government.  
 
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS  
 
 
 
The City’s assets and deferred outflows of resources exceeded liabilities and deferred inflows of 
resources by $860.8 million (net position), which is a $73.5 million increase compared to the beginning 
net position.  The total net position includes $618.8 million in net investment in capital assets, $111.2 
million in restricted net position, and $130.7 million in unrestricted net position.  
 
 
Total government-wide revenues from all sources were $322.1 million experiencing a growth of $16.9 
million from the prior year. Total revenues for governmental activities grew $18.1 million from the 
previous year largely due to increases in charges for services and improvements in investment earnings. 
Business-type activities saw a net decrease of $1.2 million in revenues compared to the prior year 
primarily attributed to decrease in capital contributions from the sewer enterprise’s regional customers. 
 
 
During the fiscal year, the City used a portion of WIFIA loan proceeds to defease the City’s 2021 
Wastewater Revenue Notes, Series B. The defeasance resulted in an increase of $15.6 million in deferred 
gain on refunding compared to the prior fiscal year.  
 
 
Governmental funds reported combined fund balances of $276.1 million, an increase of $12.7 million or 
4.8% in comparison with the prior year.  Of the total fund balance, $105.7 million is available for 
spending at the City’s discretion (unassigned fund balance).  
 
 
The Enterprise Fund net position increased by $54.7 million to $390.6 million.  Of this amount, $184.6 
million was unrestricted net position and available for use at the City’s discretion.  
 
 
At June 30, 2024, the General Fund’s total fund balance was $118.0 million.  The General Fund recorded 
$170.0 million in total revenues, $157.6 million in expenditures, and $12.3 million in other financing uses, 
leading to a nearly breakeven fiscal year.  
 
114 of 356

--- page 115 ---
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 
6 
 
OVERVIEW OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
 
 
This discussion and analysis are intended to serve as an introduction to the City’s basic financial statements. 
The basic financial statements are comprised of three components: 1) government-wide financial statements, 
2) fund financial statements, and 3) notes to the financial statements. In addition to the basic financial 
statements, this report also contains the required supplementary information. 
 
GOVERNMENT-WIDE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
The government-wide financial statements are designed to provide readers with a broad overview of the 
City’s finances, in a manner similar to private-sector businesses. 
 
The Statement of Net Position presents information on all of the City’s assets, liabilities, and deferred outflows 
and inflows of resources, with the difference reported as net position. Over time, increases or decreases in net 
position may serve as a useful indicator of whether the City’s financial position is improving or deteriorating. 
 
The Statement of Activities reports how the City's net position changed during the most recent fiscal year. 
All changes in net position are reported as soon as the underlying event giving rise to the change occurs, 
regardless of the timing of related cash flows. Thus, revenues and expenses are reported in this statement for 
some items that will only result in cash flows in future fiscal periods (e.g., uncollected taxes, loan receivables, 
and earned but unused compensated leaves). 
 
The governmental activities reflect the City’s basic services, including general government, community 
development, public safety, public works, parks and recreation, and library. These services are principally 
financed by property, sales, and other taxes. 
 
The business-type activities reflect private-sector-type operations where fees for services typically cover all 
or most of the cost of operations, including depreciation expenses. The City’s sewer enterprise is the activity 
reported in this category. 
 
The government-wide financial statements include not only the City itself (referred to as the primary 
government), but also other legally separate entities for which the City is financially accountable. Financial 
information for the City’s one component unit, which is the San Mateo Joint Powers Financing Authority, is 
reported separately from the financial information presented for the primary government itself. The 
component unit, although legally separate, functions essentially as an agency of the City, and therefore is 
included as an integral part of the City. The government-wide financial statements can be found on pages 30- 
33 of this report. 
 
FUND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
A fund is a grouping of related accounts that is used to maintain control over resources that have been 
segregated for specific activities or objectives. The City uses fund accounting to ensure and demonstrate 
compliance with finance-related legal requirements. All the funds of the City can be divided into three 
categories: governmental funds, proprietary funds, and fiduciary funds. 
 
115 of 356

--- page 116 ---
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 
7 
 
Governmental funds are used to account for essentially the same functions reported as governmental 
activities in the government-wide financial statements. Governmental fund financial statements focus on 
near-term inflows and outflows of spendable resources, as well as on balances left at year-end that are 
available for spending. Consequently, the governmental fund financial statements provide a detailed short- 
term view that helps the readers determine whether there are more or fewer financial resources that can be 
spent in the near future to finance the City’s programs. Because this information does not encompass the 
long-term focus of the government-wide statements, additional information is provided that reconciles the 
governmental fund financial statements to the government-wide statements explaining the relationship (or 
differences) between them. 
 
The governmental funds comprise 25 individual funds. Information is presented separately in the 
governmental funds balance sheet and in the governmental funds statement of revenues, expenditures, and 
changes in fund balances of the General and Capital Projects funds, each of which is a major fund. Data for the 
other 19 governmental funds are combined into a single aggregated presentation. Individual fund data for 
these non-major governmental funds is provided in the form of combining statements, beginning on page 140 
of this report. The basic governmental fund financial statements can be found on pages 39-42 of this report. 
 
Since July 1, 1986, the City has employed a two-year budget cycle. The two-year budget process includes 
preparation of two one-year expenditure plans and revenue estimates that are presented to the City Council 
for consideration. The focus of the first year of the business plan is the City’s operating budget, while the focus 
of the second year of the business plan is the City’s Capital Improvement Plan. In any budget cycle, to remain 
adaptable to changing economic and/or operational conditions, the City may choose to develop one- year 
instead of two-year budget plans.  
 
Budgetary comparison schedules, beginning on page 128, have been provided to demonstrate compliance with 
these budgets in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). 
 
The City maintains two types of proprietary funds: enterprise and internal service. Enterprise funds are used 
to report the same functions presented as business-type activities in the government-wide financial statements. 
The City uses an enterprise fund to account for its Sewer Fund. Internal service funds are an accounting device 
used to accumulate and allocate costs internally among the City’s various functions. The City uses internal 
service funds to account for its general liability, fleet and building maintenance, vehicle and equipment 
replacement, workers’ compensation, dental, and other employee benefit programs. The internal service funds 
provide services that predominantly benefit governmental rather than business-type functions. They have 
been included within governmental activities to reflect the consolidation for internal services fund activities 
in the government-wide financial statements. 
 
Proprietary funds provide the same type of information as the government-wide financial statements, only in 
more detail. The proprietary fund financial statements provide separate information for the Sewer Fund. Data 
for the enterprise fund and all the internal service funds are combined into their respective single aggregated 
presentations. Individual fund data for the non-major internal service funds is provided in the form of 
combining statements elsewhere in this report. The basic proprietary fund financial statements can be found 
on pages 45-49 of this report. 
 
116 of 356

--- page 117 ---
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 
8 
 
Fiduciary funds are used to account for resources held on behalf of outside parties, including other 
governments. When these assets are held under the terms of formal trust agreement, a private-purpose trust 
is used. The City maintains a private-purpose trust fund for the Successor Agency of the City of San Mateo 
Redevelopment Agency (Successor Agency). In addition, the City uses custodial funds for assets that the City 
are holding for San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department, the Community Facilities District No. 2008-01 (Bay 
Meadows), and other entities. Fiduciary funds generally are used to account for assets that the City holds on 
behalf of others as their agent. Fiduciary funds are not reported in the government-wide financial statements 
because the resources of these funds are not available to support the City’s own programs. The accounting 
used for fiduciary funds is much like that used for proprietary funds. The basic fiduciary fund financial 
statements can be found on pages 53-54 of this report. 
 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements provide additional information that is essential to a full 
understanding of the data provided in the government-wide and fund financial statements. The notes to the 
basic financial statements can be found on pages 61-123 of this report. 
 
Other information in addition to the basic financial statements and accompanying notes is presented in the 
form of certain required supplementary information concerning the City’s budgetary comparison schedules 
for all major governmental funds and the City’s progress in funding its obligation for the provision of pension 
and other post-employment benefits to its employees. The combining statements supplementary information 
referred to earlier in connection with non-major funds and internal services funds are also presented in this 
section. Required supplementary information can be found on pages 125-135 of this report. 
 
117 of 356

--- page 118 ---
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 
9 
 
GOVERNMENT-WIDE FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  
 
 
As noted earlier, net position may serve over time as a useful indicator of a government's financial 
performance. At the close of the fiscal year, the City’s assets and deferred outflows exceeded liabilities and 
deferred inflows of resources by $860.8 million. 
 
The tables on the following pages present a summary and net changes of the City’s net position as of 
June 30, 2024, and June 30, 2023. 
 
 
118 of 356

--- page 119 ---
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 
10 
 
Certain reclassifications of amounts previously reported have been made to the accompanying financial statements to 
maintain consistency between periods presented. The reclassifications had no impact on previously reported net assets.   
 
As of June 30, 2024, the City reported $618.9 million (71.9%) in net position for its net investment in capital 
assets (e.g., land, buildings, infrastructure, machinery, and equipment), net of accumulated depreciation and 
less any related debt used to acquire those assets that is still outstanding. The City uses these capital assets 
to provide services to the community; consequently, these assets are not available for future spending. 
Although the City’s investment in its capital assets is reported net of related debt, it should be noted that the 
resources needed to repay this debt must be provided from other sources, since the capital assets themselves 
cannot be used to liquidate these liabilities. 
 
The City also reported $111.2 million (12.9%) in restricted net position. These are resources subject to 
external restrictions as to how they may be used, such as housing and economic development, capital projects, 
debt service, and other purposes. 
 
The remaining $130.7 million in net position is unrestricted, representing 15.2% of the total net position. The 
unrestricted net position is available to fund day-to-day operations without any constraints established by 
debt covenants or other legal requirements or restrictions.  
 
 
In governmental activities, unrestricted net position increased by $2.8 million, improving from a 
deficit balance of $56.7 million to a deficit of $53.9 million at June 30, 2024. The key factors of this 
increase included a reduction in claims payable based on the result of the latest actuarial valuation, 
one-time revenues from new development projects, and better-than-expected investment earnings.  
These increases were partially offset by increases in pension and OPEB liabilities.  While the 
unrestricted net position improved, it remained in deficit, primarily due to the net pension liabilities 
of $269.0 million and net OPEB liabilities of $9.5 million.    
 
 
In business-type activities, unrestricted net position increased by $20.5 million, rising from $164.1 
million in the prior year to $184.6 million as of June 30, 2024. This increase was primarily driven by net 
income from the Sewer Fund operations.   
 
The City’s overall net position increased $73.5 million from the previous year.  The reasons for this overall 
increase are discussed in the following sections for the governmental activities and business-type activities.  
 
 
 
 
119 of 356

--- page 120 ---
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
120 of 356

--- page 121 ---
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 
12 
 
GOVERNMENTAL ACTIVITIES 
 
Governmental activities increased the City’s total net position by $18.8 million. Key elements contributing to 
the increase are described below. 
 
• 
Overall, total revenues from governmental activities were $222.4 million, a $18.1 million increase 
compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily attributed to the higher investment returns and charges 
for services. For the same period, expenses totaled $203.6 million, a decrease of $0.4 million from prior 
year.   
 
• 
Property tax revenues in the governmental funds totaled $81.3 million, a decrease of $2.0 million or 
2.4%.  Property tax revenues were largely comprised of secured current year property taxes, property 
tax in-lieu of vehicle license fees (VLF), and Excess Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund (ERAF). 
Secured property tax represented 62.6% of all property tax revenues and increased by $2.2 million 
compared to the prior fiscal year, driven by new developments and reassessment of sold properties.  
However, this increase was offset by a decrease in VLF revenue. For fiscal year 2023-24, VLF owed to 
the City was $15.7 million, but only $9.1 million was received, resulting in a VLF shortfall of $6.6 
million.  The County of San Mateo has filed a claim with the State of California in August 2024 for VLF 
shortfall backfill in the State’s 2025-26 budget.  Due to a two-year gap, the City received $1.9 million of 
the 2021-22 VLF shortfall in the fiscal year 2023-24, bring the total VLF revenue to $11.0 million, a 
decrease of $5.4 million from the prior year.  
 
• 
Real property transfer tax revenues totaled $8.6 million, an increase of $1.2 million from $7.4 million in 
the previous year.  While real property transfer tax revenues have declined over the last two years due 
to high interest rates, the passage of Measure CC in 2022 allowed the City to impose an additional 1% 
real property transfer tax on properties sold or transferred with a value of $10 million or more.  In fiscal 
year 2023-24, for the first time since its passage, the City received $0.9 million Measure CC revenue, 
which was the primary driver of the increase of the total real property transfer tax revenues.   
 
• 
The City recorded $32.4 million in sales tax revenues, a decrease of $1.9 million (or 5.5%) compared to 
the prior fiscal year.  This decline was partially due to decreases in auto sales, and a reduction in sales 
tax allocation from the County pool. 
 
• 
Transient occupancy tax (TOT) revenues decreased from $7.1 million in the prior year to $6.2 million 
in 2023-24, primarily due to the closure of the Marriott Hotel.   Of the $6.2 million in total TOT revenues, 
$5.3 million was recorded in the General Fund and the remaining in the 2% Hotel Tax Fund.  
 
• 
The City’s governmental activities accounted for $40.1 million in charges for services revenue, which 
was an increase of $2.7 million (or 7.2%) compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily in parks and 
recreation, community development, and public works.  This reflects the return of the program 
revenues to normal operational levels.  
 
 
 
121 of 356

--- page 122 ---
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 
13 
 
The following charts of governmental activities revenue by source, expense, and program revenue were 
derived from the Statement of Activities. 
 
 
Charges for 
services
18%
Operating grants 
and 
contributions
5%
Capital grants and 
contributions
6%
Property 
taxes
36%
Sales taxes
15%
Property transfer 
taxes
4%
Business, hotel & 
other taxes
7%
Franchise taxes
1%
Investment 
income and 
other revenue
8%
REVENUE BY SOURCES
GOVERNMENTAL ACTIVITIES
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2024
122 of 356

--- page 123 ---
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 
14 
 
 
 
The cost of all governmental activities for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, was $203.6 million. Some of the 
costs were paid by those directly benefiting from the programs ($40.1 million), by other governments and 
organizations which subsidized programs with operating grants and contributions ($11.0 million), or capital 
grants and contributions ($13.2 million).  
 
BUSINESS-TYPE ACTIVITIES 
Business-type activities increased the City’s net position by $54.7 million. Key elements contributing to the 
increase are described below. 
 
• 
Total program revenues of $99.7 million, a reduction of $1.2 million from the prior year. This was 
primarily due to a $7.3 million decrease in capital grants and contributions, which was partially offset 
by a $3.3 million increase in charges in services.  
• 
Charges for services increased by $3.3 million to $81.3 million in 2023-24, from $78.0 million in the prior 
year, primarily due to a 3% increase in the City’s sewer service rates. 
• 
The $7.3 million decrease in capital grants and contributions was primarily due to the Interim Capital 
Cost Agreement between the City of San Mateo and the Town of Hillsborough for the latter’s share of 
costs for the Clean Water Program. Since the Government-Wide Financial Statements (as well as the 
Sewer Enterprise Fund) are accounted on a full accrual basis, the full amount due from the Town of 
Hillsborough is recognized as revenue although it will be paid over 30 years (discounted by the 
percentage of project completion). During the current fiscal year, the City recognized $6.1 million 
capital contribution due from the Town of Hillsborough compared to $10.7 million in previous year.   
 
123 of 356

--- page 124 ---
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 
15 
 
The following charts of business-type activities revenue by source, expense, and program revenues were 
derived from the Statement of Activities. 
 
 
 
 
124 of 356

--- page 125 ---
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 
16 
 
 
 
Total business-type activities expenses and transfers out for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 were $45.0 
million, an increase of $1.4 million or 3.2%, compared to the prior year.  This increase reflects the rising cost of doing 
business amid sustained inflation. 
 
Cash and investments of business-type activities totaled $133.4 million, a reduction of $5.0 million compared 
to $138.4 million in the prior year, mainly due to investment in capital improvement projects. Higher 
investment income and increase in business-type activities charges for services, were the primary driver 
behind the healthy cash position, which is intentional to provide strong liquidity during the construction phase 
of the Clean Water Program, as well as a robust debt coverage ratio consistent with the Sewer enterprise’s AA 
credit rating.  
 
Business type activities non-depreciable assets increased from $534.7 million to $613.7 million, reflecting 
increased Sewer capital projects construction activities for the sewer collection and treatment systems during 
the fiscal year. 
 
 
125 of 356

--- page 126 ---
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 
17 
 
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF THE CITY’S FUNDS  
 
 
As noted earlier, the City uses fund accounting to ensure and demonstrate compliance with finance related 
legal requirements. 
 
GOVERNMENTAL FUNDS 
The focus of the City’s governmental funds is to provide information on current year revenues, expenditures, 
and balances of spendable resources. Such information is useful in assessing the City’s near-term financing 
requirements. In particular, unassigned fund balance may serve as a useful measure of a government’s net 
resources available for spending at the end of the fiscal year. 
 
As of June 30, 2024, the City’s governmental funds combined ending fund balance was $276.1 million, which 
was an increase of $12.7 million from the prior fiscal year. Of the total fund balances, $105.7 million is 
unassigned fund balance, which is available for spending at the City’s discretion. 
 
The General Fund is the primary operating fund of the City, as it accounts for nearly all tax revenues and the 
cost of core services. The unassigned fund balance of the General Fund was $105.7 million, while the total 
fund balance was $118.0 million. As a measure of liquidity, both unassigned fund balance and total fund 
balance can be compared to total fund expenditures. Unassigned fund balance and total fund balance 
represent approximately 67.1% and 74.9% of total General Fund expenditures of $157.6 million, respectively. 
The City Council policy goal is to have reserves of at least three months of budgeted operating expenditures. 
The adopted 2023-24 budget for General Fund expenditures (excluding transfers out) was $157.5 million, 
therefore the minimum amount of General Fund reserves required for compliance with the reserves policy in 
2023-24 was $39.4 million.  
 
While the City’s unassigned fund balance is above the policy goal, the uncertainties of the future trends of 
the TOT recovery, VLF shortfall, and the impact of CalPERS investment performance on the City’s pension 
contributions will likely result in a significant draw down on the General Fund’s Rainy-Day Reserve, which 
is included as part of the unassigned fund balance.  
 
Governmental funds revenues, expenditures, and change in fund balances for the last ten fiscal year can be  
found under the Statistical Section of this report. 
 
The City will continue to monitor economic indicators that impact the City’s tax revenues and expenditures, 
including: 
 
 
Ongoing elevated inflation, increasing the cost to purchase goods and services. 
 
The Federal Reserve’s efforts to mitigate inflation by increasing the Federal Funds Rate, which ultimately 
increases the City’s investment earnings, but as interest rates climb higher, the GASB 31 fair market value 
adjustment may be negative. Conversely, if the City issues debt during this time, it will incur greater 
interest expense. 
 
The increased cost to borrow money, which places pressure on the prospective home buyers, will likely 
dampen the City’s real property transfer tax. 
 
 
126 of 356

--- page 127 ---
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 
18 
 
General Fund 
The General Fund is the City’s primary operating fund, supporting core services and accounting for the 
majority of tax revenues.  In FY 2023-24, General Fund total revenues increased by $6.4 million or 3.9% to 
$170.0 million.  Major revenues include: 
 
Property Tax    
Property tax remains the City’s largest and most stable revenue source, generating $78.6 million in FY 2023-
24, $2.0 million less than the prior fiscal year.  Although secured property tax continued to grow, decline was 
due to the shortfall in Vehicle License Fee (VLF) in-lieu property tax revenue. 
 
Sales Tax 
Sales tax revenue, the second largest revenue, decreased by $1.8 million (6.1%) to $27.8 million.  The decrease 
was primarily due to reduced auto sales and a lower sales tax allocation from the County pool. 
 
Other Taxes 
Other taxes, primarily consisting of Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT), real property transfer tax (RPTT), 
business tax and franchise fees, totaled $25.9 million in FY 2023-24, reflecting a slight decrease of $0.2 million 
from the previous year.   TOT generated $5.3 million, RPTT $8.7 million, business tax $8.5 million, and 
franchise and other taxes $3.4 million.  TOT revenue declined due to the Marriot Hotel closure. This decrease 
was partially offset by a $1.2 million (16%) increase in RPTT, which was primarily attributed to Measure CC. 
 
Investment Income 
Investment income saw the largest growth, increased by $8.1 million -- from $0.4 million to $8.5 million – due 
to higher yields and mark-to-market unrealized gain as of June 30, 2024.  
 
Charges for Services 
Revenues from charges for services increased by $1.8 million (13.0%) to $15.6 million, primarily due to stronger 
revenues from encroachment permits, golf operations and recreation programs. 
 
Expenditures 
General Fund expenditures totaled $157.6 million, increased by $7.7 million (5.1%) compared to the prior year.  
The increase was due to negotiated labor cost increases and rising operating expenses linked to inflation.   
 
Fund Balance 
For FY 2023-24, the General Fund’s total revenues ($170.0 million) exceeded expenditures ($157.6 million) by 
$12.4 million, before $12.3 million of other financing uses – which was primarily transfers out to capital projects 
fund and debt service funds, net of transfers in from other funds. This resulted in a net fund balance increase 
of $0.1 million, increasing the General Fund balance to $118.0 million.  
 
General Capital Projects Fund 
The General Capital Projects Fund was established to account for the City’s major infrastructure improvement 
needs and other capital projects. At the close of FY 2023-24, the fund has a fund balance of $58.8 million, 
increasing by $4.6 million (8.5%) from the prior fiscal year. Total expenditures were $26.8 million, funding 
various capital projects, including $11.8 million for the citywide street rehabilitation and reconstruction 
program, $1.7 million for storm and flood control improvements, $2.6 million for parks projects, and $7.9 
million for city facilities and technology upgrades. The citywide street reconstruction projects specifically 
targeted streets identified as failed in 2013, while rehabilitation projects focused on street resurfacing, with the 
goal to maintain the City’s Pavement Condition Index (PCI) at or above 70. 
127 of 356

--- page 128 ---
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 
19 
 
Construction Services Fund 
The Construction Services Fund was established to account for building permit revenue and expenditures for 
activities relating to private development projects. In FY 2023-24, the Construction Services Fund no longer 
met the criteria to be reported as a major fund. The change resulted in adjustments to and a restatement of 
beginning fund balance. Further details were provided in the notes to the basic financial statements on page 
122 of this report. 
 
PROPRIETARY FUNDS 
Proprietary Funds are comprised of enterprise and internal service funds. The City’s proprietary funds 
provide the same type of information found in the government-wide financial statements, but with some 
additional details. 
 
Enterprise Fund 
The City has a sewer enterprise operation. Total enterprise fund net position was $390.6 million, an increase 
of $54.7 million, or 16.3%, over the prior fiscal year.  
 
The unrestricted net position of the Sewer Enterprise Fund at the end of the fiscal year was $184.6 million, an 
increase of $20.5 million from the prior fiscal year. This is due primarily to the scheduled rate increase and 
capital contributions for CIP projects. The scheduled rate increase ensure the Sewer Enterprise Fund maintains 
a strong cash position and debt service coverage ratio, aligned with the operational and capital project needs.  
This financial strength supports the fund’s high credit rating and ensures compliance with its debt coverage 
requirements pursuant to debt indentures. 
 
Internal Service Funds 
The internal service funds’ total net position of $25.5 million increased by $10.0 million or 64.5% from the 
prior year. The unrestricted net position at the end of the year was $18.4 million, or 72.2% of total net position. 
The current year’s decrease in total net position of the internal service funds is due to a variety of factors that 
are discussed in more detail below. 
 
Workers’ Compensation Insurance Fund’s net position increased by $1.2 million to $7.6 million. Revenue 
from charges for services is set based on budget projections. The City continues to balance the workers’ 
compensation collection rate charged to operating departments with proactive programs aimed at reducing 
frequency and severity of workers’ compensation claims. 
 
The Dental Fund ended the fiscal year with a net position of $0.9 million, a slight decrease of $0.1 million 
compared to the prior year. The Benefits Fund’s ending net position was $1.1 million, an increase of $0.5 
million compared to the prior year. 
 
The Comprehensive Liability Insurance Fund’s ending net position was negative $2.4 million, a significant 
improvement of $9.6 million, primarily due to resolved litigations resulting in lower claims payable. 
 
128 of 356

--- page 129 ---
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 
20 
 
The Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund ended fiscal year with a net position of $18.1 million, a 
decrease of $0.7 million or 3.7% compared to the prior fiscal year. This slight decline indicates that the current 
collection rates adequately cover vehicle and equipment replacement costs. 
 
The Fleet and Building Maintenance Fund ended the year with a net position of $0.2 million, a decrease of 
$0.6 million from the prior fiscal year. While the current collection rates remain adequate, an increase in 
recovery rates may deem necessary in future years to maintain the fund’s long-term sustainability. 
 
GENERAL FUND BUDGETARY HIGHLIGHTS  
 
 
The General Fund adopted budget for FY 2023-24 reflected a $12.6 million deficit. The final budget increased 
by $6.0 million, raising the total deficit to $17.3 million. However, by the close of FY 2023-24, actual revenues 
closely matched total expenditures. As a result, the General Fund experienced a break-even year, with actual 
revenues exceeding budget projections and actual spending coming in under budget. The following schedule 
summarizes the General Fund budgetary comparison for the current fiscal year (amounts in millions). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General Fund total resources - actual revenues and transfers in were $12.9 million more than the final budgeted 
estimate, while total charges – actual expenditures and transfers out were $4.5 million under the final budget. 
At the end of the fiscal year, the total fund balance of the General Fund was $118.0 million, which was the same 
compared to the prior fiscal year. 
 
129 of 356

--- page 130 ---
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 
21 
 
The following schedule shows differences between the final estimated revenues and actual revenues of 
greater than $1.0 million in value (amounts in millions). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Actual revenues outperformed estimates in most categories.  Notably, investment income exceeded 
expectations by $6.7 million, and charges for services brought in $2.8 million more than estimated. Property 
taxes, other taxes, and parking meter and lease revenue also performed better than budget projections. 
However, sales taxes fell short by $3.4 million largely due to decrease in auto and County pool allocation.  
 
Actual expenditure and transfers out was $4.5 million less than the final budget. The largest favorable variance 
was from the Public Works and Parks and Recreation departments.  
 
130 of 356

--- page 131 ---
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 
22 
 
CAPITAL ASSETS AND LONG-TERM DEBT ADMINISTRATION  
 
 
CAPITAL ASSETS 
The City’s investment in capital assets for its governmental and business-type activities as of June 30, 2024, 
amounts to $1.3 billion, which is $91.6 million more than the prior year. This investment in capital assets 
includes land, buildings, improvements, machinery and equipment, construction in progress, and 
infrastructure - park facilities, roads, highways, bridges, lighting systems, sewer and storm systems, and the 
golf course. Major capital asset activity during the current fiscal year included city-wide sanitary sewer and 
storm improvements, and city-wide street rehabilitation and reconstruction. Additional information on the 
City’s capital assets can be found in Note 6 on pages 90-91 of this report. 
 
131 of 356

--- page 132 ---
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 
23 
 
 
LONG-TERM DEBT 
 
At the end of the current fiscal year, the City had total long-term debt outstanding of $700.7 million. Of this 
amount, $14.0 million comprises debt backed by the full faith and credit of the City. The remainder of 
outstanding debt is primarily composed of bonds and loans secured by specified revenue sources; e.g., sewer 
charges and loans. 
 
 
 
The City’s rating for General Obligation Bonds is AA+ from Standard & Poor’s and AAA from Moody’s. 
Standard & Poor’s has assigned a rating of Aa2 for the City’s revenue bonds.  
 
State statutes limit the amount of general obligation debt a governmental entity may issue to 15% of its total 
assessed valuation. The current debt limitation for the City is approximately $5.6 billion, and at June 30, 2024, 
the City was only at 0.25% of its legal debt limit. Additional information on the City of San Mateo’s long-term 
debt can be found in Note 7 and statistical section of this report. 
 
 
ECONOMIC FACTORS AND NEXT YEAR’S BUDGET  
 
 
 
The City of San Mateo continues to benefit from a strong regional economy characterized by low 
unemployment and steady economic growth. As of June 2024, San Mateo County's unemployment rate 
remains under 4%, reflecting a strong local job market that outperforms the state average. This economic 
strength has supported stable revenue streams for the City, despite challenges in specific sectors. 
 
The real estate market has shown signs of slowing during FY 2023-24 due to the sustained high-interest rate 
environment. While property sales activity has cooled, the median home price in San Mateo has remained 
stable and even shown increases, demonstrating the City housing market’s resilience and strength. Near the 
end of FY 2023-24, several commercial properties changed ownership, and this trend continued into the new 
fiscal year.  The City has seen increases in Real Property Transfer Tax (RPTT) revenue as a result.   
 
132 of 356

--- page 133 ---
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 
24 
 
General Fund 
 
Despite these positive factors, balancing the General Fund’s budget is a challenging.  While the City’s revenues 
are stable, expenditures have increased due to rising labor costs, sustained inflation, and the needs to continue 
to invest in the community to improve services. 
 
The General Fund is projecting a budget deficit in FY 2024-25, with $169.8 million in total revenues (including 
transfers in) and $180.4 million in expenditures (including transfers out), resulting in a deficit of $10.6 million.  
 
The adopted FY 2024-25 General Fund budget reflects careful planning of our financial resources, balancing 
the need to maintain high service levels with the realities of economic uncertainty. Modest revenue growth is 
projected across most major revenue sources, with particular attention to the performance of General Fund’s 
property tax (including VLF), sales tax, RPTT and TOT. Expenditure growth remains focused on maintaining 
essential services, with continued investments in public safety, infrastructure, and community services.  
 
Personnel costs, including negotiated salary adjustments and rising pension and healthcare contributions, 
continue to add pressure on the General Fund. These cost factors have been incorporated into the City's long-
term financial forecast. 
 
Due to proactive financial planning, the City maintains a healthy General Fund reserve, with over $118.0 
million as of June 30, 2024. This reserve offers the City a financial runway to develop and implement a 
comprehensive financial sustainability plan, which will focus on balancing the budget, continuing investment 
in facilities and infrastructure to meet community needs, and preserving the City’s long-term financial health. 
 
The FY 2024-25 budget reflects the City's commitment to fiscal responsibility. By leveraging its strong reserve 
position and adhering to prudent fiscal policies, the City is well-positioned to navigate future economic 
challenges while continuing to deliver high-quality services to the community. 
 
Capital Projects Fund 
 
In June 2024, City Council approved the five-year Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) and FY 2024-25 Capital 
Budget.  The five-year CIP totals $240.0 million, with $65.2 million for 2024-25.  New funding and major 
changes included: increases in funding for the Clean Water Program and the Sewer Collection System 
Rehabilitation Program, as well as new funding for the street rehabilitation and reconstruction projects, storm 
and flood control improvement projects, park projects, and city facilities and technology upgrades. 
 
Sewer Fund 
 
Sewer rates are scheduled to increase 3.0% in FY 2024-25. Revenues collected through the sewer service 
charges are used to fund sewer sanitary operations and capital improvement projects. San Mateo's upgraded 
wastewater treatment plant is scheduled to begin operations in 2025.  The project has achieved significant 
milestones, with Phase 3 construction approximately 85% complete as of June 2024. 
 
   
133 of 356

--- page 134 ---
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 
25 
 
REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION  
 
 
This financial report is designed to provide a general overview of the City of San Mateo’s finances for all 
those with an interest in the government's finances. Questions concerning any of the information provided in 
this report or requests for additional financial information should be addressed to the Finance Director, 330 
West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, California, 94403. 
134 of 356

--- page 135 ---
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
135 of 356

--- page 136 ---
BASIC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
27
136 of 356

--- page 137 ---
This page intentionally left blank.
28
137 of 356

--- page 138 ---
GOVERNMENT-WIDE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
29
138 of 356

--- page 139 ---
Governmental
Business-Type
Activities
Activities
Total
ASSETS
Current assets:
Cash and investments
326,227,149
$        
133,397,595
$        
459,624,744
$        
Accounts receivable, net
3,493,554
              
36,099,027
            
39,592,581
            
Interest receivable
2,210,243
              
643,703
                 
2,853,946
              
Taxes receivable
7,925,136
              
-
                            
7,925,136
              
Grants receivable
3,287,616
              
-
                            
3,287,616
              
Leases receivable - current
485,582
                 
-
                            
485,582
                 
Prepaid items, inventory, and deposits
908,933
                 
-
                            
908,933
                 
Total current assets
344,538,213
          
170,140,325
          
514,678,538
          
Noncurrent assets:
 
Restricted cash and investments
21,216,358
            
51,978,422
            
73,194,780
            
Investment in JPA 
12,740,381
            
-
                            
12,740,381
            
Leases receivable
9,546,992
              
-
                            
9,546,992
              
Loans and notes receivable, net 
3,893,484
              
38,999,057
            
42,892,541
            
Capital assets:
Non-depreciable
82,476,143
            
613,717,839
          
696,193,982
          
Depreciable/amortizable, net
400,058,126
          
170,526,248
          
570,584,374
          
Total capital assets
482,534,269
          
784,244,087
          
1,266,778,356
       
Total noncurrent assets
529,931,484
          
875,221,566
          
1,405,153,050
       
Total assets
874,469,697
          
1,045,361,891
       
1,919,831,588
       
 
DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Deferred loss on refunding
699,287
                 
-
                            
699,287
                 
Related to OPEB
4,543,847
              
674,767
                 
5,218,614
              
Related to pensions
52,666,966
            
4,950,503
              
57,617,469
            
Total deferred outflows of resources
57,910,100
            
5,625,270
              
63,535,370
            
 
June 30, 2024
Statement of Net Position
City of San Mateo
Primary Government
See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.
30
139 of 356

--- page 140 ---
Governmental
Business-Type
Activities
Activities
Total
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities:
 
Accounts payable
30,745,322
            
1,085,688
              
31,831,010
            
Retention payable
5,029,210
              
-
                            
5,029,210
              
Accrued payroll 
2,495,736
              
-
                            
2,495,736
              
Deposits payable
13,266,409
            
1,057,256
              
14,323,665
            
Interest payable
573,808
                 
6,722,343
              
7,296,151
              
Unearned revenue
5,652,816
              
-
                            
5,652,816
              
Compensated absences - due within one year
910,640
                 
121,123
                 
1,031,763
              
Claims payable - due within one year
4,044,000
              
-
                            
4,044,000
              
Landfill postclosure cost payable - due within one year
115,264
                 
-
                            
115,264
                 
Long-term debt - due within one year
5,873,007
              
1,997,968
              
7,870,975
              
Total current liabilities
68,706,212
            
10,984,378
            
79,690,590
            
Noncurrent liabilities:
Net OPEB liability
9,481,590
              
1,408,025
              
10,889,615
            
Net pension liability
269,036,271
          
18,451,401
            
287,487,672
          
Compensated absences - due in more than one year
7,367,905
              
979,997
                 
8,347,902
              
Claims payable - due in more than one year
13,854,000
            
-
                            
13,854,000
            
Landfill postclosure cost payable - due in more than one year
1,613,688
              
-
                            
1,613,688
              
Long-term debt - due in more than one year
80,695,504
            
612,085,555
          
692,781,059
          
Total noncurrent liabilities
382,048,958
          
632,924,978
          
1,014,973,936
       
Total liabilities
450,755,170
          
643,909,356
          
1,094,664,526
       
 
DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Deferred gain on refunding
-
                            
16,156,892
            
16,156,892
            
Related to leases
9,222,294
              
-
                            
9,222,294
              
Related to OPEB
1,783,054
              
264,788
                 
2,047,842
              
Related to pensions
414,055
                 
98,770
                   
512,825
                 
Total deferred inflows of resources
11,419,403
            
16,520,450
            
27,939,853
            
NET POSITION
Net investment in capital assets
412,852,193
          
205,982,094
          
618,834,287
          
Restricted:
Housing and economic development
11,827,816
            
-
                            
11,827,816
            
Capital projects
54,867,835
            
-
                            
54,867,835
            
Debt service
8,141,815
              
-
                            
8,141,815
              
Other purposes
36,377,646
            
-
                            
36,377,646
            
Total restricted
111,215,112
          
-
                            
111,215,112
          
Unrestricted (deficit)
(53,862,081)
          
184,575,261
          
130,713,180
          
470,205,224
$        
390,557,355
$        
860,762,579
$        
Total net position 
Primary Government
City of San Mateo
Statement of Net Position (Continued)
June 30, 2024
See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.
31
140 of 356

--- page 141 ---
Operating
Capital
Charges for 
Grants and
Grants and
Functions/Programs
Expenses
Services
Contributions
Contributions
Total
Primary government:
 
 
Governmental activities:
 
General government
27,773,248
$       
6,755,941
$         
1,658,225
$         
241,646
$            
8,655,812
$         
Community development
14,269,937
         
12,636,122
         
1,189,784
           
-
                          
13,825,906
         
Public safety
92,903,796
         
4,132,856
           
1,963,540
           
-
                          
6,096,396
           
Public works
31,088,776
         
8,506,152
           
5,548,368
           
5,486,731
           
19,541,251
         
Parks and recreation
24,598,631
         
7,662,922
           
313,404
              
7,519,597
           
15,495,923
         
Library
10,598,001
         
381,127
              
330,136
              
-
                          
711,263
              
Interest on long-term debt
2,407,407
           
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Total governmental activities
203,639,796
       
40,075,120
         
11,003,457
         
13,247,974
         
64,326,551
         
Business-type activities:
 
 
Sewer
45,059,021
         
81,333,394
         
-
                          
8,179,541
           
89,512,935
         
Total business-type activities
45,059,021
         
81,333,394
         
-
                          
8,179,541
           
89,512,935
         
Total primary government 
248,698,817
$     
121,408,514
$     
11,003,457
$       
21,427,515
$       
153,839,486
$     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
City of San Mateo
Statement of Activities 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Program Revenues
See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.
32
141 of 356

--- page 142 ---
Governmental
Business-Type
Functions/Programs
Activities
Activities
Total
Primary government:
Governmental activities:
General government
(19,117,436)
$      
-
$                        
(19,117,436)
$      
Community development
(444,031)
             
-
                          
(444,031)
             
Public safety
(86,807,400)
        
-
                          
(86,807,400)
        
Public works
(11,547,525)
        
-
                          
(11,547,525)
        
Parks and recreation
(9,102,708)
          
-
                          
(9,102,708)
          
Library
(9,886,738)
          
-
                          
(9,886,738)
          
Interest on long-term debt
(2,407,407)
          
-
                          
(2,407,407)
          
Total governmental activities
(139,313,245)
      
-
                          
(139,313,245)
      
Business-type activities:
 
Sewer
-
                          
44,453,914
         
44,453,914
         
Total business-type activities
-
                          
44,453,914
         
44,453,914
         
Total primary government 
(139,313,245)
      
44,453,914
         
(94,859,331)
        
General Revenues and Transfers:
General revenues:
Taxes:
Property taxes
81,331,244
         
-
                          
81,331,244
         
Sales taxes
32,380,449
         
-
                          
32,380,449
         
Property transfer taxes
8,634,762
           
-
                          
8,634,762
           
Transient occupancy taxes
6,213,752
           
-
                          
6,213,752
           
Business license taxes
8,531,756
           
-
                          
8,531,756
           
Franchise taxes
3,403,374
           
-
                          
3,403,374
           
Other taxes
230,617
              
-
                          
230,617
              
Total taxes
140,725,954
       
-
                          
140,725,954
       
Investment income
15,375,641
         
9,342,754
           
24,718,395
         
Miscellaneous revenue
2,010,153
           
848,548
              
2,858,701
           
Total general revenues and transfers 
158,111,748
       
10,191,302
         
168,303,050
       
Change in net position
18,798,503
         
54,645,216
         
73,443,719
         
Net Position:
Beginning of year
451,406,721
       
335,912,139
       
787,318,860
       
End of year
470,205,224
$     
390,557,355
$     
860,762,579
$     
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Statement of Activities (Continued)
City of San Mateo
Net (Expense) Revenue
and Changes in Net Position
See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.
33
142 of 356

--- page 143 ---
This page intentionally left blank.
34
143 of 356

--- page 144 ---
FUND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
35
144 of 356

--- page 145 ---
This page intentionally left blank.
36
145 of 356

--- page 146 ---
Governmental Funds Financial Statements
General Fund - This fund accounts for all revenues and expenditures used to finance the traditional services associated
with a municipal government which are not accounted for in the other funds. In San Mateo, these services include
general government, community development, public safety, public works, parks and recreation, and library services.
General Capital Projects Fund - This fund accounts for the expenditures for capital improvements for the City,
including equipment, acquisition and construction of parks, recreation areas, public safety facilities or other public
works. The primary sources of funding are intergovernmental revenues, Measure A (half cent sales tax), developer
impact fees and transfers from other governmental funds.
37
146 of 356

--- page 147 ---
This page intentionally left blank.
38
147 of 356

--- page 148 ---
General
Non-major
Total 
General
Capital Projects
Governmental
Governmental
Fund
Fund
Funds
Funds
ASSETS
Cash and investments
127,335,266
$     
64,624,532
$       
98,325,201
$       
290,284,999
$     
Restricted cash and investments held by fiscal agents
-
                          
21,180,475
         
35,883
                
21,216,358
         
Accounts receivable, net
1,693,036
           
221,822
              
854,909
              
2,769,767
           
Interest receivable
2,210,243
           
-
                          
-
                          
2,210,243
           
Taxes receivable
6,878,649
           
241,779
              
804,708
              
7,925,136
           
Grants receivable
234,372
              
2,503,716
           
549,528
              
3,287,616
           
Leases receivable
10,032,574
         
-
                          
-
                          
10,032,574
         
Prepaid items, inventory, and deposits
304,759
              
-
                          
-
                          
304,759
              
Loans and notes receivable, net
-
                          
373,357
              
3,520,127
           
3,893,484
           
Total assets
148,688,899
$     
89,145,681
$       
104,090,356
$     
341,924,936
$     
 
 
 
LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS OF 
 
 
RESOURCES, AND FUND BALANCES
 
 
Liabilities:
Accounts payable
4,431,109
$         
23,918,294
$       
1,531,845
$         
29,881,248
$       
Retention payable
-
                          
5,029,210
           
-
                          
5,029,210
           
Accrued payroll
2,495,736
           
-
                          
-
                          
2,495,736
           
Deposits payable
12,892,520
         
-
                          
260,875
              
13,153,395
         
Unearned revenues
1,689,899
           
1,335,343
           
2,627,574
           
5,652,816
           
Total liabilities
21,509,264
         
30,282,847
         
4,420,294
           
56,212,405
         
 
 
DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Unavailable revenue
-
                          
55,757
                
297,868
              
353,625
              
Related to leases
9,222,294
           
-
                          
-
                          
9,222,294
           
Total deferred inflows of resources
9,222,294
           
55,757
                
297,868
              
9,575,919
           
 
 
 
Fund Balances:
 
 
 
Nonspendable
304,759
              
-
                          
-
                          
304,759
              
Restricted
550,000
              
32,211,408
         
99,372,194
         
132,133,602
       
Assigned
11,443,226
         
26,595,669
         
-
                          
38,038,895
         
Unassigned 
105,659,356
       
-
                          
-
                          
105,659,356
       
Total fund balances
117,957,341
       
58,807,077
         
99,372,194
         
276,136,612
       
Total liabilities, deferred inflows of
resources, and fund balances
148,688,899
$     
89,145,681
$       
104,090,356
$     
341,924,936
$     
Major Funds
June 30, 2024
Governmental Funds
Balance Sheet
City of San Mateo
See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.
39
148 of 356

--- page 149 ---
Total Fund Balances - Total Governmental Funds 
276,136,612
$     
Unavailable revenue recorded in the fund financial statements resulting from activities in which revenues were
earned but funds were not available are reclassified as revenues in the Government-Wide Financial Statements.
353,625
              
Capital Assets used in the governmental activities were not financial resources and therefore were not reported in
the Governmental Funds Balance Sheet.
Government-Wide Statement of Net Position
482,534,269
       
Less: capital assets reported in Internal Service Funds
(7,117,646)
          
Total capital assets
475,416,623
       
Long-term liabilities are not due and payable in the current period and therefore were not reported in the
Governmental Funds Balance Sheet.
Amount reported in Government-Wide Statement of Net Position
Compensated absences - due within one year
(910,640)
             
Compensated absences - due in more than one year
(7,367,905)
          
Long-term debt - due within one year
(5,873,007)
          
Long-term debt - due in more than one year
(80,695,504)
        
Landfill postclosure cost payable - due within one year
(115,264)
             
Landfill postclosure cost payable - due in more than one year
(1,613,688)
          
Total long-term liabilities
(96,576,008)
        
Deferred amounts related to the refunding of long-term debt were not current financial resources. Therefore, they
were not reported in the Governmental Funds Balance Sheet. This amount is to be amortized over the life of the
long-term debt.
699,287
              
Investment in joint ventures are not current financial resources. Therefore, they were not reported in the
Governmental Funds Balance Sheet.
12,740,381
         
Interest payable on long-term debt did not require current financial resources. Therefore, interest payable was not
reported as a liability in the governmental funds.
(573,808)
             
Aggregate net pension liability and total OPEB liability used in the governmental activities were not financial
resources and therefore were not reported in the Governmental Funds Balance Sheet.
Net pension liability
(269,036,271)
      
Net OPEB liability
(9,481,590)
          
(278,517,861)
      
Deferred outflows of resources related to OPEB and pensions are not available for current period and, therefore,
are deferred in the governmental funds or not recorded in the governmental funds.
Amount reported in Government-Wide Statement of Net Position
Deferred outflows of resources related to OPEB
4,543,847
           
Deferred outflows of resources related to pensions
52,666,966
         
Total deferred outflows of resources
57,210,813
         
Deferred inflows of resources related to OPEB and pensions are not available for current period and, therefore, are
deferred in the governmental funds or not recorded in the governmental funds.
Amount reported in Government-Wide Statement of Net Position
Deferred inflows of resources related to OPEB
(1,783,054)
          
Deferred inflows of resources related to pensions
(414,055)
             
Total deferred inflows of resources
(2,197,109)
          
Internal service funds are used by management to charge the cost of fleet management, risk management,
information technology, and building maintenance to individual funds. The assets and liabilities of the internal
service funds are included in the governmental activities in the statement of net position.
25,512,669
         
Net Position of Governmental Activities 
470,205,224
$     
Amounts reported for Governmental Activities in the Statement of Net Position were different because:
City of San Mateo
Reconciliation of the Governmental Funds Balance Sheet
to the Government-Wide Statement of Net Position
June 30, 2024
See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.
40
149 of 356

--- page 150 ---
Formerly
Major Fund
Construction 
General
Services
Non-major
Total 
General
Capital Projects
Special Revenue
Governmental
Governmental
 
Fund
Fund
Fund
Funds
Funds
REVENUES:
 
Property taxes
78,606,527
$    
-
$                     
2,724,717
$      
81,331,244
$    
Sales taxes
27,772,986
      
4,607,463
        
-
                       
32,380,449
      
Other taxes
25,883,776
      
-
                       
887,679
           
26,771,455
      
Licenses, building and other permits
97,101
             
40
                    
7,248,749
        
7,345,890
        
Fines, forfeitures and penalties
3,024,160
        
-
                       
218,732
           
3,242,892
        
Intergovernmental
3,066,664
        
2,875,692
        
7,580,131
        
13,522,487
      
Charges for services
15,607,445
      
-
                       
5,571,332
        
21,178,777
      
Investment income
8,470,713
        
755,722
           
4,518,460
        
13,744,895
      
Assessments and garbage collection
-
                       
537,912
           
2,359,848
        
2,897,760
        
Parking meter and lease revenue
3,199,677
        
-
                       
-
                       
3,199,677
        
Capital contributions
-
                       
1,074,216
        
8,690,739
        
9,764,955
        
Other revenues
4,284,746
        
368,360
           
687,539
           
5,340,645
        
Total revenues
170,013,795
    
10,219,405
      
40,487,926
      
220,721,126
    
 
 
 
EXPENDITURES:
 
 
Current:
 
 
General government:
City Council
319,813
           
-
                       
-
                       
319,813
           
City Manager
2,305,807
        
-
                       
125,014
           
2,430,821
        
City Clerk
785,263
           
-
                       
-
                       
785,263
           
City Attorney
1,265,970
        
-
                       
229,587
           
1,495,557
        
Finance
4,220,237
        
-
                       
-
                       
4,220,237
        
Information technology
3,979,491
        
-
                       
123,895
           
4,103,386
        
Human resources
2,169,288
        
-
                       
-
                       
2,169,288
        
Community development
1,729,511
        
-
                       
12,132,829
      
13,862,340
      
Public safety:
Police
59,056,241
      
-
                       
960,900
           
60,017,141
      
Fire
27,509,727
      
-
                       
-
                       
27,509,727
      
Public works
10,831,430
      
-
                       
4,775,586
        
15,607,016
      
Parks and recreation
21,136,909
      
-
                       
-
                       
21,136,909
      
Library
8,619,895
        
-
                       
-
                       
8,619,895
        
Non-departmental
9,678,356
        
-
                       
289,750
           
9,968,106
        
Capital outlay
1,386,609
        
26,110,259
      
118,568
           
27,615,436
      
Debt service:
Principal
2,353,226
        
607,946
           
2,995,000
        
5,956,172
        
Interest and fiscal charges
249,630
           
37,694
             
2,519,507
        
2,806,831
        
Total expenditures
157,597,403
    
26,755,899
      
24,270,636
      
208,623,938
    
 
 
 
 
 
REVENUES OVER (UNDER) EXPENDITURES
12,416,392
      
(16,536,494)
     
16,217,290
      
12,097,188
      
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):
 
 
Proceeds from sale of property
21,354
             
-
                       
-
                       
21,354
             
Inception of subscription liability
1,076,231
        
-
                       
-
                       
1,076,231
        
Transfers in
7,247,433
        
21,157,125
      
2,691,887
        
31,096,445
      
Transfers out
(20,683,288)
     
-
                       
(10,909,609)
     
(31,592,897)
     
Total other financing sources (uses)
(12,338,270)
     
21,157,125
      
(8,217,722)
       
601,133
           
NET CHANGE IN FUND BALANCES
78,122
             
4,620,631
        
7,999,568
        
12,698,321
      
FUND BALANCES:
Beginning of year, as previously reported
117,879,219
    
54,186,446
      
32,627,760
      
58,744,866
      
263,438,291
    
Change with financial reporting entity 
(major to non major fund)
-
                       
-
                       
(32,627,760)
     
32,627,760
      
-
                       
Beginning of year, as restated (Note 19)
117,879,219
    
54,186,446
      
-
                       
91,372,626
      
263,438,291
    
End of year
117,957,341
$  
58,807,077
$    
-
$                     
99,372,194
$    
276,136,612
$  
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Governmental Funds
Statement of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes in Fund Balances
City of San Mateo
Major Funds
See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.
41
150 of 356

--- page 151 ---
Net Change in Fund Balances - Total Governmental Funds 
12,698,321
$          
Governmental funds reported capital outlay as expenditures. However, in the Government-Wide Statement of Activities
and Changes in Net Position the cost of those assets was allocated over their estimated useful lives as depreciation
expenses. This is the amount of capital assets recorded in the current period (net of $1,788,474 added in internal
service funds) ($1,159,807 of the governmental fund capital outlay balance were for repairs and maintenance
expenditures).
28,070,051
            
Depreciation and amortization expense on capital assets was reported in the Government-Wide Statement of Activities
and Changes in Net Position, but they did not require the use of current financial resources. Therefore, depreciation
and amortization expense, net of internal service funds of $1,135,439, was not reported as expenditures in the
Governmental Funds.
(21,642,987)
          
The net effect of various miscellaneous transactions involving capital assets (i.e. sales, trade-ins, and donations)
decreased net position (net of $74,946 reported in the internal services fund).
(589,635)
               
Repayment of long-term liabilities was an expenditures in governmental funds, but the repayment reduced long-term
liabilities in the Government-Wide Statement of Net Position.
Principal payment of long-term debt
5,956,172
          
Amortization of bond premium
490,640
             
Deferred amounts related to the refunding of long-term debt were not current financial resources. Therefore, they were
not reported in the Governmental Funds Balance Sheet. This amount is to be amortized over the life of the long-term
debt.
(122,345)
               
Interest expense on long-term debt was reported in the Government-Wide Statement of Activities, but it did not require
the use of current financial resources.  This amount represented the changes in accrued interest from prior year.
31,129
                   
Payment of landfill closure and postclosure cost payable was an expenditure in governmental funds, but the payment
reduced landfill closure and postclosure cost liabilities in the Government-Wide Statement of Net Position. Increases in
the liability were reflected as expenses in the Government-Wide Statement of Activities, however, no expenditures are
reported in the governmental funds.
(60,079)
                 
Compensated absences expenses reported in the Government-Wide Statement of Activities do not require the use of
current financial resources and, therefore, are not reported as expenditures in the governmental funds.
(284,711)
               
Revenues that are not considered to be available are reported as unavailable revenues in the governmental funds,
however, these amounts are recognized in the Government-Wide Statement of Activities. This amount represents the
change in unavailable revenues.
68,591
                   
Investment in joint ventures are not current financial resources. Therefore, they were not reported in the Governmental
Funds Balance Sheet. This amount represents the change in joint ventures.
255,799
                 
Certain pension expenses reported in the Government-Wide Statement of Activities do not require the use of current
financial resources and therefore, are not reported as expenditures in governmental funds.
Changes in pension related deferred outflows of resources
(8,322,107)
            
Changes in net pension liabilities
(7,902,472)
            
Changes in pension related deferred inflows of resources
761,612
                 
Certain OPEB expenses reported in the Government-Wide Statement of Activities do not require the use of current
financial resources and therefore, are not reported as expenditures in governmental funds.
Changes in OPEB related deferred outflows of resources
2,913,166
              
Changes in total OPEB liabilities
(2,143,918)
            
Changes in OPEB related deferred inflows of resources
(321,635)
               
The internal service funds are used by management to charge the costs of fleet maintenance, facilities maintenance, and
technology to individual funds. The net revenue of certain activities of internal service funds is reported with
governmental activities.
10,019,142
            
Change in Net Position of Governmental Activities  
18,798,503
$          
Amounts reported for Governmental Activities in the Statement of Net Position were different because:
City of San Mateo
Reconciliation of the Governmental Funds Statement of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes 
in Fund Balances to the Government-Wide Statement of Activities and Changes in Net Position
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.
42
151 of 356

--- page 152 ---
Proprietary Funds Financial Statements
Sewer Fund  - This fund is used to account for the activities of the City's wastewater collection and treatment operations.
Internal Service Funds - These funds are used to provide goods and services by one department or agency to other
departments or agencies of the City on a cost reimbursement basis.
43
152 of 356

--- page 153 ---
This page intentionally left blank.
44
153 of 356

--- page 154 ---
Major Fund
Governmental
Activities
Sewer
Internal
Fund
Service Funds
ASSETS
Current assets:
Cash and investments
133,397,595
$     
35,942,150
$       
Accounts receivable, net
36,099,027
         
723,787
              
Interest receivable
643,703
              
-
                          
Prepaid items, inventory, and deposits
-
                          
604,174
              
Total current assets
170,140,325
       
37,270,111
         
Noncurrent assets:
Restricted cash and investments
51,978,422
         
-
                          
Loans and notes receivable, net
38,999,057
         
-
                          
Capital assets:
Non-depreciable
613,717,839
       
-
                          
Depreciable, net
170,526,248
       
7,117,646
           
Total capital assets
784,244,087
       
7,117,646
           
Total noncurrent assets
875,221,566
       
7,117,646
           
Total assets 
1,045,361,891
    
44,387,757
         
DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Related to OPEB
674,767
              
-
                          
Related to pensions
4,950,503
           
-
                          
Total deferred outflow of resources 
5,625,270
           
-
                          
 
LIABILITIES
 
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable
1,085,688
           
864,074
              
Deposits payable
1,057,256
           
113,014
              
Interest payable
6,722,343
           
-
                          
Compensated absences - due within one year
121,123
              
-
                          
Claims payable - due within one year
-
                          
4,044,000
           
Long-term debt - due within one year
1,997,968
           
-
                          
Total current liabilities
10,984,378
         
5,021,088
           
Noncurrent liabilities:
Net OPEB liability
1,408,025
           
-
                          
Net pension liability
18,451,401
         
-
                          
Compensated absences - due in more than one year
979,997
              
-
                          
Claims payable - due in more than one year
-
                          
13,854,000
         
Long term debt - due in more than one year
612,085,555
       
-
                          
Total noncurrent liabilities
632,924,978
       
13,854,000
         
Total liabilities 
643,909,356
       
18,875,088
         
DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Deferred gain on refunding
16,156,892
         
-
                          
Related to OPEB
264,788
              
-
                          
Related to pensions
98,770
                
-
                          
Total deferred inflows of resources 
16,520,450
         
-
                          
NET POSITION
Net investment in capital assets
205,982,094
       
7,117,646
           
Unrestricted
184,575,261
       
18,395,023
         
Total net position 
390,557,355
$     
25,512,669
$       
June 30, 2024
Proprietary Funds
Statement of Net Position
City of San Mateo
See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.
45
154 of 356

--- page 155 ---
This page intentionally left blank.
46
155 of 356

--- page 156 ---
Major Fund
Governmental
Activities
Sewer
Internal
Fund
Service Funds
OPERATING REVENUES:
 
Charges for services
80,502,873
$          
59,753,522
$          
Connection fees
830,521
                 
-
                            
Other
848,548
                 
10,579,772
            
Total operating revenues
82,181,942
            
70,333,294
            
OPERATING EXPENSES:
Personnel services
12,850,005
            
46,124,609
            
Materials and supplies
14,555,427
            
15,138,472
            
Depreciation and amortization
5,635,414
              
1,271,051
              
Total operating expenses
33,040,846
            
62,534,132
            
 
OPERATING INCOME
49,141,096
            
7,799,162
              
NONOPERATING REVENUES (EXPENSES):
Investment income
9,342,754
              
1,648,582
              
Gain (loss) on sale of capital assets
-
                            
74,946
                   
Interest expense
(12,018,175)
          
-
                            
Total nonoperating revenues (expenses)
(2,675,421)
            
1,723,528
              
INCOME BEFORE CAPITAL 
CONTRIBUTIONS AND TRANSFERS
46,465,675
            
9,522,690
              
CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS AND TRANSFERS
Capital contributions
7,860,150
              
-
                            
Impact fees
319,391
                 
-
                            
Transfers in
-
                            
1,410,000
              
Transfers out
-
                            
(913,548)
               
Total capital contributions and transfers
8,179,541
              
496,452
                 
Changes in net position
54,645,216
            
10,019,142
            
NET POSITION:
Beginning of year
335,912,139
          
15,493,527
            
End of year
390,557,355
$        
25,512,669
$          
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Proprietary Funds
Statement of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position
City of San Mateo
See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.
47
156 of 356

--- page 157 ---
Major Fund
Governmental
Activities
Sewer
Internal
Fund
Service Funds
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Cash received from customers
64,454,315
$       
59,759,772
$       
Cash payments to suppliers for goods and services
(14,569,131)
        
(23,755,401)
        
Cash payments to employees for services
(11,962,401)
        
(46,236,108)
        
Cash received from others
848,548
              
10,579,772
         
Net cash provided by operating activities
38,771,331
         
348,035
              
 
CASH FLOWS FROM NONCAPITAL FINANCING ACTIVITIES:  
 
Interfund borrowing (lending)
-
                          
87,868
                
Repayment of interfund borrowing (lending)
-
                          
(87,868)
               
Transfers in
-
                          
1,410,000
           
Transfers out
-
                          
(913,548)
             
Net cash provided by noncapital financing activities
-
                          
496,452
              
CASH FLOWS FROM CAPITAL AND 
RELATED FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
 
Impact fees
319,391
              
-
                          
Proceeds from sale of capital assets
-
                          
95,291
                
Acquisition of capital assets, net
(82,613,901)
        
(2,247,489)
          
Proceeds from issuance of debt
295,479,360
       
-
                          
Principal payment of long-term debt
(273,467,796)
      
-
                          
Interest paid on debt and fiscal charges
(33,213,724)
        
-
                          
Net cash (used in) capital and related financing activities
(93,496,670)
        
(2,152,198)
          
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Interest from investments
9,473,027
           
1,648,582
           
Net cash provided by investing activities
9,473,027
           
1,648,582
           
Net change in cash and cash equivalents
(45,252,312)
        
340,871
              
CASH AND CASH  EQUIVALENTS:
 
Beginning of year
230,628,329
       
35,601,279
         
End of year
185,376,017
$     
35,942,150
$       
RECONCILIATION OF CASH AND CASH 
 EQUIVALENTS TO STATEMENT OF NET POSITION:
Cash and cash investments
133,397,595
$     
35,942,150
$       
Restricted cash and investments
51,978,422
         
-
                          
Total cash and cash equivalents
185,376,017
$     
35,942,150
$       
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Proprietary Funds
Statement of Cash Flows
City of San Mateo
See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.
48
157 of 356

--- page 158 ---
Major Fund
Governmental
Activities
Sewer
Internal
Fund
Service Funds
RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING INCOME TO NET
CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Operating income 
49,141,096
$       
7,799,162
$         
Adjustments to reconcile operating income to net
cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization
5,635,414
           
1,271,051
           
Changes in operating assets and liabilities, and
deferred outflows and inflows of resources:
Accounts receivable, net
(16,868,848)
        
6,250
                  
Deferred outflows - OPEB related
(432,609)
             
-
                          
Deferred outflows - pension related
314,507
              
-
                          
Accounts payable
(13,704)
               
35,672
                
Deposits payable
(10,231)
               
47,900
                
Compensated absences
(7,205)
                 
-
                          
Claims payable
-
                          
(8,812,000)
          
Net OPEB liability
318,374
              
-
                          
Net pension liability
828,452
              
-
                          
Deferred inflows - OPEB related
47,763
                
-
                          
Deferred inflows - pension related
(181,678)
             
-
                          
Total adjustments
(10,369,765)
        
(7,451,127)
          
Net cash provided by operating activities
38,771,331
$       
348,035
$            
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
City of San Mateo
Statement of Cash Flows (Continued)
Proprietary Funds
See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.
49
158 of 356

--- page 159 ---
This page intentionally left blank.
50
159 of 356

--- page 160 ---
Fiduciary Funds Financial Statements
Custodial funds - These funds are used to report fiduciary activities that are not required to be reported in pension (and
other employee benefit) trust funds, investment trust funds, or private purpose trust funds. This includes the San Mateo
Consolidated Fire Department Custodial Fund, CFD 2008-1 Custodial Fund, and Other Custodial Fund.
Private Purpose Funds - These funds account for resources of all other trust arrangements in which principal and
income benefit individuals, private organizations, or other governments (i.e. unclaimed property/escheat property). This
includes the RDA Obligation Retirement Fund (RORF), Successor Agency to RDA Merged Area Fund, and the
Successor Agency to RDA Housing Fund.
51
160 of 356

--- page 161 ---
This page intentionally left blank.
52
161 of 356

--- page 162 ---
Custodial
Private Purpose
Funds
Trust Funds
ASSETS
Cash and investments
3,538,712
$         
5,175,557
$         
Restricted cash and investments with fiscal agent
3,579,205
           
1
                         
   Total assets
7,117,917
           
5,175,558
           
DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Deferred loss on refunding
-
                          
113,013
              
Total deferred outflows of resources
-
                          
113,013
              
LIABILITIES
Accounts payable
147,115
              
3,188
                  
Interest payable
-
                          
710,209
              
Long-term debt - due within one year
-
                          
4,270,000
           
Long-term debt - due in more than one year
-
                          
33,100,992
         
   Total liabilities
147,115
              
38,084,389
         
NET POSITION (DEFICIT)
Restricted for: 
Individuals, organizations, and other governments
6,970,802
           
-
                          
Held in trust for dissolution of RDA
-
                          
(32,795,818)
        
   Total net position (deficit)
6,970,802
$         
(32,795,818)
$      
City of San Mateo
Statement of Fiduciary Net Position
Fiduciary Funds
June 30, 2024
See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.
53
162 of 356

--- page 163 ---
Custodial
Private Purpose
Funds
Trust Funds
ADDITIONS:
Fee collections for other governments
420,134
$            
-
$                        
Special assessments for other governments
4,940,334
           
-
                          
Investment income
181,313
              
1,084
                  
RDA property tax trust fund distribution
-
                          
5,994,500
           
Total additions
5,541,781
           
5,995,584
           
DEDUCTIONS:
Administration
74,357
                
23,188
                
Payments on conduit bonds - interest
3,724,713
           
-
                          
Payments on conduit bonds - principal
1,357,527
           
-
                          
Interest expense
-
                          
1,252,679
           
Total deductions
5,156,597
           
1,275,867
           
Change in net position
385,184
              
4,719,717
           
NET POSITION (DEFICIT):
Beginning of year
6,585,618
           
(37,515,535)
        
End of period
6,970,802
$         
(32,795,818)
$      
City of San Mateo
Statement of Changes in Fiduciary Net Position
Fiduciary Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
See accompanying Notes to the Basic Financial Statements.
54
163 of 356

--- page 164 ---
55 
NOTES TO THE BASIC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
164 of 356

--- page 165 ---
56 
This page intentionally left blank.
165 of 356

--- page 166 ---
City of San Mateo 
Index of Notes to the Basic Financial Statements 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024 
 
 
57 
Page 
 
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies ............................................................................................. 61 
 
A. Financial Reporting Entity ......................................................................................................................... 61 
B. Basis of Presentation, Accounting and Measurement Focus ..................................................................... 62 
C. Deferred Outflows and Inflows of Resources ............................................................................................ 65 
D. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments ................................................................................................... 65 
E. Restricted Cash and Investments ............................................................................................................... 66 
F. Receivables ................................................................................................................................................ 67 
G. Interfund Transactions ............................................................................................................................... 67 
H. Inventories and Prepaid Items .................................................................................................................... 67 
I. Leases ......................................................................................................................................................... 67 
J. Subscription-Based Information Technology Arrangements (SBITAs) .................................................... 68 
K. Capital Assets ............................................................................................................................................. 69 
L. Long-Term Debt ........................................................................................................................................ 70 
M. Compensated Absences .............................................................................................................................. 71 
N. Claims and Judgements Payable ................................................................................................................ 71 
O. Pension Plans ............................................................................................................................................. 71 
P. Other Postemployment Benefits (OPEB) ................................................................................................... 72 
Q. Fund Balances ............................................................................................................................................ 72 
R. Net Position ................................................................................................................................................ 73 
S. Property Taxes ........................................................................................................................................... 73 
T. Use of Accounting Estimates ..................................................................................................................... 74 
U. Implementation of New GASB Pronouncements for the Year Ended June 30, 2024 ................................ 74 
V. Upcoming Government Accounting Standards Implementations .............................................................. 74 
 
Note 2 – Cash and Investments .................................................................................................................................. 75 
 
A. Demand Deposits ....................................................................................................................................... 76 
B. Investments Authorized by the California Government  
       Code and the City’s Investment Policy ............................................................................................... 76 
C. Fair Value Measurement ............................................................................................................................ 77 
D. Risk Disclosure .......................................................................................................................................... 79 
E. Investment in State Investment Pool .......................................................................................................... 82 
F. Investment in California Asset Management Program (CAMP) ............................................................... 82 
G. Investment in San Mateo County Investment Pool .................................................................................... 82 
 
Note 3 – Loans and Notes Receivable ........................................................................................................................ 83 
 
Note 4 – Lease Receivable ........................................................................................................................................... 88 
 
Note 5 – Interfund Transfers ...................................................................................................................................... 90 
 
Note 6 – Capital Assets ................................................................................................................................................ 90 
 
A. Governmental Activities ............................................................................................................................ 90 
B. Business-Type Activities ........................................................................................................................... 91 
166 of 356

--- page 167 ---
City of San Mateo 
Index of Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024 
 
 
58 
Page 
 
Note 7 – Long-Term Liabilities .................................................................................................................................. 92 
 
A. Summary .................................................................................................................................................... 92 
B. Governmental Activities ............................................................................................................................ 93 
C. Business-Type Activities ........................................................................................................................... 98 
D. Fiduciary Funds Private Purpose Trust Funds - Successor Agency to  
       the Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Mateo ...................................................................... 103 
 
Note 8 – Special Assessment Debt with No City Commitment .............................................................................. 104 
 
Note 9 – Compensated Absences .............................................................................................................................. 105 
 
A. Governmental Activities .......................................................................................................................... 105 
B. Business-Type Activities ......................................................................................................................... 105 
 
Note 10 – Landfill Closure ........................................................................................................................................ 105 
 
Note 11 – Pension Plans ............................................................................................................................................. 106 
 
A. Summary .................................................................................................................................................. 106 
B. General Information about Pension ......................................................................................................... 107 
C. Social Security ......................................................................................................................................... 112 
 
Note 12 – Other Postemployment Benefits .............................................................................................................. 113 
 
A. Summary .................................................................................................................................................. 113 
B. General Information about OPEB ............................................................................................................ 113 
C. Net OPEB Liability, OPEB Expense and Deferred Outflows/Inflows  
       of Resources Related to OPEB ......................................................................................................... 114 
 
Note 13 – Risk Management ..................................................................................................................................... 117 
 
A. Coverage .................................................................................................................................................. 117 
B. Claims Activity ........................................................................................................................................ 117 
 
Note 14 – Joint Ventures ........................................................................................................................................... 117 
 
Note 15 – Other Required Disclosures ..................................................................................................................... 119 
 
A. Deficit Fund Balances/Net Position ......................................................................................................... 119 
B. Expenditures Exceeding Appropriations .................................................................................................. 119 
 
Note 16 – Fund Balance Classification ..................................................................................................................... 120 
 
Note 17 – Net Investment in Capital Assets ............................................................................................................. 121 
 
Note 18 – Successor Agency Private Purpose Trust For Assets of Former Redevelopment ............................... 121 
167 of 356

--- page 168 ---
City of San Mateo 
Index of Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024 
 
 
59 
Page 
 
Note 19 – Changes to or within the Financial Reporting Entity ........................................................................... 122 
 
Note 20 – Commitments and Contingencies ............................................................................................................ 123 
 
A. Litigation .................................................................................................................................................. 123 
B. Contingent Liabilities ............................................................................................................................... 123 
C. Federal and State Grants .......................................................................................................................... 123 
D. Contractual Commitments ....................................................................................................................... 123 
 
 
 
 
 
 
168 of 356

--- page 169 ---
60 
This page intentionally left blank. 
169 of 356

--- page 170 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements  
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024 
 
 
61 
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
 
The basic financial statements of the City of San Mateo, California (the “City”) have been prepared in conformity with 
Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) as applied to governmental 
agencies. The Governmental Accounting Standards Board (“GASB”) is the accepted standard-setting body for 
establishing governmental accounting and financial reporting standards in the United States. The more significant of 
the City’s accounting policies are described below. 
 
A. Financial Reporting Entity 
 
The City was incorporated as a charter city on September 4, 1894; the current charter was adopted in 1971 and 
revised in 2002. The City operates under the Council-Manager form of government and provides the following 
services: police; building inspection; parks and streets; sanitation; leisure services; planning and zoning; general 
administration services; and redevelopment. 
 
Blended Component Units 
 
The financial reporting entity consists of the primary government, the City, and its component units. Component 
units are legally separate entities for which the elected officials of the primary government are financially 
accountable. In addition, component units can be other organizations for which the primary government is 
accountable and their exclusion would cause the reporting entity’s financial statements to be misleading or 
incomplete. 
 
Blended component units, although legally separate entities, are, in substance part of the government’s operation 
and so data from these units are combined with data of the primary government. Discretely presented component 
units, on the other hand, are reported in a separate column in the combined financial statements to emphasize that 
they are legally separate from the government. 
 
Although the following are legally separate from the City, they have been “blended” as though they are part of the 
City because the component unit’s governing body is substantially the same as the City’s and there is a financial 
benefit or burden relationship between the City and the component unit; management of the City has operational 
responsibilities for the component units; and/or the component units provide services entirely, or almost entirely, 
to the City or otherwise exclusively, or almost exclusively, benefits the City, even though it does not provide 
services directly to it. 
 
San Mateo Joint Powers Financing Authority (JPFA) 
 
The San Mateo Joint Powers Financing Authority (“JPFA”) was created in 1993. The Financing Authority is a joint 
exercise of joint powers. The City Council serves as directors of the JPFA. The purpose of the JPFA is to act as a 
financing/lending type of entity only. No separate annual financial statements are prepared for the JPFA. Since the 
City Council previously served as the government board for this component unit, the City’s component unit was 
considered to be a blended component unit. Blended component units, although legally separate entities, are in 
substance, part of the City’s operations and financial information was reported with the primary government. The 
activities of the JPFA are accounted in the various governmental funds of the City.
170 of 356

--- page 171 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
62 
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
 
B. Basis of Presentation, Accounting and Measurement Focus 
 
The accounts of the City are organized on the basis of funds, each of which is considered a separate accounting 
entity. The operations of each fund are accounted for by providing a separate set of self-balancing accounts that 
comprise its assets, deferred outflows of resources, liabilities, deferred inflows of resources, fund equity, revenues 
and expenditures or expenses, as appropriate. Fund accounting segregates funds according to their intended purpose 
and is used to aid management in demonstrating compliance with finance-related legal and contractual provisions. 
The minimum number of funds is maintained in accordance with legal and managerial requirements. 
 
Government-Wide Financial Statements 
 
The City’s Government-Wide Financial Statements include a Statement of Net Position and a Statement of 
Activities and Changes in Net Position. These statements present summaries of governmental and business-type 
activities for the City accompanied by a total column. Fiduciary activities of the City are not included in these 
statements. 
 
These financial statements are presented on an “economic resources” measurement focus and the accrual basis of 
accounting. Accordingly, all of the City’s assets and liabilities, including capital assets, as well as infrastructure 
assets, and long-term liabilities, are included in the accompanying Statement of Net Position. The Statement of 
Activities presents changes in Net Position. Under the accrual basis of accounting, revenues are recognized in the 
period in which they are earned while expenses are recognized in the period in which the liability is incurred. Under 
the accrual basis of accounting, revenues, expenses, gains, losses, assets, deferred outflows of resources, liabilities, 
and deferred inflows of resources resulting from exchange and exchange-like transactions are recognized when the 
exchange takes place. Revenues, expenses, gains, losses, assets, deferred outflows of resources, liabilities and 
deferred inflows of resources resulting from non-exchange transactions are recognized in accordance with the 
requirements of U.S. GAAP. 
 
Program revenues include charges for services, special assessments, and payments made by parties outside of the 
reporting government's citizenry if that money is restricted to a particular program. Program revenues are netted 
with program expenses in the statement of activities to present the net cost of each program. Program revenues for 
the City are classified in three categories: 
 
 Charges for services 
 Operating grants and contributions 
 Capital grants and contributions 
 
Certain eliminations have been made in regards to interfund activities, payables and receivables. All internal 
balances in the Statement of Net Position have been eliminated except those representing balances between the 
governmental activities and the business-type activities, which are presented as internal balances and eliminated in 
the total primary government column. In the Statement of Activities and Changes in Net Position, internal service 
fund transactions have been eliminated; however, those transactions between governmental and business-type 
activities have not been eliminated. The following interfund activities have been eliminated: 
 
 Transfers in/out 
 
Governmental Fund Financial Statements include a Balance Sheet and a Statement of Revenues, Expenditures and 
Changes in Fund Balances. An accompanying schedule is presented to reconcile and explain the differences in Net 
Position as presented in these statements to the Net Position presented in the Government-Wide Financial 
Statements. The City has presented all major funds that met the applicable criteria. 
171 of 356

--- page 172 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
63 
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
 
B. Basis of Presentation, Accounting and Measurement Focus (Continued) 
 
Governmental Fund Financial Statements 
 
All governmental funds are accounted for on a spending or "current financial resources" measurement focus and 
the modified accrual basis of accounting. Accordingly, only current assets and current liabilities are included on the 
Balance Sheet. The Statement of Revenues, Expenditures and Changes in Fund Balances presents increases 
(revenues and other financing sources) and decreases (expenditures and other financing uses) in net current assets. 
Under the modified accrual basis of accounting, revenues are recognized in the accounting period in which they 
become both measurable and available to finance expenditures of the current period. Measurable means that the 
amounts can be estimated, or otherwise determined. Available means that the amounts were collected during the 
reporting period or soon enough thereafter to be available to finance the expenditures accrued for the reporting 
period. The City uses an availability period of 60 days for all revenues except grants, which use a six-month 
availability period. 
 
Sales taxes, property taxes, franchise taxes, gas taxes, motor vehicle in-lieu, transient occupancy taxes, grants and 
interest associated with the current fiscal period are all considered to be susceptible to accrual and so have been 
recognized as revenues of the current fiscal period to the extent normally collected within the availability period. 
Other revenue items are considered to be measurable and available when cash is received by the government. 
 
Revenue recognition is subject to the measurable and available criteria for the governmental funds in the fund 
financial statements. Exchange transactions are recognized as revenues in the period in which they are earned 
(i.e., the related goods or services are provided). Locally imposed derived tax revenues are recognized as 
revenues in the period in which the underlying exchange transaction upon which they are based takes place. 
Imposed non-exchange transactions are recognized as revenues in the period for which they were imposed. If the 
period of use is not specified, they are recognized as revenues when an enforceable legal claim to the revenues 
arises or when they are received, whichever occurs first. Government-mandated and voluntary non-exchange 
transactions have been recognized as revenues when all applicable eligibility requirements have been met. 
 
The Reconciliation of the Fund Financial Statements to the Government-Wide Financial Statements is provided to 
explain the differences created by the integrated approach of GASB Statement No. 34. 
 
The City reports the following major governmental funds: 
 
General Fund accounts for resources traditionally associated with governmental activities that are not required 
legally or by sound financial management to be accounted for in another fund. 
 
General Capital Projects Fund accounts for the expenditures for capital improvements for the City, including 
equipment, acquisition, and construction of parks, recreation areas, public safety facilities or other public 
works. The primary sources of funding are intergovernmental revenues, Measure A (half cent sales tax), 
developer impact fees, and transfers from other governmental funds. 
 
Proprietary Fund Financial Statements 
 
Proprietary Fund Financial Statements include a Statement of Net Position, a Statement of Revenues, Expenses and 
Changes in Fund Net Position, and a Statement of Cash Flows for each major Proprietary Fund.  
172 of 356

--- page 173 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
64 
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
 
B. Basis of Presentation, Accounting and Measurement Focus (Continued) 
 
Proprietary Fund Financial Statements (Continued) 
 
A separate column representing internal service funds is also presented in these statements. However, internal 
service balances and activities have been combined with the governmental activities in the Government-Wide 
Financial Statements. The City’s internal service funds include funds which provide services directly to other City 
funds. These areas of service include fleet maintenance, facilities maintenance, and comprehensive liability.  
 
Proprietary funds are accounted for using the "economic resources" measurement focus and the accrual basis of 
accounting. Accordingly, all assets and liabilities (whether current or noncurrent) are included on the Statement of 
Net Position. The Statement of Revenues, Expenses and Changes in Fund Net Position presents increases (revenues) 
and decreases (expenses) in total Net Position. Under the accrual basis of accounting, revenues are recognized in 
the period in which they are earned while expenses are recognized in the period in which the liability is incurred. 
In these funds, receivables have been recorded as revenue and provisions have been made for uncollectible amounts.  
 
Operating revenues in the proprietary funds are those revenues that are generated from the primary operations of 
the fund. All other revenues are reported as non-operating revenues. Operating expenses are those expenses that are 
essential to the primary operations of the fund. All other expenses are reported as non-operating expenses. 
 
The City reports the following major proprietary fund: 
 
Sewer Fund accounts for the activities of the wastewater collection and treatment system, which provides 
service to residents and the businesses of the City and some neighboring cities. 
 
Internal service fund balances and activities have been combined with governmental activities in the Government-
Wide Financial Statements, and are comprised of the following funds: 
 
Workers’ Compensation Insurance Fund accounts for all workers’ compensation self-insurance activities. 
 
Dental Self-Insurance Fund accounts for the City’s self-insurance activities related to the dental plan it provides 
to its employees. 
 
Benefits Fund accounts for charges for other funds and expenditures relating to employee benefits other than 
those accounted for in the Workers’ Compensation and Dental Self-Insurance Funds. 
 
Comprehensive Liability Insurance Fund accounts for general liability self-insurance transactions. 
 
Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund accounts for charges to the City departments for funding and 
acquisition of replacement vehicles and equipment. 
 
Fleet and Building Maintenance Fund accounts for the charges to user departments and the expenses related to 
the maintenance of City vehicles and buildings. 
 
Fiduciary Fund Financial Statements 
 
Fiduciary fund financial statements include a Statement of Net Position and a Statement of Changes in Fiduciary 
Net Position. The City’s fiduciary funds represent custodial funds and private purpose trust funds. Both custodial 
funds and the private purpose trust funds are accounted for on the full accrual basis of accounting.  
173 of 356

--- page 174 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
65 
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
 
B. Basis of Presentation, Accounting and Measurement Focus (Continued) 
 
Fiduciary Fund Financial Statements (Continued) 
 
Fiduciary fund types are accounted for according to the nature of the fund. Custodial funds are used to report 
fiduciary activities that are not required to be reported in pension (and other employee benefit) trust funds, 
investment trust funds, or private-purpose trust funds. Private-purpose trust funds account for resources of all other 
trust arrangements in which principal and income benefit individuals, private organizations, or other governments 
(i.e. unclaimed property/escheat property). They are also used to account for various assessment districts for which 
the City acts as an agent for debt service activity, as the City is prohibited from levying additional taxes for these 
districts. Such funds include Community Facilities Districts. 
 
The City’s private purpose trust fund is a fiduciary fund type used by the City to report assets, liabilities and 
activities of the Successor Agency to the Redevelopment Agency (Successor Agency) for the City of San Mateo. 
Its results of operations are presented on the Statement of Changes of Fiduciary Net Position.  
 
Successor Agency of the Redevelopment Agency for the City of San Mateo 
 
The Redevelopment Obligation Retirement Fund was created to serve as a custodian for the assets and to wind 
down the affairs of the RDA on February 1, 2012, pursuant to Assembly Bill x1 26. Its purpose is to expeditiously 
wind down the affairs of the dissolved Redevelopment Agency (RDA). The Successor Agency is a separate public 
entity from the City, subject to the direction of an oversight board. The City Council serves as the governing 
board of the Successor Agency. In general, the Successor Agency’s assets can only be used to pay enforceable 
obligations in existence at the date of dissolution (including the completion of any unfinished projects that were 
subject to legally enforceable contractual commitments). In future fiscal years, the Successor Agency will only 
be allocated revenue in the amount that is necessary to pay the estimated annual installment payments on 
enforceable obligations of the former RDA until all enforceable obligations of the former RDA have been paid 
in full and all assets have been liquidated. Based upon the nature of the Successor Agency’s custodial role, the 
Successor Agency has been included in the accompanying basic financial statements as a private purpose trust 
fund. In February 2015, the California Department of Finance (Finance) approved the City’s revised Long-Range 
Property Management Plan (LRPMP), with the assets deemed for governmental use and future development. The 
Department of Finance approved the amendment to the Last and Final ROPS, and its confirmation that this entire 
transaction would be considered the first of two allowed amendments to the Last and Final ROPS in a letter dated 
December 13, 2017. Refer to Note 18 for additional information relating the Successor Agency. 
 
C. Deferred Outflows and Inflows of Resources  
 
The Statement of Net Position and Balance Sheet – Governmental Funds reports separate sections for Deferred 
Outflows of Resources, and Deferred Inflows of Resources, when applicable. 
 
Deferred Outflows of Resources represent a consumption of net assets that applies to future period(s) and 
so will not be recognized as an outflow of resources (expense/ expenditure) until then.  
 
Deferred Inflows of Resources represent an acquisition of net assets that applies to a future period(s) and 
so will not be recognized as an inflow of resources (revenue) until that time.  
 
D. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments 
 
The City pools its available cash for investment purposes. The City considers pooled cash and investment amounts, 
with original maturities of three months or less, to be cash equivalents.  
174 of 356

--- page 175 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
66 
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
 
D. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments (Continued) 
 
Investments are reported in the accompanying financial statements at fair value, except for certain investment 
contracts that are reported at cost because they are not transferable and they have terms that are not affected by 
changes in market interest rates. Changes in fair value that occur during a fiscal year are recognized as 
investment income reported for that fiscal year, and may result in negative investment income in the 
accompanying financial statements. Investment income includes interest earnings, changes in fair value, and 
any gains or losses realized upon the liquidation, maturity, or sale of investments. 
 
Investment income earned by the pooled investments is allocated to the various funds based on each fund's 
average cash and investment balance, except for investment income associated with funds not legally required to 
receive pooled investment income which has been assigned to and recorded as revenue of the general fund, as 
provided by California Government Code Section 53647. 
 
For purposes of the statement of cash flows, amounts reported as cash and cash equivalents, include amounts on 
deposit in the City pool and any short-term, highly liquid investments that are both readily convertible to known 
amounts of cash or so near their maturity that they present insignificant risk of changes in value because of 
changes in interest rates.  
 
Certain disclosure requirements, if applicable, for deposits and investment risks in the following areas:  
 
 Interest rate risk 
 Credit risk 
- 
Overall 
- 
Custodial credit risk 
- 
Concentration of credit risk 
 
In addition, other disclosures are specified including use of certain methods to present deposits and investments, 
highly sensitive investments, credit quality at year-end and other disclosures. 
 
U.S. GAAP establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and establishes disclosures about fair value 
measurement. Investments, unless otherwise specified, recorded at fair value in the Statements of Net Position, are 
categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their fair value. 
 
Levels of inputs are as follows: 
 
Level 1 – Inputs are unadjusted, quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets at the 
measurement date. 
 
Level 2 – Inputs, other than quoted prices included in Level 1, which are observable for the assets or liabilities 
through corroboration with market data at the measurement date. 
 
Level 3 – Unobservable inputs that reflect management’s best estimate of what market participants would use 
in pricing the assets or liabilities at the measurement date. 
 
E. Restricted Cash and Investments 
 
Certain restricted cash and investments are held by fiscal agents for the redemption of bonded debt, for acquisition 
and construction of capital projects, and to meet bond indenture debt reserve requirements.  
175 of 356

--- page 176 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
67 
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
 
F. Receivables 
 
Customer or trade receivables are reported as “accounts receivable” and are shown net of an allowance for 
uncollectible accounts based on historical and management estimates.  
 
Noncurrent portions of long-term receivables (e.g., “notes receivable”) due to governmental fund types are reported 
in their respective balance sheets despite their spending measurement focus. Recognition of governmental fund 
type revenues represented by noncurrent receivables are deferred until they become current receivables. Noncurrent 
portions of long-term notes receivable are offset by restricted fund balance in the special revenue funds. 
 
G. Interfund Transactions 
 
Activity between funds that are representative of lending/borrowing arrangements outstanding at the end of the 
fiscal year are referred to as either “due to/from other funds” or “advances to/from other funds” (i.e., the current 
portion of interfund loans). Any residual balances outstanding between the governmental activities and business-
type activities are reported in the Governmental-Wide Financial Statements as “internal balances.” 
 
H. Inventories and Prepaid Items 
 
Inventory, consisting of expendable supplies, is valued at first in first out basis. The cost of governmental funds 
inventory is recorded as expenditure at the time the individual inventory is consumed. Prepaid items are recorded 
at cost. Using the consumption method, prepaid items are recorded as expenditures over the period that service is 
provided. Reported inventory and prepaid items are equally offset by a fund balance reservation, which indicates 
that they do not constitute “available spendable resources” even though they are a component of current assets. 
 
I. Leases 
 
Lessee 
 
The City has a policy to recognize a lease liability and a right‐to‐use lease asset (lease asset) in the government‐
wide financial statements. The City recognizes lease liabilities with an initial, individual value of $100,000 or more.  
 
At the commencement of a lease, the City initially measures the lease liability at the present value of payments 
expected to be made during the lease term. Subsequently, the lease liability is reduced by the principal portion of 
lease payments made.  
 
Lease assets are recorded at the amount of the initial measurement of the lease liabilities and modified by any lease 
payments made to the lessor at or before the commencement of the lease term, less any lease incentives received 
from the lessor at or before the commencement of the lease term along with any initial direct costs that are ancillary 
charges necessary to place the lease assets into service. Lease assets are amortized using the straight-line method 
over the shorter of the lease term or the useful life of the underlying asset, unless the lease contains a purchase 
option that the City has determined is reasonably certain of being exercised. In this case, the lease asset is amortized 
over the useful life of the underlying asset. 
 
Key estimates and judgments related to leases include how the City determines (1) the discount rate it uses to 
discount the expected lease payments to present value, (2) lease term, and (3) lease payments. 
 
 
The City uses the interest rate charged by the lessor as the discount rate. When the interest rate charged by 
the lessor is not provided, the City generally uses its estimated incremental borrowing rate as the discount 
rate for leases.
176 of 356

--- page 177 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
68 
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
 
I. Leases (Continued) 
 
Lessee (Continued) 
 
 
The lease term includes the noncancellable period of the lease. Lease payments included in the 
measurement of the lease liability are composed of fixed payments and purchase option price that the City 
is reasonably certain to exercise.  
 
The City monitors changes in circumstances that would require a remeasurement of its lease and will remeasure 
any lease asset and liability if certain changes occur that are expected to significantly affect the amount of the lease 
liability.  
 
Lease assets are reported as right to use along with other capital assets and lease liabilities are reported with long-
term debt on the statement of net position. 
 
Lessor 
 
The City is a lessor for leases of special purpose facilities, office and commercial space, and land. The City 
recognizes leases receivable and deferred inflows of resources in the financial Statements.  
 
At the commencement of a lease, the City initially measures the lease receivable at the present value of payments 
expected to be received during the lease term. Subsequently, the lease receivable is reduced by the principal portion 
of lease payments received. The deferred inflows of resources are initially measured as the initial amount of the 
lease receivable, adjusted for lease payments received at or before the lease commencement date. Subsequently, the 
deferred inflows of resources are recognized as revenue over the life of the lease term in a systematic and rational 
method.  
 
Key estimates and judgments include how the City determines (1) the discount rate it uses to discount the expected 
lease receipts to present value, (2) lease term, and (3) lease receipts. 
 
 
The City uses its estimated incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate for leases.  
 
The lease term includes the noncancellable period of the lease. Lease receipts included in the measurement 
of the lease receivable is composed of fixed payments from the lessee.  
 
The City monitors changes in circumstances that would require a remeasurement of its lease and will remeasure the 
lease receivable and deferred inflows of resources if certain changes occur that are expected to significantly affect 
the amount of the lease receivable. 
 
J. Subscription-Based Information Technology Arrangements (SBITAs) 
 
The City has a policy to recognize a SBITA liability and a right‐to‐use subscription asset (SBITA asset) in our 
financial statements with an initial, individual value of $100,000 or more with a subscription term greater than one 
year.  
 
At the commencement of a subscription, when the subscription asset is placed into service, the SBITA liability is 
measured at the present value of payments expected to be made during the subscription term. Future subscription 
payments are discounted using the City's incremental borrowing rate and the City recognizes amortization of the 
discount on the subscription liability as interest expense in subsequent financial reporting periods. 
 
177 of 356

--- page 178 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
69 
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
 
J. Subscription-Based Information Technology Arrangements (SBITAs) (Continued) 
 
SBITA assets are measured as the sum of the initial subscription liability, payments made to the SBITA vendor 
before the commencement of the lease term, and capitalizable implementation costs less any incentives received 
from the SBITA vendor at or before the commencement of the subscription term. Subscription assets are amortized 
using the straight-line method over the subscription term. 
 
Key estimates and judgments related to SBITAs include how the City determines (1) the discount rate it uses to 
discount the expected subscription payments to present value, (2) subscription term, and (3) subscription payments. 
 
- 
The City uses the interest rate charged by the SBITA vendor as the discount rate. When the interest rate 
charged by the SBITA vendor is not provided, the City generally uses its estimated incremental borrowing 
rate as the discount rate for SBITAs. 
 
- 
The subscription term includes the period during which the City has a noncancelable right to use the 
underlying IT asset. The subscription term also includes periods covered by an option to extend if it is 
reasonably certain to be exercised. 
 
- 
Subscription payments included in the measurement of the subscription liability are composed of fixed 
payments and purchase option years that the City is reasonably certain to exercise. The City monitors 
changes in circumstances that would require a remeasurement of a subscription and will remeasure any 
subscription asset and liability if certain changes occur that are expected to significantly affect the amount 
of the subscription liability. 
 
Right-to-use subscription assets are reported along with other capital assets and subscription liabilities are reported 
with long-term debt on the statement of net position. 
 
K. Capital Assets 
 
Capital assets, which include property, plant, equipment, the right to use leased equipment, and infrastructure assets, 
are reported in the applicable governmental or business-type activities columns in the government-wide financial 
statements. Such assets are recorded at historical cost (except for intangible right‐to‐use lease assets, the measurement of 
which is discussed in note 1.I. above) or estimated historical cost if purchased or constructed. Donated assets are valued 
at the fair value of the assets on the date on which they were contributed. Donated works of art and similar items, 
and capital assets received in a service concession arrangement are reported at acquisition value rather than fair 
value. The costs of normal maintenance and repairs that do not add to the value of the asset or materially extend 
assets lives are not capitalized. The City utilizes a capitalization threshold of $5,000 - $25,000 depending on asset 
type. 
 
Depreciation is charged to operations using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets as 
follows: 
 
Capitalization
Asset Type
Threshold
General capital assets
$10,000
Infrastructure capital assets
$100,000
Intangible assets
$1,000,000
 
 
 
178 of 356

--- page 179 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
70 
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
 
K. Capital Assets (Continued) 
 
Depreciation is charged to operations using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets as 
follows: 
 
Asset Type
Years
Sewer treatment plant 
and transmission lines
up to 60
Buildings and improvements
20 - 40
Machinery and equipment
2 - 30
Infrastructure
25 - 60
Lease and subscription assets
Contract term
 
 
For all infrastructure systems, the City elected to use the Basic Approach as defined by GASB Statement No. 34 
for infrastructure reporting. The City defines infrastructure as the basic physical assets that allow the City to 
function. The assets include the streets, water purification and distribution system, sewer collection and treatment 
system, parks and recreation, lands and improvement system, storm water conveyance system, and buildings 
combined with the site amenities such as parking and landscaped areas used by the City in the conduct of its 
business. Each major infrastructure system can be divided into subsystems. For example, the street system can be 
subdivided into pavement, curb and gutters, sidewalks, medians, streetlights, traffic control devices (signs, signals 
and pavement markings), landscaping and land. These subsystems were not delineated in the basic financial 
statements. The appropriate operating department maintains information regarding the subsystems. 
 
For all other infrastructure systems, the City elected to use the Basic Approach as defined by GASB Statement No. 
34. The City appraised its own infrastructure as of July 1, 2002. The 2002 appraisal determined the original cost, 
which is defined as the actual cost to acquire new property in accordance with market prices at the time of first 
construction/acquisition. Original costs were developed in one of three ways:  
 
1. Historical records;  
2. Standard unit costs appropriate for the construction/acquisition date; 
3. Present cost indexed by a reciprocal factor of the price increase from the construction/acquisition date 
to the current date. 
 
The accumulated depreciation from the date of construction/acquisition to the current date was computed using 
industry accepted life expectancies for each infrastructure subsystem. The book value was then computed by 
deducting the accumulated depreciation from the original cost. 
 
L. Long-Term Debt 
 
Government-Wide Financial Statements and Proprietary Fund Financial Statements 
 
Long-term debt and other financial obligations are reported as liabilities in the appropriate funds. Bond premiums 
and discounts are deferred and amortized over the life of the bonds using straight line method. Bonds payable are 
reported net of the applicable premium or discount. Issuance costs are expensed when incurred. Gains or losses on 
bond refunding are reported as either deferred outflows of resources or deferred inflows of resources and amortized 
over the term of the related debt. 
179 of 356

--- page 180 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
71 
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
 
L. Long-Term Debt (Continued) 
 
Governmental Fund Financial Statements 
 
The governmental fund financial statements do not present long-term debt but are shown in the Reconciliation of 
the Governmental Funds Balance Sheet to the Government-Wide Statement of Net Position. Governmental fund 
types recognize bond premiums and discounts during the current period. The face amount of debt issued is reported 
as other financing sources. Premiums received on debt issuances are reported as other financing sources while 
discounts on debt issuances are reported as other financing uses. Debt issuance costs, whether or not withheld from 
the actual debt proceeds received, are reported as debt service expenditures. 
 
M. Compensated Absences 
 
The City’s policy permits employees to accumulate earned but unused vacation benefits, which are eligible for 
payment upon separation from government service. The liability for such leave is reported as incurred in the 
government-wide and proprietary fund financial statements. A liability for those amounts is recorded in the 
governmental funds only if the liability has matured as a result of employee resignations or retirements. The liability 
for compensated absences includes salary-related benefits, where applicable. 
 
Government-Wide Financial Statements 
 
For governmental and business-type activities, compensated absences are recorded as expenses when earned. 
 
Fund Financial Statements 
 
For governmental funds, compensated absences are recorded as expenditures in the year paid. The General Fund is 
typically used to liquidate compensated absences. In proprietary funds, compensated absences are expensed to the 
various funds in the period they are earned, and such fund’s share of the unpaid liability is recorded as a long-term 
liability of the fund. 
 
N. Claims and Judgments Payable 
 
The short-term and long-term workers’ compensation claims liability is reported in the Workers’ Compensation 
Insurance Internal Service Fund. The short-term and long-term general claims liability is reported in the 
Comprehensive Liability Insurance Internal Service Fund. The short-term liability which will be liquidated with 
current financial resources is the amount of settlement reached, but unpaid, related to claims and judgments entered. 
Under the modified accrual basis, the following revenue sources are considered to be susceptible to accrual property 
taxes, sales taxes, federal and state grants. 
 
O. Pension Plans 
 
For purposes of measuring the net pension liability, deferred outflows of resources and deferred inflows of resources 
related to pensions, and pension expense, information about the fiduciary net position of the plans and additions 
to/deductions from the plans’ fiduciary net position have been determined on the same basis as they are reported 
by the plans (Note 11). For this purpose, benefit payments (including refunds of employee contributions) are 
recognized when due and payable in accordance with benefit terms. Investments are reported at fair value. The 
General Fund and Internal Service Funds are typically used to liquidate the pension liability related to the City's 
governmental activities while the pension liability for Business-type activities is liquidated from the respective 
Enterprise Funds. 
180 of 356

--- page 181 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
72 
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
 
O. Pension Plans (Continued) 
 
The following timeframes are used for pension reporting: 
 
Valuation date
June 30, 2022
Measurement date
June 30, 2023
Measurement period
July 1, 2022 to June 30, 2023
 
 
Gains and losses related to changes in total pension liability and fiduciary net position are recognized in pension 
expense systematically over time. The first amortized amounts are recognized in pension expense for the year the 
gain or loss occurs. The remaining amounts are categorized as deferred outflows and deferred inflows of resources 
related to pensions and are to be recognized in future pension expense. The amortization period differs depending 
on the source of the gain or loss. The difference between projected and actual earnings is amortized straight-line 
over 5 years. All other amounts are amortized straight-line over the average expected remaining service lives of all 
members that are provided with benefits (active, inactive, and retired) as of the beginning of the measurement 
period. 
 
P. Other Postemployment Benefits (OPEB) 
 
For purposes of measuring the net OPEB liability, deferred outflows of resources and deferred inflows of resources 
related to OPEB, and OPEB expense, information about the fiduciary net position of the OPEB plan, the assets of 
which are held in an irrevocable trust, and additions to/deductions from the OPEB plan’s fiduciary net position have 
been determined by an independent actuary (Note 12). For this purpose, benefit payments are recognized when 
currently due and payable in accordance with the benefit terms. Investments are reported at fair value. The 
Enterprise Funds are used to liquidate the OPEB liability. 
 
Generally accepted accounting principles require that the reported results must pertain to liability and fiduciary net 
position information within certain defined timeframes. For this report, the following timeframes are used:  
 
Valuation date
June 30, 2023
Measurement date
June 30, 2023
Measurement period
July 1, 2022 to June 30, 2023
 
 
Q. Fund Balances 
 
In the Governmental Fund Financial Statements, fund balances are classified in the following categories:  
 
Nonspendable – Items cannot be spent because they are not in spendable form, such as prepaid items and 
inventories, items that are legally or contractually required to be maintained intact, such as principal of an 
endowment or revolving loan funds.  
 
Restricted – Restricted fund balances encompass the portion of net fund resources subject to externally 
enforceable legal restrictions. This includes externally imposed restrictions by creditors, such as through debt 
covenants, grantors, contributors, laws or regulations of other governments, as well as restrictions imposed by 
law through constitutional provisions or enabling legislation. 
 
Committed – Committed fund balances encompass the portion of net fund resources, the use of which is 
constrained by limitations that the government imposes upon itself at its highest level of decision making 
(normally the governing body) and that remain binding unless removed in the same manner. The City Council 
is considered the highest authority for the City. A City Council resolution is required to have fund balance 
committed. 
181 of 356

--- page 182 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
73 
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
 
Q. Fund Balances (Continued) 
 
Assigned – Assigned fund balances encompass the portion of net fund resources reflecting the government’s 
intended use of resources. Assignment of resources can be done by the highest level of decision making or by 
a committee or official designated for that purpose. The City Council has not delegated the authority to assign 
fund balance to management. 
 
Unassigned – This category is for any balances that have no restrictions placed upon them. The General Fund 
is the only fund that reports a positive unassigned fund balance amount. In other governmental funds it is not 
appropriate to report a positive unassigned fund balance amount. However, in governmental funds other than 
the General Fund, if expenditures incurred for specific purposes exceed the amounts that are restricted, 
committed, or assigned to those purposes, it may be necessary to report a negative unassigned fund balance in 
that fund. 
 
R. Net Position 
 
For the Government-Wide Financial Statements, net position is classified in the following categories:  
 
Net Investment in Capital Assets component of net position consists of capital assets, net of accumulated 
depreciation and amortization and reduced by any debt outstanding and any deferred outflows/inflows of 
resources related to such borrowings that are attributable to the acquisition, construction or improvement of 
those assets. If there are significant unspent related debt proceeds at year-end, the portion of the debt attributable 
to the unspent proceeds is not included in the calculation of net investment in capital assets. Rather, that portion 
of the debt is offset by unspent proceeds. 
 
Restricted component of net position consists of restricted assets reduced by liabilities and deferred inflows of 
resources related to those assets.  
 
Unrestricted component of net position is the amount of the assets, deferred outflows of resources, liabilities, 
and deferred inflows of resources that are not included in the determination of net investment in capital assets 
or the restricted component of net position. 
 
When both restricted and unrestricted resources are available for use, the City’s policy is to use restricted resources 
first, then unrestricted resources that are needed. 
 
S. Property Taxes 
 
San Mateo County (the “County”) assesses properties and it bills, collects, and distributes property taxes to all 
taxing entities within its jurisdiction including the City. Under State law, known as the Teeter Plan, the County 
remits the entire secure amount levied and handles all delinquencies, retaining interest and penalties. Secured and 
unsecured property taxes are assessed on January 1. Secured property tax is due in two installments, on November 1 
and March 1. It becomes delinquent on December 10 and April 10, respectively. Unsecured property tax is due on 
July 1, and becomes delinquent on August 31. Collection of delinquent accounts is the responsibility of the County, 
which retains all penalties. 
 
The term “unsecured” refers to taxes on personal property other than real estate, land and buildings. These taxes 
are secured by liens on the property being taxed. Property tax revenues are recognized by the City in the fiscal year 
they are levied provided they become available as defined above. 
182 of 356

--- page 183 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
74 
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
 
T. Use of Accounting Estimates 
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates 
and assumptions, in some cases when applicable, that affect the amounts in the financial statements and the 
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from the estimates. 
 
U. Implementation of New GASB Pronouncements for the Year Ended June 30, 2024 
 
The requirements of the following accounting standards are effective for the purpose of implementation, if 
applicable to the City, for the year ended June 30, 2024. The financial statements included herein apply the 
requirements and provisions of these statements, including necessary retroactive adjustments to financial statement 
classifications and presentations.  
 
GASB Statement No. 100 – In June 2022, GASB issued Statement No. 100, Accounting Changes and Error 
Corrections – an Amendment of GASB Statement No. 62. The primary objective of this Statement is to enhance 
accounting and financial reporting requirements for accounting changes and error corrections to provide more 
understandable, reliable, relevant, consistent, and comparable information for making decisions or assessing 
accountability. Implementation of this Statement had a moderate effect on the City’s financial statements for the 
fiscal year ended June 30, 2024. 
 
V. Upcoming Government Accounting Standards Implementations  
 
The City is currently analyzing its accounting practices to determine the potential impact on the financial statements 
for the following GASB statements: 
 
GASB Statement No. 101 – In June 2022, GASB issued Statement No. 101, Compensated Absences. The objective 
of this Statement is to better meet the information needs of financial statement users by updating the recognition 
and measurement guidance for compensated absences. That objective is achieved by aligning the recognition and 
measurement guidance under a unified model and by amending certain previously required disclosures. Application 
of this statement is effective for the City’s fiscal year ending June 30, 2025. 
 
GASB Statement No. 102 – In December 2023, GASB issued Statement No. 102, Certain Risk Disclosures. This 
Statement requires a government to assess whether a concentration or constraint makes the primary government 
reporting unit or other reporting units that report a liability for revenue debt vulnerable to the risk of a substantial 
impact. Additionally, this Statement requires a government to assess whether an event or events associated with a 
concentration or constraint that could cause the substantial impact have occurred, have begun to occur, or are more 
likely than not to begin to occur within 12 months of the date the financial statements are issued. Application of 
this statement is effective for the City’s fiscal year ending June 30, 2025. 
 
GASB Statement No. 103 – In April 2024, GASB issued Statement No. 103, Financial Reporting Model 
Improvements. The objective of this Statement is to improve key components of the financial reporting model to 
enhance its effectiveness in providing information that is essential for decision making and assessing a 
government’s accountability. Application of this statement is effective for the City’s fiscal year ending 
June 30, 2026.  
 
 
 
 
183 of 356

--- page 184 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
75 
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
 
V. Upcoming Government Accounting Standards Implementations (Continued) 
 
GASB Statement No. 104 – In September 2024, GASB issued Statement No. 104, Disclosure of Certain Capital 
Assets. This Statement requires certain types of capital assets to be disclosed separately in the capital assets note 
disclosures required by Statement 34. Lease assets recognized in accordance with Statement No. 87, Leases, and 
intangible right-to-use assets recognized in accordance with Statement No. 94, Public-Private and Public-Public 
Partnerships and Availability Payment Arrangements, should be disclosed separately by major class of underlying 
asset in the capital assets note disclosures. Subscription assets recognized in accordance with Statement No. 96, 
Subscription-Based Information Technology Arrangements, also should be separately disclosed. In addition, this 
Statement requires intangible assets other than those three types to be disclosed separately by major class.  
Application of this statement is effective for the City’s fiscal year ending June 30, 2026. 
 
 
Note 2 – Cash and Investments 
 
Cash and investments are presented in the accompanying financial statements at June 30, 2024 as follows: 
 
Fiduciary
Governmental
Business-Type
Fund Financial
Activities
Activities
Total
Statements
Total
Cash and investments
Held by City Treasury
326,227,149
$      
133,397,595
$      
459,624,744
$      
8,714,269
$          
468,339,013
$      
Restricted cash and investments: Held by fiscal agents
21,216,358
          
51,978,422
          
73,194,780
          
3,579,206
            
76,773,986
          
Total cash and investments
347,443,507
$      
185,376,017
$      
532,819,524
$      
12,293,475
$        
545,112,999
$      
Government -Wide Statement of Net Position
 
 
Cash and investments at June 30, 2024, consisted of the following: 
 
Cash on hand and deposits:
Cash on hand
13,466
$               
Deposits with financial institution
7,058,913
            
Total cash on hand and deposits
7,072,379
            
Investments:
Local Area Investment Funds (LAIF)
21,015,655
          
CAMP
133,272,859
        
San Mateo County Pool
52,873,850
          
Investments 
254,104,270
        
Total investments
461,266,634
        
Cash and investments with fiscal agent
76,773,986
          
Total cash and investments
545,112,999
$      
 
 
The City maintains a cash and investment pool for all funds. Certain restricted funds that are held an invested by 
independent outside custodians through contractual agreements are not pooled. These restricted funds include cash 
and investment held by trustees. 
 
 
 
 
184 of 356

--- page 185 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
76 
Note 2 – Cash and Investments (Continued) 
 
A. Demand Deposits 
 
The carrying amounts of the City’s demand deposits were $7,058,913 at June 30, 2024. Bank balances were 
$5,736,530 at that date, the total amount of which was collateralized or insured with securities held by the 
pledging financial institutions in the City’s name as discussed below. 
 
The California Government Code requires California banks and savings and loan associations to secure the City’s 
cash deposits by pledging securities as collateral. This Code states that collateral pledged in this manner shall 
have the effect of perfecting a security interest in such collateral superior to those of a general creditor. Thus, 
collateral for cash deposits is considered to be held in the City's name. 
 
The market value of pledged securities must equal at least 110% of the City's cash deposits. California law also 
allows institutions to secure City’s deposits by pledging first trust deed mortgage notes having a value of 150% 
of the City’s total cash deposits. The City may waive collateral requirements for cash deposits, which are fully 
insured up to $250,000 by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). The City, however, has not 
waived the collateralization requirements. 
 
The City follows the practice of pooling cash and investments of all funds, except for funds required to be held by 
fiscal agents under the provisions of bond indentures. Interest income earned on pooled cash and investments is 
allocated to the various funds based on the period-end cash and investment balances. Interest income from cash and 
investments with fiscal agents is credited directly to the related fund. 
 
B. Investments Authorized by the California Government Code and the City’s Investment Policy 
 
The table below identifies the investment types that are authorized for the City by the California Government Code 
and the City's investment policy. The table also identifies certain provisions of the California Government Code (or 
the City's investment policy, if more restrictive) that address interest rate risk and concentration of credit risk. This 
table does not address investments of debt proceeds held by bond trustees that are governed by the provisions of 
debt agreements of the City, rather than the general provisions of the California Government Code or the City's 
investment policy. 
 
Maximum
Maximum
Maximum
Percentage
Investment in
Authorized Investment Types
Maturity
of Portfolio
One Issuer*
Securities issued by the U.S. Treasury 
5 years
None
None
U.S. Agency Securities and Instrumentalies
5 years
70%
40%
Mortgage-Backed Securities
5 years
20%
20%
Banker's acceptance
180 days
10%
5%
Repurchase agreements 
90 days
10%
10%
Local Agency Investment Fund 
N/A
65%
65%
San Mateo County Pool
N/A
30%
30%
California Asset Management Program 
N/A
20%
20%
Money Market/Mutual Funds
N/A
20%
10%
Prime Commercial Paper
270 days
10%
5%
Medium-term Corporate Notes 
5 years 
30%
5%
Obligations of State of California or Other 
California Local Agency 
5 years 
20%
5%
Non-negotiable Certificates of Deposit 
3 years
30%
5%
Negotiable Certificates of Deposit
5 years 
30%
5%
Asset-Backed Securities 
5 years 
10%
5%
Non-Agency Mortgage Securities 
5 years 
10%
5%
* Based on state law requirements or City investment policy requirements, whichever is more restrictive. 
 
185 of 356

--- page 186 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
77 
Note 2 – Cash and Investments (Continued) 
 
C. Fair Value Measurement 
 
At June 30, 2024, investments, excluding restricted cash and investments held by fiscal agent, are reported at fair 
value based on quoted market prices. The table on the following page presents the fair value measurements of 
investments recognized in the accompanying Financial Statements measured at fair value on a recurring basis and 
the level within GASB 72 fair value hierarchy in which the fair value measurements fall at June 30, 2024. 
 
Treasury Securities, Federal Farm Credit Bank Bonds, Federal Home Loan Banks, Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
Corporation Notes and Mortgage-Backed Securities, Federal National Mortgage Association Notes, and 
Corporate Notes categorized as Level 2 are valued based on matrix pricing which use observable market inputs 
such as yield curves and market indices that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market 
data by correlation to other means. Investments included in restricted cash and investments included money 
market accounts, guaranteed investment contracts, are not subject to fair value hierarchy. 
186 of 356

--- page 187 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
78 
Note 2 – Cash and Investments (Continued) 
 
C. Fair Value Measurement (Continued) 
 
Percentage of
Investment Type 
Fair Value
Investments
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Investments measured by fair value level:
U.S. Government Treasury and Agencies:
Federal Farm Credit Bank Bonds (FFCB)
9,081,912
$       
1.97%
-
$                     
9,081,912
$       
-
$                     
Federal Home Loan Bank Bonds (FHLB)
30,824,853
       
6.68%
-
                       
30,824,853
       
-
                       
Federal Home Loan Mortg. Corp. (FHLMC)
4,263,437
         
0.92%
-
                       
4,263,437
         
-
                       
Federal Natl. Mortg. Assn. Notes (FNMA)
4,751,341
         
1.03%
-
                       
4,751,341
         
-
                       
US Treasuries 
99,998,532
       
21.68%
-
                       
99,998,532
       
-
                       
Corporate Notes:
Amazon.com Inc
2,325,844
         
0.50%
-
                       
2,325,844
         
-
                       
Apple Inc
705,069
            
0.15%
-
                       
705,069
            
-
                       
Bank of America Corp.
2,844,241
         
0.62%
-
                       
2,844,241
         
-
                       
Bank of Montreal
686,982
            
0.15%
-
                       
686,982
            
-
                       
Berkshire Hathaway
806,141
            
0.17%
-
                       
806,141
            
-
                       
Caterpillar Financial Service
2,944,028
         
0.64%
-
                       
2,944,028
         
-
                       
Charles Schwab Corp.
693,574
            
0.15%
-
                       
693,574
            
-
                       
Chubb INA Holdings Inc.
1,451,466
         
0.31%
-
                       
1,451,466
         
-
                       
Cisco Systems Inc.
1,189,790
         
0.26%
-
                       
1,189,790
         
-
                       
Duke Energy Carolinas LLC
1,923,080
         
0.42%
-
                       
1,923,080
         
-
                       
Guardian Life
1,544,775
         
0.33%
-
                       
1,544,775
         
-
                       
Home Depot Inc
1,690,101
         
0.37%
-
                       
1,690,101
         
-
                       
Honeywell Intl
2,216,156
         
0.48%
-
                       
2,216,156
         
-
                       
John Deere Capital Corp
1,978,757
         
0.43%
-
                       
1,978,757
         
-
                       
JP Morgan Chase & Co
924,024
            
0.20%
-
                       
924,024
            
-
                       
Mass Mutual
2,827,871
         
0.61%
-
                       
2,827,871
         
-
                       
Metlife
2,631,692
         
0.57%
-
                       
2,631,692
         
-
                       
Morgan Stanley
994,345
            
0.22%
-
                       
994,345
            
-
                       
National Rural Utilities
2,746,799
         
0.60%
-
                       
2,746,799
         
-
                       
New York Life Global
3,117,325
         
0.68%
-
                       
3,117,325
         
-
                       
Northwestern Mutual
1,979,833
         
0.43%
-
                       
1,979,833
         
-
                       
Paccar Financial Corp
1,287,388
         
0.28%
-
                       
1,287,388
         
-
                       
Prologis
2,617,131
         
0.57%
-
                       
2,617,131
         
-
                       
Realty Income Corp
2,138,252
         
0.46%
-
                       
2,138,252
         
-
                       
Royal Bank of Canada
3,049,571
         
0.66%
-
                       
3,049,571
         
-
                       
Target Corp
395,506
            
0.09%
-
                       
395,506
            
-
                       
Toronto-Dominion Bank
4,123,141
         
0.89%
-
                       
4,123,141
         
-
                       
Toyota Motor Credit Corp
2,308,032
         
0.50%
-
                       
2,308,032
         
-
                       
Truist Financial Corp
416,310
            
0.09%
-
                       
416,310
            
-
                       
United Health Group Inc
2,545,486
         
0.55%
-
                       
2,545,486
         
-
                       
Wal-Mart Stores
2,119,168
         
0.46%
-
                       
2,119,168
         
-
                       
Supranational
2,829,727
         
0.61%
-
                       
2,829,727
         
-
                       
Asset-Backed Securities
17,236,645
       
3.74%
-
                       
17,236,645
       
-
                       
Collateralized Mortgage Obligations 
24,944,160
       
5.41%
-
                       
24,944,160
       
-
                       
Total investments subject to fair value
253,152,485
     
-
$                     
253,152,485
$   
-
$                     
Investments not subject to the fair value hierarchy:
Money Market Funds
951,785
            
0.21%
Local Agency Investment Fund
21,015,655
       
4.56%
California Asset Management Program
133,272,859
     
28.89%
San Mateo County Pool 
52,873,850
       
11.46%
Total investments
461,266,634
$   
100.00%
Fair Value Measurement Using 
 
 
187 of 356

--- page 188 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
79 
Note 2 – Cash and Investments (Continued) 
 
D. Risk Disclosure 
 
Disclosures Relating to Custodial Credit Risk 
 
Custodial credit risk for deposits is the risk that, in the event of the failure of a depository financial institution, a 
government will not be able to recover its deposits or will not be able to recover collateral securities that are in 
the possession of an outside party. The custodial credit risk for investments is the risk that, in the event of the 
failure of the counterparty (e.g., broker-dealer) to a transaction, a government will not be able to recover the 
value of its investment or collateral securities that are in the possession of another party. The California 
Government Code and the City’s investment policy do not contain legal or policy requirements that would limit 
the exposure to custodial credit risk for deposits or investments, other than the following provision for deposits: 
The California Government Code requires that a financial institution secure deposits made by state or local 
governmental units by pledging securities in an undivided collateral pool held by a depository regulated under 
state law (unless so waived by the governmental unit). The market value of the pledged securities in the collateral 
pool must equal at least 110% of the total amount deposited by the public agencies. California law also allows 
financial institutions to secure City deposits by pledging first trust deed mortgage notes having a value of 150% 
of the secured public deposits. At June 30, 2024, the City’s deposits (bank balances) were collateralized under 
California Law. 
 
Disclosure Relating to Concentration of Credit Risk 
 
The investment policy of the City contains requirements that no more than 5 percent of the total portfolio may be 
deposited with or invested in securities issued by any single issuer unless otherwise specified in this policy. GASB 
Statement No. 40 requires disclosure by amount and issuer, of investments in any one issuer that represent 5% or 
more of total investments. At June 30, 2024, the City had the followings investment (other than U.S. Treasury 
securities, mutual funds, and external investment pools) that represents 5% or more of the City's total investments: 
Issuer
Amount
Federal Home Loan Bank Bonds (FHLB)
30,824,853
$ 
Investment Type
Federal Agency Obligations
 
 
Disclosures Relating to Interest Rate Risk 
 
Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in market interest rate will adversely affect the fair value of an investment. 
Generally, the longer the maturity of an investment, the greater the sensitivity of its fair value to changes in market 
interest rates. One of the ways that the City manages its exposure to interest rate risk is by purchasing a combination 
of shorter term and longer term investments and by timing cash flows from maturities so that a portion of the 
portfolio is maturing or coming close to maturity evenly over time as necessary to provide the cash flow and 
liquidity needed for operations. 
 
As a means of maintaining liquidity, the City’s investment policy limits are as follows: 
 
Maturity
% of Portfolio
Up to six months
25% (Minimum)
Six months to five years
75% (Maximum)  
 
Information about the sensitivity of the fair values of the City’s investments (including investments held by bond 
trustee) to market interest rate fluctuations is provided by the following table that shows the distribution of the 
City’s investments by maturity. For purposes of the schedule shown on the next page, any callable securities are 
assumed to be held to maturity.
188 of 356

--- page 189 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
80 
Note 2 – Cash and Investments (Continued) 
 
D. Risk Disclosure (Continued) 
 
Disclosures Relating to Interest Rate Risk (Continued) 
 
Investment Type
Fair Value
1 year or less
1-2 years
2-3 years
3-4 years
4 years or more
Investments:
U.S. Government Treasury and Agencies:
Federal Farm Credit Bank Bonds (FFCB)
9,081,912
$          
-
$                        
-
$                        
4,679,222
$          
4,402,690
$          
-
$                        
Federal Home Loan Bank Bonds (FHLB)
30,824,853
          
-
                          
21,412,326
          
4,805,954
            
4,606,573
            
-
                          
Federal Home Loan Mortg. Corp. (FHLMC)
4,263,437
            
-
                          
1,416,638
            
1,429,120
            
1,417,679
            
-
                          
Federal Natl. Mortg. Assn. Notes (FNMA)
4,751,341
            
-
                          
480,858
               
2,857,115
            
-
                          
1,413,368
            
US Treasuries 
99,998,532
          
17,867,227
          
41,668,364
          
8,237,372
            
14,053,104
          
18,172,465
          
Corporate Notes:
Amazon.com Inc
2,325,844
            
-
                          
-
                          
2,325,844
            
-
                          
-
                          
Apple Inc
705,069
               
705,069
               
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Bank of America Corp.
2,844,241
            
-
                          
1,933,942
            
910,299
               
-
                          
-
                          
Bank of Montreal
686,982
               
686,982
               
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Berkshire Hathaway
806,141
               
-
                          
806,141
               
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Caterpillar Financial Service
2,944,028
            
1,500,355
            
1,443,673
            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Charles Schwab Corp.
693,574
               
-
                          
-
                          
693,574
               
-
                          
-
                          
Chubb INA Holdings Inc.
1,451,466
            
-
                          
1,451,466
            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Cisco Systems Inc.
1,189,790
            
-
                          
-
                          
1,189,790
            
-
                          
-
                          
Duke Energy Carolinas LLC
1,923,080
            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
1,923,080
            
Guardian Life
1,544,775
            
-
                          
-
                          
800,707
               
-
                          
744,068
               
Home Depot Inc
1,690,101
            
-
                          
1,690,101
            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Honeywell Intl
2,216,156
            
-
                          
-
                          
694,314
               
1,521,842
            
-
                          
John Deere Capital Corp
1,978,757
            
-
                          
-
                          
995,740
               
-
                          
983,017
               
JP Morgan Chase & Co
924,024
               
-
                          
924,024
               
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Mass Mutual
2,827,871
            
1,502,661
            
1,325,210
            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Metlife
2,631,692
            
-
                          
1,144,460
            
-
                          
-
                          
1,487,232
            
Morgan Stanley
994,345
               
-
                          
994,345
               
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
National Rural Utilities
2,746,799
            
1,775,043
            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
971,756
               
New York Life Global
3,117,325
            
-
                          
1,131,377
            
1,985,948
            
-
                          
-
                          
Northwestern Mutual
1,979,833
            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
1,979,833
            
Paccar Financial Corp
1,287,388
            
-
                          
-
                          
1,287,388
            
-
                          
-
                          
Prologis
2,617,131
            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
2,617,131
            
-
                          
Realty Income Corp
2,138,252
            
-
                          
482,109
               
1,656,143
            
-
                          
-
                          
Royal Bank of Canada
3,049,571
            
-
                          
1,194,349
            
1,855,222
            
-
                          
-
                          
Target Corp
395,506
               
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
395,506
               
Toronto-Dominion Bank
4,123,141
            
1,323,600
            
2,799,541
            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Toyota Motor Credit Corp
2,308,032
            
-
                          
-
                          
2,308,032
            
-
                          
-
                          
Truist Financial Corp
416,310
               
-
                          
-
                          
416,310
               
-
                          
-
                          
United Health Group Inc
2,545,486
            
-
                          
754,823
               
1,790,663
            
-
                          
-
                          
Wal-Mart Stores
2,119,168
            
-
                          
170,540
               
-
                          
1,948,628
            
-
                          
Supranational
2,829,727
            
-
                          
1,415,867
            
-
                          
1,413,860
            
-
                          
Asset-Backed Securities
17,236,645
          
2,997,824
            
5,168,137
            
4,553,777
            
1,069,296
            
3,447,611
            
Collateralized Mortgage Obligations 
24,944,160
          
809,411
               
-
                          
2,167,880
            
11,718,204
          
10,248,665
          
Money Market Funds
951,785
               
-
                          
951,785
               
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Local Agency Investment Fund
21,015,655
          
21,015,655
          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
California Asset Management Program
133,272,859
        
133,272,859
        
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
San Mateo County Pool 
52,873,850
          
52,873,850
          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Total investments
461,266,634
$      
236,330,536
$      
90,760,076
$        
47,640,414
$        
44,769,007
$        
41,766,601
$        
Maturities (in years)
 
 
Disclosures Relating to Credit Risk 
 
Generally, credit risk is the risk that an issuer of an investment will not fulfill its obligation to the holder of the 
investment. This is measured by the assignment of a rating by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization. 
However, some issuers do not seek a credit rating. For instance, the California Local Agency Investment Fund 
(LAIF) has not sought or received a credit rating. In these cases, the purchaser is solely responsible for performing 
their own due diligence before purchasing an investment or participating in an external investment pool. Certificates 
of deposit of $250,000 or less are fully insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and therefore, 
do not seek a credit rating. 
189 of 356

--- page 190 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
81 
Note 2 – Cash and Investments (Continued) 
 
D. Risk Disclosure (Continued) 
 
Disclosures Relating to Credit Risk (Continued) 
 
The City mitigates credit risk through diversification in its portfolio as outlined by the City’s Investment Policy. 
The Investment Policy also guides the rating quality of purchased securities provided by Nationally Recognized 
Statistical Rating Organizations (NRSRO). As of June 30, 2024, the City’s deposits and investments were rated as 
follows: 
 
Moody's
S&P
Deposits 
P-1 to AA3
A-1+  to AA-
Investments: 
Securities of U.S. Government Agencies: 
Federal Farm Credit Bank Bonds (FFCB)
Aaa
AA+
Federal Home Loan Bank Bonds (FHLB)
Aaa
AA+
Federal Home Loan Mortg. Corp. Notes (FHLMC)
Aaa
AA+
Federal National Mortg. Assn. Notes (FNMA)
Aaa
AA+
US Treasuries 
Aaa to P-1
AA+ to A-1+
Corporate Notes:
Amazon.com Inc
A1 
 AA
Apple Inc
Aaa 
 AA+
Bank of America Corp
A1 
 A-
Bank of Montreal
A2 
 A-
Berkshire Hathaway
Aa2 
 AA
Caterpillar Financial Service
A2 
 A
Charles Schwab Corp
A2 
 A-
Chubb INA Holdings Inc
A3 
 A
Cisco Systems Inc
A1 
AA-
Duke Energy Carolinas LLC
Aa3
A
Guardian Life
Aa1 
 AA+
Home Depot Inc
A2 
A
Honeywell Intl
A2 
 A
John Deere Capital Corp
A1
A
JP Morgan Chase & Co
A1 
 A-
Mass Mutual
Aa3 
 AA+
Metlife
Aa3 
 AA-
Morgan Stanley
A1 
 A-
National Rural Utilities
A1 to A2
 A-
New York Life Global
Aaa 
 AA+
Northwestern Mutual
Aaa 
 AA+
Paccar Financial Corp
A1 
 A+
Prologis
A3 
A
Realty Income Corp
A3 
 A-
Royal Bank of Canada
A1 
 A
Target Corp
A2 
 A
Toronto-Dominion Bank
A1 
 A
Toyota Motor Credit Corp
A1 
 A+
Truist Financial Corp
Baa1
A-
United Health Group Inc
A2 
A+
Wal-Mart Stores
Aa2 
 AA
Asset-Backed Securities
Aaa to Not Rated
AAA to Not Rated 
Collateralized Mortgage Obligations 
Aaa
AA+
Local Agency Investment Funds 
Not Rated 
Not Rated 
San Mateo County Pool 
Not Rated 
Not Rated 
California Asset Management Program 
Not Rated 
AAAm
Supranational
Aaa
AAA
Money Market Funds 
Aaa
AAAm
Credit Quality Ratings 
 
190 of 356

--- page 191 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
82 
Note 2 – Cash and Investments (Continued) 
 
E. Investment in State Investment Pool 
 
The City is a participant in LAIF which is regulated by California Government Code Section 16429 under the 
oversight of the Treasurer of the State of California. As of June 30, 2024, the City had $21,015,655 invested in 
LAIF. LAIF determines fair value on its investment portfolio based on market quotations for those securities where 
market quotations are readily available and based on amortized cost or best estimate for those securities where 
market value is not readily available. LAIF is reported at amortized cost, which approximates fair value. 
 
F. Investment in California Asset Management Program (CAMP) 
 
As of June 30, 2024, the City had $133,272,859 invested in the California Asset Management Program (CAMP), 
in which the City is a voluntary participant. CAMP is an investment pool offered by the California Asset 
Management Trust (the “Trust”). The Trust is a joint powers authority and public agency created by the Declaration 
of Trust and established under the provisions of the California Joint Exercise of Powers Act for the purpose of 
exercising the common power of its Participants to invest funds. The investments are limited to investments 
permitted by California Government Code. The total amount invested by all public agencies in CAMP at 
June 30, 2024 was $20.5 billion. A board of five trustees who are officials or employees of public agencies has 
oversight responsibility for CAMP. The value of the pool shares in CAMP, which may be withdrawn at any time, 
is determined on an amortized cost basis, which is different from the fair value of the City’s position in the pool. 
At June 30, 2024 the amortized cost approximated is the City’s cost. 
 
G. Investment in San Mateo County Investment Pool 
 
As of June 30, 2024, the City had $52,873,850 invested in the San Mateo County Investment Fund (County Pool) 
that is regulated by Code Section 16429 under the oversight of the Treasurer of the County. The City reports its 
investment in the County Pool at the fair value amount provided by the County. Included in the County Pool’s 
investment portfolio are US Treasury Notes, Obligations issued by agencies of the United States Government, 
LAIF, Corporate Notes, Commercial Paper, collateralized mortgage obligations, mortgage-backed securities, other 
asset-backed securities, and floating rate securities issued by federal agencies, government-sponsored enterprises, 
and corporations. The fair value factor of 0.9913 was used to calculate the fair value of the investments in the 
County Pool. At June 30, 2024, the total amount invested by all public agencies in the County Pool was 
approximately $8.4 billion. 
 
191 of 356

--- page 192 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
83 
Note 3 – Loans and Notes Receivable 
 
At June 30, 2024, loans and notes receivable consisted of the following:  
 
Loans and 
Loans and Notes
Allowance for 
Notes Receivable,
Unavailable
Receivable
Doubtful Accounts
Net
Revenue
Governmental Activities:
First-time Homebuyer Loans
11,433,130
$          
(11,407,808)
$         
25,322
$                 
-
$                           
Home Rehabilitation Loans
529,907
                 
-
                             
529,907
                 
117,300
                 
106 N. El Dorado
450,000
                 
(450,000)
                
-
                             
-
                             
Darcy Building
1,346,991
              
(1,164,564)
             
182,427
                 
635
                        
Edgewater Isle Senior Apartments
5,098,866
              
(5,098,866)
             
-
                             
-
                             
Belmont Building
800,000
                 
(800,000)
                
-
                             
-
                             
St. Matthew Hotel
2,827,395
              
(2,827,395)
             
-
                             
-
                             
Rotary Hacienda & Rotary Floritas
5,154,873
              
(4,525,673)
             
629,200
                 
-
                             
First Step for Families (Turning Point)
751,033
                 
(751,033)
                
-
                             
-
                             
12 N. Idaho Street
100,000
                 
(100,000)
                
-
                             
-
                             
200 S. Delaware Street
2,154,555
              
(2,154,555)
             
-
                             
-
                             
232 S. Humboldt Street
557,500
                 
(557,500)
                
-
                             
-
                             
11 S. Delaware Street
1,279,921
              
(1,279,921)
             
-
                             
-
                             
El Camino Family Housing
3,925,652
              
(3,925,652)
             
-
                             
-
                             
MP San Mateo Transit Associates
8,572,781
              
(8,572,781)
             
-
                             
-
                             
MP Delaware Pacific Associates LP
1,240,518
              
(1,240,518)
             
-
                             
-
                             
MP Foster Square
385,883
                 
(385,883)
                
-
                             
-
                             
Gateway Commons Assessment Loan
281,977
                 
-
                             
281,977
                 
24,805
                   
Cal Home Loans
373,357
                 
-
                             
373,357
                 
55,757
                   
HIP Housing - 1100 Cypress Avenue
1,252,200
              
(1,252,200)
             
-
                             
-
                             
Bay Meadows Affordable Association
1,871,294
              
-
                             
1,871,294
              
155,128
                 
Child Care Facility Project Loans
770,789
                 
(770,789)
                
-
                             
-
                             
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates LP
5,857,500
              
(5,857,500)
             
-
                             
-
                             
Total Governmental Activities
57,016,122
$          
(53,122,638)
$         
3,893,484
$            
353,625
$               
Business-Type Activities:
Town of Hillborough
38,999,057
$          
-
$                           
38,999,057
$          
Total Business-Type Activities
38,999,057
$          
-
$                           
38,999,057
$          
 
 
First-Time Homebuyer Loans 
 
The City has had provided various loan programs for first time homebuyers since 1989. In general, they provide 
secondary financing for low and moderate income buyers in the City that have deferred payments in order to allow the 
buyer to maximize their purchasing capacity. The City, acting as the successor agency of the former redevelopment 
agency, engages in programs designed to encourage construction or improvement in low-to-moderate income housing 
or other projects. Under these programs, loans are provided under favorable terms to homeowners or developers who 
agree to spend these funds in accordance with the City’s terms. The amounts for potential loan forgiveness represent 
the best estimate of the amount of loans receivable that may not be collectible from borrowers. It does not necessarily 
reflect subsequent actual payments, which could differ from expectations. 
 
The various loan terms are described below: 
 
Gateway Commons Original Buyers – Second loans accrue interest that compounds annually. Interest accrues for 
20 years. Starting in year 21, 10% of principal and accrued interest is forgiven until the loan is fully forgiven in 
year 30. Payment of principal and interest is paid upon sale of property. Units are sold at market value, and at that 
time, the City also receives as payment a share of the appreciation based on the percentage of the City loan to 
original purchase price.
192 of 356

--- page 193 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
84 
Note 3 – Loans and Notes Receivable (Continued) 
 
First-Time Homebuyer Loans (Continued) 
 
First Time Buyer Resale Program – Subsequent buyers at Gateway Commons and other first time buyer complexes 
have different loan terms: Prior to 2007, second loans up to $60,000 accrue interest that is compounded annually. 
The resale price is restricted by applying the percentage increase in median income from the time of the purchase 
date to the sale date, to the initial sales price. The principal is repaid, but payment of the accrued interest is waived. 
The City has the first right to purchase to roll unit to a new eligible buyer at the restricted sales price. If the City 
does not exercise the option to purchase, the unit can be sold at fair market value to a non-eligible buyer. In this 
case, the principal, interest, and appreciation share payment is paid to the City. After 2007, the second loans were 
restructured to eliminate the interest rate and appreciation share in the event the unit is sold to non-eligible buyer. 
Instead, “contingent interest” is paid to the City, which is determined by the difference between the restricted price 
and the actual sales price (market value). 
 
Neighborhood Purchase Program – A second loan of up to 20% of the purchase price, or maximum of $60,000, 
accrues simple interest of 3% per year. This is an amortized loan, where monthly payments are deferred for five 
years and then repaid over 25 years. This program is no longer active. There are no resale price restrictions. 
 
Countywide Home Investment Partnership (CHIP) Program – This program provides a second loan of up to 20% 
of the purchase price, or maximum of $60,000. No interest and no payments are due for 10 years. Then payments 
are amortized at 4% for 25 years. Upon sale of the property or refinance, an appreciation share payment is due to 
the City. 
 
Meadow Court Program – This program provides first-time homebuyers down payment assistance for the purchase 
of units at Meadow Court. The loans are secured by a second deed of trust with a term of 40 years and interest 
compounding annually. At year 31, provided that the property has not been sold or transferred, 10% of principal 
and interest will be forgiven each year until year 40, at which time the entire note is forgiven. 
 
Home Rehabilitation Loans 
 
The City has administered various housing rehabilitation loan programs using Community Development Block Grant 
funds, former Redevelopment Agency Housing Set-Aside funds, and City Housing funds. Under these Programs, 
individuals with incomes below a certain level are eligible to receive low interest, variable term loans, secured by deeds 
of trust for rehabilitation work on their homes. The maximum loan limit is $85,000 for standard properties and $100,000 
for historic properties. The loan repayments may be amortized over the life of the loans, deferred, or a combination of 
both. 
 
106 N. El Dorado 
 
The City loaned $450,000 to Housing Association for the Needy and Dispossessed, Inc. (HAND), a nonprofit 
organization, to acquire and rehabilitate six apartment units at 106 N. Eldorado for low-income housing. The loan bears 
no interest and is due in 40 years. If the property has not been sold or transferred, beginning in 2027, ten percent of the 
principal will be forgiven annually until 2036, at which time the entire loan principal will be forgiven. 
 
Darcy Building 
 
On June 30, 2000, the City and the former Redevelopment Agency made four loans, the proceeds of which were used 
to conduct substantial rehabilitation and residential conversion of the Darcy Building for low income households. The 
loans carry interest at rates that vary from 0% to 5% with a term of 30 years. If the property remains in the developer’s 
hands, two of the loans allow partial forgiveness beginning is year 30, with full forgiveness in year 40. 
193 of 356

--- page 194 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
85 
Note 3 – Loans and Notes Receivable (Continued) 
 
Edgewater Isle Senior Apartments 
 
On June 30, 2000, the City and the former Redevelopment Agency made a loan to the Human Investment Project 
(“HIP”) for the purchase and minor rehabilitation of 92 low and moderate income senior rental units at Edgewater Isle. 
Payments of principal and 3% interest are deferred until 2048 or the sale or transfer of the property, whichever comes 
first. 
 
Belmont Building 
 
On June 30, 2000, the City and the former Redevelopment Agency made two loans, the proceeds of which were used 
to convert the Belmont building into six one-bedroom units for very low income families. The loans bear no interest 
and are for a term of 40 years. If the property remains in the developer’s hands, beginning in year 2023, ten percent of 
the principal will be forgiven annually until year 2032, at which time the entire loan principal will have been forgiven. 
 
St. Matthew Hotel 
 
On June 30, 2000, the City and the former Redevelopment Agency made a loan to a developer, who used these funds 
to rehabilitate this hotel into a single room occupancy development for very low-income households. Interest is at 0% 
to 3%; principal and interest are due in 2036. Annual payments on the 3% loan are based on available cash flow, if any. 
 
Rotary Hacienda 
 
In 1988, the former Redevelopment Agency entered into a Development and Disposition Agreement (“DDA”) with 
Rotary Hacienda Inc. for the construction and operation of an 82-unit senior rental housing project. The Agreement 
includes a promissory note in the amount of $968,383, which bears simple interest at a rate of 8.75% compounded 
annually, and is due on December 30, 2028. In 2004, the loan was recast for $968,000 with 0% interest, a 40-year term 
and no prepayment penalty. 
 
Rotary Floritas 
 
The former Redevelopment Agency provided $3,000,000 for the construction of 50 senior rental units at Rotary Floritas 
on March 24, 2006. The interest rate is 3% for 55 years. Annual payments of principal and interest are based on the 
“available cash flow” from the borrower’s preceding fiscal year.  
 
First Step for Families (Turning Point) 
 
On June 26, 1988, the City provided zero interest deferred loans of $69,262 in City CDBG funds and $305,000 in 
former Redevelopment Agency funds to Mid-Peninsula Coalition Belle Haven, Inc. (MPCBH), for the acquisition and 
development of an emergency housing shelter called Turning Point. In 2002, MPCBH redeveloped the site into a new 
facility consisting of both emergency beds and transitional housing units to assist 39 families. The original loans plus 
interest were recast effective on April 1, 2002, in the amounts of $95,320 and $419,566 respectively. The loans bear 
3% interest; principal and accrued interest are due in 30 years. At the same time, the City provided an additional 
$500,000 ($143,500 CDBG and $356,500 HOME) for the new project. These loans bear 3% interest, and annual 
payments are based on “available cash flow”. As long as the facility is operated as emergency and transitional housing, 
1/30 of the principal and accrued interest annually until it fully forgiven in 30 years. 
194 of 356

--- page 195 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
86 
Note 3 – Loans and Notes Receivable (Continued) 
 
12 N. Idaho Street 
 
In 1994, HAND, Inc., a non-profit organization, received loans of $100,000 from the former Redevelopment Agency 
and $10,436 from the City to assist in the purchase of a six-unit apartment building located at 12 N. Idaho Street to be 
used as an affordable housing complex. The Agency loan carries an interest rate of 10% and is for a period of 40 years. 
The City loan carries no interest and is for a period of 15 years. Principal payments on both loans are deferred until the 
earlier of sale or transfer of the property or the maturity date. 
 
200 S. Delaware Street 
 
On October 6, 1999, the City and the former Redevelopment Agency loaned $1,266,000 to HAND to acquire and 
rehabilitate sixteen units at 200 S. Delaware Street for low-income housing. The loan bears an interest rate of 3%. 
Principal and interest are due in 2049. HAND has an option of renewing the loan agreement for another fifty years. 
 
232 S. Humboldt Street 
 
On February 9, 2001, the City and the former Redevelopment Agency loaned $500,000 to Mateo Lodge, Inc., to 
rehabilitate nine units at 232 S. Humboldt Street for low-income housing. The loan bears an interest rate of 3%. Principal 
and interest are due in 2021. Mateo Lodge, Inc. has an option of renewing the loan agreement for another twenty years. 
 
11 S. Delaware Street 
 
On June 17, 2002, the City loaned $660,000 to HAND to acquire and rehabilitate eleven units at 11 S. Delaware Street 
for affordable housing. The loan bears an interest rate of 3%. Principal and interest are due in 2032. However, HAND 
has an option of renewing the loan agreement for another thirty years. 
 
El Camino Family Housing 
 
In December 2002, El Camino Family Housing, L.P., received a loan of $3,386,000 from the former Redevelopment 
Agency to develop the Santa Inez Apartments at an interest rate of 3% and for a period of 40 years. Annual payments 
of principal and interest in the amount of $140,688 are based on the “available cash flow” from the borrower’s preceding 
fiscal year. On January 19, 2018, the project was refinanced in order to allow one of the general partners to purchase 
the property as Santa Inez Apartments, LP. Upon closing, a portion of the accrued interest was paid to the City. The 
promissory note was amended to revise the principal amount to $4,000,000 (original principal plus remaining accrued 
interest). The other original terms remained the same for another 25 years. 
 
MP San Mateo Transit Associates 
 
In November 2006, the City and the former Redevelopment Agency entered into a loan agreement with the Mid-
Peninsula Housing Coalition. The agreement includes three promissory notes in the amounts of $1,230,000 (City funds), 
$1,200,000 (Agency funds), and $2,870,000 (Agency funds), which bear 3% interest. The payment of principal and 
interest is due on the maturity date or the sale or transfer of the property except for a sale or transfer to an affiliate 
nonprofit public benefit corporation or to a limited partnership in which an affiliate is the general partner. The maturity 
date shall occur fifty-five (55) years from the date of the receipt of the final certificate of occupancy. Beginning with 
borrower’s first fiscal year following the first year after receipt of the certificate of occupancy, borrower shall make 
annual payments of principal and interest to the City only from “Available Cash Flow” which is defined from borrower’s 
preceding fiscal year. In October 2009, the City received Infill Infrastructure Grant funds from the State of California 
in the amount of $3,854,240, which was passed on to the Mid-Peninsula Housing Coalition in the form of a deferred 
zero interest loan which is due at maturity, which is 55 years from receipt of the final certificate of occupancy. 
195 of 356

--- page 196 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
87 
Note 3 – Loans and Notes Receivable (Continued) 
 
MP Delaware Pacific Associates L.P. 
 
In April 2012, the City and the Successor Agency entered into a loan agreement with the Mid-Peninsula Delaware 
Pacific Associates, LP. The agreement includes two promissory notes in the amounts of $880,000 (HOME Grant funds) 
and $320,000 (Successor Agency Funds), which bear 3% interest. Beginning with borrower’s first fiscal year following 
the first year after receipt of the certificate of occupancy, borrower shall make annual payments of principal and interest 
to the City only from “Available Cash Flow”, which is defined from borrower’s preceding fiscal year. The payment of 
remaining principal and interest is due on the maturity date or the sale or transfer of the property except for a sale or 
transfer to an affiliate nonprofit public benefit corporation or to a limited partnership in which an affiliate is the general 
partner. The maturity date shall occur fifty-five (55) years from the date of the receipt of the final certificate of 
occupancy. 
 
MP Foster Square 
 
In July 2014, the City entered into a loan agreement with Mid-Peninsula Foster Square Associates, LP. The agreement 
includes one promissory note in the amount of $420,000 (HOME Grant funds), which bears 3% interest. Beginning 
with borrower’s first fiscal year following the first year after receipt of the certificate of occupancy, borrower shall 
make annual payments of principal and interest to the City only from “Residual Receipts”, which is defined from the 
project’s preceding fiscal year. The payment of remaining principal and interest is due on the maturity date or the sale 
or transfer of the property. The maturity date shall occur fifty-five (55) years from the date of the receipt of the final 
certificate of occupancy. 
 
Gateway Commons Assessment Loan 
 
In February 2011, the City and the former Redevelopment Agency entered into a loan agreement with the Gateway 
Commons Owners Association to assist the owner with paying for a special assessment for needed repairs at the 
complex. This agreement provides eligible owners of the affordable units loans in the range of $10,000 to $30,000 as 
one-time lump sum special assessment to Gateway Commons. The original term of the loan is 15 years with an interest 
rate varying between 0% and 3%. The loan repayment are amortized, deferred, or a combination of both. 
 
Cal Home Loans 
 
In June 2009, the City entered into a program agreement with the California Department of Housing and Community 
Development to receive $750,000 in grant funds from the CalHOME program for its Owner Occupancy Rehabilitation 
Program. These funds are used for home repair loans up to $60,000 for low and moderate income households at 3% 
interest, with payments deferred for 30 years. Loan repayments will go into a revolving loan fund to be used for future 
housing loans for owner occupied units.  
 
HIP Housing Development - 1110 Cypress Avenue 
 
In May 2016, the City entered into two loan agreements with HIP Housing Development Corporation in the amounts 
of $590,000 and $510,000 to be used for the acquisition of 1110 Cypress Avenue in the City of San Mateo, a 16-unit 
apartment complex, for the purpose of providing affordable housing to low and moderate income households. 
Commencing on the first day of the month following the first anniversary of the notes, the borrower shall make annual 
payments of principal and interest to the City only from “Residual Receipts”, the amount by which gross revenue 
exceeds annual operating expenses from the project’s preceding fiscal year. The payment of remaining principal and 
interest is due on the maturity date or the sale or transfer of the property. The loans bear simple interest of 3% per 
annum, and mature fifty-five (55) years from the date of the notes. 
196 of 356

--- page 197 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
88 
Note 3 – Loans and Notes Receivable (Continued) 
 
Bay Meadows Affordable Housing 
 
In December 2018, the City lent $2,000,000 to Bay Meadows Affordable Associates, LP for the construction of 68 
family rental units. The interest rate is 3%. Annual payments are due beginning with the first fiscal year after 
construction completion based on the City’s share of “Residual Receipts” which is defined from the project’s preceding 
fiscal year. The payment of remaining principal and interest is due in full 55 years after construction completion. 
 
Child Care Facility Project Loans 
 
On October 15, 2018, the City Council approved Resolution 2018-107, establishing the Interim Child Care Fund 
Guidelines and authorized staff to release a Notice of Funding Available (NOFA). The NOFA was intended to invite a 
wide breadth of proposals that result in increasing the number of childcare spaces in the City of San Mateo with the 
earliest possible completion. The NOFA was released on January 7, 2019 with a deadline date of February 21, 2019. 
The City held an informational meeting for potential applicants on January 21, 2019 to review the NOFA document 
and requirements and respond to questions from attendees. As this was the first time in providing this NOFA, the loan 
documents were developed after the submittal of applications, as it was entirely unknown as to what types of projects 
would apply for funds and the potential structure of the funding. Each project offered differing levels of available 
leveraged funding, from zero to over 50% of the total development costs.  
 
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P. 
 
In December 2021, the City entered into three loan agreements with MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., to be 
used for the development of Kiku Crossing, a new 225 unit affordable housing project. The agreements include three 
promissory notes in the amount of $650,000 (HOME Grant funds), $2,000,000 (Commercial Linkage Fee funds), and 
$2,850,000 (Low Mod Income Housing Asset Funds), which bear 3% interest. Beginning with borrower’s first fiscal 
year following the first year after receipt of the certificate of occupancy, borrower shall make annual payments of 
principal and interest to the City only from “Residual Receipts”, which is defined from the project’s preceding fiscal 
year. The payment of remaining principal and interest is due on the maturity date or the sale or transfer of the property. 
The maturity date shall occur fifty-seven (57) years from the date of recordation of the leasehold deed of trust. 
 
Town of Hillsborough 
 
In June 2022, the City entered into a capital cost repayment agreement with the Town of Hillsborough (the “Town”) 
for the payment of the Town’s percentage of project costs for clean water projects. The City begun construction on a 
comprehensive suite of capital improvements referred to as the “Clean Water Program,” including capital improvements 
to the sewage treatment plant. The costs of the sewage treatment plant are allocated based on predetermined factors. 
The capital cost repayment agreement carries and interest rate of 1.91% with a term of 30 years. Payments will be in 
addition to the periodic charges for wastewater treatment services. As of June 30 2024, the balance of the capital cost 
repayment agreement was $38,999,057. 
 
 
Note 4 – Lease Receivable  
 
The portion of the City’s property is leased to others. Such property includes special purpose facilities, office and 
commercial space, and land. Lease receivable consists of agreements with other for the right-to-use of the underlying 
assets at various locations owned by the City. The terms of the arrangements range from 5 to 27 years. The calculated 
interest rates used vary depending on the length of the lease. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, the City recognized 
$647,110 in lease revenue and $330,229 in interest revenue.  
197 of 356

--- page 198 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
89 
Note 4 – Lease Receivable (Continued) 
 
A summary of changes in lease receivable for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 is as follows:  
 
Balance
Balance
Due within
Due in More
July 1, 2023
Additions
Deletions
June 30, 2024
One Year
Than One Year
Leases receivable
10,127,777
$     
358,785
$          
(453,988)
$        
10,032,574
$     
485,582
$          
9,546,992
$       
Classification
 
 
As of June 30, 2024, the required payments for these leases, including interest, are: 
 
Year Ending
June 30,
Principal
Interest
Total
2025
485,582
$          
295,952
$          
781,534
$          
2026
461,841
            
281,063
            
742,904
            
2027
329,837
            
269,268
            
599,105
            
2028
348,615
            
259,177
            
607,792
            
2029
391,984
            
247,812
            
639,796
            
2030-2034
2,256,557
         
1,044,739
         
3,301,296
         
2035-2039
1,708,397
         
740,285
            
2,448,682
         
2040-2044
2,144,148
         
456,246
            
2,600,394
         
2045-2048
1,905,613
         
109,108
            
2,014,721
         
Total
10,032,574
$     
3,703,650
$       
13,736,224
$     
 
 
As of June 30, 2024, the amounts reported as deferred inflows of resources will be recognized as lease revenue as 
follows: 
 
Year Ending
Amortization
June 30,
Schedule
2025
659,070
$          
2026
617,964
            
2027
481,758
            
2028
472,552
            
2029
472,552
            
2030-2034
2,338,839
         
2035-2039
1,550,238
         
2040-2044
1,516,916
         
2045-2048
1,112,405
         
Total
9,222,294
$       
 
 
 
198 of 356

--- page 199 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
90 
Note 5 – Interfund Transfers 
 
Interfund transfers during the year ended June 30, 2024, consisted of the following: 
 
Transfers In
Transfers Out
Amount
Purpose
General Projects Capital Projects Fund
General Fund
16,581,401
$    
Capital projects
General Projects Capital Projects Fund
Construction Services Special Revenue Fund
300,397
           
Capital projects
General Projects Capital Projects Fund
Gas Tax Special Revenue Fund
710,758
           
Capital projects
General Projects Capital Projects Fund
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Fund
97,749
             
Capital projects
General Projects Capital Projects Fund
Solid Waste Special Revenue Fund
437,480
           
Capital projects
General Projects Capital Projects Fund
Traffic Impact Fee Special Revenue Fund
1,046,931
        
Capital projects
General Projects Capital Projects Fund
Parks and Recreation Special Revenue Fund
1,032,914
        
Capital projects
General Projects Capital Projects Fund
Landfill Bond Debt Service Fund
35,947
             
Capital projects
General Projects Capital Projects Fund
Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Internal Service Fund
913,548
           
Capital projects
Subtotal
21,157,125
      
General Fund
Construction Services Special Revenue Fund
5,499,933
        
Other purposes
General Fund
Gas Tax Special Revenue Fund
1,747,500
        
Other purposes
Subtotal
7,247,433
        
Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Internal Service Fund
General Fund
410,000
           
Cost allocation
Comprehensive Liability Insurance Internal Service Fund
General Fund
1,000,000
        
Cost allocation
General Obligation Bond Debt Service Fund
General Fund
2,691,887
        
Debt service
Total
32,506,445
$    
 
 
 
Note 6 – Capital Assets 
 
A. Governmental Activities 
 
The summary of changes in governmental activities capital assets for the year ended June 30, 2024, is as follows:  
 
Balance
Balance
July 1, 2023
Additions
Deletions
Transfers
June 30, 2024
Capital assets, not being depreciated
Land
52,064,002
$      
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
52,064,002
$      
Construction in progress
25,161,460
        
26,755,899
        
(511,334)
            
(20,993,884)
       
30,412,141
        
Total capital assets, not being depreciated
77,225,462
        
26,755,899
        
(511,334)
            
(20,993,884)
       
82,476,143
        
Capital assets, being depreciated/amortized
Building and improvements
192,797,505
      
27,765
               
-
                         
1,793,966
          
194,619,236
      
Machinery and equipment
35,497,334
        
2,456,294
          
(1,131,682)
         
-
                         
36,821,946
        
Infrastructure
593,431,484
      
-
                         
-
                         
19,199,918
        
612,631,402
      
Leased assets - buildings and improvements
2,174,617
          
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
2,174,617
          
Subscription assets
5,788,427
          
1,077,582
          
-
                         
-
                         
6,866,009
          
Total capital assets, being depreciated/amortized
829,689,367
      
3,561,641
          
(1,131,682)
         
20,993,884
        
853,113,210
      
Accumulated depreciation/amortization:
Building and improvements
(80,765,528)
       
(5,262,168)
         
-
                         
-
                         
(86,027,696)
       
Machinery and equipment
(26,885,002)
       
(1,746,523)
         
1,033,036
          
-
                         
(27,598,489)
       
Infrastructure
(321,576,337)
     
(14,315,189)
       
-
                         
-
                         
(335,891,526)
     
Leased asset - buildings and improvements
(1,178,668)
         
(589,334)
            
-
                         
-
                         
(1,768,002)
         
Subscription assets
(768,547)
            
(1,000,824)
         
-
                         
-
                         
(1,769,371)
         
Total accumulated depreciation/amortization
(431,174,082)
     
(22,914,038)
       
1,033,036
          
-
                         
(453,055,084)
     
Total capital assets, being depreciated/amortized, net
398,515,285
      
(19,352,397)
       
(98,646)
              
20,993,884
        
400,058,126
      
Total capital assets, net
475,740,747
$    
7,403,502
$        
(609,980)
$          
-
$                       
482,534,269
$    
199 of 356

--- page 200 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
91 
Note 6 – Capital Assets (Continued) 
 
A. Governmental Activities (Continued) 
 
Depreciation and amortization expense were charged to the functions/programs of the governmental activities as 
follows: 
 
General government
890,796
$                     
Community development
260,592
                       
Public safety
1,723,432
                    
Public works
14,280,867
                  
Parks and recreation
2,880,803
                    
Library
1,606,497
                    
Internal service funds
1,271,051
                    
Total depreciation/amortization expenses
22,914,038
$                
 
 
B. Business-Type Activities 
 
The summary of changes in business-type activities capital assets for the year ended June 30, 2024, is as follows:  
 
Balance
Balance
July 1, 2023
Additions
Deletions
Transfers
June 30, 2024
Capital assets, not being depreciated
Land
4,052,298
$        
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
4,052,298
$        
Construction in progress
530,698,148
      
90,274,678
        
-
                         
(11,307,285)
       
609,665,541
      
Total capital assets, not being depreciated
534,750,446
      
90,274,678
        
-
                         
(11,307,285)
       
613,717,839
      
Capital assets, being depreciated/amortized
Sewer treatment plant
and transmission lines
279,270,582
      
-
                         
-
                         
11,307,285
        
290,577,867
      
Machinery and equipment
2,325,728
          
199,373
             
-
                         
-
                         
2,525,101
          
Leased assets - machinery and equipment
110,037
             
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
110,037
             
Total capital assets, being depreciated/amortized
281,706,347
      
199,373
             
-
                         
11,307,285
        
293,213,005
      
Accumulated depreciation/amortization:
Sewer treatment plant
and transmission lines
(115,793,403)
     
(5,460,029)
         
-
                         
-
                         
(121,253,432)
     
Machinery and equipment
(1,223,400)
         
(138,706)
            
-
                         
-
                         
(1,362,106)
         
Leased assets - machinery and equipment
(34,540)
              
(36,679)
              
-
                         
-
                         
(71,219)
              
Total accumulated depreciation/amortization
(117,051,343)
     
(5,635,414)
         
-
                         
-
                         
(122,686,757)
     
Total capital assets, being depreciated/amortized, net
164,655,004
      
(5,436,041)
         
-
                         
11,307,285
        
170,526,248
      
Total capital assets, net
699,405,450
$    
84,838,637
$      
-
$                       
-
$                       
784,244,087
$    
 
 
Depreciation and amortization expense was charged to the Sewer Fund in the amount of $5,635,414. 
 
200 of 356

--- page 201 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
92 
Note 7 – Long-Term Liabilities  
 
A. Summary 
 
Annual 
Original 
Final
Interest 
Principal 
Issue
Outstanding at 
Maturity 
Rate
Installments
Amounts
June 30, 2024
Governmental Activities
Direct Borrowing:
CEC Streetlight Loan
2030
1.00%
$254,364 - $260,544
3,000,000
$     
1,524,968
$     
PG&E - Energy Efficiency Retrofit Loans
2031
0.00%
$351,219
3,356,274
       
2,163,827
       
Advance liability
2047
3.00%
$335,000 - $2,530,000
45,765,000
     
41,430,000
     
Lease liability
2025
3.00%
$442,060 - $611,348
2,169,194
       
442,060
          
Subscription liability
2033
1.71% - 3.14%
$309,519 - $947,110
4,291,977
       
3,650,644
       
Public Borrowing:
General Obligation Bonds, Series 2013
(Library Improvement Project)
2031
3.00% - 4.00%
$1,520,000 - $2,070,000
27,295,000
     
13,030,000
     
Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2007A
(Public Safety Project)
2039
Variable rate
$480,000 - $1,195,000
17,400,000
     
12,625,000
     
Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2018A
(Golf Course Project)
2030
2.25% - 5.00%
$495,000 - $665,000
6,050,000
       
3,680,000
       
Total Governmental Activities 
109,327,445
$ 
78,546,499
$   
Business-Type Activities
Direct Borrowing:
Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act 
(WIFIA) Loan
2056
1.31%
$2,000,000 - $17,407,595
295,479,360
$ 
295,479,360
$ 
Lease Liability
2025
0.46%
$37,796 - $37,968
110,037
          
37,968
            
Public Borrowing:
Sewer Revenue Bonds, Series 2014
2045
3.00% - 5.00%
$670,000 - $2,665,000
32,255,000
     
25,680,000
     
Wastewater Revenue Bonds, Series 2019
2050
4.00% - 5.00%
$2,520,000 - $16,020,000
236,180,000
   
236,180,000
   
Wastewater Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2021A
2042
2.00% - 5.00%
$530,000 - $935,000
14,265,000
     
13,070,000
     
Total Business-Type Activities 
578,289,397
$ 
570,447,328
$ 
Fidiciary Funds
Public Borrowing:
Tax Allocation Refunding Bonds, Series 2015A 
2033
4.00% - 5.00%
$530,000 - $4,150,000
31,210,000
$   
29,415,000
$   
Tax Allocation Refunding Bonds, Series 2017A 
2026
2.00% - 5.00%
$2,425,000 - $3,100,000
21,440,000
     
6,045,000
       
Total Successor Agency
52,650,000
$   
35,460,000
$   
 
201 of 356

--- page 202 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
93 
Note 7 – Long-Term Liabilities (Continued) 
 
B. Governmental Activities 
 
A summary of changes in the long-term liabilities for the year ended June 30, 2024, is as follows: 
 
Balance
Debt
Debt
Balance
Due within
Due in More
July 1, 2023
Issued
Retired
June 30, 2024
One Year
Than One Year
Bonds payable:
General Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2013
14,620,000
$   
-
$                    
(1,590,000)
$    
13,030,000
$   
1,660,000
$     
11,370,000
$   
  plus: unamortized bond premium
1,112,859
       
-
                      
(157,109)
         
955,750
          
-
                      
955,750
          
Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2007A
13,135,000
     
-
                      
(510,000)
         
12,625,000
     
545,000
          
12,080,000
     
Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2018A
4,200,000
       
-
                      
(520,000)
         
3,680,000
       
550,000
          
3,130,000
       
  plus: unamortized bond premium
286,442
          
-
                      
(47,087)
           
239,355
          
-
                      
239,355
          
Total bonds payable
33,354,301
     
-
                      
(2,824,196)
      
30,530,105
     
2,755,000
       
27,775,105
     
Advance payable to other government
Advance payable to other government
42,660,000
     
-
                      
(1,230,000)
      
41,430,000
     
1,285,000
       
40,145,000
     
  plus: unamortized advance premium
7,113,351
       
-
                      
(286,444)
         
6,826,907
       
-
                      
6,826,907
       
Total advance payable to other government
49,773,351
     
-
                      
(1,516,444)
      
48,256,907
     
1,285,000
       
46,971,907
     
Loans payable:
CEC Streetlight Loan
1,770,332
       
-
                      
(245,364)
         
1,524,968
       
247,869
          
1,277,099
       
PG&E - Energy Efficiency Retrofit Loans
2,515,046
       
-
                      
(351,219)
         
2,163,827
       
351,219
          
1,812,608
       
Total loans payable
4,285,378
       
-
                      
(596,583)
         
3,688,795
       
599,088
          
3,089,707
       
Lease liability
1,053,407
       
-
                      
(611,347)
         
442,060
          
442,060
          
-
                      
Subscription liability
3,472,655
       
1,076,231
       
(898,242)
         
3,650,644
       
791,859
          
2,858,785
       
Total
91,939,092
$   
1,076,231
$     
(6,446,812)
$    
86,568,511
$   
5,873,007
$     
80,695,504
$   
Classification
 
 
General Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2013  
 
On March 21, 2013, the City issued $27,295,000 principal amount General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Library 
Improvement Project), Series 2013 (2013 Refunding Bonds). The proceeds of the 2013 Refunding Bonds were used 
to refund the 2000 and 2004A General Obligation Bonds. The 2000 and 2004A General Obligation Bonds were 
used to finance the construction, acquisition and improvement of a new main library and the improvement of the 
City’s branch libraries. The General Obligation Refunding Bonds mature annually each August 1 through 2030, 
with installments ranging from $1,520,000 to $2,070,000. The interest on the Bonds is payable semi-annually on 
each February 1 and August 1, with coupons ranging from 3.0% to 4.0%.  
 
The 2013 Refunding Bonds are secured by voter-approved, ad valorem property taxes. Annual principal and interest 
payments on the bonds are expected to require 100% percent of net revenues. Total principal and interest remaining 
to be paid on the 2013 Refunding Bonds is $14,566,575. For the current year, principal and interest paid on the 
2013 Refunding Bonds was $2,049,050 and ad valorem property tax net revenues were $2,724,717. 
 
The annual debt service requirements on the 2013 General Obligation Refunding Bonds are as follows: 
 
Year Ending
June 30,
Principal
Interest
Total
2025
1,660,000
$     
402,350
$       
2,062,350
$        
2026
1,720,000
       
351,650
         
2,071,650
          
2027
1,775,000
       
290,350
         
2,065,350
          
2028
1,860,000
       
217,650
         
2,077,650
          
2029
1,940,000
       
151,350
         
2,091,350
          
2030-2031
4,075,000
       
123,225
         
4,198,225
          
Total
13,030,000
$   
1,536,575
$    
14,566,575
$      
202 of 356

--- page 203 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
94 
Note 7 – Long-Term Liabilities (Continued) 
 
B. Governmental Activities (Continued) 
 
Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2007A 
 
On April 19, 2007, the City of San Mateo Joint Powers Financing Authority issued $17,400,000 principal amount 
Variable Rate Demand Lease Revenue Bonds (Public Safety Project), Series 2007A (2007A Variable Rate Bonds). 
The proceeds of the 2007A Variable Rate Bonds contributed to the construction of a new police administration 
facility with a total project cost of $58,500,000. Other sources of funding for this project included transient 
occupancy tax (hotel tax), redevelopment agency funds, sale of the existing police facility site, and General Fund 
contributions. The 2007A Variable Rate Bonds mature through April 1, 2039 with installments ranging from 
$480,000 to $1,195,000. The interest on the Bonds is payable monthly from the lease revenue to the Authority from 
the City. The interest rate on the Bonds is based on the weekly variable rate set by the remarketing agent, which 
can be no greater than 12% per annum. Weekly rates during the fiscal year varied from 0.58% to 3.70%, for an 
average weekly interest rate for the fiscal year of 2.05%. In addition, the letter of credit is with Wells Fargo and has 
an annual fee of 0.45%. The City also pays letter of credit (LOC) bank fees and remarketing agent fees on a quarterly 
basis. The remarketing agent is Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. and the annual remarketing fee has been 0.09% since 2007. 
 
The City has elected to use the 2% transient occupancy tax (hotel tax) authorized by Measure C, backed by a 
General Fund lease, to pay the annual principal and interest payments on the bonds. For the current year, principal, 
interest and other debt expenses paid were $836,307, while 2% transient occupancy tax revenues (TOT) were 
$887,679, resulting in a net gain of $51,372. This fund typically generated annual debt service coverage of 2:1, and 
the accumulated surplus of hotel tax revenues not needed for debt service serve as a built-in hedge against interest 
rate volatility. Variable rate debt requires that the City constantly monitors risk versus return and consider whether 
to retain this debt structure. Total principal and interest remaining to be paid on the 2007A Lease Revenue Bonds 
is $12,625,000. 
 
The annual principal requirements on these bonds are as follows: 
 
Year Ending
June 30,
Principal
Interest*
Total
2025
545,000
$        
-
$                   
545,000
$           
2026
580,000
          
-
                     
580,000
             
2027
615,000
          
-
                     
615,000
             
2028
655,000
          
-
                     
655,000
             
2029
695,000
          
-
                     
695,000
             
2030-2034
4,130,000
       
-
                     
4,130,000
          
2035-2039
5,405,000
       
-
                     
5,405,000
          
Total
12,625,000
$   
-
$                   
12,625,000
$      
*Interest based on weekly variable rate, therefore, annual interest 
requirements indeterminable
 
 
 
 
 
 
203 of 356

--- page 204 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
95 
Note 7 – Long-Term Liabilities (Continued) 
 
B. Governmental Activities (Continued) 
 
Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2018A  
 
On May 1, 2018, the City of San Mateo Joint Powers Financing Authority issued $6,050,000 in Revenue Refunding 
Bonds Series 2018A (2018A Revenue Bonds) to refinance the City of San Mateo Joint Powers Financing Authority 
Revenue Bonds, Refunding Series 2007B, which were issued to refinance the City of San Mateo Joint Powers 
Financing Authority Revenue Bonds, Series 1999 (issued to finance the construction and renovation of an 18-hole 
municipal golf course and appurtenant facilities). The refunding resulted in $516,000 gross debt service (principal 
and interest) savings over 20 years, and an economic gain of $420,000. The refunding resulted in an accounting 
deferred loss on refunding of $151,432. The 2018A Revenue Bonds mature through August 1, 2029, with 
installments ranging from $495,000 to $665,000. The interest on the Bonds is payable semi-annually on each 
February 1 and August 1, and coupons range from 2.25% to 5% annually. The 2018A Revenue Bonds are payable 
solely from golf course facility lease revenue to the Authority. The 2018A Revenue Bonds are subject to early 
redemption provisions. 
 
Prior to fiscal year 2018-19, the City funded the lease payments to the Authority from golf charges for services 
from the enterprise Golf Fund. Beginning fiscal year 2018-19, in recognition of the annual subsidy of golf 
operations from the City’s General Fund, the City moved its enterprise Golf Fund to the General Fund as a sub-
fund. As such, lease payments to the Authority are funded by the City’s General Fund since 2018-19. Principal and 
interest paid for the current year and golf course facility gross revenues were $665,850 and $3,377,963, respectively. 
The total principal and interest remaining to be paid on the Bonds is $4,023,413. 
 
The annual debt service requirements on these bonds are as follows: 
 
Year Ending
June 30,
Principal
Interest
Total
2025
550,000
$        
119,100
$       
669,100
$           
2026
575,000
          
90,975
           
665,975
             
2027
605,000
          
61,475
           
666,475
             
2028
635,000
          
39,206
           
674,206
             
2029
650,000
          
24,344
           
674,344
             
2030
665,000
          
8,313
             
673,313
             
Total
3,680,000
$     
343,413
$       
4,023,413
$        
 
 
Advance Payable to Other Government 
 
On February 27, 2020, the JPFA issued the 2020 Series A and B Lease Revenue Bonds utilizing a Lease-leaseback 
agreement between the JPFA and the City. The lease agreement required the JPFA to pay upfront for the right to 
use of the buildings and leasehold improvements, owned by the City, over a period of time corresponding to the 
JPFA’s debt service requirement. The leaseback agreement required the City to make rental payments in amounts 
corresponding to the JPFA’s debt services requirements and related costs. Per the implementation of GASB 87 
Leases, the components of lease-leaseback agreements are to be netted in the financial statements, therefore the 
Authority will only record an advance receivable from other government for the amount to be paid back by the City 
for the upfront lease payment which reflects the present value of remaining future lease payments due to the JPFA. 
As of June 30, 2024, the City’s advance payable to other government balance was $41,430,000 with a remaining 
premium on advance balance of $6,826,907. Total principal and interest remaining to be paid on the advance from 
other government is $65,458,917. 
 
204 of 356

--- page 205 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
96 
Note 7 – Long-Term Liabilities (Continued) 
 
B. Governmental Activities (Continued) 
 
Advance Payable to Other Government (Continued) 
 
The annual debt service requirements on the advance payable to other government are as follows: 
 
Year Ending
June 30,
Principal
Interest
Total
2025
1,285,000
$     
1,734,124
$    
3,019,124
$        
2026
1,340,000
       
1,680,638
      
3,020,638
          
2027
1,395,000
       
1,624,313
      
3,019,313
          
2028
1,440,000
       
1,575,436
      
3,015,436
          
2029
1,490,000
       
1,524,568
      
3,014,568
          
2030-2034
6,780,000
       
6,759,988
      
13,539,988
        
2035-2039
8,140,000
       
5,013,850
      
13,153,850
        
2040-2044
10,010,000
     
3,142,400
      
13,152,400
        
2045-2048
9,550,000
       
973,600
         
10,523,600
        
Total
41,430,000
$   
24,028,917
$  
65,458,917
$      
 
 
CEC Streetlight Loan 
 
On January 14, 2015, the City entered into a loan agreement with the State of California Energy Conservation and 
Development Commission in the amount of $3,000,000 for the City-wide LED and High Voltage Conversion 
project. Loan funds are to be disbursed to the City on a reimbursement basis based on invoices submitted by the 
City for actual expenditures incurred for the project. 
 
Semiannual payments due to the Energy Commission under this agreement are expected to be made from savings 
in energy costs or other available funds. The Loan accrues interest at a rate of 1.00% per annum on the unpaid 
principal computed from the date of each disbursement to the City. 
 
The annual debt service requirements for the CEC Streetlight Loan were as follows: 
 
Year Ending
June 30,
Principal
Interest
Total
2025
247,869
$        
14,633
$         
262,502
$           
2026
250,354
          
12,148
           
262,502
             
2027
252,863
          
9,639
             
262,502
             
2028
255,381
          
7,121
             
262,502
             
2029
257,958
          
4,544
             
262,502
             
2030
260,543
          
1,957
             
262,500
             
Total
1,524,968
$     
50,042
$         
1,575,010
$        
 
 
205 of 356

--- page 206 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
97 
Note 7 – Long-Term Liabilities (Continued) 
 
B. Governmental Activities (Continued) 
 
PG&E – Energy Efficiency Retrofit Loans 
 
On February 24, 2020, the City modified the loan agreement with Pacific Gas and Electric Company in the amount 
of $3,356,274 for the Sustainable Solutions Turnkey project. Loan funds are to be disbursed to the City on a 
reimbursement basis based on invoices submitted by the City for actual expenditures incurred for the project. 
 
Monthly payments due under this agreement are expected to be made from savings in energy costs or other available 
funds. The loan does not accrue interest.  
 
The annual debt service requirements for the Energy Efficiency Retrofit Loans were as follows: 
 
Year Ending
June 30,
Principal
Interest
Total
2025
351,219
$        
-
$                   
351,219
$           
2026
351,219
          
-
                     
351,219
             
2027
351,219
          
-
                     
351,219
             
2028
351,219
          
-
                     
351,219
             
2029
351,219
          
-
                     
351,219
             
2030-2031
407,732
          
-
                     
407,732
             
Total
2,163,827
$     
-
$                   
2,163,827
$        
 
 
Lease Liability 
 
The City has entered into leases for building space and equipment use. The terms of the agreements range from 3 
to 4 years. The calculated interest rate based on the length of the lease is 3.00%. As of June 30, 2024, the capitalized 
right-to-use assets related to leases were $2,174,617 and the total lease liability was $442,060, of which $442,060 
is reported as a current liability representing the amount due within the next fiscal year. 
 
The annual debt service requirements for the lease liability were as follows: 
 
Year Ending
June 30,
Principal
Interest
Total
2025
442,060
$        
5,448
$           
447,508
$           
 
 
Subscription Liability 
 
The City has entered into subscription-based information technology arrangements (SBITAs) for services related 
to cloud-based software applications, data storage and management services. Under the terms of these 
arrangements, the City does not take possession of the software at any time and the vendor provides ongoing 
services for the software's operation. The subscription periods vary, with initial non-cancellable terms ranging from 
3 to 10 years. The calculated interest rate used was between 1.71% and 3.14%, depending on the length of the 
SBITA and date of the agreement.  
 
As of June 30, 2024, the capitalized right-to-use assets related to SBITAs were $6,866,009 and the total subscription 
liability was $3,650,644, of which $791,859 is reported as a current liability representing the amount due within 
the next fiscal year. 
206 of 356

--- page 207 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
98 
Note 7 – Long-Term Liabilities (Continued) 
 
B. Governmental Activities (Continued) 
 
Subscription Liability (Continued) 
 
The annual debt service requirements for the subscription liability were as follows: 
 
Year Ending
June 30,
Principal
Interest
Total
2025
791,859
$        
83,361
$         
875,220
$           
2026
731,957
          
65,026
           
796,983
             
2027
486,433
          
48,762
           
535,195
             
2028
500,768
          
37,429
           
538,197
             
2029
359,786
          
25,768
           
385,554
             
2030-2033
779,841
          
29,652
           
809,493
             
Total
3,650,644
$     
305,047
$       
3,940,642
$        
 
 
C. Business-Type Activities 
 
A summary of changes in the long-term liabilities of the business-type activities for the year ended June 30, 2024, 
is as follows: 
 
Balance
Debt
Debt
Balance
Due within
Due in More
July 1, 2023
Issued
Retired
June 30, 2024
One Year
Than One Year
Bonds payable:
Sewer Revenue Bonds, Series 2014A
26,915,000
$     
-
$                      
(1,235,000)
$      
25,680,000
$     
1,300,000
$       
24,380,000
$     
  plus: unamortized bond premium
1,589,438
         
-
                        
(75,688)
             
1,513,750
         
-
                        
1,513,750
         
Wastewater Revenue Bonds, Series 2019
236,180,000
     
-
                        
-
                        
236,180,000
     
-
                        
236,180,000
     
  plus: unamortized bond premium
40,594,633
       
-
                        
(1,618,391)
        
38,976,242
       
-
                        
38,976,242
       
Wastewater Revenue Notes, Series 2021B
271,565,000
     
-
                        
(271,565,000)
    
-
                        
-
                        
-
                        
  plus: unamortized bond premium
25,270,479
       
-
                        
(25,270,479)
      
-
                        
-
                        
-
                        
Wastewater Revenue Refunding 
Bonds, Series 2021A
13,700,000
       
-
                        
(630,000)
           
13,070,000
       
660,000
            
12,410,000
       
  plus: unamortized bond premium
3,320,992
         
-
                        
(174,789)
           
3,146,203
         
-
                        
3,146,203
         
Total bonds payable
619,135,542
     
-
                        
(300,569,347)
    
318,566,195
     
1,960,000
         
316,606,195
     
Notes payable:
Water Infrastructure Finance and 
Innovation Act (WIFIA) Loan
-
                        
295,479,360
     
-
                        
295,479,360
     
-
                        
295,479,360
     
Total notes payable
-
                        
295,479,360
     
-
                        
295,479,360
     
-
                        
295,479,360
     
Lease liability
75,764
              
-
                        
(37,796)
             
37,968
              
37,968
              
-
                        
Total
619,211,306
$   
295,479,360
$   
(300,607,143)
$  
614,083,523
$   
1,997,968
$       
612,085,555
$   
Classification
 
 
Sewer Revenue Bonds, Series 2014A 
 
On July 2, 2014, the City issued Sewer Revenue Bonds, Series 2014A (Series 2014A Bonds), totaling $32,255,000. 
The purpose was to refund the City’s outstanding Sewer Revenue Bonds, Series 2003, and finance various 
improvements to the City’s municipal sewer enterprise. 
 
 
207 of 356

--- page 208 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
99 
Note 7 – Long-Term Liabilities (Continued) 
 
C. Business-Type (Continued) 
 
Sewer Revenue Bonds, Series 2014A (Continued) 
 
The Series 2014A Bonds mature through August 1, 2044, with installments ranging from $670,000 to $2,665,000. 
The interest on the Series 2014A Bonds is payable semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 of each year, with 
coupons ranging from 3.00% to 5.00%. The Series 2014A Bonds are payable solely from net revenues received by 
the City from the operation of the sewer enterprise and certain funds and accounts held under the Indenture. Total 
principal and interest remaining to be paid on the Bonds is $37,264,561. 
 
The annual debt service requirements on the Series 2014A Bonds are as follows: 
 
Year Ending
June 30,
Principal
Interest
Total
2025
1,300,000
$      
992,815
$         
2,292,815
$      
2026
1,365,000
        
926,190
           
2,291,190
        
2027
1,435,000
        
856,190
           
2,291,190
        
2028
1,510,000
        
782,565
           
2,292,565
        
2029
1,570,000
        
721,265
           
2,291,265
        
2030-2034
3,585,000
        
3,207,573
        
6,792,573
        
2035-2039
4,260,000
        
2,526,250
        
6,786,250
        
2040-2044
7,990,000
        
1,518,413
        
9,508,413
        
2045
2,665,000
        
53,300
             
2,718,300
        
Total
25,680,000
$    
11,584,561
$    
37,264,561
$    
 
 
Wastewater Revenue Bonds, Series 2019 
 
In June of 2019, the City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District/City of Foster City jointly 
issued the 2019 Series Wastewater Revenue Bonds in the amount of $270,000,000 (2019 Wastewater Bonds) 
through a joint powers financing authority, San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority (Authority). Of the 
total issuance amount, the City is responsible for $236,180,000. Interest payments are payable semi-annually on 
February 1 and August 1, commencing February 1, 2020. The bonds mature through August 1, 2049, and bear 
interest at the rate of 4.00% - 5.00%. The issuance resulted in a bond premium of $53,780,407, of which the City’s 
share was $47,201,120.  
 
Interest payments and revenue bond retirements are serviced by the revenues generated by the City of San Mateo 
Sewer Enterprise Fund and the Foster City/Estero Municipal Improvement District Wastewater Enterprise Fund 
pursuant to a reimbursement agreement. The City’s total principal and interest remaining to be paid on the bonds 
is $413,160,475. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
208 of 356

--- page 209 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
100 
Note 7 – Long-Term Liabilities (Continued) 
 
C. Business-Type Activities (Continued) 
 
Wastewater Revenue Bonds, Series 2019 (Continued) 
 
The annual debt service requirements on the 2019 Wastewater Bonds were as follows: 
 
Year Ending
June 30,
Principal
Interest
Total
2025
-
$                     
10,947,250
$    
10,947,250
$    
2026
2,520,000
        
10,884,250
      
13,404,250
      
2027
3,650,000
        
10,730,000
      
14,380,000
      
2028
4,830,000
        
10,518,000
      
15,348,000
      
2029
5,070,000
        
10,270,500
      
15,340,500
      
2030-2034
34,300,000
      
46,713,500
      
81,013,500
      
2035-2039
44,930,000
      
37,170,650
      
82,100,650
      
2040-2044
55,690,000
      
26,417,750
      
82,107,750
      
2045-2049
69,170,000
      
12,928,075
      
82,098,075
      
2050
16,020,000
      
400,500
           
16,420,500
      
Total
236,180,000
$  
176,980,475
$  
413,160,475
$  
 
 
Wastewater Revenue Notes, Series 2021B 
 
On July 1, 2021, the Authority issued the 2021 Series Wastewater Revenue Note in the amount of $62,760,000 and 
$271,565,000 respectively. The 2021B Notes were issued to costs of the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) 
capital improvements. Of the total issuance amount, the City is responsible for $271,565,000. Interest payments are 
payable semi- annually on February 1 and August 1, commencing February 1, 2022. The bonds mature through 
August 1, 2025, and bear interest at the rate of 5.00%. The issuance resulted in a bond premium of $62,249,468, of 
which the City’s share was $50,540,962. The Notes were refunded with the issuance of the 2024 WIFIA Loans. 
 
Wastewater Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2021A 
 
On July 1, 2021, the Authority issued the 2021 Series A Wastewater Revenue Refunding Bonds in the amount of 
$14,265,000. The Bonds were issued to refund the City of San Mateo’s 2011 Series A Bonds, which provided an 
arbitrage yield of 0.465% and $7.4 million in PV debt service savings. The aggregate difference between the 
remaining debt service requirements of the 2011A Bonds and the Revenue Refunding Bonds at the time of refunding 
was $634,014.
209 of 356

--- page 210 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
101 
Note 7 – Long-Term Liabilities (Continued) 
 
C. Business-Type Activities (Continued) 
 
Wastewater Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2021A (Continued) 
 
The Series 2021A Bonds mature annually each August 1 through 2041, with installments ranging from $530,000 
to $935,000. Interest payments are payable semi- annually on February 1 and August 1, commencing 
February 1, 2022. The bonds mature through August 1, 2041, and bear interest at the rate of 1.55-5.00%. The 
issuance resulted in a bond premium of $3,670,571. The Series 2021A Bonds are payable solely from net revenues 
received by the City from the operation of the sewer enterprise and certain funds and accounts held under the 
Indenture. Total principal and interest remaining to be paid on the Bonds is $18,336,875. 
 
The annual debt service requirements for the Series 2021A Bonds were as follows: 
 
Year Ending
June 30,
Principal
Interest
Total
2025
660,000
$         
577,050
$         
1,237,050
$      
2026
690,000
           
543,300
           
1,233,300
        
2027
730,000
           
507,800
           
1,237,800
        
2028
770,000
           
470,300
           
1,240,300
        
2029
810,000
           
430,800
           
1,240,800
        
2030-2034
2,945,000
        
1,699,625
        
4,644,625
        
2035-2039
3,775,000
        
896,975
           
4,671,975
        
2040-2042
2,690,000
        
141,025
           
2,831,025
        
Total
13,070,000
$    
5,266,875
$      
18,336,875
$    
 
 
Treatment of Revenue Bonds in Aggregate 
 
The City has covenanted in the indenture, to the maximum extent permitted by law, to set rates and charges for the 
service and facilities of the Sewer Enterprise sufficient to provide net revenues each fiscal year equal to 120% of 
the aggregate annual amount of principal and interest due on all parity obligations for such fiscal year and sufficient 
to provide net revenues each fiscal year equal to at least 100% of the aggregate amount of principal and interest due 
on all parity obligations and subordinate obligations for such fiscal year. 
 
There are four revenue bonds/notes secured by revenues received from the operation of the Sewer Enterprise: Series 
2014A Sewer bonds, 2019 Wastewater bonds, and 2021 Wastewater bonds. Annual principal and interest payments 
on the three bonds are expected to require 20% of net revenues. For the current year, principal and interest paid on 
the Series 2014A Sewer bonds was $2,291,190, on the 2019 Wastewater bonds was $10,947,250, and on the 2021 
Wastewater bonds was $1,239,300. Sewer services net revenues were $49,460,487. 
 
Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act Loan 
 
In 2020, the PFA entered into the Wastewater Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) loan agreements 
with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for capital improvement projects of the wastewater 
treatment plant (WWTP), jointly owned by San Mateo and Foster City/EMID, up to $210,339,360 (San Mateo) and 
$66,860,640 (Foster City/EMID), respectively.  In addition, San Mateo’s WIFIA loan for its Basin 2 & 3 collection 
project allows for loan proceeds up to $85,140,000.  San Mateo’s WWTP WIFIA loan bears interest at 1.32% and 
its Basin 2 & 3 WIFIA loan bears interest at 1.31%. Foster City/EMID’s WWTP loan bears interest at 1.14%.  
Interest payments and revenue bond retirements are serviced by lease payments made by the City and Foster 
City/EMID. 
210 of 356

--- page 211 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
102 
Note 7 – Long-Term Liabilities (Continued) 
 
C. Business-Type Activities (Continued) 
 
Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act Loan (Continued) 
 
On February 9, 2024, EPA approved the loan amendments to allow for early draws on the WIFIA loans. 
Subsequently, San Mateo and Foster City/EMID submitted draw requisitions for the full amount of their WIFIA 
loans, $66,860,640 for Foster City/EMID and $295,479,360 for San Mateo.  
 
On February 15, 2024, City received the WIFIA loan proceeds and used part of the loan proceeds to defease the 
2021 Wastewater Revenue Notes, Series B.  The defeasances were closed on February 15, 2024. Interest payments 
are payable semi- annually on February 1 and August 1, commencing August 1, 2024. The bonds mature through 
August 1, 2055, and bear interest at the rate of 1.31%. The total principal and interest remaining to be paid on the 
bonds at June 30, 2024 was $370,584,812. 
 
The annual debt service requirements for the WIFIA loans outstanding at June 30, 2024 were as follows: 
 
Year Ending
June 30,
Principal
Interest
Total
2025
-
$                     
3,729,655
$      
3,729,655
$      
2026
3,042,797
        
3,871,849
        
6,914,646
        
2027
3,488,616
        
3,828,980
        
7,317,596
        
2028
3,940,356
        
3,780,190
        
7,720,546
        
2029
4,398,095
        
3,725,400
        
8,123,495
        
2030-2034
29,072,176
      
17,589,540
      
46,661,716
      
2035-2039
41,462,643
      
15,272,811
      
56,735,454
      
2040-2044
54,698,022
      
12,111,171
      
66,809,193
      
2045-2049
68,835,928
      
8,047,004
        
76,882,932
      
2050-2054
79,937,906
      
3,045,066
        
82,982,972
      
2055-2056
6,602,821
        
103,786
           
6,706,607
        
Total
295,479,360
$  
75,105,452
$    
370,584,812
$  
 
 
Lease Liability 
 
The City has entered into a lease for equipment use. The terms of the agreements was for 3 years. The calculated 
interest rate  based on the length of the lease was 0.46 percent. As of June 30, 2024, the capitalized right-to-use 
assets related to leases were $110,037 and the total lease liability was $37,968, of which $37,968 is reported as a 
current liability representing the amount due within the next fiscal year. 
 
The annual debt service requirements for the lease liability were as follows: 
 
Year Ending
June 30,
Principal
Interest
Total
2025
37,968
$           
94
$                  
38,062
$           
 
 
 
 
211 of 356

--- page 212 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
103 
Note 7 – Long-Term Liabilities (Continued) 
 
D. Fiduciary Funds Private Purpose Trust Funds - Successor Agency to the Redevelopment Agency of the City of 
San Mateo 
 
A summary of changes in the long-term liabilities of the fiduciary fund financial statements for the year ended 
June 30, 2024, is as follows: 
 
Balance
Debt
Debt
Balance
Due within
Due in More
July 1, 2023
Issued
Retired
June 30, 2024
One Year
Than One Year
Fiduciary Activities:
Bonds payable:
Tax Allocation Refunding Bonds, Series 2015A
30,680,000
$     
-
$                      
(1,265,000)
$      
29,415,000
$     
1,325,000
$       
28,090,000
$     
  plus: unamortized bond premium
1,641,067
         
-
                        
(182,340)
           
1,458,727
         
-
                        
1,458,727
         
Tax Allocation Refunding Bonds, Series 2017A
8,855,000
         
-
                        
(2,810,000)
        
6,045,000
         
2,945,000
         
3,100,000
         
  plus: unamortized bond premium
869,743
            
-
                        
(417,478)
           
452,265
            
-
                        
452,265
            
Total bonds payable
42,045,810
       
-
                        
(4,674,818)
        
37,370,992
       
4,270,000
         
33,100,992
       
Total
42,045,810
$     
-
$                      
(4,674,818)
$      
37,370,992
$     
4,270,000
$       
33,100,992
$     
Classification
 
 
Tax Allocation Refunding Bonds, Series 2015A  
 
On August 5, 2015, the Successor Agency of the Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Mateo issued 
$31,210,000 principal amount Tax Allocation Refunding Bonds, Series 2015A (2015A Refunding Bonds). The 
proceeds of the 2015A Refunding Bonds were used to advance refund the Merged Area Tax Allocation Bonds, 
Series 2005A Bonds. The 2015A Refunding Bonds are tax-exempt. The 2015A Refunding Bonds mature through 
August 1, 2032, with installments ranging from $530,000 to $4,150,000. The interest on the 2015A Refunding 
Bonds is payable semi-annually on each February 1 and August 1, with coupon rates ranging from 4.00% to 5.00%. 
The 2015A Refunding Bonds are subject to early redemption provisions. Total principal and interest remaining to 
be paid on the Bonds is $36,574,375. 
 
The annual debt service requirements on the 2015A Refunding Bonds are as follows: 
 
Year Ending
June 30,
Principal
Interest
Total
2025
1,325,000
$      
1,375,750
$      
2,700,750
$      
2026
1,375,000
        
1,321,750
        
2,696,750
        
2027
3,840,000
        
1,198,250
        
5,038,250
        
2028
4,025,000
        
1,001,625
        
5,026,625
        
2029
3,410,000
        
815,750
           
4,225,750
        
2030-2033
15,440,000
      
1,446,250
        
16,886,250
      
Total
29,415,000
$    
7,159,375
$      
36,574,375
$    
 
 
Tax Allocation Refunding Bonds, Series 2017A 
 
On October 17, 2017, the Successor Agency of the Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Mateo issued 
$21,440,000 principal amount Tax Allocation Refunding Bonds, Series 2017A (2017A Refunding Bonds). The 
proceeds of the 2017A Refunding Bonds were used to advance refund the tax-exempt Merged Area Tax Allocation 
Refunding Bonds, Series 2007A. The 2017A Refunding Bonds are tax-exempt. The 2017A Refunding Bonds 
mature through August 1, 2025, with installments ranging from $2,425,000 to $3,100,000. The interest on the 
2017A Refunding Bonds is payable semi-annually on each February 1 and August 1, with coupon rates of 5.00%. 
The 2017A Refunding Bonds are subject to early redemption provisions. Total principal and interest remaining to 
be paid on the Bonds is $6,351,125.  
212 of 356

--- page 213 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
104 
Note 7 – Long-Term Liabilities (Continued) 
 
D. Fiduciary Funds Private Purpose Trust Funds - Successor Agency to the Redevelopment Agency of the City of 
San Mateo (Continued) 
 
Tax Allocation Refunding Bonds, Series 2017A (Continued) 
 
The annual debt service requirements on the 2017A Refunding Bonds are as follows: 
 
Year Ending
June 30,
Principal
Interest
Total
2025
2,945,000
$      
228,625
$         
3,173,625
$      
2026
3,100,000
        
77,500
             
3,177,500
        
Total
6,045,000
$      
306,125
$         
6,351,125
$      
 
 
Pledged Revenues 
 
Tax Allocation Bonds held by the Successor Agency of the Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Mateo are 
secured by property tax revenues. For the current year, principal and interest paid on the Series 2015A and 2017A, 
Tax Allocation Bonds were $2,692,550 and $3,182,500, respectively and Redevelopment Agency Property Tax 
Trust Fund distributions were $5,994,500. 
 
 
Note 8 – Special Assessment Debt with No City Commitment 
 
The City issued special tax and assessment bonds on behalf of property owners, pursuant to the Improvement Bond Act 
of 1915 and the Mellow-Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982, to finance the acquisition and construction of certain 
infrastructure improvements within the assessment districts and community facilities districts. 
 
The City has authorized the formation of the Bay Meadows Community Facilities District No. 2008-1 (Bay Meadows 
CFD), acting through its eligible landowner voters, and the issuance of bonds under the public improvement act (Mello-
Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982) of the State of California to finance eligible public facilities necessary to serve 
developing commercial, industrial, residential and/or mixed use developments. The bonds are secured by annual special 
tax levies or liens placed on the property within the district. 
 
The City is not liable for repayment and acts only as an agent for the property owners in collecting the special taxes or 
assessments, forwarding the collections to bondholders, and initiating foreclosure proceedings when necessary. These 
bonds are payable solely from special taxes or assessments, specific reserves, and the proceeds from property 
foreclosures to be levied by the Bay Meadows CFD. The City is the collecting and paying agent for the debt, but has 
no direct or contingent liability for the payment of this debt. Accordingly, the special tax bonds are not reported as 
liabilities in the City’s basic financial statements. 
 
Noncommittal debt amounts issued and outstanding at June 30, 2024 are as follows: 
 
Outstanding
Original
Balance
Amount
June 30, 2024
CFD 2008-1, Series Special Tax Bonds Refunding Bonds Series 2022
72,345,000
$        
71,350,000
$        
 
 
 
213 of 356

--- page 214 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
105 
Note 9 – Compensated Absences 
 
Employees accrue vacation, annual leave, earned time off, and holiday leave up to certain maximums, based on the 
employee’s bargaining unit. Employees may elect to be paid a portion of these leaves at various times according to the 
applicable Memorandum of Understanding. Sick leave may be accumulated without limit. Sick leave may be paid upon 
retirement up to 50% of accumulated balance up to 960 hours with the maximum payout not to exceed 480 hours. 
 
A. Governmental Activities 
 
A summary of changes in the compensated absences balances for the governmental activities for the year ended 
June 30, 2024 is as follows:  
 
Balance
Balance
Due within
Due in More
July 1, 2023
Additions
Deletions
June 30, 2024
One Year
Than One Year
Compensated absences
7,993,834
$       
7,319,664
$       
(7,034,953)
$     
8,278,545
$       
910,640
$          
7,367,905
$       
Classification
 
 
Compensated absences in the governmental activities generally liquidate to the General Fund.  
 
B. Business-Type Activities 
 
A summary of changes in the compensated absences balances for the business-type activities for the year ended 
June 30, 2024 is as follows:  
 
Balance
Balance
Due within
Due in More
July 1, 2023
Additions
Deletions
June 30, 2024
One Year
Than One Year
Compensated absences
1,108,325
$       
1,199,221
$       
(1,206,426)
$     
1,101,120
$       
121,123
$          
979,997
$          
Classification
 
 
Compensated absences in the business-type activities are obligations of the Sewer Fund. 
 
 
Note 10 – Landfill Closure 
 
The City is responsible for closing the East Third Avenue Waste Disposal and Landfill site in accordance with the 
California Code of Regulations under the jurisdiction of the California Integrated Waste Management Board. In fiscal 
year 1992, the City developed a Closure Plan that in management’s view will meet all regulatory requirements. As 
stated in the California Code of Regulations, Division 2 Title 27 Article 2 Section 21180, “a) the landfill shall be 
maintained and monitored for a period of not less than fifteen (15) years after the completion of closure of the entire 
solid waste landfill.” The landfill is at capacity and inactive, and final closure occurred in FY 2005-06. 
 
As of June 30, 2024, the estimated amount of $1,728,952 has been recorded as Landfill Post-Closure Costs Payable in 
the Government-Wide Financial Statements. 
 
Balance
Balance
Due within
Due in More
July 1, 2023
Additions
Deletions
June 30, 2024
One Year
Than One Year
Landfill closure and 
post-closure costs payable 
1,668,873
$      
171,337
$         
(111,258)
$        
1,728,952
$      
115,264
$         
1,613,688
$      
Classification
 
214 of 356

--- page 215 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
106 
Note 11 – Pension Plans 
 
A. Summary  
 
Governmental
Business-Type 
 Activities
Activities
Total
Deferred outflows of resources:
Pension contribution made after measurement date:
CalPERS Miscellaneous 
8,713,569
$         
2,078,566
$         
10,792,135
$       
CalPERS Safety 
17,313,205
         
-
                          
17,313,205
         
Total pension contribution made after measurement date
26,026,774
         
2,078,566
           
28,105,340
         
Change in assumptions
CalPERS Miscellaneous 
1,776,099
           
423,677
              
2,199,776
           
Total change in assumptions
1,776,099
           
423,677
              
2,199,776
           
Projected earnings on pension plan investments in excess of actual earnings:
CalPERS Miscellaneous 
8,647,864
           
2,062,891
           
10,710,755
         
CalPERS Safety 
13,329,014
         
-
                          
13,329,014
         
Total projected earnings on pension plan investments in excess of 
actual earnings
21,976,878
         
2,062,891
           
24,039,769
         
Difference between expected and actual experience
CalPERS Miscellaneous 
1,615,510
           
385,369
              
2,000,879
           
CalPERS Safety 
1,271,705
           
-
                          
1,271,705
           
Total difference between expected and actual experience
2,887,215
           
385,369
              
3,272,584
           
Total deferred outflows of resources
CalPERS Miscellaneous 
20,753,042
         
4,950,503
           
25,703,545
         
CalPERS Safety 
31,913,924
         
-
                          
31,913,924
         
Total deferred outflows of resources
52,666,966
$       
4,950,503
$         
57,617,469
$       
Net pension liability:
CalPERS Miscellaneous 
77,350,265
$       
18,451,401
$       
95,801,666
$       
CalPERS Safety 
191,686,006
       
-
                          
191,686,006
       
Total net pension liability
269,036,271
$     
18,451,401
$       
287,487,672
$     
Deferred inflows of resources:
Difference between expected and actual experience
CalPERS Miscellaneous 
414,055
$            
98,770
$              
512,825
$            
Total difference between expected and actual experience
414,055
              
98,770
                
512,825
              
Total deferred inflows of resources
CalPERS Miscellaneous 
414,055
              
98,770
                
512,825
              
Total deferred inflows of resources
414,055
$            
98,770
$              
512,825
$            
 Pension expenses: 
CalPERS Miscellaneous 
12,743,367
$       
3,039,847
$         
15,783,214
$       
CalPERS Safety 
28,746,375
         
-
                          
28,746,375
         
 Total net pension expenses 
41,489,742
$       
3,039,847
$         
44,529,589
$       
 
215 of 356

--- page 216 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
107 
Note 11 – Pension Plans (Continued) 
 
B. General Information about Pension 
 
Plan Description 
 
Substantially all City employees working the equivalent of 1,000 hours per fiscal year are eligible to participate in 
the Miscellaneous or Safety Agent multiple-employer defined benefit plan administered by California Public 
Employees Retirement System (CalPERS), which acts as a common investment and administrative agent for its 
participating member employers. Benefit Provisions under the Plans are established by State statutes within the 
Public Employee’s Retirement Law. CalPERS issues publicly available reports that include a full description of the 
pension plans regarding benefit provisions, assumptions and membership information that can be found on the 
CalPERS website. Copies of the CalPERS annual financial report may be obtained from the CalPERS Executive 
Office – 400 P Street, Sacramento, CA 95814. 
 
Employees Covered  
 
At June 30, 2023, the measurement date, the following employees were covered by the benefit terms for the Plan: 
 
Miscellaneous Plan
Safety Plan
Total
Active employees
358
                           
106
                           
464
                           
Transferred and terminated employees
467
                           
187
                           
654
                           
Retired employees and beneficiaries
663
                           
405
                           
1,068
                        
Total
1,488
                        
698
                           
2,186
                        
 
 
Benefits Provided 
 
CalPERS provide retirement and disability benefits, annual cost-of-living adjustments, and death benefits to plan 
members and beneficiaries. Classic CalPERS member becomes eligible for service retirement upon attainment of 
age 55 with at least 5 years of credited service. PEPRA miscellaneous members become eligible for service 
retirement upon attainment of age 62 with at least 5 years of service. The service retirement benefit is a monthly 
allowance equal to the product of the benefit factor, years of service, and final compensation. The final 
compensation is the monthly average of the member's highest 36 full-time equivalent monthly pay.  
 
Following are the benefit provisions for each plan: 
 
Hire Date
Miscellaneous Plan
Safety Plan
Benefit formula
2.0% @ 55
3% @ 50
Benefit vesting schedule
5 years service
5 years service
Benefit payments
Monthly for life
Monthly for life
Retirement age
55
                               
50
                               
Monthly benefits, as a % of eligible compensation
2.0%
3.000%
Required employee contribution rates for Classic members
8.00%
9.00%
Required employer contribution rates
9.770%
21.180%
Final Annual Compensation
1 year
1 year  
 
On January 1, 2013, the Public Employee Pension Reform Act (PEPRA) went into effect. This State law applies to 
employees hired on or after January 1, 2013 who are new to Public Employee Retirement Systems (PERS). These 
employees are termed PEPRA members and employees that were enrolled in PERS (without significant separation) 
prior to January 1, 2013 are now referred to as classic members. PEPRA miscellaneous members will be enrolled 
in a 2% at 62 plan and PEPRA safety members will be enrolled in a 2.7% at 57 plan. PEPRA members will be 
required to pay half the normal cost of their plans.
216 of 356

--- page 217 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
108 
Note 11 – Pension Plans (Continued) 
 
B. General Information about Pension (Continued) 
 
Contributions  
 
Section 20814(C) of the California Public Employees’ Retirement Law (PERL) requires that the employer 
contribution rates for all public employers be determined on an annual basis by the actuary and shall be effective 
on the July 1 following notice of a change in the rate. Funding contributions for both Plans are determined annually 
on an actuarial basis as of June 30 by CalPERS. The actuarially determined rate is the estimated amount necessary 
to finance the costs of benefits earned by employees during the year (normal cost), with additional amount to finance 
any unfunded accrued liability (UAL). The City is required to contribute the difference between the actuarially 
determined rate and the contribution rate of employees. For the measurement period ended June 30, 2023 (the 
measurement date), the average active employee contribution rate is 7 percent of annual pay for the Miscellaneous 
Plan and 10 percent of annual pay for the Safety Plan, and employer contribution rate is 26.80 percent of annual 
payroll for the Miscellaneous Plan and 88.67 percent of annual payroll for the Safety Plan. Of note, the pension 
liability for the service years of former City employees that transferred to the San Mateo Consolidated Fire 
Department remains with the City, thus the UAL as a percentage of payroll is higher, as the UAL is relative to the 
remaining Safety Plan members (Police Department employees). As of June 30, 2024, in the opinion of City 
Administration, there were no additional outstanding matters that would have a significant effect on the financial 
position of the City. 
 
For the year ended June 30, 2024, the plan’s contributions made for the Plan was as follows: 
 
Miscellaneous Plan
Safety Plan
Contributions - employer
10,792,135
$             
17,313,205
$             
 
 
Net Pension Liability 
 
The City’s net pension liability is measured as the total pension liability, less the pension plan’s fiduciary net 
position. The net pension liability of the Plan is measured as of June 30, 2023, using an annual actuarial valuation 
as of June 30, 2022 rolled forward to June 30, 2023 using standard update procedures. A summary of principal 
assumptions and methods used to determine the net pension liability is shown as follows. 
 
Actuarial Assumptions  
 
The total pension liabilities in the June 30, 2023 actuarial valuations were determined using the following actuarial 
assumptions: 
 
Actuarial Cost Method
Actuarial Assumptions:
Discount Rate
Inflation
Salary Increases
Mortality Rate Table(1)
Post Retirement Benefit Increase
Entry Age Normal
6.90%
2.30%
Varies by Entry Age and Service
Derived using CalPERS’ Membership Data for all Funds.
The lesser of contract COLA or 2.30% until Purchasing Power 
Protection. Allowance floor on purchasing power applies, 2.30% 
thereafter.
(1)The mortality table used was developed based on CalPERS-specific data. The rates incorporate Generational Mortality to
capture ongoing mortality improvement using 80% of Scale MP 2020 published by the Society of Actuaries. For more details,
please refer to the 2021 experience study report that can be found on the CalPERS website.
 
217 of 356

--- page 218 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
109 
Note 11 – Pension Plans (Continued) 
 
B. General Information about Pension (Continued) 
 
Discount Rate 
 
In determining the long-term expected rate of return, CalPERS took into account, both short-term and long-term 
market return expectations as well as the expected pension fund cash flows. Such cash flows were developed 
assuming that both members and employers will make their required contributions on time and as scheduled in all 
future years. Using historical returns of all the funds’ asset classes, expected compound (geometric) returns were 
calculated over the 20 years using a building-block approach. Using the expected nominal returns for both short-
term and long-term, the present value of benefits was calculated for each fund. The expected rate of return was set 
by calculating the single equivalent expected return that arrived at the same present value of benefits for cash flows 
as the one calculated using both short-term and long-term returns. The expected rate of return was then set 
equivalent to the single equivalent rate calculated above and rounded down to the nearest one quarter of one percent. 
 
The table below reflects long-term expected real rate of return by asset class. The rate of return was calculated using 
the capital market assumptions applied to determine the discount rate and asset allocation. These geometric rates of 
return are net of administrative expenses. 
 
Asset Class
Assumed Asset 
Allocation
Real Return 
1,2
Global equity - cap-weighted
30.00%
4.54%
Global equity - non-cap-weighted
12.00%
3.84%
Private equity
13.00%
7.28%
Treasury
5.00%
0.27%
Mortgage-backed securities
5.00%
0.50%
Investment grade corporates
10.00%
1.56%
High yield
5.00%
2.27%
Emerging market debt
5.00%
2.48%
Private debt
5.00%
3.57%
Real assets
15.00%
3.21%
Leverage
-5.00%
-0.59%
100.00%
1 An expected inflation of 2.30% was used for this period. 
2 Figures are based on the 2021 Asset Liability Management study.
 
 
The discount rate used to measure the total pension liability was 6.90% for the plan. To determine whether the 
municipal bond rate should be used in the calculation of a discount rate for each plan, CalPERS stress tested plans 
that would most likely result in a discount rate that would be different from the actuarially assumed discount rate. 
Based on the testing, none of the tested plans run out of assets. Therefore, the current 6.90% discount rate is adequate 
and the use of the municipal bond rate calculation is not necessary. The long term expected discount rate of 6.90% 
is applied to all plans in the Public Employees Retirement Fund (PERF). The stress test results are presented in a 
detailed report called “GASB Crossover Testing Report” that can be obtained from the CalPERS website under the 
GASB 68 Section. 
 
 
 
 
 
218 of 356

--- page 219 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
110 
Note 11 – Pension Plans (Continued) 
 
B. General Information about Pension (Continued) 
 
Sensitivity of the Net Pension Liability to Changes in the Discount Rate 
 
The following presents the City’s net pension liability, calculated using the discount rate, as well as what the City’s 
net pension liability would be if it were calculated using a discount rate that is one percentage point lower or one 
percentage point higher than the current rate: 
 
Discount Rate - 1%
Current Discount
Discount Rate + 1%
(5.90%)
Rate (6.90%)
(7.90%)
Miscellaneous Plan
137,435,462
$           
95,801,666
$             
61,286,709
$             
Safety Plan
255,327,249
$           
191,686,006
$           
139,435,590
$           
Plan's Aggregate Net Pension Liability/(Asset)
 
 
Changes in the Net Pension Liability 
 
The following table shows the changes in net pension liability recognized over the measurement period: 
 
Total Pension 
Liability
Plan Fiduciary Net 
Position
Net Pension 
Liability
Balance at June 30, 2022 (Valuation Date)
319,268,003
$             
227,767,747
$             
91,500,256
$               
Changes in the year:
Service cost
5,920,696
                   
-
                                  
5,920,696
                   
Interest on the total pension liabilities
21,858,537
                 
-
                                  
21,858,537
                 
Changes in benefit terms
425,881
                      
-
                                  
425,881
                      
Differences between expected and actual experience
3,251,428
                   
-
                                  
3,251,428
                   
Benefit payments, including refunds of members contributions
(18,230,555)
                
(18,230,555)
                
-
                                  
Contributions - employer
-
                                  
10,683,495
                 
(10,683,495)
                
Contributions - employee
-
                                  
2,571,915
                   
(2,571,915)
                  
Net investment income
-
                                  
14,067,212
                 
(14,067,212)
                
Administrative expenses
-
                                  
(167,490)
                     
167,490
                      
Net changes
13,225,987
                 
8,924,577
                   
4,301,410
                   
Balance at June 30, 2023 (Measurement Date)
332,493,990
$             
236,692,324
$             
95,801,666
$               
Miscellaneous Plan
 
Total Pension 
Liability
Plan Fiduciary Net 
Position
Net Pension 
Liability
Balance at June 30, 2022 (Valuation Date)
472,391,862
$             
285,135,370
$             
187,256,492
$             
Changes in the year:
Service cost
5,234,236
                   
-
                                  
5,234,236
                   
Interest on the total pension liabilities
32,047,044
                 
-
                                  
32,047,044
                 
Changes in benefit terms
206,341
                      
-
                                  
206,341
                      
Differences between expected and actual experience
2,427,801
                   
-
                                  
2,427,801
                   
Benefit payments, including refunds of members contributions
(26,386,401)
                
(26,386,401)
                
-
                                  
Contributions - employer
-
                                  
16,292,527
                 
(16,292,527)
                
Contributions - employee
-
                                  
1,761,725
                   
(1,761,725)
                  
Net investment income
-
                                  
17,641,331
                 
(17,641,331)
                
Administrative expenses
-
                                  
(209,675)
                     
209,675
                      
Net changes
13,529,021
                 
9,099,507
                   
4,429,514
                   
Balance at June 30, 2023 (Measurement Date)
485,920,883
$             
294,234,877
$             
191,686,006
$             
Safety Plan
219 of 356

--- page 220 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
111 
Note 11 – Pension Plans (Continued) 
 
B. General Information about Pension (Continued) 
 
Pension Expenses and Deferred Outflows/Inflows of Resources Related to Pensions 
 
For the year ended June 30, 2024, the City recognized pension expense in the amount of $15,783,214 and 
$28,746,375 for the miscellaneous and safety plans, respectively. 
 
The amortization period differs depending on the source of the gain or loss. The difference between projected and 
actual earnings is amortized over 5-years straight line. All other amounts are amortized straight-line over the 
average expected remaining service lives of all members that are provided with benefits (active, inactive and retired) 
as of the beginning of the measurement period.  
 
The Expected Average Remaining Service Lifetime (“EARSL”) is calculated by dividing the total future service 
years by the total number of plan participants (active, inactive, and retired) in the risk pool. For the Miscellaneous 
Plan, the EARSL for the Miscellaneous Plan for the 2022-23 measurement period is 2.6 years, which was obtained 
by dividing the total service years of 3,826 (the sum of remaining service lifetimes of the active employees) by 
1,454 (the total number of participants: active, inactive, and retired). For the Safety Plan, the EARSL for the 2021-
22 measurement period is 2.1 years, which was obtained by dividing the total service years of 1,459 (the sum of 
remaining service lifetimes of the active employees) by 696 (the total number of participants: active, inactive, and 
retired). 
 
At June 30, 2024, the City reported deferred outflows of resources and deferred inflows of resources related to 
pensions from the following sources: 
 
Deferred outflows
Deferred inflows
of Resources
of Resources
Pension contributions made subsequent
 to measurement date
10,792,135
$             
-
$                              
Difference between projected and actual 
earning on pension plan investments
10,710,755
               
-
                                
Changes in assumptions
2,199,776
                 
-
                                
Differences between expected and actual experience
2,000,879
                 
(512,825)
                   
Total
25,703,545
$             
(512,825)
$                 
Deferred outflows
Deferred inflows
of Resources
of Resources
Pension contributions made subsequent
 to measurement date
17,313,205
$             
-
$                              
Difference between projected and actual 
earning on pension plan investments
13,329,014
               
-
                                
Differences between expected and actual experience
1,271,705
                 
-
                                
Total
31,913,924
$             
-
$                              
Miscellaneous Plan
Safety Plan
 
220 of 356

--- page 221 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
112 
Note 11 – Pension Plans (Continued) 
 
B. General Information about Pension (Continued) 
 
Pension Expenses and Deferred Outflows/Inflows of Resources Related to Pensions (Continued) 
 
Deferred outflows
Deferred inflows
of Resources
of Resources
Pension contributions made subsequent
 to measurement date
28,105,340
$             
-
$                              
Difference between projected and actual 
earning on pension plan investments
24,039,769
               
-
                                
Changes in assumptions
2,199,776
                 
-
                                
Differences between expected and actual experience
3,272,584
                 
(512,825)
                   
Total
57,617,469
$             
(512,825)
$                 
Total
 
For the General Information about Pension, for the Miscellaneous and Safety Plans, $10,792,135 and $17,313,205, 
respectively, was reported as deferred outflows of resources related to pensions resulting from City’s contributions 
subsequent to the measurement date and will be recognized as a reduction of the net pension liability in the year 
ended June 30, 2025. Other amounts reported as deferred outflows of resources and deferred inflows of resources 
related to pensions will be recognized in pension expense as follows: 
 
Measurement Period 
Ended June 30,
Miscellaneous Plan
Safety Plan
Total
2024
4,812,869
$               
3,443,976
$               
8,256,845
$               
2025
1,793,904
                 
1,321,451
                 
3,115,355
                 
2026
7,498,985
                 
9,489,206
                 
16,988,191
               
2027
292,827
                    
346,086
                    
638,913
                    
2028
-
                                
-
                                
-
                                
Thereafter
-
                                
-
                                
-
                                
14,398,585
$             
14,600,719
$             
28,999,304
$             
Deferred Outflows/(Inflows) 
of Resources
 
 
Pension Plan Fiduciary Net Position 
 
Detailed information about the plan’s fiduciary net position is available in the separately issued CalPERS financial 
reports.  
 
C. Social Security 
 
Total contributions to Social Security for all City employees during the year ended June 30, 2024 amounted to 
$5,070,433 of which the City paid $2,535,217. 
 
The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 (OBRA) mandates that public sector employees who are not 
members of their employer’s existing retirement system as of January 1, 1992 be covered by either Social Security 
or an alternative plan. The City’s part-time, seasonal and temporary employees are covered under an alternative 
savings plan, which requires these employees and the City to each contribute 3.75% of the employees’ pay for a 
total of 7.50%. 
221 of 356

--- page 222 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
113 
Note 12 – Other Postemployment Benefits 
 
A. Summary  
 
Governmental
Business-Type 
 Activities
Activities
Total
Deferred outflows of resources:
OPEB contribution made after measurement date
1,077,056
$        
159,944
$           
1,237,000
$        
Net difference between projected and actual
earnings of OPEB Plan investments
431,868
             
64,133
               
496,001
             
Difference between expected and actual experience
3,034,923
          
450,690
             
3,485,613
          
Total deferred outflows of resources
4,543,847
$        
674,767
$           
5,218,614
$        
Net OPEB Liability
9,481,590
$        
1,408,025
$        
10,889,615
$      
Deferred inflows of resources:
Difference between expected and actual experience
650,281
$           
96,568
$             
746,849
$           
Change in assumptions
1,132,773
          
168,220
             
1,300,993
          
Total deferred inflows of resources
1,783,054
$        
264,788
$           
2,047,842
$        
OPEB Expense
639,542
$           
94,973
$             
734,515
$           
 
 
B. General Information about OPEB 
 
Plan Description 
 
The City administers a single-employer defined benefit post-employment healthcare plan. Merit employees who 
retire directly from the City under CalPERS at the minimum age 50 with at least 5 years of CalPERS service (or 
disability) are eligible to receive $160 per month for medical insurance premiums paid to CalPERS. This same 
benefit may continue to a surviving spouse depending on the retirement plan election. As of June 30, 2023, there 
were 363 retirees receiving post-employment health care benefits from the City. 
 
Employees Covered 
 
As of the June 30, 2023 actuarial valuation, the following current and former employees were covered by the benefit 
terms: 
 
Active employees
463
                        
Inactive employees or beneficiaries currently receiving benefits
363
                        
Inactive employees entitled to, but not yet receiving benefits
234
                        
Total
1,060
                     
 
 
Contribution 
 
Beginning in the fiscal year 2012-13, the City pre-funds the Plan through California Employers’ Retiree Benefit 
Trust (CERBT) by contributing the City’s Actuarially Determined Contribution (ADC) every year. For the reporting 
period 2023-24, the City contributed $880,0000. 
222 of 356

--- page 223 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
114 
Note 12 – Other Postemployment Benefits (Continued)  
 
B. General Information about OPEB (Continued) 
 
Contribution (Continued) 
 
CERBT is a tax qualified irrevocable trust, organized under Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Section 115, established 
to prefund retirement health benefits. The CERBT issues a publicly available financial report that included financial 
statements and required supplementary information for the City, not individualizing, but in aggregate with the other 
CERBT participants. That report may be obtained by contacting CalPERS. 
 
C. Net OPEB Liability, OPEB Expense and Deferred Outflows/Inflows of Resources Related to OPEB 
 
The City’s net OPEB liability was measured as of June 30, 2023, and the total OPEB liability used to calculate the 
net OPEB liability was determined by an actuarial valuation as of June 30, 2023. 
 
Actuarial Assumptions  
 
The total OPEB liability, measured as of June 30, 2023, was determined using the following actuarial assumptions: 
 
Actuarial Valuation Date
June 30, 2023
Actuarial Cost Method
Entry-Age Normal Cost, Level % of pay
Asset Valuation Method
Market Value
Inflation
2.50%
Payroll Growth
2.50%
Salary Increases
Aggregate - 3.00% annually
Merit - CalPERS 2021 Experience Study
Contribution Policy
Contributes full ADC
Discount Rate
6.10%
Mortality, Retirement, Disability, Termination
Mortality Improvement
Medical Trend
6.50% for 2025 decreasing to 3.90% in 2075
CalPERS 2021 Experience Study
MacLeod Watts Scale 2022
 
 
The actuarial assumptions used in the June 30, 2023 valuation were based on the results of an actuarial experience 
study for the period June 30, 2022 through June 30, 2023. 
 
The long-term expected rate of return on OPEB plan investments was determined using a building-block method 
in which best-estimate ranges of expected future real rates of return (expected returns, net of OPEB plan investment 
expense and inflation) are developed for each major asset class. These ranges are combined to produce the long-
term expected rate of return by weighting the expected future real rates of return by the target asset allocation 
percentage and by adding expected inflation. The target allocation and best estimates of arithmetic real rates of 
return for each major asset class are summarized in the following table: 
 
Asset Class
Target 
Allocation
Long-Term Expected 
Rate of Return
Global Equity
49.00%
4.50%
Fixed Income
23.00%
2.20%
TIPS
5.00%
1.30%
Commodities
3.00%
1.20%
REITs
20.00%
3.90%
100.00%
Long-term assumed rate of inflation
2.500%
Long-term expected rate of return
6.100%
223 of 356

--- page 224 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
115 
Note 12 – Other Postemployment Benefits (Continued) 
 
C. Net OPEB Liability, OPEB Expense and Deferred Outflows/Inflows of Resources Related to OPEB (Continued) 
 
Change in Assumptions 
 
The City’s discount rate used to measure the total OPEB liability decreased from 6.25 percent to 6.10 percent for 
the measurement period ended June 30, 2023. 
 
Discount Rate  
 
The discount rate used to measure the total OPEB liability was 6.10 percent. The projection of cash flows used to 
determine the discount rate assumed that City contributions will be made at rates equal to the actuarially determined 
contribution rates. Based on those assumptions, the City plan's fiduciary net position was projected to be available 
to make all projected OPEB payments for current active and inactive employees. Therefore, the long-term expected 
rate of return on OPEB plan investments was applied to all periods of projected benefit payments to determine the 
total OPEB liability. 
 
Change in Net OPEB Liability 
 
Total
Plan
Net
OPEB
Fiduciary
OPEB
Liability
Net Position
Liability
Balance at June 30, 2022
17,257,574
$          
8,830,251
$            
8,427,323
$            
Changes Recognized for the Measurement Period:
Service Cost
563,606
                 
-
                             
563,606
                 
Interest on the total OPEB liability
1,079,059
              
-
                             
1,079,059
              
Difference between expected and actual experience
4,098,199
              
-
                             
4,098,199
              
Changes in assumptions
(1,405,066)
             
-
                             
(1,405,066)
             
Contribution from the employer
-
                             
1,193,000
              
(1,193,000)
             
Net investment income
-
                             
683,260
                 
(683,260)
                
Administrative expenses
-
                             
(2,754)
                    
2,754
                     
Benefit payments
(1,112,477)
             
(1,112,477)
             
-
                             
Net changes during July 1, 2022 to June 30, 2023
3,223,321
              
761,029
                 
2,462,292
              
Balance at June 30, 2023
20,480,895
$          
9,591,280
$            
10,889,615
$          
 
 
OPEB Expense and Deferred Outflows/Inflows of Resources Related to OPEB 
 
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, the City recognized OPEB expense of $734,515. At June 30, 2024, the 
City reported deferred outflows of resources and deferred inflows of resources related to OPEB from the following 
sources: 
 
Deferred 
Deferred 
Outflows of
Inflows of
Resources
Resources
Contributions made after measurement date
1,237,000
$            
-
$                           
Differences between expected and actual experience 
3,485,613
              
(746,849)
                
Changes in assumptions
-
                             
(1,300,993)
             
Net difference between projected and actual
earnings of OPEB Plan investments
496,001
                 
-
                             
5,218,614
$            
(2,047,842)
$           
 
224 of 356

--- page 225 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
116 
Note 12 – Other Postemployment Benefits (Continued) 
 
C. Net OPEB Liability, OPEB Expense and Deferred Outflows/Inflows of Resources Related to OPEB (Continued) 
 
OPEB Expense and Deferred Outflows/Inflows of Resources Related to OPEB (Continued) 
 
The difference between projected OPEB plan investment earnings and actual earnings is amortized over a five-year 
period. The remaining gains and losses are amortized over the expected average remaining service life. The 
expected average remaining service life is 6.69 years, which was determined as of June 30, 2023, the beginning of 
the measurement period, for employees covered by the OPEB plan benefit terms as of the valuation date. 
 
For the OPEB Plan, $1,237,000 was reported as deferred outflows of resources related to OPEB resulting from 
City’s contributions subsequent to the measurement date will be recognized as a reduction of the net OPEB liability 
in the year ended June 30, 2025. Other amounts reported as deferred outflows of resources related to OPEB will be 
recognized as future OPEB expense as follows: 
 
Year Ending
June 30
Amount
2025
(118,184)
$              
2026
323,116
                 
2027
671,738
                 
2028
376,774
                 
2029
402,561
                 
Thereafter
277,767
                 
Total
1,933,772
$            
 
 
Sensitivity of the Net OPEB Liability to Changes in the Discount Rate 
 
The following presents the net OPEB liability of the City, as well as what the net OPEB liability would be if it were 
calculated using a discount rate that is one percentage point lower or one percentage point higher than the current 
rate, for the measurement period ended June 30, 2023:  
 
Discount Rate -1%
Current Discount Rate
Discount Rate +1%
(5.10%)
(6.10%)
(7.10%)
13,358,199
$                  
10,889,615
$                  
8,827,887
$                    
Plan's Net OPEB Liability 
 
 
Sensitivity of the Net OPEB Liability to Changes in Healthcare Cost Trend Rates 
 
The following presents the net OPEB liability of the City, as well as what the net OPEB liability would be if it were 
calculated using a health care cost trend rates that are one percentage point lower or one percentage point higher 
than the current rates, for the measurement period ended June 30, 2023: 
 
1% Decrease
(5.50% - 2.90%)
Current Healthcare
Trend Rate
(6.50% - 3.90%)
1% Increase
(7.50% to 4.90%)
8,651,662
$                    
10,889,615
$                  
13,633,097
$                  
Plan's Net OPEB Liability 
 
 
225 of 356

--- page 226 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
117 
Note 13 – Risk Management 
 
A. Coverage 
 
The City retains a level of risk for both general liability and workers’ compensation. The City carries commercial 
insurance above this limit. The City maintains occurrence basis insurance coverage up to $25 million in excess of 
its $1,000,000 risk retention per occurrence plus $1,000,000 individual member corridor deductible for general 
liability, and $25 million in excess of its $1,000,000 risk retention for workers’ compensation. The City has not had 
claims settlements exceeding insurance coverage for each of the past three fiscal years. 
 
B. Claims Activity 
 
The City’s claims activity is recorded in its internal service funds. Estimated liabilities are recorded when it is 
probable that a loss has occurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Claims that have been 
incurred but not reported (IBNRs) are also included in the liability estimates. 
 
A summary of the changes in claims liabilities for the past three fiscal years follows: 
 
Current Year
Beginning of
Claims and
Balance at
Due in
Fiscal Year
Changes in
Claim
Fiscal Year
Due Within
More than
Liability
Estimates
Payments
End
One Year
One Year
Workers' Compensation
2024
12,100,000
$    
3,001,198
$      
(1,243,198)
$     
13,858,000
$    
2,743,000
$      
11,115,000
$    
2023
12,197,000
      
1,209,675
        
(1,306,675)
       
12,100,000
      
2,396,000
        
9,704,000
        
2022
15,936,000
      
(2,514,129)
       
(1,224,871)
       
12,197,000
      
2,800,000
        
9,397,000
        
Dental
2024
-
$                     
775,609
$         
(775,609)
$        
-
$                     
-
$                     
-
$                     
2023
-
                       
786,503
           
(786,503)
          
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
2022
-
                       
473,383
           
(473,383)
          
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
General Liability
2024
14,610,000
$    
(9,452,000)
$     
(1,118,000)
$     
4,040,000
$      
1,301,000
$      
2,739,000
$      
2023
1,872,000
        
12,879,689
      
(141,689)
          
14,610,000
      
7,074,000
        
7,536,000
        
2022
1,116,000
        
1,663,353
        
(907,353)
          
1,872,000
        
500,000
           
1,372,000
        
Total
2024
26,710,000
$    
(5,675,193)
$     
(3,136,807)
$     
17,898,000
$    
4,044,000
$      
13,854,000
$    
2023
14,069,000
      
14,875,867
      
(2,234,867)
       
26,710,000
      
9,470,000
        
17,240,000
      
2022
17,052,000
      
(377,393)
          
(2,605,607)
       
14,069,000
      
3,300,000
        
10,769,000
      
 
 
 
Note 14 – Joint Ventures 
 
City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal Improvement District 
 
The City and the Estero Municipal Improvement District (Estero), entered into a “Joint Exercise of Powers Agreement” 
in 1974 to construct, maintain, and operate a joint use wastewater treatment plant facility (Facility). The City and Estero 
jointly use and own the Facility. During the original construction phase, the City served as the lead agency. Currently, 
the day-to-day operations and maintenance of the treatment plant are managed by the City. Both parties continue to 
make capital contributions and pay for operational and maintenance costs. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, 
the City paid $27,405,432 for operations and maintenance of the wastewater treatment plant facility. 
226 of 356

--- page 227 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
118 
Note 14 – Joint Ventures (Continued) 
 
City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal Improvement District (Continued) 
 
In June of 2019, the City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District/City of Foster City jointly issued 
the 2019 Series Wastewater Revenue Bonds in the amount of $270,000,000 (2019 Wastewater Bonds) through a joint 
powers financing authority, San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority (Authority). Of the total issuance 
amount, the City is responsible for $236,180,000. Interest payments are payable semi-annually on February 1 and 
August 1, commencing February 1, 2020. The bonds mature through August 1, 2049, and bear interest at the rate of 4-
5%. The issuance resulted in a bond premium of $53,780,407, of which the City’s share was $47,201,120. 
 
In July of 2021, the City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District/City of Foster City jointly issued 
the 2021 Series A and B Wastewater Revenue Notes and 2021 Series A Wastewater Revenue Refunding Bonds in the 
amount of $348,590,000 through a joint powers financing authority, San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority 
(Authority). Of the total issuance amount, the City is responsible for $285,830,000. Interest payments are payable semi-
annually on February 1 and August 1, commencing August 1, 2022. The bonds mature through August 1, 2041, and 
bear interest at the rate of 4.15-5.25%. The issuance resulted in a bond premium of $65,920,038, of which the City’s 
share was $54,211,533. 
 
In February of 2024, the Authority receive the WIFIA loan proceeds and used part of the loan proceeds to defease the 
2021 Wastewater Revenue Notes, Series A and B. 
 
Interest payments and revenue bond retirements are serviced by the revenues generated by the City of San Mateo Sewer 
Enterprise Fund and the Foster City/Estero Municipal Improvement District Wastewater Enterprise Fund pursuant to a 
reimbursement agreement. The City’s total principal and interest remaining to be paid on the bonds is $802,082,162. 
 
City of San Mateo, City of Belmont/Belmont Fire Protection District, and City of Foster City/Estero Municipal 
Improvement District 
 
On November 22, 2017, the City of San Mateo, the City of Belmont/Belmont Fire Protection District, and the City of 
Foster City/Estero Municipal Improvement District formed a Joint Powers Authority (JPA) named the San Mateo 
Consolidated Fire Department (SMC Fire) to provide integrated and comprehensive fire protection, fire prevention, and 
emergency response services to all three communities serving a population of over 164,000. Effective January 13, 2019, 
San Mateo’s financial contributions to SMC Fire is accounted for annually as an investment in equity interest in its 
government-wide financial statements. 
 
SMC Fire is governed under the terms of the JPA Agreement by a Board of Directors consisting of one voting 
representative and one alternate who are elected members from the governing boards of the three JPA Member 
Agencies. Each member agency has the following weighted vote: City of San Mateo (60%), City of Belmont (20%), 
and City of Foster City (20%), with a minimum weighted vote of 80% needed for any action to be taken. 
 
As of June 30, 2024, the City has an investment in JPA equity of $12,740,381. Every year the City adjusts the investment 
based on the City’s proportion of financial activity at SMC Fire (60%). Audited financial statements of SMC Fire are 
available from City of San Mateo, 330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403. 
 
227 of 356

--- page 228 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
119 
Note 14 – Joint Ventures (Continued) 
 
City of San Mateo, City of Belmont/Belmont Fire Protection District, and City of Foster City/Estero Municipal 
Improvement District (Continued) 
 
The condensed audited financial information of the JPA as of June 30, 2024 is as follows (in millions): 
 
Total assets and deferred outflows
37,563,975
$      
Total liabilities and deferred inflows
16,330,007
$      
Total equities
21,233,968
$      
Expenses
52,585,800
$      
Program revenues
51,870,229
$      
General revenues
1,141,902
$        
Change in net position
426,331
$           
 
 
 
Note 15 – Other Required Disclosures 
 
A. Deficit Fund Balances/Net Position 
 
The City’s governmental activities had an unrestricted net position (deficit) of $(53,862,081) as of June 30, 2024. 
This is mainly due to reporting of net pension liability of $(269,036,271) as required under GASB Statement No. 
68 (Note 11) and reporting of Total OPEB liability of $(9,481,590) as required under GASB Statement No. 75 
(Note 12). 
 
At June 30, 2024, the following funds had a fund balances (deficit) or unrestricted net position (deficit), which will 
be eliminated through the reduction in future expenditures and/or the use of new funding sources: 
 
Fund
Fund Type
Deficit
Comprehensive Liability Insurance Fund
Internal Service Fund
2,423,427
$                
Successor Agency to RDA Merged Area Fund 
Fiduciary Fund
37,971,375
                
 
 
The Internal Service Funds deficit is expected to be eliminated by future charges for services. The Successor Agency 
to the Redevelopment Agency Private-Purpose Trust Funds deficit which will be eliminated by future revenues. 
 
B. Expenditures Exceeding Appropriations 
 
For the year ended June 30, 2024, expenditures exceeded appropriations in the following funds by function: 
 
Excess Expenditures
Fund
Function
over Appropriations
General Fund
General government: City attorney
53,883
$                         
General Fund
Public safety: Police
639,660
                         
General Fund
Capital outlay
289,513
                         
Advance Planning Fund
Community development
199,528
                         
Construction Services Fund
General government
44,534
                           
Construction Services Fund
Public works
33,332
                           
Construction Services Fund
Capital outlay
25,855
                           
General Obligation Bonds Debt Service Fund
Non-departmental
1,374
                             
2% Hotel Tax Capital Projects Fund
Non-departmental
6,044
                             
 
228 of 356

--- page 229 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
120 
Note 16 – Fund Balance Classification 
 
The City classifies fund balances, as shown on the Balance Sheet – Governmental Funds, as follows as of June 30, 2024:  
 
General
Non-major
General
Capital Projects
Governmental
Fund
Fund
Funds
Total
Nonspendable
Prepaid items and inventories
304,759
$            
-
$                        
-
$                        
304,759
$               
Total nonspendable
304,759
              
-
                          
-
                          
304,759
                 
Restricted
Advance planning
-
                          
-
                          
5,841,009
           
5,841,009
              
Construction services
-
                          
-
                          
26,933,917
         
26,933,917
            
Debt service
550,000
              
-
                          
7,591,815
           
8,141,815
              
Housing
-
                          
907,476
              
10,622,472
         
11,529,948
            
Infrastructure maintenance
-
                          
9,619,719
           
-
                          
9,619,719
              
Landfill post-closure maintenance
-
                          
-
                          
4,490,002
           
4,490,002
              
Capital projects
-
                          
4,750,829
           
178,905
              
4,929,734
              
Public safety
-
                          
1,132,343
           
531,193
              
1,663,536
              
Public streets and related facilities
-
                          
-
                          
28,759,814
         
28,759,814
            
Solid waste and landfill
-
                          
15,801,041
         
14,423,067
         
30,224,108
            
Total restricted
550,000
              
32,211,408
         
99,372,194
         
132,133,602
          
Assigned
Capital projects
10,028,554
         
26,595,669
         
-
                          
36,624,223
            
Other purposes
1,414,672
           
-
                          
-
                          
1,414,672
              
Total assigned
11,443,226
         
26,595,669
         
-
                          
38,038,895
            
Unassigned
105,659,356
       
-
                          
-
                          
105,659,356
          
Total fund balances
117,957,341
$     
58,807,077
$       
99,372,194
$       
276,136,612
$        
 
229 of 356

--- page 230 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
121 
Note 17 – Net Investment in Capital Assets 
 
Net Investment in Capital Assets at June 30, 2024, consisted of the following: 
 
Governmental
Business-Type
Activities
Activities
Net investment in capital assets:
Capital assets, nondepreciable
82,476,143
$      
613,717,839
$    
Capital assets, depreciable/amortizable, net
400,058,126
      
170,526,248
      
Unspent bond proceeds - Restricted cash and investments
21,216,358
        
51,978,422
        
Deferred loss/(gain) on refunding
699,287
             
(16,156,892)
       
Capital-related liabilities:
Retention payable
(5,029,210)
         
-
                         
General Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2013
(13,985,750)
       
-
                         
Lease Revenue Bonds, Series 2007A
(12,625,000)
       
-
                         
Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2018A
(3,919,355)
         
-
                         
Advance payable
(48,256,907)
       
-
                         
CEC Streetlight Loan
(1,524,968)
         
-
                         
PG&E - Energy Efficiency Retrofit Loans
(2,163,827)
         
-
                         
Lease liability
(442,060)
            
(37,968)
              
Subscription liability
(3,650,644)
         
-
                         
Sewer Revenue Bonds, Series 2014
-
                         
(27,193,750)
       
Wastewater Revenue Bonds, Series 2019
-
                         
(275,156,242)
     
Wastewater Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2021A
-
                         
(16,216,203)
       
Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) Loan
-
                         
(295,479,360)
     
Total net investment in capital assets
412,852,193
$    
205,982,094
$    
 
 
 
Note 18 – Successor Agency Private Purpose Trust For Assets of Former Redevelopment  
 
On December 29, 2011, the California Supreme Court upheld Assembly Bill 1X 26 (“the Bill”) that provides for the 
dissolution of all redevelopment agencies in the State of California. This action impacted the reporting entity of the City 
of San Mateo that previously had reported the City’s Redevelopment Agency within the reporting entity as a blended 
component unit. The Bill provided that upon dissolution of a redevelopment agency, either the City or another unit of 
local government agree to serve as the “successor agency” to hold the assets until they are distributed to other units of 
state and local government. On January 9, 2012, the City Council elected to become the Successor Agency for the 
former Redevelopment agency in accordance with the Bill as part of City Resolution No. 2 (2012). 
 
After enactment of the law, which occurred on June 28, 2011, redevelopment agencies in the State of California were 
prohibited from entering into new projects, obligations, or commitments. Subject to the control of a newly established 
oversight board, remaining assets could only be used to pay enforceable obligations in existence at the date of 
dissolution (including the completion of any unfinished projects that were subject to legally enforceable contractual 
commitments). In accordance with the Bill, the State Controller’s Office (SCO) of the State of California reviewed the 
propriety of any transfers of assets between the San Mateo Redevelopment Agency (RDA) and the City that occurred 
after January 1, 2011. 
230 of 356

--- page 231 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
122 
Note 18 – Successor Agency Private Purpose Trust For Assets of Former Redevelopment (Continued) 
 
On October 23, 2013, the SCO issued a report stating that there were no identified unallowable transfers of assets that 
occurred during the review period between the RDA, the City, and/or any other public agencies. In April 2013, the 
California Department of Finance (DOF) issued a Finding of Completion to the Successor Agency which allowed 
proceeds ($3.3 million) from the Merged Area Tax Allocation Bonds, Series 2005A and Series 2007A, to be used to 
reimburse the City of San Mateo for construction costs of Fire Station 24 in accordance with the Cooperation Agreement 
between the City and the Successor Agency. Construction of Fire Station 24 was a use of the bond proceeds that is 
consistent with the stated purposes of the original bond covenants, and these bonds proceeds were utilized in this manner 
during fiscal year 2013-14. Once a Finding of Completion is issued by the DOF, State law (AB 1484) requires that 
successor agencies prepare a Long- Range Property Management Plan (LRPMP) for the disposition and use of the 
remaining assets of the former San Mateo Redevelopment Agency The Successor Agency submitted the required 
LRPMP, as amended and approved by the Oversight Board, to the DOF on October 17, 2013. The LRPMP addressed 
the disposition of five properties that were under title with the Successor Agency. The Successor Agency received a 
formal response from the DOF on April 28, 2014, rejecting the LRPMP as submitted. The letter outlined that public 
parking was not considered a governmental use by the State and as a result, the City needed to examine other available 
disposition options for several other remaining properties. As required, the Successor Agency submitted to the DOF on 
October 1, 2014, a revised LRPMP that was approved by the Oversight Board. In February 2015, the revised LRPMP 
was approved by the DOF after the Oversight Board approval. The actual land titles transferred to the City from the 
Successor Agency for the former San Mateo Redevelopment Agency in July 2015. The outstanding enforceable 
obligations currently only include amounts owed to holders of the Successor Agency of Redevelopment Agency Tax 
Allocation Refunding Bonds Series 2015A, Successor Agency of Redevelopment Agency Tax Allocation Refunding 
Bonds Series 2015B, and the Successor Agency of Redevelopment Agency Tax Allocation Refunding Bonds, Series 
2017A. 
 
Late in the 2016-17 fiscal year, the Successor Agency began the due diligence process to refund the 2007 Tax Allocation 
Bonds, which were eligible to be refunded as of August 1, 2017. The Agency approved the refunding and an amendment 
to the Last and Final ROPS on June 5, 2017, and the Oversight Board made the same approvals on June 7, 2017. The 
resolutions of approval were submitted to the Department of Finance in June 2018, with approval for the Oversight 
Board Resolutions coming on August 21, 2017. The Department of Finance approved the amendment to the Last and 
Final ROPS, and its confirmation that this entire transaction would be considered the first of two allowed amendments 
to the Last and Final ROPS in a letter dated December 13, 2017. 
 
 
Note 19 ‒ Changes to or within the Financial Reporting Entity 
 
The Construction Services Special Revenue Fund was previously reported as a major fund, but due to a decrease in 
activity in the Construction Services Fund, the fund no longer meets the quantitative threshold requiring the fund to be 
reported as a major fund for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024. The changes to or within the financial reporting entity 
resulted in adjustments to and restatements of beginning fund balance, as follows: 
 
June 30, 2023
Change to or with the
June 30, 2023
As Previously Reported
Financial Reporting Entity
As Restated
Governmental Funds
Major Funds:
General Fund
117,879,219
$                        
-
$                                           
117,879,219
$                        
General Capital Projects Fund
54,186,446
                            
-
                                             
54,186,446
                            
Construction Services Special Revenue Fund
32,627,760
                            
(32,627,760)
                           
-
                                             
Nonmajor Funds
58,744,866
                            
32,627,760
                            
91,372,626
                            
Total Governmental Funds
263,438,291
$                        
-
$                                           
263,438,291
$                        
 
231 of 356

--- page 232 ---
City of San Mateo 
Notes to the Basic Financial Statements (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
 
 
123 
Note 20 – Commitments and Contingencies 
 
A. Litigation 
 
The City is currently a party to various claims and legal proceedings. Although the outcome of these lawsuits is not 
presently determinable, it is management’s opinion that the ultimate liabilities, if any, resulting from such claims 
and proceedings will not materially affect the financial position of the City. 
 
B. Contingent Liabilities 
 
On March 1, 1993, the City issued Certificates of Participation in the aggregate of $10,250,000 for the benefit of 
San Mateo Community Hospital (Hospital), a California nonprofit public benefit corporation. The Hospital is not 
included in the City’s reporting entity. The City is obligated to make the purchase payments only from and to the 
extent that it receives revenue from the Hospital. They are not secured by any pledge of taxes or other revenues of 
the City. In addition, the purchase payments are insured by the Office of Statewide Health Planning and 
Development of the State of California. As of June 30, 2024, the City has not recorded revenues from the Hospital. 
 
C. Federal and State Grants 
 
The City participates in various federal and state grant programs, the principal of which are subject to program 
compliance audits pursuant to the Single Audit act as amended, and various other state grant compliance 
requirements. Accordingly, the City’s compliance with applicable grant requirements will be established at a future 
date. The amount of expenditures which may be disallowed by the granting agencies cannot be determined at this 
time, although the City anticipates such amounts, if any, will be immaterial. 
 
D. Contractual Commitments 
 
 
The City has capital contractual commitments for which funds have been encumbered as of June 30, 2024. 
Encumbrances related to capital projects are funded through the current year appropriated budget, which carries 
over to the following year. 
 
The following is a list of the commitments at June 30, 2024: 
 
Remaining
Commitment
Clean Water Program
20,431,049
$         
Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation and Improvement Project
65,856,143
           
Streetscape Improvements
7,899,698
             
Miscellaneous Projects
6,511,373
             
Total
100,698,263
$       
 
 
 
 
 
232 of 356

--- page 233 ---
124 
This page intentionally left blank. 
233 of 356

--- page 234 ---
125 
REQUIRED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
234 of 356

--- page 235 ---
126 
This page intentionally left blank.
235 of 356

--- page 236 ---
City of San Mateo 
Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited) 
Budgetary Information 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024 
 
 
127 
Budgetary Control and Budgetary Accounting 
 
Budgets are legally adopted and formal budgetary integration is employed as a management control device during the 
year for all governmental fund types. The budget is prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally 
accepted in the United States of America. From the effective date of the budget, the amounts stated therein as proposed 
expenditures become appropriations to the various City departments. 
 
The City has two-year business plan development procedures. The two-year business plan process requires that each 
department submit two one-year expenditure plans and revenue estimates to be provided to the City Council for 
approval. Only the first year of the two-year business plan will be adopted. The second year represents a projected plan 
which will be subject to amendment in the following year. As a part of the two-year business plan, the focus in year 
one is on the operating budget, while the focus on year two is the City’s CIP. 
 
In any budget cycle, to remain adaptable to changing economic and or operational conditions, the City may choose to 
develop a one-year plan instead of a two-year business plan. As a result of the immediate and severe financial impact 
of COVID-19, the City shifted to a one-year plan. With nearly two years of pandemic-related recession experience 
under its belt, the City plans on shifting back to the two-year business plan for 2022-24.  
 
The City controls its budget at the fund and department level. The City Council is the sole budget authority. Activities 
of the General Fund, Special Revenues Funds, Debt Service Funds, Proprietary Funds, and Capital Funds are included 
in the annual budget. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
236 of 356

--- page 237 ---
City of San Mateo 
Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited) (Continued) 
Budgetary Comparison Schedules – General Fund 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024 
 
128 
 
Variance with
Final Budget
Actual
Favorable/
Original
Final
Amounts
(Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Property taxes
78,022,243
$          
78,022,243
$          
78,606,527
$          
584,284
$               
Sales taxes
31,216,400
            
31,216,400
            
27,772,986
            
(3,443,414)
             
Other taxes
23,546,274
            
23,546,274
            
25,883,776
            
2,337,502
              
Licenses, building and other permits
70,000
                   
70,000
                   
97,101
                   
27,101
                   
Fines, forfeitures and penalties
1,481,000
              
1,481,000
              
3,024,160
              
1,543,160
              
Intergovernmental
2,806,774
              
2,875,359
              
3,066,664
              
191,305
                 
Charges for Services
12,848,736
            
12,848,736
            
15,607,445
            
2,758,709
              
Investment income
1,800,000
              
1,800,000
              
8,470,713
              
6,670,713
              
Parking Meter and Lease Revenue
2,040,000
              
2,040,000
              
3,199,677
              
1,159,677
              
Other revenues
3,046,563
              
3,157,403
              
4,284,746
              
1,127,343
              
Total revenues
156,877,990
          
157,057,415
          
170,013,795
          
12,956,380
            
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
 
 
 
General government:
City Council
356,898
                 
356,898
                 
319,813
                 
37,085
                   
City Manager
2,617,253
              
2,698,053
              
2,305,807
              
392,246
                 
City Clerk
862,087
                 
862,087
                 
785,263
                 
76,824
                   
City Attorney
1,212,087
              
1,212,087
              
1,265,970
              
(53,883)
                  
Finance
4,176,442
              
4,260,929
              
4,220,237
              
40,692
                   
Information technology
4,679,239
              
4,050,582
              
3,979,491
              
71,091
                   
Human Resources
2,284,816
              
2,284,816
              
2,169,288
              
115,528
                 
Community development
1,946,275
              
1,881,025
              
1,729,511
              
151,514
                 
Public safety:
Police
57,981,162
            
58,416,581
            
59,056,241
            
(639,660)
                
Fire
27,509,727
            
27,509,727
            
27,509,727
            
-
                             
Public works
12,156,247
            
12,740,919
            
10,831,430
            
1,909,489
              
Parks and recreation
21,666,029
            
21,666,029
            
21,136,909
            
529,120
                 
Library
8,925,860
              
8,925,860
              
8,619,895
              
305,965
                 
Non-departmental
9,840,263
              
9,840,263
              
9,678,356
              
161,907
                 
Capital outlay
20,865
                   
1,097,096
              
1,386,609
              
(289,513)
                
Debt service:
Principal
1,116,583
              
2,353,227
              
2,353,226
              
1
                            
Interest and fiscal charges
162,988
                 
249,630
                 
249,630
                 
-
                             
Total expenditures
157,514,821
          
160,405,809
          
157,597,403
          
2,808,406
              
REVENUES OVER 
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES
(636,831)
                
(3,348,394)
             
12,416,392
            
15,764,786
            
Budgeted Amounts
 
237 of 356

--- page 238 ---
City of San Mateo 
Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited) (Continued) 
Budgetary Comparison Schedules – General Fund (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024 
 
129 
 
Final Budget
Actual
Favorable/
Original
Final
Amounts
(Unfavorable)
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):
Proceeds from sale of property
-
                             
-
                             
21,354
                   
21,354
                   
Inception of subscription liability
-
                             
1,076,231
              
1,076,231
              
-
                             
Transfers in
7,247,433
              
7,247,433
              
7,247,433
              
-
                             
Transfers out
(19,201,887)
           
(22,301,887)
           
(20,683,288)
           
1,618,599
              
Total other financing sources (uses)
(11,954,454)
           
(13,978,223)
           
(12,338,270)
           
1,639,953
              
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
(12,591,285)
$         
(17,326,617)
$         
78,122
                   
17,404,739
$          
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year
117,879,219
          
End of year
117,957,341
$        
Budgeted Amounts
 
238 of 356

--- page 239 ---
City of San Mateo 
Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited) (Continued) 
Schedule of Changes in the Net Pension Liability and Related Ratios 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024 
 
130 
 
Total Pension Liability
2022-23
2021-22
2020-21
2019-20
2018-19
2017-18
2016-17
2015-16
2014-15
2013-14 
Service cost
5,920,696
$     
5,860,301
$     
5,417,134
$     
5,314,317
$     
5,232,210
$     
5,037,653
$     
4,518,151
$     
3,993,514
$     
3,892,876
$     
3,828,331
$     
Interest on total pension liability
21,858,537
     
20,961,702
     
20,553,253
     
19,910,417
     
19,039,419
     
18,044,112
     
17,389,674
     
17,090,620
     
16,438,129
     
15,777,588
     
Differences between expected and actual 
experience
3,251,428
       
(1,978,041)
      
(812,628)
         
2,219,628
       
4,029,100
       
1,103,888
       
(3,106,399)
      
(331,929)
         
(627,100)
         
-
                      
Changes in assumptions
-
                      
8,484,848
       
-
                      
-
                      
-
                      
(1,424,920)
      
13,781,463
     
-
                      
(3,817,336)
      
-
                      
Changes in benefit terms
425,881
          
-
                      
-
                      
-
                      
-
                      
-
                      
-
                      
-
                      
-
                      
-
                      
Benefit payments, including refunds of 
employee contributions
(18,230,555)
    
(16,833,252)
    
(15,894,895)
    
(15,050,756)
    
(13,650,253)
    
(12,925,302)
    
(12,461,817)
    
(11,970,354)
    
(11,069,836)
    
(10,298,370)
    
Net change in total pension liability
13,225,987
     
16,495,558
     
9,262,864
       
12,393,606
     
14,650,476
     
9,835,431
       
20,121,072
     
8,781,851
       
4,816,733
       
9,307,549
       
Total pension liability - beginning
319,268,003
   
302,772,445
   
293,509,581
   
281,115,975
   
266,465,499
   
256,630,068
   
236,508,996
   
227,727,145
   
222,910,412
   
213,602,863
   
Total pension liability - ending (a)
332,493,990
$ 
319,268,003
$ 
302,772,445
$ 
293,509,581
$ 
281,115,975
$ 
266,465,499
$ 
256,630,068
$ 
236,508,996
$ 
227,727,145
$ 
222,910,412
$ 
Plan fiduciary net position
Contributions - employer
10,683,495
     
9,953,731
       
8,968,085
       
8,308,013
       
7,343,013
       
6,287,676
       
5,873,612
       
5,126,750
       
4,501,438
       
3,783,964
       
Contributions - employee
2,571,915
       
2,557,263
       
2,454,476
       
2,412,286
       
2,463,688
       
2,208,675
       
2,041,614
       
1,928,776
       
1,950,191
       
1,924,145
       
Investment income (net of
administrative expenses)
14,067,212
     
(18,866,744)
    
47,026,715
     
10,192,254
     
12,797,943
     
15,561,240
     
18,815,053
     
868,395
          
3,955,299
       
26,395,339
     
Benefit payments
(18,230,555)
    
(16,833,252)
    
(15,894,895)
    
(15,050,756)
    
(13,650,253)
    
(12,925,302)
    
(12,461,817)
    
(11,970,354)
    
(11,069,836)
    
(10,298,370)
    
Other
(167,490)
         
(156,429)
         
(208,546)
         
(286,451)
         
(138,259)
         
(832,007)
         
(251,079)
         
(106,172)
         
(198,614)
         
-
                      
Net change in plan fiduciary net position
8,924,577
       
(23,345,431)
    
42,345,835
     
5,575,346
       
8,816,132
       
10,300,282
     
14,017,383
     
(4,152,605)
      
(861,522)
         
21,805,078
     
Plan fiduciary net position - beginning
227,767,747
   
251,113,178
   
208,767,343
   
203,191,997
   
194,375,865
   
184,075,583
   
170,058,200
   
174,210,805
   
175,072,327
   
153,267,249
   
Plan fiduciary net position - ending (b)
236,692,324
$ 
227,767,747
$ 
251,113,178
$ 
208,767,343
$ 
203,191,997
$ 
194,375,865
$ 
184,075,583
$ 
170,058,200
$ 
174,210,805
$ 
175,072,327
$ 
Net pension liability - ending (a)-(b)
95,801,666
$   
91,500,256
$   
51,659,267
$   
84,742,238
$   
77,923,978
$   
72,089,634
$   
72,554,485
$   
66,450,796
$   
53,516,340
$   
47,838,085
$   
Plan fiduciary net position as a 
percentage of the total pension liability
71.19%
71.34%
82.94%
71.13%
72.28%
72.95%
71.73%
71.90%
76.50%
78.54%
Covered payroll
38,292,673
$   
36,700,692
$   
36,154,902
$   
35,484,738
$   
35,068,361
$   
34,688,256
$   
31,556,856
$   
28,252,538
$   
26,888,005
$   
25,179,750
$   
Net pension liability as a 
percentage of covered payroll
250.18%
249.31%
142.88%
238.81%
222.21%
207.82%
229.92%
235.20%
199.03%
189.99%
Miscellaneous Plan
 
239 of 356

--- page 240 ---
City of San Mateo 
Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited) (Continued) 
Schedule of Changes in the Net Pension Liability and Related Ratios (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024 
 
131 
 
Total Pension Liability
2022-23
2021-22
2020-21
2019-20
2018-19
2017-18
2016-17
2015-16
2014-15
2013-14 
Service cost
5,234,236
$     
4,815,965
$     
4,521,737
$     
4,385,424
$     
4,449,133
$     
7,417,456
$     
7,342,172
$     
6,024,059
$     
5,876,118
$     
5,866,003
$     
Interest on total pension liability
32,047,044
     
31,147,674
     
30,250,946
     
29,312,094
     
28,324,725
     
27,109,372
     
25,954,748
     
25,211,819
     
24,350,391
     
23,707,497
     
Differences between expected and actual 
experience
2,427,801
       
2,215,829
       
2,818,839
       
3,435,208
       
4,999,458
       
4,313,272
       
(652,769)
         
(1,229,918)
      
(4,513,903)
      
-
                      
Changes in assumptions
-
                      
15,714,311
     
-
                      
-
                      
-
                      
(1,764,356)
      
20,868,220
     
-
                      
(5,706,829)
      
-
                      
Changes in benefit terms
206,341
          
-
                      
-
                      
-
                      
-
                      
-
                      
-
                      
-
                      
-
                      
-
                      
Benefit payments, including refunds of 
employee contributions
(26,386,401)
    
(25,158,731)
    
(23,890,302)
    
(23,017,166)
    
(21,718,515)
    
(20,369,839)
    
(19,099,929)
    
(18,246,437)
    
(17,373,723)
    
(16,930,299)
    
Net change in total pension liability
13,529,021
     
28,735,048
     
13,701,220
     
14,115,560
     
16,054,801
     
16,705,905
     
34,412,442
     
11,759,523
     
2,632,054
       
12,643,201
     
Total pension liability - beginning
472,391,862
   
443,656,814
   
429,955,594
   
415,840,034
   
399,785,233
   
383,079,328
   
348,666,886
   
336,907,363
   
334,275,309
   
321,632,108
   
Total pension liability - ending (a)
485,920,883
$ 
472,391,862
$ 
443,656,814
$ 
429,955,594
$ 
415,840,034
$ 
399,785,233
$ 
383,079,328
$ 
348,666,886
$ 
336,907,363
$ 
334,275,309
$ 
Plan fiduciary net position
Contributions - employer
16,292,527
     
14,717,993
     
13,566,455
     
12,284,260
     
14,131,640
     
13,411,260
     
13,038,623
     
10,598,960
     
9,719,832
       
8,342,908
       
Contributions - employee
1,761,725
       
1,709,770
       
1,789,979
       
1,576,589
       
2,260,834
       
2,509,623
       
2,358,978
       
2,232,023
       
2,180,686
       
1,986,679
       
Investment income (net of
administrative expenses)
17,641,331
     
(24,080,446)
    
60,169,718
     
13,065,390
     
16,597,022
     
20,229,991
     
24,165,223
     
1,116,133
       
4,925,152
       
33,561,544
     
Benefit payments
(26,386,401)
    
(25,158,731)
    
(23,890,302)
    
(23,017,166)
    
(21,718,515)
    
(20,369,839)
    
(19,099,929)
    
(18,246,437)
    
(17,373,723)
    
(16,930,299)
    
Other
(209,675)
         
(198,185)
         
(266,493)
         
(371,100)
         
(179,352)
         
(1,073,204)
      
(320,823)
         
(135,133)
         
(249,571)
         
-
                      
Net change in plan fiduciary net position
9,099,507
       
(33,009,599)
    
51,369,357
     
3,537,973
       
11,091,629
     
14,707,831
     
20,142,072
     
(4,434,454)
      
(797,624)
         
26,960,832
     
Plan fiduciary net position - beginning
285,135,370
   
318,144,969
   
266,775,612
   
263,237,639
   
252,146,010
   
237,438,179
   
217,296,107
   
221,730,561
   
222,528,185
   
195,567,353
   
Plan fiduciary net position - ending (b)
294,234,877
$ 
285,135,370
$ 
318,144,969
$ 
266,775,612
$ 
263,237,639
$ 
252,146,010
$ 
237,438,179
$ 
217,296,107
$ 
221,730,561
$ 
222,528,185
$ 
Net pension liability - ending (a)-(b)
191,686,006
$ 
187,256,492
$ 
125,511,845
$ 
163,179,982
$ 
152,602,395
$ 
147,639,223
$ 
145,641,149
$ 
131,370,779
$ 
115,176,802
$ 
111,747,124
$ 
Plan fiduciary net position as a 
percentage of the total pension liability
60.55%
60.36%
71.71%
62.05%
63.30%
63.07%
61.98%
62.32%
65.81%
66.57%
Covered payroll
17,595,173
$   
17,257,920
$   
16,442,390
$   
16,067,107
$   
22,211,287
$   
28,442,831
$   
27,088,471
$   
24,092,535
$   
22,899,741
$   
21,936,448
$   
Net pension liability as a 
percentage of covered payroll
1089.42%
1085.05%
763.34%
1015.62%
687.05%
519.07%
537.65%
545.28%
502.96%
509.41%
Safety Plan
240 of 356

--- page 241 ---
City of San Mateo 
Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited) (Continued) 
Schedule of Contributions - Pension 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024 
 
132 
 
Fiscal Year:
2023-24
2022-23
2021-22
2020-21
2019-20
Contractually determined contribution (actuarially determined)
10,792,135
$ 
10,683,495
$ 
9,953,731
$   
8,968,085
$   
8,308,301
$   
Contributions in relation to the actuarially determined contributions 
(10,792,135)
  
(10,683,495)
  
(9,953,731)
    
(8,968,085)
    
(8,308,301)
    
Contribution deficiency (excess)
-
$                  
-
$                  
-
$                  
-
$                  
-
$                  
Covered payroll
40,268,344
$ 
38,292,673
$ 
36,700,692
$ 
36,154,902
$ 
35,484,738
$ 
Contributions as a percentage of  covered payroll
26.80%
27.90%
27.12%
24.80%
23.41%
Fiscal Year:
2018-19
2017-18
2016-17
2015-16
2014-15
Contractually determined contribution (actuarially determined)
7,343,001
$   
6,287,697
$   
5,873,612
$   
5,331,714
$   
4,415,313
$   
Contributions in relation to the actuarially determined contributions 
(7,343,001)
    
(6,287,697)
    
(5,873,612)
    
(5,331,714)
    
(4,415,313)
    
Contribution deficiency (excess)
-
$                  
-
$                  
-
$                  
-
$                  
-
$                  
Covered payroll
35,068,361
$ 
34,688,256
$ 
31,556,856
$ 
28,252,538
$ 
26,888,005
$ 
Contributions as a percentage of  covered payroll
20.94%
18.13%
18.61%
18.87%
16.42%
Notes to Schedule
Methods and assumptions used to determine contribution rates for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024: 
Actuarial cost method
Entry Age Normal
Amortization method/period
For details, see June 30, 2020 Funding Valuation Report
Asset valuation method
Actuarial Value of Assets. For details, see June 30, 2020 Funding Valuation Report. 
Inflation
2.50%
Salary increases
Varies by entry age and service
Payroll growth
2.75%
Investment rate of return
7.00% net of pension plan investment and administrative expenses.
Retirement age
Mortality
Miscellaneous Plan
The actuarial methods and assumption used to set the actuarially determined contributions for Fiscal Year 2024 were derived from the June 30, 2020 
funding valuation report.
The probabilities of mortality are based on the the 2017 CalPERS Experience Study for the period from 1997 to 
2015. Mortality rates include 15 years of projected mortality improvement using 90% of Scale-MP 2016 
published by the Society of Actuaries.
The probabilities of retirement are based on the 2017 CalPERS Experience Study for the period from 1997 and 
2015.
 
241 of 356

--- page 242 ---
City of San Mateo 
Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited) (Continued) 
Schedule of Contributions – Pension (Continued) 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024 
 
133 
 
Fiscal Year:
2023-24
2022-23
2021-22
2020-21
2019-20
Contractually determined contribution (actuarially determined)
17,313,205
$ 
16,292,527
$ 
14,717,993
$ 
13,566,455
$ 
12,284,260
$ 
Contributions in relation to the actuarially determined contributions 
(17,313,205)
  
(16,292,527)
  
(14,717,993)
  
(13,566,455)
  
(12,284,260)
  
Contribution deficiency (excess)
-
$                  
-
$                  
-
$                  
-
$                  
-
$                  
Covered payroll
19,524,472
$ 
17,595,173
$ 
17,257,920
$ 
16,442,390
$ 
16,067,107
$ 
Contributions as a percentage of  covered payroll
88.67%
92.60%
85.28%
82.51%
76.46%
Fiscal Year:
2018-19
2017-18
2016-17
2015-16
2014-15
Contractually determined contribution (actuarially determined)
12,496,190
$ 
12,011,260
$ 
11,663,623
$ 
10,576,566
$ 
9,444,848
$   
Contributions in relation to the actuarially determined contributions 
(14,121,190)
  
(13,411,260)
  
(13,038,623)
  
(10,576,566)
  
(9,444,848)
    
Contribution deficiency (excess)
(1,625,000)
$  
(1,400,000)
$  
(1,375,000)
$  
-
$                  
-
$                  
Covered payroll
22,211,287
$ 
28,442,831
$ 
27,088,471
$ 
24,092,535
$ 
22,899,741
$ 
Contributions as a percentage of  covered payroll
63.58%
47.15%
48.13%
43.90%
41.24%
Notes to Schedule
Methods and assumptions used to determine contribution rates for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024: 
Actuarial cost method
Entry Age Normal
Amortization method/period
For details, see June 30, 2020 Funding Valuation Report
Asset valuation method
Actuarial Value of Assets. For details, see June 30, 2020 Funding Valuation Report. 
Inflation
2.50%
Salary increases
Varies by entry age and service
Payroll growth
2.75%
Investment rate of return
7.00% net of pension plan investment and administrative expenses.
Retirement age
Mortality
Safety Plan
The actuarial methods and assumption used to set the actuarially determined contributions for Fiscal Year 2024 were derived from the June 30, 2020 
funding valuation report.
The probabilities of retirement are based on the 2017 CalPERS Experience Study for the period from 1997 and 
2015.
The probabilities of mortality are based on the the 2017 CalPERS Experience Study for the period from 1997 to 
2015. Mortality rates include 15 years of projected mortality improvement using 90% of Scale-MP 2016 
published by the Society of Actuaries.
 
 
242 of 356

--- page 243 ---
City of San Mateo 
Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited) (Continued) 
Schedule of Changes in Total OPEB Liability and Related Ratios 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024 
 
134 
 
2024
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
2018
For the Measurement Period:
2022-2023
2021-2022
2020-2021
2019-2020
2018-2019
2017-2018
2016-20171
Total OPEB Liability:
Service Cost
563,606
$       
548,522
$       
497,327
$       
482,842
$       
692,000
$       
672,000
$       
653,000
$       
Interest on the total OPEB liability
1,079,059
      
1,048,022
      
1,144,590
      
1,113,841
      
1,338,000
      
1,286,000
      
1,240,000
      
Changes in benefit terms
-
                     
-
                     
-
                     
-
                     
-
                     
-
                     
-
                     
Difference between expected 
and actual experience
4,098,199
      
-
                     
(670,829)
        
-
                     
(3,453,000)
     
-
                     
-
                     
Changes in assumptions
(1,405,066)
     
-
                     
(86,901)
          
-
                     
(509,000)
        
-
                     
-
                     
Benefit payments
(1,112,477)
     
(1,117,596)
     
(1,130,244)
     
(1,181,000)
     
(1,174,000)
     
(1,269,000)
     
(1,178,000)
     
Net changes in Total OPEB Liability
3,223,321
      
478,948
         
(246,057)
        
415,683
         
(3,106,000)
     
689,000
         
715,000
         
Beginning of Year
17,257,574
    
16,778,626
    
17,024,683
    
16,609,000
    
19,715,000
    
19,026,000
    
18,311,000
    
End of Year
20,480,895
$  
17,257,574
$  
16,778,626
$  
17,024,683
$  
16,609,000
$  
19,715,000
$  
19,026,000
$  
Plan Fiduciary Net Position:
Employer contribution
1,193,000
$    
2,056,602
$    
1,817,000
$    
1,825,000
$    
1,950,000
$    
1,913,000
$    
1,852,000
$    
Employee contributions
-
                     
-
                     
-
                     
-
                     
-
                     
-
                     
-
                     
Net investment income
683,260
         
(1,364,786)
     
2,140,859
      
239,112
         
495,000
         
372,000
         
334,000
         
Administrative expenses
(2,754)
            
(9,587)
            
(9,723)
            
(11,386)
          
(7,000)
            
(7,000)
            
(2,000)
            
Benefit payments
(1,112,477)
     
(1,117,596)
     
(1,130,244)
     
(1,181,000)
     
(1,174,000)
     
(1,269,000)
     
(1,178,000)
     
Net changes in Fiduciary Net Position
761,029
         
(435,367)
        
2,817,892
      
871,726
         
1,264,000
      
1,009,000
      
1,006,000
      
Beginning of Year
8,830,251
      
9,265,618
      
6,447,726
      
5,576,000
      
4,312,000
      
3,303,000
      
2,297,000
      
End of Year
9,591,280
$    
8,830,251
$    
9,265,618
$    
6,447,726
$    
5,576,000
$    
4,312,000
$    
3,303,000
$    
Net OPEB Liability
10,889,615
$  
8,427,323
$    
7,513,008
$    
10,576,957
$  
11,033,000
$  
15,403,000
$  
15,723,000
$  
Fiduciary Net Position as a
percentage of Total OPEB Liability
46.83%
51.17%
55.22%
37.87%
33.57%
21.87%
17.36%
Covered Payroll
60,964,235
$  
59,443,000
$  
57,176,000
$  
55,405,000
$  
62,798,000
$  
66,133,000
$  
57,300,000
$  
Net OPEB Liability as a % of Payroll
17.86%
14.18%
13.14%
19.09%
17.57%
23.29%
27.44%
1 Historical information is presented only from the implementation year.
243 of 356

--- page 244 ---
City of San Mateo 
Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited) (Continued) 
Schedule of Contributions - OPEB 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024 
 
135 
 
2023-24
2022-23
2021-22
2020-21
2019-20
Actuarially determined contribution
1,237,000
$           
1,193,000
$           
1,319,000
$           
1,281,000
$           
1,817,000
$           
Contributions in relation to the 
actuarially determined contributions 
(1,237,000)
           
(1,193,000)
           
(2,056,602)
           
(1,817,000)
           
(1,825,000)
           
Contribution deficiency (excess)
-
$                         
-
$                         
(737,602)
$            
(536,000)
$            
(8,000)
$                
Covered-employee payroll
64,907,000
$         
60,964,235
$         
59,443,000
$         
57,176,000
$         
55,405,000
$         
Contributions as a percentage of 
covered-employee payroll
1.91%
1.94%
3.46%
3.18%
3.29%
2018-19
2017-18 
1
Actuarially determined contribution
1,764,000
$           
1,913,000
$           
Contributions in relation to the 
actuarially determined contributions 
(1,950,000)
           
(1,913,000)
           
Contribution deficiency (excess)
(186,000)
$            
-
$                         
Covered-employee payroll
62,798,000
$         
66,133,000
$         
Contributions as a percentage of 
covered-employee payroll
3.11%
2.89%
Notes to Schedule
Actuarial valuation date
6/30/2023
Actuarial cost method 
Entry-Age Normal Cost Method, Level % of pay
Amortization Period
16-year fixed period for 2022-2023
Asset valuation method 
Actuarial value of assets. Investment gains and losses spread over 5-year rolling period.
Inflation
2.50%
Investment rate of return 
6.25%
Healthcare cost trend rate
6.50% for 2025, decreasing to an ultimate rate of 3.90% in 2075
Projected salary growth and increase 
Varies by Entry Age and Service
Mortality
CalPERS 2000-2019 experience study
Mortality Improvement
Mortality projected fully generational with Scale MP-2021
1  Historical information is presented only from the implementation year.
The actuarial methods and assumptions used to set the actuarially determined contributions for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 were as follows:
244 of 356

--- page 245 ---
136 
This page intentionally left blank. 
245 of 356

--- page 246 ---
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
137
246 of 356

--- page 247 ---
This page intentionally left blank.
138
247 of 356

--- page 248 ---
Special Revenue Funds:
Police Grants and Safety Fund accounts for the revenues and expenditures of State and Federal grants such as State
Supplemental Law Enforcement Services Fund (SLESF).
Community Development Block Grant Fund (CDBG) accounts for revenue and expenditures of CDBG funds
awarded by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
HOME Special Revenue Fund accounts for revenue and expenditures of the Federal HOME grant program.
City Housing Special Revenue Fund accounts for revenues from a former Federal Rental Rehabilitation program and
loan payments from the First-Time Homebuyer program.
Low and Moderate Income Housing Special Revenue Fund accounts for revenues and expenditures of the former
Redevelopment Agency Special Revenue Fund.
Permanent Local Housing Allocation Special Revenue Fund accounts for revenues and expenditures of the
Permanent Local Housing Allocation program.
Gas Tax Fund accounts for gasoline tax revenues as required by State law.
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Fund accounts for SB1 gasoline tax revenues as required by State law.
Advance Planning Fund accounts for fees collected through building permits and expenditures for activities relating
to long term planning, including the general plan update.
Solid Waste Fund accounts for garbage collection surcharge revenues. The use of funds is restricted by City ordinance
to street cleaning and waste disposal.
Parks and Recreation accounts for the Parks and Recreation Tax, as well as the Parks and Recreation Impact and In
Lieu Fees to fund Parks and Recreation related projects through a transfer to the Capital Improvement Projects Fund.
Traffic Impact Fee accounts for traffic impact fee revenues to mitigate the cumulative impacts of new development
and to accommodate future development.
Commercial Linkage Fee accounts for commercial linkage fee to be used for housing programs including acquisition,
rehabilitation, or new construction of housing.
Construction Services Special Revenue Fund This fund accounts for revenue and expenditures of activities relating
to building permits.
Debt Service Funds:
Landfill Bonds Fund accounts for debt service payments on landfill revenue bonds (to finance expenditures related to
final closure of the former landfill site and construction of related park improvements) and post-closure monitoring
costs.
General Obligation Bonds Fund accounts for voter-approved property tax revenues and debt service payments on
general obligation bonds.
Capital Projects Funds:
2% Hotel Tax Fund accounts for the voter-approved 2% hotel tax revenue Measure C, the related transfers to the
capital improvement fund, and debt service on variable rate bonds.
Non-Major Governmental Funds
139
248 of 356

--- page 249 ---
Community
Police
Development 
Grants
Block Grant
HOME
City Housing
Fund
Fund
Fund
Fund
ASSETS
Cash and investments
244,334
$               
77,122
$                 
292,098
$               
1,143,075
$            
Restricted cash and investments held by fiscal agents
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Accounts receivable, net
155,040
                 
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Taxes receivable
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Grants receivable
207,197
                 
55,965
                   
-
                            
-
                            
Loans and notes receivable, net
-
                            
367,773
                 
216,305
                 
54,684
                   
Total assets
606,571
$               
500,860
$               
508,403
$               
1,197,759
$            
LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS
OF RESOURCES, AND
FUND BALANCES
Liabilities:
Accounts payable
49,935
                   
29,933
                   
-
                            
-
                            
Deposits payable
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Unearned revenues
25,443
                   
-
                            
300
                        
-
                            
Total liabilities
75,378
                   
29,933
                   
300
                        
-
                            
DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Unavailable revenue
-
                            
79,851
                   
24,787
                   
-
                            
Total deferred inflows of resources
-
                            
79,851
                   
24,787
                   
-
                            
Fund Balances:
Restricted
531,193
                 
391,076
                 
483,316
                 
1,197,759
              
Total fund balances
531,193
                 
391,076
                 
483,316
                 
1,197,759
              
Total liabilities, deferred inflows of
resources, and fund balances
606,571
$               
500,860
$               
508,403
$               
1,197,759
$            
(Continued)
Special Revenue
Non-Major Governmental Funds 
City of San Mateo
Combining Balance Sheet
June 30, 2024
140
249 of 356

--- page 250 ---
Permanent
Low & Moderate
Local Housing
Road Maintenance
Income Housing
Allocation
Gas Tax
and Rehabilitation
Fund
Fund
Fund
Fund
ASSETS
Cash and investments
2,447,758
$            
533,287
$               
1,518,169
$            
7,016,965
$            
Restricted cash and investments held by fiscal agents
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Accounts receivable, net
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Taxes receivable
-
                            
-
                            
250,276
                 
475,608
                 
Grants receivable
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Loans and notes receivable, net
2,881,365
              
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Total assets
5,329,123
$            
533,287
$               
1,768,445
$            
7,492,573
$            
LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS
OF RESOURCES, AND
FUND BALANCES
Liabilities:
Accounts payable
522
                        
21,792
                   
-
                            
-
                            
Deposits payable
167
                        
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Unearned revenues
-
                            
501,471
                 
-
                            
-
                            
Total liabilities
689
                        
523,263
                 
-
                            
-
                            
DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Unavailable revenue
193,230
                 
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Total deferred inflows of resources
193,230
                 
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Fund Balances:
Restricted
5,135,204
              
10,024
                   
1,768,445
              
7,492,573
              
Total fund balances
5,135,204
              
10,024
                   
1,768,445
              
7,492,573
              
Total liabilities, deferred inflows of
resources, and fund balances
5,329,123
$            
533,287
$               
1,768,445
$            
7,492,573
$            
(Continued)
Special Revenue
City of San Mateo
Combining Balance Sheet (Continued) 
Non-Major Governmental Funds
June 30, 2024
141
250 of 356

--- page 251 ---
Parks and
Traffic
Advance Planning
Solid Waste
Recreation
Impact Fee
Fund
Fund
Fund
Fund
ASSETS
Cash and investments
5,621,105
$            
15,438,919
$          
19,442,376
$          
56,420
$                 
Restricted cash and investments held by fiscal agents
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Accounts receivable, net
-
                            
353,401
                 
-
                            
-
                            
Taxes receivable
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Grants receivable
248,266
                 
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Loans and notes receivable, net
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Total assets
5,869,371
$            
15,792,320
$          
19,442,376
$          
56,420
$                 
LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS
OF RESOURCES, AND
FUND BALANCES
Liabilities:
Accounts payable
28,362
                   
1,034,468
              
-
                            
-
                            
Deposits payable
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Unearned revenues
-
                            
334,785
                 
-
                            
-
                            
Total liabilities
28,362
                   
1,369,253
              
-
                            
-
                            
DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Unavailable revenue
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Total deferred inflows of resources
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Fund Balances:
Restricted
5,841,009
              
14,423,067
            
19,442,376
            
56,420
                   
Total fund balances
5,841,009
              
14,423,067
            
19,442,376
            
56,420
                   
Total liabilities, deferred inflows of
resources, and fund balances
5,869,371
$            
15,792,320
$          
19,442,376
$          
56,420
$                 
(Continued)
Special Revenue
City of San Mateo
Combining Balance Sheet (Continued) 
Non-Major Governmental Funds
June 30, 2024
142
251 of 356

--- page 252 ---
Commercial
Construction
General
Linkage Fee
Services
Landfill Bonds
Obligation Bonds
Fund
Fund
Fund
Fund
ASSETS
Cash and investments
3,405,093
$            
28,917,294
$          
4,496,451
$            
7,593,940
$            
Restricted cash and investments held by fiscal agents
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Accounts receivable, net
-
                            
346,468
                 
-
                            
-
                            
Taxes receivable
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Grants receivable
-
                            
38,100
                   
-
                            
-
                            
Loans and notes receivable, net
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Total assets
3,405,093
$            
29,301,862
$          
4,496,451
$            
7,593,940
$            
LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS
OF RESOURCES, AND
FUND BALANCES
Liabilities:
Accounts payable
-
                            
341,662
                 
6,449
                     
2,125
                     
Deposits payable
-
                            
260,708
                 
-
                            
-
                            
Unearned revenues
-
                            
1,765,575
              
-
                            
-
                            
Total liabilities
-
                            
2,367,945
              
6,449
                     
2,125
                     
DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Unavailable revenue
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Total deferred inflows of resources
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Fund Balances:
Restricted
3,405,093
              
26,933,917
            
4,490,002
              
7,591,815
              
Total fund balances
3,405,093
              
26,933,917
            
4,490,002
              
7,591,815
              
Total liabilities, deferred inflows of
resources, and fund balances
3,405,093
$            
29,301,862
$          
4,496,451
$            
7,593,940
$            
(Continued)
City of San Mateo
Debt Service
Combining Balance Sheet (Continued) 
Non-Major Governmental Funds
June 30, 2024
Special Revenue
143
252 of 356

--- page 253 ---
Capital Projects
Total Other
2% Hotel Tax
Governmental
Fund
Funds
ASSETS
Cash and investments
80,795
$                 
98,325,201
$          
Restricted cash and investments held by fiscal agents
35,883
                   
35,883
                   
Accounts receivable, net
-
                            
854,909
                 
Taxes receivable
78,824
                   
804,708
                 
Grants receivable
-
                            
549,528
                 
Loans and notes receivable, net
-
                            
3,520,127
              
Total assets
195,502
$               
104,090,356
$        
LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS
OF RESOURCES, AND
FUND BALANCES
Liabilities:
Accounts payable
16,597
                   
1,531,845
              
Deposits payable
-
                            
260,875
                 
Unearned revenues
-
                            
2,627,574
              
Total liabilities
16,597
                   
4,420,294
              
DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Unavailable revenue
-
                            
297,868
                 
Total deferred inflows of resources
-
                            
297,868
                 
Fund Balances:
Restricted
178,905
                 
99,372,194
            
Total fund balances
178,905
                 
99,372,194
            
Total liabilities, deferred inflows of
resources, and fund balances
195,502
$               
104,090,356
$        
(Concluded)
City of San Mateo
Combining Balance Sheet (Continued) 
Non-Major Governmental Funds
June 30, 2024
144
253 of 356

--- page 254 ---
Community
Police
Development 
Grants
Block Grant
HOME
City Housing
Fund
Fund
Fund
Fund
REVENUES:
Property taxes
-
$                          
-
$                          
-
$                          
-
$                          
Other taxes
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Licenses, building and other permits
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Fines, forfeitures and penalties
218,732
                 
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Intergovernmental
959,315
                 
181,260
                 
-
                            
-
                            
Charges for services
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Investment income
15,158
                   
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Assessments and garbage collection
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Capital contributions
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Other revenues
-
                            
22,273
                   
81,646
                   
231,660
                 
Total revenues
1,193,205
              
203,533
                 
81,646
                   
231,660
                 
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
 
 
 
 
General government:
City Manager
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
City Attorney
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Information technology
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Community development
-
                            
217,619
                 
1,095
                     
-
                            
Public safety:
Police
960,900
                 
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Public works
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Non-departmental
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Capital outlay
92,713
                   
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Debt service:
Principal
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Interest and fiscal charges
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Total expenditures
1,053,613
              
217,619
                 
1,095
                     
-
                            
REVENUES OVER 
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES
139,592
                 
(14,086)
                 
80,551
                   
231,660
                 
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):
Transfers in
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Transfers out
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Total other financing sources (uses)
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES
139,592
                 
(14,086)
                 
80,551
                   
231,660
                 
FUND BALANCES:
Beginning of year, as previously reported
391,601
                 
405,162
                 
402,765
                 
966,099
                 
Change with financial reporting entity 
(major to non major fund)
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Beginning of year, as restated (Note 19)
391,601
                 
405,162
                 
402,765
                 
966,099
                 
End of year
531,193
$               
391,076
$               
483,316
$               
1,197,759
$            
(Continued)
Special Revenue
Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes in Fund Balances
City of San Mateo
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Non-Major Governmental Funds
145
254 of 356

--- page 255 ---
Permanent
Low & Moderate
Local Housing
Road Maintenance
Income Housing
Allocation
Gas Tax
and Rehabilitation
Fund
Fund
Fund
Fund
REVENUES:
Property taxes
-
$                          
-
$                          
-
$                          
-
$                          
Other taxes
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Licenses, building and other permits
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Fines, forfeitures and penalties
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Intergovernmental
-
                            
304,820
                 
2,892,843
              
2,729,016
              
Charges for services
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Investment income
162,850
                 
7,309
                     
66,100
                   
249,987
                 
Assessments and garbage collection
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Capital contributions
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Other revenues
301,593
                 
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Total revenues
464,443
                 
312,129
                 
2,958,943
              
2,979,003
              
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
 
 
 
 
General government:
City Manager
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
City Attorney
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Information technology
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Community development
40,749
                   
304,820
                 
-
                            
-
                            
Public safety:
Police
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Public works
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Non-departmental
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Capital outlay
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Debt service:
Principal
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Interest and fiscal charges
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Total expenditures
40,749
                   
304,820
                 
-
                            
-
                            
REVENUES OVER 
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES
423,694
                 
7,309
                     
2,958,943
              
2,979,003
              
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):
Transfers in
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Transfers out
-
                            
-
                            
(2,458,258)
            
(97,749)
                 
Total other financing sources (uses)
-
                            
-
                            
(2,458,258)
            
(97,749)
                 
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES
423,694
                 
7,309
                     
500,685
                 
2,881,254
              
FUND BALANCES:
Beginning of year, as previously reported
4,711,510
              
2,715
                     
1,267,760
              
4,611,319
              
Change with financial reporting entity 
(major to non major fund)
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Beginning of year, as restated (Note 19)
4,711,510
              
2,715
                     
1,267,760
              
4,611,319
              
End of year
5,135,204
$            
10,024
$                 
1,768,445
$            
7,492,573
$            
(Continued)
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes in Fund Balances (Continued)
Non-Major Governmental Funds 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Special Revenue
146
255 of 356

--- page 256 ---
Parks and
Traffic
Advance Planning
Solid Waste
Recreation
Impact Fee
Fund
Fund
Fund
Fund
REVENUES:
Property taxes
-
$                          
-
$                          
-
$                          
-
$                          
Other taxes
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Licenses, building and other permits
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Fines, forfeitures and penalties
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Intergovernmental
368,936
                 
105,841
                 
-
                            
-
                            
Charges for services
1,744,137
              
1,080,976
              
-
                            
-
                            
Investment income
255,174
                 
706,390
                 
729,113
                 
14,508
                   
Assessments and garbage collection
-
                            
1,750,309
              
159,539
                 
-
                            
Capital contributions
-
                            
600,000
                 
7,317,600
              
773,139
                 
Other revenues
-
                            
50,312
                   
-
                            
-
                            
Total revenues
2,368,247
              
4,293,828
              
8,206,252
              
787,647
                 
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
 
 
 
 
General government:
City Manager
9,850
                     
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
City Attorney
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Information technology
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Community development
1,622,193
              
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Public safety:
Police
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Public works
-
                            
3,592,804
              
-
                            
-
                            
Non-departmental
-
                            
-
                            
16,881
                   
-
                            
Capital outlay
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Debt service:
Principal
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Interest and fiscal charges
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Total expenditures
1,632,043
              
3,592,804
              
16,881
                   
-
                            
REVENUES OVER 
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES
736,204
                 
701,024
                 
8,189,371
              
787,647
                 
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):
Transfers in
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Transfers out
-
                            
(437,480)
               
(1,032,914)
            
(1,046,931)
            
Total other financing sources (uses)
-
                            
(437,480)
               
(1,032,914)
            
(1,046,931)
            
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES
736,204
                 
263,544
                 
7,156,457
              
(259,284)
               
FUND BALANCES:
Beginning of year, as previously reported
5,104,805
              
14,159,523
            
12,285,919
            
315,704
                 
Change with financial reporting entity 
(major to non major fund)
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Beginning of year, as restated (Note 19)
5,104,805
              
14,159,523
            
12,285,919
            
315,704
                 
End of year
5,841,009
$            
14,423,067
$          
19,442,376
$          
56,420
$                 
(Continued)
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes in Fund Balances (Continued)
Non-Major Governmental Funds 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Special Revenue
147
256 of 356

--- page 257 ---
Commercial
Construction
General
Linkage Fee
Services
Landfill Bonds
Obligation Bonds
Fund
Fund
Fund
Fund
REVENUES:
Property taxes
-
$                          
-
$                          
-
$                          
2,724,717
$            
Other taxes
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Licenses, building and other permits
-
                            
7,248,749
              
-
                            
-
                            
Fines, forfeitures and penalties
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Intergovernmental
-
                            
38,100
                   
-
                            
-
                            
Charges for services
-
                            
2,746,219
              
-
                            
-
                            
Investment income
164,327
                 
1,608,951
              
210,231
                 
314,808
                 
Assessments and garbage collection
-
                            
-
                            
450,000
                 
-
                            
Capital contributions
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Other revenues
-
                            
55
                          
-
                            
-
                            
Total revenues
164,327
                 
11,642,074
            
660,231
                 
3,039,525
              
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
 
 
 
 
General government:
City Manager
-
                            
115,164
                 
-
                            
-
                            
City Attorney
-
                            
229,587
                 
-
                            
-
                            
Information technology
-
                            
123,895
                 
-
                            
-
                            
Community development
-
                            
9,946,353
              
-
                            
-
                            
Public safety:
Police
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Public works
-
                            
1,094,733
              
88,049
                   
-
                            
Non-departmental
5,085
                     
-
                            
-
                            
122,851
                 
Capital outlay
-
                            
25,855
                   
-
                            
-
                            
Debt service:
Principal
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
2,485,000
              
Interest and fiscal charges
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
2,193,200
              
Total expenditures
5,085
                     
11,535,587
            
88,049
                   
4,801,051
              
REVENUES OVER 
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES
159,242
                 
106,487
                 
572,182
                 
(1,761,526)
            
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):
Transfers in
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
2,691,887
              
Transfers out
-
                            
(5,800,330)
            
(35,947)
                 
-
                            
Total other financing sources (uses)
-
                            
(5,800,330)
            
(35,947)
                 
2,691,887
              
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES
159,242
                 
(5,693,843)
            
536,235
                 
930,361
                 
FUND BALANCES:
Beginning of year, as previously reported
3,245,851
              
-
                            
3,953,767
              
6,661,454
              
Change with financial reporting entity 
(major to non major fund)
-
                            
32,627,760
            
-
                            
-
                            
Beginning of year, as restated (Note 19)
3,245,851
              
32,627,760
            
3,953,767
              
6,661,454
              
End of year
3,405,093
$            
26,933,917
$          
4,490,002
$            
7,591,815
$            
(Continued)
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes in Fund Balances (Continued)
Non-Major Governmental Funds 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Debt Service
Special Revenue
148
257 of 356

--- page 258 ---
Capital Projects
Total Other
2% Hotel Tax
Governmental
Fund
Funds
REVENUES:
Property taxes
-
$                          
2,724,717
$            
Other taxes
887,679
                 
887,679
                 
Licenses, building and other permits
-
                            
7,248,749
              
Fines, forfeitures and penalties
-
                            
218,732
                 
Intergovernmental
-
                            
7,580,131
              
Charges for services
-
                            
5,571,332
              
Investment income
13,554
                   
4,518,460
              
Assessments and garbage collection
-
                            
2,359,848
              
Capital contributions
-
                            
8,690,739
              
Other revenues
-
                            
687,539
                 
Total revenues
901,233
                 
40,487,926
            
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
 
General government:
City Manager
-
                            
125,014
                 
City Attorney
-
                            
229,587
                 
Information technology
-
                            
123,895
                 
Community development
-
                            
12,132,829
            
Public safety:
Police
-
                            
960,900
                 
Public works
-
                            
4,775,586
              
Non-departmental
144,933
                 
289,750
                 
Capital outlay
-
                            
118,568
                 
Debt service:
Principal
510,000
                 
2,995,000
              
Interest and fiscal charges
326,307
                 
2,519,507
              
Total expenditures
981,240
                 
24,270,636
            
REVENUES OVER 
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES
(80,007)
                 
16,217,290
            
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):
Transfers in
-
                            
2,691,887
              
Transfers out
-
                            
(10,909,609)
          
Total other financing sources (uses)
-
                            
(8,217,722)
            
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES
(80,007)
                 
7,999,568
              
FUND BALANCES:
Beginning of year, as previously reported
258,912
                 
58,744,866
            
Change with financial reporting entity 
(major to non major fund)
-
                            
32,627,760
            
Beginning of year, as restated (Note 19)
258,912
                 
91,372,626
            
End of year
178,905
$               
99,372,194
$          
(Concluded)
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes in Fund Balances (Continued)
Non-Major Governmental Funds 
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
149
258 of 356

--- page 259 ---
Variance with
Final Budget
Actual
Favorable/
Original
Final
Amounts
(Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Fines, forfeitures and penalties
-
$                          
-
$                          
218,732
$               
218,732
$               
Intergovernmental
563,539
                 
2,330,054
              
959,315
                 
(1,370,739)
            
Investment income
6,000
                     
6,000
                     
15,158
                   
9,158
                     
Total revenues
569,539
                 
2,336,054
              
1,193,205
              
(1,142,849)
            
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
 
 
 
Public safety:
Police
863,856
                 
2,485,658
              
960,900
                 
1,524,758
              
Capital outlay
-
                            
144,713
                 
92,713
                   
52,000
                   
Total expenditures
863,856
                 
2,630,371
              
1,053,613
              
1,576,758
              
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
(294,317)
$             
(294,317)
$             
139,592
                 
433,909
$               
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year
391,601
                 
End of year
531,193
$               
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Police Grants Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Budgeted Amounts
150
259 of 356

--- page 260 ---
Variance with
Final Budget
Actual
Favorable/
Original
Final
Amounts
(Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Intergovernmental
696,000
$               
696,000
$               
181,260
$               
(514,740)
$             
Other revenues
8,000
                     
8,000
                     
22,273
                   
14,273
                   
Total revenues
704,000
                 
704,000
                 
203,533
                 
(500,467)
               
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
 
 
 
Community development
252,899
                 
252,899
                 
217,619
                 
35,280
                   
Total expenditures
252,899
                 
252,899
                 
217,619
                 
35,280
                   
REVENUES OVER 
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES
451,101
                 
451,101
                 
(14,086)
                 
(535,747)
               
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):
Transfers out
(610,000)
               
(610,000)
               
-
                            
610,000
                 
Total other financing sources (uses)
(610,000)
               
(610,000)
               
-
                            
610,000
                 
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
(158,899)
$             
(158,899)
$             
(14,086)
                 
74,253
$                 
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year
405,162
                 
End of year
391,076
$               
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Community Development Block Grant Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Budgeted Amounts
151
260 of 356

--- page 261 ---
Variance with
Final Budget
Actual
Favorable/
Original
Final
Amounts
(Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Other revenues
15,000
$                 
15,000
$                 
81,646
$                 
66,646
$                 
Total revenues
15,000
                   
15,000
                   
81,646
                   
66,646
                   
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
 
 
 
Community development
10,000
                   
10,000
                   
1,095
                     
8,905
                     
Total expenditures
10,000
                   
10,000
                   
1,095
                     
8,905
                     
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
5,000
$                   
5,000
$                   
80,551
                   
75,551
$                 
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year
402,765
                 
End of year
483,316
$               
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
HOME Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Budgeted Amounts
152
261 of 356

--- page 262 ---
Variance with
Final Budget
Actual
Favorable/
Original
Final
Amounts
(Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Investment income
18,000
$                 
18,000
$                 
-
$                          
(18,000)
$               
Other revenues
16,000
                   
16,000
                   
231,660
                 
215,660
                 
Total revenues
34,000
                   
34,000
                   
231,660
                 
197,660
                 
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
 
 
 
Community development
198,500
                 
198,500
                 
-
                            
198,500
                 
Total expenditures
198,500
                 
198,500
                 
-
                            
198,500
                 
REVENUES OVER 
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES
(164,500)
               
(164,500)
               
231,660
                 
(840)
                      
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
(164,500)
$             
(164,500)
$             
231,660
                 
396,160
$               
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year
966,099
                 
End of year
1,197,759
$            
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
City Housing Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Budgeted Amounts
153
262 of 356

--- page 263 ---
Variance with
Final Budget
Actual
Favorable/
Original
Final
Amounts
(Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Investment income
73,000
$                 
73,000
$                 
162,850
$               
89,850
$                 
Other revenues
214,000
                 
214,000
                 
301,593
                 
87,593
                   
Total revenues
287,000
                 
287,000
                 
464,443
                 
177,443
                 
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
 
 
 
Community development
146,399
                 
146,399
                 
40,749
                   
105,650
                 
Total expenditures
146,399
                 
146,399
                 
40,749
                   
105,650
                 
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
140,601
$               
140,601
$               
423,694
                 
71,793
$                 
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year
4,711,510
              
End of year
5,135,204
$            
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Low and Moderate Income Housing Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Budgeted Amounts
154
263 of 356

--- page 264 ---
Variance with
Final Budget
Actual
Favorable/
Original
Final
Amounts
(Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Intergovernmental
500,000
$               
1,084,800
$            
304,820
$               
(779,980)
$             
Investment income
-
                            
-
                            
7,309
                     
7,309
                     
Total revenues
500,000
                 
1,084,800
              
312,129
                 
(772,671)
               
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
 
 
 
Community development
500,000
                 
1,267,460
              
304,820
                 
962,640
                 
Total expenditures
500,000
                 
1,267,460
              
304,820
                 
962,640
                 
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
-
$                          
(182,660)
$             
7,309
                     
189,969
$               
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year
2,715
                     
End of year
10,024
$                 
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Permanent Local Housing Allocation Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Budgeted Amounts
155
264 of 356

--- page 265 ---
Variance with
Final Budget
Actual
Favorable/
Original
Final
Amounts
(Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Intergovernmental
3,018,448
$            
3,018,448
$            
2,892,843
$            
(125,605)
$             
Investment income
12,000
                   
12,000
                   
66,100
                   
54,100
                   
Total revenues
3,030,448
              
3,030,448
              
2,958,943
              
(71,505)
                 
OTHER FINANCING (USES):
Transfers out
(2,267,500)
            
(2,267,500)
            
(2,458,258)
            
(190,758)
               
Total other financing (uses)
(2,267,500)
            
(2,267,500)
            
(2,458,258)
            
(190,758)
               
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
762,948
$               
762,948
$               
500,685
                 
(262,263)
$             
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year
1,267,760
              
End of year
1,768,445
$            
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Gas Tax Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Budgeted Amounts
156
265 of 356

--- page 266 ---
Variance with
Final Budget
Actual
Favorable/
Original
Final
Amounts
(Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Intergovernmental
2,614,190
$            
2,614,190
$            
2,729,016
$            
114,826
$               
Investment income
17,000
                   
17,000
                   
249,987
                 
232,987
                 
Total revenues
2,631,190
              
2,631,190
              
2,979,003
              
347,813
                 
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):
Transfers out
(2,000,000)
            
(2,000,000)
            
(97,749)
                 
1,902,251
              
Total other financing sources (uses)
(2,000,000)
            
(2,000,000)
            
(97,749)
                 
1,902,251
              
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
631,190
$               
631,190
$               
2,881,254
              
2,250,064
$            
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year
4,611,319
              
End of year
7,492,573
$            
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Budgeted Amounts
157
266 of 356

--- page 267 ---
Variance with
Final Budget
Actual
Favorable/
Original
Final
Amounts
(Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Intergovernmental
50,000
$                 
50,000
$                 
368,936
$               
318,936
$               
Charges for services
1,700,000
              
1,700,000
              
1,744,137
              
44,137
                   
Investment income
92,000
                   
92,000
                   
255,174
                 
163,174
                 
Total revenues
1,842,000
              
1,842,000
              
2,368,247
              
526,247
                 
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
 
 
 
General government:
City Manager
-
                            
166,300
                 
9,850
                     
156,450
                 
Community development
1,422,665
              
1,422,665
              
1,622,193
              
(199,528)
               
Total expenditures
1,422,665
              
1,588,965
              
1,632,043
              
(43,078)
                 
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
419,335
$               
253,035
$               
736,204
                 
569,325
$               
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year
5,104,805
              
End of year
5,841,009
$            
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Advance Planning Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Budgeted Amounts
158
267 of 356

--- page 268 ---
Variance with
Final Budget
Actual
Favorable/
Original
Final
Amounts
(Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Fines, forfeitures and penalties
400,000
$               
400,000
$               
-
$                          
(400,000)
$             
Intergovernmental
214,000
                 
214,000
                 
105,841
                 
(108,159)
               
Charges for services
750,000
                 
750,000
                 
1,080,976
              
330,976
                 
Investment income
160,000
                 
160,000
                 
706,390
                 
546,390
                 
Assessments and garbage collection
1,076,160
              
1,076,160
              
1,750,309
              
674,149
                 
Capital contributions
750,000
                 
750,000
                 
600,000
                 
(150,000)
               
Other revenues
82,000
                   
82,000
                   
50,312
                   
(31,688)
                 
Total revenues
3,432,160
              
3,432,160
              
4,293,828
              
861,668
                 
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
 
 
 
Public works
2,848,189
              
3,848,189
              
3,592,804
              
255,385
                 
Capital outlay
410,000
                 
410,000
                 
-
                            
410,000
                 
Total expenditures
3,258,189
              
4,258,189
              
3,592,804
              
665,385
                 
REVENUES OVER 
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES
173,971
                 
(826,029)
               
701,024
                 
196,283
                 
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):
Transfers out
(750,000)
               
(750,000)
               
(437,480)
               
312,520
                 
Total other financing sources (uses)
(750,000)
               
(750,000)
               
(437,480)
               
312,520
                 
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
(576,029)
$             
(1,576,029)
$          
263,544
                 
508,803
$               
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year
14,159,523
            
End of year
14,423,067
$          
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Solid Waste Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Budgeted Amounts
159
268 of 356

--- page 269 ---
Variance with
Final Budget
Actual
Favorable/
Original
Final
Amounts
(Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Investment income
187,000
$               
187,000
$               
729,113
$               
542,113
$               
Assessments and garbage collection
-
                            
-
                            
159,539
                 
159,539
                 
Capital contributions
10,780,136
            
10,780,136
            
7,317,600
              
(3,462,536)
            
Total revenues
10,967,136
            
10,967,136
            
8,206,252
              
(2,760,884)
            
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
 
 
 
Non-departmental
16,882
                   
16,882
                   
16,881
                   
1
                            
Total expenditures
16,882
                   
16,882
                   
16,881
                   
1
                            
REVENUES OVER 
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES
10,950,254
            
10,950,254
            
8,189,371
              
(2,760,885)
            
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):
Transfers out
(3,050,000)
            
(3,050,000)
            
(1,032,914)
            
2,017,086
              
Total other financing sources (uses)
(3,050,000)
            
(3,050,000)
            
(1,032,914)
            
2,017,086
              
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
7,900,254
$            
7,900,254
$            
7,156,457
              
(743,799)
$             
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year
12,285,919
            
End of year
19,442,376
$          
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Parks and Recreation Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Budgeted Amounts
160
269 of 356

--- page 270 ---
Variance with
Final Budget
Actual
Favorable/
Original
Final
Amounts
(Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Investment income
32,000
$                 
32,000
$                 
14,508
$                 
(17,492)
$               
Capital contributions
2,505,482
              
2,505,482
              
773,139
                 
(1,732,343)
            
Total revenues
2,537,482
              
2,537,482
              
787,647
                 
(1,749,835)
            
OTHER FINANCING (USES):
Transfers out
(49,860)
                 
(49,860)
                 
(1,046,931)
            
(997,071)
               
Total other financing (uses)
(49,860)
                 
(49,860)
                 
(1,046,931)
            
(997,071)
               
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
2,487,622
$            
2,487,622
$            
(259,284)
               
(2,746,906)
$          
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year
315,704
                 
End of year
56,420
$                 
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Traffic Impact Fee Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Budgeted Amounts
161
270 of 356

--- page 271 ---
Variance with
Final Budget
Actual
Favorable/
Original
Final
Amounts
(Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Investment income
125,000
$               
125,000
$               
164,327
$               
39,327
$                 
Total revenues
125,000
                 
125,000
                 
164,327
                 
39,327
                   
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
 
 
 
Non-departmental
5,085
                     
5,085
                     
5,085
                     
-
                            
Total expenditures
5,085
                     
5,085
                     
5,085
                     
-
                            
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
119,915
$               
119,915
$               
159,242
                 
39,327
$                 
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year
3,245,851
              
End of year
3,405,093
$            
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Commercial Linkage Fee Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Budgeted Amounts
162
271 of 356

--- page 272 ---
Variance with
Final Budget
Actual
Favorable/
Original
Final
Amounts
(Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Licenses, building and other permits
7,185,100
$            
7,185,100
$            
7,248,749
$            
63,649
$                 
Intergovernmental
-
                            
-
                            
38,100
                   
38,100
                   
Charges for services
1,156,000
              
1,156,000
              
2,746,219
              
1,590,219
              
Investment income
479,000
                 
479,000
                 
1,608,951
              
1,129,951
              
Other revenues
-
                            
-
                            
55
                          
55
                          
Total revenues
8,820,100
              
8,820,100
              
11,642,074
            
2,821,974
              
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
 
 
 
General government:
City Manager
112,698
                 
112,698
                 
115,164
                 
(2,466)
                   
City Attorney
193,156
                 
193,156
                 
229,587
                 
(36,431)
                 
Information technology
118,258
                 
118,258
                 
123,895
                 
(5,637)
                   
Community development
10,973,556
            
10,973,556
            
9,946,353
              
1,027,203
              
Public works
1,061,401
              
1,061,401
              
1,094,733
              
(33,332)
                 
Capital outlay
-
                            
-
                            
25,855
                   
(25,855)
                 
Total expenditures
12,459,069
            
12,459,069
            
11,535,587
            
923,482
                 
REVENUES OVER 
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES
(3,638,969)
            
(3,638,969)
            
106,487
                 
1,898,492
              
OTHER FINANCING (USES):
Transfers out
(5,525,933)
            
(5,525,933)
            
(5,800,330)
            
(274,397)
               
Total other financing (uses)
(5,525,933)
            
(5,525,933)
            
(5,800,330)
            
(274,397)
               
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
(9,164,902)
$          
(9,164,902)
$          
(5,693,843)
            
1,624,095
$            
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year
32,627,760
            
End of year
26,933,917
$          
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Construction Services Special Revenue Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Budgeted Amounts
163
272 of 356

--- page 273 ---
Variance with
Final Budget
Actual
Favorable/
Original
Final
Amounts
(Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Investment income
55,000
$                 
55,000
$                 
210,231
$               
155,231
$               
Assessments and garbage collection
600,000
                 
600,000
                 
450,000
                 
(150,000)
               
Total revenues
655,000
                 
655,000
                 
660,231
                 
5,231
                     
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
 
 
 
Public works
96,586
                   
96,586
                   
88,049
                   
8,537
                     
Total expenditures
96,586
                   
96,586
                   
88,049
                   
8,537
                     
REVENUES OVER 
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES
558,414
                 
558,414
                 
572,182
                 
(3,306)
                   
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES):
Transfers out
-
                            
-
                            
(35,947)
                 
(35,947)
                 
Total other financing sources (uses)
-
                            
-
                            
(35,947)
                 
(35,947)
                 
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
558,414
$               
558,414
$               
536,235
                 
(22,179)
$               
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year
3,953,767
              
End of year
4,490,002
$            
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
Landfill Bonds Debt Service Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Budgeted Amounts
164
273 of 356

--- page 274 ---
Variance with
Final Budget
Actual
Favorable/
Original
Final
Amounts
(Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Property taxes
2,049,050
$            
2,049,050
$            
2,724,717
$            
675,667
$               
Investment income
99,000
                   
99,000
                   
314,808
                 
215,808
                 
Total revenues
2,148,050
              
2,148,050
              
3,039,525
              
891,475
                 
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
 
 
 
Non-departmental
121,477
                 
121,477
                 
122,851
                 
(1,374)
                   
Debt service:
Principal
2,485,000
              
2,485,000
              
2,485,000
              
-
                            
Interest and fiscal charges
2,193,200
              
2,193,200
              
2,193,200
              
-
                            
Total expenditures
4,799,677
              
4,799,677
              
4,801,051
              
(1,374)
                   
REVENUES OVER 
(UNDER) EXPENDITURES
(2,651,627)
            
(2,651,627)
            
(1,761,526)
            
890,101
                 
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES:
Transfers in
2,691,887
              
2,691,887
              
2,691,887
              
-
                            
Total other financing sources
2,691,887
              
2,691,887
              
2,691,887
              
-
                            
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
40,260
$                 
40,260
$                 
930,361
                 
890,101
$               
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year
6,661,454
              
End of year
7,591,815
$            
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
General Obligation Bonds Debt Service Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Budgeted Amounts
165
274 of 356

--- page 275 ---
Variance with
Final Budget
Actual
Favorable/
Original
Final
Amounts
(Unfavorable)
REVENUES:
Other taxes
1,000,000
$            
1,000,000
$            
887,679
$               
(112,321)
$             
Investment income
-
                            
-
                            
13,554
                   
13,554
                   
Total revenues
1,000,000
              
1,000,000
              
901,233
                 
(98,767)
                 
EXPENDITURES:
Current:
 
 
 
Non-departmental
138,889
                 
138,889
                 
144,933
                 
(6,044)
                   
Debt service:
Principal
510,000
                 
510,000
                 
510,000
                 
-
                            
Interest and fiscal charges
328,000
                 
328,000
                 
326,307
                 
1,693
                     
Total expenditures
976,889
                 
976,889
                 
981,240
                 
(4,351)
                   
NET CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
23,111
$                 
23,111
$                 
(80,007)
                 
(103,118)
$             
FUND BALANCE:
Beginning of year
258,912
                 
End of year
178,905
$               
City of San Mateo
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance - Budget and Actual
2% Hotel Tax Capital Projects Fund
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
Budgeted Amounts
166
275 of 356

--- page 276 ---
Internal Service Funds
Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund accounts for all workers' compensation self-insurance activities.
Dental Self-Insurance Fund accounts for the City's self-insurance activities related to the dental plan the City provides
to its employees.
Benefits Fund accounts for charges to other funds and expenditures relating to employee benefits other than those
accounted for in the Worker Compensation and Dental Self-Insurance Funds.
Comprehensive Liability Insurance Fund accounts for the general liability self-insurance transactions.
Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund accounts for rental charges to City departments and the replacement of
vehicles and equipment.
Fleet and Building Maintenance Fund accounts for the charges to user departments and the expenses relating to the
maintenance of City vehicles and buildings.
167
276 of 356

--- page 277 ---
Workers'
Comprehensive
Compensation
Dental
Liability
Insurance
Self-Insurance
Benefits
Insurance
ASSETS
Current assets:
 
 
Cash and investments
21,130,235
$          
839,569
$               
486,131
$               
1,872,569
$            
Accounts receivable, net
-
                            
-
                            
723,787
                 
-
                            
Prepaid items, inventory, and deposits
395,000
                 
147,000
                 
-
                            
30,000
                   
Total current assets
21,525,235
            
986,569
                 
1,209,918
              
1,902,569
              
Noncurrent assets:
Capital assets:
Depreciable, net
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Total capital assets
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
     Total noncurrent assets
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
         Total assets
21,525,235
            
986,569
                 
1,209,918
              
1,902,569
              
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable
72,609
                   
51,371
                   
12,568
                   
285,996
                 
Deposits payable
-
                            
-
                            
113,014
                 
-
                            
Claims payable - due within one year
2,743,000
              
-
                            
-
                            
1,301,000
              
Total current liabilities
2,815,609
              
51,371
                   
125,582
                 
1,586,996
              
Noncurrent liabilities:
Claims payable - due in more than one year
11,115,000
            
-
                            
-
                            
2,739,000
              
Total noncurrent liabilities
11,115,000
            
-
                            
-
                            
2,739,000
              
Total liabilities
13,930,609
            
51,371
                   
125,582
                 
4,325,996
              
NET POSITION
Net investment in capital assets
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Unrestricted (deficit)
7,594,626
              
935,198
                 
1,084,336
              
(2,423,427)
            
Total net position
7,594,626
$            
935,198
$               
1,084,336
$            
(2,423,427)
$          
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Net Position
All Internal Service Funds
June 30, 2024
168
277 of 356

--- page 278 ---
Vehicle and
Fleet and
Equipment
Building
Replacement
Maintenance
Total
ASSETS
Current assets:
Cash and investments
11,178,759
$          
434,887
$               
35,942,150
$          
Accounts receivable, net
-
                            
-
                            
723,787
                 
Prepaid items, inventory, and deposits
-
                            
32,174
                   
604,174
                 
Total current assets
11,178,759
            
467,061
                 
37,270,111
            
Noncurrent assets:
Capital assets:
Depreciable, net
7,046,991
              
70,655
                   
7,117,646
              
Total capital assets
7,046,991
              
70,655
                   
7,117,646
              
     Total noncurrent assets
7,046,991
              
70,655
                   
7,117,646
              
         Total assets
18,225,750
            
537,716
                 
44,387,757
            
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable
99,490
                   
342,040
                 
864,074
                 
Deposits payable
-
                            
-
                            
113,014
                 
Claims payable - due within one year
-
                            
-
                            
4,044,000
              
Total current liabilities
99,490
                   
342,040
                 
5,021,088
              
Noncurrent liabilities:
Claims payable - due in more than one year
-
                            
-
                            
13,854,000
            
Total noncurrent liabilities
-
                            
-
                            
13,854,000
            
Total liabilities
99,490
                   
342,040
                 
18,875,088
            
NET POSITION
Net investment in capital assets
7,046,991
              
70,655
                   
7,117,646
              
Unrestricted (deficit)
11,079,269
            
125,021
                 
18,395,023
            
Total net position
18,126,260
$          
195,676
$               
25,512,669
$          
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Net Position (Continued)
All Internal Service Funds
June 30, 2024
169
278 of 356

--- page 279 ---
Workers'
Comprehensive
Compensation
Dental
Liability
Insurance
Self-Insurance
Benefits
Insurance
OPERATING REVENUES:
Charges for services
4,383,314
$            
752,013
$               
44,516,220
$          
2,793,000
$            
Other
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
10,571,570
            
Total operating revenues
4,383,314
              
752,013
                 
44,516,220
            
13,364,570
            
OPERATING EXPENSES:
Personnel services
402,930
                 
-
                            
43,874,661
            
149,250
                 
Materials and supplies
3,755,628
              
815,539
                 
111,499
                 
4,652,903
              
Depreciation and amortization
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Total operating expenses
4,158,558
              
815,539
                 
43,986,160
            
4,802,153
              
OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)
224,756
                 
(63,526)
                 
530,060
                 
8,562,417
              
NONOPERATING REVENUES (EXPENSES):
Investment income
979,227
                 
-
                            
-
                            
71,605
                   
Gain on sale of capital assets
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Total nonoperating revenues (expenses)
979,227
                 
-
                            
-
                            
71,605
                   
INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE TRANSFERS
1,203,983
              
(63,526)
                 
530,060
                 
8,634,022
              
TRANSFERS:
Transfers in
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
1,000,000
              
Transfers out
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
Total transfers
-
                            
-
                            
-
                            
1,000,000
              
Changes in net position
1,203,983
              
(63,526)
                 
530,060
                 
9,634,022
              
NET POSITION:
Beginning of year
6,390,643
              
998,724
                 
554,276
                 
(12,057,449)
          
End of year
7,594,626
$            
935,198
$               
1,084,336
$            
(2,423,427)
$          
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position
All Internal Service Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
170
279 of 356

--- page 280 ---
Vehicle &
Fleet &
Equipment
Building
Replacement
Maintenance
Total
OPERATING REVENUES:
Charges for services
1,897,309
$            
5,411,666
$            
59,753,522
$          
Other
2,112
                     
6,090
                     
10,579,772
            
Total operating revenues
1,899,421
              
5,417,756
              
70,333,294
            
OPERATING EXPENSES:
Personnel services
-
                            
1,697,768
              
46,124,609
            
Materials and supplies
1,444,599
              
4,358,304
              
15,138,472
            
Depreciation and amortization
1,266,565
              
4,486
                     
1,271,051
              
Total operating expenses
2,711,164
              
6,060,558
              
62,534,132
            
OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)
(811,743)
               
(642,802)
               
7,799,162
              
NONOPERATING REVENUES (EXPENSES):
Investment income
597,750
                 
-
                            
1,648,582
              
Gain on sale of capital assets
74,946
                   
-
                            
74,946
                   
Total nonoperating revenues (expenses)
672,696
                 
-
                            
1,723,528
              
INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE TRANSFERS
(139,047)
               
(642,802)
               
9,522,690
              
TRANSFERS:
Transfers in
410,000
                 
-
                            
1,410,000
              
Transfers out
(913,548)
               
-
                            
(913,548)
               
Total transfers
(503,548)
               
-
                            
496,452
                 
Changes in net position
(642,595)
               
(642,802)
               
10,019,142
            
NET POSITION:
Beginning of year
18,768,855
            
838,478
                 
15,493,527
            
End of year
18,126,260
$          
195,676
$               
25,512,669
$          
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position (Continued)
All Internal Service Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
171
280 of 356

--- page 281 ---
Workers'
Comprehensive
Compensation
Dental
Liability
Insurance
Self-Insurance
Benefits
Insurance
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Cash received from customers
4,383,314
$         
752,013
$            
44,520,910
$       
2,793,000
$         
Cash payments to suppliers for goods and services
(1,949,815)
          
(766,234)
             
39,249
                
(15,110,533)
        
Cash payments to employees for services
(402,930)
             
-
                          
(43,986,160)
        
(149,250)
             
Cash received from others
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
10,571,570
         
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
2,030,569
           
(14,221)
               
573,999
              
(1,895,213)
          
CASH FLOWS FROM NONCAPITAL  
FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
Interfund borrowing (lending)
87,868
                
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Repayment of interfund borrowing (lending)
-
                          
-
                          
(87,868)
               
-
                          
Transfers in
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
1,000,000
           
Transfers out
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Net cash provided by (used in)
noncapital financing activities
87,868
                
-
                          
(87,868)
               
1,000,000
           
CASH FLOWS FROM CAPITAL AND 
RELATED FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
Proceeds from sale of capital assets
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Acquisition of capital assets, net
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Net cash (used in) capital and
related financing activities
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Investment income received
979,227
              
-
                          
-
                          
71,605
                
Net cash (used in) investing activities
979,227
              
-
                          
-
                          
71,605
                
Net change in cash and cash equivalents
3,097,664
           
(14,221)
               
486,131
              
(823,608)
             
CASH AND CASH  EQUIVALENTS:
Beginning of year
18,032,571
         
853,790
              
-
                          
2,696,177
           
End of year
21,130,235
$       
839,569
$            
486,131
$            
1,872,569
$         
(Continued)
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Cash Flows
All Internal Service Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
172
281 of 356

--- page 282 ---
Workers'
Comprehensive
Compensation
Dental
Liability
Insurance
Self-Insurance
Benefits
Insurance
RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) 
 
 
TO NET CASH PROVIDED BY (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Operating income (loss)
224,756
$            
(63,526)
$             
530,060
$            
8,562,417
$         
Adjustments to reconcile operating income (loss)  to net
cash provided by (used in) operating activities:
Depreciation
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Changes in operating assets and liabilities, and
deferred outflows and inflows of resources:
Accounts receivable, net
-
                          
-
                          
4,690
                  
-
                          
Accounts payable
47,813
                
49,305
                
(8,651)
                 
112,370
              
Deposits payable
-
                          
-
                          
47,900
                
-
                          
Claims payable
1,758,000
           
-
                          
-
                          
(10,570,000)
        
Total adjustments
1,805,813
           
49,305
                
43,939
                
(10,457,630)
        
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
2,030,569
$         
(14,221)
$             
573,999
$            
(1,895,213)
$        
(Continued)
All Internal Service Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Cash Flows (Continued)
173
282 of 356

--- page 283 ---
Vehicle &
Fleet &
Equipment
Building
Replacement
Maintenance
Total
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Cash received from customers
1,897,309
$         
5,413,226
$         
59,759,772
$       
Cash payments to suppliers for goods and services
(1,685,361)
          
(4,282,707)
          
(23,755,401)
        
Cash payments to employees for services
-
                          
(1,697,768)
          
(46,236,108)
        
Cash received from others
2,112
                  
6,090
                  
10,579,772
         
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
214,060
              
(561,159)
             
348,035
              
CASH FLOWS FROM NONCAPITAL  
FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
Interfund borrowing (lending)
-
                          
-
                          
87,868
                
Repayment of interfund borrowing (lending)
-
                          
-
                          
(87,868)
               
Transfers in
410,000
              
-
                          
1,410,000
           
Transfers out
(913,548)
             
-
                          
(913,548)
             
Net cash provided by
noncapital financing activities
(503,548)
             
-
                          
496,452
              
CASH FLOWS FROM CAPITAL AND 
RELATED FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
Proceeds from sale of capital assets
95,291
                
-
                          
95,291
                
Acquisition of capital assets, net
(2,219,724)
          
(27,765)
               
(2,247,489)
          
Net cash (used in) capital and
related financing activities
(2,124,433)
          
(27,765)
               
(2,152,198)
          
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Investment income received
597,750
              
-
                          
1,648,582
           
Net cash (used in) investing activities
597,750
              
-
                          
1,648,582
           
Net change in cash and cash equivalents
(1,816,171)
          
(588,924)
             
340,871
              
CASH AND CASH  EQUIVALENTS:
Beginning of year
12,994,930
         
1,023,811
           
35,601,279
         
End of year
11,178,759
$       
434,887
$            
35,942,150
$       
 
(Continued)
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Cash Flows (Continued)
All Internal Service Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
174
283 of 356

--- page 284 ---
Vehicle &
Fleet &
Equipment
Building
Replacement
Maintenance
Total
RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) 
TO NET CASH PROVIDED BY (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Operating income (loss)
(811,743)
$           
(642,802)
$           
7,799,162
$         
Adjustments to reconcile operating income (loss)  to net
cash provided by (used in) operating activities:
Depreciation
1,266,565
           
4,486
                  
1,271,051
           
Changes in operating assets and liabilities, and
deferred outflows and inflows of resources:
Accounts receivable, net
-
                          
1,560
                  
6,250
                  
Accounts payable
(240,762)
             
75,597
                
35,672
                
Deposits payable
-
                          
-
                          
47,900
                
Claims payable
-
                          
-
                          
(8,812,000)
          
Total adjustments
1,025,803
           
81,643
                
(7,451,127)
          
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
214,060
$            
(561,159)
$           
348,035
$            
(Concluded)
Combining Statement of Cash Flows (Continued)
All Internal Service Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
City of San Mateo
175
284 of 356

--- page 285 ---
This page intentionally left blank.
176
285 of 356

--- page 286 ---
Fiduciary Funds - Custodial Funds
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department Custodial Fund, accounts for assets that the City is holding for the San
Mateo Consolidated Fire Department.
CFD 2008-1 Custodial Fund , accounts for assets that the City is holding for the Community Facilities District No. 2008-
01 for which the City is acting as an agent.
Other Custodial Fund , accounts for assets that the City is holding for other entities for which the City is acting as an
agent.
177
286 of 356

--- page 287 ---
This page intentionally left blank.
178
287 of 356

--- page 288 ---
San Mateo
Consolidated
Fire Department
CFD 2008-1
Other
Total
ASSETS
Cash and investments
71,087
$                 
3,391,597
$            
76,028
$                 
3,538,712
$            
Restricted cash and investments
-
                            
3,579,205
              
-
                            
3,579,205
              
Total assets
71,087
                   
6,970,802
              
76,028
                   
7,117,917
              
LIABILITIES
Accounts payable
71,087
                   
-
                            
76,028
                   
147,115
                 
Total liabilities
71,087
                   
-
                            
76,028
                   
147,115
                 
NET POSITION
Restricted for:
Individuals, organizations, and other governments
-
                            
6,970,802
              
-
                            
6,970,802
              
Total Net Position
-
$                          
6,970,802
$            
-
$                          
6,970,802
$            
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Fiduciary Net Position
Fiduciary Funds - Custodial Funds
June 30, 2024
179
288 of 356

--- page 289 ---
San Mateo
Consolidated
Fire Department
CFD 2008-1
Other
Total
ADDITIONS:
Fee collections for other governments
254,597
$               
-
$                          
165,537
$               
420,134
$               
Special Assessments for other governments
-
                            
4,940,334
              
-
                            
4,940,334
              
Investment income
-
                            
181,313
                 
-
                            
181,313
                 
Total additions
254,597
                 
5,121,647
              
165,537
                 
5,541,781
              
DEDUCTIONS:
Administration
-
                            
16,750
                   
57,607
                   
74,357
                   
Payments on conduit bonds - interest
-
                            
3,724,713
              
-
                            
3,724,713
              
Payments on conduit bonds - principal
254,597
                 
995,000
                 
107,930
                 
1,357,527
              
Total deductions
254,597
                 
4,736,463
              
165,537
                 
5,156,597
              
Changes in net position
-
                            
385,184
                 
-
                            
385,184
                 
NET POSITION:
Beginning of year
-
                            
6,585,618
              
-
                            
6,585,618
              
End of year
-
$                          
6,970,802
$            
-
$                          
6,970,802
$            
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Changes in Fiduciary Net Position
Fiduciary Funds - Custodial Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
180
289 of 356

--- page 290 ---
Fiduciary Funds - Private Purpose Trust Funds
RDA Obligation Retirement Fund (RORF) , established in accordance with AB 1X 26, accounts for Redevelopment
Property Tax Trust Fund amounts received after January 31, 2012 to pay for Recognized Obligation Payment Schedule
(ROPS) items.
Successor Agency to RDA Merged Area Fund , a sub-fund of the RORF, accounts for assets and liabilities of the former
RDA merged project area which were transferred to the Successor Agency upon RDA dissolution to be used for ROPS
payments or redistributed to taxing entities.
Successor Agency to RDA Housing Fund , a sub-fund of the RORF, accounts for assets and liabilities of the former
RDA housing set aside transferred to the Successor Agency upon RDA dissolution to be used for ROPS payments or
redistributed to taxing entities.
181
290 of 356

--- page 291 ---
This page intentionally left blank.
182
291 of 356

--- page 292 ---
RDA
Successor Agency
Successor Agency
Retirement
to RDA Merged
to RDA
Obligation
Area
Housing
Total
ASSETS
Cash and investments
5,175,557
$             
-
$                           
-
$                           
5,175,557
$             
Restricted cash and investments
-
                             
1
                             
-
                             
1
                             
Total assets
5,175,557
               
1
                             
-
                             
5,175,558
               
DEFERRED OUTFLOWS
OF RESOURCES
Deferred loss on refunding
-
                             
113,013
                  
-
                             
113,013
                  
Total deferred outflows of resources
-
                             
113,013
                  
-
                             
113,013
                  
LIABILITIES
Accounts payable
-
                             
3,188
                      
-
                             
3,188
                      
Interest payable
-
                             
710,209
                  
-
                             
710,209
                  
Long-term debt - due within one year
-
                             
4,270,000
               
-
                             
4,270,000
               
Long-term debt - due in more than one year
-
                             
33,100,992
             
-
                             
33,100,992
             
Total liabilities
-
                             
38,084,389
             
-
                             
38,084,389
             
NET POSITION
Held in trust for dissolution of RDA
5,175,557
               
(37,971,375)
           
-
                             
(32,795,818)
           
Total Net Position (deficit)
5,175,557
$             
(37,971,375)
$         
-
$                           
(32,795,818)
$         
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Fiduciary Net Position
Fiduciary Funds - Private Purpose Trust Funds
June 30, 2024
183
292 of 356

--- page 293 ---
RDA
Successor Agency
Successor Agency
Retirement
to RDA Merged
to RDA
Obligation
Area
Housing
Total
ADDITIONS:
Investment income
1,084
$                     
-
$                             
-
$                             
1,084
$                     
RDA property tax trust fund distribution
99,450
                     
5,885,050
                
10,000
                     
5,994,500
                
Total additions
100,534
                   
5,885,050
                
10,000
                     
5,995,584
                
DEDUCTIONS:
Administration
-
                               
13,188
                     
10,000
                     
23,188
                     
Interest expense
-
                               
1,252,679
                
-
                               
1,252,679
                
Total deductions
-
                               
1,265,867
                
10,000
                     
1,275,867
                
Changes in net position
100,534
                   
4,619,183
                
-
                               
4,719,717
                
NET POSITION:
Beginning of year
5,075,023
                
(42,590,558)
             
-
                               
(37,515,535)
             
End of year
5,175,557
$              
(37,971,375)
$           
-
$                             
(32,795,818)
$           
City of San Mateo
Combining Statement of Changes in Fiduciary Net Position
Fiduciary Funds - Private Purpose Trust Funds
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
184
293 of 356

--- page 294 ---
Schedules of Assessments and Investment Fees and Related Expenditures
South Bayfront Levee Improvement Project accounts for the revenues and expenditures of assessments imposed to
finance the South Bayfront Levee Improvement Project.
South Trunk Sewer Impact Fee accounts for revenue and expenditures related to the development impact fee for the
South Trunk area sewer improvements. The fee is imposed on all development and redevelopment served by the South
Trunk line.
Child Care Development Impact Fee accounts for revenues and expenditures related to the child care development fee
to fund child care facilities necessitated by commercial development.
Tree Impact Fee accounts for revenues and expenditures related to the tree replacement fee established on all
development requiring approval of planning application, except for single-family dwelling design review applications,
for the removal of existing trees on development sites.
Cable Television Impact Fee accounts for revenues and expenditures related to the cable television impact fee to fund
public access community television.
185
294 of 356

--- page 295 ---
This page intentionally left blank.
186
295 of 356

--- page 296 ---
South
Bayfront
Total
Levee
South
Child Care
Cable
Assessments
Improvement
Trunk Sewer
Development
Tree
Television
and Impact
Project
Impact Fee
Impact Fee
Impact Fee
Impact Fee
Fees
REVENUES:
Assessments
537,912
$         
-
$                     
-
$                     
-
$                     
-
$                     
537,912
$         
Impact fees
-
                       
771,455
           
9,548
               
201,997
           
91,216
             
1,074,216
        
Interest income
-
                       
38,699
             
71,251
             
7,426
               
40,413
             
157,789
           
Total revenues
537,912
           
810,154
           
80,799
             
209,423
           
131,629
           
1,769,917
        
EXPENDITURES:
Capital outlay
7,733
               
-
                       
430,000
           
171,986
           
36,850
             
646,569
           
Debt service
385,754
           
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
385,754
           
Total expenditures
393,487
           
-
                       
430,000
           
171,986
           
36,850
             
1,032,323
        
UNEXPENDED BALANCES:
Beginning of year
2,300,064
        
55,469
             
2,211,422
        
1,094,906
        
1,257,627
        
6,919,488
        
End of year
2,444,489
$      
865,623
$         
1,862,221
$      
1,132,343
$      
1,352,406
$      
7,657,082
$      
City of San Mateo
General Capital Projects Fund
Schedule of Assessments and Impact Fees and Related Expenditures
For the Year Ended June 30, 2024
187
296 of 356

--- page 297 ---
This page intentionally left blank.
188
297 of 356

--- page 298 ---
STATISTICAL SECTION
189
298 of 356

--- page 299 ---
This page intentionally left blank.
190
299 of 356

--- page 300 ---
Contents
Page
Financial Trends
192
These schedules contain trend information to help the reader understand how the City's financial
performance and well-being have changed over time.
Revenue Capacity
204
These schedules contain information to help the reader assess the City's most significant local revenues
source: property tax
Debt Capacity
210
These schedules present information to help the reader assess the affordability of the City's current levels
of outstanding debt and the City's ability to issue additional debt in the future.
Demographic and Economic Information
215
These schedules offer demographic and economic indicators to help the reader understand the
environment within which the city's financial activities take place.
Operating Information
216
These schedules contain service and infrastructure data to help the reader to understand how the
information in the City's financial reports relates to the services the city provides and the activities it
performs.
This part of the City of San Mateo's Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports presents detailed information as a context
for understanding what the information in the financial statements, note disclosures, and required supplementary
information says about the City's overall financial condition.
STATISTICAL SECTION (Unaudited)
191
300 of 356

--- page 301 ---
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
Governmental Activities
Net investment in capital assets
338,597,493
$     
348,551,145
$     
361,295,211
$     
373,263,037
$     
374,808,638
$     
Restricted 
35,940,430
         
42,628,946
         
43,004,559
         
56,180,410
         
56,993,128
         
Unrestricted (deficit)
(56,568,094)
        
(25,485,083)
        
(16,647,454)
        
(27,694,719)
        
(16,582,840)
        
Total Governmental Activities Net Position
317,969,829
$     
365,695,008
$     
387,652,316
$     
401,748,728
$     
415,218,926
$     
Business-Type Activities
Net investment in capital assets
78,438,576
$       
83,893,024
$       
112,410,305
$     
136,901,535
$     
137,297,898
$     
Restricted
11,056,422
         
9,457,948
           
17,976,147
         
3,019,163
           
1,127,518
           
Unrestricted (deficit)
10,218,009
         
20,791,916
         
(7,096,918)
          
(2,674,687)
          
24,223,141
         
Total Business-Type Activities Net Position
99,713,007
$       
114,142,888
$     
123,289,534
$     
137,246,011
$     
162,648,557
$     
Primary Government
Net investment in capital assets
417,036,069
$     
432,444,169
$     
473,705,516
$     
510,164,572
$     
512,106,536
$     
Restricted
46,996,852
         
52,086,894
         
60,980,706
         
59,199,573
         
58,120,646
         
Unrestricted (deficit)
(46,350,085)
        
(4,693,167)
          
(23,744,372)
        
(30,369,406)
        
7,640,301
           
Total Primary Government Net Position
417,682,836
$     
479,837,896
$     
510,941,850
$     
538,994,739
$     
577,867,483
$     
Notes:
(1) Significant variance in restricted and unrestricted net position was due to implementation of GASB 65, 68 and 71 in FY2015
(2) Unrestricted net position included adjustment to reflect implementation of GASB 75 in FY2018
Source:  City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports
FISCAL YEAR
City of San Mateo
Net Position by Component
Last Ten Fiscal Years
(accrual basis of accounting)
(2)
(1)
192
301 of 356

--- page 302 ---
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
Governmental Activities
Net investment in capital assets
380,800,232
$     
392,070,528
$     
397,780,546
$     
399,733,773
$     
412,852,193
$     
Restricted 
58,615,106
         
38,577,326
         
45,323,758
         
108,343,099
       
111,215,112
       
Unrestricted (deficit)
(22,039,326)
        
(11,392,141)
        
6,233,558
           
(56,670,151)
        
(53,862,081)
        
Total Governmental Activities Net Position
417,376,012
$     
419,255,713
$     
449,337,862
$     
451,406,721
$     
470,205,224
$     
Business-Type Activities
Net investment in capital assets
154,095,718
$     
168,133,572
$     
135,235,423
$     
79,620,512
$       
154,003,672
$     
Restricted
1,143,604
           
1,143,852
           
33,375,069
         
92,240,461
         
51,978,422
         
Unrestricted (deficit)
39,117,768
         
58,834,359
         
109,975,918
       
164,051,166
       
184,575,261
       
Total Business-Type Activities Net Position
194,357,090
$     
228,111,783
$     
278,586,410
$     
335,912,139
$     
390,557,355
$     
Primary Government
Net investment in capital assets
534,895,950
$     
560,204,100
$     
533,015,969
$     
479,354,285
$     
566,855,865
$     
Restricted
59,758,710
         
39,721,178
         
78,698,827
         
200,583,560
       
163,193,534
       
Unrestricted (deficit)
17,078,442
         
47,442,218
         
116,209,476
       
107,381,015
       
130,713,180
       
Total Primary Government Net Position
611,733,102
$     
647,367,496
$     
727,924,272
$     
787,318,860
$     
860,762,579
$     
Notes:
(1) Unrestricted net position included adjustment to reflect implementation of GASB 96 in FY2023
(2) Unrestricted net position included adjustment to reflect implementation of GASB 75 in FY2018
Source:  City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports
FISCAL YEAR
City of San Mateo
Net Position by Component (Continued)
Last Ten Fiscal Years
(accrual basis of accounting)
(1)
193
302 of 356

--- page 303 ---
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
Expenses
Governmental activities:
General government
13,531,819
$       
13,408,222
$       
15,288,834
$       
16,253,149
$       
22,520,951
$       
Community development
11,520,058
         
8,615,056
           
9,218,215
           
8,968,176
           
10,689,333
         
Public safety
54,499,943
         
56,518,491
         
66,098,015
         
78,040,802
         
72,388,649
         
Public works
17,572,481
         
19,194,348
         
19,454,397
         
22,900,784
         
25,294,822
         
Parks and recreation
14,604,719
         
14,715,076
         
17,688,663
         
17,723,370
         
18,589,445
         
Golf
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
2,413,326
           
Library
7,456,042
           
7,481,649
           
8,640,943
           
8,409,588
           
9,088,444
           
Interest and fiscal charges
1,687,938
           
1,563,149
           
1,603,120
           
1,282,632
           
1,545,181
           
Total governmental activities expenses
120,873,000
       
121,495,991
       
137,992,187
       
153,578,501
       
162,530,151
       
Business-type activities:
Sewer
25,394,787
         
29,446,279
         
27,650,895
         
28,541,139
         
30,979,524
         
Golf
2,599,156
           
2,925,638
           
2,699,895
           
3,119,828
           
-
                          
Total business-type activities expenses
27,993,943
         
32,371,917
         
30,350,790
         
31,660,967
         
30,979,524
         
Total primary government expenses
148,866,943
$     
153,867,908
$     
168,342,977
$     
185,239,468
$     
193,509,675
$     
Program Revenues
Governmental activities:
Charges for Services:
General government
7,746,426
$         
8,864,516
$         
4,460,496
$         
4,761,038
$         
4,850,552
$         
Community development
11,841,340
         
13,040,363
         
15,504,626
         
18,647,276
         
11,962,685
         
Public safety
4,748,609
           
4,963,005
           
5,460,041
           
5,859,462
           
4,873,368
           
Public works
3,380,143
           
3,204,712
           
7,078,959
           
8,816,371
           
7,908,636
           
Parks and recreation
3,917,392
           
4,026,981
           
5,733,587
           
4,416,286
           
4,427,073
           
Golf
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
2,169,365
           
Library
366,424
              
376,099
              
384,442
              
425,676
              
418,247
              
Operating Grants and Contributions
4,659,218
           
4,920,003
           
4,855,791
           
6,527,822
           
7,091,483
           
Capital Grants and Contributions
5,932,115
           
17,519,113
         
7,404,767
           
12,254,621
         
11,235,278
         
Total governmental activities program revenues
42,591,667
         
56,914,792
         
50,882,709
         
61,708,552
         
54,936,687
         
Business-type activities:
Charges for Services:
Sewer
32,202,568
         
31,349,390
         
31,790,037
         
41,737,548
         
51,981,922
         
Golf
2,179,638
           
2,259,273
           
2,155,822
           
2,361,164
           
-
                          
Capital Grants and Contributions
1,418,940
           
9,648,484
           
4,559,627
           
2,628,892
           
1,231,712
           
Total business-type activities program revenues
35,801,146
         
43,257,147
         
38,505,486
         
46,727,604
         
53,213,634
         
Total primary government program revenues
78,392,813
$       
100,171,939
$     
89,388,195
$       
108,436,156
$     
108,150,321
$     
Net (Expense)/Revenue
Governmental activities
(78,281,333)
$      
(64,581,199)
$      
(87,109,478)
$      
(91,869,949)
$      
(107,593,464)
$    
Business-type activities
7,807,203
           
10,885,230
         
8,154,696
           
15,066,637
         
22,234,110
         
Total primary government net expense
(70,474,130)
$      
(53,695,969)
$      
(78,954,782)
$      
(76,803,312)
$      
(85,359,354)
$      
Source:  City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports
City of San Mateo
Changes in Net Position
Last Ten Fiscal Years
(accrual basis of accounting)
FISCAL YEAR
194
303 of 356

--- page 304 ---
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
Expenses
Governmental activities:
General government
24,844,817
$       
22,566,708
$       
23,459,894
$       
28,633,018
$       
27,773,248
$       
Community development
11,079,458
         
11,362,295
         
20,402,608
         
16,765,437
         
14,269,937
         
Public safety
84,968,332
         
88,274,410
         
66,993,033
         
94,267,213
         
92,903,796
         
Public works
26,353,672
         
22,560,152
         
21,712,677
         
28,996,164
         
31,088,776
         
Parks and recreation
18,827,857
         
17,581,661
         
16,497,215
         
20,923,090
         
24,598,631
         
Golf
2,363,389
           
2,406,028
           
2,368,719
           
2,505,214
           
-
                          
Library
9,546,338
           
8,797,338
           
8,678,548
           
9,421,539
           
10,598,001
         
Interest and fiscal charges
1,967,739
           
2,674,930
           
2,447,923
           
2,494,361
           
2,407,407
           
Total governmental activities expenses
179,951,602
       
176,223,522
       
162,560,617
       
204,006,036
       
203,639,796
       
Business-type activities:
Sewer
39,159,040
         
40,969,271
         
41,868,215
         
41,833,626
         
45,059,021
         
Golf
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Total business-type activities expenses
39,159,040
         
40,969,271
         
41,868,215
         
41,833,626
         
45,059,021
         
Total primary government expenses
219,110,642
$     
217,192,793
$     
204,428,832
$     
245,839,662
$     
248,698,817
$     
Program Revenues
Governmental activities:
Charges for Services:
General government
4,196,601
$         
6,305,379
$         
7,754,336
$         
6,404,657
$         
6,755,941
$         
Community development
11,367,968
         
11,277,683
         
10,420,500
         
13,320,594
         
12,636,122
         
Public safety
6,334,734
           
2,402,026
           
2,179,473
           
3,166,616
           
4,132,856
           
Public works
10,140,356
         
7,117,981
           
8,860,490
           
7,540,418
           
8,506,152
           
Parks and recreation
3,158,517
           
1,010,881
           
2,921,700
           
3,512,400
           
7,662,922
           
Golf
2,206,781
           
3,129,139
           
3,529,967
           
3,105,744
           
-
                          
Library
395,001
              
270,043
              
314,628
              
318,769
              
381,127
              
Operating Grants and Contributions
7,613,730
           
19,005,126
         
16,397,540
         
9,841,723
           
11,003,457
         
Capital Grants and Contributions
10,814,961
         
9,354,286
           
9,085,257
           
5,390,848
           
13,247,974
         
Total governmental activities program revenues
56,228,649
         
59,872,544
         
61,463,891
         
52,601,769
         
64,326,551
         
Business-type activities:
Charges for Services:
Sewer
58,741,767
         
67,962,290
         
71,491,119
         
77,987,677
         
81,333,394
         
Golf
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Capital Grants and Contributions
7,290,894
           
5,931,349
           
21,355,870
         
15,487,045
         
8,179,541
           
Total business-type activities program revenues
66,032,661
         
73,893,639
         
92,846,989
         
93,474,722
         
89,512,935
         
Total primary government program revenues
122,261,310
$     
133,766,183
$     
154,310,880
$     
146,076,491
$     
153,839,486
$     
Net (Expense)/Revenue
Governmental activities
(123,722,953)
$    
(116,350,978)
$    
(101,096,726)
$    
(151,404,267)
$    
(139,313,245)
$    
Business-type activities
26,873,621
         
32,924,368
         
50,978,774
         
51,641,096
         
44,453,914
         
Total primary government net expense
(96,849,332)
$      
(83,426,610)
$      
(50,117,952)
$      
(99,763,171)
$      
(94,859,331)
$      
Source:  City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports
City of San Mateo
Changes in Net Position (Continued)
Last Ten Fiscal Years
(accrual basis of accounting)
FISCAL YEAR
195
304 of 356

--- page 305 ---
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
General Revenues and Other Changes in Net Position
Government activities:
Taxes
Property taxes
45,514,243
$       
49,821,722
$       
52,989,559
$       
58,137,331
$       
63,899,034
$       
Sales taxes
26,406,209
         
27,458,762
         
26,001,431
         
26,313,958
         
28,606,235
         
Property transfer tax
10,636,846
         
9,894,291
           
12,179,016
         
11,778,074
         
13,918,129
         
Other taxes
13,764,540
         
14,503,661
         
14,536,828
         
14,777,396
         
14,947,968
         
Franchise taxes
3,049,847
           
3,143,082
           
3,142,369
           
3,208,096
           
3,134,906
           
Motor vehicle taxes
61,024
                
416,222
              
55,990
                
64,442
                
-
                          
Investment income (loss)
1,167,612
           
2,469,425
           
978,899
              
1,521,257
           
7,180,752
           
Other - GASB 68 Adjustment
-
                          
344,425
              
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Other revenues
-
                          
-
                          
32,694
                
66,005
                
42,081
                
Transfers
(2,501,852)
          
(3,020,196)
          
(850,000)
             
(525,000)
             
(1,788,676)
          
-
                          
7,274,984
           
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
(8,876,767)
          
Total Governmental activities:
98,098,469
         
112,306,378
       
109,066,786
       
115,341,559
       
121,063,662
       
Business-type activities:
Investment income
250,398
              
524,455
              
141,950
              
189,713
              
1,379,769
           
Gain (Loss) on sale of capital assets
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Miscellaneous revenues
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Transfers
2,501,852
           
3,020,196
           
850,000
              
525,000
              
1,788,676
           
Total business-type activities
2,752,250
           
3,544,651
           
991,950
              
714,713
              
3,168,445
           
Total primary government
100,850,719
$     
115,851,029
$     
110,058,736
$     
116,056,272
$     
124,232,107
$     
Change in Net Position
Governmental activities
19,817,136
$       
47,725,179
$       
21,957,308
$       
23,471,610
$       
13,470,198
$       
Business-type activities
10,559,453
         
14,429,881
         
9,146,646
           
15,781,350
         
25,402,555
         
Total primary government
30,376,589
$       
62,155,060
$       
31,103,954
$       
39,252,960
$       
38,872,753
$       
Source:  City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports
Last Ten Fiscal Years
(accrual basis of accounting)
Special Item: Transfer of fire activities
Special Item: Transfer of properties from 
Successor Agency
FISCAL YEAR
City of San Mateo
Changes in Net Position (Continued)
196
305 of 356

--- page 306 ---
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
General Revenues and Other Changes in Net Position
Government activities:
Taxes
Property taxes
67,106,048
$       
66,631,563
$       
74,796,572
$       
83,298,878
$       
81,331,244
$       
Sales taxes
26,958,595
         
27,948,874
         
33,408,980
         
34,283,362
         
32,380,449
         
Property transfer tax
9,137,370
           
11,783,952
         
14,344,715
         
7,418,099
           
8,634,762
           
Other taxes
11,173,135
         
7,439,757
           
11,445,378
         
16,356,131
         
14,976,125
         
Franchise taxes
3,170,550
           
3,033,639
           
3,117,140
           
3,627,304
           
3,403,374
           
Motor vehicle taxes
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Investment income (loss)
7,259,659
           
488,757
              
(6,317,294)
          
4,554,367
           
15,375,641
         
Other - GASB 68 Adjustment
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Other revenues
64,312
                
904,137
              
383,384
              
2,140,985
           
2,010,153
           
Transfers
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
1,794,000
           
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Total Governmental activities:
124,869,669
       
118,230,679
       
131,178,875
       
153,473,126
       
158,111,748
       
Business-type activities:
Investment income
5,845,282
           
851,242
              
(602,477)
             
7,176,108
           
9,342,754
           
Gain (Loss) on sale of capital assets
-
                          
(22,292)
               
98,330
                
(101,329)
             
-
                          
Miscellaneous revenues
-
                          
1,375
                  
-
                          
403,854
              
848,548
              
Transfers
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
(1,794,000)
          
-
                          
Total business-type activities
5,845,282
           
830,325
              
(504,147)
             
5,684,633
           
10,191,302
         
Total primary government
130,714,951
$     
119,061,004
$     
130,674,728
$     
159,157,759
$     
168,303,050
$     
Change in Net Position
Governmental activities
1,146,716
$         
118,230,679
$     
30,082,149
$       
2,068,859
$         
18,798,503
$       
Business-type activities
32,718,903
         
830,325
              
50,474,627
         
57,325,729
         
54,645,216
         
Total primary government
33,865,619
$       
119,061,004
$     
80,556,776
$       
59,394,588
$       
73,443,719
$       
Source:  City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports
Special Item: Transfer of properties from 
Successor Agency
Special Item: Transfer of fire activities
City of San Mateo
Changes in Net Position (Continued)
Last Ten Fiscal Years
(accrual basis of accounting)
FISCAL YEAR
197
306 of 356

--- page 307 ---
This page intentionally left blank.
198
307 of 356

--- page 308 ---
Property
Fiscal
Property
Sales
Transfer
Franchise
Other 
Year
Tax
Tax
Tax
Tax
Taxes
Total
2015
45,514,243
$           
26,406,209
$        
10,636,846
$        
3,049,847
$         
13,825,564
$        
99,432,709
$         
2016
49,821,722
             
27,458,762
          
9,894,291
            
3,143,082
           
14,919,883
          
105,237,740
         
2017
52,989,559
             
26,001,431
          
12,179,016
          
3,142,369
           
14,592,818
          
108,905,193
         
2018
58,137,331
             
26,313,958
          
11,778,074
          
3,208,096
           
14,841,838
          
114,279,297
         
2019
63,899,034
             
28,606,235
          
13,918,129
          
3,134,906
           
14,947,968
          
124,506,272
         
2020
67,106,048
             
26,958,595
          
9,137,370
            
3,170,550
           
11,173,135
          
117,545,698
         
2021
66,631,563
             
27,948,874
          
11,783,952
          
3,033,639
           
7,439,757
            
116,837,785
         
2022
74,796,572
             
33,408,980
          
14,344,715
          
3,117,140
           
11,445,378
          
137,112,785
         
2023
83,298,878
             
34,283,362
          
7,418,099
            
3,627,304
           
16,356,131
          
144,983,774
         
2024
81,331,244
             
32,380,449
          
8,634,762
            
3,403,374
           
14,976,125
          
140,725,954
         
Source:  City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports
(accrual basis of accounting)
Last Ten Fiscal Years
Governmental Activities Tax Revenues By Source
City of San Mateo
199
308 of 356

--- page 309 ---
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
General Fund
Nonspendable fund balance
133,030
$            
93,968
$              
146,668
$            
1,365,781
$         
1,138,335
$         
Restricted fund balance
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Committed fund balance
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
1,310,590
           
2,382,262
           
Assigned fund balance
696,064
              
653,902
              
1,151,152
           
983,063
              
708,521
              
Unassigned fund balance
46,814,928
         
57,850,140
         
65,807,692
         
71,844,796
         
83,958,171
         
Total General Fund
47,644,022
$       
58,598,010
$       
67,105,512
$       
75,504,230
$       
88,187,289
$       
All Other Governmental Funds
Nonspendable fund balance
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
4,206
$                
-
$                        
Restricted fund balance
36,477,074
         
42,628,946
         
42,468,316
         
54,997,971
         
55,140,874
         
Committed fund balance
51,111,814
         
63,490,793
         
66,261,696
         
66,085,830
         
70,357,550
         
Assigned fund balance
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Unassigned fund balance (deficit)
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
Total all other Governmental Funds
87,588,888
$       
106,119,739
$     
108,730,012
$     
121,088,007
$     
125,498,424
$     
    
Source:  City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports
FISCAL YEAR
City of San Mateo
Fund Balances of Governmental Funds
Last Ten Fiscal Years
(modified accrual basis of accounting)
200
309 of 356

--- page 310 ---
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
General Fund
Nonspendable fund balance
801,607
$            
329,193
$            
357,245
$            
284,396
$            
304,759
$            
Restricted fund balance
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
599,425
              
550,000
              
Committed fund balance
1,370,873
           
1,370,873
           
16,294,331
         
-
                          
-
                          
Assigned fund balance
670,609
              
-
                          
1,097,978
           
9,304,494
           
11,443,226
         
Unassigned fund balance
82,719,189
         
90,258,189
         
93,702,456
         
107,690,904
       
105,659,356
       
Total General Fund
85,562,278
$       
91,958,255
$       
111,452,010
$     
117,879,219
$     
117,957,341
$     
All Other Governmental Funds
Nonspendable fund balance
-
$                        
-
$                        
9,000
$                
-
$                        
-
$                        
Restricted fund balance
107,881,837
       
71,611,963
         
77,144,719
         
128,358,271
       
131,583,602
       
Committed fund balance
75,420,851
         
93,093,835
         
65,881,489
         
-
                          
-
                          
Assigned fund balance
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
17,200,801
         
26,595,669
         
Unassigned fund balance (deficit)
-
                          
(586,982)
             
(1,401,910)
          
-
                          
-
                          
Total all other Governmental Funds
183,302,688
$     
164,118,816
$     
141,633,298
$     
145,559,072
$     
158,179,271
$     
    
FISCAL YEAR
Source:  City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports
City of San Mateo
Fund Balances of Governmental Funds (Continued)
Last Ten Fiscal Years
(modified accrual basis of accounting)
201
310 of 356

--- page 311 ---
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
Revenues:
Property taxes
45,514,243
$           
49,821,722
$           
52,989,555
$           
58,137,331
$           
63,899,035
$           
Sales taxes
26,406,209
             
27,458,762
             
26,001,428
             
26,313,958
             
28,606,235
             
Other taxes
27,492,257
             
27,947,256
             
29,904,204
             
29,818,008
             
32,051,159
             
Licenses, building and other permits
10,993,854
             
12,481,519
             
13,986,765
             
16,829,698
             
9,820,297
               
Fines, forfeitures and Penalties
1,797,820
               
1,608,517
               
2,347,508
               
1,983,069
               
2,361,048
               
Intergovernmental revenues
9,000,823
               
10,139,448
             
10,514,086
             
10,081,168
             
13,900,475
             
Charges for services
9,822,219
               
11,642,713
             
10,994,505
             
11,865,030
             
13,006,381
             
Investment income (loss)
939,463
                  
2,016,000
               
436,583
                  
1,274,997
               
6,257,565
               
Indirect and in-lieu fees
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
1,317,331
               
Assessment and garbage collection surcharge
3,128,070
               
8,000,287
               
2,405,534
               
2,591,689
               
1,887,074
               
Parking meter and lease revenue
2,722,471
               
2,881,193
               
3,113,739
               
5,334,641
               
4,320,920
               
Impact fees
3,260,222
               
4,274,248
               
3,747,065
               
4,021,226
               
1,754,337
               
Capital contributions
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
375,000
                  
750,000
                  
Other revenues
2,402,206
               
3,438,927
               
3,751,388
               
3,851,650
               
5,140,943
               
Total revenues
143,479,857
           
161,710,592
           
160,192,360
           
172,477,465
           
185,072,800
           
Expenditures:
General government
12,563,127
             
13,389,976
             
11,823,438
             
12,631,562
             
13,248,604
             
Community development
7,304,546
               
7,283,445
               
8,382,090
               
8,968,166
               
9,870,728
               
Public safety
53,016,349
             
58,605,898
             
63,623,621
             
68,708,919
             
63,971,508
             
Public works
6,103,576
               
7,128,676
               
8,585,107
               
10,030,818
             
10,525,838
             
Parks and recreation
12,759,601
             
13,190,936
             
14,666,422
             
14,967,718
             
15,563,445
             
Golf
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
2,152,691
               
Library
5,744,931
               
6,099,700
               
6,499,489
               
6,721,084
               
7,421,137
               
Non-departmental
1,280,000
               
1,250,000
               
2,891,155
               
3,001,379
               
5,726,983
               
Capital outlay
18,045,935
             
20,745,215
             
28,829,906
             
18,367,591
             
22,865,146
             
Debt service:
Principal
1,802,440
               
1,939,637
               
2,019,637
               
7,842,077
               
2,128,016
               
Interest and fiscal charges
1,761,775
               
1,656,297
               
1,702,963
               
1,705,078
               
1,624,137
               
Cost of issuance
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
Total expenditures
120,382,280
           
131,289,780
           
149,023,828
           
152,944,392
           
155,098,233
           
Excess of revenues 
over (under) expenditures
23,097,577
             
30,420,812
             
11,168,532
             
19,533,073
             
29,974,567
             
Other Financing Sources (Uses):
Proceeds from debt issuance
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
Premium
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
Debt refunding - payment to escrow
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
Proceeds from loans
265,820
                  
14,027
                    
746,896
                  
2,157,843
               
-
                              
Proceeds from sale of capital assets
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
Inception of subscription liability
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
Transfers in
11,402,970
             
13,083,222
             
14,117,848
             
20,890,354
             
12,938,471
             
Transfers out
(13,729,596)
            
(14,033,222)
            
(14,915,501)
            
(21,824,557)
            
(12,995,487)
            
Total other financing sources (uses)
(2,060,806)
              
(935,973)
                 
(50,757)
                   
1,223,640
               
(57,016)
                   
Special Item: Transfer of fire activities
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
(12,824,075)
            
Net change in fund balances
21,036,771
$           
29,484,839
$           
11,117,775
$           
20,756,713
$           
17,093,476
$           
3.42%
3.11%
3.01%
6.89%
2.82%
Notes:
Source:  City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports
Debt Service as a percentage of noncapital expenditures  
(1) 
(1) Non-capital expenditures is the difference between total expenditures and capital outlay reported on Government-wide Statement of Activities.
FISCAL YEAR
City of San Mateo
Changes in Fund Balances of Governmental Funds
Last Ten Fiscal Years
(modified accrual basis of accounting)
202
311 of 356

--- page 312 ---
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
Revenues:
Property taxes
67,106,048
$           
66,631,563
$           
74,796,572
$           
83,298,878
$           
81,331,244
$           
Sales taxes
26,958,596
             
27,948,874
             
33,408,980
             
34,283,362
             
32,380,449
             
Other taxes
23,481,055
             
22,257,348
             
28,907,233
             
27,140,943
             
26,771,455
             
Licenses, building and other permits
8,511,610
               
8,123,453
               
6,528,252
               
8,169,947
               
7,345,890
               
Fines, forfeitures and Penalties
1,486,473
               
2,247,808
               
2,201,172
               
2,909,055
               
3,242,892
               
Intergovernmental revenues
13,455,252
             
19,888,509
             
23,286,197
             
14,501,361
             
13,522,487
             
Charges for services
12,140,217
             
11,638,776
             
16,758,036
             
19,016,452
             
21,178,777
             
Investment income (loss)
6,451,349
               
411,387
                  
(5,494,064)
              
3,403,037
               
13,744,895
             
Indirect and in-lieu fees
710,540
                  
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
Assessment and garbage collection surcharge
1,952,167
               
6,268,685
               
2,248,303
               
2,702,720
               
2,897,760
               
Parking meter and lease revenue
5,960,255
               
2,023,435
               
5,807,293
               
3,424,971
               
3,199,677
               
Impact fees
4,471,088
               
1,741,192
               
613,890
                  
147,064
                  
-
                              
Capital contributions
750,000
                  
750,000
                  
750,000
                  
750,461
                  
9,764,955
               
Other revenues
4,440,498
               
6,513,514
               
5,030,830
               
4,622,308
               
5,340,645
               
Total revenues
177,875,148
           
176,444,544
           
194,842,694
           
204,370,559
           
220,721,126
           
Expenditures:
General government
14,127,919
             
14,777,676
             
14,824,775
             
14,095,593
             
15,524,365
             
Community development
9,903,606
               
10,450,200
             
20,931,630
             
14,508,302
             
13,862,340
             
Public safety
69,607,595
             
74,041,289
             
76,979,872
             
81,196,170
             
87,526,868
             
Public works
11,194,667
             
10,555,345
             
11,410,240
             
13,130,985
             
15,607,016
             
Parks and recreation
15,177,801
             
14,341,093
             
16,260,067
             
17,175,614
             
21,136,909
             
Golf
2,210,391
               
2,406,028
               
2,368,719
               
2,505,214
               
-
                              
Library
7,260,024
               
7,063,780
               
7,645,003
               
7,836,173
               
8,619,895
               
Non-departmental
6,535,562
               
7,357,090
               
8,244,606
               
9,662,288
               
9,968,106
               
Capital outlay
30,549,652
             
42,765,863
             
31,945,962
             
29,334,514
             
27,615,436
             
Debt service:
Principal
2,742,918
               
3,411,945
               
4,691,724
               
5,668,626
               
5,956,172
               
Interest and fiscal charges
1,554,488
               
3,412,560
               
2,950,846
               
2,869,645
               
2,806,831
               
Cost of issuance
380,166
                  
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
Total expenditures
171,244,789
           
190,582,869
           
198,253,444
           
197,983,124
           
208,623,938
           
Excess of revenues 
over (under) expenditures
6,630,359
               
(14,138,325)
            
(3,410,750)
              
6,387,435
               
12,097,188
             
Other Financing Sources (Uses):
Proceeds from debt issuance
47,595,599
             
1,525,675
               
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
Premium
8,068,164
               
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
Debt refunding - payment to escrow
(4,006,995)
              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
Proceeds from loans
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
Proceeds from sale of capital assets
713,154
                  
-
                              
-
                              
15,066
                    
21,354
                    
Inception of subscription liability
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
2,862,579
               
1,076,231
               
Transfers in
21,124,557
             
21,438,281
             
14,919,215
             
23,783,665
             
31,096,445
             
Transfers out
(24,945,585)
            
(21,613,526)
            
(14,500,228)
            
(22,695,762)
            
(31,592,897)
            
Total other financing sources (uses)
48,548,894
             
1,350,430
               
418,987
                  
3,965,548
               
601,133
                  
Special Item: Transfer of fire activities
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
-
                              
Net change in fund balances
55,179,253
$           
(12,787,895)
$          
(2,991,763)
$            
10,352,983
$           
12,698,321
$           
2.98%
4.58%
4.90%
5.14%
4.85%
Notes:
Source:  City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports
(1) Non-capital expenditures is the difference between total expenditures and capital outlay reported on Government-wide Statement of Activities.
Debt Service as a percentage of noncapital expenditures  
(1) 
FISCAL YEAR
City of San Mateo
Changes in Fund Balances of Governmental Funds (Continued)
Last Ten Fiscal Years
(modified accrual basis of accounting)
203
312 of 356

--- page 313 ---
Fiscal 
Year 
End
Residential 
Property 
Commercial 
Property 
Industrial 
Property 
Other 
Property (1)
Unsecured 
Property
Less Tax-
Exempt 
Property
Taxable 
Assessed Value
Total 
Direct Tax 
Rate (2)
Estimated 
Actual Value 
(3)
Factor of 
Taxable 
Assessed 
Value (3)
2015
15,233,601
$    
3,228,752
$     
$     199,821
291,470
$        
724,375
$      
$     309,015
19,369,004
$      
0.18%
32,278,244
$   
       1.6665
2016
16,649,492
      
3,454,897
       
       176,544
324,490
          
760,591
        
       348,736
21,017,279
        
0.18%
40,006,118
     
       1.9035
2017
17,909,339
      
3,823,284
       
       180,072
574,686
          
738,320
        
       591,188
22,634,512
        
0.18%
44,026,273
     
       1.9451
2018
19,417,451
      
4,213,927
       
       187,130
598,899
          
710,584
        
       587,446
24,540,546
        
0.18%
48,683,633
     
       1.9838
2019
20,830,053
      
4,927,490
       
       197,026
547,948
          
774,755
        
       670,274
26,606,997
        
0.18%
54,298,177
     
       2.0407
2020
22,332,343
      
5,423,015
       
       213,692
532,710
          
847,426
        
       707,556
28,641,629
        
0.18%
55,884,822
     
       1.9512
2021
23,744,131
      
6,182,033
       
       230,600
591,123
          
796,824
        
       744,934
30,799,777
        
0.18%
51,914,472
     
       1.6855
2022
24,687,992
      
6,260,358
       
       237,818
712,697
          
733,747
        
       750,172
31,882,440
        
0.18%
62,404,646
     
      1.9573
 
2023
26,725,006
      
6,912,012
       
       250,071
639,168
          
747,059
        
       801,890
34,471,426
        
0.18%
67,076,627
     
       1.9459
2024
28,087,540
      
7,379,284
       
       274,663
670,178
          
783,613
        
       843,621
36,351,657
        
0.18%
64,202,152
     
       1.7661
2) Total direct tax rate is the city share of the 1% Proposition 13 tax only for TRA 12-001.  Rates are not adjusted for ERAF.
Source:  County Assessor data,Source:  MuniServices, LLC / Avenu Insights & Analytics 
City of San Mateo
Last Ten Fiscal Years 
(amount expressed in thousands)
Assessed Value and Estimated Actual Value of Taxable Property
Notes:
1)  Other property includes state unitary value of $3,294,887.
3) Estimated Actual Value is derived from a series of calculations comparing median assessed values from 1940 to current median sale prices.  Based on these 
calculations a multiplier value was extrapolated and applied to current assessed values.
204
313 of 356

--- page 314 ---
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
Basic City and County Levy
CITY OF SAN MATEO        
   0.1761
 
   0.1761
 
   0.1761
 
   0.1761
 
   0.1761
 
   0.1761
 
     0.1761
 
     0.1761
 
     0.1761
 
     0.1761
 
OTHER SAN MATEO 
COUNTY AGENCIES
   0.8239
 
   0.8239
 
   0.8239
 
0.8239
0.8239
0.8239
0.8239
0.8239
0.8239
0.8239
TOTAL
    1.0000
   1.0000
 
   1.0000
 
   1.0000
 
   1.0000
 
   1.0000
 
     1.0000
 
     1.0000
 
     1.0000
 
     1.0000
 
Override Assessments
S M CTY DEBT-LIB. PROJECT
   0.0105
 
   0.0102
 
   0.0090
 
   0.0084
 
   0.0077
 
   0.0071
 
     0.0067
 
     0.0064
 
     0.0060
 
     0.0057
 
S M FOSTER CITY SERIES Q
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
        - 
      0.0022
     0.0035
 
     0.0015
 
     0.0159
 
SM FC EL BD REFUND SER
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
        - 
            -
           - 
           - 
           - 
SM FOSTER CITY 2005 REF
   0.0185
 
   0.0197
 
   0.0156
 
   0.0162
 
   0.0170
 
   0.0042
 
            -
           - 
           - 
           - 
SM FC 2012 GO REF Ser 0
   0.0071
 
   0.0069
 
   0.0060
 
   0.0056
 
   0.0052
 
   0.0050
 
            -
           - 
           - 
           - 
SM FC GO BOND 08 ELEC
   0.0132
 
   0.0082
 
   0.0154
 
   0.0151
 
   0.0146
 
   0.0140
 
     0.0073
 
     0.0053
 
     0.0086
 
            -
SM FC GO BOND 2014
         - 
   0.0006
 
   0.0002
 
   0.0003
 
   0.0003
 
   0.0011
 
     0.0013
 
     0.0014
 
     0.0013
 
           - 
SM FC GO BOND 2015
-
          
   0.0048
 
   0.0174
 
   0.0170
 
   0.0159
 
   0.0194
 
     0.0151
 
     0.0173
 
     0.0159
 
     0.0007
 
SM FC GO BOND ELECT 202
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
        - 
            -
           - 
           - 
     0.0285
 
SM FC GO BD 2020 REFUND
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
        - 
      0.0203
     0.0390
 
     0.0340
 
     0.0114
 
SAN MATEO HIGH 2017 GO
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
   0.0020
 
   0.0016
 
     0.0015
 
     0.0014
 
     0.0020
 
     0.0019
 
SAN MATEO HIGH BD SER 2
   0.0072
 
   0.0064
 
   0.0066
 
   0.0065
 
   0.0063
 
   0.0063
 
     0.0021
 
            -
     0.0049
 
     0.0036
 
SAN MATEO UN HIGH BND S
   0.0108
 
   0.0063
 
   0.0063
 
   0.0063
 
   0.0047
 
   0.0036
 
     0.0061
 
     0.0061
 
     0.0022
 
     0.0022
 
SAN MATEO HIGH RFND. SER
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
        - 
      0.0044
     0.0247
 
     0.0038
 
     0.0033
 
SAN MATEO HIGH 2012 GO
   0.0078
 
   0.0088
 
   0.0106
 
   0.0105
 
   0.0115
 
   0.0109
 
     0.0019
 
     0.0046
 
     0.0026
 
     0.0025
 
SAN MATEO HIGH 2016 GO
         - 
         - 
         - 
   0.0025
 
   0.0020
 
   0.0018
 
     0.0061
 
     0.0036
 
     0.0069
 
     0.0096
 
SAN MATEO HIGH 2019 GO
         - 
-
          
         - 
         - 
         - 
        - 
      0.0025
     0.0023
 
     0.0020
 
     0.0019
 
SAN MATEO HIGH 2019 REF
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
        - 
      0.0020
     0.0061
 
     0.0015
 
     0.0014
 
SAN MATEO HIGH 2022 GO
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
        - 
            -
           - 
     0.0021
 
     0.0017
 
SM JR COLLEGE BD 2002
         - 
   0.0012
 
   0.0019
 
   0.0019
 
   0.0018
 
   0.0019
 
     0.0019
 
     0.0020
 
     0.0016
 
     0.0017
 
SM JR COLL BOND SER 200
   0.0002
 
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
        - 
      0.0018
     0.0019
 
     0.0017
 
     0.0016
 
SM JR COLL BOND 2001 SE
   0.0009
 
   0.0008
 
   0.0006
 
   0.0007
 
   0.0007
 
   0.0007
 
     0.0007
 
     0.0007
 
     0.0006
 
     0.0007
 
SM JR COLL BOND 2006 SE
   0.0042
 
   0.0039
 
   0.0037
 
   0.0036
 
   0.0035
 
   0.0033
 
     0.0032
 
     0.0031
 
     0.0026
 
     0.0021
 
SM JR COLL BOND 2014
         - 
         - 
   0.0029
 
   0.0027
 
   0.0024
 
   0.0018
 
     0.0017
 
            -
     0.0003
 
     0.0012
 
SM JR COLL BOND 2015
         - 
         - 
   0.0071
 
   0.0066
 
   0.0012
 
   0.0011
 
     0.0012
 
           - 
     0.0002
 
     0.0002
 
SAN MATEO COMM COLL 200
0.0069
    
   0.0036
 
   0.0085
 
   0.0080
 
   0.0079
 
   0.0042
 
     0.0037
 
     0.0040
 
     0.0039
 
     0.0040
 
SAN MATEO HIGH ELEC
   0.0217
 
   0.0251
 
   0.0180
 
   0.0175
 
   0.0142
 
   0.0143
 
     0.0183
 
            -
     0.0224
 
     0.0195
 
SM JR COLL BOND REF 201
   0.0068
 
   0.0155
 
         - 
         - 
         - 
        - 
      0.0025
     0.0019
 
            -
           - 
SAN MATEO COMM COLL
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
   0.0035
 
            -
     0.0043
 
     0.0035
 
     0.0033
 
SM JR COLL ELECT 2014
          -
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
   0.0088
 
     0.0036
 
     0.0039
 
     0.0040
 
     0.0035
 
SM JR COLL 2018 REF BOND
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
   0.0007
 
     0.0005
 
     0.0005
 
     0.0005
 
     0.0004
 
SM JR COLL 2019 REF BOND
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
         - 
   0.0006
 
     0.0005
 
     0.0004
 
     0.0004
 
     0.0003
 
TOTAL
    0.1158
   0.1220
 
   0.1298
 
   0.1294
 
   0.1189
 
   0.1159
 
     0.1191
 
     0.1444
 
     0.1370
 
     0.1288
 
TOTAL TAX RATE
    1.1158
    1.1220
    1.1298
    1.1294
    1.1189
    1.1159
     1.1191
 
      1.1444
      1.1370
      1.1288
Sources: (1) City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports
              
(2) County Auditor/Controller data, MuniServices, LLC / Avenu Insights & Analytics
FISCAL YEAR
City of San Mateo
Direct and Overlapping Property Tax Rates
Last Ten Fiscal Years 
(rate expressed in percentage)
205
314 of 356

--- page 315 ---
Taxpayer
Taxable
Value
Rank
Percent of 
Total City 
Taxable 
Value
Taxable
Value
Rank
Percent of 
Total City 
Taxable 
Value
Bay Meadows Station Investors LLC
1,003,030,576
              
1
2.76%
Essex Portfolio LP
617,933,473
                 
2
1.70%
HSC Property Owner LLC
592,926,000
                 
3
1.63%
Franklin Templeton Corp Svcs Inc
471,210,306
                 
4
1.30%
263,049,333
                  
1
1.36%
2000 Sierra Point Parkway LLC
343,104,674
                 
5
0.94%
1825 SG Corporation
288,422,365
                 
6
0.79%
HG Clearview Owner LLC
237,352,594
                 
7
0.65%
ASN Bay Meadows I LLC & Bay Meadows II LLC
231,897,884
                 
8
0.64%
196,730,033
                  
2
1.02%
Rakuten CHW LLC
200,339,106
                 
9
0.55%
Hospitality Investment LLC Lessee
188,690,978
                 
10
0.52%
Park Place Holdco LLC
110,400,000
3
0.57%
Sobrato Interests 3
154,644,275
4
0.80%
BRE Properties Inc
55,524,909
                    
5
0.29%
Bohannon Dev Co
177,471,548
                  
6
0.92%
Peninsula Office Park
131,316,433
                  
7
0.68%
Essex Hillsdale Garden Apts
107,889,425
                  
8
0.56%
DW Bridgepointe LLC
98,299,639
                    
9
0.51%
SPK San Mateo Baycenter LLC
96,178,493
                    
10
0.50%
     Total Top 10 Taxpayers
4,174,907,956
11.48%
1,391,504,088
             
7.18%
     Total Taxable Value
36,351,657,524
$        
100.00%
19,369,003,662
$         
100.00%
Source: MuniServices, LLC / Avenu Insights & Analytics
2024
2015
City of San Mateo
Current Year and Nine Years Ago
Principal Property Taxpayers
206
315 of 356

--- page 316 ---
Fiscal
Year
Total Tax
Delinquent
Ended
Levied for
Collected
Percentage
Tax
Collected
Percentage
June 30
Fiscal Year
(1)
Amount
(2)
of Levy
Collections
(3)
Amount
of Levy
(4)
2015
45,515,000
$       
45,514,243
$       
100.00%
n/a
45,514,243
$       
100.00%
2016
49,821,722
         
49,821,722
         
100.00%
n/a
49,821,722
         
100.00%
2017
52,989,556
         
52,989,556
         
100.00%
n/a
52,989,556
         
100.00%
2018
58,146,288
         
58,137,331
         
99.98%
n/a
58,137,331
         
99.98%
2019
63,899,034
         
63,899,034
         
100.00%
n/a
63,899,034
         
100.00%
2020
67,106,048
         
67,106,048
         
100.00%
n/a
67,106,048
         
100.00%
2021
66,631,560
         
66,631,560
         
100.00%
n/a
66,631,560
         
100.00%
2022
74,796,572
         
74,796,572
         
100.00%
n/a
74,796,572
         
100.00%
2023
83,298,878
         
83,298,878
         
100.00%
n/a
83,298,878
         
100.00%
2024
81,331,244
         
81,331,244
         
100.00%
n/a
81,331,244
         
100.00%
Notes:
Source:  County of San Mateo
Total Collections To Date
Collected Within the
City of San Mateo
Property Tax Levies and Collections
Last Ten Fiscal Years
(2) Former redevelopment agency tax increments were excluded starting February 1, 2012, and subsequent fiscal years.
(4) Years of lower collection are due to weak housing market and assessed value appeals.
Fiscal Year of the Levy
(1) The data in this table includes the basic and supplemental city property taxes and subventions, debt service tax and the Redevelopment Agency
tax increments, ERAF refunds, and property tax in-lieu of motor vehicle fees.
(3) San Mateo County assesses properties and it bills, collects, and distributes property taxes to all taxing entities, including the City. Under State
law, known as the Teeter Plan, the county remits the entire amount levied and handles all delinquencies, retaining interest and penalties. Only
secured taxes will be paid under the Teeter Plan.
207
316 of 356

--- page 317 ---
Governmental Activities
General
Fiscal
Obligation
Revenue
Loans
Lease
Subscription
Total
Year
Bonds
Bond
Payable
Liability
Liability
Governmental
2015
27,580
$                  
27,478
$                  
253
$                            
-
$                             
-
$                             
55,311
$                       
2016
26,268
                    
26,774
                    
193
                              
-
                               
-
                               
53,235
                         
2017
24,920
                    
26,026
                    
865
                              
-
                               
-
                               
51,811
                         
2018
23,528
                    
19,512
                    
2,936
                           
-
                               
-
                               
45,976
                         
2019
22,086
                    
25,408
                    
2,728
                           
86
                                
-
                               
50,308
                         
2020
20,584
                    
74,356
                    
4,323
                           
29
                                
-
                               
99,292
                         
2021
19,032
                    
72,379
                    
5,501
                           
-
                               
-
                               
96,912
                         
2022
17,410
                    
69,888
                    
4,880
                           
-
                               
-
                               
92,178
                         
2023
15,733
                    
67,394
                    
4,285
                           
1,054
                           
3,473
                           
91,939
                         
2024
13,986
                    
64,801
                    
3,689
                           
442
                              
3,651
                           
86,569
                         
Notes:  
Details regarding the City's outstanding debt can be found in the notes to the financial statements.
City of San Mateo
(amounts expressed in thousands, except per capita amount)
Last Ten Fiscal Years 
Ratios of Outstanding Debt by Type
Former Redevelopment Agency Bonds were excluded in fiscal year 2012 and subsequent fiscal years.
Golf bond was included in Governmental Activities Revenue Bond effective fiscal year 2019 (when Golf operation was transferred to General Fund)
Capital lease payable was included in Governmental Activities capital lease payable effective fiscal year 2019 (when Golf operation was transferred to General Fund)
Source:  City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive 
208
317 of 356

--- page 318 ---
Business-Type Activities
Total
Percentage
Redevelopment
County
Fiscal
Sewer
Loans
Golf
Lease
Total
Primary
of Personal 
Per
Tax Allocation
CDBG
Year
Bonds
Payable
Bond
Liability
Business-Type
Government
Income
Capita
Bond
Loan
2015
$     61,434
       4,916
 
$   7,465
$            -
73,815.00
$  
129,126
$       
2.54%
$    1,277
75,549.00
$        
$           - 
2016
       59,867
     11,000
 
     7,095
              -
         77,962
131,197
         
2.45%
      1,288
72,202
               
             - 
2017
       58,244
       5,000
 
     6,710
             209
         70,163
121,974
         
2.12%
      1,187
68,400
               
             - 
2018
       56,572
       5,000
 
     6,572
             142
         68,286
114,262
         
1.88%
      1,112
63,395
               
             - 
2019
     338,126
           -
         -
              -
       338,126
388,434
         
6.17%
      3,788
59,095
               
             - 
2020
     334,752
           -
         -
              -
       334,752
434,044
         
6.89%
      4,230
55,045
               
             - 
2021
     331,296
           -
         -
              -
       331,296
428,208
         
6.30%
      4,175
50,875
               
             - 
2022
     635,380
           -
         -
              -
       635,380
727,558
         
9.23%
      7,030
46,546
               
             - 
2023
     619,136
           -
         -
               75
       619,211
711,150
         
7.75%
      6,883
42,046
               
             - 
2024
     318,566
   295,479
 
         -
               38
       614,083
700,652
         
6.83%
      6,779
37,371
               
              -
Notes:  
Former Redevelopment Agency Bonds were excluded in fiscal year 2012 and subsequent fiscal years.
Golf bond was included in Governmental Activities Revenue Bond effective fiscal year 2019 (when Golf operation was transferred to General Fund)
Fiduciary Funds
City of San Mateo
Ratios of Outstanding Debt by Type (Continued)
Last Ten Fiscal Years 
(amounts expressed in thousands, except per capita amount)
Details regarding the City's outstanding debt can be found in the notes to the financial statements.
Source:  City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports
Capital lease payable was included in Governmental Activities capital lease payable effective fiscal year 2019 (when Golf operation was transferred to General Fund)
209
318 of 356

--- page 319 ---
Percentage
General
Less: Amount
of Total Taxable
Fiscal
Obligation
Available in 
Assessed
Year
Bonds
Debt Svc Fund
Total (net)
Value
Per Capita 
2015
27,580
$              
3,034
$                     
24,546
$              
0.13%
242
$                 
2016
26,268
                
3,642
                       
22,626
                
0.11%
220
                   
2017
24,920
                
4,026
                       
20,894
                
0.09%
202
                   
2018
23,528
                
4,455
                       
19,073
                
0.08%
183
                   
2019
22,086
                
4,960
                       
17,126
                
0.06%
164
                   
2020
20,584
                
5,340
                       
15,244
                
0.05%
148
                   
2021
19,032
                
5,701
                       
13,331
                
0.04%
129
                   
2022
17,410
                
5,929
                       
11,481
                
0.04%
111
                   
2023
15,733
                
6,661
                       
9,072
                  
0.02%
88
                     
2024
13,986
                
7,575
                       
6,411
                  
0.02%
62
                     
Source:  City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports
Details regarding the City's outstanding debt can be found in the notes to the financial statements.
Former Redevelopment Agency Bonds were excluded in fiscal year 2012 and subsequent fiscal years.
City of San Mateo
Ratios of General Bonded Debt Outstanding
Last Ten Fiscal Years 
(amounts expressed in thousands, except per capita amount)
Notes: 
210
319 of 356

--- page 320 ---
2023-24 Assessed Valuation:
36,458,670,724
$     
Total Debt
%
City’s Share of
OVERLAPPING TAX AND ASSESSMENT DEBT:
6/30/2024
Applicable(1)
Debt 6/30/2024
San Mateo Community College District
682,237,216
$         
11.85%
80,817,821
$           
San Mateo Union High School District
703,110,767
           
34.43%
242,045,882
$         
Sequoia Union High School District
488,322,000
           
0.54%
2,641,822
$             
Belmont-Redwood Shores School District
69,920,935
             
3.72%
2,597,563
$             
Belmont School Facilities Improvement District
39,231,717
             
6.55%
2,569,285
$             
Hillsborough School District
98,867,884
             
0.00%
989
$                       
San Mateo-Foster City School District
497,628,474
           
68.52%
340,975,030
$         
City of San Mateo Community Facilities District No.2008-1
71,350,000
             
100.00%
71,350,000
$           
  TOTAL OVERLAPPING TAX AND ASSESSMENT DEBT
2,650,668,993
$      
742,998,392
$         
DIRECT TAX AND ASSESSMENT DEBT:
City of San Mateo
13,030,000
             
100.00%
13,030,000
$           
TOTAL DIRECT TAX AND ASSESSMENT DEBT
13,030,000
$           
13,030,000
$           
TOTAL DIRECT AND OVERLAPPING TAX AND ASSESSMENT DEBT
2,663,698,993
$      
756,028,392
$         
OVERLAPPING GENERAL FUND DEBT:
San Mateo County General Fund Obligations
565,146,645
$         
11.85%
66,947,272
$           
San Mateo County Board of Education Certificates of Participation
5,735,000
               
11.85%
679,368
$                
Belmont-Redwood Shores School District General Fund Obligations
4,498,074
               
3.72%
167,103
$                
Highlands Recreation District General Fund Obligations
1,879,000
               
0.02%
282
$                       
San Mateo County Mosquito & Vector Control District General Fund Obligations
3,404,654
               
11.85%
403,315
$                
  TOTAL OVERLAPPING GENERAL FUND DEBT
580,663,373
$         
68,197,340
$           
DIRECT GENERAL FUND DEBT:
City of San Mateo General Fund Obligations
57,735,000
             
100.00%
57,735,000
             
TOTAL DIRECT GENERAL FUND DEBT
57,735,000
$           
57,735,000
$           
TOTAL DIRECT AND OVERLAPPING GENERAL FUND DEBT
638,398,373
$         
125,932,340
$         
Less:  City of San Mateo enterprise supported obligations
-
                          
           Highlands Recreation District supported obligations
220
                         
TOTAL NET DIRECT AND OVERLAPPING GENERAL FUND DEBT
125,932,120
$         
OVERLAPPING TAX INCREMENT DEBT (Successor Agency)
35,460,000
$           
100.00%
35,460,000
$           
TOTAL GROSS DIRECT DEBT
70,765,000
             
TOTAL NET DIRECT DEBT
70,765,000
             
TOTAL OVERLAPPING DEBT
846,655,733
           
GROSS COMBINED TOTAL DEBT
917,420,732
           
(2)
    NET COMBINED TOTAL DEBT
917,420,512
$         
Ratios to 2023-24 Assessed Valuation:
  Direct Debt  ($13,030,000)
0.04%
  Total Direct and Overlapping Tax and Assessment Debt
2.07%
  Total Gross Direct Debt  ($70,765,000)
0.19%
  Total Net Direct Debt  ($70,765,000)
0.19%
  Gross Combined Total Debt
2.52%
  Net Combined Total Debt
2.52%
Ratios to Redevelopment Successor Agency Incremental Valuation ($2,896,993,541):
 Total Overlapping Tax Increment Debt
1.22%
Notes:
Source:  MuniServices, LLC / Auenu Insights & Analysis and  City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports
City of San Mateo
Direct and Overlapping Governmental Activities Debt
As of June 30, 2024
(1) The percentage of overlapping debt applicable to the city is estimated using taxable assessed property value. Applicable percentages were estimated by determining the portion of the 
overlapping district's assessed value that is within the boundaries of the city, divided by the district's total taxable assessed value.
(2) Excludes tax and revenue anticipation notes, enterprise revenue and mortgage revenue
211
320 of 356

--- page 321 ---
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
Debt Limit
2,951,703
$         
3,204,902
$         
3,483,855
$         
3,769,199
$         
4,091,591
$         
Total net debt applicable to limit
27,580
                
26,268
                
24,920
                
23,528
                
22,086
                
Legal debt margin
2,924,123
$         
3,178,634
$         
3,458,935
$         
3,745,671
$         
4,069,505
$         
Total net debt applicable to the limit as a 
percentage of debt limit
0.93%
0.82%
0.72%
0.62%
0.54%
Note: The Government Code of the State of California provides for a legal debt limit of 15% of gross assessed valuation.
Source:  County of San Mateo
FISCAL YEAR
City of San Mateo
Legal Debt Margin Information
Last Ten Fiscal Years 
(amounts expressed in thousands)
212
321 of 356

--- page 322 ---
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
Debt Limit
4,402,378
$         
4,731,707
$         
4,894,892
$         
5,290,997
$              
5,579,292
$                  
Total net debt applicable to limit
20,584
                
19,032
                
17,410
                
15,733
                     
13,986
                         
Legal debt margin
4,381,794
$         
4,712,675
$         
4,877,482
$         
5,275,264
$              
5,565,306
$                  
Total net debt applicable to the limit as a 
percentage of debt limit
0.47%
0.40%
0.36%
0.30%
0.25%
Legal Debt Margin Calculation for Fiscal Year 2024
2024
Assessed value
36,351,658
$                
Add back:  exempt real property
843,621
                       
37,195,279
$                
Debt limit (15% of assessed value)
5,579,292
$                  
Debt Application to limit:
General obligation bonds
13,986
                         
Total net debt applicable to limit
13,986
                         
Legal debt margin
5,565,306
$                  
Note: The Government Code of the State of California provides for a legal debt limit of 15% of gross assessed valuation.
Source:  County of San Mateo
City of San Mateo
Legal Debt Margin Information (Continued)
Last Ten Fiscal Years 
(amounts expressed in thousands)
FISCAL YEAR
213
322 of 356

--- page 323 ---
Sewer 
Less
Net
Fiscal
Charges
Operating 
Available
Year
and Other
(1)
Expenses
(2)
Revenue
Principal
Interest
Coverage
2015
32,453
$                  
19,511
$                  
12,942
$                  
17,800
$                  
(3)
2,041
$                    
3.65
                        
(3)
2016
31,874
                    
23,218
                    
8,656
                      
1,460
                      
2,560
                      
2.15
                        
2017
31,932
                    
21,419
                    
10,513
                    
1,515
                      
2,516
                      
2.61
                        
2018
41,927
                    
21,870
                    
20,057
                    
1,565
                      
2,462
                      
4.98
                        
2019
53,362
                    
23,347
                    
30,015
                    
1,585
                      
3,220
                      
6.25
                        
2020
64,587
                    
22,828
                    
41,759
                    
1,650
                      
9,536
                      
3.73
                        
2021
69,020
                    
24,262
                    
44,758
                    
1,730
                      
13,195
                    
3.00
                        
2022
71,061
                    
24,409
                    
46,652
                    
20,820
                    
(4)
20,413
                    
2.17
                        
(4)
2023
85,586
                    
24,508
                    
61,078
                    
1,740
                      
12,694
                    
4.23
                        
2024
82,501
                    
33,041
                    
49,460
                    
273,430
                  
(5)
12,018
                    
3.56
                        
(5)
Notes: 
(1)  Sewer charges and other include investment earnings.  
(2)  Operating expenses do not include interest or depreciation.
(3)  Increase due to the refunding of the 2003 Sewer Revenue bonds totaling $16.3 million, which is excluded from the coverage calculation.
(4)  Increase due to the refunding of the 2011A Sewer Revenue bonds totaling $19.7 million, which is excluded from the coverage calculation.
(5)  Increase due to the refunding of the 2021B Wastewater Revenue Notes totaling $271.5 million, which is excluded from the coverage calculation.
Source:  City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports
Pledged-Revenue Coverage
City of San Mateo
Debt Service
(amounts expressed in thousands)
Last Ten Fiscal Years 
Sewer Revenue Bonds
214
323 of 356

--- page 324 ---
Fiscal 
Year
Population 
(1)
Personal Income (2)
Per Capita 
Personal 
Income (2)
Median 
Age
*Public School 
Enrollment 
County 
Unemployment 
Rate (%) (3)
City 
Unemployment 
Rate(%) (3)
County 
Population (1)
City 
Population 
(% of County) 
(1)
2015
101,429
$      
4,696,568,416
$       
$      46,304
39.2
20,179
3.20%
3.10%
753,123
13.47%
2016
102,659
5,156,150,934
50,226
39.1
20,603
3.40%
3.30%
766,041
13.40%
2017
103,426
5,444,686,980
52,643
39.1
21,074
3.00%
2.90%
770,203
13.43%
2018
104,490
5,850,629,158
55,992
38.9
21,321
2.20%
2.00%
774,155
13.50%
2019
104,570
6,175,904,200
59,060
39.6
21,299
1.70%
1.60%
774,485
13.50%
2020
103,087
6,332,177,735
61,426
39.2
21,461
11.10%
9.70%
773,244
13.33%
2021
103,045
6,832,166,874
66,303
38.2
20,729
6.84%
6.20%
765,245
13.47%
2022
103,779
7,903,471,358
76,157
37.8
20,012
1.70%
1.50%
744,662
13.94%
2023
103,318
9,177,651,153
88,829
38.0
19,554
2.70%
2.80%
737,644
14.01%
2024
103,352
10,259,142,230
99,264
39.4
19,323
2.90%
2.90%
741,565
13.94%
Notes:
(1) Population Projections are provided by the California Department of Finance.
(2) Income Data is provided by U.S. Census Bureau.
(3) Unemployment Data is provided by the Employment Development Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics Department.
Source:  MuniServices, LLC / avenu Insights & Analytics
City of San Mateo
Demographic and Economic Statistics
Last Ten Fiscal Years 
*Student Enrollment reflects the total number of students enrolled in the San Mateo Union High School District and San Mateo-Foster City Unified School District. 
Any other school districts within the City are not accounted for in this statistic.
215
324 of 356

--- page 325 ---
Business Name
Number of 
Employees
Percent of 
Total 
Employment 
(%)
Number of 
Employees
Percent of Total 
Employment (%)
County of San Mateo Medical Center
1,414
                        
2.30%
2,598
4.20%
San Mateo Foster City School District*
1,232
                        
2.00%
1,177
1.90%
Sony Interactive Entertainment America, Playstation America**
1,230
                        
2.00%
San Mateo Union High School District
1,038
                        
1.69%
1,000
1.62%
San Mateo College (San Mateo County CCD)
674
                           
1.09%
1,170
1.89%
Franklin Templeton Investor
435
                           
0.71%
1,103
1.78%
San Mateo County Behavioral Health
548
                           
0.89%
475
0.77%
City of San Mateo
477
                           
0.77%
975
1.58%
Mills Health Center - Sutter Health 
415
                           
0.67%
451
0.73%
Rakuten
253
                           
0.41%
Marketo Inc
471
0.76%
Fisher Investments
465
0.75%
Total Top 10 Employers
7,716
                        
12.53%
9,885
                 
15.97%
Total Labor Force (1)
61,600
61,900
Sources: 
(1) City of San Mateo Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports
(2) MuniServices, LLC / Avenu Insights & Analytics 
Results based on direct correspondence with city’s local businesses.
*Includes Capuchino and Burlingame HS which are outside the city limits of San Mateo.
** Sony Interactive Entertainment America, Playstation America has not responded.
      Previous year's employee headcount applied.
(1) Total City Labor Force provided by EDD Labor Force Data. 
Principal Employers for City of San Mateo
City of San Mateo
Current Year and Nine Years Ago
2024
2015
216
325 of 356

--- page 326 ---
Function
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
General government
    57.81
   64.75
    66.41
   65.58
     66.09
     62.65
     62.65
     61.95
     59.95
     58.92
     64.39
Community development     39.72
   47.35
    47.35
   48.94
     48.94
     49.72
     51.72
     51.40
     51.40
     53.18
     56.18
Public safety
244.77
  
249.78
 
256.53
  
268.11
 
265.85
   
   177.14
   171.51
   170.50
   167.50
   169.40
   170.40
(1)
Public works 
(excluding Sewer)
   44.51
 
   44.52
    45.99
   57.96
     57.11
     63.51
     61.56
     63.71
     64.08
     67.69
     73.28
Parks and recreation
(excluding Golf)
    98.79
101.54
 
101.54
  
102.07
 
103.21
   
   107.73
   107.73
   106.40
   107.68
   100.47
   107.08
Library
    47.95
   48.85
    49.35
   50.59
     52.48
     53.36
     53.36
     53.34
     52.34
     52.32
     54.32
Sewer
    75.24
   76.69
    77.99
   80.49
     80.49
     84.58
     86.53
     86.20
     84.83
     86.52
     85.41
Golf
    11.14
   11.14
    11.14
   11.77
     11.77
     12.55
     12.55
     12.75
     12.75
     12.75
       7.50
Total:
619.93
  
644.62
 
656.30
  
685.51
 
685.94
   
611.24
   
607.61
   
606.25
   
600.53
   
601.25
   
618.56
   
Notes:
Source:  Adopted City Budgets
 (1) Public safety number starting fiscal year 2019 only included Police Department's employees. Fire Operations were transferred to 
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department effective 1/13/2019. 
City of San Mateo
Full-Time Equivalent City Government Employees by Function
Last Ten Fiscal Years
Full-Time Equivalent Employees as of June 30
217
326 of 356

--- page 327 ---
Function
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
Building:
   Building permits issued 
     3,587
      4,359
     4,169
       4,385
        3,678
       3,345
        3,937
        4,061
        4,115
        3,856
   Inspections
   16,090
    16,984
   19,061
     20,252
      18,828
     15,890
      19,138
      16,160
      18,881
      18,129
Finance:
   Business licenses issued
     9,111
      9,474
     8,796
       8,656
        8,200
       8,072
        7,300
        7,300
        8,350
        7,900
Fire:
   Number of calls 
     9,672
      9,780
     9,282
       9,822
        5,365
(2)
   Inspections
     7,213
      7,504
     7,681
       4,513
        1,284
(2)
Golf course:
   Golf rounds played
   63,903
    62,441
   59,348
     62,923
      61,805
     60,820
      80,050
      83,964
      75,130
      80,636
(3)
Library:
   Annual circulation
922,790
 
946,259
  
981,512
 
988,301
   
1,129,127
 
921,979
   
    657,064
    983,423
    980,442
1,022,395
 
(3)
   Library visits
566,244
 
555,008
  
603,760
 
610,834
   
    764,469
   422,226
      25,168
    255,644
    336,040
    379,404
(3)
Parks and recreation:
   Course registration
   23,752
    24,843
   23,123
     23,734
      22,521
     23,412
        5,837
      14,537
      19,488
      19,603
   Facility rentals
     1,386
      1,368
     1,346
       1,369
        1,329
         827
 
            -
           191
           473
          397
 
   Picnic rentals
     1,275
      1,086
     1,274
       1,340
        1,423
       1,165
           361
        1,650
        1,608
        1,676
Police:
   Arrests
     3,077
      3,311
     2,947
       2,670
        2,496
       2,112
        2,242
        2,231
        2,106
        2,255
   Traffic violations
     4,076
      6,548
     4,470
     13,364
      11,058
       5,999
        9,400
        7,636
        7,853
        7,487
(1)
   Parking violations
   35,284
    30,699
   31,950
     27,103
      27,410
     23,300
      36,558
      32,276
      65,102
      60,279
Public works:
   Street resurfacing (lane miles)
          21
           14
            4
              6
             22
              7
             18
            8.5
          42.3
            6.8
   Potholes repaired
        443
         198
        315
          150
           297
          209
           331
           744
           774
           557
Sewer:
   Number of customers
   27,661
    27,816
   27,965
     27,961
      28,237
     28,366
      28,359
      28,359
      28,359
      28,494
   Average daily sewage
     treatment (mgd)
       12.0
        10.0
       12.2
         10.4
          11.5
           9.9
            9.7
          10.6
          13.0
          13.0
Notes:
Source:  Various City Departments
(1) Number of traffic violations starting fiscal year 2018 included number of photo enforcement violations. Such information was not available for prior fiscal years.
(2) Number of fire calls for fiscal year 2019 included calls for period from 7/1/18 to 1/12/19. Fire operation was transferred to San Mateo Consolidated Fire
Department (SMC Fire) effective 1/13/2019. Please refer to SMC Fire annual financial report for Fire Department operating indicators starting from January 13,
2019.
(3) Due to shelter-in-place orders, all three San Mateo Public Library facilities were closed to the public from 3/16/20 through 6/30/20, and the golf course was
completely closed from 3/16/20 through 5/5/20.
City of San Mateo
Operating Indicators by Function
Last Ten Fiscal Years
FISCAL YEAR
218
327 of 356

--- page 328 ---
Function
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
Fire:
   Fire stations
            6
             6
            6
              6
               6
              6
               6
               6
               6
               6
Golf course:
   Municipal golf courses
            1
             1
            1
              1
               1
              1
               1
               1
               1
               1
Library:
  Main Library
            1
             1
            1
              1
               1
              1
               1
               1
               1
               1
  Branch Library
            2
             2
            2
              2
               2
              2
               2
               2
               2
               2
Parks and recreation:
   Parks acreage
        318
         320
        320
          320
           320
          320
           320
           320
           320
           350
   Parks
          34
           35
          35
            35
             35
            35
             35
             35
             35
             36
   Swimming pools
            2
             2
            2
              2
               2
              2
               2
               2
               2
               2
   Tennis courts
          16
           16
          16
            16
             16
            16
             16
             16
             16
             16
   Community centers
            6
             6
            6
              6
               6
              6
               6
               6
              6 
               6
Police:
   Stations
            1
             1
1
            
              1
               1
              1
               1
               1
               1
               1
   Patrol units
          35
           36
          37
            37
             37
            40
             40
             40
             40
             40
Public works:
   Street (miles)
        204
         204
        204
          204
           204
          204
           204
           204
           204
           204
   Street lights
     7,500
      7,500
     7,500
       7,500
        7,500
       7,500
        7,500
        7,500
        7,500
        7,500
   Traffic signals
          84
           84
          86
            87
             87
            87
             90
             90
             90
             90
Sewer:
   Wastewater treatment plant
            1
             1
            1
              1
               1
              1
               1
               1
               1
               1
   Sanitary sewers (miles)
        236
         236
        260
          260
           260
          260
           260
           260
           260
           260
   Storm drains (miles)
        140
         140
        148
          148
           148
          148
           148
           148
           148
           148
   Number of pump stations
          37
           35
          37
            37
             37
            37
             37
            37
 
             37
             37
   Maximum daily treatment
      capacity (mgd)
       15.7
15.7
        
       15.7
         15.7
          15.7
         15.7
          15.7
          15.7
          15.7
          15.7
Source:  Various City Departments
Capital Asset Statistics by Function
Last Ten Fiscal Years
FISCAL YEAR
City of San Mateo
219
328 of 356

--- page 329 ---
This page intentionally left blank.
220
329 of 356

--- page 330 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 21-4678
File ID: 24-9415
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
February 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Enforcement - Citation Authority – Ordinance Introduction
RECOMMENDATION:
Introduce an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Section 1.04.050(a), “Enforcement - Citation Authority”
BACKGROUND:
San Mateo Municipal Code Section 1.04.050(a) provides authorization for specified employees to issue administrative 
citations in order to enforce various provisions of the Municipal Code. Section 1.04.050(a) requires an update to allow 
Public Works staff to enforce San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.35, as well as other sections relating to solid waste, as 
required by state law and as further described below.
Approximately 20 million tons of organic debris goes into landfills in California every year. As this material decomposes, it 
releases methane (a potent greenhouse gas), accounting for 20 percent of the state’s methane gas emissions. In 
September 2016, SB 1383 (Lara) titled “California's Short-Lived Climate Pollutants Reduction Act” was passed and 
established statewide methane gas emission reduction targets. SB 1383 is the largest waste diversion legislation passed 
in the last thirty years and will reduce greenhouse gas emissions, improve soil conditions, reduce the impact of drought 
and wildfire, and increase the life of landfills.
 
Regulations to implement SB 1383 (California Code of Regulations, Title 14, Section 18981 et seq.) were adopted on 
November 3, 2020. SB 1383 regulations require each jurisdiction in California to provide organic collection services to all 
residents and businesses, establish an edible food recovery program, conduct public education and outreach regarding the 
mandates, purchase recycled and recovered organic products to create an organics circular economy, monitor compliance 
and conduct enforcement, maintain records, and report to CalRecycle.
 
SB 1383 regulations also required jurisdictions to establish enforceable requirements for organic waste generators, 
haulers, and other entities subject to City authority by January 1, 2022. More information regarding SB 1383 regulations 
can be found online at www.calrecycle.ca.gov/organics/slcp/.
 
On December 6, 2021, the City adopted San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Chapter 7.35, known as the "Mandatory 
Organic Waste Disposal Reduction Ordinance” (Ordinance) in compliance with SB 1383. SB 1383 allows the City to 
designate a public or private entity to fulfill some of its SB 1383 regulatory responsibilities via contracts or written 
agreements. The City has executed agreements with both the County of San Mateo and South Bayside Waste 
Management Authority (SBWMA) to assist in implementation and compliance. The City also has a franchise agreement 
with Recology San Mateo County.
 
330 of 356

--- page 331 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Pursuant to SB 1383, and SMMC Section 7.35.130(h)-(i), an education period for non-compliance with the Ordinance was 
established from January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2023, and since then the City has been engaged with its 
partners Recology San Mateo County, Rethink Waste, and the County of San Mateo Sustainability Department to provide 
a robust public education and outreach campaign including on-site visits, bill inserts, phone calls, emails, and letters. This 
has been a successful campaign; however, many residential and commercial accounts are out of compliance. 
Enforcement, which is mandated by the legislation, including the imposition of penalties for non-compliance, began on 
January 1, 2024.
 
In a review of the Ordinance, staff found that San Mateo Municipal Code Section 1.04.050(a) needed to update titles in the 
Positions column of the table and add the Waste Management Supervisor’s title to the table to give that position 
enforcement authority. The review also found that relevant staff did not have authority to enforce provisions of the Code 
that are naturally their responsibility. The following Chapters are proposed to be updated in this Ordinance: 7.32 Garbage, 
7.33 Construction and Demolition Recycling Plans, and 7.35 Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal.
 
These changes will authorize appropriate Public Works staff to enforce for illegal dumping in the right of way, which is 
included in 7.32 Garbage, 7.33 Construction and Demolition Recycling Plans, and the enforcement provisions on organics 
and edible food generators in the 7.35 Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal Chapter.
 
In addition, the City experiences many incidences of abandoned shopping carts, and while Streets and Solid Waste are 
often required to pick up these carts, enforcement is handled by the Code Enforcement team in the Community 
Development Department. Solid Waste has been collaborating with Code Enforcement to transfer responsibility for this 
type of illegal dumping to Solid Waste, which is a more natural fit. The proposed amendments to Section 1.04.050(a)will 
add the ability for Solid Waste to enforce the provisions of Abandoned Shopping Carts 17.29.
 
Based on the above, staff recommends the City Council approve introduction of the proposed amendments to San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 1.04.050(a) “Enforcement—Citation Authority.”
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no corresponding budget impact with the amendment of the Ordinance.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This City Council action to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Section 1.04.050(a) “Enforcement—Citation Authority,” is not 
a project subject to CEQA review, because it consists of an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in a 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance 
Att 2 – Proposed Ordinance  – Track Changes 
STAFF CONTACT
Jack Johnson, Waste Management Supervisor
jjohnson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7346
331 of 356

--- page 332 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
Amending Section 1.04.050(a), “Enforcement—Citation Authority” of the San Mateo Municipal Code
WHEREAS, SB 1383 “Short-Lived Climate Pollutants” was adopted by the State of California in 2016, 
implementing a statewide comprehensive strategy to reduce emissions of short-lived climate pollutants; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo adopted the “Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal Reduction 
Ordinance” (SB 1383 Ordinance) on December 6, 2021, as required by SB 1383; and
WHEREAS, the SB 1383 Ordinance provided for enforcement to begin on January 1, 2024; and
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 1.04.050(a) authorizes persons who may issue 
administrative citations to enforce provisions of the San Mateo Municipal Code; and
WHEREAS, the Public Works Regulatory Compliance Division is responsible for enforcing the SB 1383 
Ordinance as well as other San Mateo Municipal Code Sections relating to recycling and solid waste 
requirements, but are not authorized pursuant to Section 1.04.050(a); and
WHEREAS, amendments to the San Mateo Municipal Section 1.04.050(a) are necessary to reflect 
changes in position titles and to authorize appropriate persons to enforce provisions of San Mateo Municipal 
Code relating to the SB 1383 Ordinance, recycling, and solid waste requirements.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Subsection (a) of Section 1.04.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
1.04.050 Enforcement – Citation Authority.
(a) Persons employed in the following positions, or their designees, may enforce the provisions of the 
San Mateo Municipal Code and regulations adopted pursuant thereto by the issuance of administrative citations 
under Chapter 1.10 of this code.
332 of 356

--- page 333 ---
Section 2. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, Section 15378(b)(5), this action to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Section 1.04.050(a) updating 
the authority of persons to enforce various sections of the San Mateo Municipal Code is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment .
Section 3. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 4. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 5. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
Position
Code Title, Chapter, or Section
Community Development Director, Neighborhood 
Improvement and Housing Manager, Sr. Code 
Enforcement Officer, Code Enforcement Officer
Titles 7, 8, 10, 23, 25, 27, Chapters 5.06, 5.64, 5.66, 
Sections 11.40.110, 17.08.010, 17.08.020, 17.08.160, 
17.08.170, 17.08.180(a), 17.20.010, 17.29.040
Building Official, Deputy Building Official, Building 
Inspector
Titles 7, 10, 23, 25, 27
Fire Chief, Battalion Chief, Fire Marshal, Deputy Fire 
Marshal, Fire Inspector, Fire Prevention Inspector
Titles 7, 10, 23, 25, 27
Director of Public Works, Deputy Director of Public 
Works, Construction Inspector, Senior Engineer, 
Regulatory Compliance Manager, Environmental 
Programs Coordinator, Environmental Compliance 
Inspector, Public Works Supervisor, Solid Waste and 
Recycling Programs Coordinator, Waste Management 
Supervisor
Chapters  7.33, 7.35, 7.38, 7.39, 17.08, 17.29, 25.04, 
25.08
Harbor Patrol Officer, Park Ranger, Senior Park 
Ranger, Director of Parks and Recreation
Chapter 13.20, Sections 13.05.010-13.05.030, 
13.25.015
Parks and Landscape Maintenance Manager, Tree 
Maintenance Specialist, Managing Arborist, Director 
of Parks and Recreation
Chapter 13.40
Community Service Officers, Parking Enforcement 
Representative
Titles 11, 17
333 of 356

--- page 334 ---
1.04.050
ENFORCEMENT—CITATION AUTHORITY.
(a) Persons employed in the following positions, or their designees, may enforce the provisions 
of the San Mateo Municipal Code and regulations adopted pursuant thereto by the issuance of 
administrative citations under Chapter 1.10 of this code.
Position
Code Title, Chapter, or Section
Community Development Director, Neighborhood 
Improvement and Housing Manager, Sr. Code 
Enforcement Officer, Code Enforcement Officer
Titles 7, 8, 10, 23, 25, 27, Chapters 5.06, 5.64, 
5.66, Sections 11.40.110, 17.08.010, 17.08.020, 
17.08.160, 17.08.170, 17.08.180(a), 17.20.010, 
17.29.040
Building Official, Deputy Building Official, Building 
Inspector
Titles 7, 10, 23, 25, 27
Fire Chief, Battalion Chief, Fire Marshal, Deputy 
Fire Marshal, Fire Inspector, Fire Prevention 
Inspector
Titles 7, 10, 23, 25, 27
Director of Public Works, Deputy Director of 
Public Works, Construction Inspector, Senior 
Engineer, Regulatory Compliance Manager, 
Environmental Programs Coordinator, 
Environmental Compliance Inspector, Public 
Works Supervisor, Solid Waste and Recycling 
Programs Coordinator, Waste Management 
SupervisorDirector of Public Works, Deputy 
Director of Public Works, Construction Inspector, 
Senior Engineer, Environmental Programs 
Manager, Source Control Inspector, Public Works 
Supervisor, Waste/Recycling Program 
Coordinator
Chapters  7.32, 7.33, 7.35, 7.38, 7.39, 
17.08,17.29, 25.04, 25.08
Harbor Patrol Officer, Park Ranger, Senior Park 
Ranger, Director of Parks and Recreation
Chapter 13.20, Sections 13.05.010-13.05.030, 
13.25.015
Parks and Landscape Maintenance Manager, Tree 
Maintenance Specialist, Managing Arborist, 
Director of Parks and Recreation
Chapter 13.40
Community Service Officers, Parking Enforcement 
Representative
Titles 11, 17
(b) Nothing in this chapter shall diminish or otherwise modify the authority of persons who are 
empowered to enforce the San Mateo Municipal Code because of their status as peace officers or 
because of other authorizing status.
Commented [JJ1]:  7.32 Garbage
7.33 Construction and Demolition Recycling Plans
7.34 (unused)
7.35 Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal
17.29 Shopping Cart Removal, Impoundment, Disposal
334 of 356

--- page 335 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 25-9606
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
February 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Campaign Contribution Limits – Review UPDATED: February 14, 2025
RECOMMENDATION:
Review and provide direction to staff on whether the City's campaign contribution limits and campaign rules should be 
amended, or if no changes should be made; and receive an update on the City's Campaign Finance Dashboard. 
BACKGROUND:
Purpose and Intent of Campaign Finance Regulations:
In 2005, the City Council added Chapter 2.80 to the San Mateo Municipal Code entitled “Contributions and Loans to City 
Candidate Campaigns.” San Mateo's campaign finance regulations aim to uphold election integrity and transparency, 
ensuring fair participation. Rising campaign costs have raised concerns about the disproportionate influence of special 
interests in local elections. To address these concerns, the City established contribution limits to enhance public trust, 
prevent undue influence, and encourage broader citizen participation in campaign financing. 
Chapter 2.80 (Attachment 1) originally established limits on the amount of the contributions from a single source that may 
be made to City Council candidate campaigns to $250 by an individual and $500 by an organization, as well as limiting the 
amount a candidate can loan to their own campaign to $15,000. In 2017, the City Council amended the limits by increasing 
the amount an individual can give to $500 and an organization to $1,000. In 2012, section 2.80.070 was amended to read: 
“Penalties. Any person who violates the provisions of this Chapter is guilty of a public offense.” 
Campaign Activity Analysis (2017-2024):
Section 2.80.080 requires the City Council to conduct a post-election review within three months of election certification. 
This review assesses the appropriateness of the chapter’s provisions, including contribution and loan limits outlined in 
Sections 2.80.030 and 2.80.040. The City Council certified the results of the November 5, 2024 election with Resolution 
110 (2024) on December 9, 2024. See Table 1 for a comparison of campaign funding between 2017 and 2024 below:
At-Large Elections
By-District
2017
2020
2022
2024
Number of Candidates in Contest
7
3
7
3
Contributions - Total Raised *
$191,910
$263,562
$199,036
$146,766.50
Contributions - Largest Total Amount **
$56,332
$118,759
$76,282
$82,800.50
Contributions - Smallest Total Amount **
$0
$69,876
$1,849
$20,909
335 of 356

--- page 336 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
At-Large Elections
By-District
2017
2020
2022
2024
Loan - Largest Amount **
$6,500
$0
$1,500
$5,000
Independent Expenditures – Total * 
$79,710
$74,036
$35,915
$7,467.76
Independent Expenditures - Largest Amount **
$70,468
$30,570
$11,233
$7,467.76
Independent Expenditures - Smallest Amount **
$9,242
$14,767
$4,154
$0
In-Kind Donations – Total *
$3,185
$13,951
$1,207
$35
In-Kind Donations - Largest Amount**
$1,485
$6,890
$927
$35
In-Kind Donation - Smallest Amount**
$500
$400
$140
$0
Average Raised per candidate
$27,416 
$87,854 
$28,434
$48,922.17
Average Independent Expenditure per candidate
$11,387 
$24,679
$5,131
$2,489.25
Average In-Kind per candidate
$455
$4,650
$172
$11.67
*Total of all candidates. **By a single candidate.
Further details of the individual campaign reporting can be found on the City’s website or by contacting the City Clerk’s 
Office.
Statewide Analysis:
All California municipalities have some form of campaign controls in place, due to defaults set in place by state law. As of 
January 1, 2021, a state campaign contribution limit applies by default to city and county candidates, when the city or 
county has not already enacted a law that addresses a local contribution limit on such candidates. The current state 
default limits per contributor are as follows:
Candidate or Officeholder
Person (individual, 
business entity, 
committee/PAC)
Small 
Contributor 
Committee
Political 
Party
City and County Candidates subject to Section 85301 (d)
$5,900
$5,900
$5,900
Senate and Assembly
$5,900
$11,800
No Limit
CalPERS/CalSTRS
$5,900
$11,800
No Limit
Lt. Governor, Secretary of State, Attorney General, 
Treasurer, Controller, Supt. Of Public Instruction, 
Insurance Commissioners, and Board of Equalization
$9,800
$19,600
No Limit
Governor
$39,200
$39,200
No Limit
Common Cause, a nonpartisan 501(c)(4) nonprofit, publishes the California Municipal Campaign Finance Index (MCFI), with 
its most recent update in 2024. The report provides a comprehensive analysis of municipal campaign finance regulations 
across the state. According to MCFI, as of 2022, 124 of California’s 482 cities—representing 44% of the state’s 
population—had self-imposed contribution limits lower than the AB 571 limit, which was $4,900 at the time. Among these 
124 cities, which have an average population of approximately 140,000, the average contribution limit was $711. 
Including cities with the default AB 571 contribution limits and those with self-imposed limits, 82% of these cities adjust 
contribution limits to follow changes in the Consumer Price Index (CPI). San Mateo does not pin contribution limits to CPI 
changes. As of 2022, there were 40 cities or 8% of California cities with limits on the amount of money a candidate can 
loan to their campaign. San Mateo limits candidate loans to $15,000.
Using MCFI data, the following section outlines 8 key findings on five-member by-district City Councils, including an 
overview of their existing campaign finance regulations:
▪
Finding 1. 22 (81.5%) of the 27 cities have individual donor limits 
▪
Finding 2. $1,233.18 is the average self-imposed donor limit among the 22 cities with individual donor limits
▪
Finding 3. For cities with a comparable population size to San Mateo (within 20% of its population), the average 
336 of 356

--- page 337 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
donor limit per individual is $768.
▪
Finding 4. 2 (7.4%) of the 27 cities, including San Mateo, have different contributions based on the type of giver 
(i.e. individual or organization).
▪
Finding 5. 12 (44.4%) of cities adjust limits to inflation.
▪
Finding 6. 9 (33.3%) of cities limit loans on candidate campaigns.
▪
Finding 7. 3 (11.1%) of the cities have voluntary expenditure limits.
▪
Finding 8.  None of the 27 cities have public financing. 
City
Population
Public 
Financing
Donor 
Limits
Different 
limits 
based on 
the giver 
(e.g., 
political 
committee 
vs 
individual)
Limits 
Adjust to 
Inflation 
or 
Deflation
Limits 
Apply to 
Multiple 
Committee 
Types
Limits on 
Candidate 
Loans to 
his/her 
Campaign
Voluntary 
Expenditure 
Limits
Alhambra
82,868
No
$250
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
Arcadia
56,681
No
No
No
No
No
No
Yes
Buena Park
84,034
No
$4,000
No
No
No
Yes
No
Burlingame
31,386
No
$350
No
Yes
No
Yes
No
Cathedral City
51,493
No
$2,500
No
Yes
No
No
No
Claremont
37,266
No
$250
No
No
No
No
No
Concord
125,410
No
$1,000
Yes
No
Yes
No
No
Dana Point
33,107
No
$880
No
Yes
No
No
No
Davis
66,850
No
$150
No
No
No
No
No
Folsom
80,454
No
$150
No
No
Yes
Yes*
No
Hesperia
99,818
No
$500
No
No
No
No
No
La Mirada
48,008
No
No
No
No
No
No
Yes
Menlo Park
33,780
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
Montebello
62,640
No
$5,000
No
Yes
No
Yes*
No
Murrieta
110,949
No
$1,310
No
Yes
No
No
No
National City
56,173
No
$1,000
No
Yes
No
No
No
Novato
53,225
No
$750
No
Yes
No
Yes
No
Pacifica
38,640
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
Rohnert Park
44,390
No
$500
No
No
No
No
No
Roseville
147,773
No
$500
No
Yes
No
No
No
San Juan Capistrano
35,196
No
$610
No
Yes
No
Yes
No
San Mateo
105,661
No
$500
Yes
No
No
Yes
Yes
Seal Beach
25,242
No
$500
No
No
Yes
No
No
South Pasadena
26,943
No
$1,000
No
No
No
No
No
Victorville
134,810
No
$4,900
No
Yes
No
Yes
No
West Covina
109,501
No
$530
No
Yes
No
No
No
Woodland
61,032
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
Voluntary Expenditure Limits:
San Mateo’s Voluntary Expenditure Limits program was introduced in 2024 to provide City Council candidates with the 
option to cap their campaign spending in exchange for public recognition on the City’s website, digital newsletter, and in a 
newspaper of general circulation. The initial spending limit was set at $2.50 per resident in each electoral district, using the 
2020 U.S. Census population data to determine the maximum allowable expenditures. Certain expenses, such as filing 
fees, legal costs, and post-election events, are excluded from this limit.
337 of 356

--- page 338 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
For the 2024 election, two of the three candidates agreed to the spending cap of $54,000 for District 2 and $49,700 for 
District 4. 
As outlined in the ordinance, these limits will be reviewed and adjusted for inflation on January 1, 2026, based on changes 
in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the San Francisco Bay Area. The updated expenditure ceilings will be published by the 
City Clerk no later than February 1, 2026, ensuring the program remains reflective of economic conditions while continuing 
to promote fair and transparent elections.
Campaign Dashboard
In an effort to enhance public transparency into candidate campaign finances, the City Council directed staff in 2021 to 
develop a Candidate Finance Dashboard as part of its review of Municipal Code 2.80, “Contributions and Loans to City 
Candidate Campaigns.” The City Clerk’s Office led an interdepartmental effort to create the Campaign Finance Dashboard, 
which was first launched for the November 8, 2022, General Election. To date, it remains the only campaign disclosure 
dashboard available within San Mateo County, providing voters with interactive visualizations of campaign finance activity.
For the November 2024 election, the Campaign Finance Dashboard has been updated to reflect the latest candidate 
finance reports, offering voters a clear and accessible overview of financial activity. The dashboard details the amounts 
received and spent by candidates and includes user-friendly breakdowns of contributions, loans, debts, liabilities, and 
expenses. This tool continues to support transparency and informed decision-making for San Mateo voters.
The Campaign Finance Dashboard also provides users with a clear breakdown of contributions by contributor type, helping 
voters understand the sources of campaign funding. Candidates may receive contributions from individuals, committees, 
338 of 356

--- page 339 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
businesses, self-contributions, and other entities, and the dashboard visually represents these proportions for easy review.
For the November 2024 election, this feature has been updated with the latest campaign finance data, ensuring that users 
can explore the most recent contribution patterns for each candidate. By offering this level of transparency, the dashboard 
continues to support informed voter engagement in San Mateo’s elections.
The campaign dashboard also provides users with the ability to see the proportion of contributions provided to candidates 
by range of dollar amount, including small (under $100), medium ($100 to $499), and large ($500) contributors. 
A frequent question regarding campaign contributions is where the funding originates. To address this, the Campaign 
Finance Dashboard includes bar chart and mapping visualizations that categorize contributions based on the donor’s 
location. Contributions are grouped into five categories: within the City of San Mateo, within San Mateo County but 
outside City limits, within California but outside San Mateo County, outside California, and unknown locations.
For the November 2024 election, this feature has been updated with the latest contributor location data, allowing users to 
analyze where candidates are receiving financial support. These visual tools help voters better understand the geographic 
distribution of campaign funding and enhance transparency in local elections.
339 of 356

--- page 340 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

Contributions by Location

Daly City

e
South San Francisco
e
San Bruno

e
Millbrae @ Burlingame
e

Hillsboroug!

Council Candidates
BB Nicole Fernandez
I Charles Hansen

1) Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Hi NoonT
8 Yes onT

ter City

Belmont

SanMateo @

San a)

Half Moon Bay

Redwood City

ee Palo Alto
Menlo Park

Portola Valley

© 2025 Mapbox © OpenStreetMap

From San Mateo County /
Outside City of SM:

From California / Outside
San Mateo County:

From Out of State:

Location Unknown:

* The data in these visuals cover all reported monetary and non-monetary contributions, but do not include loans or independent

expenditures.

Contributions by Location

Location of Contributions

Il City of San Mateo

BB San Mateo County outside City limits
©) California outside County Limits

BB Unknown

© Outside California

Candidate Name/

Contest Position
Council Nicole Fernandez |
District 2
Charles Hansen | i
Council Danielle
District 4 Cwirko-Godycki

General Plan NoonT

Land Use
Measure
Yes onT
$o $40,000 $80,000 $120,000 $160,000 $200,000 $240,000
Total Contributions
. California . . San Mateo
Contest cnet Name/ outside City ean cane County Unknown Grand Total
sition County Limits outside City li..
Council Nicole Fernandez 26,330 21,175 2,460 26,228 6,634 $82,826
District 2
Charles Hansen 1,050 13,031 750 3,000 3,078 $20,909
Council Danielle 9,750 20,769 1,800 6,700 4,013 $43,032
District 4 Cwirko-Godycki ‘ ‘ / . ‘ ‘
General Plan NoonT 3,160 22,020 200 1,270 $26,650
Land Use
Measure Yes onT 98,850 89,195 22,500 29,800 535 $240,880

340 of 356


--- page 341 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
For the first time, the Campaign Finance Dashboard now includes ballot measure campaign data, providing voters with 
greater insight into funding for local measures. Similar to candidate contributions, this feature offers bar chart and 
mapping visualizations that categorize contributions by donor location, including within the City of San Mateo, within San 
Mateo County but outside City limits, within California but outside San Mateo County, outside California, and unknown 
locations. With this update for the November 2024 election, users can now track both candidate and ballot measure 
contributions, further enhancing transparency and public understanding of campaign financing in San Mateo. Staff intend 
to further enhance the ballot measure campaign data to include independent expenditures. 
Council Direction Requested:
1.
Alignment of Contribution Limits for Individuals and Organizations:
Currently, San Mateo sets a $500 contribution limit for individuals and a $1,000 limit for organizations. To ensure 
consistency, staff recommend aligning these limits. 
2.
Adjustment of Contribution:
Research indicates that San Mateo’s contribution limits are lower than those of comparable cities (including, for 
example, Redwood City which has a $1,000 contribution limit). Staff requests input on whether the individual 
contribution limit should be increased from $500 to $750, $1,000, or another amount to remain consistent with peer 
jurisdictions.  These limits were last adjusted in 2017 to $500, which at that time is equivalent to approximately $650 
today.  
3.
Review Process for Contribution Limits:
Currently, contribution limits are reviewed only after each election. Staff seeks direction on whether to continue 
this approach or adopt an automatic adjustment based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for more consistent 
updates.
General Feedback:
4.
Voluntary Expenditure Limits:
Staff will proceed with the next scheduled adjustment to the Voluntary Expenditure Limits in 2026, as outlined in 
the ordinance. However, staff welcomes feedback on the initial rollout of the program to assess its effectiveness 
and consider any potential refinements.
5.
Campaign Finance Transparency:
Staff have successfully operationalized the Campaign Finance Dashboard and has received positive feedback from 
California Common Cause and other agencies. Moving forward, staff plan to enhance the tool further, including 
increasing public awareness of the dashboard. Staff welcomes input and feedback on its functionality and 
potential improvements in campaign finance transparency.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact associated with this post-election review.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This review is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Municipal Code 2.80
341 of 356

--- page 342 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
342 of 356

--- page 343 ---
 	
 	

	 

  !"# $% & 
 
'
()*+,-.0123(456789:6845;<5=
>4<5;64(86?(<5=8=<6@(<AB<8C5;
012313D3E85=85C;<5=B:7B4;@1
   	 	F FG	H	H			FF	 FF
FI  H F	FJ    	
	
FG H I	IJ  F FFF	
F	GHG	I	J	 H		IH			F		FF
	FFI			HG	I		 	H 
FF!
KL
   	 	F H	IH			FFMF
 FF			HIH	F G GF 	 
F	FF	 	GFI G				FF
F!
KL
F   I		HNFO		GGI		 
			H	IH	F!
KL
   	 	F 	H	F		II	F 
F		F IH	F	F	I				 	FFP
F IG 	F HF		H	FFQ
	F 	 	P	IFFG FN
		F!
KL
R#SP"T#U
 	

T	Q
R"
343 of 356

--- page 344 ---
 	 
    
 
     

   

     
!"#$"$!$ &'()*+*,)-"
.   /012 4056/789  :  
         ; 
    < .  =>? 	 ;     
@5A1BC8D15 ECF78DG7D/ @CH7 I74/1CD JKLLL  9   :    M
 

  /012 4056/789   :    :N
 OPO  ;         ; P; 9  :
:  Q    Q   P; 9  :   
 Q  R
9  : 	      ;  
   
  Q  R
 :  

  		       ;
P; 

 OP O       ;  ; ; 
    S; :     :  Q	  R


 OPO   
;9  	   9  
;    ;  

;9    
  Q  
; R
   R   
         	      
 
 

 TR
  
 9 OO    R
 
              
  Q	  R
9   ; 	    ;   ; 
      	        Q 9 
   	   	        


U  OO     
;  ;  
     
    ; 	   	     
V
   W 
 
  
       : ; 	
 	  ;   ;  ; 
    
XX9 YN= .Z
P;  [ Z \: \;
NQ
XY
344 of 356

--- page 345 ---
 	 
  	   		  	   
 
   

 	   

  
     
  


 	   


  "#  $%$&'( ) $*   "#  $%$+'$& ) +*  , -../01 2 1
34564676 9:;:<=<:>?@ >? A>?<B:CD<:>?@4
 E  	 	  	 		 
F    


       	    

 		 	 
 
  	   G G		   	 
   
	  H I/....

 E  	 	   		 
F    


       	    

 		 	 
 
     G G		   	 
  
   H I1.....

 J      H  	
    		   
  G K-   

 L 	
 
    		  	     M

	    M
 G 
    	 G  		  
       G   

  "#  $%$&'( ) &*   "#  $%+N'$ ) +*  , -../01 2 1
OPQRR TUVUPUWXUR
YZ[\]#^ $ _% %_%`ab
-c1.c-/ de.f Jg
h  i g jG j
e	F
kcd
345 of 356

--- page 346 ---
 	
	
 ! ""!#$%
&'()*+++,++!- ,
./,,0++)1(2(,3
456779:;:5:<=:7
>?@ABCDFGHIGIHIJKL
 MNNOPNQRSTUTVTUROSWXRSTUY
Z %#"!!!"A[B\@[K]A?^*_ `%_
 %$ )+a
.3
b$-"!cd
#"*!cd

#"#!!!%#" ##$$%!e
.#3
Z-",
.(3
f!c%#"-",
.03
b$% !c g#"# `
$ *#"$#!!!,
.3
h#" #!c `%##
!!!%#"$ `%!c `%
#*"!c#"1 g!
,
.3
f!!!#""#"#`'(+++#" ,
.3
.i^jGkCGFIFlmnopqi^jGkCGFIFrmFloF,3
0s(+s0)*te+ufv
h$wvx%x#
#"e#g
yst
346 of 356

--- page 347 ---
 	
	

 !" "#$ #! !"%"&!"''" #$(
 !" ' "#$ "$)"## %"*+'*% " #! (
,-./02304546789:;-./0230454<74696;='(>(?@@ABCDC(E
 FGHI	
GH


J"!!"''" #!   K $K*!#>%)?@?L+"'"!K $
K*!##!  " +"##+   % $# %" "M  ! $
!#N+"' ! $!#NM &"%'')$ K $M   !"''" 
M##  #* "#$#%  !"%"&O' *"!!'"!M  #* "$!"%"&
O' *#%    ! "')$#* ("&%  #* "#$#% 
!"%"&O' *"## " "##O' *!*')$ !"''"  
!"''" P
!%%  *  !"''"!$"'"##!#*'"##*!O' * " "
!"''" !"''" P
!%%  Q*'  **"   K"#"R# !"#S%
T! CUVL+""%''+M  O' *"%"')"  #&
%" "(
,"E
W '"M"#R'XM  ,YE)*'"$"  '"'# #%" 
"M  ! $!#N+"!"''"  " *#$"!! ' #* "$!"%"&
O' *#% M##",CE * $  $ ! $!#N "  $"'!''  
"!!  #* "$!"%"&O' *#% (!"''" "## " )#'
")'&)$ O' *#% (
,)E
K"''" M"& ")')$ #* "$!"%"&O' *#% "##!
 ##M&) "'! " !   %#X
,!E
K $P
M) M##!#"#$' $M!!"''" ""&'  #* "$
O' *#% (
,CE
K $M##*)# &*#"'& "#M#  M!!"''" ""&'  
#* "$O' *#% (M##)*)#' M!,!"  O *)#&"'
M#  "  M '"M"#'"'!M )"## "%"#' ' (E
,?E
?ZC@Z?A+[X@UT\
K $]"\" ^"M^)"$
")* X)#"N
AZ[
347 of 356

--- page 348 ---
   		 
	    

  	 	   
   	 
 	

 		  	 
 
 

       	  		   

	 		  ! "	 
   		    #$%& 

   		    	      ! 	 
'   		  		     	 	  

	
 		      	! 		 
	       

 
	 	  
 	    (     
		 #)&&(  	   *&   		 
    
  +  
)
 ,  - )( $&$*(   	! 		  .  
 
 	   
       	    +
/ ,  (     01  		    + / ,    
	
  2+ 3
  ( ,  +(     		  
..	 4 5  
     01      
   6 $&$    
	(  - )( $&$*(   	! 		
4  	 
 	       01 
6 $&$ 7 6 $&$%   		       		
#)&&   	! 		 
	  4 
 	   	 
/ )   . 
$
  		 		     	 
 
 	8

 /	  	   ( 	  
   +  + 

    (    	   
 
        &   

,
 	        	     

  

 6.      / 0		 0 
3
$9)&9$%( :8&;  <
  + <  
8	!
*9:
348 of 356

--- page 349 ---
 	
  


  	  


 
	 
 		
    !"# 	
$%	
& ' 		
&    ' 
	 '

%	%  ' 
	 
%  '	 	
# ' (	'	
 
( )* '$  ' +	,

-
(%&  ' 		


 . % 
 ' +	,
 (	# 
%
/
 . % 	
 ' +	,
 &$ %	&	 
(0 
%
*
 . (%%  
(  &
 	$	
  $		

1
2345 6!5 7879:; < =
>?@A?ABA DEFGEHIDJEK JILMN HJGNI OHIDJE?
P
 %%		
   ' Q%	 
% 
	 	%%  		
    RS3# ' +	

 Q 	
& $	 	
  $  Q
 T$	%		
  - 
 	
T$
	
  '
	 	#  ' 
 		
    RS3 U$' 	
 Q 	
$% -	
& 
Q 	
	
& %  Q 	
T$
	
 
% ' 	 Q 	 V'	
&
	
   RS3 '  %Q%  	  $	  %Q& 
 '  ' +	  
 ' 

 ' 
  
	
W% V *XXY/ Z /
*[/X[*Y# \X] ^
+	  U
 ^ _( _	
$
-
)[\
349 of 356

--- page 350 ---
 	

 !"$ %&'()**+,-
./(0123145647489:;<-=->??@ABCB-D
 EFGHIJGKELMINKIO
=.PDQ,,*R,,
RR*,QQ+,<SRRT,<RR*,,<
 !"$ %&'(-U**,RR*,
,<)) !"$ %&'(S,*<)S+*Q<S
Q*,+*<Q+<V,41W515X5<41W515Y5-
.D
=<),<SRRTZ
*,<
Q<,<*+[,RRT,Q,
-
.+D
./(01231454674X8Y:;<-=->??@ABCB-D
 \]M	^
_
`,,< !"$ %&'(+,<<+<<
, !"$ %&'(,<,+,
-
.;<-=->??@ABCB-D
>aB?a>@Sbc?de
RVeff+
+*c+T
bab
350 of 356

--- page 351 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-2031
File ID: 25-9640
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
February 18, 2025 
SUBJECT:
2024-25 Mid-Year Update and Budget Amendments – Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution amending the FY 2024-25 General Fund operating budget to reflect the recommended mid-year 
budget adjustments and receive the FY 2024-25 mid-year budget update.
BACKGROUND:
This agenda report provides a financial update on the City’s major funds: the General Fund and the Sewer Fund. It 
summarizes the City’s mid-year fiscal status by analyzing anticipated revenues and expenditures based on data through 
December 2024 and comparing the projections to the FY 2024-25 budget. 
The mid-year projections incorporate FY 2023-24 results, year-to-date actuals, and new data which were not available 
when the budget was originally developed. The focus of this report is on the General Fund, the City's primary operating 
fund, which accounts for major tax revenues and funds essential city services.
GENERAL FUND
General Fund Revenues 
With over half of the fiscal year’s actual transactions analyzed, the City’s General Fund revenues are now projected to 
exceed the 2024-25 budget by $4.1 million. The adopted budget projected total revenues of $169.8 million. Based on year-
to-date results through December 2024, total revenues are now expected to reach $173.9 million. 
The favorable budget variance is primarily due to higher-than-expected real property transfer tax, partially offset by a 
decline in sales tax projection. The following analysis provides insight into the primary contributing factors to the overall 
revenue forecast.
 General Fund Revenues 
(in millions) 
 2024-25 
Adopted 
Budget 
 2024-25
Mid-Year 
Projection 
 Change in $ 
 Change in % 
Property Tax
84.0
$          
84.0
$          
-
$             
0%
Sales Tax
30.1
27.9
(2.2)
-7%
Real Property Transfer Tax
8.0
14.0
6.0
75%
TOT
4.0
4.0
-
0%
Interest Earnings 
4.2
5.2
1.0
24%
All Other
39.5
38.8
(0.7)
-2%
TOTAL
169.8
$       
173.9
$       
4.1
$             
2%
351 of 356

--- page 352 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PROPERTY TAX - $84.0M ADOPTED | $84.0M PROJECTED 
Property tax is the largest and most stable tax revenue and is expected to meet the $84.0 million budget projection for FY 
2024-25. However, two factors could impact future property tax growth:
High-Interest Rates - Over the past 13 years, the City’s real property assessed values (AV) have grown annually with an 
average 6.7 percent. For FY 2024-25, projected AV growth is 4.8 percent, indicating a slowdown due to high interest rates.  
County Assessor’s data confirmed that secured property tax growth will align with the AV growth. However, if high interest 
rates persist, future property tax growth may be constraint. 
Uncertainty Around VLF shortfalls - Property Tax In-Lieu of Vehicle License Fee (VLF) is a major component of the City’s 
property tax revenue. The County’s VLF shortfall is growing as more school districts shift from non-basic-aid to basic-aid 
status. This issue created two major challenges:  
•
No reliable funding for VLF shortfalls – VLF is funded by ERAF and property tax from non-basic-aid school 
districts. Of the 23 school districts in the San Mateo County, only 5 school districts remain as non-basic-aid 
schools. This has led to persistent VLF shortfalls that require the County to file an annual claim with the State to 
backfill the prior fiscal year’s VLF shortfalls, resulting in a two-year delay in the VLF shortfall payments. The main 
concern is whether the State will backfill the VLF shortfall. If the State refuses to pay its VLF shortfall obligations, 
currently there is no other funding source available to the County and cities to fill the funding gap.
•
VLF shortfalls continue to grow - County-wide VLF shortfalls have grown over the years, from $32.4 million in FY 
2021-22 to $120.8 million in FY 2024-25. As a result, the City’s share of the County-Wide VLF shortfalls also grew 
from $1.9 million in FY 2021-22 to $6.6 million in FY 2023-24 and $7.0 million in FY 2024-25.  
                               
Fiscal Year 
County-Wide VFL Shortfall
City’s VLF Shortfall
City received VLF shortfall (2-Year Delay)
FY 2021-22
$32.4 million
$1.9 million
$2.0 million (FY 2019-20 VFL shortfall)
FY 2022-23
$70.0 million
$4.1 million 
$5.7 million (FY 2020-21 VLF shortfall)
FY 2023-24
$114.4 million*
$6.6 million*
$1.9 million (FY 2021-22 VLF shortfall)
FY 2024-25
$120.8 million*
$7.0 million*
$4.1 million (FY 2022-23 VLF shortfall)
Source of Information: San Mateo County / City of San Mateo        
Note *:  The State has not yet committed to backfill the FY 2023-24 and 2024-25 VLF shortfalls.
The VLF shortfall is expected to grow as the remaining five school districts transition to basic-aid status. A task force, 
including City Managers from cities in the County, is working to advocate for a long-term solution to address this issue.  
Staff will continue to monitor developments and adjust our budget strategies accordingly. 
SALES TAX - $30.1M ADOPTED | $27.9 M PROJECTED 
Sales tax, the second largest tax revenue source for the General Fund, is particularly susceptible to economic cycles. At 
mid-year, sales tax revenue is projected to remain flat at $27.9 million compared to the previous year. At this point, sales 
tax is projecting to miss the FY 2024-25 budget estimate by $2.2 million.  
 
San Mateo’s sales tax base relies heavily on General Consumer Goods (GCG), Restaurants, and Autos. According to the 
City’s sales tax consultant, HdL, the following trends have contributed to the decline in sales tax revenue:  sales tax from 
GCG and autos has declined since FY 2023-24, and San Mateo’s decline in GCG is consistent with the County and State 
trends. Neighboring cities also reported similar trends.  In a high-inflation and high-interest rates environment, electronic-
appliance, specialty and home furnishing stores were hurt the most when consumers refrained from spending on 
discretionary items. Autos, especially high-end auto dealerships, have been hindered due to shifting consumer behaviors 
and persisted high interest rates. Sales tax from fuel and service stations also declined due to lower gas prices and reduced 
gas consumption. In addition, as online sales tax is first accumulated at the County Pool and then allocated to cities based 
on local sale tax amounts, declines in sales tax also reduced the City’s allocation from the County Pool.  
Staff will continue to monitor the sales tax trends and adjust the forecasts as needed.
352 of 356

--- page 353 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
REAL PROPERTY TRANSFER TAX - $8.0M ADOPTED | $14.0M PROJECTED 
Real property transfer tax (RPTT), the third largest tax revenue for the General Fund, is highly volatile and subject to 
economic cycles. At mid-year, regular RPTT (0.5 percent) is projected to remain at $8 million, in line with the budget 
projection. However, Measure CC RPTT, an additional 1 percent RPTT applies to properties sold or transferred with a value 
of $10 million or more, is outperforming original expectations. At mid-year, the City has already received $4.8 million 
Measure CC RPTT revenue, and expected to reach $6 million by year end. Total RPTT is projected to be $14.0 million for FY 
2024-25.   
OTHER GENERAL FUND REVENUES
Other General Fund revenues are on track to stay within budget, except the following:
•
Business tax is anticipated to be $0.5 million lower than original budget estimate due to anticipated tax 
apportionment adjustments.
•
Golf fees will see a $0.2 million decrease in FY 2024-25 due to temporary closure of the PAR 3 restaurant from 
mid-October 2024 until the restaurant reopen in Fall 2025, resulting in no rental income during this period. 
•
Investment earnings are projected to outperform the original budget by $1.0 million due to favorable investment 
yields in a high-interest rate market.
In summary, VLF shortfalls remain a long-term financial concern; sales tax revenue is underperforming, requiring a $2.2 
million budget adjustment; and Measure CC RPTT is outperforming expectations. Overall, General Fund revenues exhibit 
resilience and are projected to exceed the original budget by $4.1 million in FY 2024-25. Staff recommend increasing the 
General Fund revenue budget by $4.1 million to align with the mid-year projections.
General Fund Expenditures
The adopted 2024-25 budget included $180.4 million in General Fund total expenditures (including transfers out). Since 
July 1st, 2024, several budget appropriations have been approved by Council (Pools and Par 3).  As such, the current budget 
stands at $183.9 million. Based on December 2024 year-to-date transactions, total expenditures are projected to be 
$180.3 million, a favorable budget variance of $4.0 million.  The majority of the favorable budget variance stems from 
vacancy savings, which is spread throughout all departments. 
353 of 356

--- page 354 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Since local government expenditure budgets (appropriations) serve as the legal level of budgetary control, it is common 
that some level of savings will be realized in any fiscal year. Although departmental budgets were analyzed for both 
underfunded operating needs and anticipated budgetary savings, the focus was on ensuring budget adequacy for General 
Fund operations for the remainder of the fiscal year.  
As such, based on the mid-year review, the following General Fund operating budget adjustments are recommended:
•
City Clerk’s Office – Increase election budget by $137,000.  
The County’s Elections Office has informed the City that the November 2024 election costs will range between 
$281,000 and $337,200, exceeding the current budget of $225,000. This original budget included $200,000 for 
County election costs and $25,000 for anticipated translation, legal advertising, and mailing expenses related to 
election. Staff proposed to increase the General Fund operating budget by $137,000 to ensure adequate budget 
for election-related costs.
•
Public Works:  Re-appropriate $224,000 for the wet weather preparation. 
$224,000 in unspent funds allocated for wet weather preparation in FY 2023-24. These funds were not utilized due 
to project delays: Marina Lagoon Diesel Engines repairs - overhaul services were delayed due to the scheduling 
lead times, and Marina Lagoon’s new rectifier and upgrade to new programming platform – procurement was 
delayed due to insufficient staff resources. The proposed budget amendment, if approved, will carry forward 
$224,000 unspent funding to FY 2024-25 to ensure sufficient funding for Public Works to complete the preparation 
works.
Comparison with Prior Estimates
With the mid-year updates, the General Fund is projected to generate $173.9 million in total revenues and incur $180.3 
million in total expenditures (including transfers out), resulting in a $6.4 million deficit for FY 2024-25.
 
Due to budget savings from operating expenses and improved revenue projection in certain categories, the projected 
deficit is smaller than the $10.6 million deficit in the adopted budget and the $14.1 million deficit in the current budget. 
However, the City faced a $5 million budget shortfall last year, and at mid-year, it is projecting another $6.4 million deficit. 
Given the ongoing shortfall, staff are working on a financial sustainability plan to address the structure deficit issue.
 Gneral Fund Expenditures 
(in millions) 
 2024-25
Adopted 
Budget 
 2024-25
Current 
Budget 
 2024-25
Mid-Year 
Projection 
 Change in $  Change in % 
Salaries and Wages
56.1
$             
56.6
$             
55.6
$             
(1.0)
$                
-1.8%
Benefits
23.5
23.5
23.0
(0.5)
-2.1%
Pension UAL
13.0
13.0
13.0
-
0.0%
Non-Personnel Operating 
40.1
40.6
38.5
(2.1)
-5.2%
SMC Fire and legacy cost
36.1
36.1
36.1
-
0.0%
Transfer Out
11.6
14.1
14.1
-
0.0%
TOTAL
180.4
$          
183.9
$          
180.3
$          
(3.6)
$                
-2.0%
 General Fund 
(in millions) 
 2024-25
Adopted 
Budget 
 2024-25
Current 
Budget 
 2024-25
Mid-Year 
Projection 
Revenues
169.8
$          
169.8
$          
173.9
$          
Expenditures (including 
transfers out)
180.4
183.9
180.3
Deficit
(10.6)
$           
(14.1)
$           
(6.4)
$              
354 of 356

--- page 355 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
General Fund Balance
The General Fund beginning balance was $118.0 million (per audited 2023-24 financial report).  The projected General 
Fund ending balance as of June 30, 2025 is $111.6 million.
A General Fund Reserve Policy Study Session is scheduled for March 2025 to seek Council direction on right-sizing the 
General Fund reserves and establishing a policy framework for General Fund reserve management, usage, and 
replenishment, to ensure the City’s financial stability and sustainability.
SEWER FUND
The Sewer Fund has maintained sufficient liquidity to support ongoing operations and critical capital improvement 
projects. The approved 3 percent annual sewer rate increase (effective FY 2023-24 through FY 2027-28) provide necessary 
funding to complete the construction of the new wastewater treatment plant, replacing the City’s aging treatment facility, 
improve the City’s sewer collection system to address regulatory requirements and minimize potential for sanitary sewer 
overflows, fund ongoing rehabilitation of aging sewer pipelines, and support ongoing operations of the City’s sewer 
enterprise.
For FY 2024-25, the Sewer Fund budget includes $91.9 million in total revenues, $57.9 million in total expenses, and $28.1 
million of new funding added to the Sewer Fund’s capital budget for capital improvement projects (CIP).
Through mid-year review, Sewer Fund revenues are expected to be within budget assumptions, with exception of 
investment earnings, which are projected to exceed budget estimates. As a result, total Sewer Fund revenues are now 
projected to be $95.8 million for FY 2024-25. Operating expenses are estimated at $55 million, lower than the current 
budget largely due to estimated vacancy savings. CIP spending is anticipated to increase as the City nears completion of 
the Wastewater Treatment Plan expansion project. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
If approved, the proposed budget amendments will increase the General Fund revenue budget by $4.1 million and 
increase the General Fund operating budget by $361,000, with $137,000 to the City Clerk’s Office for election costs and 
$224,000 to Public Works for wet weather preparation.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This mid-year budget update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not 
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution for FY 2024-25 Mid-Year Budget Amendments 
STAFF CONTACT
Karen Huang, Finance Director
khuang@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7110
355 of 356

--- page 356 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
APPROVING MID-YEAR BUDGET ADJUSTMENTS FOR THE GENERAL FUND 
FOR FISCAL YEAR 2024-25
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of San Mateo adopted the Fiscal Year (FY) 2024-25 budget, which 
includes General Fund revenue and expenditure appropriations; and
WHEREAS, based on a mid-year review of General Fund financial activities through December 2024, 
General Fund revenues are now projected to total $173.9 million, exceeding budget estimates by $4.1 million, 
primarily due to higher-than-expected Real Property Transfer Tax (RPTT) revenue; and
WHEREAS, total General Fund expenditures are projected to be $180.3 million, resulting in a favorable 
budget variance, primarily due to vacancy savings across departments; and
WHEREAS, the City Clerk’s Office requests an increase of $137,000 in its operating budget to cover 
election expenses; and
WHEREAS, the Public Works Department requests a re-appropriation of $224,000 in unspent FY 2023-24 
funds for wet weather preparation. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that:
1.
This City Council action is not subject to CEQA review because it is a government fiscal activity which 
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant 
physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4)). 
2.
Budget amendments to the General Fund revenues are approved as follows:
a)
Increase real property transfer tax revenue budget by $6.0 million;
b)
Decrease sales tax revenue budget by $2.2 million;
c)
Increase investment earning budget by $1.0 million;
d)
Decrease business tax revenue budget by $0.5 million; and
e)
Decrease golf revenue budget by $0.2 million.
3.
Appropriations to the General Fund operating budget are approved as follows:
a)
Increase City Clerk operating budget by $137,000 for election costs; and
b)
Increase Public Works operating budget by $224,000 for wet weather preparations. 
356 of 356