source: packet.pdf
sha256: bb0908ee1f49bfc26683dac643de0c2bb822a9baabb659dbe7f00090d1e74004
pages: 42
ocr_pages: 16
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Legislative Committee 
September 9, 2024
5:30 PM
City Hall, Conference Room C
 
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
Mayor Lisa Diaz Nash
Deputy Mayor Rob Newsom, Jr.
AGENDA
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
 
NEW BUSINESS
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the Council's consideration of these items.
1.
Recommendation on Statewide Ballot Measures
Review the statewide propositions on the November 5, 2024 General Election ballot and make a
recommendation for Council to consider supporting, opposing or taking no position.
2.
H.R.6639 - Poverty Line Act of 2023
Review H.R.6639 - Poverty Line Act of 2023 and make a recommendation for Council to consider supporting,
opposing or taking no position.
3.
SB-969 Alcoholic beverages: entertainment zones: consumption
Review SB-969 and make a recommendation for Council to consider supporting, opposing or taking no position.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this
meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
1 of 42

--- page 2 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 24-9101
TO:
City Council Legislative Committee
FROM:
Martin McTaggart
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
September 09, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Recommendation on Statewide Ballot Measures
RECOMMENDATION:
Review the statewide propositions on the November 5, 2024 General Election ballot and make a recommendation for 
Council to consider supporting, opposing or taking no position.
BACKGROUND:
It is the policy of the City Council that the Council be involved in the development of the City's position on significant 
pending federal and state legislation. The City Council's Legislative Committee, comprised of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor, 
is charged with making recommendations for Council consideration to support, oppose, or remain neutral on proposed 
legislation.  
Propositions on the November 5, 2024 ballot: (information on these propositions can be found in Attachment 1 – Easy 
Voter Guide): 

Proposition 2
Legislative Statue
Bonds for Public School & Community College Facilities

Proposition 3
Legislative Constitutional Amendment
Guarantees Marriage Equality

Proposition 4
Legislative Statute
Bonds for Safe Drinking Water, Wildfire Prevention, and Climate Programs

Proposition 5
Legislative Constitutional Amendment
Decreases Vote Requirement for Local Housing & Infrastructure Bonds  
2 of 42

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

Proposition 6
Legislative Constitutional Amendment
Ends Forced Labor of People in Jails & Prisons

Proposition 32
Initiative
Raises the Minimum Wage

Proposition 33
Initiative
Local Governments and Rent Control

Proposition 34
Initiative
Restricts Spending of Profits from Selling Prescription Drugs

Proposition 35
Initiative
Permanent Tax to Support Medi-Cal

Proposition 36
Initiative
Increase Penalties for Theft and Drug Crimes
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact associated with this item.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Easy Voter Guide
Att 2 - League of California Cities Press Release
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
3 of 42

--- page 4 ---
EDUCATION FUND

¥ Easy Voter Guide | Weer

easyvoterguide.org

YOUR VOTE. YOUR VOICE.

November 5, 2024 = California General Election

ARE YOU SIGNED October 21,2024 Last day to register to vote in this election.

UP TO VOTE? November 5, 2024 ELECTION DAY Your voting location is
open from 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.

GET READY:

m™ Register to vote m™ Check your registration to make sure it’s = If you want to get voting
by October 21 at up to date. If your signature has changed materials in a language other
registertovote.ca.gov. over time, then re-register to update your than English, make that choice

signature at voterstatus.sos.ca.gov. at voterstatus.sos.ca.gov.

Esta guia también esta disponible en espanol =» ~ATEMtLA HICH

Huéng dan nay ciing co san bang tiéng Vidt = 0] SHAE StStojeS ASZelcH

ABOUT THE EASY VOTER GUIDE

The Easy Voter Guide is made possible in part by the U.S. Institute of Museum and Library

Services under the provisions of the Library Services and Technology Act, administered in Give your opinion JS

California by the State Librarian. The League of Women Voters® of California Education Fund 1 1
is a 501(c)(3) nonpartisan organization that encourages informed and active participation in about this guide at

government and works to increase understanding of major public policy issues. For a more easyvoterguide.org

accessible version of this guide, visit easyvoterguide.org/plaintext.



--- page 5 ---
& Help for Voters
WHAT'S (UX) For voters

The state of California wants to make it easier to vote. Now, every registered voter in California will receive a
ballot in the mail about a month before Election Day. You can choose to return the ballot by mail, drop it off,
or instead vote in person. Read page 11 for more details.

MISSED THE OCTOBER 21 VOTER REGISTRATION DEADLINE? NO PROBLEM! YOU CAN STILL VOTE IN THIS
ELECTION! If you missed the deadline, go to any Voting Location. You can register and vote on the same day -
all the way up through Election Day. If possible, find your assigned location at findmypollingplace.sos.ca.gov.
Go to that Voting Location to make sure you get a ballot with all your local contests.

No Longer in Prison? Once you have been released from prison in California your right to vote is automatically
restored — you just need to register to vote. You may vote while you are on parole, but cannot vote if you are
currently serving a state or federal prison sentence.

HELP FOR VOTERS

VOTE411 makes it easy to see

VOTE411, an online election guide from everything that will be on your ballot, 59411

including national, state and local
the League of Women Voters candidates and measures. Type in your

home address at VOTE411.org.

The Secretary of State’s guide includes voting resources,
Official Voter Information Guide from detailed information about the state propositions, and
the California Secretary of State statements from candidates. Find the Official Voter

Information Guide online at voterguide.sos.ca.gov.

County Elections Offices Find your County Elections Office online
at sos.ca.gov/county-elections-offices.

* About the November 5, 2024 General Election

In this “general” election, voters will:
™ Choose a President, a U.S. Senator, and Representatives in U.S. Congress and the California State Legislature.
= Vote “YES” or “NO” on 10 proposed state laws for California.
=m Vote for other candidates and proposed laws depending on where you live.

Every registered voter will get a Voter Information Guide in the mail that lists everything they can vote on.

You do not have to vote on everything. Your votes still count even if you choose to skip some things on
your ballot.

WHAT’S INSIDE THIS GUIDE

About this General Election ............................ 2-5 = Ways to Vote 2c cccce cee ec vec eee ete ess 11
State Propositions ....0..0....0..0. cece cece eee 5-10 Voting is Easy as 1-2-3 0c 12
2 ©2024 Easy Voter Guide California General Election - November 5, 2024

5 of 42


--- page 6 ---
or President and Vice President

In this election, the country will elect a President and a Vice President for a four-year term. The candidates for
President and Vice President will run together as a pair. You can vote for one pair.

THE PRESIDENT THE VICE PRESIDENT
Oversees most federal departments = Takes over if something happens to
Approves or rejects new laws the President

Presents a budget each year = Runs meetings of the U.S. Senate
to Congress = Attends important events for the President

Is in charge of foreign policy and = Has other duties chosen by the President
the armed forces

How We Elect the President

You can think of the election for President as 51 separate elections (one for each state and Washington, D.C.).
To win a state, a candidate must win the majority of the people’s votes — which is called the popular vote.
In most states, the winner of the state’s popular vote takes all of that state’s electoral votes.

Each state has a certain number of electoral votes, based on how many people live in the state. States with the
most people have the most electoral votes.

The total number of electoral votes from all the states is 538. To become President, a candidate must win at
least 270 electoral votes. In December, after the General Election, the “Electoral College” officially counts the
electoral votes (even though we already know who the winner is). The winner will take office in January 2025.

Your vote for President really matters because just a few people’s votes can decide if a candidate wins all of a
state’s electoral votes. Elections for President have been very close, and each state makes a big difference.

Electoral Votes by State

ALASKA 12 4
4 3 AK 4
8 10 41
3 15 x4

6 5 6 47 19 7

6 19 |11\ °c 2 SS"
54 10 6 10 8 133 140

16 3

sawai |”. 7 \=, poeta
4 6| 9 \ 16
40 8
30
California General Election - November 5, 2024 ©2024 Easy Voter Guide 3

6 of 42


--- page 7 ---
“A Your Representatives in Government

How You’re Represented in U.S. and State Government

Offices that represent Offices that represent a
everyone in California specific district in California

= U.S. Representative
. if}t222 in Congress
= President oe: (2 year term)

(4 year term) . .
= California State
; Senator
= United States 7 (4 year term; odd-
Senator ; numbered districts
(6 year term) . iCyssist will be voted on in
this election)

= California State
Assembly Member
(2 year term)

.
++o4
+++

.
+
+
oe
++

Represent the Help develop
eran people from their the federal budget
REPRESENTATIVES : Be seas ai 3
California district in and U.S. policy
Washington, D.C. priorities.

Work with other
U.S. Representatives
to make new laws and hold hearings.

Every state has two U.S. Senators. They are each elected for a six-year term.

Help develop
the federal budget
and U.S. policy
priorities.

U.S. Represent the
SENATORS ee0ce people of their state in
& Washington, D.C.

Work with other U.S. Senators to make new
laws, hold hearings, and approve judges and other
appointments.

4 ©2024 Easy Voter Guide California General Election - November 5, 2024
7 of 42


--- page 8 ---
* Voting for Candidates & Proposed Laws

Voting for Candidates
The way we choose our President is different from the way we choose other candidates in California.

HOW WE ELECT HOW WE ELECT
The President ™ U.S. Senator & U.S. Representative
§ California State Senator

§ California State Assembly Member
Each of California’s six political parties has a

candidate running for president. The parties The two candidates who got

are: American Independent, Democratic, Green, the most votes in the March “
Libertarian, Peace & Freedom, and Republican. primary election are running a _
These candidates were chosen from each against each other. —
political party. That process usually occurs during It is possible that these two candidates could be
the March primary election. from the same political party.

Voting for Proposed Laws (Propositions)
California voters will also make decisions on 10 proposed state laws (propositions):

= Prop 2 - Bonds for Public School & Community = Prop 6 - Ends Forced Labor of People in Jails & Prisons

College Facilities = Prop 32 — Raises the Minimum Wage

= Prop 3 - Guarantees Marriage Equality
= Prop 4 - Bonds for Safe Drinking Water, Wildfire
Prevention, and Climate Programs

= Prop 33 — Local Governments and Rent Control

= Prop 34 - Restricts Spending of Profits from Selling
Prescription Drugs

= Prop 35 — Permanent Tax to Support Medi-Cal
= Prop 36 — Increase Penalties for Theft and Drug Crimes

= Prop 5 - Decreases Vote Requirement for Local
Housing & Infrastructure Bonds

\ TRACK MY After returning your ballot, check WheresMyBallot.sos.ca.gov to find out

BALLOT where your ballot is in the process and when it has been accepted.

* State Propositions

Propositions are proposed laws presented to the public to vote on. Propositions can make new laws, change
existing laws, and sometimes they change California’s Constitution. They can be placed on the ballot by people
who collect enough voter signatures or by state lawmakers (the California Legislature). A proposition passes and
becomes law if it receives more than 50 percent YES votes.

Propositions 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 were placed on the ballot by the State Legislature. The other Propositions have been
placed on the ballot by people who collected enough signatures.
= A YES vote means that you support the way the proposition would change things.

=» ANO vote means that you want to leave things the way they are now.

There are 10 state propositions in this election. You do not have to vote on everything.

Learn about propositions that are important to you and make your choice, YES or NO.

California General Election - November 5, 2024 ©2024 Easy Voter Guide 5
8 of 42


--- page 9 ---
* State Propositions

Bonds for Public School & Community College Facilities Legislative Statute

The way it is now: One of the ways the state government supports schools is by providing money to help build and
repair buildings. This money usually comes from bonds which are sold to raise money and then are repaid over time.

What Prop 2 would do if it passes: Prop 2 would allow the state to sell © People for People against
$10 billion in new bonds to help build and repair schools, including: Prop 2 say: Prop 2 say:
= $8.5 billion for K-12 schools. e Prop 2 will allow ¢ Prop 2 makes
ae F the state to taxpayers pay
m $1.5 billion f ty coll .
$ ee es ee — make California’s bond interest for
Some of the K-12 money can be used for building pre-K classrooms, schools and many years.
gyms, or kitchens. The state will pay for up to 5% more of the costs it .
— community * The bonds will
for school districts that are smaller, have more low income students,
aan a ; colleges safer. Qe wiesisiull
and have more difficulty raising money through selling bonds. . g °
e Prop 2 will help construction
Effect on the state budget: The state would spend about $500 million pay for badly projects instead
per year for the next 35 years to repay the bonds. The effect on local needed teppei of classroom
governments would depend on the choices that school districts and and security instruction.
community colleges make about repairs and new buildings. Improvements.

Guarantees Marriage Equality Legislative Constitutional Amendment

The way it is now: The California Constitution says that only marriage between a man and a woman is legal.

In 2015, the U.S. Supreme Court decided that it is unconstitutional to outlaw same-sex marriages anywhere in
the United States, and that same-sex couples must be treated the same as opposite-sex couples. California now
allows same sex marriages to be performed.

What Prop 3 would do if it passes: Prop 4 would ves) People for People against

take out the unconstitutional part of the California Prop 3 say: Prop 3 say:
Constitution that limits marriage to a “man and ° Prop 3 protects the ¢ There is no need to

a woman,” and put in words that say the right right of people to get change California’s

to marry is a fundamental right. This will allow married regardless of Constitution because
marriage no matter what someone’s gender, sexual gender or race. same-sex marriage is
orientation, or race Is. ona Callizonnta already legal.

Effect on the state budget: Prop 3 would have Constitution should * Prop 3 removes all rules
no change in income or costs for state and local affirm marriage equality for marriage, opening the
governments other than the costs needed to place which is the law of the door to child marriages,
the measure on the ballot. United States. incest, and polygamy.

WHAT IS A BOND?
Bonds are a way for governments to borrow money. The government sells

bonds to get money now and pays them back with interest over many years.

6 ©2024 Easy Voter Guide California General Election - November 5, 2024
9 of 42


--- page 10 ---
* State Propositions

Bonds for Safe Drinking Water, Wildfire Prevention, and

. Legislative Statute
Climate Programs i

The way it is now: The state pays for activities to conserve natural resources and to protect people from damage caused by
climate change. The activities can be projects to increase the amount of safe drinking water or protect against wildfire or
flooding. Sometimes cities and counties or other organizations also work to protect natural resources. The state may provide
grants and loans to them to do the work. Bonds may be sold to raise money for the activities and then are repaid over time.

What Prop 4 would do if it passes: The state would sell $10 billion in
new bonds to fund:

= $3.8 billion for water projects.
= $2.7 billion for wildfire and coastline protection.
= $1.2 billion toward fish and wildlife.

Other programs that would receive money are parks, agriculture and
energy, and helping people deal with extreme heat. At least 40% of
the bond money must fund activities to help communities that are
low-income or ones that are more likely to suffer from problems
caused by climate change.

Effect on the state budget: Prop 4 would increase state costs about
$400 million annually for 40 years to repay the bond plus interest.
Activities that protect natural resources could reduce state and local
costs of dealing with damage from natural disasters.

& Infrastructure Bonds

Decreases Vote Requirement for Local Housing

ves) People for
Prop 4 say:

protect our
communities,
health, and the
economy.

e This bond will
provide money
for water, to

and to protect
us from climate
change.

© Prop 4 will help

prevent wildfire,

People against
Prop 4 say:

e Bonds are the
most expensive
way to fund
government
spending and
should not
be used.

Prop 4 provides
funding for
unproven
technologies with
no real evidence
of success.

Legislative Constitutional Amendment

The way it is now: Cities, counties and special districts can borrow money by issuing bonds and then repay it by

increasing property taxes. The bond money can be used for projects such as building roads, fire stations and water
treatment plants. It can also be used to help pay for housing for people with low-incomes, people with disabilities,
and those at risk of homelessness. Current law requires 66.7% of voters to vote “yes” to pass a local bond measure

that will increase property taxes to repay the bonds.

What Prop 5 would do if it passes: Prop 5 would lower the
voting requirement so that some types of local bond measures
could pass with 55% of the vote. This lower voting requirement | e
applies to housing program bonds for low-income families,

seniors, people with disabilities, veterans, and other groups.

For example, bond funding can be used for programs that help
low-income people with down payments for housing. It could

also be used to improve infrastructure for police, flood and fire
protection, libraries, public health, and public transit.

Effect on the state budget: This measure has little effect on the
state budget but will impact local budgets. Prop 5 could increase
local borrowing to fund affordable housing, supportive housing,
and public infrastructure. The amount of increased borrowing
would depend on decisions by local governments and voters.
Borrowed funds would be repaid with higher property taxes.

California General Election - November 5, 2024

ves) People for
Prop 5 say:

Prop 5 gives local
communities more

tools to make housing

affordable with
programs to help
first time buyers and
to build and repair
affordable housing.

Prop 5 will allow local

voters to address
community needs
such as housing and
safe streets.

People against
Prop 5 say:

e Prop 5 changes
the California
Constitution which
has protected
everyone from
high debt caused
by bond issues.

e Prop 5 pushes the
cost of building
and maintaining
infrastructure onto
local governments
and their taxpayers.

©2024 Easy Voter Guide 7

10 of 42


--- page 11 ---
* State Propositions

Ends Forced Labor of People in Jails & Prisons

Legislative Constitutional Amendment

The way it is now: The California Constitution prohibits “involuntary servitude” except as punishment for a crime.
Involuntary servitude is when a person is forced to work. Currently 16 states, including California, permit the use
of involuntary servitude as punishment for a crime. In the last few years, voters in Alabama, Oregon, Tennessee,

and Vermont removed involuntary servitude language from their state constitutions.

What Prop 6 would do if it passes:

m= Amend the California Constitution to prohibit involuntary
servitude for any reason.

= Prohibit the California Department of Corrections and
Rehabilitation (CDCR) from disciplining people in prison
who refuse a work assignment.

m Allow the CDCR to reduce prison time for people who
voluntarily accept work assignments.

Effect on the state budget: The effect of Prop 6 on state and
local costs are uncertain. It will depend on how rules about work
for people in state prison and county jail change. Any effect is
unlikely to be more than tens of millions of dollars annually.

Raises the Minimum Wage

ves) People for
Prop 6 say:

e Prop 6 restores
human dignity by

which constitutes

human rights.

e Prop 6 improves
public safety
by focusing on
rehabilitation of

ending forced labor,

slavery and violates

incarcerated people.

People against
Prop 6 say:

e No argument
against Prop 6
was submitted.

Initiative

The way it is now: In California, the statewide minimum wage is $16 per hour. This wage goes up each year
to match the cost of living. State law sets a higher minimum wage for some industries. For example, fast food
workers are paid $20 per hour. Some California cities set their own minimum wage laws which can be higher

than $16 per hour.

What Prop 32 would do if it passes: Prop 52 would raise
the minimum wage to $18 an hour for all employers by
2026. The wage would be adjusted for the cost of living e
each year after 2026. The new law would not lower what
is being paid to people who already earn more than

$18 per hour.

Effect on the state budget: Higher wages for state and
local government employees will increase government
costs. The money the state collects from taxes will likely
decrease because some businesses will make less money.
If wages are higher, fewer people will qualify for health
care and food programs, like Medi-Cal and CalFresh,
which could save the state hundreds of millions of
dollars to over $1 billion a year.

ves) People for
Prop 32 say:

Raising the minimum
wage will improve the
standard of living for
millions of workers
and promote economic
fairness.

People will make
more money so they
can afford housing
and food which makes
everyone better off.

People against
Prop 32 say:

e Raising the minimum
wage will hurt
businesses, raise
prices, and cause
job losses.

¢ Governments may
have to cut services
and raise taxes if
they pay more
for wages.

8 ©2024 Easy Voter Guide

California General Election - November 5, 2024

11 of 42


--- page 12 ---
* State Propositions

Local Governments and Rent Control

Initiative

The way it is now: Some cities have “rent control” laws that limit how much landlords can increase rents each
year. State law prevents rent control on single-family homes and housing built after early 1995. It also prevents
local governments from telling landlords what they can charge when a renter first moves in. Courts have said that
landlords must be allowed to increase rents enough to be able to make some money each year.

What Prop 33 would do if it passes: Prop 33 would remove the law that
prohibits rent control on single-family homes and housing built after
early 1995. This means that local governments would be more free

to create their own rent control rules and could apply them to single-
family houses. Local rent control laws would still have to allow landlords
to make some profit each year. Prop 33 would also stop the state from
passing any laws to limit local governments from having rent control.

Effect on the state budget: This measure has little effect on the
state budget but will impact local budgets. The impact would
depend on how many cities and counties pass rent control laws and
what landlords do. The measure would likely decrease the money
local governments get from property taxes. This decrease could be
in the tens of millions of dollars each year. Cities or counties will
also need to spend money to enforce rent control laws. These costs

will likely be paid by landlords.

Prop 33 will
allow local
communities to
vote on whether
and how they
control rents.

ves) People for
Prop 33 say:

e Prop 33 will
allow local
governments to
protect renters
and keep them
housed while
more affordable
housing is built.

Restricts Spending of Profits from Selling Prescription Drugs

People against
Prop 33 say:

e Prop 33 will
increase costs to
build housing,
causing developers
to build less and
making California’s
housing crisis
worse.

e Prop 33 will
drive up costs
for renters and
home buyers.

Initiative

The way it is now: Medi-Cal is a program that provides health-care coverage for people with low income. A federal
discount drug program requires drug makers to provide reduced-price drugs to healthcare providers who treat
low-income people. These providers are allowed to charge people with private insurance higher prices than people
with Medi-Cal. The goal is to give healthcare providers extra money to serve low-income people. The money
earned may be used for any purpose that the provider chooses.

What Prop 34 would do if it passes: Prop 54 creates
new rules about how certain health-care providers
can spend money earned from the discount drug
program. The rules apply to providers that spend
more than $100 million over 10 years on things
that are not related to direct patient care and that
operate housing units with at least 500 serious safety
violations. If these providers do not spend at least
98% of the money on direct patient care, they could
lose their licenses and be banned from receiving
government contracts and grants.

Effect on the state budget: Costs might be in the
millions of dollars to identify and punish providers
who violate the law. The state will likely pay for
those costs by fining those providers.

California General Election - November 5, 2024

ves) People for
Prop 54 say:

© Prop 34 will make
sure that money
from the discounted
drug program is used
for direct patient
healthcare, not for
other purposes.

Prop 34 will make the
drug discount program
permanent so that
discount drugs will
always be available for
Medi-Cal patients.

People against
Prop 54 say:
Prop 34 is an
attack by wealthy
landlords against
one healthcare
provider that supports
rent control.

Federal law permits
the profits from

drug company
discounts to be

used to support any
non-profit mission of
healthcare providers.

©2024 Easy Voter Guide 9
12 of 42


--- page 13 ---
* State Propositions

Permanent Tax to Support Medi-Cal

Initiative

The way it is now: California’s Medi-Cal program provides health services to over 15 million low-income people.
Services are provided through “managed care organizations” (MCOs) such as Kaiser or Anthem Blue Cross. The
federal government pays for 50-70% of the Medi-Cal program. California pays for the rest. For the past 20 years,
a temporary tax paid by the MCOs has been used to help pay for California’s share of Medi-Cal. This tax will
expire at the end of 2026 unless the California Legislature and federal government approve it again.

What Prop 35 would do if it passes: Prop 35 would change
the temporary tax that helps fund Medi-Cal to a permanent
tax on MCOs. It will also create new rules for how the tax
money can be spent. The tax money would be required to
support Medi-Cal and other health programs and would not
be available to put into the general California state budget.

Effect on the state budget: In a few years, funding for
Medi-Cal and other health programs would increase by
about $2 to $5 billion per year. State costs will increase
by $1 billion to $2 billion annually to cover some existing
Medi-Cal services not included in Prop 35.

ves) People for People against

Prop 35 say: Prop 35 say:

e Prop 35 will support
health services that

help low-income people.

e¢ No argument
against Prop 35
was submitted.

e Increased funding will
allow higher payments
to healthcare workers
and improve access to
doctors and other health
services for people with
low income.

Increase Penalties for Theft and Drug Crimes

Initiative

The way it is now: Felonies are considered severe crimes. Less severe crimes are misdemeanors. In 2014 voters passed
a law that turned nonviolent crimes like drug possession and shoplifting into misdemeanors unless someone has prior
convictions for serious crimes. Money saved from fewer people in prison is used for mental health and drug treatment,

programs to keep kids in school, and victim services.

What Prop 36 would do if it passes: Prop 36 turns some misdemeanors
into felonies, can lengthen sentences, and requires some sentences be

served in prison instead of jail. For example:

m Someone with 2 past theft convictions who shoplifts could get a

4-year felony sentence.

People against
Prop 36 say:

ves) People for
Prop 36 say:

e Prop 36 © Prop 36 would
would make make California
communities less safe by

safer and hold

stopping crime

= A person who gives or sells an illegal drug to someone who suffers

a major injury from using it could receive a longer sentence. This repeat thieves

prevention and

includes drugs like psychedelic mushrooms. axccouiritelblle. hug fvesienrei
rer ° Prop 36 will PUnekg| edits
= |f someone with past drug convictions holds drugs like fentanyl ke thi © Prop 36 id
or cocaine, they could be charged with a felony. They could be make thieves rop 26 WOU
and drug cost taxpayers

required to receive treatment, and have charges dismissed when
complete. If treatment is not completed or they are not eligible
for treatment, they could be sent to jail or prison.

billions to

imprison more
people without
reducing crime.

dealers serve
tougher felony
sentences.

Effect on the state budget: There will be increased state and local costs
for prisons, jails, and mental health and drug treatment. State costs for

mental health and drug treatment, programs to keep kids in school, and
victim services will be reduced.

10 ©2024 Easy Voter Guide California General Election - November 5, 2024

13 of 42


--- page 14 ---
4 Ways to Vote

Every registered voter in California will receive a ballot in the mail about a month before the election.

There are 3 ways to vote. You can choose to mail back your ballot, or drop it off, or you can vote in person
at a Voting Location.

VOTE-BY-MAIL

MAIL YOUR BALLOT BACK EARLY! You can fill it in and mail it back as soon as you receive it.
No stamp? No problem. You do not need a stamp to mail back your ballot.

Mark your ballot and seal it inside the envelope provided

Follow the directions on the ballot to mark your choices.

Check that you are using the return envelope with your name on it.

Put your ballot into the envelope & seal. Only 1 ballot in each envelope.

Sign and date the envelope

A Date and sign your name carefully on the back of the envelope using ink.
= ll

SS Return your ballot on time

Mail your ballot back early because it must be postmarked by Election Day,
is || November 5.

OR DROP OFF YOUR BALLOT

If you decide to hand in your ballot instead of mailing it, you must drop it off no later than
8PM on Election Day, November 5.

Drop off your ballot at any Voting Location or secure Ballot Dropbox in your county.

For details and locations check caearlyvoting.sos.ca.gov.

At in-person Voting Locations you can:

m™ Vote in-person. = Drop off your completed ballot.
=™ Vote with an accessible ™ Get help and voting materials in
voting machine. multiple languages.

Early voting, starting before Election Day, will be available in some locations.
Find Early Voting and Ballot Dropbox locations at caearlyvoting.sos.ca.gov.
Find your Voting Location at findmypollingplace.sos.ca.gov.

MADE A MISTAKE? YOU CAN GET A REPLACEMENT BALLOT.

To get a new ballot contact your County Elections Office before Election Day or go to
your Voting Location when it opens and ask for a replacement.

California General Election - November 5, 2024 ©2024 Easy Voter Guide 11
14 of 42


--- page 15 ---
CALIFORNIA GENERAL ELECTION

4 e °
~ Voting is as easy as 1-2-3! TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2024

SIGN UP

¢ You are eligible to vote if you are a U.S. citizen, 18 years or older, not currently serving a state or federal
prison term for the conviction of a felony, and not currently found “mentally incompetent” to vote by a court.

e You must register to get on the official list of voters. The deadline to register is October 21.

¢ You can pick up a voter registration form at your library or post office, have a registration form mailed
to you by calling 1-800-345-8683, or fill out the form online at registertovote.ca.gov.

¢ Missed the deadline? You can still register and vote in this election at any Voting Location. If you go to your
assigned location, then your ballot will be sure to include all the contests on which you're allowed
to vote. Check findmypollingplace.sos.ca.gov.

¢ Once you are on the list, you only need to re-register if you change your address, change your name, want
to change your political party, need to update your signature, or because you are no longer in prison or on
parole for a felony.

GET READY

¢ Before you vote, it helps to learn about what you will be voting on.
¢ In addition to a ballot, all registered voters will receive two things in the mail:
1) a County Voter Information Guide that lists everything that will be on your ballot.
2) a second Voter Information Guide from the state about statewide candidates and measures

¢ In addition to this Easy Voter Guide, you can visit VOTE411.org for more information 4i1
about everything on your ballot.

VOTE!

e If you are already registered to vote, you will receive a ballot in the mail. If you wish to use the mailed
ballot instead of voting in person, fill it out and mail it back early so that it is postmarked no later than
Election Day. You may also drop it off at any voting location in your county on Election Day. Your county
will open secure ballot drop box locations starting about a month before Election Day.

e You choose whether to vote in-person at your Voting Location or use a “vote by mail” ballot.

¢ For voting in person on Tuesday, November 5, the polls are open from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m.
You may also be able to vote before Election Day. Check caearlyvoting.sos.ca.gov.

¢ For information on voting locations, dates, and hours check findmypollingplace.sos.ca.gov.

VOTING TIPS

¢ If you choose to vote in person, it may help to bring the ballot that was mailed to you.

¢ If you don’t bring your mailed ballot, some counties will require you to vote using a provisional ballot that
will be counted once elections officials check that you are eligible to vote.

¢ If you live in one of the following counties, you can get a regular ballot at any Vote Center, even if you
didn’t bring the ballot that was mailed to you: Alameda, Amador, Butte, Calaveras, El Dorado, Fresno,
Humboldt, Kings, Los Angeles, Madera, Marin, Mariposa, Merced, Napa, Nevada, Orange, Placer, Riverside,
Sacramento, San Benito, San Diego, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Santa Cruz, Sonoma, Stanislaus, Tuolumne,
Ventura, and Yolo.

12 ©2024 Easy Voter Guide California General Election - November 5, 2024
15 of 42


--- page 16 ---
9/6/24, 12:46 PM Cal Cities leadership votes to back three November ballot measures | Cal Cities

LEAGUE OF
CALIFORNIA
CITIES

Cal Cities leadership votes to back
three November ballot measures

Jul 17, 2024

Among the supported measures is an initiative backed by district attorneys anda
long-awaited climate bond

By Rachel Vincent, director of strategic communications and marketing

(mailto:https://www.calcities.org/staff/rachel-vincent)

The Cal Cities Board of Directors last week voted to support three ballot
measures, including Proposition 36 (https://voteyesprop36.com/league-of-california-
cities-votes-in-support-of-yes-on-proposition-36-an-initiative-for-safer-california-
communities/) . The district attorney-sponsored ballot measure would create a
deterrent for repeat retail theft offenders and redirect some towards treatment
rather than incarceration.

“Protecting the safety and economic well-being of our communities is a top
priority for Cal Cities,” said Cal Cities President and Fowler Mayor Daniel Parra.
“This proposition gives us an important tool for improving safety in our cities.”

The Board also voted to support Prop. 4
(https://www.latimes.com/california/story/2024-07-08/2024-california-election-
proposition-4-climate-bond-voter-guide) , a $10 billion climate bond. The measure
would channel funding to communities for various programs aimed at mitigating
the impacts of climate change.

https://www.calcities.org/home/post/2024/07/1 7/cal-cities-leadership-votes-to-back-three-november-ballot-measures f 1/4
16 of 42


--- page 17 ---
17 of 42

--- page 18 ---
18 of 42

--- page 19 ---
19 of 42

--- page 20 ---
20 of 42

--- page 21 ---
21 of 42

--- page 22 ---
22 of 42

--- page 23 ---
23 of 42

--- page 24 ---
24 of 42

--- page 25 ---
25 of 42

--- page 26 ---
26 of 42

--- page 27 ---
27 of 42

--- page 28 ---
28 of 42

--- page 29 ---
29 of 42

--- page 30 ---
30 of 42

--- page 31 ---
From: Rachel Monaco
To: City Council (San Mateo)
Ce: Tracy Weatherby
Subject: RE: Support for the Poverty Line Act (HR6639)
Date: Monday, September 9, 2024 2:38:32 PM
Attachments: image00i.png

image002.png

image004.pnq

image005.png

image006.pna
Dear Members of the San Mateo City Council,

| am writing to you on behalf of Second Harvest of Silicon Valley to request that your
Legislative Committee and City Council choose to support the Poverty Line Act (H.R.
6639), authored by Representative Kevin Mullin.

Second Harvest of Silicon Valley provides direct food assistance to more than
500,000 people every month, including 127,000 residents of San Mateo County. Our
service level is 2x what it was prior to the pandemic, and we do not anticipate to see a
decline anytime soon.

Additionally, our Food Connection team supports our community with applying for
CalFresh, a federal nutrition benefit program. Eligibility for CalFresh, like other federal
assistance programs, is based on the Federal Poverty Line, which does not take into
consideration our area’s high cost of living. Most households must earn under 200%
of the FPL to be eligible, which is about $5,000 in gross monthly income, or $60,000
annually, for a family of four. The Silicon Valley Index, produced by Joint Venture
Silicon Valley, estimates that as much as 24% of adults and 34% of children in Silicon
Valley are at risk of food insecurity but ineligible for federal benefit programs due to
their earnings.

Modernizing the Federal Poverty Line to reflect the lived reality of our neighbors
would provide greater access to governmental safety net programs and more visibility
into the level of need in areas like ours.

Thank you,
Rachel Monaco

Rachel Monaco (she/her)
Senior Manager, Policy & Advocacy

31 of 42


--- page 32 ---
our Th MAKE A

POLS DIFFERENCE

dt
eee

32 of 42


--- page 33 ---
; eK
= Build Up AWK
(J San Mateo County S

Child Care Coordinating Counc!

September 9, 2024

The Honorable Lisa Diaz Nash, Mayor
City of San Mateo

330 West 20th Avenue

San Mateo, CA 94403

Re: Letter of Support for a legislative endorsement of Congressman Mullin’s Poverty Line Act
Dear Mayor Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor Newsom, and Councilmembers Lee, Loraine, and Hedges,

Build Up San Mateo County, a collective impact multi-sector initiative designed to preserve, expand and improve the
supply of child care facilities in San Mateo County, along with partner, Child Care Coordinating Council (4Cs) of San Mateo
County, is writing to support a legislative endorsement of Congressman Mullin’s Poverty Line Act.

This legislation would update the way the Federal government calculates the federal poverty line by accounting for real
costs and adjusting for regional differences. This would make millions of more families eligible for safety net programs,
including Medicaid, SNAP (food stamps), LIHEAP, and many others.

Specifically, the Poverty Line Act would:

e Replace the outdated federal poverty line so that, for the first time, it is regionally adjusted and more accurately
reflects the cost of living, including housing, food, clothing, phone, internet, health care, and, for families with
children, child care costs;

* Prevent any individual from losing eligibility for a program based on the new calculation methodology if they were
eligible under the old;

« Ensure the poverty line is no lower than it is today anywhere in the country;

e Require the Office of Management and Budget to report to Congress on how federal law should be updated to reflect
the new calculation where, for example, program eligibility is based on a percentage of the old poverty line; and

* Ensure that the new methodology is reviewed at least once every four years to determine whether it is still reflective
of what households need to meet their basic needs and to identify additional changes needed in the future.

We are excited about this legislation because it includes regional calculations, ensuring counties like ours with a high cost
of living receive an accurate local poverty line calculation. In San Mateo County, the Real Cost Measure for a family of four
is over $140k. We know 28% of San Mateo County residents fall below the Real Cost Measure. Many of these families do
not qualify for safety net services despite struggling to meet basic needs.

We appreciate your continued leadership on this important issue and stand ready to assist you to support children and
families in the City of San Mateo. If you need further information, please don’t hesitate to contact us by emailing

cpadilla@sanmateo4cs.org.

Most gratefully,

Christine Padilla David Fleishman
Director, Build Up SMC Executive Director, 4Cs of San Mateo County
Chair, Child Care Partnership Council Access Committee

Sobrato Center for Nonprofits | 330 Twin Dolphin Drive, Suite 119, Redwood City, California 94065
650.517.1436 |buildupsmc@sanmateo4cs.org | www.buildupsmc.org

33 of 42


--- page 34 ---
34 of 42

--- page 35 ---
35 of 42

--- page 36 ---
36 of 42

--- page 37 ---
37 of 42

--- page 38 ---
38 of 42

--- page 39 ---
39 of 42

--- page 40 ---
40 of 42

--- page 41 ---
41 of 42

--- page 42 ---
42 of 42