source: packet.pdf
sha256: d23215b4ad8a91e45dbf6c09bff55483d4c240c579e5f535a5248a407ac17069
pages: 15
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission Special
Meeting
November 8, 2022
6:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Margaret Williams, Chair
John Ebneter, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
Martin Wiggins
AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: November 8, 2022
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 895 9611 2300      Passcode: 918535
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
NEW BUSINESS
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the Council's consideration of these items.
1.
Due Process Training
Review of Due Process Requirements for the Planning Commission.
ADJOURNMENT
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting

--- page 2 ---
Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
Prasanna W. Rasiah, City Attorney
With thanks to Jarvis, Fay & Gibson, LLP
Colantuono, Highsmith & Whatley, PC
and The California Municipal Law Handbook (Cal CEB)
3 of 15

--- page 4 ---
Due 
Process 
Defined
• U.S. Const. 5th and 14th Amendments; 
Calif. Const. Art. I Sec. 7
• Substantive Due Process
• prevents unreasonable and arbitrary 
legislation
• Procedural Due Process
• provides opportunity for notice and hearing 
before a neutral decision maker prior to 
action 
No deprivation of life, liberty, or 
property without due process of law
4 of 15

--- page 5 ---
When 
Does Due 
Process 
Apply?
Legislative Acts 
• Procedural Due Process Generally Not Required
• Substantive Due Process applies
Adjudicative or “Quasi-Judicial” Acts 
• Procedural Due Process is Required 
5 of 15

--- page 6 ---
Ordinances: e.g. amendments to the Zoning 
Ordinance, other Municipal Codes
Resolutions: e.g. General Plan Amendments
Follow Brown Act requirements for notice 
and hearing
Public hearing requirements may also apply
Legislative 
Acts –
Procedural Due 
Process 
Generally Not 
Required
6 of 15

--- page 7 ---
Adjudicative or 
“Quasi-Judicial” 
Acts -
Procedural Due 
Process Is Required
Elements of a quasi-judicial decision:
Involves applying general policy to a 
specific property, individual, interest, or 
situation
Examples – action on a use permit, 
tentative subdivision map, or variance
Notice
Hearing
Findings
7 of 15

--- page 8 ---
Adjudicative or 
“Quasi-Judicial” 
Acts –
Hearing 
Requirements
Opportunity to be heard and present 
evidence (perhaps through counsel) 
before unbiased and impartial 
decisionmakers
(Spoiler alert: bias may require recusal) 
Notice of pending hearings to affected 
people and the grounds asserted for 
proposed actions
Applicant, neighbors
8 of 15

--- page 9 ---
Hearing 
Requirements
Cont’d
Commission decision must be guided by 
evidence at the hearing
No Google/Internet search for information –
may not be accurate or relevant 
– applicant, staff, public may not be able to 
evaluate on the spot
Can request staff to include information in a 
staff report
9 of 15

--- page 10 ---
Hearing 
Requirements
Cont’d
PC Member Conduct During the Hearing
Convey to applicant and public that you are 
listening (body language)
Treat applicant and public speakers with respect 
and courtesy
Refrain from or disclose any ex parte
contacts
10 of 15

--- page 11 ---
Hearing 
Requirements
Cont’d
Limit the use of electronic devices on the dais
Except as necessary to access agenda materials or 
respond to urgent personal matters. 
Evidence of personal bias may require recusal
Test:  unacceptable probability of actual bias
Example: anonymous article in a newsletter!
11 of 15

--- page 12 ---
Hearing 
Requirements
Cont’d
Boards and Commissions – Rules & Procedures
Commissioner conduct – put community 
interests first at all times in decision-making
Keep interest of community at large in mind – avoid 
representing personal interests
Treat each other, councilmembers, staff, and public with 
dignity, courtesy and respect
Encourage diverse viewpoints in debate while being mindful 
not to prolong discourse or block consensus
Keep comments clear, concise, and on-topic
12 of 15

--- page 13 ---
Reasoned decisions based on clear, pre-
existing standards and factual evidence in a 
record that is available for review
Decision must be guided by appropriate 
factors within scope of permitting 
discretion
Don’t consider non-design related issues 
in design review
Decisions 
Must be Clear 
and Well-
Reasoned
13 of 15

--- page 14 ---
Land Use 
Litigation
• A fair hearing may have been denied if:
• There is inadequate notice
• The hearing was unfair, or
• The decision-makers are not impartial
• An “abuse of discretion” is established if:
• The agency has not proceeded in the manner 
required by law
• The order or decision is not supported by the 
findings, or
• The findings are not supported by the 
evidence
Adjudicative or “Quasi-Judicial” Acts –
Court Standard of Review
14 of 15

--- page 15 ---
Contact: Prasanna W. Rasiah
City Attorney
(650) 522-7020
prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org
15 of 15