Columbia Flock cameras sent over 5,500 alerts in first year | Mid-Missouri News | komu.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Sign Up Log In Dashboard Logout My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout WATCH NOW Watch KOMU 8 Live Streaming Newscasts Top Videos from KOMU 8 News Live Event Streaming Mizzou Xtra Home About Us Contact Us Meet the Team Advertise Staying Connected Email Newsletter Contests What's On News Releases Award Winning Journalism Terms of Use Privacy Policy SAP Audio Questions News Mid-Missouri News State News Nation & World News Show-Me Missouri A Closer Look FIFA World Cup 2026 Target 8 Elections Streaming Weather Interactive Radar Closings and Cancellations Weather Maps KOMU 8 First Alert Weather Severe Weather Special Dog Walking Forecast Traffic Sunsense Sports High School Sports Mizzou Xtra FIFA World Cup 2026 Pro Sports Olympics KOMU 8 Cares A Brighter Tomorrow Community Calendar Promote Your Event Daily Pledge Holiday Choirs Tour KOMU 8 Career Connect EMPLOYERS - Add Your Jobs Site search Search About Us Contact Us Site search 80° Clear Columbia, MO (65201) Today Mostly clear. Lows in the middle 70s.. Tonight Mostly clear. Lows in the middle 70s. Updated: July 3, 2026 @ 11:33 pm Full Forecast Sign Up Log In Dashboard Logout My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Email iOS App Android App OTT WATCH NOW Watch KOMU 8 Live Streaming Newscasts Top Videos from KOMU 8 News Live Event Streaming Mizzou Xtra Home About Us Contact Us Meet the Team Advertise Staying Connected Email Newsletter Contests What's On News Releases Award Winning Journalism Terms of Use Privacy Policy SAP Audio Questions KOMU 8 adjusts programming for Fourth of July specials on Saturday Forecast: Small rain chances on 4th of July 18-year-old seriously injured in Lake of the Ozarks boating incident Taylor Swift and Travis Kelce are married in elaborate Madison Square Garden ceremony, Swift's publicist says Mizzou to induct Nicki Webber Moore to Athletics Hall of Fame Mexico lions club says it tried to salvage Fourth of July fireworks after vendor bankruptcy News Mid-Missouri News State News Nation & World News Show-Me Missouri A Closer Look FIFA World Cup 2026 Target 8 Elections Streaming KOMU 8 adjusts programming for Fourth of July specials on Saturday 18-year-old seriously injured in Lake of the Ozarks boating incident Taylor Swift and Travis Kelce are married in elaborate Madison Square Garden ceremony, Swift's publicist says Mexico lions club says it tried to salvage Fourth of July fireworks after vendor bankruptcy Salute to America organizers say heat safety is a priority this year Data center backlash spills into Missouri primaries as GOP candidates demand action Weather Interactive Radar Closings and Cancellations Weather Maps KOMU 8 First Alert Weather Severe Weather Special Dog Walking Forecast Traffic Sunsense +4 Forecast: Small rain chances on 4th of July Forecast: Staying hot and humid into the holiday weekend Forecast: Very warm and mostly dry 4th of July weekend ahead Forecast: Another hot and humid day with slim spot shower chances Forecast: Warm and humid this morning, feels like temps surpass 100 degrees today Forecast: Heat and humidity stick around through the 4th of July weekend Sports High School Sports Mizzou Xtra FIFA World Cup 2026 Pro Sports Olympics Mizzou to induct Nicki Webber Moore to Athletics Hall of Fame Mizzou Athletics to induct Ashley Fleming to Hall of Fame Mizzou's Ahmad Hardy named Walter Camp preseason first-team All-American Team Missouri returns from Special Olympics USA Games with 46 medals LeBron James will leave the Lakers and hit the free agent market, reports say Former Rock Bridge QB finds himself in familiar spot entering year two with NIU KOMU 8 Cares A Brighter Tomorrow Community Calendar Promote Your Event Daily Pledge Holiday Choirs Tour KOMU 8 Career Connect EMPLOYERS - Add Your Jobs Share This Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email First Alert Weather +4 Forecast: Small rain chances on 4th of July 3 hrs ago Columbia Flock cameras sent over 5,500 alerts in first year, report says Cooper Ten Bruin, KOMU 8 Reporter Cooper Ten Bruin Author email Jun 15, 2026 Jun 15, 2026 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Video Player is loading. Play Video Play Unmute Current Time 0:00 / Duration -:- Loaded : 0% Stream Type LIVE Seek to live, currently behind live LIVE Remaining Time - -:- 1x Playback Rate Chapters Chapters Descriptions descriptions off , selected Captions captions settings , opens captions settings dialog captions off , selected Audio Track Picture-in-Picture Fullscreen This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. Text Color White Black Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Opaque Semi-Transparent Background Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Opaque Semi-Transparent Transparent Window Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Transparent Semi-Transparent Opaque Font Size 50% 75% 100% 125% 150% 175% 200% 300% 400% Text Edge Style None Raised Depressed Uniform Dropshadow Font Family Proportional Sans-Serif Monospace Sans-Serif Proportional Serif Monospace Serif Casual Script Small Caps Reset restore all settings to the default values Done Close Modal Dialog End of dialog window. Advertisement Columbia Police Department released its 2025 surveillance technology report, detailing positive outcomes from Flock cameras. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save COLUMBIA — The Columbia Police Department released its 2025 Annual Surveillance Technology Report Sunday detailing successes from the first year of Flock Safety cameras being used to assist the Police Department in proactive policing and post-incident investigations. The city has reached 86% of the planned implementation of Flock Safety cameras, according to the report. The Police Department received 5,521 total alerts from the Flock Safety system in 2025: Warrants - 2,877 hits (52.1%) Stolen license plates - 1,452 hits (26.3%) Stolen vehicles - 1,192 hits (21.6%) Flock Safety cameras are designed to capture objective, vehicle-based evidence and to deliver actionable intelligence to police. Flock Safety collects vehicle data only, with no facial recognition, with data being purged every 30 days. Data is kept within the Columbia Police Department and only shared with other law enforcement agencies within Missouri, according to the Police Department. The report said that in 2025, there were no substantiated complaints regarding the use of Flock Safety cameras. The Police Department said Flock Safety cameras have helped police investigations by improving case solvability by strengthening evidence. These cameras can be used to find vehicles near crime scenes, movement patterns of suspects, clarifying timelines and possibly eliminating suspects. This gives clear evidence to prosecutors, with time stamps, travel direction, and establishing vehicle presence. The cameras give real-time alerts for officers. "When a stolen vehicle, wanted vehicle or vehicle associated with a missing person enters a monitored area, officers receive immediate notification," the report said. "This allows for timely patrol response, targeted enforcement and rapid suspect containment." According to the report, "Flock is a force multiplier, not a standalone solution. It does not prevent crime by itself, nor does it replace traditional investigations, community policing or officer judgment." Success! An email has been sent to with a link to confirm list signup. Error! There was an error processing your request. Today's Top Stories Have the top local news delivered every day to stay informed. Please enter a valid email address. Sign up Manage your lists Flock assisted the Police Department with many cases over the past year. In 2025, when two children were taken from Columbia motel , the Flock system found the car minutes after an Amber Alert was released, according to the Police Department. This information was given to Missouri State Highway Patrol, which located the car 60 miles away from Columbia and arrested the suspect. There were 217 case outcomes from the 5,521 total alerts: Arrest was made - 69 cases (31.8%) Lead generation - 52 cases (24%) Active investigations - 33 cases (15.2%) Unable to locate - 31 cases (14.3%) The Police Department found elevated detection patterns during some parts of the year. According to the report, "Monthly trends indicate elevated enforcement and detection periods during late summer and fall 2025, with peak daily alert volumes exceeding 60-70 hits. These increases are consistent with expanded camera deployment, increased plate-read capture rates and seasonal crime trends." The first year implementation costs will be the highest Columbia pays for Flock Safety surveillance. In 2025, the city spent $584,850 on the cameras, including hardware, installation, software access and initial service. Just over $539,000 of that was funded through police and general city funds, according to the report. An additional $45,000 was contributed by the Parks and Recreation Department for cameras in parks. For fiscal year 2026, $515,000 was used for Flock Safety, with $476,000 of that funded through police and general resources. About $39,000 came from the Parks and Recreation Department. The recurring costs cover continued system access, cloud storage, maintenance, updates and operational support under Flock Safety’s subscription-based model. Columbia's contract with Flock Safety expires March 2027 when the city will renegotiate terms. To report an error or typo, email news@komu.com . Click here to add KOMU 8 News as a source for your Google News Feed . Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Cooper Ten Bruin Author email Follow Cooper Ten Bruin KOMU 8 adjusts programming for Fourth of July specials on Saturday 1 hr ago 18-year-old seriously injured in Lake of the Ozarks boating incident 5 hrs ago Mexico lions club says it tried to salvage Fourth of July fireworks after vendor bankruptcy 7 hrs ago Salute to America organizers say heat safety is a priority this year 7 hrs ago +3 Data center backlash spills into Missouri primaries as GOP candidates demand action 10 hrs ago Bakery pop-up event in Centralia raises money after crash that killed 1 teen, injured another Updated 8 hrs ago 1 Weather Alert See All > Weather Alert ...EXTREME HEAT WARNING REMAINS IN EFFECT UNTIL 8 PM CDT SATURDAY... * WHAT...Dangerously hot conditions with heat index values up to 108. * WHERE...Portions of south central and southwest Illinois and central, east central, and southeast Missouri. * WHEN...Until 8 PM CDT Saturday. * IMPACTS...Heat related illnesses increase significantly during extreme heat and high humidity events. PRECAUTIONARY/PREPAREDNESS ACTIONS... Drink plenty of fluids, stay in an air-conditioned room, stay out of the sun, and check up on relatives and neighbors. Young children and pets should never be left unattended in vehicles under any circumstances. Take extra precautions if you work or spend time outside. When possible reschedule strenuous activities to early morning or evening. Know the signs and symptoms of heat exhaustion and heat stroke. Wear lightweight and loose fitting clothing when possible. To reduce risk during outdoor work, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration recommends scheduling frequent rest breaks in shaded or air conditioned environments. Anyone overcome by heat should be moved to a cool and shaded location. Heat stroke is an emergency! Call 9 1 1. && Currently in Columbia 80°F Clear 91°F / 76°F 12 AM 77°F 1 AM 76°F 2 AM 75°F 3 AM 75°F 4 AM 75°F Detailed Forecast Most Popular Articles Videos Articles Osage Beach reschedules Fourth of July festival to July 11 Boonville man seriously injured after dirt bike collides into go-kart Kehoe signs $50.7 billion state budget, cuts funding to some mid-Missouri programs Fourth of July celebrations in mid-Missouri Community members to protest Columbia's ban on occupying medians No injuries reported in Sunday morning dock fire Protestors push back against new Columbia median ordinance Former Mizzou student gets 10-year sentence in domestic assault plea deal Sting operation leads to multiple arrests for child sexual exploitation felonies Mexico Fourth of July event also hit by fireworks vendor bankruptcy impacts Videos Sections News Sports Weather Traffic Community Calendar What's On KOMU 8 Cares Contests Multimedia Services Promote Your Event Pay An Invoice Search Weather FCC Public Information FCC Online Public Inspection File FCC Applications Contact Information KOMU.com 5550 Hwy 63 S Columbia, MO 65201 Phone: 573-882-8888 Email: news@komu.com Follow Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 KOMU 8 5550 Hwy 63 S, Columbia, MO | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital .