--- page 1 ---
LOCAL // TRENDING
By Catherine Dominguez, Staff Writer
Dec 9, 2025
The Woodlands to boost law enforcement with 30
new Flock Safety cameras around the community
Subscribe

--- page 2 ---
The Woodlands is adding 30 Flock Safety cameras to the community, with law
enforcement planning to have them installed by summer.
The purchase, approved as part of the township’s 2026 budget, will require
$109,500 the first year, with an annual cost of $90,000. The cameras will be
placed “strategically” in and around The Woodlands, officials said.
HEAD TO HEAD: Longtime Justice of the Peace Wayne Mack to challenge
Mark Keough in Republican primary for county judge
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
The Woodlands is adding 30 Flock Safety cameras, seen in this file photo, to the community, with law
enforcement planning to have them installed by summer.
Submitted Flock Safety

--- page 3 ---
“The Flock cameras are an incredible force multiplier,” Montgomery County
Sheriff’s Office Chief Deputy Jonathan Zitzmann said during the township Dec. 4
meeting. “It provides law enforcement with incredible investigative leads to solve
crime.”
Zitzmann said the cameras also deter criminal activity.
Want more Houston Chronicle?
Make us a Preferred Source on Google to see more of us when you search.
Add Preferred Source
The sheriff’s office is working to install the cameras before summer, when “quality
of life crimes,” such as vandalism and panhandling, increase.
Flock Safety is a public safety operating system that uses license plate reading
cameras to provide 24/7 monitoring for police departments, homes, businesses
and neighborhoods. 
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad

--- page 4 ---
While Township Chairman Brad Bailey said the board hasn’t had any negative
feedback about the cameras, the system does have some opposition.
LOOKING AHEAD: Mardi Gras Galveston reveals 2026 dates, headliners. When to
go and who's coming next February.
The American Civil Liberties Union of Texas has raised privacy concerns related to
the cameras.
The organization believes the extensive network of surveillance cameras enables
it to determine where people are in the city, where they are going, and who they
are seeing, according to a previous Chronicle article.
However, Flock Safety officials said that customers, such as the Montgomery
County Sheriff’s Office, own the data collected and have exclusive access to it.
According to the company, every evidence search in the system is logged and
requires a search reason. After 30 days, if that data is not used, it is permanently
deleted.

--- page 5 ---
Dec 9, 2025
Catherine Dominguez
REPORTER
Catherine Dominguez is a Houston Chronicle reporter who covers Montgomery County,
including the city of Conroe and Conroe ISD.
Powered by 
Around the Web
Editor's Picks
BUSINESS
Prepare for your property
tax hearing with TX Tax
ENDORSEMENTS
In Paxton-Talarico race, the
choice is clear |
Endorsement
LISA 
Fal
HIS
goo
Trending Videos
Top

--- page 6 ---
About
Contact
Services
Account
© 2026 Hearst Newspapers, LLC Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
DAA Industry Opt Out
Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)