30 new Flock Safety cameras to be installed around The Woodlands Skip to main content Subscribe Local News Trending Suburbs Education Environment Health & Medicine Weather Politics Houston Texas U.S. & World Business Energy Real Estate Top Workplaces Tech Sports Texans Astros Rockets Colleges High Schools Dynamo & Dash Entertainment Lifestyle & Culture Food Restaurant Reviews Barbecue Recipes Opinion Editorials Letters to the Editor Columnists Interactives Trackers Texas Flood Map Power Outage Tracker Investigations Newsletters The 713 Texas Take Weekend Wrap Classifieds Obituaries Place an Obituary Legal Notices Place Legal Notices Place Agent/Broker Ad La Voz de Houston Visuals Puzzles Podcasts About Us Archive Newspaper Archive Chronicle Shop Privacy Notice Terms of Use Subscribe Local // Trending The Woodlands to boost law enforcement with 30 new Flock Safety cameras around the community By Catherine Dominguez , Staff Writer Dec 9, 2025 The Woodlands is adding 30 Flock Safety cameras, seen in this file photo, to the community, with law enforcement planning to have them installed by summer. Submitted Flock Safety The Woodlands is adding 30 Flock Safety cameras to the community, with law enforcement planning to have them installed by summer. The purchase, approved as part of the township’s 2026 budget, will require $109,500 the first year, with an annual cost of $90,000. The cameras will be placed “strategically” in and around The Woodlands, officials said. HEAD TO HEAD: Longtime Justice of the Peace Wayne Mack to challenge Mark Keough in Republican primary for county judge Advertisement Article continues below this ad “The Flock cameras are an incredible force multiplier,” Montgomery County Sheriff’s Office Chief Deputy Jonathan Zitzmann said during the township Dec. 4 meeting. “It provides law enforcement with incredible investigative leads to solve crime.” Zitzmann said the cameras also deter criminal activity. Want more Houston Chronicle? Make us a Preferred Source on Google to see more of us when you search. Add Preferred Source The sheriff’s office is working to install the cameras before summer, when “quality of life crimes,” such as vandalism and panhandling, increase. Flock Safety is a public safety operating system that uses license plate reading cameras to provide 24/7 monitoring for police departments, homes, businesses and neighborhoods. Advertisement Article continues below this ad While Township Chairman Brad Bailey said the board hasn’t had any negative feedback about the cameras, the system does have some opposition. LOOKING AHEAD: Mardi Gras Galveston reveals 2026 dates, headliners. When to go and who's coming next February. The American Civil Liberties Union of Texas has raised privacy concerns related to the cameras. The organization believes the extensive network of surveillance cameras enables it to determine where people are in the city, where they are going, and who they are seeing, according to a previous Chronicle article . However, Flock Safety officials said that customers, such as the Montgomery County Sheriff’s Office, own the data collected and have exclusive access to it. According to the company, every evidence search in the system is logged and requires a search reason. After 30 days, if that data is not used, it is permanently deleted. Dec 9, 2025 Catherine Dominguez Reporter Catherine Dominguez is a Houston Chronicle reporter who covers Montgomery County, including the city of Conroe and Conroe ISD. Most Popular 1 . Exclusive: Texas oil CEO arrested, accused of organized crime 2 . Free World Cup tickets offered to veterans, military and first responders 3 . Meet Texas' wealthiest self-made women of 2026, according to Forbes 4 . Rice Village restaurant to close after 27 years 5 . Did the White House inadvertently help James Talarico's chances in November? Latest Local News Conroe ISD aims to tighten policies to curb misconduct against students In addition, the district is considering a new platform to communicate with parents. Viral video shows coyotes playing in Gulf waters at Galveston Island Park A Galveston Island video of coyotes playing in the Gulf topped 200,000 views. Blue Bell hasn't sold this flavor since 2017. Now it's back for America's 250th. Blue Bell has brought back Red, White & Blue Bell ice cream for a limited time as America’s 250th anniversary approaches. Near Northside losing Hispanic residents to gentrification Near Northside, a historic Mexican American neighborhood in Houston, has lost more than 20% of its Latino population since 2019. National Donut Day: Here are some deals from Dunkin' to Shipley Do-Nuts From Dunkin' Donuts to Shipley Do-Nuts to Voodoo Doughnut, here are the Houston-area shops taking part in the day. Around the Web Editor's Picks Business Prepare for your property tax hearing with TX Tax Endorsements In Paxton-Talarico race, the choice is clear | Endorsement Lisa Falkenberg Falkenberg: Mike Miles’ HISD reforms are hurting good schools Trending Texas food recalls in May 2026: Salmonella and allergy risks Energy Data centers need water. Could Texas oil companies help? Restaurants & Bars Best ice cream shops in Houston for summer heat Trending Videos Return To Top About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Standards and Practices Sitemap Contact Customer Service Frequently Asked Questions Newsroom Contacts Copyright and Reprints Services Archives Newspaper Archive Advertising Account Subscribe e-Edition Newsletters About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Standards and Practices Sitemap Contact Customer Service Frequently Asked Questions Newsroom Contacts Copyright and Reprints Services Archives Newspaper Archive Advertising Account Subscribe e-Edition Newsletters © 2026 Hearst Newspapers, LLC Terms of Use Privacy Notice DAA Industry Opt Out Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)