Chandler delays vote on Flock Safety contract until July | FOX 10 Phoenix News Weather Live Seen on TV FOX LOCAL Contests Poll More Watch Live Expand / Collapse search ☰ Search site News Arizona Headlines America 250 AZAM Crime & Public Safety Health Immigration Iran War Latest Videos Poll of the Day Seen on TV Links Sports Traffic - Safe Driving Tips Weather Forecast Weather Headlines Weather Planners Weather Alerts Weather App Weather Photos Weather Wisdom FOX Weather Money Business Economy Jobs & Unemployment Personal Finance Politics Arizona Politics - Newsmaker National Politics - Donald Trump Only on FOX Care Force Channel 10 Rewind Video Vault Cool House Drone Zone Investigations Made in Arizona Missing in Arizona - Nancy Guthrie search Special Reports Spotlight - Financial Tips FOX 10 Originals AZ Eats The Balancing Act The Curious B FOX 10 Talks The Front 9 Great American Story I Could Do That On the Record The Time Machine UNKNOWN Weather and Whatever What's in a name, Arizona? Regional News Los Angeles News - FOX 11 Los Angeles San Francisco News - KTVU FOX 2 Seattle News - FOX 13 Seattle About Us Advertise Closed Captioning Contact Us Copies of Newscasts FCC Applications FCC Public File News Team TV Listings - Rescan your TV Work for Us Live Video & Apps Live Newscasts Live Weather Webcams Livestreaming Schedule FOX Local App FOX 10 Weather App Watch FIFA World Cup 2026 USA vs Paraguay Live USA vs Australia Live USA vs Turkiye Live Watch New Zealand vs Egypt Stay Connected FOX 10 Contests FOX 10 Events Sign up for newsletters FOX 10 Salutes military photos Breaking News photos Photo of the Day Weather photos Social Media YouTube TikTok Instagram Facebook Twitter/X Threads BlueSky Nextdoor More News Morning Brief FOX 10 Explains Nightly Roundup Red Flag Warning from SAT 10:00 AM MST until SAT 8:00 PM MST, Coconino Plateau, Grand Canyon Country, Kaibab Plateau 5 Fire Weather Watch from SUN 10:00 AM MST until SUN 8:00 PM MST, Little Colorado River Valley in Navajo County, Yavapai County Mountains, Eastern Mogollon Rim, Grand Canyon Country, Western Mogollon Rim, Coconino Plateau, Little Colorado River Valley in Coconino County, Kaibab Plateau, Little Colorado River Valley in Apache County Fire Weather Watch from SUN 11:00 AM MDT until SUN 9:00 PM MDT, Chuska Mountains and Defiance Plateau, Black Mesa Area, Northeast Plateaus and Mesas South of Hwy 264 Fire Weather Watch from SAT 9:00 AM MST until SAT 11:00 PM MST, Lake Mead NRA/Colorado River-AZ side, Northwest Deserts/Northwest Plateau, Central Deserts, Yuma/Martinez Lake and Vicinity/Lower Colorado River Valley AZ Fire Weather Watch from SUN 9:00 AM MST until SUN 11:00 PM MST, Lake Mead NRA/Colorado River-AZ side, Northwest Deserts/Northwest Plateau Chandler delays vote on Flock Safety contract until July By Jacob Luthi and Annalisa Pardo FOX 10 Phoenix Chandler Updated May 22, 2026 6:33 AM MST Published May 21, 2026 8:24 PM MST Share Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit Updated May 22, 2026 6:33 AM MST ▾ Flock Safety camera contract: Chandler delays vote After hours of debate and tense exchanges among council members during a Thursday night meeting, the Chandler City Council delayed a decision on whether to renew its contract with Flock Safety for automated license plate reader cameras until July. FOX 10's Annalisa Pardo has more. The Brief The Chandler City Council is delaying a decision on whether to renew a contract worth more than $153,000 with Flock Safety for automated license plate reader cameras. After hours of debate during a May 21 meeting, the city council decided to delay its vote until July. Supporters argue the 40-camera network provides critical, objective investigative leads, while opponents contend the system creates a massive database used for unwarranted surveillance and profiling. CHANDLER, Ariz. - After hours of debate and tense exchanges among council members, the Chandler City Council has delayed a decision on whether to renew its contract with Flock Safety for automated license plate reader cameras until July. What we know: Dozens of concerned citizens packed the council chambers, as members were expected to vote on whether to renew the over $153,000 contract with Flock Safety for their technology. The cameras send real-time alerts to police when they detect vehicles linked to stolen cars, missing persons, or active warrants. Chandler police launched the program in March 2024 with 14 Automated License Plate Recognition (ALPR) cameras — and a year later, the city expanded the network to 40. In the last fiscal year, Chandler police says 7,600 alerts came through the system. Between July 2025 and April 2026, 16 stolen vehicles were recovered, nine missing persons were located and there were a total of 39 arrests. What they're saying: Opponents argue the 24–7 cameras create a massive vehicle database that could be misused for surveillance, profiling, and tracking people without their knowledge. "I can’t go over there and look at it because I can’t go over there and look at it," Chandler Council member OD Harris said. "I have major problems with that because that’s oversight. That is our job to look to make sure—I’m not trying to make a spectacle of anything. I’m just simply trying to protect our privacy." Chandler Flock Safety camera contract protested The Chandler City Council is deciding whether to renew a contract worth more than $153,000 with Flock Safety for automated license plate reader cameras. FOX 10's Jacob Luthi reports. Supporters say the cameras give investigators more detailed, objective vehicle information to help track leads and reduce misidentifications. "For the last three years, we have had this in the city of Chandler with the data and seen how many times we have helped people with it," Council member Christine Ellis said. "And I'm sitting there saying that I am taking accountability, but if anything happened that is not supposed to happen with this money, we would be the first one to stop it. We would be the first one." Dig deeper: A representative from Flock was not available for an interview but did say the city of Chandler owns 100% of its data under the terms of the contract and controls whether to share that data. The system meets CJIS data security standards, does not use facial recognition, and says Flock does not sell its data. The Source FOX 10's Jacob Luthi reported on this story by attending a Chandler City Council meeting on May 21. Chandler Technology News Breaking News Breaking news delivered fast By clicking Sign Up, I confirm that I have read and agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service . Just In... View More Developing Anthony Head, ‘Buffy’ and ‘Ted Lasso’ actor, dies at 72 Celebrity deaths of 2026: The entertainers and artists we lost this year 172,000 jobs added in May as US job market remains resilient despite Iran war Astronauts sheltering on International Space Station after new leak found Scientists reveal why you're probably throwing away meat too soon Trending Bones found not connected to Nancy Guthrie case Arizona Humane takes in more than 20 dogs from condemned Glendale house Desert Sky Mall shooting bystander describes moments after gunfire One Camelback in Phoenix now accepting leases AZ fake electors case: Supreme court denies appeal Latest Videos View More video Mesa store named top 100 donut shops in the U.S. video Arrests made in Arizona train heist video Mother addresses her son's alleged killer video Arizona could get water relief thanks to deal video Hundreds of delays at Sky Harbor on Thursday WATCH LIVE FOX 10 AZAM The latest Arizona headlines, national news events of the day + sports, weather, and traffic updates. News Arizona Headlines America 250 AZAM Crime & Public Safety Health Immigration Iran War Latest Videos Poll of the Day Seen on TV Links Sports Traffic - Safe Driving Tips Weather Forecast Weather Headlines Weather Planners Weather Alerts Weather App Weather Photos Weather Wisdom FOX Weather Money Business Economy Jobs & Unemployment Personal Finance Politics Arizona Politics - Newsmaker National Politics - Donald Trump Only on FOX Care Force Channel 10 Rewind Video Vault Cool House Drone Zone Investigations Made in Arizona Missing in Arizona - Nancy Guthrie search Special Reports Spotlight - Financial Tips FOX 10 Originals AZ Eats The Balancing Act The Curious B FOX 10 Talks The Front 9 Great American Story I Could Do That On the Record The Time Machine UNKNOWN Weather and Whatever What's in a name, Arizona? Regional News Los Angeles News - FOX 11 Los Angeles San Francisco News - KTVU FOX 2 Seattle News - FOX 13 Seattle About Us Advertise Closed Captioning Contact Us Copies of Newscasts FCC Applications FCC Public File News Team TV Listings - Rescan your TV Work for Us Live Video & Apps Live Newscasts Live Weather Webcams Livestreaming Schedule FOX Local App FOX 10 Weather App Watch FIFA World Cup 2026 USA vs Paraguay Live USA vs Australia Live USA vs Turkiye Live Watch New Zealand vs Egypt Stay Connected FOX 10 Contests FOX 10 Events Sign up for newsletters FOX 10 Salutes military photos Breaking News photos Photo of the Day Weather photos Social Media YouTube TikTok Instagram Facebook Twitter/X Threads BlueSky Nextdoor More News Morning Brief FOX 10 Explains Nightly Roundup facebook twitter instagram youtube tk bluesky email newsletters Privacy Policy Terms of Use Your Privacy Choices FCC Public File FCC Applications EEO Public File Closed Captioning Contact Us This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2026 FOX Television Stations