--- page 1 ---
Chandler delays vote on Flock Safety contract un
July
The Brief
The Chandler City Council is delaying a decision on whether to renew a contract wor
more than $153,000 with Flock Safety for automated license plate reader cameras.
By Jacob Luthi and Annalisa Pardo
FOX 10 Phoenix
Chandler
Updated May 22, 2026 6:33 AM MST
▾
Flock Safety camera contract: Chandler delays vote
After hours of debate and tense exchanges among council members during 
Thursday night meeting, the Chandler City Council delayed a decision on whe
to renew its contract with Flock Safety for automated license plate reader
cameras until July. FOX 10's Annalisa Pardo has more.
Watch Live

--- page 2 ---
What we know:
What they're saying:
After hours of debate during a May 21 meeting, the city council decided to delay its v
until July.
Supporters argue the 40-camera network provides critical, objective investigative lea
while opponents contend the system creates a massive database used for unwarran
surveillance and profiling.
CHANDLER, Ariz. - After hours of debate and tense exchanges among coun
members, the Chandler City Council has delayed a decision on whether to re
its contract with Flock Safety for automated license plate reader cameras unt
July.
Dozens of concerned citizens packed the council chambers, a
members were expected to vote on whether to renew the ov
$153,000 contract with Flock Safety for their technology.
The cameras send real-time alerts to police when they detect vehicles linked 
stolen cars, missing persons, or active warrants.
Chandler police launched the program in March 2024 with 14 Automated
License Plate Recognition (ALPR) cameras — and a year later, the city expand
the network to 40.
In the last fiscal year, Chandler police says 7,600 alerts came through the sys
Between July 2025 and April 2026, 16 stolen vehicles were recovered, nine
missing persons were located and there were a total of 39 arrests.
Opponents argue the 24–7 cameras create a massive ve
database that could be misused for surveillance, profilin
and tracking people without their knowledge.
WATCH LIVE
FOX 10 AZAM
The latest Arizona headlines, national news events of the day + sports, weather, and traffic
updates.
×

--- page 3 ---
"I can’t go over there and look at it because I can’t go over there and look at i
Chandler Council member OD Harris said. "I have major problems with that
because that’s oversight. That is our job to look to make sure—I’m not trying 
make a spectacle of anything. I’m just simply trying to protect our privacy."
Supporters say the cameras give investigators more detailed, objective vehic
information to help track leads and reduce misidentifications.
"For the last three years, we have had this in the city of Chandler with the dat
and seen how many times we have helped people with it," Council member
Christine Ellis said. "And I'm sitting there saying that I am taking accountability
Chandler Flock Safety camera contract protested
The Chandler City Council is deciding whether to renew a contract worth mo
than $153,000 with Flock Safety for automated license plate reader cameras
10's Jacob Luthi reports.
WATCH LIVE
FOX 10 AZAM
The latest Arizona headlines, national news events of the day + sports, weather, and traffic
updates.
×

--- page 4 ---
Dig deeper:
if anything happened that is not supposed to happen with this money, we wo
be the first one to stop it. We would be the first one."
A representative from Flock was not available for an interview bu
say the city of Chandler owns 100% of its data under the terms o
contract and controls whether to share that data. The system me
CJIS data security standards, does not use facial recognition, and says Flock d
not sell its data.
The Source
FOX 10's Jacob Luthi reported on this story by attending a Chandler City
Council meeting on May 21.
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2026 FOX Television Stations
Chandler
Technology
News
WATCH LIVE
FOX 10 AZAM
The latest Arizona headlines, national news events of the day + sports, weather, and traffic
updates.
×