Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock.com
Durango CO PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Mon Jul 27 2026

Overview

Durango Police uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Durango Police utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, the Durango Police Department utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention (in days)

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Vehicles Detected in the Last 30 Days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

204,580

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

403

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCIC, NCMEC Amber Alert, Colorado Crime Information Center (CCIC)

Hotlist Hits in the Last 30 Days

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

1,732
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Durango CO PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits (i.e., stolen vehicles, missing persons, etc.) are required to be human verified prior to action.
More Info

Glossary


Amber Alert: Missing/Endangered child associated with a known vehicle

CCIC: Colorado Crime Information Center

Hotlist: A list comprised of vehicles added to the system for the purposes of recovering a missing person or intercepting a vehicle associated with a person of interest for reasons including warrants, stolen vehicles, stolen plates, violent offenses.

NCMEC: National Center for Missing and Exploited Children

NCIC: National Crime Information Center

Provided by Flock Safety