source: packet.pdf
sha256: c92d7859d7d7f6e6866c5e41bf6a9251332636e8d1d141e1f2ba2cf1c58c2dfc
pages: 49
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
January 2, 2024
5:30 PM
City Hall Council Chamber 330 W.
20th Avenue San Mateo CA 94403
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Lisa Diaz Nash, Mayor
Rob Newsom Jr., Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Amourence Lee
Adam Loraine
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: January 2, 2024
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 898 5947 8765      Passcode: 879936
Council Member Amourence Lee will be participating remotely from the following location:
Fracc. 1 Lt 1, 40880 Barra de Potosi, Gro. Mexico
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the consideration of these items. Following the meeting a report of action
from Closed Session will be provided if required.
1.
Conference with Labor Negotiators (Government Code Section 54957.6)
City designated representatives: Shawnna Maltbie, Karen Huang, Stacey Cue and Yumi Maeda.
Employee Organization: Police Officers’ Association
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
2.
Charter Amendments and Council Compensation - Study Session
Provide feedback and direction on proposed City Charter amendments addressing how the Mayor is chosen,
Board and Commission member selection and compensation, and other revisions, as well as Council member
compensation.
CEQA: This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1 of 49

--- page 2 ---
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 49

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-1711
File ID: 23-8305
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Prasanna W. Rasiah, City Attorney
PREPARED BY:
City Attorney's Office
MEETING DATE:
January 2, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Charter Amendments and Council Compensation - Study Session
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide feedback and direction on proposed City Charter amendments addressing how the Mayor is chosen, Board and 
Commission member selection and compensation, and other revisions, as well as Council member compensation.
BACKGROUND:
The City Council directed staff at its Fiscal Year 2022-23 Goal Setting to review and update the City Charter related to 
district elections, mayoral rotation, and filling Council vacancies. During an October 16, 2023 Study Session, these and 
other staff-proposed changes were presented to the City Council.  The staff changes related to removing language that 
was not necessary (regarding Council members elected in 2017 and verified statements by candidates), publication and 
expiration of emergency ordinances, and miscellaneous edits. 
The Council largely agreed with the proposed changes but requested revisions to the draft Charter language addressing 
mayoral rotation.  The Council also agreed with splitting the amendments into two measures, with the shift to district 
elections and other non- controversial changes grouped into one measure, and further agreed with the proposed plan for 
future Council meetings, community outreach, consultant assistance, and polling.  Details on the Charter amendment 
process may also be found in that report.  
Staff also indicated during the October 16, 2023 study session that further information would be presented on the subject 
of Board and Commission compensation and qualifications at this meeting, in addition to Council compensation (which 
does not require a Charter amendment).  Note that an adjustment to Council compensation would not take effect until 
after the next municipal election for Council members.  
Staff is seeking Council feedback this evening on the following questions:
1.
Does the Council agree with:
i.
Proposed language addressing Mayoral rotation?
ii.
Recommendations for board and commission compensation and qualifications?
iii.
Other proposed changes?
2.
 Does the Council wish to adjust Council compensation?
i.
If so, in what amount (from the current $600 to a maximum of $1,900 per month)
3 of 49

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DISCUSSION:
A.  Mayoral Rotation / Start Time for Council Meetings
 
Existing Charter Language 
Proposed Charter Language
 
The council shall meet at the first regular council meeting 
in December following a general municipal election and 
canvass the returns thereof. The new members shall then 
be inducted into office, whereupon the council shall elect 
the mayor and deputy mayor. The regular meetings of the 
council shall be held on the first and third Monday of each 
month not earlier than 6:30 p.m., but any regular meeting 
may be adjourned to a date and time certain, which 
adjourned meeting shall be a regular meeting for all 
purposes. The council may, in its discretion, change the 
date of any regularly scheduled Monday council meeting 
which would fall on a holiday or other inconvenient day to 
the nearest convenient day subsequent to the regularly 
scheduled Monday council meeting.  (Sec. 2.09.)
 
 
(a)  The council shall meet at the first regular council 
meeting in December following a general municipal 
election and canvass the returns thereof. The new 
members shall then be inducted into office, whereupon 
the council shall elect the mayor and deputy mayor 
without continuing such action to a future date and time 
absent a unanimous vote of the Council, or a fire, flood, 
or other disaster. 
(b)  The selection of the mayor and deputy mayor shall 
follow a rotational sequence.  The first person in the 
sequence shall be selected as mayor and the second 
person in the sequence shall be selected as deputy 
mayor.  Except however, a council member may decline 
to serve as mayor or deputy mayor, in which case the 
office would pass to the next council member in the 
rotation, and the council member who declined would 
drop back one position.  The rotational sequence shall be 
further specified by ordinance, and the rotational list 
shall be kept by the city clerk.  
(c)  The regular meetings of the council shall be held on 
the first and third Monday of each month at a time 
specified by ordinance not earlier than 6:30 p.m., but any 
regular meeting may be adjourned to a date and time 
certain, which adjourned meeting shall be a regular 
meeting for all purposes. The council may, in its discretion, 
change the date of any regularly scheduled Monday 
council meeting which would fall on a holiday or other 
inconvenient day to the nearest convenient day 
subsequent to the regularly scheduled Monday council 
meeting.  (Sec. 2.09.)
The proposed language would remove 6:30 p.m. as the start time for Council meetings and simply allow the time to be 
determined by ordinance.  
Regarding the mayoral rotation, the proposed language would address both the procedure and substance of selecting a 
mayor and deputy mayor.  First, as previously proposed, it would require the Council to select a Mayor at the first regular 
meeting in December and would prohibit continuing the action to a future date, as specified.  But additional changes are 
proposed to codify the key aspects of the Council Guidelines, namely to frame the process of selecting a Mayor and 
Deputy Mayor as a ministerial act by strictly following a rotational sequence.  In order to avoid a lengthy Charter section, 
the proposed language states that the details are to be specified in an ordinance.  The ordinance would generally include 
the following provisions from the Council Guidelines:
1.
After serving as mayor, that council member moves to the end of the rotation sequence, and the other four 
4 of 49

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
council members move forward.  
2.
When a council member is newly elected or appointed (as the result of a cancelled election), that new council 
member goes into the fourth position in the rotation, after all incumbents, but before the current outgoing Mayor.  
3.
If two or more council members are newly elected or appointed at the same time, the newly elected or appointed 
council members shall draw lots to determine their position relative to one another in the rotational sequence. 
4.
If a council member is appointed to fill a mid-term vacancy, that council member will go to the bottom of the 
rotational list.  
5.
Incumbent council members, when re-elected, do not begin anew at the bottom of the list, but rather retain their 
placement in the rotation.  
6.
If for any reason, such as death, resignation, recall, or not seeking re-election, a council member is removed from 
the rotation, the remaining council members move forward in the sequence.  
Chapter 5 of the Council Guidelines contains the current policy and can be found here.
Filling Council Vacancies  
During the prior study session, a majority of the Council agreed with the proposed language below, particularly the 
extension of the time to fill a vacancy from 30 days to 60 days.  There was some discussion regarding whether to remove 
the power of the mayor to fill a vacancy and replace it with a special election, in the event that that Council could not 
make a decision even within the extended 60-day period (although it could also choose to call a special election earlier, as 
permitted by state law).  In light of the draft revised language for mayoral rotation, this portion of a potential Charter 
amendment is repeated in the event the Council wishes to revisit this language.
  
Existing Charter Language 
Proposed Charter Language
 
A vacancy on the city council from whatever cause arising 
shall be filled by appointment by the council provided, 
that if the council fails to agree or for any other reason 
does not fill such vacancy within 30 days after the same 
occurs, then such vacancy shall be filled by the mayor. The 
appointee shall hold office until the next general election, 
when a successor shall be chosen by the electors for the 
unexpired term. If for any reason the seats of a majority of 
the council become vacant, then the city clerk shall call a 
special election at once to fill the vacancies for the 
unexpired terms, and the same shall be conducted 
substantially in the manner provided for general municipal 
elections. The candidates receiving the most votes shall 
serve the longer, if any, of the unexpired terms, and in 
case of ties the terms shall be fixed by lot.  (Sec. 2.08.)
 
 
A vacancy on the city council from whatever cause arising 
shall be filled by appointment by the council provided, 
that if the council fails to agree or for any other reason 
does not fill such vacancy within 30 60 days after the same 
occurs, then the city clerk shall call a special election at 
once to fill such vacancy such vacancy shall be filled by 
the mayor. The An appointee shall hold office until the 
next general election, when a successor shall be chosen by 
the electors for the unexpired term. If for any reason the 
seats of a majority of the council become vacant, then the 
city clerk shall call a special election at once to fill the 
vacancies for the unexpired terms, and the same shall be 
conducted substantially in the manner provided for 
general municipal elections. The candidates receiving the 
most votes shall serve the longer, if any, of the unexpired 
terms, and in case of ties the terms shall be fixed by lot.
As mentioned in the prior study session staff report, the proposed language would address several issues. First, by 
replacing the phrase, “the mayor” with text calling for a special election, the draft wording would remove the authority of 
the Mayor to fill vacancies and instead send the decision to the voters, if the Council is unable to make a decision within 
the allotted time. Notably, in 1983 Measure C was submitted to the voters that would have accomplished the same 
purpose with somewhat different wording, but that measure failed by a 46.4% to 53.6% vote.  
 
The time for the Council to make a decision on filling a vacancy would also be increased from 30 to 60 days. This is 
important because if a vacancy occurs due to a Councilmember being elected to another office, that would occur in 
November. The existing 30-day period would then expire in December during the holiday season. Extending the period to 
5 of 49

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
60 days would allow for increased outreach to the community and a more deliberate application, interview, and selection 
process. The Council would also have more time to weigh the benefits and drawbacks (such as expense) of a special 
election, versus making a decision to fill the vacancy after extensive community input. 
 
Finally, the draft language eliminates text allowing candidates receiving the most votes to serve the longer of unexpired 
terms (and addressing tie votes) where a majority of the Council seats become vacant.  But following the shift to district 
elections, candidates would no longer run for one of several at-large seats and would instead run for a single seat in their 
district.  Thus, the current language is no longer necessary.  
C.  Board and Commission Compensation and Qualifications
 
On July 17, 2023, the City Council considered whether to compensate those who serve on the City’s boards and 
commissions, and whether to amend their qualifications for service, in order to provide more opportunities and incentives 
to participate on boards and commissions.  The Charter requires Board and Commission members to possess the same 
qualifications as Councilmembers, who must be qualified electors and residents of the City.  Chart. §§2.01, 6.05.  Board 
and commission members are also barred from receiving compensation under the Charter but may receive reimbursement 
for expenses.  Chart. §6.06.  A change to either set of rules would require an amendment to the Charter.  
Below is a chart identifying compensation along with elector (citizenship) and residency requirements for board and 
commission members in San Mateo County.  This chart is intended to be illustrative rather than comprehensive in nature.
City
Board/Commission
Monthly Compensation
Residency/Elector 
Requirement
Atherton
Planning Commission
None
Town residence required
Brisbane
All
None
City residence required
Burlingame
Planning Commission and 
Park and Recreation 
Commission
None 
Registered, qualified electors of the city
Colma
None
None
None
Daly City
Planning Commission
Recreation Commission
Arts and Culture Commission
None
None 
None 
Residency required
Both required 
Foster City
Planning Commission
$269 per month
City residence required
Half Moon Bay
Planning Commission
None
City residence required
Hillsborough
Architecture and Design 
Review Board (ADRB)
None
Qualified elector of the Town for ADRB
City residence required for all others
Menlo Park
All
None
Resident of the City and at least 18 years 
of age
Millbrae
Planning Commission and 
Parks and Recreation 
Commission
None 
Qualified elector of the city for Planning 
Commission only
Pacifica
All
None
Registered, qualified electors of the city, 
except for youth commissioners
Redwood City
Planning Commission
Library Board
Other boards/commissions
None
Resident/elector of the city 
Resident/elector of the city 
 Resident/elector of the city unless 
otherwise specified by Council
San Carlos
All
None
Resident of the City
South SF
Planning Commission
Parks/ Recreation Commn
Personnel Board
Compensation for all ($100) 
set by Council resolution 
Residency required for all
Woodside
Planning Commission
None
One resident/district, except as specified
6 of 49

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The Charter currently requires board and commission members to be San Mateo residents at least 18 years old, and a U.S. 
citizen.  As indicated from the chart above, some cities require board and commission members to be electors similar to 
San Mateo, while others simply impose a residency requirement.  If San Mateo were to change its current elector 
requirement to residency, then non-citizens would be eligible to serve on these advisory bodies.  The Council could 
consider whether to broaden eligibility for all boards and commissions or only a select few, and whether to impose a 
minimum age requirement (such as 16) if youth commissioners are desired for certain bodies (possibly excluding the 
Personnel Board given the nature of sensitive employment issues).  Additionally, if the elector requirement is removed, the 
Council could examine whether residency in adjacent unincorporated areas rather than strictly within the City should be a 
sufficient basis for eligibility for at least some boards and commissions.  
Removing the elector requirement could be as simple as stating, “The members of all boards and commissions created by 
ordinance or by this Charter shall be appointed by the council, and shall at the time of appointment and while serving 
possess the same qualifications as required by this Charter for election or appointment to the council, unless otherwise 
provided by the Council.”  (Chart. §6.05, with proposed revision underlined.)  
With regard to compensation, allowing board and commission members to be paid would differ from almost all other 
cities in San Mateo County and could lead to complicating factors.  For instance, compensating these members could 
implicate other requirements related to minimum wages, taxation, and workers compensation, which may not be in the 
City’s best interest.  Furthermore, removing the elector requirement in conjunction with allowing compensation would 
create the opportunity for community members who are not eligible to work in the United States to serve on boards and 
commissions.  On the one hand, this does increase the opportunity for participation in City affairs.  However, the City 
cannot compensate such individuals who are not eligible to work.  If the Council were to decide to choose between these 
two options, removing the elector requirement while keeping the restriction on compensation would have the benefit of 
avoiding potential legal concerns while still opening up participation on City boards and commissions to a greater segment 
of the community.  
D.  Council Member Compensation
On October 16, 2023, the Council requested a discussion of Council compensation at a future study session.  While a 
Charter amendment is not required, for convenience this topic is included as part of tonight’s study session.
As a reminder, the City Charter states that, “The mayor and other members of the city council shall each receive $600.00 
per month compensation for their services as council. Compensation may be adjusted in the manner authorized by the 
general laws of the State for general law cities of the same population as San Mateo.”  Chart. §2.03.  Thus, the Charter 
builds in flexibility to adjust Council compensation consistent with general law cities without a Charter amendment.  
Also consistent with state law as required by the Charter, a salary increase for the Council may only take effect once a 
Council member commences a new term.  Specifically, “a change in compensation does not apply to a council member 
during the council member's term of office. This prohibition shall not prevent the adjustment of the compensation of all 
members of a council serving staggered terms whenever one or more members of the city council becomes eligible for a 
salary increase by virtue of the council member beginning a new term of office.”  Govt. §36516.5.  What this means is that 
if the Council chooses to approve a salary increase, it would not apply until after the next municipal election.  
Under state law SB 329 (2023) effective on January 1, 2024, compensation for council members in general law cities may 
be increased, and for cities between 75,000 and 150,000, the maximum compensation will be $1,900 per month as of 
January 1, 2024, although inflationary or other limited increases are permitted as specified.  Any adjustment to Council 
compensation must be accomplished by ordinance.  
Below is a chart identifying compensation levels for Council members in San Mateo County.  Some cities also provide other 
benefits including health, dental, vision, retirement (CalPERS), and/or an auto allowance.
7 of 49

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
  
City
Compensation/ Month
Atherton
None
Brisbane
$400
Burlingame
$590
Colma
$961
Daly City
$1102.92 bi-weekly
Foster City
$496 
Half Moon Bay
$1,056
Hillsborough
None
Menlo Park
$650
Millbrae
$345
Pacifica
$700
Redwood City
$750
San Carlos
$560
San Mateo
$600
South SF
$1000
Woodside
None
  
 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this study session. Should the Council direct staff to pursue further action on 
charter amendments, further analysis and scoping will be required.  Hiring a ballot measure consultant and polling 
consultant will likely cost approximately $190,000.  Placing each measure on the ballot at the consolidated November 5, 
2024 election will also cost approximately $100,000, for a total of $390,000. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met. Additionally, a public hearing notice was published for this study session.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Charter Amendments – Tracked Changes
LINKS
City Charter
City Council Guidelines
October 16, 2023 Study Session (Item 2)
STAFF CONTACT
Prasanna W. Rasiah, City Attorney
prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7020
8 of 49

--- page 9 ---
San Mateo City Charter
ARTICLE I NAME, BOUNDARIES, AND POWERS OF THE CITY
1.01
Name of The City.
The municipal corporation now existing and known as the City of San Mateo shall remain and continue 
to be a body politic and corporate as at present, in name, in fact and in law.
1.02
Boundaries.
The boundaries of said city shall be the same as now established, with power and authority to change 
the same as provided by law.
1.03
Powers.
Said city, by and through its council and other officials, shall have, and may exercise, all powers 
necessary or appropriate to a municipal corporation and the general welfare of its inhabitants which are 
not prohibited by the constitution and which it would be competent for this Charter to set forth 
particularly or specifically, including all powers now or hereafter granted, and the specification herein of 
any particular powers shall not be held to be exclusive or any limitation of this general grant of powers.
ARTICLE II LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT
2.01
Composition, Eligibility, Election and Terms.
(a) There shall be a city council of five members elected by the voters of the city at largeby 
districts.  Any recall election or special election or appointment to fill a vacancy shall also be by 
district.  Following each decennial federal census, and at other such times as provided by law, 
the city council shall, by ordinance, adopt boundaries for all council districts so that all of the 
districts shall comply with state and federal law.    
(b) No person shall be eligible to hold office as a member of the city council or for election 
thereto unless he or she isthey are, and shall have been continuously for at least 30 days 
immediately preceding the appointment or final filing date for nomination papers for such 
office, a qualified elector and resident of the city, or of territory annexed to or consolidated with 
the city.
(c) The members of the city council shall be elected by the voters of the city at a general 
municipal election to be held in the year 2020 and every even-numbered year as follows:
(1) Two councilmembers shall be elected at the general municipal election held in the 
year 2020. They shall hold office for a term of four years, commencing on the first 
regular council meeting in the December immediately following the general municipal 
election until the general municipal election the fourth year thereafter.
(2) Three councilmembers shall be elected at the general municipal election held in the 
year 2022. They shall hold office for a term of four years, commencing on the first 
regular council meeting in the December immediately following the general municipal 
election until the general municipal election the fourth year thereafter.
9 of 49

--- page 10 ---
(3) In the event two or more candidates receive the same number of votes and it is 
necessary for any reason to break the tie, the tie shall be broken by drawing lots under 
the supervision of the city attorney at the earliest meeting of the council after such a tie 
has been determined.
(d) Provisions applicable to the councilmembers elected at the general municipal election held 
in 2015 and the councilmembers elected at the general municipal election held in 2017.
(1) The incumbent councilmembers elected at the general municipal election held in 
2015 shall have their term extended by one year, until the general municipal election 
held in 2020.
(2) The three councilmembers elected at the general municipal election held in 2017 
shall hold office for a term of five years, commencing on the first regular council 
meeting in December 2017 until the general municipal election held in 2022.
(3) These provisions are necessary to effectuate the change in timing of general 
municipal elections from odd-numbered years to even-numbered years, as approved by 
the voters of city in the general municipal election held in 2017.
(de) Councilmembers shall not be eligible for election to nor serve more than three consecutive 
terms in office provided that no partial term of office shall be counted as any portion of the 
consecutive terms. (Res. No. 65 § 2, eff. 11-7-17)
2.02
Mayor.
The Council shall elect from among its members officers of the city who shall have the titles of mayor 
and deputy mayor, each of whom shall serve at the pleasure of the council. The mayor shall preside at 
meetings of the council, shall be recognized as head of the city government for all ceremonial purposes 
and by the governor for purposes of military law, but shall have no administrative duties. The deputy 
mayor shall act as mayor during the absence or disability of the mayor.
2.03
Compensation.
The mayor and other members of the city council shall each receive $600.00 per month compensation 
for their services as council. Compensation may be adjusted in the manner authorized by the general 
laws of the State for general law cities of the same population as San Mateo.
2.04
Beneﬁts and Expenses.
Retirement, health and welfare, and social security benefits shall be in addition to, and not be included 
in, the amount of compensation authorized by this Charter. The mayor and other members of the city 
council shall receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of 
office upon presentation of verified claims therefor on uniform forms to be prescribed by resolution of 
the city council.
2.05
General Powers and Duties.
10 of 49

--- page 11 ---
All powers of the city shall be vested in the council, except as otherwise provided by law or this Charter, 
and the council shall provide for the exercise thereof and for the performance of all duties and 
obligations imposed on the city by law.
2.06
Prohibitions.
(a) Holding Other Office: Except where authorized by law, no councilmember shall hold any 
other city office or city employment during the term for which they were he/she was elected or 
appointed by the council, and no former councilmember shall hold any compensated appointed 
city office or employment until one year after the expiration of the term for which they were 
he/she was elected or appointed to the council.
(b) Appointments and Removals: Neither the council nor any of its members shall in any manner 
dictate the appointment or removal of any city administrative or legal officers or employees 
whom the city manager, city attorney, or any of the city manager's subordinates are 
empowered to appoint, but the council may express its views and fully and freely discuss with 
the city manager or city attorney anything pertaining to appointment and removal of such 
officers and employees. Where council approval of a proposed appointment is required a refusal 
to approve shall not be construed as a violation of this provision.
(c) Interference with Administration: Except for the purpose of inquiries and investigations 
specifically authorized by this Charter or by law, the council or its members shall deal with city 
officers and employees who are subject to the direction and supervision of the manager or city 
attorney solely through the city manager or city attorney, respectively, and neither the council 
nor its members shall give orders to any such officer or employee, either publicly or privately.
2.07
Forfeiture of Office.
Any councilmember shall forfeit theirhis/her office who (1) fails to qualify within 10 days after 
appointment or certification of election, or (2) is absent from the city continuously for more than 30 
days without permission of a majority of the remaining councilmembers, or (3) fails to attend three 
consecutive regular meetings of the council without being excused by a majority of the remaining 
councilmembers, and the excuse entered in the minutes, or (4) fails to attend at least two-thirds of all 
regular meetings of the council during any 12-month period, or (5) is convicted of a violation of any 
express provision of this Charter or of a crime involving moral turpitude, or (6) attempts to influence the 
city manager or city attorney in the making of any appointment or in the purchase of supplies, or (7) 
lacks at any time during theirhis/her term of office any qualification for the office prescribed by this 
Charter or by law.
2.08
Vacancies in Ofﬁce.
A vacancy on the city council from whatever cause arising shall be filled by appointment by the council 
provided, that if the council fails to agree or for any other reason does not fill such vacancy within 3060 
days after the same occurs, then the city clerk shall call a special election at once to fill such vacancy 
such vacancy shall be filled by the mayor. TheAn appointee shall hold office until the next general 
election, when a successor shall be chosen by the electors for the unexpired term. If for any reason the 
seats of a majority of the council become vacant, then the city clerk shall call a special election at once 
to fill the vacancies for the unexpired terms, and the same shall be conducted substantially in the 
11 of 49

--- page 12 ---
manner provided for general municipal elections. The candidates receiving the most votes shall serve 
the longer, if any, of the unexpired terms, and in case of ties the terms shall be fixed by lot.
2.09
Meetings. Generally.
(a)  The council shall meet at the first regular council meeting in December following a general municipal 
election and canvass the returns thereof. The new members shall then be inducted into office, 
whereupon the council shall elect the mayor and deputy mayor without continuing such action to a 
future date and time absent a unanimous vote of the Council, or a fire, flood, or other disaster. 
(b)  The selection of the mayor and deputy mayor shall follow a rotational sequence.  The first person in 
the sequence shall be selected as mayor and the second person in the sequence shall be selected as 
deputy mayor.  Except however, a council member may decline to serve as mayor or deputy mayor, in 
which case the office would pass to the next council member in the rotation, and the council member 
who declined would drop back one position.  The rotational sequence shall be further specified by 
ordinance, and the rotational list shall be kept by the city clerk.
(c)  The regular meetings of the council shall be held on the first and third Monday of each month at a 
time specified by ordinance not earlier than 6:30 p.m., but any regular meeting may be adjourned to a 
date and time certain, which adjourned meeting shall be a regular meeting for all purposes. The council 
may, in its discretion, change the date of any regularly scheduled Monday council meeting which would 
fall on a holiday or other inconvenient day to the nearest convenient day subsequent to the regularly 
scheduled Monday council meeting.
Except as otherwise provided by state law, all meetings shall be open to the public.
2.10
Place of Meetings.
All regular and adjourned regular meetings of the council shall be held in the City Hall, unless, by reason 
of fire, flood or other disaster, the City Hall cannot be used for that purpose, or the council determines 
that another location in the city would be more suitable due to the capacity or condition of the City Hall. 
(Res. No. 66 § 3, eff. 11-7-17)
2.11
Special Meetings.
Special meetings may be called and held in the manner and as provided from time to time by the 
general law of the state.
2.12
Rules and Journal.
The council shall adopt rules for conducting its proceedings, and shall provide for keeping a journal of its 
proceedings, which shall be a public record. A reasonable number of copies of such rules shall be made 
available in the office of the city clerk for inspection by members of the public, and copies shall be 
furnished by the clerk upon payment of a reasonable charge for same.
2.13
Quorum.
A majority of the council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, but a less 
number may adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of absent members in such manner 
and under such penalties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
12 of 49

--- page 13 ---
2.14
Voting.
The affirmative vote of at least a majority of the council shall be necessary to adopt any resolutions, and 
the affirmative vote of a majority of the council shall be sufficient for adoption of ordinances except 
where a larger vote shall be required by law or other provisions of this Charter. Such votes shall be taken 
by "ayes" and "noes" and entered upon the record.
2.15
Ordinances, Generally.
(a) All proposed ordinances introduced in the council shall be in printed or typewritten form. 
The enacting clause of all ordinances passed by the council shall read as follows: "The Council of 
the City of San Mateo ordains as follows:". The enacting clause of all ordinances initiated by the 
people shall read as follows: "The People of the City of San Mateo ordain as follows:".
(b) No ordinance other than an emergency ordinance shall be passed by the council on the day 
of its introduction, nor within five days thereafter, nor at any time other than a regular or 
adjourned regular meeting.
(c) A notice of the general nature of the proposed ordinance or a copy thereof, and of the time 
and place for its consideration by the council shall be given to those news media to whom notice 
of special meetings of the council would be required under the general law of the state. A 
reasonable number of copies of the proposed ordinance shall be made available for public 
inspection at reasonable times in the clerk's office and at each of the city libraries, and such 
notice shall be given by the city clerk as soon as practicable following introduction of the 
ordinance. Failure to comply with this subsection shall not invalidate the ordinance, but a willful 
violation shall constitute a misdemeanor and malfeasance in office.
(d) A proposed ordinance may be amended or modified between the time of its introduction 
and the time of its final passage, provided its general scope and original purpose are retained. 
All ordinances shall be signed by the mayor and attested by the city clerk. Ordinances shall be 
published at least once in the official city newspaper before becoming effective; in lieu of 
publishing the full text of an ordinance, the city clerk may publish a summary of the scope and 
general purpose of the ordinance in the official city newspaper and post the full text of the 
ordinance in the office of the city clerk as well as publish the full text of an ordinance on the 
official city website.
2.16
Emergency Ordinances.
Any ordinance declared by the council to be necessary as an emergency measure for preserving the 
public peace, health, safety, or welfare and containing the reasons for its urgency, may be introduced 
and passed at one and the same meeting and, if passed by a majority of the council plus one, shall 
become effective immediately. As soon as practicable after its passage an emergency ordinance shall be 
published in the official city newspaper, but the validity of the ordinance shall not depend upon such 
publication. In lieu of publishing the full text of an emergency ordinance, a summary thereof may be 
published in the same manner as other ordinances. Every such ordinance, except one for emergency 
appropriations or calling an election, shall automatically stand repealed as of the ninety-first day 
following the date on which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance if 
the emergency still exists.    
13 of 49

--- page 14 ---
2.17
Investigations.
The council may make investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any city department, 
office, or agency, and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths and affirmations, take 
testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful 
order issued in the exercise of these powers by the council shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
2.18
City Attorney. Powers and Duties.
There shall be a city attorney who shall be appointed by and who shall serve at the pleasure of the 
council. The city attorney shall be an attorney at law licensed as such under the laws of this state, a 
specialist in municipal law, and must have been engaged in the practice of law for three years or have 
served in the capacity of municipal attorney or assistant municipal attorney for at least three years prior 
to appointment. The city attorney shall have the power and be required to:
(a) Serve as chief legal advisor to the council, the manager, and all city departments, offices and 
agencies.
(b) Prepare proposed ordinances and resolutions and advise the council as to their compliance 
with law and the provisions of this Charter, and draft contracts and other legal documents 
required by the council or other officials except as may be otherwise provided.
(c) Prior to the general municipal election each two years to review all city ordinances and the 
Charter, and at the first regular meeting of the council after such election make 
recommendations to the council for amendments to or repeal of ordinances and enactment of 
new ordinances in the city attorney's opinion required to improve the ordinance code, and for 
any Charter amendments the city attorney may deem advisable.
(d) Attend all meetings of the council unless excused by the council or the mayor.
(e) Perform any other duties prescribed by law, this Charter, or ordinance, or as the council may 
from time to time require not inconsistent with law or this Charter.
The city council may authorize the city attorney to hire additional attorneys and personnel for the city 
attorney's legal staff. Except as may otherwise be provided in this Charter or in ordinances relating to 
personnel approved by vote of the people, the city attorney's staff shall be appointed by and serve at 
the pleasure of the city attorney.
The city attorney shall receive such compensation for services as the council shall determine. When the 
city attorney is an in-house employee of the city, the city council may remove the city attorney at any 
time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the council plus one.
2.19
Control of Legal Proceedings.
Acting through the city attorney, the city council shall have control of all legal business and may employ 
additional attorneys to take charge of any litigation or matter or to assist the city attorney therein.
ARTICLE III CITY MANAGER
3.01
Appointment. Qualiﬁcations. Compensation.
14 of 49

--- page 15 ---
There shall be a city manager who shall be appointed by and who shall serve at the pleasure of the city 
council. The city manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of the city manager's executive and 
administrative qualifications. The city manager shall receive such compensation for services as the 
council shall determine.
3.02
Removal.
The council may remove the city manager from office in accordance with the following procedures:
(a) The council shall adopt by affirmative vote of a majority of the council plus one a preliminary 
resolution which must state the reasons for removal and may suspend the city manager from 
duty for a period not to exceed forty-five days. A copy of the resolution shall be delivered 
promptly to the city manager.
(b) Within five days after a copy of the resolution is delivered to the city manager, they he may 
file with the council a written request for a public hearing. This hearing shall be held at a council 
meeting not earlier than fifteen days nor later than thirty days after the request is filed. The city 
manager may file with the council a written reply not later than five days before the hearing.
(c) The council may adopt a final resolution of removal, which may be made effective 
immediately, by affirmative vote of a majority of the council plus one at any time after five days 
from the date when a copy of the preliminary resolution was delivered to the city manager, if 
the city managerhe has not requested a public hearing, or at any time after the public hearing if 
he the city manager has requested one.
(d) The city manager shall continue to receive their his salary until the effective date of a final 
resolution of removal. The action of the council in suspending or removing the manager shall be 
final.
(e) During the period of suspension and after the effective date of a final resolution of removal 
the powers of the city manager shall be exercised by an acting city manager until a new city 
manager is appointed and qualifies.
303
Acting City Manager.
By letter filed with the city clerk, the city manager shall designate a qualified city administrative officer 
to exercise the powers and perform the duties of the city manager during a temporary absence or 
disability. During such absence or disability, the council may revoke such designation at any time and 
appoint another officer of the city to serve until the city manager shall return.
3.04
Powers and Duties of the City Manager.
The city manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city. The city manager shall be 
responsible to the council for the administration of all city affairs placed in theirhis/her charge by or 
under this Charter. The city manager shall have the following powers and duties:
(a) To direct and supervise the administration of all departments, offices and agencies of the 
city, except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by law.
15 of 49

--- page 16 ---
(b) To attend all council meetings, unless excused by the council or the mayor, and shall have 
the right to take part in discussion but may not vote.
(c) To see that all laws, provisions of this Charter and acts of the council, subject to enforcement 
by the city manager him/her or by officers subject to the city manager’s his/her direction and 
supervision, are faithfully executed. To prepare and submit the annual budget and capital 
program to the council.
(d) To submit to the council and make available to the public a report on the finances and 
administrative activities of the city as of the end of each fiscal year.
(e) To make such other reports as the council may require concerning the operations of city 
departments, offices and agencies subject to the city manager’shis/her direction and 
supervision.
(f) To keep the council fully advised as to the financial condition and future needs of the city and 
make such recommendations to the council concerning the affairs of the city as he/shethe city 
manager deems desirable.
(g) To appoint such advisory boards as the city manager he/she may deem desirable to advise 
and assist the city managerhim in theirhis/her work, provided such boards shall not receive any 
compensation.
(h) At any time in the city manager’s his/her discretion, and with or without notice, examine or 
cause to be examined the conduct of any administrative officer or employee of the city.
(i) To perform such other duties as are specified in this Charter or may be required by the 
council.
ARTICLE IV GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
4.01
Officers and Employees. Generally.
In addition to members of the city council, the mayor, city manager, and city attorney, the officers and 
employees of the City of San Mateo shall consist of those provided for in this Charter, and such other 
officers and employees as the council may provide by ordinance or resolution or as may be required by 
law from time to time.
4.02
Administrative Departments. Generally.
The city council may provide by ordinance for the organization, conduct, creation, and operation of the 
departments of the city, and for their consolidation, alteration, or abolition. When the positions are not 
incompatible, the city council may combine in one person the powers and duties of two or more 
officers. There shall be a separate Police Department and Free Public Library, each of which shall remain 
as a separate department with its own department head, provided, however, that the city council may 
enter into agreements with other agencies for the joint provision of police or library services.
The city council may assign additional functions or duties to offices, departments or agencies. No office 
provided by this Charter to be filled by appointment by the city manager may be consolidated with an 
office to be filled by appointment by the city council.
16 of 49

--- page 17 ---
Subject to the provisions of this Charter, the city council shall provide for the number, titles, 
qualifications, powers, duties, compensation, benefits, and other conditions of employment of all 
officers and employees. Salaries shall be fixed by resolution. (Res. No. 75 § 2, eff. 12-5-16)
4.03
New Department.
Each department created by the city council shall be headed by an officer as department head who shall 
be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the city manager.
4.04
City Manager As Ex Officio Department Head.
Except as inconsistent with law or this Charter, with the consent of the city council the city manager may 
serve as the head of one or more of the administrative departments or may appoint one person as the 
head of two or more of them.
4.05
General Duties of Officers.
All officers who serve at the pleasure of the city manager shall have such duties as may be required of 
them by the city manager in addition to duties prescribed by law, by ordinance, or by this Charter.
4.06
Administrative Employees. Appointment and Removal.
Except as may otherwise be provided in this Charter or in ordinances relating to personnel approved by 
vote of the people, all administrative officers and employees shall be appointed by and serve at the 
pleasure of the city manager. With the consent of the city council, the city manager may authorize any 
administrative officer to exercise these powers with respect to subordinates in that officer's 
department.
4.07
Administering Oaths.
Each department head and deputies shall have the power to administer oaths and affirmations in 
connection with any official business pertaining to the department head's department.
4.08
Delivery of Properties to Successors.
All officers, boards, and commissions and members thereof shall surrender and deliver to their 
successors all official papers, books, documents, records, archives and other properties pertaining to 
their respective offices or departments in their possession or under their control. 
4.09
City Clerk. Powers and Duties.
There shall be a city clerk, who shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the city manager. The 
city clerk He/she shall be clerk of the council and keep an accurate record of all ordinances, resolutions 
and motions, shall have custody of the official seal and all official records committed to their his/her 
care, make affidavits and administer oaths without charge in matters affecting the business of the city, 
conduct elections, and shall perform the duties of a city clerk as provided by the general law of the state 
except as inconsistent with this Charter, and such other duties required by this Charter.
4.10
Treasurer/Fiscal Director. Powers and Duties.
17 of 49

--- page 18 ---
There shall be a city treasurer/fiscal director who shall be appointed by the city manager, subject to 
approval by the city council, and who shall serve at the pleasure of the city manager as the head of the 
finance department. The treasurer/fiscal director shall have the power and shall be required to receive 
and safely keep all money and securities belonging to the city, and pay out the same only on written 
authority of the city manager or other officer or officers designated by the city manager or as otherwise 
authorized by law, this Charter or ordinances adopted pursuant thereto, and not otherwise. The 
treasurer/fiscal director He/she shall also serve as ex officio tax and license collector for the city with the 
duties thereof as provided by ordinance or the general law of the state, unless the council by ordinance 
provides otherwise. The council may contract for the performance of the functions and duties of the 
treasurer/fiscal director.
Responsibility for the accounting system, accounts and controls, receipts and expenditures, and deposit 
and investment may be delegated by the city manager to the fiscal director. The fiscal director shall also 
have the power and be required to perform such other duties as are consistent with this Charter.
4.11
Librarian. Powers and Duties.
There shall be a librarian who shall be appointed by the city manager with the approval of the library 
board of trustees. The librarian shall serve at the pleasure of the manager, subject, however, to the 
power of the library board of trustees by the affirmative vote of a majority plus one to disapprove the 
suspension or removal of the librarian. The librarian shall be the department head, and subject to other 
provisions of this Charter, shall have charge of administration of the city libraries.
4.12
Human Resources Director. Powers and Duties.
There shall be a human resources director who shall be appointed by and who shall serve at the 
pleasure of the city manager. The human resources director shall have the responsibility of attending all 
meetings of any board or commission established to advise or deal with personnel matters, and shall 
administer laws, rules and ordinances affecting employees in the classified service not specifically 
reserved to the city manager or other officer or board or commission, by law, ordinance or this Charter, 
and shall establish and keep records of all officials and employees in the classified service. The human 
resources director shall have had at least three years progressively responsible experience in human 
resources administration and such other qualifications as may be required by ordinance. (Res. No. 66 § 
3, eff. 11-7-17)
4.13
Oath of Office.
Every officer, whether appointed or elected, shall take the constitutional oath of office and subscribe 
thereto before entering upon the performance of the officer’s his/her official duties.
ARTICLE V FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
5.01
Fiscal Year.
Unless changed by ordinance adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the council plus one, the 
fiscal year shall begin on the first day of July and shall end on the last day of June of the following year.
5.02
Budget.
18 of 49

--- page 19 ---
Each department of the city shall provide, in the form and at the time directed by the city manager, all 
information required by the city manager to develop a budget, including capital accounts, conforming to 
modern budget practices and procedures as well as specific information which may be prescribed by the 
council. At least 30 days before the commencement of a fiscal year, the city manager shall prepare and 
present to the council in such form and manner as it may prescribe budget recommendations for the 
next succeeding fiscal year. Following a public budget hearing, the council shall adopt by resolution a 
budget of proposed expenditures and appropriations necessary therefor for the ensuing year, failing 
which the appropriations and budget for the fiscal year shall be deemed effective in the new fiscal year 
until the new budget and appropriation measures are adopted.
5.03
Budget Limitation.
The total proposed budget requirements shall not exceed total available resources. (Res. No. 66 § 3, eff. 
11-7-17)
5.04
Unexpended and Unobligated Funds.
Unexpended and unobligated funds shall be held in reserve for contingencies or other purposes as 
determined by council. Funds held in reserve may be appropriated by resolution of the council, 
including, but not limited to, the annual budget resolution. (Res. No. 66 § 3, eff. 11-7-17)
5.05
Limitation on Reserves for Contingencies.
The council shall establish reserves which in its discretion are proper.
5.06
Budget Notices to Public.
On the first Monday and first Thursday in the last month of each fiscal year, the city manager shall cause 
to be published in the official city newspaper notice of the time for holding a public hearing on the 
budget. Copies of the proposed budget shall be made available for inspection by the public in the office 
of the city clerk at least 10 days prior to said hearing, and copies of the proposed budget shall be 
furnished at a reasonable charge to persons requesting same upon payment therefor.
5.07
Capital Program.
(a) The city manager shall annually prepare and submit to the council a five-year capital program 
at the same time budget recommendations for the next succeeding fiscal year are submitted to 
the council by the city manager.
(b) The capital program shall include:
(1) A clear, general summary of its contents.
(2) A list of all capital improvements which are proposed to be undertaken during the 
five fiscal years next ensuing, with appropriate supporting information as to the 
necessity for such improvements.
(3) Cost estimates, method of financing, and time schedules for each such improvement.
(4) The estimated annual cost of operating and maintaining facilities to be constructed 
or acquired.
19 of 49

--- page 20 ---
(c) The above information may be revised and extended each year with regard to capital 
improvements still pending or in process of construction or acquisition.
5.08
Capital Improvement Funds.
The council shall create a capital improvement fund with such capital improvement accounts as may be 
required to finance the improvements specified in the creation of such accounts, and each such account 
shall remain inviolate except for the purposes for which it was created, whether general or specific 
unless the use of any such account for some other capital improvement purpose is authorized by the 
affirmative vote of at least a majority of the council plus one. When the purpose of any capital 
improvement account has been accomplished, the council may transfer any unexpended or 
unencumbered surplus remaining in such account to any other general or specific capital improvement 
account.
5.09
Council Action on Capital Program.
On or before the last day of the first month of a current fiscal year the council, after due notice and 
public hearing, shall by resolution, adopt the capital program, with or without amendment thereto.
5.10
Other Funds.
The council shall create such other special funds as are required for proper accounting and fiscal 
management, or required as a condition of receiving funds from any other government or to fulfill any 
bonded or other contractual obligation of the city.
5.11
Levy of Property Tax. Procedure for Assessment and Collection.
To the extent that the Constitution does not limit the setting of the ad valorem property tax rate, the 
city council shall: Not later than the date set by state law for this purpose, the council shall by resolution 
fix the rate of property tax to be levied and levy the tax upon all taxable property in the city. Such rate 
shall be adequate to meet all obligations of the city for the fiscal year, taking into account estimated 
revenue from all other sources. Should the council fail to fix the rate and levy taxes within the time 
prescribed, the rate for the next preceding fiscal year shall thereupon be automatically effective, and a 
tax at such rate shall be levied upon all taxable property in the city for the current fiscal year. The 
procedure for the assessment and collection of taxes upon property, taxable for municipal purposes, 
shall be prescribed by ordinance of the city council.
5.12
Dollar Limit.
Repealed. (Res. No. 66 § 2, eff. 11-7-17)
5.13
Supplemental, Emergency, and Lapsed Appropriations.
(a) Supplemental Appropriations: If during the fiscal year there are funds available for 
appropriation, the council by resolution may make supplemental appropriations. At any time 
during the fiscal year, the city manager may transfer part or all of any unencumbered 
appropriation balance among programs within a department and, upon written request of the 
city manager, the council may by resolution transfer part or all of any unencumbered 
appropriation balance from one department to another; provided that no appropriation for debt 
service may be reduced or transferred, and no appropriation may be reduced below any amount 
20 of 49

--- page 21 ---
required by law to be appropriated or by more than the amount of the unencumbered balance 
thereof.
(b) Lapsed Appropriations: Every appropriation, except an appropriation for a capital 
expenditure, grant funds, or other funds not within the budgeting authority of the city council, 
shall lapse at the close of the fiscal year to the extent that it has not been expended or 
encumbered. (Res. No. 66 § 3, eff. 11-7-17)
5.14
Accounting System.
The city manager shall establish and maintain a system of financial procedures, accounts, and controls 
for the city government and each of its departments, which shall conform to generally accepted 
principles of accounting which shall be adequate to account for all money on hand and for all income 
and expenditures in such detail as will provide complete and informative data concerning the financial 
affairs of the city and in such manner as the council may prescribe and as will be readily susceptible to 
audit and review.
5.15
Receipts and Expenditures.
All money received by the city shall be deposited in the city treasury and in institutions and investments 
authorized for cities by law, and no money shall be disbursed without the approval of the city manager 
or of another officer duly authorized by the city managerhim/her. No expenditure of city funds shall be 
made except for the purposes and in the manner specified by an appropriation of the council; nor shall 
any disbursement be made unless obligations are properly supported by accounting evidence and 
sufficient funds are available. The city manager or other officer authorized by the city managerhim/her 
to make disbursements shall be represented by the city attorney in all legal matters in connection 
therewith. (Res. No. 66 § 3, eff. 11-7-17)
5.16
Deposit and Investment.
The city manager shall arrange for the deposit in the city treasury and in institutions and investments 
authorized for cities by law of all funds collected by the city, according to a schedule prescribed by 
him/her. After taking into account the amounts necessary to meet the current and pending 
requirements of the city, the city manager may arrange for the term deposit in financial institutions 
authorized by law and investment in securities authorized by law of any balances available for such 
purpose and the yield therefrom shall be credited as revenue to the general fund unless otherwise 
provided by law or directed by the council.
5.17
Cash Pool Operations. Check System.
The council may by ordinance provide for financing of municipal obligations by cash pool operations, 
and for utilization of a check system, or other system equivalent or comparable thereto, including credit 
and debit cards, rather than the warrant system. Except for those funds restricted by bond indentures, 
state or federal law, other sections of this Charter or specific conditions of the legislation creating them, 
temporary transfers between funds are permitted.
The council shall from time to time by ordinance provide for methods for issuance of checks, drafts 
and/or other orders for payment of money in the name of the city, and for authorized signatures to 
negotiable instruments drawn in the name of the city, and may authorize facsimile as well as actual 
21 of 49

--- page 22 ---
signatures to be valid and binding on the city, and shall prescribe such system as it shall deem advisable 
to protect against unauthorized issuance of checks, drafts or other orders for payment of money in the 
name of the city.
5.18
Payment of Salaries.
All demands for salaries which are fixed by law, resolution, or this Charter, shall be allowed and paid 
regularly without the necessity of any specific approval for each payment.
5.19
Surplus Bond Money.
All money derived from the sale of bonds, including premiums and accrued interest, shall be applied 
only to the purposes for which the bonds were issued. After such purposes have been fully completed 
and paid for, any remaining surplus shall be transferred to the fund established for meeting the interest 
and redemption of such bonds.
5.20
Purchases and Contracts.
The city manager or an officer authorized by the city managerhim/her shall purchase or contract for 
equipment, materials, supplies, and public works required by the city in the manner prescribed by 
ordinance.
5.21
Bids and Awards.
The council shall establish by ordinance the conditions and procedures for any purchase or contract, and 
establish advertising and bidding requirements, and may provide that all bids may be rejected. The 
ordinance may provide that under specified conditions which the awarding authority must find and 
determine to exist in each applicable instance, advertising and bidding may be dispensed with, except 
the ordinance may provide that where the expenditure required for a purchase or contract does not 
exceed a sum fixed by the ordinance advertising and bidding shall be dispensed with unless the council 
shall for a particular purchase or contract order advertising and bidding.
5.22
Official Bonds.
The council shall determine which officers and employees shall give bonds for the faithful performance 
of their official duties, and fix the amount of said bonds and provide for payment of the premium of 
such bonds by the city. Such officers and employees, before entering upon their official duties, shall 
execute a bond to the city in the penal sum required, which bond shall include any other offices of which 
they may be ex officio incumbent. Said bonds shall be approved by the council and filed with the city 
clerk.
5.23
Revenue Bonds.
The council may issue revenue bonds for any lawful purpose in such manner and upon such terms and 
conditions as it may fix and establish by the provisions of a procedural ordinance.
5.24
Public Improvements and Street Work.
All public improvements, including improving, widening or opening of streets or highways, may be done 
under and in pursuance of the general law of the state or procedural ordinances adopted by the council 
or the electors, and the whole or any portion of the cost thereof paid by the city or assessed on the 
22 of 49

--- page 23 ---
property benefitted; provided that, except in a case of actual emergency the nature and existence of 
which is found and determined by resolution adopted by unanimous vote of the council, no public 
improvements to be financed by a bonded indebtedness of a city-wide district to be created under 
ordinances heretofore or hereafter enacted shall be made unless the indebtedness is authorized by vote 
of the people as required under state law for issuance of general obligation municipal bonds.
5.25
Franchises.
Every franchise, contract, or privilege for a public utility to construct, maintain, or operate any railroad 
or other means of transportation in or over any street or highway, or to lay pipes or conduits, or erect 
poles or wires or other structures in or across any street or highway for the transmission of gas, 
electricity, or other commodity or utility, or for the use of public property or places now or hereafter 
belonging to the city, shall be granted by the city council pursuant to ordinance or the general laws of 
the State upon such terms and conditions as the city council deems proper.
No franchise, privilege, or contract shall be construed to impair or affect the right of the city to acquire 
the property of the grantee either by purchase or through the exercise of the right of eminent domain.
5.26
Auditing.
The council shall employ, by majority vote, a certified public accountant, or a firm of certified public 
accountants as independent auditor to conduct an annual audit and examination of the fiscal 
administration of the city. Copies of the annual audit and report shall, within a reasonable time after 
receipt thereof by the council, be furnished at a reasonable charge to persons requesting same upon 
payment therefor.
Unless the council shall by ordinance make other provision for the performance of the following 
functions, the independent auditor shall by contract also be required:
(a) To make such periodic examinations of the systems and procedures of the city for the 
receipt, disbursement, and accounting for funds of all types as are necessary to satisfy the 
auditor that such systems and procedures are efficient and give adequate protection for 
safeguarding city assets, protect against improper disbursements and assure reasonable 
protection against irregularity or defalcation.
(b) To make such sample tests, observations, inquiries and independent substantiations as are 
necessary to satisfy the auditor, within reason, that there is proper compliance with prescribed 
systems and procedures or in the operation thereof.
(c) To report the results thereof periodically to the city manager and the council, and report to 
the council instances of non-compliance with prescribed or recommended fiscal or accounting 
procedures where recommendations for compliance have not been implemented after 
reasonable time and opportunity.
The council may direct the city manager to report on the action taken or to be taken to remedy 
deficiencies reported by the auditor.
ARTICLE VI BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
6.01
Library Board of Trustees. Powers and Duties.
23 of 49

--- page 24 ---
There shall be a library board of trustees consisting of five members which shall have the power and 
duty to:
(a) Exercise the sole responsibility for establishment from time to time of library department 
policy in selection of books, reading, visual, auditory and like material to be acquired or 
purchased and the classification thereof, subject, however, to limitations of the budget for such 
purposes.
(b) Make and enforce such bylaws, rules and regulations as may be necessary or appropriate in 
the maintenance and operation of public libraries free to the permanent inhabitants and non- 
resident taxpayers of the city, including fines, penalties, and provision for collection of 
obligations to the library.
(c) Accept in the name of the city, money, personal property, or real property donated to the 
city for library purposes, subject to approval of the council, except that unless the council by 
ordinance provides otherwise, the board shall have the power to accept gifts other than real 
property in an amount or value of Five Hundred Dollars or less for library purposes or use 
without specific consent of the council where no obligation attaches to the city other than use 
for benefit of the libraries, and to hold, convert to cash, invest in insured savings, or expend 
same for the use and benefit of the libraries.
Funds received by way of gift or bequest for the benefit of the city libraries shall not be subject 
to appropriation for other purposes, nor other than as provided by the donors except as may be 
authorized by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(d) Hold in trust and provide for the proper application and use to the library of any gift, devise, 
or bequest in accordance with the terms and conditions thereof where payment into the city 
treasury is inconsistent with such terms and conditions, provided the council shall first have 
approved acceptance of such terms and conditions.
(e) Approve or disapprove the appointment of the librarian, and disapprove of the suspension or 
removal of the librarian by the affirmative vote of a majority plus one of the board.
(f) Sell or otherwise dispose of surplus books and other excess materials peculiar to a public 
library under such procedures and upon such conditions as the council shall by ordinance 
prescribe.
(g) Establish conditions under which non-residents may exercise library privileges.
(h) Serve in an advisory capacity to the librarian, city manager and council with respect to the 
establishment, maintenance, operation and management of the city libraries, and have and 
exercise such other powers, duties and responsibilities with respect to the libraries as may be 
prescribed by ordinance not inconsistent with law or this Charter.
The council may by ordinance from time to time prescribe appropriate procedures for the purchase of 
books and other materials peculiar to the libraries.
6.02
Library Fund.
24 of 49

--- page 25 ---
At such times that the council sets the tax rate, the council shall provide for maintaining the libraries and 
the operation thereof, and apportion the revenue thus provided to a fund designated in the budget as 
the library fund. Such tax shall be in addition to other taxes permitted in the municipality, but shall not 
exceed Thirty Cents per One Hundred Dollars assessed valuation. Payments from the library fund shall 
be made for all claims properly chargeable against the same.
6.03
Library Board of Trustees. Appointment, Removal, Terms.
Members of the library board of trustees shall be appointed in the same manner and for the same 
terms, and subject to the same limitations, as in this Charter provided for city commissions in general, 
except that a member of the library board of trustees shall be subject to removal from office by action 
of the council only after being furnished on demand a written statement of the cause and being 
afforded an opportunity for a public hearing.
The incumbent members of the library board of trustees at the time this Charter takes effect, and any 
successor by appointment to fill any vacancy then existing, shall constitute the first library board of 
trustees under this Charter.
6.04
Planning Commission. Other Boards and Commissions.
In addition to the library board of trustees there shall be a planning commission which shall have the 
powers and duties from time to time provided by law or by ordinance.
There shall also be such other boards and commissions as may from time to time be established by 
ordinance adopted by the council or approved by the people. Except as may otherwise be provided by 
this Charter, or ordinance of the council or ordinance approved by the people, all such other boards and 
commissions now or hereafter established shall be for advisory purposes only to the council, the city 
manager, or to departments within the city. A board or commission shall be considered to be advisory 
even if it is authorized to take final action subject to appeal to the city council.
6.05
Composition. Qualiﬁcations. Terms and Limits of Terms.
The members of all boards and commissions created by ordinance or by this Charter shall be appointed 
by the council, and shall at the time of appointment and while serving possess the same qualifications as 
required by this Charter for election or appointment to the council, unless otherwise provided by the 
Council.
The number of members of such a board or commission shall not exceed the authorized number of 
members of the city council unless the ordinance establishing such additional number be approved by 
vote of the people or by unanimous vote of the council.
The members of such boards and commissions shall be appointed for terms of four years, except that if 
the ordinance provides, initial terms may be pared by lot as necessary so that each year one or more 
terms will expire.
The terms of office of existing boards or commissions having regular terms of more or less than four 
years shall be pared or extended as to incumbents in such manner as the city council shall determine so 
as to establish four-year terms in conformity with this section within two years after this Charter goes 
into effect.
25 of 49

--- page 26 ---
No member of a board or commission shall be eligible for reappointment to the same board or 
commission after serving two consecutive four-year terms provided that no partial term of office shall 
be counted as any portion of the consecutive terms.
6.06
Payment of Expenses. Prohibition of Compensation.
The members of such boards and commissions shall receive no compensation for their services as such, 
but may receive reimbursement for their actual and necessary expenses authorized by the city council 
and incurred in performance of their duties of office upon presentation of verified claims therefor on 
uniform forms to be prescribed by resolution of the city council.
6.07
Appropriations for Boards and Commissions. 
The city council shall include in its annual budget such appropriations of funds as in its opinion shall be 
sufficient for the efficient and proper functioning of such boards and commissions.
6.08
Removal from Office. Vacancies.
Members of such boards and commissions shall serve at the pleasure of the city council, and any 
member may be removed by the vote of a majority of the council plus one. If a member of a board or 
commission absents himself themselves from three consecutive meetings unless by permission of the 
board or commission expressed in its minutes, or is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude, or 
loses the qualifications required for appointment in the first instance, theirhis office shall automatically 
become vacant and shall be so declared by the city council.
Any vacancies shall be filled by appointment by the city council for the remainder of the unexpired term.
6.09
Special Committees. Limitations.
The city council may from time to time establish citizens or taxpayers' committees for specific advisory 
purposes only, and for periods not exceeding two years. Such a committee may be renewed or extended 
by action of the council anew for a period not exceeding the original term of the committee. The city 
council may include in its annual budget, or in interim appropriations, such funds as in its opinion shall 
be sufficient to accomplish the purpose of such committees.
6.10
Ex Officio Members.
The city manager and the city attorney, or their representatives, and a representative from the city 
council, shall be ex officio members of all boards, commissions, and committees. The council may in the 
ordinance establishing any advisory board, commission, or committee provide for additional ex officio 
members who shall be appointed by the council for such terms as may be prescribed but who need not 
possess the qualifications required of regular members. Ex officio members shall have the same rights as 
official members including the right to attend meetings and participate in discussions, but shall not be 
entitled to vote.
6.11
Power of Subpoena. Limitations.
No board, commission, or committee shall have the power of subpoena to compel attendance of 
witnesses, to examine them under oath, to compel production of evidence before it and to administer 
oaths and affirmations, unless such power shall be granted by ordinance approved by a majority of the 
26 of 49

--- page 27 ---
city council plus one. The power of subpoena being so granted, the same may be exercised by issuance 
of subpoena by the city clerk upon application in writing by the city attorney, by the chairperson of the 
board, commission, or committee, or by a majority of the board, commission, or committee. 
Disobedience of a lawful order issued in exercise of such powers shall be a misdemeanor.
6.12
Declaration of Policy. Citizen Participation.
It is and shall be the policy of the City of San Mateo to foster a climate of human relations favorable to 
the full acceptance and participation of all citizens in the community in the economic, educational, 
political and cultural aspects of the community and opportunity to share in the benefits thereof without 
regard to race, religion, gender, national origin, or other factors which are prohibited from 
discrimination in appointments to local government boards, commissions, and committees by federal or 
state law.
To that end, and to secure for the city the benefit of the talents, skills and counsel of public-spirited and 
dedicated citizens in all areas of local government, it is the policy of the city that advisory boards, 
commissions and committees be established from time to time as the council deems appropriate in 
furtherance of community progress and harmony, and the solution of community problems.
ARTICLE VII ELECTIONS
7.01
General Municipal Elections.
General municipal elections shall be held in the city on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in 
November of each even-numbered year, in the manner provided by state law governing elections in 
general law cities; provided, that in the event any other election shall be held in the city in the month of 
November of the same year, the council may consolidate the general municipal election with such other 
election whenever practicable, and shall in any event call and schedule the general municipal election 
for the same date as any such other election. (Res. No. 65 § 3, eff. 11-7-17)
7.02
Special Municipal Elections.
Special municipal elections may be called and held in accordance with and in the manner provided by 
state law governing elections in general law cities.
7.03
Initiative, Referendum and Recall.
The people of the city reserve to themselves the powers of initiative, referendum, and the recall of 
elected officials, to be exercised in accordance with and in the manner provided by state law governing 
general law cities.
7.04
Reserved. Veriﬁed Statement of Candidates.
(a) No earlier than the first day, and no later than the last day, specified or provided under state 
law for the filing of nomination papers by any candidate for elective municipal office in general 
law cities, as such law shall be in effect on the first day of January next preceding the municipal 
election, each candidate for an elective office shall file with the city clerk a statement containing 
the following information in the order herein set forth:
(1) His/her name;
27 of 49

--- page 28 ---
(2) The office for which he/she is a candidate;
(3) His/her present residence and occupation;
(4) The various kinds of business or employment he/she has been engaged in during the 
past five years and where, also the positions of importance and trust which he/she may 
have held in connection therewith;
 (5) The civic, improvement or other organizations which he/she has been a member of 
within the past five years and the positions of honor or trust, which he/she may have 
held therein;
(6) The public offices he/she ever held, if any, as principal, deputy or employee;
(7) The experience, training or education he/she has received which, in his/her opinion, 
would qualify him to fill the office for which he/she is a candidate;
(8) The length of time he/she has been a resident in the city;
(9) The principal public improvements or betterments which he/she would urge the 
accomplishment of if elected;
(10) The names of not more than 15 residents who know something of his/her character 
and abilities;
(11) Any other information which, in his/her opinion, would enable the electors to 
determine his/her qualifications for said office.
(b) Said statement shall be verified, and be accompanied by a photograph of the candidate 
taken within the past two years.
(c) The city clerk shall cause the publication of the statements of each candidate so filed, with 
the candidate's photo engraving annexed thereto, in the official city newspaper by two 
insertions therein prior to the day of election. No response to any one of the various 
requirements above- mentioned shall exceed 100 words in length.
(d) The failure to submit the statement or other information shall not disqualify the candidate.
ARTICLE VIII PARKS
8.01
Dedication for Park Purposes.
Lands owned by the City which are more than four acres in size and which are dedicated by ordinance of 
the City Council for park, playground, recreation, or open space purposes shall not thereafter be sold or 
otherwise disposed of, nor converted to different purposes, except pursuant to majority vote of the 
electorate. The City Council may lease such dedicated lands for park, playground, recreation, or open 
space purposes. "Majority vote of the electorate" shall mean majority of the persons voting on the 
measure.
8.02
Conveyance of Minor Portion.
28 of 49

--- page 29 ---
Without an election, the City Council may convey a minor portion of such dedicated lands after (a) 
notice and public hearing, (b) determination that the conveyance is in the public interest, and (c) 
adoption of a resolution authorizing the conveyance.
ARTICLE IX MISCELLANEOUS
9.01
Personal Financial Interest.
City officers and employees shall comply with the general law regarding disclosure of and 
disqualification on account of personal financial interests.
9.02
Prohibitions.
(a) Activities Prohibited:
(1) No person shall be appointed to or removed from, or in any way favored or 
discriminated against with respect to any city position or appointive city administrative 
office on account of any matter that constitutes employment discrimination in state or 
federal law.
(2) No person shall willfully make any false statement, certificate, mark, rating or report 
in regard to any test, certification, or appointment under the personnel provisions of 
this Charter, or ordinances relating to personnel, or rules and regulations made 
thereunder, or in any manner commit or attempt to commit any fraud preventing the 
impartial execution of such provisions, rules and regulations.
(3) No person who seeks appointment or promotion with respect to any city appointive 
position or appointive city office shall directly or indirectly give, render or pay any 
money, service or other valuable thing to any person for or in connection with the 
person’s his/her test, appointment, proposed appointment, promotion or proposed 
promotion.
(4) No city officer or employee shall grant special consideration, treatment, advantages, 
or use of city-owned property to himself/herself or any citizen beyond that which is 
available to every other citizen, nor shall any city officer or employee charge or collect 
any fee, commission or percentage by way of compensation to himself/herself.
(b) Penalties: Any person who alone or with others willfully violates any of the foregoing 
provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person convicted under this 
section shall be ineligible for a period of five years thereafter to hold any office or position with 
the city, and, if an officer or employee of the city, shall immediately forfeit theirhis office or 
position.
(c) The council may by ordinance define, prohibit, and provide penalties for substantial conflicts 
of personal interest of city officers and employees.
9.03
Nepotism.
The city council shall not appoint to a salaried position under the city government, or to any board or 
commission, any person who is a relative by blood or marriage within the third degree of any one or 
29 of 49

--- page 30 ---
more of the members of such city council, nor shall any department head or other officer having 
appointive power appoint any relative of theirshis/her or of one or more of the members of such city 
council within such degree to any such position.
9.04
Dual Offices.
Any elective officer of the city who shall accept or retain any other incompatible elective public office 
shall be deemed thereby to have vacated theirhis/her office under the city government.
9.05
Violations of Charter and Ordinances.
The violation of any express provision of this Charter shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor as well as 
any violation specifically declared herein to be a misdemeanor. Such violations shall be punishable by 
fine not exceeding One Thousand Dollars or by imprisonment for not exceeding six months, or by both 
such fine and imprisonment. The violation of an ordinance shall be punishable as in the ordinance. The 
city council by ordinance may establish civil penalty provisions.
9.06
Municipal Affairs.
The city may adopt and enforce all ordinances, resolutions, and regulations in respect to municipal 
affairs, subject only to restrictions and limitations provided in this Charter and the Constitution of the 
State of California. It shall also have the power to exercise any and all rights, powers, and privileges, 
including proprietary powers, heretofore or hereafter established, granted, or prescribed by any law of 
the State, by this Charter, or by any other lawful authority, or which a municipal corporation might or 
could exercise under the Constitution of the State of California, including all powers not in conflict with 
the provisions of this Charter now or hereafter granted to cities organized under the general law of the 
State of California. The enumeration in this Charter of any power shall not be held to be exclusive of or a 
limitation upon this general grant of power. To the extent permissible by law, general laws of the State, 
even in the absence of council action, shall not be of any force or effect insofar as they attempt to 
regulate municipal affairs.
9.07
Official City Newspaper.
The council periodically shall advertise for or call for the submission of sealed proposals or bids from all 
newspapers adjudicated to be newspapers of general circulation within the city, or if none, then from 
newspapers adjudicated to be newspapers of general circulation with in the County of San Mateo, for 
the publication of all ordinances and other legal notices required to be published.
The council may designate the requirements for award of contract. The contract therefor shall be 
awarded to the lowest responsible bidder, provided the rates for such publication shall not exceed the 
customary rate charged for publishing legal notices of a private character. The newspaper to whom such 
contract is awarded shall be known and designated as the official city newspaper.
In the event no such newspaper will contract with the city as herein provided, or if the official city 
newspaper is not published, then notice of the matters required to be published in the official city 
newspaper shall be given by posting copies thereof at three or more public places in the city as 
designated by the council, and such posting shall be equivalent to legal publication.
9.08
Deﬁnitions.
30 of 49

--- page 31 ---
Unless the provision or the context requires otherwise, as used in this Charter: "shall" is mandatory and 
"may" is permissive; "law", "state law", "general law", and similar terms, mean the law as it now exists 
or may hereafter be enacted applicable to general law cities in this state; "state" means the State of 
California; "county" means the County of San Mateo; "city" means the City of San Mateo; nouns or 
pronouns includes the masculine, feminine, and the neuter, and the singular includes the plural.
9.09
Severability.
If any section or subsection of this Charter, or the application thereof, is held invalid, that invalidity shall 
not affect the validity and enforceability of any other section or subsection and this Charter shall 
continue in full force and effect as if the invalid section or subsection were not a part of the Charter.
ARTICLE X TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
10.01
Continuing Officers and Employees.
Until the election or appointment and induction into office of the officers and employees in this Charter 
provided for, the present officers and employees shall without interruption, continue to perform the 
duties of their respective offices and employments, and until otherwise provided by ordinance or 
resolution adopted pursuant to this Charter.
10.02
Continuing Ordinances in Force.
All lawful ordinances, resolutions, and regulations in force at the time this Charter takes effect, and not 
inconsistent with its provisions, are hereby continued in force so far as not inconsistent until the same 
shall have been duly amended, repealed, or superseded. To the extent the same are inconsistent or 
interfere with the effective operation of this Charter or of ordinances or resolutions adopted pursuant 
thereto they are repealed as of the effective date of this Charter.
10.03
Continuing Contracts in Force.
All vested rights of the city shall continue and shall not in any manner be affected by the adoption of this 
Charter; nor shall any right, liability, pending suit or prosecution, either in behalf of or against the city, 
be affected by the adoption of this Charter. All contracts entered into by the city prior to the taking 
effect of this Charter shall continue in full force and effect. All public work begun prior to the taking 
effect of this Charter shall be continued and perfected hereunder.
10.04
When Charter Effective. Temporary Ordinances.
This Charter shall go into effect for all purposes at the first regular meeting of the city council following 
approval of this Charter by the legislature. At that meeting or at any meeting held within sixty days 
thereafter the council may adopt temporary ordinances, plainly labeled as such, to deal with cases of 
urgent need for prompt action in connection with transition of government in which delay incident to 
appropriate ordinance procedures would probably cause serious hardship or impair effective city 
government. Such a temporary ordinance may be adopted with or without amendment at the meeting 
at which it is introduced and may be made effective immediately, and shall not be subject to the 
referendum, but it shall stand repealed on the ninety-first day following its adoption and shall not be 
renewed or otherwise extended as a temporary or emergency ordinance. It shall be published in the 
same manner as an emergency ordinance.
31 of 49

--- page 32 ---
From:
Patrice Olds
To:
Prasanna Rasiah; Martin McTaggart
Subject:
FW: Charter Amendment Language for Mayoral Rotation
Date:
Tuesday, January 2, 2024 4:44:55 PM
 
 
From: Seema Patel 
 
Sent: Tuesday, January 2, 2024 4:40 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Charter Amendment Language for Mayoral Rotation
 
Hello City Council!
 
I'd like to reiterate my public comment from the last discussion of the Charter Amendments
concerning the Mayoral rotation. I believe that some of the language needs to be clarified to
eliminate ambiguity.
 
Both the existing and proposed Charter language reads, "The council shall meet at the first regular
council meeting in December following a general municipal election and canvass the returns thereof.
The new members shall then be inducted into office, whereupon the council shall elect the mayor
and deputy mayor..."
 
In December of 2022 supporters of delaying the Mayoral vote beyond the vacancy appointment
claimed the Charter supported that course of action by arguing that appointments to vacant seats
were included in the directive, “The new members shall then be inducted into office…” (emphasis
mine).
 
I suggest including the word "elected" in that sentence to make it crystal clear that "new members"
does not include appointed members, e.g. "The newly elected members shall then be inducted into
office…” (emphasis mine).
 
Thank you for your consideration!
Regards,
Seema Patel
32 of 49

--- page 33 ---
Charter Amendments
Study Session
January 2, 2024
Prasanna W. Rasiah
City Attorney
33 of 49

--- page 34 ---
Questions for Council
1. Does the Council agree with:
• Proposed language addressing Mayoral rotation?
• Recommendations for board and commission 
compensation and qualifications?
• Other proposed changes?
2. Does the Council wish to adjust Council compensation?
• If so, in what amount (from the current $600 to a 
maximum of $1,900 per month)
34 of 49

--- page 35 ---
Mayoral Rotation – Previously Proposed
• The council shall meet at the first regular council meeting in 
December following a general municipal election and 
canvass the returns thereof. 
• The new members shall then be inducted into office, 
whereupon the council shall elect the mayor and deputy 
mayor without continuing such action to a future date and 
time absent a unanimous vote of the Council, or a fire, 
flood, or other disaster. 
35 of 49

--- page 36 ---
Mayoral Rotation – New Language Pt. 1
• The selection of the mayor and deputy mayor shall follow a 
rotational sequence.  The first person in the sequence shall 
be selected as mayor and the second person in the 
sequence shall be selected as deputy mayor.  
36 of 49

--- page 37 ---
Mayoral Rotation – New Language Pt. 2
• The selection of the mayor and deputy mayor shall follow a rotational 
sequence.  The first person in the sequence shall be selected as mayor 
and the second person in the sequence shall be selected as deputy 
mayor.  
• Except however, a council member may decline to serve as 
mayor or deputy mayor, in which case the office would 
pass to the next council member in the rotation, and the 
council member who declined would drop back one 
position.  
37 of 49

--- page 38 ---
Mayoral Rotation – New Language Pt. 3
• The selection of the mayor and deputy mayor shall follow a rotational 
sequence.  The first person in the sequence shall be selected as mayor and 
the second person in the sequence shall be selected as deputy mayor.  
• Except however, a council member may decline to serve as mayor or deputy 
mayor, in which case the office would pass to the next council member in 
the rotation, and the council member who declined would drop back one 
position.  
• The rotational sequence shall be further specified by 
ordinance, and the rotational list shall be kept by the city 
clerk.  
38 of 49

--- page 39 ---
Council Meeting Time
• The regular meetings of the council shall be held on the first 
and third Monday of each month at a time specified by 
ordinance not earlier than 6:30 p.m., but any regular 
meeting may be adjourned to a date and time certain, which 
adjourned meeting shall be a regular meeting for all 
purposes. 
39 of 49

--- page 40 ---
Filling Council Vacancies – (Previously proposed)
• A vacancy on the city council from whatever cause arising 
shall be filled by appointment by the council provided, that 
• if the council fails to agree or for any other reason does not 
fill such vacancy within 30 60 days after the same occurs, 
then the city clerk shall call a special election at once to fill 
such vacancy such vacancy shall be filled by the mayor.
• The An appointee shall hold office until the next general 
election, when a successor shall be chosen by the electors 
for the unexpired term.
40 of 49

--- page 41 ---
Board & Commission Qualifications & 
Compensation (Current language) Pt. 1 
• The members of all boards and commissions created by 
ordinance or by this Charter shall be appointed by the 
council, and shall at the time of appointment and while 
serving possess the same qualifications as required by this 
Charter for election or appointment to the council
41 of 49

--- page 42 ---
Board & Commission Qualifications & 
Compensation (Current language) Pt. 2 
• The members of such boards and commissions shall receive 
no compensation for their services as such, 
• but may receive reimbursement for their actual and 
necessary expenses authorized by the city council and 
incurred in performance of their duties of office upon 
presentation of verified claims therefor on uniform forms to 
be prescribed by resolution of the city council.
42 of 49

--- page 43 ---
Council Compensation – Current Language
• The mayor and other members of the city council shall each 
receive $600.00 per month compensation for their services 
as council 
• Compensation may be adjusted in the manner authorized by 
the general laws of the State for general law cities of the 
same population as San Mateo
43 of 49

--- page 44 ---
Council Compensation – SM County Cities Pt. 1
City
Compensation/Month
Last Adjusted
Atherton
None
n/a
Belmont
$950
2023
Brisbane
$400
2015
Burlingame
$590
1999
Colma
$961
2018
Daly City
$1102.92 bi-weekly
2006
Foster City
$496
2009
Half Moon Bay
$1,056 $955.50
2021
44 of 49

--- page 45 ---
Council Compensation – SM County Cities Pt. 2
City
Compensation/ Month
Last Adjusted
Hillsborough
None
n/a
Menlo Park
$650 $640
2000
Millbrae
$345
1999
Pacifica
$700
2022
Redwood City
$750
2001
San Carlos 
$560
2018
South SF
$1000
2017
Woodside
None
n/a
45 of 49

--- page 46 ---
Questions for Council
1. Does the Council agree with:
• Proposed language addressing Mayoral rotation?
• Recommendations for board and commission 
compensation and qualifications?
• Other proposed changes?
2. Does the Council wish to adjust Council compensation?
• If so, in what amount (from the current $600 to a 
maximum of $1,900 per month)
46 of 49

--- page 47 ---
Filling Council Vacancies – Part 2 (Previously 
proposed)
• If for any reason the seats of a majority of the council 
become vacant, then the city clerk shall call a special 
election at once to fill the vacancies for the unexpired terms, 
and the same shall be conducted substantially in the manner 
provided for general municipal elections. 
• The candidates receiving the most votes shall serve the 
longer, if any, of the unexpired terms, and in case of ties 
the terms shall be fixed by lot.
47 of 49

--- page 48 ---
Proposed Schedule
Dates
Purpose
October 16, 2023
Council Study Session - Done
January 2, 2024
Council Study Session - Tonight
February 20, 2024
Council Study Session (if necessary)
April 1, 2024
First Public Hearing
May 6, 2024
Second Public Hearing
June 3, 2024
Council submits measure to voters 
August 9, 2024
88 days before election
November 5, 2024
Election Day
48 of 49

--- page 49 ---
Council Meeting Location
• All regular and adjourned regular meetings of the council shall be 
held in the City Hall, unless, by reason of fire, flood or other 
disaster, the City Hall cannot be used for that purpose, or the 
council determines that another location in the city would be more 
suitable due to the capacity or condition of the City Hall.
49 of 49