--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
August 20, 2026
6:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Adam Loraine
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
Robert Newsom Jr.
AMENDED AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: August 20, 2026
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID:  899 4193 7699      No Passcode Required
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
 
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of this item.
1.
Candidate Briefing for the November 2026 Election
The City will be hosting a Candidate Briefing for the November 3, 2026 Statewide General Election to provide
candidates with an overview of key election procedures, campaign requirements, important deadlines, and an
opportunity to ask questions about the election process.
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: 
Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form. Organized Group and Presentations: Up to five (5) minutes for a group presentation,
with as many speakers as can be accommodated within that time allowance. To qualify for a group presentation, all individuals associated with the
presentation must be clearly identified and confirmed as in attendance at the meeting. Presentation materials must be submitted to
clerk@cityofsanmateo.org one (1) business day in advance of the meeting.

--- page 2 ---
Presentations: PowerPoints, videos, or other media to be presented during public comment are accepted only by email to
clerk@cityofsanmateo.org at least 24 hours prior to the meeting. Once received, the Clerk will have them shared at public comment for the
specified item. To uphold strong cybersecurity management practices, USB’s or other physical electronic storage devices are not accepted.
Signs: Signs and symbolic materials less than 2 feet by 3 feet are permitted provided that: (1) sticks, posts, poles or similar/other type of handle
objects are strictly prohibited; (2) the items do not create a facility, fire, or safety hazard; and (3) persons with such items remain seated when
displaying them and must not raise the items above shoulder level, obstruct the view or passage of other attendees, or otherwise disturb the
business of the meeting.
ACCESSIBILITY:  In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and to ensure meaningful access for all participants, including those with
limited English proficiency, individuals requiring special accommodation or language assistance to participate in this meeting may contact the City
Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable
arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
SPANISH INTERPRETATION: If you need interpretation of your communications to the City Council from Spanish to English or English to Spanish,
please contact the City Clerk Department at (650) 522-7040 or by email at clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification of at least 48 hours will usually
enable the City to make arrangements.
INTERPRETACIÓN AL ESPAÑOL: Si necesita interpretación del inglés al español o del español al inglés para sus comunicaciones al Concejo de la
Ciudad, comuníquese con el Departmento del Secretario Municipal al (650) 522-7040 o por correo electrónico a clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Por
favor, avísenos con al menos 48 horas de anticipación para que la ciudad pueda hacer los arreglos necesarios.