--- page 1 ---
From:
Martin McTaggart
To:
Department Heads
Subject:
FW: Candidate Briefing – PowerPoint
Date:
Friday, August 21, 2026 1:05:00 PM
Attachments:
image003.png
image004.png
image005.png
image006.png
image007.png
image008.png
Good afternoon,
 
Sharing the below feedback from Lisa.
 
Thank you all for your time and efforts during last night’s candidate briefing. I greatly appreciate
everyone’s preparation and contribution, and, of course, for keeping to the five-slide limit!
 
I have included below the contact information for each of the candidates should you wish to follow
up or provide any additional information or reports following the presentations. Should you do this,
please ensure to include all candidates and list them in your email as Bcc’d.
 
Thank you again for helping make the briefing a success.
Taso Zografos: tasozografos@gmail.com;
Lisa Diaz Nash: lisa@lisaforsanmateo.com;
Rob Newsom: vote4robnewsom@gmail.com;
Seema Patel: seemaforsanmateo@gmail.com;
Adam Loraine: adam@adamloraine.com;
Dana Yates Sahae: danasahae@gmail.com;
Dave Johnson: district5dave@gmail.com
 
Best wishes,
Martin
 
From: Lisa Nash <lisa@lisaforsanmateo.com> 
Sent: Friday, August 21, 2026 12:48 PM
To: Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: Candidate Briefing – PowerPoint
 
Martin, many thanks for this.  Very useful presentation, even for someone who has some
experience with it:-). Thanks to you and your team for making sure relevant, robust materials
were shared and delivered succinctly.
Please also  thank everyone on the leadership team for sharing their time, talents and insights
with all of us.  We have an outstanding leadership team to tackle the difficult challenges and

--- page 2 ---
unlock the tremendous opportunities before San Mateo.
Best,
Lisa
 
On Fri, Aug 21, 2026 at 9:14 AM Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
Good morning, Candidates,
 
Thank you for joining us for last night’s Candidate Briefing. We hope you found the session
informative and helpful as you continue through the election process. For your reference, I have
attached the PowerPoint presentation from the briefing.
 
As mentioned at the conclusion of the meeting, City Manager Alex Khojikian will be reaching out to
each of you shortly to schedule an individual meeting. Please keep an eye out for that
correspondence.
 
If you have any questions regarding the information presented or the election process generally,
please don’t hesitate to reach out.
 
Thank you again for your time and participation.
 
Best wishes,
Martin
 
Martin McTaggart, CMC
City Clerk | City Clerk’s Department
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7042 | mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
 
 
 
 
 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any
attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It
may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the
intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this message
or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please
notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this
message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.
 
--

--- page 3 ---
Lisa Diaz Nash
Council Member, District 1, and Former Mayor
San Mateo City Council 
650.224.4498