--- page 1 ---
BACK PAGE
It’s time to turn off the
Flock Safety cameras
Steven Keener
Jun 7, 2026
Flock camera on Meadowbridge Road in Highland Park. Photos by Scott Elmquist
If you drive through Richmond today, you are likely being tracked. Your vehicle’s fingerprint
— its plate, make, model and even your unique bumper stickers and roof rack — is being
captured, digitized and stored.
This is the reality of the automated license plate reader (ALPR) network that is dominated by
Flock Safety, a private corporation that was valued at $7.5 billion as of March 2025. These

--- page 2 ---
“Flock cameras,” as they are often called, collect data that flows directly into Richmond’s
real-time crime center known as the Capital City Intelligence Center and Flock’s database.
Law enforcement says the network is especially helpful for solving certain crimes, including
auto theft, burglaries and kidnappings
Despite public outcry regarding the proliferation of ALPR cameras and the civil liberty risks
they pose, the Richmond City Council recently decided to continue funding this technology,
which disproportionately targets marginalized communities while operating with a startling
lack of transparency.
Flock camera on Meadowbridge Rd in Highland Park.
Documented abuses and vulnerabilities
The dangers of this technology are not hypothetical. Across the U.S., ALPR data has been
used by law enforcement officers to stalk ex-partners. Privacy advocate Benn Jordan has aptly
described these databases as “Netflix for stalkers.” Locally, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives (ATF) improperly accessed collected images from Flock cameras in
Richmond for an immigration investigation in March, and a Richmod police officer recently
shared Flock data with a federal agent.
Furthermore, the technology is fallible. In Aurora, Colorado, a family with young children
was held at gunpoint after officers incorrectly identified their car as a stolen vehicle. In one
instance, a woman was wrongly accused of a crime because an ALPR camera placed her
vehicle in the vicinity.

--- page 3 ---
The technology is also being weaponized politically. In Texas, law enforcement has already
used Flock’s surveillance data to investigate a report of an abortion attempt in another state
after Texas passed its abortion ban. In Richmond, the ALPR database was searched in
association with the No Kings protests in 2025, demonstrating how easily “public safety”
tools can pivot to monitoring political dissent.
Flock camera on Laburnum Avenue near the Richmond Raceway.
The security infrastructure surrounding ALPR data remains riddled with flaws. In June 2024,
a division of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security issued an advisory outlining seven
vulnerabilities in one brand of ALPRs, including missing encryption and insufficiently
protected credentials. “White hat” hackers have gained access to massive datasets and found
ways to live-broadcast camera feeds.
Surveillance inequality
One of the biggest concerns regarding ALPRs is how they both create and reinforce racially
biased policing. My colleagues, Drs. Jonny Finn and Andrew Baird, and I recently completed
a landmark geospatial analysis titled “Surveillance Inequality: Race, Poverty, and the
Geography of ALPR Deployment.” Our study of 614 cameras in the Hampton Roads area
found that race and class are the primary predictors of where these cameras are placed. (It is
worth noting that Hampton Roads officials did not release the locations of these ALPRs
willingly; they were forced to do so by a federal judge.) The ALPRs completely encircle
Norfolk State University, the region’s only public HBCU, for instance.

--- page 4 ---
In Richmond, geographer Tucker Keener and I conducted a similar analysis using
crowdsourced data, because the city refuses to release ALPR camera locations (citing the
potential for vandalism). The results suggest a pattern similar to that of the one in Hampton
Roads. Of the 12 most surveilled census tracts in Richmond, 11 are majority non-white; eight
are majority-Black (ranging from 61% to 92% Black); one is majority-Hispanic (60%
Hispanic, 30% Black); and one is racially mixed (49% white, 34% Black, 11% Hispanic).
This creates an inevitable and racially skewed feedback loop: police surveil these areas more
intensely, generating more data points for low-level infractions, which are then used to justify
the initial surveillance. It is a tech-washed version of the same bias-based policing patterns we
have fought for decades. This feedback loop ensures that the burdens of surveillance —
unnecessary stops, police interactions and data leaks — fall disproportionately on those
already marginalized.
Flock camera on Gaskins Road near the I-64 interchange. A sign has been placed underneath the camera, calling attention to the presence of the flock
camera.
Profiteering and transparency
Flock Safety’s CEO claims the technology can eliminate crime, a statement that is
criminologically groundless. These cameras do not prevent crime; they react to it, and they do
so by capturing the data of innocent Richmonders to build a profitable, national database. We
must ask: Why is a private corporation allowed to profit from the movement patterns of law-
abiding citizens?
While Richmond officials claim numerous cases have been solved via ALPRs, they refuse to
provide the raw data for independent verification. We do not know the false positive rate, nor

--- page 5 ---
do we know the cost-per-image of surveilling innocent residents.
As a researcher, I find this lack of transparency incredibly frustrating. Without real
transparency, the public is forced to rely on a narrative crafted by police leadership, city
officials and the corporation profiting from the contract.
A sign pointing out the flock camera on Gaskins Road.
The myth of legal guardrails
Proponents of ALPR cameras often cite House Bill 2724, which became law on July 1, 2025,
as providing sufficient guardrails. The law restricts data usage to active criminal
investigations, limits retention to 21 days and prohibits out-of-state sharing. However, a
recent Virginia State Crime Commission report revealed a systemic lack of compliance: 13%
of agencies admitted to giving out-of-state entities continuous access to ALPR data; 6% have
granted the federal government continuous access; 35% failed to implement required public
awareness measures; and 110 departments didn’t even complete the survey.
The police are essentially policing themselves — and they aren’t doing a great job. It’s also
important to remember that the federal government is not constrained by HB2724, and the
law cannot prevent other states, private companies or the federal government from accessing
Richmonder’s data through subpoenas or search warrants, including those issued to Flock
Safety’s headquarters in Georgia.

--- page 6 ---
The legal criteria for using these cameras are also dangerously broad. Law enforcement can
use ALPR photos for any investigation involving reasonable suspicion. This can range from
homicide to littering or jaywalking, and certain exemptions allow data to be stored
indefinitely. Additionally, individuals can be placed on “hotlists” for anything from serious
crimes to unpaid court fees, triggering alerts every time they pass a camera. The law also does
not restrict AI from being used to create algorithms to surveil specific groups of people.
Flyers near Highland Park calling for the removal of flock cameras.
The right to be left alone
The Fourth Amendment protects us against unreasonable searches and seizures. While courts
have been slow to catch up to the scale and capabilities of modern dragnet surveillance, the
moral question remains: Should the government be able to track you when you have done
nothing wrong?
Our city leaders should not fund a system that targets Black and brown residents, bypasses
state safeguards and enriches a private corporation at the expense of our Fourth Amendment
rights. In May, Mayor Avula announced the Richmond Police Department would no longer
allow federal agencies to access the city’s ALPR data and that the city would prohibit data
sharing with any Virginia jurisdiction that has entered into a 287(g) agreement with ICE. But
cities like Staunton and Charlottesville have cancelled their Flock contracts altogether after
recognizing the risks.
Richmond should follow their lead. It is time to turn the cameras off for good. It is never too
late to do the right thing.

--- page 7 ---
Interested in writing for Back Page? Check out our submission guidelines here.