source: packet.pdf
sha256: 89d4b1bfdced7435f4f77b16eb2bbe6cd5de983809c2255e5c9f368139fc8814
pages: 52
ocr_pages: 21
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
February 22, 2025
9:00 AM
College of San Mateo
1700 West Hillsdale Blvd.
College Heights Conference
Room
Building 10, Room 468
(Click Here for Facility Map)
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Robert Newsom Jr.
Adam Loraine
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD AS AN IN-PERSON WORKSHOP. PUBLIC ATTENDANCE IS AVAILABLE IN-PERSON ONLY. PUBLIC
COMMENTS MAY BE SUBMITTED IN PERSON OR IN WRITING. FOR SUBMITTING PUBLIC COMMENT SEE FURTHER DETAILS BELOW
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Consideration for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
PUBLIC COMMENT
This is the opportunity for the public comment on the Council’s Stragetic Plan and Objectives for fiscal year 2025-26 before the
Council proceeds with its working session. Public comment will be limited to a total of 30 minutes. 
 
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of this item.
1.
City Council "Blue Sky" Goal Setting Workshop
Review the current City Council Priority List for fiscal year 2024-2025 and identify new City Council priorities for
consideration for fiscal year 2025-2026.
CEQA: This workshop is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until noon on Friday, February 21, 2025.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
1 of 52

--- page 2 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-9634
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
February 22, 2025 
SUBJECT:
City Council "Blue Sky" Goal Setting Workshop
RECOMMENDATION:
Review the current City Council Priority List for fiscal year 2024-2025 and identify new City Council priorities for 
consideration for fiscal year 2025-2026. 
BACKGROUND:
The City Council goal setting process includes a three-step deliberation process resulting in the adoption of a Priority List 
that represents the City Council’s priorities. The City Council Blue Sky workshop scheduled for February 22, 2025 is the first 
step in the goal setting process. At this meeting, City Council will review the status of the current Priority List and identify 
new priorities for consideration for the upcoming fiscal year. The meeting will include a 30-minute public comment period 
at the start of the meeting, followed by a facilitated discussion amongst the Council to review the current and proposed 
Priority Lists. 
Attachment 1 includes the existing priorities, which are divided into categories based on their estimated time frame for 
completion: 1 Fiscal Year; 2-5 Years; and more than 5 Years. There is also an estimated resource intensity for each item. 
The resource intensity categories (low, medium, and high) include a combined assessment of both staff time and financial 
resources required to complete the item. The status of each of the priorities as reported in November 2024 is indicated as 
well as the current status of the priority. Also included is a staff recommendation whether to retain or remove each 
priority. Priorities recommended for retention include those on which staff has yet to commence work or which are in 
progress and remain a priority for the City. Priorities recommended for removal are those which are either complete or 
will be complete by the end of the fiscal year. Also proposed for removal are priorities which are embedded in staff’s work 
and will take place regardless of whether the City Council tracks them on its priority list or not. 
Following the review of the items on the existing priority list, Council will review and engage in a facilitated discussion 
about the list of potential new priorities submitted by each Councilmember (Attachment 2). Each Councilmember 
submitted three proposed priorities for consideration. Staff has provided a table that includes key departments involved in 
executing the priority, an early estimate of resource needs, and an indication of whether the proposed priority would  
build upon or refine an existing Council priority. As part of the consideration process for new priorities to include on the 
list, staff has also included Attachment 3, which provides a high-level overview of major Citywide initiatives currently 
underway. These items are on internal departmental work plans and not reflected in the Council Priorities, but absorb a 
great deal of City resources, including financial and staffing resources. This information is intended to help the Council 
weigh its priorities in consideration of the significant work plan items currently underway. 
The next step in the goal setting process, scheduled for March 17, 2025, will be a second study session where staff will 
2 of 52

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
share the proposed new priority list with proposed work plans, a refined estimate of resources required, and seek Council 
feedback on the wording of the proposed priorities and work plans. The City Council will receive public comment on this 
draft list at the meeting and direct staff to make any edits. The final step in the process, which will occur at an April 2025 
City Council meeting, will be a consent calendar item where City Council will approve the priority list for the 2025-2026 
fiscal year. Staff will then present a progress report of the priorities in the fall of 2025. 
Also included in this agenda packet are two attachments, Attachments 4 and 5, from Deputy Mayor Lorraine. Deputy 
Mayor Lorraine also wished to share the information contained in the following webpage: 
https://sustainablesanmateo.org/2024/12/17/charge-forward/ to provide information about his proposed priorities.  
Attachment 6 contains public comments received as of the drafting of this report. Additional comments will be added up 
until noon on February 21, 2025. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this agenda item. The resources required for the final list of priorities identified by the City 
Council will be taken into consideration as part of the development of the fiscal year 2025 - 2026 budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This workshop is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result 
in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Existing City Council Priorities Status 
Att 2 - Proposed Priorities FY 25-26
Att 3 - 2025 Staff Work Plan Items Not on City Council Priority List 
Att 4 - Empower San Mateo File from Deputy Mayor Lorraine
Att 5 – Equitable Paths to EV Charging File from Deputy Mayor Lorraine
Att 6 – Public Comments as of February 12, 2025 
STAFF CONTACT
Christina Horrisberger, Assistant City Manager
chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7210
3 of 52

--- page 4 ---
4 of 52

--- page 5 ---
5 of 52

--- page 6 ---
6 of 52

--- page 7 ---
7 of 52

--- page 8 ---
8 of 52

--- page 9 ---
9 of 52

--- page 10 ---
10 of 52

--- page 11 ---
PROPOSED FISCAL YEAR 2025-2026 CITY COUNCIL PRIORITIES
Primary 
Department(s)
Support 
Department(s)
Resource Intensity
Similar Initiative 
Underway
MAYOR NEWSOM
1
Housing, explore how we can help 2-story small to medium apartment owners redevelop their 
properties to make more units
CDD
CAO; CMO
Low - explore
Yes – This is part 
of City Council 
Priority 19: 
“Implement 
Housing Element 
Policies”
2
Explore and evaluate the replacement of Fire Station 27
CMO
CAO/Finance
Low – 
explore/evaluate
Yes – This is part 
of staff’s work plan 
to map and assess 
City assets 
3
Explore limiting overnight RV Parking in commercial corridors
CDD; CMO; PD
CAO
Low - explore
No
DEPUTY MAYOR LORRAINE
1
Explore how the City of San Mateo could partner with the San Mateo Union High School District, 
San Mateo-Foster City School District and other public, private and nonprofit organizations to 
support "Empower San Mateo," a community collaborative model aiming to help 1000 equity 
priority San Mateo students graduate and thrive. Possibilities include: evaluating how our city's 
assets (e.g. parks and recreation centers, libraries and more) could be further activated to 
support these and other San Mateo students; considering expansion/piloting of programming that 
could help such students find internships and local work experience, including within the City 
itself.
*Some information on Empower San Mateo attached.
PD; Parks
CMO; CAO
Medium - explore
No
2
Commission a citywide feasibility study for groups of San Mateo businesses interested in forming 
business improvement districts (BIDs). This could include existing smaller districts outside of 
downtown, such as 25th Avenue and Crystal Springs Shopping Center, but it could also include 
new groupings such as sections of El Camino Real. Downtown could also be included, if 
businesses there wished to pursue a property-based BID or something else that could 
complement the existing Downtown San Mateo Association. 
CMO
CAO; CDD
Medium/High
Yes - This would 
build on City 
Council priority 15: 
“Explore the 
establishment of 
Property-Based 
Improvement 
Districts.”
3
Explore how the City of San Mateo could partner with Sustainable San Mateo and Peninsula 
Clean Energy in "Charge Forward San Mateo," a countywide effort to ensure that residents have 
equitable access to electric vehicle (EV) charging infrastructure (and reduce the county's 
greenhouse gas emissions from transportation, currently 49% of the region's emissions). 
Possibilities include: installing streetlight chargers near apartments and multifamily units; 
collaborating with Peninsula Clean Energy to identify apartment and multifamily contacts and 
offer financial and technical support for installing EV chargers; incentivize private employers to 
CMO; PW
CDD; CAO
Low - explore
No
11 of 52

--- page 12 ---
expand employee and customer EV charging. *Some information on Charge Forward San Mateo 
attached and linked.
COUNCILMEMBER DIAZ NASH
1
Establish Senior Hubs at MLK and Beresford Senior Centers
•
Senior Hubs: Expand our current senior programming offerings to better meet the needs 
of our senior community members. By increasing the variety and frequency of events 
tailored specifically to seniors, we aim to provide more opportunities for engagement, 
socialization, and overall well-being. Additionally, investigate partnering with other 
organizations to provide coffee/tea or light refreshments that will enhance the overall 
experience but also encourage more participation by creating a welcoming and 
comfortable atmosphere.
Parks
CMO
Medium
No
2
Develop and implement an ordinance to prohibit the use of gas leaf blowers within the City of San 
Mateo.
CMO
CAO; CDD; Parks
Medium
No
3
Complete Speed Surveys
•
Complete necessary analyses and adoption of ordinances as required by the California 
Vehicle Code to ensure speed limits on the City’s roadways are enforceable. Perhaps, on 
roadways where the analysis recommends an increased posted speed limit, first identify 
ways to try to slow traffic on that roadway.
PW
CMO; CAO
Medium/High
No
COUNCILMEMBER CWIRKO-GODYCKI
1
Electric pump station for lagoon.
•
Recommend exploring options for providing additional pumping capacity at the Marina 
Lagoon Pump Station to allow safely pumping the lagoon lower than 95’ and increasing 
overall resiliency for climate change and more intense storm events.
PW
CAO; CMO
High
Yes – Refines/tiers 
off of City Council 
Priority 5: “Expedite 
efforts to improve 
the stormwater 
collection, 
drainage, and 
storage system, 
including dredging 
the Marina lagoon.”
2
Starting Sea level rise levy project plan w/t Burlingame & Foster City, so once vulnerability study 
is complete in 2 years - we are shovel ready. 
•
Develop a Climate Adaptation Plan to establish a comprehensive strategy for resiliency 
and adaptation against sea level rise and flooding.
CMO;PW
Citywide
High
Yes – Climate 
Adaptation Plan 
Grant funding for 
sea-level rise 
adaptation planning 
procured and work 
is set to start; other 
impacts of climate 
12 of 52

--- page 13 ---
changes are not 
included in 
funding/planning
3
Youth Service Officers at Schools – funding program.
•
City to work with the school districts over the next year to have the school districts help 
fund an additional school resource officer.
PD
CMO; CAO
Medium
No
COUNCILMEMBER FERNANDEZ
1
Code of conduct with measurable consequences akin to the San Mateo County Board of 
Supervisors language with enforcement
City Clerk; 
CAO; CMO
NA
Low
Yes – Some of this 
work was started in 
2024 
2
Policy on regulating food trucks/in-home restaurants
CDD; PW
CAO; CMO; PD
Medium
No
3
Explore and evaluate allowing a retail cannabis storefront in downtown
CMO
CAO; CDD; PD
Low  -explore
Yes – Previous 
Study Session on 
broader topic was 
held previously and 
can be refined and 
updated
13 of 52

--- page 14 ---
2025 MAJOR STAFF WORK PLAN ITEMS NOT ON CITY COUNCIL PRIORTY LIST
•
Improve Environment for Neurodiverse Individuals (focus on autism/Asperger's) (Library)
•
Improve Children’s Patio with Shade and Seating (Library)
•
Create Cost-Effective Services and Spaces Accessibility Enhancements for Neurodiverse 
Individuals (Library)
•
Continued Phase II Workday/ERP Implementation (IT/HR/Finance)
•
Phone System Replacement (IT)
•
PC replacements (IT)
•
Energov Permit System Migration (IT/CDD/PW)
•
Video Security (IT) 
•
Revisit General Fund Reserve Policy (Finance)
•
Fiscal Sustainability Plan/Potential 2026 Ballot Measure (Finance/CMO)
•
2025 Boards and Commissions Demography Study (City Clerks)
•
Youth Commissioner Recruitment (City Clerks)
•
Council Chambers AV Modernization (City Clerks/IT/PW)
•
Generation Voter Youth Engagement Initiatives (City Clerks)
•
Records Management Enhancement (IT/City Clerks)
•
Osaka Expo Support (City Clerks/Parks & Rec)
•
Development Review Process Evaluation and Implementation (CDD/PW/CMO)
•
User Fee Study (CDD/PW/Parks/Finance)
•
Historic Resources Code/Policy Update (CDD/CAO)
•
Downtown Area Plan Update (CDD/CMO)
•
Triennial Building Code Adoption Cycle (CDD)
•
Creek Maintenance Permit (multi-year effort) (PW)
•
Storm/Stormwater Relater Planning, Maintenance and Improvements (PW)
•
Community Outreach Strategy (PW/CMO)
•
Transportation Division Enhancements (PW/CDD)
•
CIP Organizational Assessment (CDD)
•
Small Cell Sites (PW)
•
Re-engineer Employee Recruitment/Selection Process (HR/All Departments)
•
Develop Recruitment Plans to Reduce 5% Vacancy Rate (HR)
•
Recruitment Marketing Materials and Webpage Updates (HR/CMO)
•
Employee Recognition and Rewards Program (HR)
•
Citywide Strategic Plan (CMO)
•
San Mateo “Conversations” (CMO)
•
Economic Development Plan (CMO)
•
Sea Level Rise Adaptation Plan (CMO/PW/CDD)
•
City Executive/Leadership Engagement (CMO)
•
Special Events Permit Policy Update (CMO/Parks/PW/CDD)
•
Revv Up San Mateo (CMO)
•
Business Watch Program (PD)
•
Real Time Information Center (PD)
•
Organized Retail Theft Grant (PD)
•
Citywide Security Project (PD)
14 of 52

--- page 15 ---
•
King and Joinville Aquatic facility repairs and possible rental of SMHS pool (Parks)
•
East Hillsdale Park Improvements (Parks)
•
Golf Course Par3 repairs (Parks)
•
Shoreview Skate Park Improvements (Parks)
•
Beresford Pickleball Pilot Program (Parks)
15 of 52

--- page 16 ---
W HIGHS

SA 0,
7 g %
I Sane uy enone Donen Asotin *
/ J J _<Ld — | —d -— A Sj 7 — = _ al . f J i= ed] es <M

A 5 Year Proposal to Achieve Equity for All of Our Students

SANMATEO COUNTY COUNTY oF
las © COMMUNITY SAN MATEO
\ / a COLLEGE DISTRICT

District 2

EQUITY

16 of 52


--- page 17 ---
Who Are Our HHS ~ 200 ETA Students?

Native Hawaiian/Pacific

Islander
7% j eo e e
Black/African American se * 30% on-track to be first generation high
0
aa% | school graduates

_ * 67% could be first generation college
Hillsdale graduates

High School
Students

* ~40 students are in our Multilingual Learner
Program

Hispanic/Latino
Over 1000 SM High School Students Live with the Daily Stresses and
Burdens of Poverty & Are At Risk for Poor Outcomes.
“Empower San Mateo” could enable the most marginalized students at all
of our high schools to reach the district’s goal: every student graduates
and every student thrives. — @) tscnoos . scmes -rosmcr_ 2

17 of 52


--- page 18 ---
The Opportunity: Every Student Graduates, Every
Student Thrives

Expand the Hillsdale Empowerment Through Action program into an
“Empower San Mateo” Public-Private partnership and provide
wrap-around support for our most marginalized 6-12th grade

students in San Mateo and Foster City.
i ARAGON a

Leverage & learn from the experience of the Redwood City
Together Public-Private partnership & replicate their
funding model. We want to partner with our neighboring
schools to make this opportunity a reality

18 of 52


--- page 19 ---
Why now?

EMPOWERMENT

iI THROUGH
HEARNE

ACTON

ETA at Hillsdale High School has demonstrated success over the 6 years
since initiation. It’s a program that can be readily adopted by adjacent

schools.

Empower San Mateo has the potential for
broad based support from:

San Mateo City Manager

City of San Mateo

County of San Mateo-District Two

SAMICEDA

San Mateo Police Chief

San Mateo Police Activities League
IBEW 617 and other Trades in SMC
Large Scale Foundations

Local Corporations and Businesses

@ 10 SCHOOLS « 6CITIES « 1 DISTRICT

Having a San Mateo and Foster City-wide
wrap around support program will
facilitate fund raising among the local
corporations, developers and philanthropic
organizations. All have:

e repeatedly indicated a preference
to donate to the entire community
rather than a single school.

e asked whether the plan is to
expand the program to the other
high schools in San Mateo.

19 of 52


--- page 20 ---
Wrap-Around Support Improves Outcomes for At-risk Students: 2 Enrowener

The Empowerment Through Action Pilot Program @ HHS is Successful an

The what...
The mission of the Empowerment Through Action (ETA), launched in 2018, is to close

a’ the opportunity gap and foster belonging for ~200 of our historically underserved
students.

The how...

The innovative and holistic approach consists of a series of empowering actions focused on four
key pillars.

Four key pillars: after school tutoring, weekly mentoring, enrichment activities, bridge
support into/out of high school, and job/internship placement. Wrap-around support also
includes a Community Garden, Peace Pantry Food Bank and Community Closet.

The result...
e In 2024, 94% of ETA participants graduated compared to 79% for socioeconomically
—n similar peers across the district within our school district and suspension rates have

962 . fallen by 50%.

Over 75% of students reported they “felt more confident” and 78% reported they
“learned positive ways to respond to stress”.
e Hillsdale transferred only 1.5% of students to PHS from 2018-2024

20 of 52


--- page 21 ---
ms o.
te) (s) SY & pa
; ; Enriching activities nee
Tutoring & mentoring Entrepreneurship Peace Pantry Food Bank
Dedicated afterschool workspace %

ain
EMPOWERMENT \, Sil

I)
eNEA)
Va NOY

e@ @
e F 2
YNwn PA a Resume/interview FP
£ 0 Peer to peer mentoring 'HROUGH preparation Community Garden
©
‘Se =
bd .2 | ° i
= nem} ACO
a. rg HILL DALE Tl N

Middle school<>HHS<> college

a: ntern/j
transition support Intern/job

placement

Increase in graduation rates Increase in self confidence/inner capital Decreaseinsuspensions Decrease in expulsions Increased

enrollment in

CFAD a 4 ‘ community & 4
o00 ] year colleges

IRDA!

Resilient mental health Social & emotional growth Increased sense of belonging student & family

Intended Outcomes

Relational trust with

21 of 52


--- page 22 ---
1 =a —

SAN MATEO

—

EMPOWER

nn

What is the potential for Empower San Mateo?
How do we implement Empower San Mateo?

22 of 52


--- page 23 ---
PROPOSED EMPOWER SAN MATEO
ORGANIZATION CHART

ETA Board of
Directors

Executive
Director

Bridge to Bridge Bridge to Bridge Bridge to Bridge
Coordinator Coordinator Coordinator
| | |
Bowditch Middle Borel Middle Abbott Middle Bayside Middle
School Program —— School Program -————————— School Program -__———_—— School Program
Director Director Director Director

Key
ETA Nonprofit Funded Middle School
Through Partnership District Funded

23 of 52


--- page 24 ---
Tutors (Adult
and Student)

PROPOSED EMPOWER SAN MATEO
ORGANIZATION CHART
HIGH SCHOOL LEVEL(ARAGON, HILLSDALE, SAN MATEO)

ETA Board of
Directors

|
Executive
Director

Bridge to Bridge
Coordinator
|
Peace Pantry Enrichment
Coordinator Leaders
|
Community Closet
Coordinator Middle School Community
| Program Director College
Community Garden Coordinator
Coordinator

Group Leaders

Key

ETA Nonprofit Funded Middle Schol

Through Public/Private

Partnerenipe District Funded

24 of 52


--- page 25 ---
25 of 52

--- page 26 ---
26 of 52

--- page 27 ---
Achieving Equity for All Students Through a Public/Private Partnership

So fiat

64

Increased sense of belonging Social & emotional growth

Increase in self confidence
and inner capital

27 of 52


--- page 28 ---
What can Empowerment look like on the

28 of 52


--- page 29 ---
Will you partner with us to empower success and
OPPORTUNITY: transform the future of ALL historically marginalized

students in San Mateo and Foster City?

e Partner with us to develop a San Mateo
& Foster City-wide comprehensive Tier
iz 2.5 program at our schools

Pa in ARAGON e Partner with us in our work to create a
fas HIGH SCHOOL HIGH SCHOOL a _
£ Poe tensions public/private partnership “Empower

San Mateo” to guarantee funding
e Support the development ofalanda5
HILISDALE year Road Map and initiate execution

W

ABBOTT

MIDDLE SCHOOL

We all win when we partner together.

29 of 52


--- page 30 ---
Sustainable
San Mateo County

Economy. Equity. Environment.

&

2024

INDICATORS

REPORT

EQUITABLE

PATHS TO
EV CHARGING

Ensuring equitable access to EV charging is
essential for creating a sustainable and
inclusive future in San Mateo County. As
electric vehicle adoption grows, many
residents, particularly renters and those in
multifamily housing, face significant barriers
to charging at home.

Sustainable San Mateo County’s 2024
Indicators Report, “Equitable Paths to EV
Charging,” provides an overview of the
county's EV charging landscape, focusing on
key indicators and insights from local
governments. It also offers recommendations
to help provide the infrastructure necessary
to encourage more residents to purchase EVs.

The guiding principle throughout this
report is the belief that access to EV
charging should not be determined by
housing type, income or location. By
adhering to California’s Right-to-Charge
policy and embracing community-driven
solutions, San Mateo County can build a
network that is robust and accessible to
everyone.

With targeted investments, collaborative
efforts and forward-thinking policies, the
county can support its environmental and
transportation goals while ensuring no
community is left behind.

30 of 52


--- page 31 ---
Annual Sales of ZEVs in San Mateo County
Annual Sales = % of Total Sales San Mateo County has made
20,000 30% significant progress in electrifying
sa 24% its light-duty vehicle population,
with over 57,000 ZEVs (zero-
emission vehicles) on the road in
2023, representing 10% of all
registered vehicles. Of these, 80%
were battery EVs.

15,000
20%

10,000

10%

Number of ZEVs

5,000

Percentage of Total Sales

San Mateo County saw a steady

increase in ZEV sales between

a 2020 and 2023, with nearly a
quarter of all new vehicle sales

being ZEVs. This trend continues with more than 6,200 battery electric vehicles sold during the

first half of 2024.

0

2020 2021 2022 2023
Source: California Energy Commission.

Ratio of EVs to Charging Stations ee
Determining whether the U.S has enough Brisbane
public chargers is complex and depends Burlingame
on factors like the availability of fast Colma
chargers, urban density, the proportion of Daly City
residents without home charging access East Palo Alto
and workplace charging options. Limited Foster City

data on at-home and workplace charging
usage further complicates the assessment.

As EV adoption grows, the ratio of EVs to

Half Moon Bay
Hillsborough
Menlo Park
Millbrae

public charging stations (as shown in Pacifica 295
graph at right) can offer some insight into Portola Valley

infrastructure adequacy. EV drivers in cities Redwood City

with high ratios (more cars per charger) San Bruno

may face longer waits and increased San Carlos

competition for public charging stations. San Mateo

EV drivers in urban areas with higher South San Francisco

densities and higher share of multifamily Woodside

buildings would benefit from lower ratios. 0 400 200 300

Source: Department of Energy and U.S. Census Bureau.

Mapping Public EV Charging Gaps

To identify gaps between the demand for and supply of public EV charging stations, the
percentage of renter-occupied and multifamily housing units is compared to the availability of
public chargers. The city of San Mateo, which has the highest percentage of multifamily housing
in the county (48%), serves as an example. The map comparison reveals areas with a high

density of residents who rely on public infrastructure but have limited access to it. (continued)
31 of 52


--- page 32 ---
(continued) This discrepancy highlights the need for more equitable distribution of
charging stations to support EV adoption in these high-density neighborhoods.

Percent of Multifamily Housing Percent of Rented Housing Public EV Chargers

Percent

90
Bu
70

60
-50
40
30
20
10

SA ae

N |

High-density neighborhoods i in the City of San Mateo and number of public chargers available. Sources: SSMC
Sustainability Dashboard, data from U.S. Census Bureau.

Key Obstacles Faced by Jurisdictions in Expanding Public EV Charging

When considering the a0

expansion of public EV 8
charging stations,

representatives from the » §
county and 18 cities said g °
that funding, grid-related 2
challenges and space 5 2 Ii.
limitations were the main 3 i = - a
hall that th s 0
Cc a enges that they are 2 ae Poo Oo at
facing. roe "8 ot
¢ Ya yet
Source: SSMC survey, Sept. 2024 res)

Grid Capacity to Support EV Charger
Installation in San Mateo County

To help local jurisdictions identify regions of the grid
suitable for installing EV chargers or in need of capacity
upgrade, the CEC released EDGE, an online EV supply
equipment deployment and grid evaluation tool. The map
shows the grid capacity in San Mateo County. The areas in
darkest shades of blue represent parts of the county that
exceed capacity. These include Colma, most of East Palo
Alto, San Bruno, parts of Brisbane, Menlo Park (Belle
Haven, Menlo Oaks), South San Francisco and some
unincorporated areas.

Sustainable
San Mateo County
Source: California Energy Commission Economy. Equity. Environment.
32 of 52



--- page 33 ---
Key Recommendations

San Mateo County: Empower residents with
accessible information with a multi-language
webpage, webinars and hands-on workshops
about EV charging options, including costs,
choosing and installing EV chargers, reputable
installers, incentives and rebates.

Cities: Prioritize public EV chargers in key
community spaces, soliciting feedback and
identifying high concentrations of multifamily
units and renters.

Cities: Band together to purchase EV chargers
through pooled procurements.

Cities: Consider installing streetlight chargers
near apartments and multifamily units.

Cities: Collaborate with Peninsula Clean Energy
to identify apartment and multifamily building
contacts and offer financial and technical
support for installing EV chargers.

Cities: Incentivize private employers to expand
employee and customer EV charging.

Cities: Form partnerships with private and
public parking lots with EV chargers to allow
nearby residents to charge their cars during
hours when the lots are not being used.

San Mateo County and cities: Collaborate to
identify public and private lands that might be
made available to third-party EV charging
network operators through long-term leases.
State legislators: Promote equitable charging
rates that offer residents of multifamily housing
and CARE and FERA recipients access to local
public DC fast chargers at lower-cost, off-peak
residential utility EV rates.

State legislators: Support legislation
encouraging vehicle-to-everything charging
that allows EVs to feed electricity back into the
grid or other systems and also provides power
to homes during power outages.

THANKS TO OUR
PROGRAM
SPONSORS

CHAMPION

International Brotherhood
of Electrical Workers (IBEW)
Local Union 617

LEADER

PENINSULA
CLEAN ENERGY

PARTNERS
we SAMCEDA

3 San Mateo County Economic Development Association

samirans
(ll

Visit bit.ly/SSMCDonate
and Support Our Work

Downloadthe [3
Full Report at bit.ly/ #54
IndicatorsReport2024 fA

4 ft
oF a er

www-.sustainablesanmateo.org


--- page 34 ---
34 of 52

--- page 35 ---
Otsuka Family

35 of 52


--- page 36 ---
36 of 52

--- page 37 ---
37 of 52

--- page 38 ---
38 of 52

--- page 39 ---
39 of 52

--- page 40 ---
40 of 52


--- page 41 ---
41 of 52

--- page 42 ---
42 of 52

--- page 43 ---
City of San Mateo
City Council Meeting

POST PACKET

PUBLIC COMMENT


--- page 44 ---
44 of 52

--- page 45 ---
45 of 52

--- page 46 ---
46 of 52

--- page 47 ---
To: €

Subject: Gas gardening tools
Date: Thursday, February 20, 2025 11:31:01 AM

Hello,
I am a homeowner in San Mateo. I cannot attend the meeting this Saturday but would like to

add my name to the list of people who would like to impose a band on gas powered blowers,
leaf trimmers And string trimmers.
Thank you!

Mary Hargrove

47 of 52


--- page 48 ---
48 of 52

--- page 49 ---
49 of 52

--- page 50 ---
50 of 52

--- page 51 ---
51 of 52

--- page 52 ---
From: Cassie Zhu

To: City Council (San Mateo)

Subject: Blue Sky: Dog Park

Date: Monday, February 17, 2025 9:10:23 PM
Attachments: IMG _6303.HEIC

Hello

My name is Cassie Zhu and I live near Central Park in San Mateo. Please add making a
permanent dog park to the main plans of Central Park to your agenda for this next year. It is
necessary that Central Park has a permanent place for dogs and a well kept dog park. My dog
Musubi needs the space as do many others. I also ask that in the interim you extend the
baseball field hours to make it more usable and beneficial.

Please add the dog park to the Blue Sky meeting and make this a priority for the majority of
the residents who live near Central Park.

IMG_6303.HEIC

-3]

Thank you,

Cassie & Musubi

52 of 52
