Truckee CA PD
Transparency Portal

Last Updated: Fri Apr 24 2026

Overview

The Truckee Police Department uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. The Truckee Police Department utilizes retroactive searches to solve crimes after they've occurred and also utilizes real-time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals, locate missing persons, and to help detect and recover stolen vehicles. This technology is also an essential tool for providing roadway usage data to directly support the departments efforts in emergency and disaster planning for their community. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, this department has made all governing policies and usage statistics available to the public they serve.

Policies

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement and emergency management purposes only. Data is owned by the Truckee Police Department and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, automated traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely for auditing purposes.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
Usage

Data retention (in days)

30 days

Number of LPR and other cameras

25

Organizations granted access to Truckee CA PD data

California Highway Patrol, Grass Valley CA PD, Nevada City CA PD, Nevada County CA SO, Placer County CA SO

Hotlists Alerted On

California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

180,002

Hotlist hits in the last 30 days

881

Searches in the last 30 days

27
Additional Info

ALPR Policy

https://www.truckeepolice.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/RELEASE_20230525_Truckee-PD-Policy-Manual.pdf

Provided by Flock Safety