Transparency Portal
Visit Flock
Truckee CA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Mon Jul 20 2026

OVERVIEW

The Truckee Police Department uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. The Truckee Police Department utilizes retroactive searches to solve crimes after they've occurred and also utilizes real-time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals, locate missing and at-risk persons, and to help detect and recover stolen vehicles. This technology is also an essential tool for providing roadway usage data to directly support the departments efforts in emergency and disaster planning for their community. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, this department has made all governing policies and usage statistics available to the public they serve.

POLICIES

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement and emergency management purposes only. Data is owned by the Truckee Police Department and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration and anti-reproductive rights enforcement, automated traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), any personal use not related to a legitimate public safety purpose.

Access Policy

All system users require mandatory training and policy review before credentials are granted. All system access requires a valid public safety reason and searches are stored indefinitely for auditing purposes. Routine audits of system use are conducted in accordance with department ALPR policy.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist "hits" or alerts are generated from integrations with databases like the FBI's National Crime Information Center (NCIC). These systems track stolen vehicles, cars connected to Amber/Silver alerts, and vehicles associated with wanted criminals or active felony investigations. All Hotlist "hits" or alerts are required to be human verified prior to action.
USAGE

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

25

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Truckee CA PD data.

California Highway Patrol
Grass Valley CA PD
Nevada City CA PD
Nevada County CA SO
Placer County CA SO

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

1,342
ADDITIONAL INFO

ALPR Policy

https://www.truckeepolice.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/RELEASE_20230525_Truckee-PD-Policy-Manual.pdf

Provided by Flock Safety