source: packet.pdf
sha256: 5d396075823e4a12ae5f5162c20a85c6c8edc7d8e1e55f11d88b3f849feca251
pages: 37
ocr_pages: 1
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting
November 15, 2021
6:00 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNMENT CODE 54943(b)(3) / AB361 (2021) –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: November 15, 2021 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 828 2893 1241
Passcode: 631987
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
1.
Auto Repair Establishments – Zoning and Parking Regulations
Provide direction to staff on how to proceed with modifications to zoning regulations for auto repair
establishments.
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the consideration of these items. Following the meeting a report of action
from Closed Session will be provided if required.
2.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation, Workers’ Compensation
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9
Name of cases: Trevor Kelly, James Henley
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's website
at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
continue on next page
1 of 37

--- page 2 ---
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this meeting may
contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable
arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 37

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 21-5055
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
November 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Auto Repair Establishments – Zoning and Parking Regulations
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide direction to staff on how to proceed with modifications to zoning regulations for auto repair establishments.
BACKGROUND:
Consideration of Zoning Code amendments for auto repair establishments began in 2012 after community concerns were 
raised about the impacts of auto repair establishments on residential neighborhoods, particularly along S. Claremont 
Street and Railroad Avenue. The City Council last discussed the zoning regulations for auto repair establishments at its 
regular meeting of June 4, 2018. At this meeting, Council directed staff to return with proposed amendments to 
regulations on parking ratios and continue requiring a Special Use Permit (SUP) for outdoor business activity. Recognizing 
that these businesses are vital to the community, the Council also encouraged staff to explore a parking ratio that results 
in increased compliance to prevent forcing existing auto repair establishments out of business. 
Following the June 4, 2018 City Council meeting, staff prepared an initial draft of potential amendments to specific 
sections of the municipal code, none of which were brought forward to the City Council for adoption due to staffing 
shortages and shifting priorities. In February of 2020, staff engaged Urban Planning Partners, Inc. (UPP) as a consultant to 
resume staff’s effort and use staff’s prior work as a starting point. 
UPP began its analysis by conducting field surveys between February 28, 2020 and March 6, 2020 to examine existing 
conditions given the amount of time that had passed. Before conducting site visits, UPP sent letters to approximately 160 
auto repair establishments throughout the City to provide advanced notice and to indicate the intent to re-initiate this 
effort. Findings and observations are summarized in a memo by UPP, included as Attachment 1. A more detailed 
discussion of their findings is also included as an attachment to UPP’s summary memo.
A key finding based on UPP’s field survey is that less than 20 percent of auto repair establishments observed conform with 
current zoning requirements for on-site parking. The memo also notes that UPP did not observe any major sidewalk 
obstructions or businesses’ performing work in the right-of-way, which had been cited as a primary concern of residential 
neighbors in 2012. Staff also conferred with the City’s Code Enforcement Division, who noted that complaints on auto-
repair businesses have not been raised since 2019. 
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, in April 2020, this initiative was put on hold.  At the beginning of this year, staff resumed 
this code amendment effort and reengaged with UPP to complete the modifications. 
3 of 37

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DISCUSSION:
Parking Ratio for Auto Repair Businesses
After an updated review of existing field conditions, UPP reviewed best-practices from comparable jurisdictions and the 
City’s current Zoning Code requirements to outline potential code amendments for reducing neighborhood impacts while 
achieving greater compliance by auto repair businesses. UPP’s recommendations, as well as the additional work needed to 
implement each code amendment, are described in detail in UPP’s summary memo in Attachment 1. 
One potential code amendment noted in the memo would be to establish a parking requirement based on the total floor 
area of the building rather than on the number of service bays. One example parking ratio based on floor area would be 
one parking stall for each 250 square-feet of floor area. The current staff practice has been to apply the parking ratio for 
“automobile service and gas stations” which requires two parking stalls plus two additional parking stalls for each service 
bay. In practice, an example 1,500 square-foot auto repair business with three service bays would require a total of eight 
off-street parking stalls based on the parking ratio for “automobile service and gas stations”. Alternatively, if the City 
adopted a floor area-based parking ratio, this business would be required six off-street parking stalls based on the example 
parking ratio of one parking stall for each 250 square-feet of floor area.
UPP has found that the current parking requirement for “automobile service and gas stations” falls in the middle of 
requirements of neighboring jurisdictions (when reviewing the total number of parking spaces required for the average 
auto repair use business). In order to determine how a new parking ratio would impact compliance of existing auto repair 
businesses throughout the City, a parking demand study may also be necessary. As noted previously, less than 20 percent 
of existing businesses observed conform with the current parking ratio used for auto repair establishments.
To account for the number of existing auto repair businesses that do not conform to the “automobile service and gas 
stations” ratio, UPP has recommended that the City consider establishing special exceptions for businesses that were 
legally established prior to a certain date. As discussed in UPP’s memo, approximately 55 auto repair businesses were 
established while a less restrictive parking ratio was in effect or while no parking ratio existed at all. A special exception for 
older auto businesses is likely unnecessary, however, given that the current Zoning Code deems these uses as legal 
nonconforming. In addition, more businesses will likely come into conformance if the Council directs staff to establish a 
lower parking ratio.
Other Potential Measures
In addition to potential amendments to parking standards, UPP has recommended other measures to increase parking 
supply and monitor compliance with existing Zoning Code standards. As noted previously, the Council directed staff in June 
of 2018 to explore regulations related to outdoor business activity. The Zoning Code currently requires that all uses 
(including auto repair uses) occur within an enclosed building unless authorized through a Special Use Permit. UPP and 
staff would recommend continuing enforcement of these Zoning Code requirements by coordinating with the City’s Code 
Enforcement Division when outdoor activity is observed. A second measure to increase supply of parking would be to 
coordinate with the Public Works Department to physically modify on-street parking configurations to increase parking 
supply and time-limited parking enforcement on blocks where there is increased parking demand. 
REQUESTED DIRECTION:
Given the infrequency of complaints to staff related to auto-repair businesses and the amount of time that has elapsed 
since the Council last discussed this topic, staff requests the Council’s direction on the following questions:
1.
Are code amendments related to auto repair uses still a priority? 
2.
If so, what code amendments and/or measures would the Council recommend studying further? These may 
include the following:
a.
Complete a parking study to establish revised parking requirements; and/or
b.
Engage with Public Works staff to assess restriping and repaving to increase on-street parking supply on 
blocks where parking is limited and/or there is increased demand.
4 of 37

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact related to this report. If the Council directs staff to pursue code amendments and/or a 
parking demand study, cost associated with this work will be funded through the Community Development Department’s 
budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065, this discussion is not a project under the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) because the City Council is not taking action at this time. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Urban Planning Partners (UPP) Executive Summary – September 9, 2021
STAFF CONTACT
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner
rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7211
5 of 37

--- page 6 ---
Executive Summary 
 
 
DATE 
September 9, 2021   
TO 
Rendell Bustos 
Julia Klein  
Zachary Dahl 
FROM 
Sophie Gabel-Scheinbaum 
Lynette Dias  
RE: Auto Repair Regulations  
 
The purpose of this memorandum is to:  
▪ 
Update the City Council on staff’s work pertaining to whether businesses should be 
conducted wholly within an enclosed building and if zoning code parking standards should 
be amended to reduce the off-street parking requirement for auto repair shops.  
▪ 
Obtain direction from the City Council as to next steps. 
This executive summary provides a brief review of the background related to the issues including 
existing conditions, summarizes most recent work and findings, and then lists some questions for 
the City Council’s consideration. A more detailed memorandum describing past efforts, peer city 
review, and specific options for modes of compliance and conformance are provided in Attachment 
A.  
BACKGROUND   
 
The City’s effort to consider amendments to the zoning code auto repair-related business was first 
initiated in late 2012 in response to neighborhood concerns about the operations of auto repair 
establishments from residential neighborhoods adjoining the Claremont Street/Railroad Avenue 
area. Specifically, residents reported spillover of customer parking and loading/unloading of 
vehicles from carriers parked on residential streets.  
CITY COUNCIL REVIEW  
The City Council was last updated on this item on June 4, 2018 at which time they directed staff to 
come back with changes that support not changing the law with respect to special use permits for 
outdoor work, direction to amend the parking requirements to make it easier to comply for this 
type of use, and for staff to find creative ways to monitor and enforce this without putting anyone 
out of business. The key milestones are outlined below.  
6 of 37

--- page 7 ---
Rendell Bustos, Julia Klein, Zachary Dahl 
September 9, 2021 
Page 2 
STAFF EFFORTS 
In response to City Council direction in 2018, staff began drafting potential amendments to specific 
sections of the municipal code, but the work was not completed. In 2020, the City reinitiated its 
efforts to modify the regulations for auto repair-related businesses to make it easier to comply for 
this type of use, and for staff to find creative ways to monitor and enforce this without putting 
anyone out of business. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, this work was put on hold and reinstated 
early in 2021. See further information on past efforts in Attachment A.  
EXISTING CONDITIONS 
An updated field survey and review of business license records was conducted in early 2020. 
Businesses were field checked to identify on-site conditions related to parking, including whether 
auto repair lifts were present inside and/or outside the facility. 
▪ 
1081 active auto repair businesses were identified throughout the City in proximity to 
Amphlett Blvd., Claremont St./Railroad Ave., Hillsdale Blvd., Palm Ave., and Peninsula Ave.  
▪ 
Less than 20 percent of the 108 facilities conform with current zoning requirements for on-
site parking and auto-repair lifts.  
▪ 
Conditions in the public ROW were clear of debris, trash, and no issues of major sidewalk 
blockages or any work being performed within the public ROW were observed.  
▪ 
Time-restricted street parking is limited with some metered spaces along Claremont 
St./Railroad Ave. Time-limited parking was observed near, Amphlett Blvd. and Palm Ave.  
▪ 
Cars that looked like they had been parked on streets for quite some time, possibly 
abandoned by businesses where customers left unpaid and unusable cars were observed 
consistent with our conversations with owners and employees.   
The City currently requires two parking stalls plus two for each service bay, whether service is 
provided at ground level or upon a lift. A review of 28 peer cities revealed that most cities’ (23 of 28) 
standards are based on square footages. Five out of the 28 cities used services bays as the 
measurement for minimum parking requirements. The City of San Mateo’s requirements 
generally seem in the middle of what other jurisdictions require, particularly when looking at cities 
that use service bays to calculate parking. 
POTENTIAL SOLUTIONS  
In response to the City Council’s request to make it easier to comply for this type of use and for staff 
to find creative ways to monitor and enforce this without putting anyone out of business two 
primary options were explored. 
 
1 113 facilities were surveyed and detailed in April memo, but removed 5 facilities that were specific to automobile 
washing and cleaning establishments. 
7 of 37

--- page 8 ---
Rendell Bustos, Julia Klein, Zachary Dahl 
September 9, 2021 
Page 3 
1. MUNICIPAL CODE MODIFICATIONS  
After considering several modifications to the code, the following were determined to result in the 
greatest increase of compliance for existing businesses and be effective for new businesses as well. 
Italic type indicates additional work needed to implement the modification. 
A. Special Exceptions for Businesses Established Prior to 1961 
Prior to 1961 there were no parking regulations. Remove parking regulations for the 
approximately 21 facilities build prior to 1961 that are not already compliant with 2020 
standards.2 Prohibit all outdoor lifts independent of when business was established. To confirm 
how many facilities were established as auto repair and have continuously operated as such, 
additional work is needed including obtaining data from the City’s historic business license records 
and potentially requiring the business owner to provide evidence.  
B. Special Exceptions for Businesses Established From 1961-1968 
From 1961-1968: regulations were based on one parking space for each two employees. 
Establish these standards for 34 facilities established during this period, that are not already 
compliant with 2020 standards. Prohibit all outdoor lifts independent of when business was 
established. Established dates would also need to be verified as described above.  
C. Parking Requirements 
Change parking standard from service bay (2 parking stalls, plus 2 for each service bay) to 
square footage (1 space/500 sq ft)3 or keep the current standard and add the 1 space/500 sf as 
an either/or for uses established prior to 2020. However, to determine how this may impact each 
area, a parking supply and demand study should be completed. 
D. Valet Parking  
Administrative use permit to allow the permittee the use of non-striped areas for parking and 
queuing if such use would not impact the public and inhibit save business operations. Staff 
would review and approve or deny permits, and only refer to planning commission if complex or 
otherwise controversial. Findings of approval would need to be developed by staff and included 
with the code amendment.  
 
Implementation of the above measures have the potential to increase compliance with regulations 
from approximately 19 percent to 70 percent depending on how many businesses could be 
confirmed as being established prior to 1968 as detailed above (see A & B).  
2.  OTHER POTENTIAL MEASURES  
In addition to the code amendments detailed above, the following measures are also 
recommended to increase supply and monitor code compliance. 
 
2 A review of historic aerials indicates a significant number of the sites were developed prior to 1961. Aerial imagery was cross 
referenced for building footprints specific to certain uses, not for a specific use.  
3 1 space/500 sf ft was the most frequently used measurement for peer cities using sf ft for parking regulations. 
8 of 37

--- page 9 ---
Rendell Bustos, Julia Klein, Zachary Dahl 
September 9, 2021 
Page 4 
A. Work with Public Works to modify street parking configuration to maximize on-street parking 
supply where ROW could accommodate diagonal or perpendicular to fit more cars. 
B. Coordination with code enforcement4 related to:  
▪ 
Nuisance behaviors like excessive noise and trash in street, and blockages; 
▪ 
Prohibition of outdoor auto-repair lifts given public safety; 
▪ 
Additional street parking enforcement including: Enforcement on vehicles that appear 
inoperable and/or have not been moved for several weeks, sticker parking enforcement on 
metered and time-limited parking; and 
▪ 
Establishing a timeline and requirement to obtain permits for all unpermitted indoor auto-
repair lifts and a monitoring program.  
REQUESTED DIRECTION 
Please provide direction on the following questions to help us determine next steps: 
1. The concerns around auto-repair businesses and parking were raised several years ago. Does 
this work remain a priority?   
2. Is there an interest to modify/reduce the parking requirements to increase the number of 
businesses that would comply? 
3. Is there an interest in developing a special exception provision for businesses established prior 
to 1968? 
4. If parking reductions are considered, should a parking supply & demand study be completed? 
5. Should we work with Public Works to assess restriping and paving improvements to increase 
the supply of on-street parking?  
 
 
 
 
4 It should be noted that staff confirmed there have not been complaints on auto-repair related businesses 
since 2019.  
9 of 37

--- page 10 ---
Attachment A - Memorandum 
DATE 
April 30, 2020 
TO 
Rendell Bustos 
Julia Klein 
FROM 
Emilie Wolfson 
Sophie Gabel-Scheinbaum  
Lynette Dias 
RE:  
Auto Repair Establishments Existing Conditions, Best Practices Review, 
Comprehensive Inventory, and Recommendations  
 
The City recently reinitiated its efforts to modify the regulations for auto repair-related businesses 
specific to parking requirements, mechanical lifts, and outdoor business activity, to better 
accommodate their continued operation. Recognizing that the majority of auto repair-related 
businesses do not conform with current City regulations and that such business fulfill a vital service 
to the community, the City Council directed staff to explore options to modify existing regulations 
to be more accommodating to the current operations of these businesses. Urban Planning Partners 
(UPP) is working with the City to complete the updates. The purpose of this memorandum is to:  
▪ 
Provide context and descriptions of prior work conducted towards this effort.  
▪ 
Review the City of San Mateo Zoning Code as it relates to auto repair establishment 
parking as well as define specific terms.  
▪ 
Summarize our findings related to 28 comparable peer cities.  
▪ 
Provide recommendations for practices based on data gathered from the comprehensive 
inventory and suggestions from council that could be incorporated into specific code 
amendments and performance standards.  
We hope the above information will provide the basis for City staff to provide feedback on our 
recommendations to address the City’s objectives to help formulate specific code amendments.  
This memorandum is organized as follows: 
▪ 
Prior City Work, which includes a summary of the City’s prior efforts related to auto repair 
facilities such as various city council directions, city staff actions such as prior field surveys 
and draft updates to parking ratios that were not officially adopted.   
▪ 
City’s Existing Regulations, with provides an overview of the City’s existing regulations for 
parking requirements as well as important definitions related to auto repair establishments.  
10 of 37

--- page 11 ---
TO: 
Rendell Bustos 
DATE: April 30, 2020  
PAGE: 2 
 
▪ 
Peer City Requirements, provides an overview of peer city requirements about 
grandfathering parking requirements for their code.  
▪ 
2020 Comprehensive Field Survey, provides a description of the methodology used to 
collect the inventory (how questions were developed, the checklist content, what auto 
repair business were surveyed, the type of outreach to businesses, times and days visited 
and the process for which the site visits were conducted), as well as limitations of results 
and data assumptions. Key themes from the comprehensive inventory including 
observations within the Public ROW, On-site Indoors, and On-Site Outdoors, and other 
considerations from the data analysis process are also presented.  
▪ 
Recommendations, identifies recommendations for code amendments and performance 
standards in two key areas (Off-Site/Public ROW, and On-Site). These recommendations 
for code amendments and performance standards will fit into the existing Zoning Code and 
hold existing and new facilities accountable to updated code enforcement. 
PRIOR CITY WORK 
The City’s effort to reform auto repair-related business development standards was first initiated in 
late 2012 in response to ongoing neighborhood concerns. There were complaints about the 
operations of auto repair establishments from residential neighborhoods adjoining the Claremont 
Street/Railroad Avenue area due to parking constraints and visual impacts on the public ROW. 
Specifically, residents reported spillover of customer parking and loading/unloading vehicles from 
cars parked in residential streets. An outline of the work to date is provided below. 
CITY COUNCIL REVIEW IN 2016 
 
The City Council discussed the concerns brought to their attention by homeowners in certain areas 
of San Mateo and expressed concern about protecting the viability of these businesses while also 
recognizing that some improvements and changes are needed. Staff presented on key issues 
including conformity over time for existing businesses, the need to prioritize high-impact areas, and 
the importance of creating and maintaining conformance on a citywide basis. Specific approaches 
to the issues presented included: immediate removal of vehicle lifts, amortization (removal within 
2-5 years), reduction in parking standards, allowing off-site parking, special use permit for reduced 
parking, and/or code enforcement action. City Council members requested that staff do more 
outreach with the businesses in question in order to brainstorm solutions and get a better context 
for existing conditions.  
 
In order to take the time to systematically address the issues that were raised at that time, and to 
work with the businesses in developing solutions, enforcement of most development code 
violations were suspended, and such suspension continues. The intent of this temporary suspension 
of enforcement was to enable the City to examine options and identify the types of assistance that 
11 of 37

--- page 12 ---
TO: 
Rendell Bustos 
DATE: April 30, 2020  
PAGE: 3 
 
could be provided to bring affected businesses into compliance.  
CITY ACTION IN 2017 
The City sent letters to all auto repair establishments on November 1, 2017 requesting they 
complete an enclosed card regarding the presence of auto repair lifts and any related City permits 
they had acquired. At that time, there were approximately 140 auto repair establishments. 
Questions regarding the number of parking spots was not part of this information request. If the 
facility had no lifts, or if the issuance of City permits could be verified for existing lifts, no further 
action beyond returning the card was necessary. The self-generated mailer produced 15 responses. 
Out of the 15 received, nine detailed having auto repair lifts. Out of the nine with auto repair lifts, 
only three were listed as being permitted.  
FIELD SURVEY OF AUTO REPAIR FACILITIES IN 2017 
Additionally, in 2017, the City notified and field surveyed 87 out of a total of 137 active auto repair 
establishments in the Claremont Street/Railroad Avenue. As part of the initial effort, businesses 
were field checked to identify (1) on-site conditions, including whether auto repair lifts were present 
inside and/or outside the facility and (2) what other types of nonconforming conditions existed.  
The results indicated that out of the 87 field check establishments, 60 had lifts (69 percent) , for 13 
establishments it was unclear if lifts were present(15 percent), and 14 did not have lifts present 
(16 percent). The primary observed nonconforming issues included inoperable vehicles and parts 
stored outside of buildings, repair work performed outside and in the public ROW, unpermitted 
structures, parking violations such as double parking, cars within the ROW, and graffiti. 
Unpermitted on-site outdoor lifts were also discovered during the field survey —two of the 87 
facilities had such unpermitted lifts. 
CITY COUNCIL REVIEW IN 2018 
The City Council included a discussion on auto repair facility issues in their meeting on June 4th, 
2018. The council requested review of the existing program as it relates to building permits, parking 
regulations, and outdoor operations and provided avenues of exploration and potential research to 
be done by staff.  
Urban Planning Partners is picking up where staff left off in 2018 to provide an updated review of 
existing conditions and a comprehensive overhaul of the existing program that is still creating 
obstacles for business-owners and homeowners alike.  
12 of 37

--- page 13 ---
TO: 
Rendell Bustos 
DATE: April 30, 2020  
PAGE: 4 
 
STAFF EFFORTS TO UPDATE PARKING RATIOS AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS IN 2018 
As part of prior efforts to update parking ratios and performance standards in 2018, staff prepared 
an initial draft of potential amendments to specific sections of the municipal code as outlined 
below. None of these amendments have been considered for adoption.  
Section 27.64.160, Parking Schedules Generally 
▪ 
Add a separate “automobile repair” Use that would have the same parking requirements as 
automobile service and gas stations.  
Section 27.64.185, Automobile Service Stations 
▪ 
Add the following text as Additional Requirements.  
o Should the auto repair establishment not be able to provide the required parking 
stalls, such establishment may be permitted to submit a parking plan that 
demonstrates the ability to provide sufficient off-street parking within the structure 
or otherwise on the property such that: 
▪ 
Size of all parking stalls shall comply with the Standard Drawings and 
Specifications; however, the requirements for standard access will not be 
required provided that the autos in such stalls will be maneuvered by the 
establishment staff rather than customer. 
▪ 
Stalls may be placed in tandem.  
▪ 
Stalls may be located within stronger ad long as they did block emergency 
exits. 
▪ 
Two of the off-street parking stalls, accessible to the street and not located 
within the building, shall be required for customer drop-off only.  
o Should the auto repair establishment not be able to provide the required parking 
stalls according to the provisions for parking plans above, such establishments may 
be permitted to submit an application for a special use permit for the purpose of 
providing Valet Parking under a set of rules:  
▪ 
Permittee would not park and leave standing any patrons vehicle in any 
portion of the public ROW.  
▪ 
Pedestrian walkways are not blocked. 
▪ 
No vehicle should be parked upon private property. 
▪ 
Valet should have a valid California license, be over 18 years of age, and 
years identification. 
 
As stated above these draft amendments have not yet been considered for adoption. We have used 
13 of 37

--- page 14 ---
TO: 
Rendell Bustos 
DATE: April 30, 2020  
PAGE: 5 
 
them as a starting point for UPP’s recommendations listed at the end of this memorandum.  
CITY EXISTING REGULATIONS 
DEFINITIONS                                                                                                                                                       
To help facilitate understanding of the City’s current definitions related to automobile services, the 
following definitions are excerpted from  City Municipal Code Section 27.04, Definitions, for 
convenient reference.  
▪ 
Automobile Service Station:  
a. Premises devoted to the retail sale of motor vehicle fuel, lubricating oils, and similar 
products.  
b.  Premises providing services for lubrication, car washing, polishing, undersealing, minor 
motor tune-up and repair, ignition system repair and front end and wheel alignment, 
including minor work incidental to the foregoing where cutting and fitting machinery is 
employed. 
c. Premises devoted to the retail sale and installation of batteries, tires, windshield 
wipers, spark plugs, headlights, tail and backup lights, mufflers, shock absorbers, 
brakes, seat covers and similar accessories, including minor work incidental to the 
foregoing where cutting and fitting machinery is employed. 
d. The following is excluded and not permitted: engine replacement, major repair, 
including, but not limited to, framework and body repair work; the repair and 
installation of clutch, transmission and differentials, and further excluding any other 
work where cutting and fitting machinery is employed, except that cutting and fitting 
machinery may be used for that work which is specifically or incidentally authorized 
under subsections (2) and (3) of this section.  
▪ 
Car Wash: An automated or non-automated facility for and a process involving the washing 
and/or cleaning of motor vehicles, which may include drying facilities. To be designated a 
car wash, the use must constitute a major or principal use of the premises, rather than a 
causal or occasional use performed as an accommodation or convenience to customers. 
▪ 
Motor Vehicle Repair, Major: Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of worn or 
damaged motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame, or fender 
straightening or repair; and overall painting of vehicles within an enclosed building.  
▪ 
 Motor Vehicle Repair, Minor: Incidental repairs, replacement of parts, and motor service 
to motor vehicles, but does not include any operation specified under major motor vehicle 
repair.  
▪ 
Off-Street Parking: Parking stalls provided beyond the right-of-way of a street or 
highway.  
14 of 37

--- page 15 ---
TO: 
Rendell Bustos 
DATE: April 30, 2020  
PAGE: 6 
 
▪ 
On-Street parking: Parking stalls provided within the right-of-way of a street or highway.  
▪ 
Service Bay: An enclosed work-station capable of accommodating one vehicle for 
automotive repair.  
▪ 
Valet Parking: Automobile parking service provided by an attendant for the patrons of 
commercial establishments.  
PARKING REQUIREMENTS 
The City of San Mateo regulates off street parking as part of City Municipal Code Section 27.64.160 
“Parking Schedules Generally.” The following chart indicates the requirements for automobile 
repair, automobile service and gas stations, and automobile washing and cleaning establishments.  
Uses (for 3. Commercial, Retail, and Service Use) 
Minimum Parking Stalls Required  
a. 
Automobile service and gas stations (see Section 
26.64.185). 
Two parking stalls plus two for each service bay, 
whether service is provided at ground level or upon a 
lift. 
b. Automobile washing and cleaning 
establishments. 
Ten queued stalls for each wash rack exclusive of 
autos on conveyor plus parking stalls for each wash 
rack.  
c. 
Motor vehicle sales and associated automotive 
repair. 
One stall per 400 square feet of floor area plus one 
space per 1,000 square feet of outdoor display area.  
In addition, 27.64.185 includes additional requirements for automobile service stations: 
a. Only vehicles awaiting service and towing vehicles shall be stored on the premises, except for 
employee parking and approved rental parking spaces.  
b. Parking of commercial vehicles shall be prohibited unless allowed in the zoning district as a 
permitted use.  
PEER CITY REQUIREMENTS 
Urban Planning Partners reviewed 28 cities’ municipal codes  related to parking requirements for 
automobile repair, automobile service and gas stations, and automobile washing and cleaning 
establishments (except for self-service washing facilities). Cities immediately adjacent to San 
Mateo were included, as well as several east bay cities; a few further south, one further north, and 
one in Southern California including : Alameda, Albany, Belmont, Burlingame, Colma, Daly City, 
Davis, Dublin, East Palo Alto, Emeryville, Foster City, Fremont, Half Moon Bay, Hayward, Menlo 
Park, Millbrae, Milpitas, Newark, Oakland, Pacifica, Pleasanton, Redwood City, Richmond, 
Riverside, San Bruno, San Carlos, San Leandro and South San Francisco. Of the 28 cities mentioned 
above, 26 were also reviewed during efforts in 2018. 
15 of 37

--- page 16 ---
TO: 
Rendell Bustos 
DATE: April 30, 2020  
PAGE: 7 
 
In addition to reviewing code requirements related to parking requirements, we reached out to 10 
of the 28 cities to better understand if they had grandfather clauses for facilities who operated 
before current regulations including Albany, Burlingame, Emeryville, Foster City, Hayward, Menlo 
Park, Redwood City San Bruno, San Carlos, and San Leandro.  
Below is a description of both the minimum parking requirements data, and the grandfather 
clauses data and summary of conversations.  
MINIMUM PARKING REQUIREMENTS  
The Peer City Minimum Parking Requirements Table provided as Attachment A lists minimum 
requirements for the 28 cities as well as an example facility to contextualize the associated 
standards. In order to understand where San Mateo stood in terms of the number of spaces 
required, we used a sample size auto repair shop to contextualize the requirements (which was the 
same example used in earlier 2018 efforts). It assumes a 4,800-square-foot auto repair shop with 
five workstations (or service bays), a 400-square-foot office, and 500 square feet of storage. San 
Mateo under this example requires 12 parking spaces, which falls in the middle of other cities’ 
required parking. The highest number of spaces required under this example were 29 (Menlo Park), 
25 (Emeryville), and 24 (Colma and Alameda); however, it should be noted that the City of Menlo 
Park calculates parking based on the zone, not the specific use or number of service bays. The 
lowest number of spaces required based on this example was 5 (Oakland) and 6 (Burlingame, Daly 
City and Millbrae). Other cities vary between 6 and 29. Additional detail is provided below.  
There was a great deal of variety between the city’s requirements for minimum parking. Most cities 
(23 of 28) had requirements based on square footages. Some of the 23 cities used service bays in 
addition to square footage to determine required parking (those cities including San Carlos, South 
San Francisco, and Redwood City). For cities that based minimum parking required on square 
footage, the cities that required the largest number of parking spaces were Colma, where one 
space was required for 200 square feet; Alameda, where five spaces are required per 1,000 square 
feet; Menlo Park, where six spaces are required per 1,000 square feet; and Emeryville, where one 
space was required per 200 square feet of shop area as well as 1 additional space. The City with the 
smallest number of total parking spaces required per square foot was Oakland where one space is 
required per 1,000 square feet.  
Five out of the 28 cities used services bays as the measurement for minimum parking requirements. 
Redwood City uses three spaces/bays if that total is greater than one space per 500 square feet. Of 
the other cities using service bays, the requirements ranged from either four spaces/bays, three 
spaces/bays, or two spaces/bays. Of the five cities that use service bay as a measurement, two 
require more spaces in addition to the spaces per bay—with Riverside requiring six spaces in 
addition to the two spaces/bays under their vehicle repair category and South San Francisco 
requiring one space beyond the four spaces/bays.  
16 of 37

--- page 17 ---
TO: 
Rendell Bustos 
DATE: April 30, 2020  
PAGE: 8 
 
Some cities such as Emeryville have six categories of auto repair establishments each having 
separate requirements; some based off of square footage (in the case of the auto repair 
establishment, five spaces/1,000 square feet), or some based off service capacity in the case of auto 
service.  
GRANDFATHER CLAUSES 
UPP reached out via email to 10 of the 28 cities cited above (some in the east bay, most in adjacent 
and/or neighboring cities) to better understand if they had grandfather clauses for facilities who 
operated before current regulations. In the email responses received, many cities recognized that 
their existing parking ordinance is out of date and imprecise. Many described that some of the 
issues they have with auto repair and auto body is the high volume of vehicle storage, and cars 
sitting until parts arrive. Some cities require conditional use permits (for nonconforming 
conditions), so parking issues are sorted out through a formal decision maker. The most relevant 
examples are highlighted below. 
San Leandro offers a parking exception application which allows applicants to propose a solution to 
justify the modified parking. This makes it the applicant’s responsibility to resolve any parking 
issue. As stated on San Leandro’s parking exception information sheet (available as Attachment B), 
the purpose of the parking exception is to have the Board of Zoning Adjustments review and 
evaluate the specific hardships in relation to the use of complementary parking, available on-street 
parking, and other relevant parking conditions in the vicinity. This process is intended to resolve 
practical difficulties or unnecessary physical hardships in providing the required off-street parking 
spaces. Findings that are necessary for approval include difficulty or undue hardship, reasonable 
off-street parking compliance, alternative parking measures (car share features, transit passes, 
proximity to BART, or BRT), and projects that provide affordable/senior/mixed use housing. 
Projects within a ¼-mile of BART or BRT almost always qualify and get a pass on some and/or all 
parking requirement. (Auto-oriented uses are zoned out of those areas. The process takes about 3 
to 6 months from date of application submittal and approval is not guaranteed. The planning 
manager for the City of San Leandro also mentioned that they have had difficulty bringing the 
parking ordinance up for a needed overhaul; though they do plan on establish parking maximums.)  
In San Bruno, the City Council adopted a parking standard update in late February 2020, which 
went into effect in late March. The most relevant updates are summarized below: 
• 
For nonresidential land uses in Specific Plan areas, the number of required off-street 
parking spaces as specified may be reduced up to 30 percent with approval of one or more 
of the programs as specified below by the community and economic development director 
or approving body for the project enticement or permit.  
Nonresidential projects in Specific Plan Areas may pay an in-lieu fee as an alternative to providing 
required off-street parking spaces at the discretion of the approval body: 
17 of 37

--- page 18 ---
TO: 
Rendell Bustos 
DATE: April 30, 2020  
PAGE: 9 
 
▪ 
The amount of the in-lieu fee shall by set by city council resolution.  
▪ 
The in-lieu fee and parking reductions may be combined to achieve a maximum off-street 
parking reduction of 30 percent which applies to new construction, enlargements, and 
changes of use.  
The use of valet parking shall not reduce the number of off-street parking spaces required, and it 
requires a conditional use permit approved by the planning commission and shall not block any 
uses in the public ROW. 
In Hayward, the municipal code does have grandfathering allowances related to parking for existing 
buildings. Specifically, Section 10-2.200 relates to Application of the parking regulations and 
specific triggers for bringing existing buildings/sites into conformance with the regulations for a 
change of use both downtown (subsection b, referred to as Central Parking District) and in the rest 
of the city (subsection c). In addition, Section 10-2.201 explains that no existing use of land or 
structure shall be deemed a nonconforming use solely because of the lack of off-street parking or 
loading facilities.  
2020 COMPRHENSIVE FIELD SURVEY 
Given the prior field surveys were three years old and they were not comprehensive, the City and 
UPP decided that a new comprehensive survey should be prepared. The objectives of the 2020 field 
survey were to ensure City staff has a solid understanding of the existing conditions of auto-repair 
facilities throughout the City in the context of the City’s existing regulations to inform our work in 
drafting amendments with the goal of maintaining and legalizing the existing business to the 
extent feasible. In late February 2020, the City sent 160 letters to auto repair facilities in San Mateo.  
SCOPE OF SURVEY AND APPROACH 
Four different letters were sent out with the same information apart from dates and times of 
proposed site visits. The 160 auto repair facilities were broken up into clusters based on their 
location within the City of San Mateo and four main groups surfaced: 1) Claremont Street/Railroad 
Avenue, Hillsdale Boulevard, Palm Avenue, and Amphlett Boulevard and Peninsula Avenue 
(although these are two separate neighborhoods, we clustered them together for site visit 
purposes). Each letter: 
▪ 
Described the City’s re-initiation of efforts to modify the existing regulations for auto 
repair-related businesses specific to parking requirements, mechanical lifts, and outdoor 
business activity to better accommodate their continued operation.  
▪ 
Summarized efforts so far and gave the history of efforts starting in 2012 in response to 
ongoing neighborhood quality concerns, which began with notification and inspection of 
the businesses in the Claremont Street/Railroad Avenue area.  
18 of 37

--- page 19 ---
TO: 
Rendell Bustos 
DATE: April 30, 2020  
PAGE: 10 
 
▪ 
Explained that the purpose of the site visit would be to verify existing conditions at auto 
repair-related establishments and not seek removal of any existing auto repair-related 
businesses or to issue citations, but rather to collect information to inform 
recommendations to the City Council about ways to better regulate parking, auto repair-
lifts, and outdoor operations associated with auto repair-related businesses.  
A copy of the letter sent is found in Attachment C.  
Facilities were visited in groups pertaining to their location on February 28, March 2, March 4, 
March 5, and March 6, 2020. Auto repair facilities were given the choice between an afternoon or 
morning time slot and were asked to confirm which time slot they preferred. Out of the 160 letters 
sent, only a handful of facilities selected a preferred time. For the rest of the facilities, we visited 
them based on the instructions of the letter, either during a 2- to 4-hour block in the morning, or in 
the afternoon. 
Site visits were conducted using a checklist developed specifically to observe (1) parking on and off-
site , (2) the number of service bays and auto repair lifts, and (3) what equipment and operations 
occurred outside of the primary building, including other outdoor structures. Observations were 
recorded on checklists during the site visits. The checklist content is discussed below.  
CHECKLIST CONTENT  
A checklist was developed to use at the auto repair facilities site visits. The checklist can be found in 
Attachment D. Basic information was entered before conducting site visits such as, business name, 
address of premises, neighborhood, type of facility, owners name and phone number (if readily 
available), and date of site visit.  
Three different subsections where part of the checklist; conditions outside in the public ROW, 
conditions on-site and outdoors, and conditions on-site and indoors. Additionally, there was a place 
to enter any other concerns or comments. The checklist questions included: 
Within the Public ROW 
▪ 
Is the street parking metered? 
Is there available street parking immediately adjacent to the facility?  
Is there evidence of customers employees using off-site parking? 
Are there any blockages of side walk with anything?  
Is there work being performed outside in public ROW? 
Is there trash/debris/dumpsters in the street or blocking sidewalks?  
Are vehicles or other queues obstructing public ROWs?  
19 of 37

--- page 20 ---
TO: 
Rendell Bustos 
DATE: April 30, 2020  
PAGE: 11 
 
Outside but On-Site  
▪ 
Are there service bays present? If so, how many?  
Are there auto repair lifts present? If so, how many?  
Are there visible free standing outdoor structures (i.e., tents/canopies)?  
Is any work being performed outside?  
Is there any on-site stripped parking spaces? If so, how many parking spaces?  
Is there a que area and approximately how big?  
Excess noise noticed?  
Any storage of impounded/inoperable or vehicle parts in parking lots not covered by or enclosed 
within a 6-foot fence?  
Indoors  
▪ 
Are there service bays present?  
Are there auto repair lifts present? If so, how many? 
Does the type of use match the type of facility, i.e., if auto repair facility, are there elements of auto 
repair happening? 
Is there on-site stripped parking spaces? If so, how many parking spaces?  
Is there a queue area and approximately how big?  
LIMITATIONS OF RESULTS AND DATA ASSUMPTIONS  
Our original list of auto repair establishments totaled 160, however, upon visiting the associated 
addresses we edited the list to reflect the 113 of these facilities that currently exist and operate. The 
list was established based on a list of active business licenses for auto repair facilities with the City 
of San Mateo. Many of the identified establishments were no longer in business or had changed 
names (resulting in two listings for one address). In addition, during our site visits, we noticed 12 
facilities that were not on the business license list. Subsequent site visits to these facilities are 
tentatively planned for June 2020. As a result, these 12 facilities are not considered in the data 
analysis. If these additional facilities offer significantly differing results, we will amend the 
discussion in future versions of this document.  
As described earlier, the existing City of San Mateo parking code standards section includes three 
different classifications: motor vehicle sales and associated automotive repair, automobile service 
and gas stations, and automobile washing and cleaning establishments. The original list of auto-
related businesses provided to us from the finance department detailed the company’s business 
type but did not use the same categories as described in the planning code. Given that the exact 
floor area was not known for each facility, it would have been difficult to use the motor vehicle sales 
and associated automotive repair calculation for the number of parking spots required. Only one of 
the establishments visited appeared to have been selling cars. In addition, we did not differentiate 
between automobile washing and cleaning establishments and automobile service and gas 
stations—and assumed that each facility’s required number of parking spaces required would be 
20 of 37

--- page 21 ---
TO: 
Rendell Bustos 
DATE: April 30, 2020  
PAGE: 12 
 
equal to two parking stalls plus two for each service bay. Only five automobile washing and 
cleaning establishments were visited, and some of these facilities also served as detailing.  
Many facilities with on-site parking areas did not have specific striped spaces; or for many, cars 
were parked in tandem. For the purposes of the parking space count, we considered non-striped 
parking spots and tandem parking as parking spaces; as long as they did not block the public ROW, 
or any ingress/egress, or any other noticeable safety feature.  
KEY THEMES AND FINDINGS  
 
The following site visit analysis identifies key themes from the data to inform recommendations 
and eventual code amendments. The findings are categorized into observations made for the 
public ROW, on-site outside, and on-site indoors, and mirror the checklist content as described 
above. Most pertinent to the code amendments is a description of the existing number of on-site 
parking spaces for each facility and how it compares to what is required by current code 
requirements. In addition, we wanted to understand what percentage of facilities both citywide, 
and across the five neighborhoods (Amphlett Boulevard, Claremont Street/Railroad Avenue, 
Hillsdale Boulevard, Palm Avenue and Peninsula Avenue) were in compliance with the current 
parking standards. As further discussed below, approximately 18 percent of facilities are compliant 
with the current parking regulations signaling a needed change in the existing zoning code for 
parking requirements if the City wants to facilitate these business complying with City 
requirements.  
 
The number of parking spaces for each auto repair facility is described under observations on-site 
indoors; however, parking spaces were considered and counted both indoors and outdoors on-site. 
Three facilities had ancillary lots off-site, and these were considered as part of “on-site parking”. 
One of these facilities was able to come into compliance because of the ancillary lots. In the future 
we recommend requiring a SUP for ancillary lots-off-site.   
As part of our observations, and as part of prior city work to map auto repair establishments within 
the City of San Mateo, there is intensive clustering in certain neighborhoods of San Mateo. A 
current map of the facilities by neighborhood is provided in Attachment E.  
The largest number of auto repair facilities in San Mateo is within the Claremont Street/Railroad 
Avenue (51 total). The clustering of facilities in this neighborhood was the densest, with facilities 
next door to each other for several blocks. Palm Avenue and Amphlett Boulevard neighborhoods 
also had a dense clustering of auto repair facilities; Amphlett Boulevard with 20 auto repair 
facilities, and Palm Avenue with 24 auto repair facilities. Peninsula Avenue (6 auto repair facilities) 
and Hillsdale Boulevard (11 auto repair facilities) neighborhoods did not have the same dense 
clustering of auto repair facilities, and in some cases there were only a few close to each other with 
the majority being several blocks away from one another. Given the clustering within the 
neighborhoods discussed above, it was no surprise that in observations the Claremont 
21 of 37

--- page 22 ---
TO: 
Rendell Bustos 
DATE: April 30, 2020  
PAGE: 13 
 
Street/Railroad Avenue and Amphlett Boulevard had overall smaller facilities with fewer service 
bays (on average around 5.7 service bays and 4.2 service bays respectively compared to the city 
average of 5.7 service bays citywide). 
Observations: Public ROW  
 
When this initiative first started in 2012 many of the complaints regarding the operations of auto 
repair establishments were from residential neighborhoods adjoining the Claremont 
Street/Railroad Avenue specifically about work being conducted in the public ROW and a concern 
for trash and debris in the street. Conditions outside in the public ROW for all facilities as part of 
survey observations were clear of debris, trash, and we did not observe any issues of major sidewalk 
blockages. There were some instances where a car was parked on the sidewalk but by the time we 
did our site observations it was moved within a span of a few minutes. We did not observe any work 
being performed outside in the public ROW.  
Metered parking and time-limited parking was not abundantly present near auto repair facilities. 
Metered street parking was only present near Claremont Street/Railroad Avenue. Time limited 
parking was observed near Amphlett Boulevard and Palm Avenue. We observed cars that looked 
like they had been parked on streets for quite some time given the amount of dust they 
accumulated, and/or other considerations such as flat or low tires. These observations of older, 
abandoned cars matched our conservations with both owners and employees of auto repair 
facilities as described further below.  
We observed a few instances where facilities had parking lots off-site on a different property which 
employees had described as parking for customers; however, there were storage of inoperable 
vehicles within these lots. As part of the checklist, this question was listed under outside, but on-
site; however, as mentioned these lots were off-site on a different property either immediately 
adjacent or some short distance away.  
Observations: On-Site Indoors  
All facilities observed matched their stated use. All the facilities were operating as auto 
repair/maintenance/service or cleaning stations.  
A handful of facilities seemed like they had an influx of parking, and even though they were not 
complying with the current code requirement, the number of parking spaces dictated by code was 
not necessary to meet their need. For some facilities, the opposite was true. Services varied widely 
between quick repairs (oil-change, fluid adjustment), medium repairs (where cars would be 
dropped off and picked up), or longer repairs with detailing. Detailing shops seemed not to struggle 
in the same way that other facilities did given that cars would often be worked on for several days a 
time versus more drop-ins which required more shuffling of cars and subsequently parking. 
22 of 37

--- page 23 ---
TO: 
Rendell Bustos 
DATE: April 30, 2020  
PAGE: 14 
 
Figure 1 includes a comparison of facilities that meet the current parking code with facilities that do 
not meet the code.  
 
 
Figure 1 Comparison of, Facilities that Meet Current Parking Code, and Facilities that Do Not Meet Code 
As stated initially, the primary focus and intent of this research is to inform zoning code 
amendments for the City of San Mateo related to parking ratios for existing and new auto repair-
related businesses. The following describes key information about existing parking conditions by 
neighborhood and how they relate to further recommendations and considerations.  
▪ 
In the Amphlett Boulevard neighborhood 7 out of 20 establishments met the current 
parking requirement (35 percent compliance). Of those businesses, 11 were within a 50 
percent compliance (meaning they had at least 50 percent of the required spaces), and 13 
were within a 25 percent compliance. The high end deficit is  14 spaces (where 16 are 
required), and the low end is 1 (where 10 spaces are required) with an average deficit of 8 
spaces (with an average of 13 spaces required. Four facilities had no on-site parking spaces. 
See Table 1A attached at the end of this memorandum for more detail.  
▪ 
In the Claremont Avenue neighborhood 6 out 51 establishments met the current parking 
requirements (12 percent compliance). Of those businesses, 13 were within a 50 percent 
compliance (meaning that they had at least 50 percent of the required spaces), and 21 were 
within a 25 percent compliance. The high end of the deficit is 36 (where 36 are required) and 
the low end is 1 (where 5 spaces are required) with an average deficit of 12 spaces (with an 
average of 9 spaces required). More than half of the facilities (29 out of 51) had no on-site 
parking spaces. See Table 1B attached at the end of this memorandum for more detail.  
20
7
6
2
3
2
91
13
45
9
21
4
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Citywide
Amphlett Blvd
Claremont
St./Railroad
Ave
Hillsdale Blvd
Palm Ave
Peninsula Ave
Facilities Meet Code
Facilities Do Not Meet Code
23 of 37

--- page 24 ---
TO: 
Rendell Bustos 
DATE: April 30, 2020  
PAGE: 15 
 
▪ 
In the Hillsdale Boulevard neighborhood 2 out of 11 establishments met the current parking 
requirements (18 percent compliance) Of those businesses, 5 were within a 50 percent 
compliance (meaning that they had at least 50 percent of the required spaces), and 7 were 
within a 25 percent compliance. The high end of the deficit is 26 (where 34 are required)  
and the low end is 2 (where 10 spaces are required) with an average deficit of 12 spaces 
(with an average of 7 spaces required. See Table 1C attached at the end of this 
memorandum for more detail. 
▪ 
In the Palm Avenue neighborhood 4 out of 24 establishments met the current parking 
requirements (17 percent compliance). Of those businesses, 7 were within a 50 percent 
compliance (meaning that they had at least 50 percent of the required spaces), and 12 were 
within a 25 percent compliance. The high end of the deficit is 18 (where 18 are required) and 
the low end is 1 (where 6 spaces are required) with an average deficit of 9 spaces (with an 
average of 5 spaces required). Eight facilities had no on-site parking spaces. See Table 1D 
attached at the end of this memorandum for more detail. 
▪ 
In the Peninsula Avenue neighborhood 2 out of 6 establishments met the current parking 
requirements (33 percent compliance). Of those businesses, 3 were within a 50 percent 
compliance (meaning that they had at least 50 percent of the required spaces), and 4 were 
within a 25 percent compliance. The high end of the deficit is 22 (where 22 spaces are 
required) and the low end is 3 (where 14 spaces are required) with an average deficit of 11 
spaces (with an average of 1 spaces required). Two facilities had no on-site parking spaces. 
See Table 1E attached at the end of this memorandum for more detail. 
Observations: On-Site Outdoors  
An area of focus from previous efforts of the site visits was the number of outdoor lifts and/or 
structures such as tents or canopies that auto repair facilities had. From observations from the site 
visits there were only 16 facilities that had service bays outside—for a total of 38 service bays, and 
only 12 of these facilities had outdoor lifts— for a total of 15 lifts—which indicates that less than 10 
percent of facilities in the comprehensive inventory have outdoor lifts. For the facilities that had 
outside lifts/and or structures such as tents or canopies only a few appeared to be actively 
performing work outside. About half of these looked like there were actively set up for work, 
whereas the other half looked like structures had been used previously but were not in use 
presently. There was no excess noise noticed on-site and outdoors of any of the auto repair 
facilities.  
What We Heard  
In addition to our site survey and checklist with observations, we had informal conversations with 
several business owners or employees that brought additional concerns to light and are 
summarized below:  
24 of 37

--- page 25 ---
TO: 
Rendell Bustos 
DATE: April 30, 2020  
PAGE: 16 
 
▪ 
Where there was time-limited parking most employees described using these spots to park 
their cars all day and described enforcement of time parking being very soft. In areas where 
there was metered parking, people described not being vigilant in paying the meter and 
risking a ticket since there were no other options for parking.  
▪ 
Cars were being left on the street for weeks at time, and some of these cars are inoperable 
vehicles. Without effective enforcement of time-limited parking or a sweep to see if cars 
were siting for more than 2 to 3 weeks, employees described there being less active parking 
available for customers and employees at these facilities. They suggested that the city 
should ramp up enforcement of time-limited parking.  
RECOMMENDATIONS 
Based on our findings described above, our recommendations for code amendments and process 
improvements are outlined below. Some recommendations are similar to the draft 
recommendations staff prepared in 2018, and are noted as such. We see this approach as being a 
hybrid or tiered approach.  
In addition to the recommendations within the categories discussed below, we recommend 
additional outreach to auto repair establishments to continue building trust. Several owners 
had expressed some initial hostility, and/or frustration with our efforts when we first arrived on-site 
citing previous efforts, and were unclear what this re-initiation of efforts was trying to accomplish.  
This mistrust or hesitation comes from prior efforts, (expressed specifically), and likely a fear that 
this effort would threaten the way they currently operate. In order to combat this frustration, we 
suggest conducting at least one to two focus groups in the next 2 to 3 months1, with the goal of 
hearing solutions directly from those people who work in these establishments every day, and 
providing our initial recommendations to them to get their feedback. The neighborhoods that 
should be focused on are Claremont Street/Railroad Avenue, Palm Avenue, and Amphlett 
Boulevard given they have more struggles with the availability of parking and their adjacency to 
residential neighborhoods. A few of the areas to focus on would be: 
▪ 
What are your daily stressors? 
▪ 
What are the obstacles you face? 
▪ 
What are potential solutions or ideas to alleviate the stressors for parking? 
 
1 We can continue to conduct outreach to focused facilities using online tools and video/conference calls 
which would shorten this timeline. If we were to wait to do this in person, the timeline is dependent on when 
the city allows such events to continue in person.  
25 of 37

--- page 26 ---
TO: 
Rendell Bustos 
DATE: April 30, 2020  
PAGE: 17 
 
OFF-SITE/PUBLIC ROW  
1. Business Improvement Districts 
We suggest, if supported by auto repair establishments, implementing business improvement 
districts that could come up with shared parking solutions, and agreements amongst the business 
owners for specific neighborhoods. These types of outside the box solutions were also suggestions 
that the council had in 2018. Several of the businesses had expressed sharing parking as an informal 
agreement. This could be pursued on a broader, neighborhood scale that is managed with clear 
goals and bylaws that are agreed upon with a formal decree by the business association.  
2. Parking Enforcement within the ROW 
There should be stricter parking enforcement on vehicles that look inoperable, and/or have not 
been moved for several weeks. In addition, there should be stricter parking enforcement for 
time limited parking (1-hour, 2-hour), and metered parking. There would need to be 
coordination between the police department, as well as public works department in order for these 
enforcements to be effective. Funding for additional staff time for enforcement would need to be 
discussed interdepartmentally. 
3. Continued Enforcement of Trash/or Other Blockages Within the ROW 
While we did not observe any trash, debris, or and other blockages by cars within the ROW during 
our site visits, the continued safety of people and vehicles in the ROW should be enforced for the 
health and safety of residents and business owners. Regardless of recommendations pertaining 
to grandfathering clauses related to parking requirements, the enforcement of blockages, 
obstructions and/or nuisances within the ROW should continue to be enforced.  
ON-SITE 
1. 
Building Permits for Indoor Auto Repair Lifts 
As described in staff recommendations in 2018, we recommend that the City continue the 
previously established program (prior to the stop in enforcement from 2016 until today) to 
require building permits for existing auto repair lifts to ensure public safety, especially for 
employees of auto repair establishments. The 2018 staff recommendations had an initial period 
of six months to be given for submission of building permit applications. We feel that this timeline 
should be lengthened to a year to ensure adequate compliance, and to afford time for proper 
education and outreach. Currently, as described immediately below, outdoor lifts are not allowed 
under the existing code.  
26 of 37

--- page 27 ---
TO: 
Rendell Bustos 
DATE: April 30, 2020  
PAGE: 18 
 
2. Outdoor Work/Outdoor Auto Repair Lifts 
Currently under Code Section 27.36.030 Conditions of Use, it states that “all production, processing, 
assembly, cleaning, servicing, testing or repair of materials, good or products shall take place within 
completely enclosed buildings unless otherwise indicated herein.” Council’s comments were that 
this provision might be too restrictive, and it would be best to provide flexibility by allowing some 
outdoor use by being clear on how long and what type of service is allowed.  
As described above, we observed 38 outdoor service bays across 12 facilities, indicating that less 
than 10 percent of facilities had outdoor service bays. If the provision stated above regarding 
enforcement of building permits for lifts materialized, it would mean that the 12 facilities would not 
be compliant with this regulation. We understand that outdoor work is something that the city 
does not want. Those facilities would need to remove all service bays, and any outdoor 
structures to comply with the code.   
3.  Parking Requirements for Existing Facilities 
In comparison with auto repair establishments in cities within San Mateo, and Alameda counties as 
well as a few other cities in California, San Mateo’s current parking standard places it at the median 
position, where half of the cities require more spaces, and the other half fewer. It seems that San 
Mateo’s parking standard is reasonable in comparison to other cities. However, as expressed above 
only 18 percent of facilities currently comply with parking regulations. Staff’s earlier assessment 
was the current standard should be retained, but that the regulation should be modified such that 
the service/bay lift should be counted as one of the required parking spaces. Even if the City of San 
Mateo made this change, this would only bring compliance to 21 percent of facilities representing a 
3 percent gain in overall compliance.  
 
In order to assess how changing the modifications to the parking requirements would impact 
overall compliance, we looked at three different scenarios by modifying the parking requirement by 
a reduction in 1) 25 percent, 2) 50 percent and 3) 75 percent. The current parking requirement is 2 
parking spaces plus two for each service bay, and if we were to reduce this requirement by 25 
percent it would be 1.75 parking spaces plus 1.75 for each service bay. If you were to reduce by 50 
percent it would be 1 parking space plus 1 for each service bay. If you were to reduce by 75 percent it 
would be 0.5 parking space plus 0.5 for each service bay.  
 
A 25 percent reduction in the requirement would bring the compliance up to 24 percent or 26 out of 
111 facilities meeting the code. A 50 percent reduction in the requirement would bring the 
compliance up to 42 percent or 46 out of 111 facilities meeting the code. A 75 percent reduction in 
the requirement would bring the compliance up to 51 percent or 56 out of 111 facilities meeting the 
code. Based on this, we recommend the City consider a 50 percent reduction which would 
increase compliance from 18 percent to 42 percent (20 businesses to 46 businesses) as one step 
to increasing compliance.  
27 of 37

--- page 28 ---
TO: 
Rendell Bustos 
DATE: April 30, 2020  
PAGE: 19 
 
Many of the existing auto repair establishments are not able to successfully comply with the 
existing regulations, and there is limited existing space within their facilities and outside their 
facilities to provide parking.  
One additional possibility to take care of this problem is to institute grandfather provisions 
that are written into the current code so that no existing use of land or structure shall be 
considered a nonconforming use solely because of the lack of on-site parking required by this 
article. UPP is exploring options for this grandfather provision and is seeking advice from staff 
on the best course of action for grandfathering.  
4.  Parking Requirements for New Facilities 
 
There are several ways that parking requirements could be dealt with for new facilities. Some of 
these options are described below, with the idea that either some and/or all of the options could be 
chosen. The requirements as written would need to change such that:  
▪ 
There should be some clarification, and potential expansion of the definition of auto 
repair facilities for new facilities. The grandfathering provision detailed above would 
extend to all existing facilities, but for new facilities, there should be different requirements 
for different types of facilities beyond what is existing in the code now. For example, auto 
detailing may not need as many parking spots as a different type of service.  
▪ 
For new facilities that cannot met the current standards they could be required to fill out a 
parking exception and the onus is on the new applicant/sponsor to prove hardship. 
▪ 
In an effort to provide a more flexible way for new facilities to comply with the current 
regulations, we agree with staff’s earlier recommendations for the use of valet parking. 
When operated properly, it would promote the more-efficient use of limited on-street 
parking spaces while providing a flexible way to comply with the required number of 
parking spaces. We recommend the use of a special use permit to allow the permittee the 
use of limited on-street parking spaces in a limited and controlled manner and on a 
temporary and nonpermanent basis.  
▪ 
Another flexible way for new facilities to comply with current regulations is to offer 
property owners the option of paying an in-lieu fee. San Bruno explored the option of a 
parking in-lieu fee for up to 30 percent of the off-street parking spaces required and would 
be in combination with a TDM program. While this program is more appropriate for 
downtown areas, the option of an in-lieu fee can be explored. As discussed previously, the 
current existing compliance with the current standard is 18 percent, so the in-lieu fee 
percentage would need to take that into consideration, as a 30 percent reduction would not 
solve the problem. A reduction of 50-60 percent would seem more appropriate in most 
areas.  
28 of 37

--- page 29 ---
TO: 
Rendell Bustos 
DATE: April 30, 2020  
PAGE: 20 
 
NEXT STEPS 
Once we receive feedback on the proposed recommendations, we can proceed with drafting the 
zoning amendments related to auto repair establishments that best fit the City of San Mateo’s 
needs at this time.  
 
 
 
29 of 37

--- page 30 ---
Auto Repair 
Establishments –
Zoning and Parking 
Regulations
November 15, 2021
Rendell Bustos
Senior Planner, Community Development
30 of 37

--- page 31 ---
Item Agenda
1. Provide background and timeline
2. Provide an update on surveyed conditions
3. Outline potential solutions
4. Receive Direction
31 of 37

--- page 32 ---
Background and Timeline 
2012
•Community concerns 
raised.
2016
•City Council formally 
reviewed this item.
•Staff conducted outreach 
and facilitated a permit 
program for auto lifts.
2018
•June 4, 2018 City Council 
meeting. Direction to 
revise parking ratio and 
prevent forcing 
establishments out of 
business.
2020
•Engaged Urban Planning 
Partners (UPP).
•Updated field survey.
•Code Amendment put on-
hold in April of 2020.
2021
•Resumed this code 
amendment effort and re-
engaged with UPP to 
complete the 
modifications. 
32 of 37

--- page 33 ---

108 active auto repair businesses were identified throughout the City

Less than 20 percent of the 108 facilities conform with current zoning requirements 

Observed Conditions (surveyed between February – March 2020)

Conditions in the public rights-of-way were clear of debris, trash, and no issues of 
major sidewalk blockages

Time-restricted street parking is limited with some metered spaces along Claremont 
St./Railroad Ave. Time-limited parking was observed near, Amphlett Blvd. and Palm 
Ave. areas 

Many cars appeared to have had been parked on streets for an extended amount of 
time

Work Bays used as spillover parking at several businesses
Existing Conditions Survey Findings 
33 of 37

--- page 34 ---
POTENTIAL SOLUTIONS

——— CITY OF ——


--- page 35 ---
Potential Solutions
Parking Requirements
Parking Ratio - Change parking standard to per 
square foot standard versus service bay 
standard
‘Valet’ Parking - Allow business owners the use 
of non-striped onsite areas for parking and 
queuing if such use would not impact the public 
and inhibit safe business operations.
Other Measures
Coordinate with Code Enforcement related to 
nuisance, parking enforcement.
Coordinate with Public Works to explore 
modifications to increase street parking supply.
35 of 37

--- page 36 ---
Requested Direction
1. Are code amendments related to auto repair 
uses still a priority? 
2. If so, what code amendments and/or measures 
would the Council recommend studying further? 
These may include the following:
a. Complete a parking study to establish revised 
parking requirements; and/or
b. Engage with Public Works staff to assess restriping 
and repaving to increase on-street parking supply 
on blocks where parking is limited and/or there is 
increased demand.
36 of 37

--- page 37 ---
Discussion
Rendell Bustos
Senior Planner, Community Development
rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7211
37 of 37