source: packet.pdf
sha256: 748fa538ab9314681e402986a17370666bd9fe53b87eaac83b54a728988e9a60
pages: 68
ocr_pages: 6
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission
January 25, 2022
7:00 PM
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Ramiro Maldonado, Chair
Margaret Williams, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNMENT CODE 54943(b)(3) / AB 361 (2021) –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE
AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: January 25, 2021
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 843 4980 5604
Passcode: 497551
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of November 23, 2021.
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's jurisdiction
that are not on the agenda. Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of 15 minutes
for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's jurisdiction. The
Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the agenda, but shall
refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
STUDY SESSION
2.
Scoping Meeting for the Environmental Impact Report for San Mateo’s General Plan 2040
Receive an informational presentation from staff, accept public comments and provide comments on the scope of
issues and topics that will be evaluated in the Environmental Impact Report for the General Plan Update
3.
Preliminary Application Review Process for Large Projects

--- page 2 ---
Receive an overview of the current pre-application review process for large development applications and
provide direction to staff to streamline and update this process to meet current needs.
4.
Design Review for Large Projects
Receive an overview of the current design review process for large development applications and provide
direction to staff regarding any potential changes to the process.
OLD BUSINESS
5.
Nomination of New Commission Representative to the Civic Arts Committee
That the Planning Commission nominate a representative to the Civic Arts Committee
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting
and can be viewed on the City’s website at www.cityofsanmateo.org.
Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: there are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you will be added to the meeting. All attendees are
muted by default. To speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638- 0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of meeting agenda.
To indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations
to participate in this meeting may contact the Planning Division at planning@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522-7212 .
Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5732
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
January 25, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of November 23, 2021.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Regular Meeting Minutes 11.23.2021
STAFF CONTACT
Mary Way, Administrative Assistant
mway@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7213

--- page 4 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 11/23/21
1
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Ramiro Maldonado, Chair
Margaret Williams, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
City of San Mateo
Regular Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
Tuesday, November 23, 2021
Remote 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
CALL TO ORDER 
This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Bill AB361; in which Brown Act regulations are 
relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
ROLL CALL
Remote: 
Vice-Chair Margaret Williams, and Commissioners John Ebneter, Adam Nugent and Seema Patel
Absent: 
Chair Ramiro Maldonado
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission Regular meetings of October 12, 2021 and 
October 26, 2021. 
Moved:
Ebneter, Seconded: Nugent
Ayes:
Williams, Ebneter, Nugent, Patel
Absent:
Maldonado
Noes: 
None 
PUBLIC COMMENT: None.
STUDY SESSION
2.
Pre-Application Review for a Proposed Five-Story Residential Building at 222 S. Fremont Street (Gateway Terrace 
Project)
Associate Planner Linda Ly presented an overview of the architectural and site design of the proposed project.
Applicant Regan Catanzaro presented a overview of the proposed project with background on various site and 
architectural design elements.
Commissioner Questions: 
Commission asked questions on zoning regulations, objective design standard, trash receptacle placement and 
maintenance responsibility, parking vs. additional units, and communication with labor trades.
Public Comment: 
Richard Hedges likes the location, walkability, public transportation options and would like to see the number of 
units maintained but would prefer a more modern design. 
Ben commented that the downtown history is being destroyed and feels that height transition is not acceptable 
based on the height of this proposed development.

--- page 5 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 11/23/21
2
Laurie Watanuki noted that the proposed architecture does not fits the neighborhood, feels that mass and scale 
could be changed, that parking is insufficient, and amenities of a meeting and fitness center should be added to this 
project. She also noted that a traffic study should be done on 5th and Humboldt streets to address traffic congestion. 
George likes the Mediterranean design, but has concerns about transient uses of property in this building and 
encourages deed restrictions on sales and lease restrictions on rentals for transient residencies. 
Noreen Chui expressed concerns about project impacting the historic nature of neighborhood, about pedestrian and 
driving safety, traffic congestion, and parking impacts.
Commissioners Comments: 
The Commission expressed general support for the project, noting the improved site, landscaping, and architectural 
design, but more work needs to be done with massing and design to reduce impact on neighborhood; provide more 
outdoor amenities for residents; consider moving trash area inside building; project should maximize density; 
include more 2- and 3-bedroom units for families; provide more landscaping; and consider including additional 
bicycle parking.
3.    Pre-Application Review for a Proposed Five-Story Mixed-Use Building at 435 E. 3rd Avenue (PA-2021-021) 
        Senior Planner Rendell Bustos presented an overview of the proposed project including building design, 
        floor area ratio, and off-street parking. 
        
        Applicant Mike Fields presented a more detailed description of the proposed project.
Commissioner Questions: 
Commissioners asked clarifying questions about brick façade, art on site, zoning designation, parking in-lieu fees and 
calculations, commercial linkage fees, sewer capacity, and barriers from maximizing housing capacity.
Public Comments: 
Laurie Watanuki likes the design and had questions about required off-street parking. 
Richard Hedges likes walkability and design in the downtown area and had concerns about parking for residents. 
Olya Derby had questions about building façade.
George Derby likes the design but has concerns about not having off-street parking.
Commissioner Comments: 
The Commission expressed general support, noting that the design fit the area, with some adjustments. 
Commissioners noted questions/concerns about proposed project having no off-street parking, in-lieu fees and 
wanting more information in the parking study. Concern was also noted about housing/commercial ratio imbalance 
on this and other projects and the importance of building housing for downtown viability. 
NEW BUSINESS
3.
New Commission Representative for Civic Arts Committee
CDD Deputy Director Zach Dahl discussed the opening for a Planning Commissioner on the Civic Arts Committee 
and provided information on the role and time commitment. 
This item was continued to the next planning commission meeting. 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
CDD Deputy Director Zachary Dahl provided updates on items for future Planning Commission meetings.

--- page 6 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 11/23/21
3
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 10:27pm.
APPROVED BY:
___________________________________
Margaret Williams, Vice-Chair
SUBMITTED BY:
___________________________________
Mary Way, Administrative Assistant

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 22-5716
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Director 
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
January 25, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Scoping Meeting for the Environmental Impact Report for San Mateo’s General Plan 2040
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an informational presentation from staff, accept public comments and provide comments on the scope of issues 
and topics that will be evaluated in the Environmental Impact Report for the General Plan Update
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo is the lead agency for preparing an environmental impact report (EIR) for the San Mateo General 
Plan 2040 (General Plan Update or project). The project involves a comprehensive update to the City's existing General 
Plan. The General Plan Update is anticipated to be completed by the end of 2023 and will guide the City’s development 
and conservation through 2040. 
State law requires that the General Plan contain at least eight elements: Land Use, Circulation, Housing, Open Space, 
Noise, Safety, Conservation, and Environmental Justice. The content of these elements is outlined in State law. The 
General Plan Update will include new goals and policies, and revisions to current goals and policies, and the land use 
map in the existing General Plan. The General Plan Update will include all State-required elements, and an optional 
element, Urban Design.  
The overall purpose of the General Plan Update is to create a policy framework that articulates a vision for the city’s long-
term physical form and development, while preserving and enhancing the quality of life for San Mateo residents. The key 
components of this project will include broad community goals for the future of the City of San Mateo and specific policies 
and implementing actions that will help meet the goals. The General Plan Update will add new and expanded policy topics 
to address the current requirements of State law, modernize the City’s policy framework, and address land use mapping 
issues and inconsistencies. To achieve the General Plan vision, the City has analyzed three alternatives for ten Study Areas 
that were developed through an extensive public outreach and engagement process. The Study Areas include areas near 
transit; areas where current buildings are aging, vacant, or not maintained; or areas where property owners have 
expressed interest in considering redevelopment of the property. The Study Areas are the locations where the majority 
of growth is projected to occur; however, changes and growth are still anticipated to occur outside of these areas, 
Citywide.  
DISCUSSION:
A Notice of Preparation (NOP) was issued on Wednesday, January 12, 2022 and submitted to the State Clearinghouse, 
responsible and trustee agencies and interested parties and groups, to announce the initiation of the EIR process and to 
solicit comments regarding the scope of issues to be addressed and alternatives that should be considered in the EIR. The 
NOP is included as Attachment 1.

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The purpose of this public meeting is to provide an opportunity for the community to learn more about the environmental 
review process for the General Plan Update and to solicit comments on the EIR scope. Scoping comments should focus on 
issues and alternatives to be studied in the EIR, rather than on preferences for a particular alternative, or on the merits of 
the General Plan Update.  
The EIR will then be prepared based on the scope established during this notice of preparation process and analyze the 
extent to which the General Plan Update and alternatives would result in significant environmental impacts and will 
identify appropriate modifications or mitigation measures to reduce or eliminate these impacts. Issues that have been 
determined to be examined in the EIR thus far include aesthetics, air quality, biological resources, cultural and tribal 
resources, energy, geology and soils, greenhouse gas emissions, hazards and hazardous materials, hydrology and water 
quality, land use and planning, noise, population and housing, public services, recreation, transportation, utilities and 
service systems, wildfire, cumulative effects, and a reasonable range of alternatives. The City has made a preliminary 
determination that the topics of agricultural, forestry, and mineral resources would not require discussion in the EIR. 
Comments in response to the NOP for this project should focus on potentially significant environmental effects that 
the General Plan Update may have on the physical environment, ways in which those effects might be minimized, and 
potential alternatives that should be addressed in the EIR.  The deadline to submit scoping comments on the EIR is Friday, 
February 11, 2022 at 5:00 PM.
NEXT STEPS:
After February 11, 2022, the last scheduled date for the receipt of scoping comments, the preparation of the Draft EIR will 
begin. The Draft EIR is expected to be completed in Spring 2023, followed by a 45-day public review period and further 
hearings on the Draft EIR, Final EIR, and adoption with the General Plan Update. 
The City is currently in the process of engaging with the community and soliciting input on the three different land use and 
circulation alternatives under consideration for General Plan Update.  Review of the land use and circulation alternatives 
by the Planning Commission is scheduled for March 22, 2022 and selection of the preferred scenario by the City Council is 
scheduled for April 18, 2022.  The Alternatives Evaluation Report was published on January 14, 2022 and is posted on 
www.StriveSanMateo.org/work-products. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
No fiscal impacts to taking this action. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Under CEQA Guidelines, determination of the “scope” of an EIR incorporates consultation with responsible agencies, 
trustee agencies, other interested parties and the general public. Once the lead agency has decided that an EIR is required 
for a project, it must send a NOP stating that an EIR will be prepared to each CEQA responsible agency and federal agency 
involved in approving or funding the project, and to each state trustee agency responsible for natural resources affected 
by the project. The lead agency may also consult directly with any person or organization it believes will be concerned with 
the environmental effects of the project. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Notice of Preparation
STAFF CONTACT
City of San Mateo (Lead Agency)
PlaceWorks (City Consultant)
Zachary Dahl, AICP, Deputy Director
Joanna Jansen, AICP, LEED AP, Principal (General Plan Update)
zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org  
Terri McCracken, Associate Principal 
(Environmental Review)
(650) 522-7207

--- page 9 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
General Plan Update 
January 12, 2022 
Page 1 of 6 
Notice of Preparation 
Notice of Preparation 
Environmental Impact Report 
City of San Mateo 
 
Date: 
January 12, 2022 
 
 
 
To: 
 
State Clearinghouse 
 
From: 
 
Zachary Dahl, Deputy Director   
 
State Responsible Agencies 
 
Community Development Department 
 
State Trustee Agencies 
 
City of San Mateo 
 
Other Public Agencies 
 
330 West 20th Avenue 
 
Interested Organizations 
 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Subject: 
Notice of Preparation (NOP) of a Draft Environmental Impact Report (EIR)  
Lead Agency: 
City of San Mateo Community Development Department 
Project Title: 
San Mateo General Plan Update 
 
Notice is hereby given that the City of San Mateo (City) will prepare an EIR for the San Mateo General Plan Update 
(proposed project). Pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Section 15206, the 
proposed project is considered a project of statewide, regional, or areawide significance. The City, acting as the 
Lead Agency, will prepare an EIR to address the potential environmental impacts associated with the project at a 
programmatic level consistent with CEQA Guidelines Section 15168. The program-level EIR will evaluate the 
environmental impacts associated with the broad policies of the General Plan Update and the likely type and 
amount of development allowed within the General Plan horizon of 2040. This EIR will not evaluate detailed, site-
specific projects under the General Plan. An evaluation of project alternatives that could reduce significant 
impacts will be included in the EIR. The proposed project, its location, and potential environmental effects are 
described below. Additional information on the General Plan Update is available at www.StriveSanMateo.org.  
 
Members of the public and public agencies are invited to provide comments in writing as to the scope and content 
of the EIR. The City needs to know the views of your agency as to the scope and content of the environmental 
information that is germane to your agency's statutory responsibilities in connection with the proposed project.  
 
Due to the time limits mandated by State law, your response must be sent at the earliest possible date, but no 
later than the close of the 30-day Notice of Preparation (NOP) review period on Friday, February 11, 2022. If you 
submit comments on the scope of the EIR, you will automatically be added to the City’s distribution list for future 
notices and information about the environmental review process for proposed project. If you do not wish to 
submit comments on the scope of the EIR, but would like to be added to the City’s mailing list, you can submit 
your contact information, including email address with a request to be added to the mailing list. 
 
Please send your written comments to Zachary Dahl, Deputy Director of Community Development, at the address 
shown above or email to zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org with “General Plan Update EIR” as the subject. Public 
agencies providing comments are asked to include a contact person for the agency.

--- page 10 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
General Plan Update 
January 12, 2022 
Page 2 of 6 
Notice of Preparation 
1. Project Location:  
 
San Mateo is located in the San Francisco Bay Area in Northern California. It is bordered by the San Francisco Bay 
and City of Foster City to the east, the City of Burlingame and Town of Hillsborough to the north, the City of 
Belmont to the south, and the Town of Hillsborough and unincorporated San Mateo County to the west. Major 
interstates and State routes include Highway 101 and California State Routes 92 and 82. Figure 1 shows the 
regional setting of the City of San Mateo and the EIR Study Area.  
 
2. Lead Agency Contact:  
Zachary Dahl, Deputy Director 
Community Development Department  
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
(650) 522-7207 
zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
3. Project Sponsor: 
 
City of San Mateo 
 
4. Project Description: 
The City of San Mateo is preparing comprehensive updates to its existing General Plan. The update is expected 
to be completed in 2023 and will guide the City’s development and conservation through 2040.  
 
State law requires that the General Plan contain eight elements: Land Use, Circulation, Housing, Open Space, 
Noise, Safety, Conservation, and Environmental Justice. The content of these elements is outlined in State law. 
The General Plan Update will include revisions to the policies and land use map of the existing General Plan. The 
updated General Plan will include all State-required elements, and an optional element, Urban Design.  
 
The overall purpose of the General Plan Update is to create a policy framework that articulates a vision for the 
city’s long-term physical form and development, while preserving and enhancing the quality of life for San Mateo 
residents. The key components of this project will include broad community goals for the future of the City of San 
Mateo and specific policies and implementing actions that will help meet the goals.  The General Plan Update will 
add new and expanded policy topics to address the current requirements of State law, modernize the City’s policy 
framework, and address land use mapping issues and inconsistencies. To achieve the General Plan vision, the City 
has analyzed three alternatives for ten Study Areas that were developed through an extensive public process. 
The Study Areas include areas near transit; areas where current buildings are aging, vacant, or not maintained; 
or areas where property owners have expressed interest in considering redevelopment of the property. The Study 
Areas are the locations where the majority of growth is projected to occur; however, changes could still occur 
outside of these areas. Figure 2 shows the Study Areas.

--- page 11 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
General Plan Update 
January 12, 2022 
Page 3 of 6 
Notice of Preparation 
FIGURE 1: PROJECT LOCATION & STUDY AREA

--- page 12 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
General Plan Update 
January 12, 2022 
Page 4 of 6 
Notice of Preparation 
FIGURE 2: TEN STUDY AREAS

--- page 13 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
General Plan Update 
January 12, 2022 
Page 5 of 6 
Notice of Preparation 
5. Potential Environmental Impacts of the Project 
The EIR for the proposed project will address the range of impacts that could result from adoption and 
implementation of the General Plan. Below is a list of environmental topics that will be examined in the EIR. 
• Aesthetics 
• Air Quality 
• Biological Resources 
• Cultural Resources 
• Energy 
• Geology and Soils 
• Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
• Hazards and Hazardous Materials 
• Hydrology and Water Quality 
• Land Use and Planning 
• Noise 
• Population and Housing 
• Public Services 
• Recreation 
• Transportation 
• Tribal Cultural Resources 
• Utilities and System Services 
• Wildfire 
 
6. Public Meetings and Workshops 
The City will hold many public workshops and meetings throughout the planning process, as well as several 
meetings of the General Plan Subcommittee, Planning Commission, and City Council, to inform the public and 
interested agencies about the proposed project and solicit feedback on the contents of the proposed General 
Plan Update. Details for each meeting will be made available on the City website and the project website at 
www.StriveSanMateo.org.  
 
The City will also hold a scoping meeting to solicit public comment on the environmental issues to be addressed 
in the EIR. The scoping meeting will be held on as part of the scheduled Planning Commission meeting on Tuesday, 
January 25, 2022, at 7:00 p.m. Due to the State of California’s Declaration of Emergency and Shelter in Place 
Order, all City Council and Commission meetings will be held remotely. In-person attendance is not an option. 
The public can attend the scoping meeting and provide comment virtually using the instructions included in the 
agenda and provided on the City’s website at https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3971/Agendas-Minutes-Public-
Meeting-Portal. 
 
 
 
Date: January 10, 2022       
 
Signature:  
 
 
 
 
  
 
Title: Deputy Director

--- page 14 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
General Plan Update 
January 12, 2022 
Page 6 of 6 
Notice of Preparation 
This page intentionally left blank.

--- page 15 ---
Pik He

STRIVE SAN MATEO

GENERAL PLAN 2040

EIR Scoping Meeting

Tuesday, January 25, 2022

sn


--- page 16 ---
2
StriveSanMateo.org
Purpose of Scoping Meeting
Receive comments from members of the public, organizations, 
and interested public agencies on issues related to the 
physical environment that should be addressed in the 
Environmental Impact Report (EIR).

--- page 17 ---
3
StriveSanMateo.org
Public Scoping Meeting Agenda
» Project Overview 
» EIR Scoping Session
• CEQA Overview
• Program-Level EIR
• EIR Process
• Environmental Topics Addressed in the EIR
• Addressing Environmental Impacts
» Receive Comments

--- page 18 ---
4
StriveSanMateo.org
Welcome and Introductions
» City of San Mateo
• Zachary Dahl, Deputy Director of Community Development
» PlaceWorks – City's Environmental Consultant
• Terri McCracken, Associate Principal
• Allison Dagg, Associate II

--- page 19 ---
GENERAL PLAN SPECIFIC PLANS

Geographic Area

ettsesasaane SERCH RHR EE EHH,

Design Guidelines

@ 2 % 600

Inclusivity Prosperity Resiliency

Ld]
t
s
a
Elements °
i
t
Land Use Circulation ;
Housing Urban Design Z :
Conservation / Open Space / Parks & Rec O :
Safety Noise a! :
a wYTTTTT. TT eeeeeeeeneeeeen®
Diversity Balance LW
a
=

policies and regulations for specific geographic

The General Plan guides future growth and areas of the city,

development. It includes eight elements as
well as a Vision Statement and values that
express the community's vision for the future.

Se eee eee ee 6 oe oe «

A Specific Plan is a customized plan that describes

To learn more about the General Plan Update, visit www,StriveSanMateo.org.

ZONING CODE

Building Type
¢e i B

Building Form

AROS

Use Type

Aa md of m

Parking
Requirements 1 & &

The Zoning Code is the primary tool for implementing
the General Plan and the Specific Plans. It regulates
development citywide and establishes specific rules.

i

STRIVE SAN MATEO

GENERAL PLAN 2040

StriveSanMateo.org


--- page 20 ---
6
StriveSanMateo.org
General Plan: Vision Statement

--- page 21 ---
7
StriveSanMateo.org
General Plan 
Project Area
City of San Mateo

--- page 22 ---
8
StriveSanMateo.org
General Plan Study Area Boundaries

--- page 23 ---
9
StriveSanMateo.org
Where Are We Now and What’s Next? 
2021
2022
2023

--- page 24 ---
10
StriveSanMateo.org
CEQA Overview
» The California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) is the State’s 
primary environmental protection law.
» An informational document:
•
Discloses the potential environmental impacts of projects that have a 
physical effect on the environment;
•
Identifies mitigation measures;
•
Describes feasible alternatives to the proposed project.
» CEQA does not dictate project approval or denial.

--- page 25 ---
11
StriveSanMateo.org
Program-Level EIR
»
An Environmental Impact Report (EIR) is a public disclosure document that includes 
an evaluation of physical impacts to the environment that could occur as a result of 
the implementation of the project based on specific and established criteria. 
»
The EIR is the heart of CEQA and the highest-level environmental review document.  
»
Program-level environmental review documents are appropriate when a project 
consists of a series of actions related to the issuance of rules, regulations, and other 
planning criteria (CEQA Guidelines Section 15168).
»
Does not evaluate impacts of future construction-level projects that are consistent 
with the General Plan 
»
Does allow the subsequent project-level environmental review for future development 
to tier off the Program EIR
»
Streamlines future environmental review procedures

--- page 26 ---
12
StriveSanMateo.org
EIR Process
» This chart summarizes the 
EIR process mandated by 
State Law
» The City of San Mateo 
anticipates additional public 
meetings.

--- page 27 ---
13
StriveSanMateo.org
Environmental Topics Evaluated in the EIR
§ Aesthetics
§ Air Quality
§ Biological Resources
§ Cultural and Tribal Cultural 
Resources
§ Energy
§ Geology and Soils
§ Greenhouse Gas Emissions
§ Hazards and Hazardous Materials
§ Hydrology and Water Quality
§ Land Use and Planning
§ Noise
§ Population and Housing
§ Public Services
§ Parks and Recreation
§ Transportation
§ Utilities and Service Systems
§ Wildfire

--- page 28 ---
14
StriveSanMateo.org
Addressing Environmental Impacts
» Where significant environmental impacts are identified, 
CEQA requires the impact be: 
• avoided
• minimized
• rectified
• reduced or eliminated 
• compensated 
» CEQA permits the General Plan to incorporate mitigation 
measures as goals, policies, and actions that are designed 
to protect, preserve and enhance environmental resources

--- page 29 ---
15
StriveSanMateo.org
Scoping Comments Should Address
» Technical issues to be addressed in the Draft EIR
» Appropriate range of alternatives to evaluate in the Draft EIR
» Potential environmental impacts of the proposed project

--- page 30 ---
16
StriveSanMateo.org
Submitting Scoping Comments
» Provide all comments by Friday, February 11, 2022, by:
• Speaking at tonight’s meeting
• Mail to:
Community Development Department
Attention: Zachary Dahl
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
• Email: zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org with “General Plan Update EIR” as the 
subject line

--- page 31 ---
17
StriveSanMateo.org
Next Steps 
• Accept Scoping Comments
Winter 2022
• Evaluate Potential Impacts
Now through Spring 2023
• Publish Draft EIR
Spring 2023
• 45-Day Public Comment Period for Draft EIR
Spring 2023
• Publish Final EIR with Response to Comments
Fall 2023
• General Plan Adoption/ Final EIR Certification
Fall 2023

--- page 32 ---
STRIVE SAN MATEO

GENERAL PLAN 2040

www.striveSanMateo.org

Awe 44
av ‘i ea
al = e)


--- page 33 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 21-5646
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
January 25, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Preliminary Application Review Process for Large Projects
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an overview of the current pre-application review process for large development applications and provide 
direction to staff to streamline and update this process to meet current needs.  
BACKGROUND:
Public engagement and notification are integral components of the “due process” requirements for the review and 
decision-making associated with development applications. The City of San Mateo (City) has a longstanding practice of 
encouraging public participation in the development review process and providing public notification that exceeds the 
minimums set by state law. The City’s Preliminary Application (Pre-Application) Planning Process was established to 
encourage early public participation in the planning process; familiarize the community with project proposal details and 
solicit comments; and resolve issues prior to planning application submittal, thus reducing controversy and the likelihood 
of an appeal. For large development applications, a neighborhood meeting and Planning Commission Study Session are 
required before a formal Planning Application can be submitted. 
The City’s Pre-Application Process was originally adopted via resolution in 1990 and amended several times with the most 
recent updates in 2008 (Attachment 1). Following adoption of the 2008 Resolution, a Preliminary Planning Application 
Guide (Attachment 2) was created to implement the process.  Since the purpose of the pre-application is to solicit and 
receive early input on conceptual plans that can then be incorporated into the formal application, much less information is 
required for a Pre-Application than is required with a formal Planning Application submittal. 
However, since adoption in 2008, the pre-application process has evolved and become more detailed in its requirements 
of development applications. Applications have been required to go through multiple rounds of reviews to address 
comments and concerns, and provide higher levels of detail in order to proceed to a neighborhood meeting and study 
session to complete the pre-application process. This has resulted in Pre-Application plans that are more complete with 
fully- fleshed out specifics on site plan, building design, materials, color, etc., by the time the neighborhood meeting and 
study session are held.  This shift has also raised Commission and the community expectations about the level of design 
detail that is provided during the pre-app process. 
However, this evolution in requirements to complete a pre-application has resulted in a lengthier process and increased 
costs that an applicant must bear before any public input has been provided. Staff has heard from Planning Commissioners 
and members of the public that they hesitate to provide input that could require significant design changes at the study 
session because the project plans have already gone through multiple rounds of review and the design is significantly 
developed. During a development community forum as part of the Housing Element outreach this past fall, staff heard 
feedback that one of the challenges associated with the City’s development review process is the Pre-Application process

--- page 34 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
and the time and costs required to complete it. The City Council has also provided direction to staff over the past year to 
look for opportunities to streamline and improve the development review process.
 
In other cities around the Bay Area, the pre-application process typically requires submittal of a preliminary plan set with a 
project description, conceptual plans, and conceptual design details, which are reviewed by staff, the community, and the 
decision-making body (i.e. zoning administrator, design review board, planning commission) who then provide input to the 
applicant through a comment letter and/or verbally during a public meeting or study sessions. Generally, a pre-application 
process is a relatively short process that serves to provide early notification to the community and garner early input to set 
expectations for a project’s size, design and scope. It can also serve to identify issues or constraints that merit further 
evaluation during the formal application process.  
To confirm that the Pre-Application Process for large projects is consistent with the overarching intent of providing early 
public notification and facilitating early input on conceptual development plans that can then be incorporated into the 
formal application, staff is seeking input from the Commission on the following questions:
1.
Level of Detail
What level of detail is appropriate for the plans and information that are presented at a pre-application study 
session? Should project design plans be more conceptual or provide a high level of detail? 
2.
Meeting Format
What is the appropriate format for a Planning Commission pre-application study session? Should it be similar to 
the public hearing format when a formal development application is under consideration, or should it be more 
informal and conversational with more free-form discussions between the applicant, members of the public and 
the Commission.  
3.
Public Notification and Engagement
To ensure that the public remains informed throughout the development review process, should there be 
additional noticing and/or a second neighborhood meetings as part of the formal planning application process? 
Next Steps
Based on the input provided by the Planning Commission, staff will draft revisions to the Preliminary Application Planning 
Process Policy and schedule it for consideration by the City Council at a future date. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The costs associated with the development of updated pre-application procedure documents would be covered under the 
Community Development Department’s existing operating budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because the Planning Commission is providing direction to staff and is 
not taking action at this time. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – 2008 Pre-Application Process Resolution
Att 2 – Preliminary Planning Application Guide
STAFF CONTACT
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager
msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org 
650-522-7203

--- page 35 ---
174
RESOLUTION NO.
98 (2008)
RECEIVED
ADOPTION OF A PRE - APPLICATION PLANNING PROCF/ AUG 28
A 8: 21i
RESOLVED, by the City of San Mateo, California, that:
OFFICE
OF CITY CLERK
WHEREAS, this City Council wishes to encourage public partiS } 4A . CA
the planning process and provide notice exceeding the requirements orSState
Law; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo has had a longstanding history of
citizen involvement in all civic activities; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo hereby establishes procedures far
exceeding minimum legal requirements recognizing the public'
s right and
responsibility
to become informed of matters affecting their community; and
WHEREAS, pre -application neighborhood meetings are intended to
familiarize the surrounding property
owners
and property owners, residents,
business owners and interested persons with details of the proposed project
and to solicit comments from attendees; and
WHEREAS, pre -application neighborhood meetings provide an
opportunity for project applicants
to resolve issues prior to submittal of a
planning application, thereby reducing the public controversy and the potential
for an appeal;
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED, that:
1. 
The pre -application process set forth in Exhibit A is adopted;
2. 
Resolutions 20 ( 1999), 40 ( 1996), and 127 ( 1990) are hereby
rescinded.
3. 
The City Council finds that these provisions
do not constitute a
project as defined and regulated by the California Environmental Quality Act
CEQA) in accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15378.
4. 
A certified copy of this resolution shall be filed with the City Clerk.
5. 
The Planning Commission shall review the noticing procedures
one
year after adoption by the City Council.
CQmole grraom
MAYOR
DINGINAL

--- page 36 ---
EXHIBIT A
PRE —APPLICATION
PLANNING PROCESS
1. The following
pre -application processes shall be followed:
a. Formal Pre -application
Process
i. Applicability. The Formal
Pre -application
Process shall apply to the
following projects:
1. New residential projects over 20 units in size;
2. New nonresidential projects or additions
over 10,
000 sq. ft. or
subject to a negative declaration
or EIR;
3. Projects involving
a zoning reclassification, planned development
or general plan amendments: and
4. Projects where the applicant has requested the formal pre -
application process.
ii. Timing. Formal Pre -application Process shall
occur prior to submittal of a
planning application, except in case when a meeting
is determined to be
necessary by the Chiefof Planning
or designee.
iii. Noticing. Notice shall be provided to all owners
and tenants ofproperty
within 1,
000 feet of the subject property and to neighborhood association(
s)
which include the area of the project site and the United Homeowners
Association. Email notice shall be sent to all homeowner'
s
associations.
Notice shall be given a minimum of ten calendar days prior to the
neighborhood meeting and a minimum of ten calendar days prior to the
Planning Commission
study session. Placard(
s) 
shall be posted on the
project site a minimum
of ten calendar days prior to the Planning
Commission study session. The placard(
s) 
shall include the Planning
Commission meeting date, location and purpose, permits requested by the
applicant, a brief description of the project, and any other information
as
required by the Chief of Planning or designee. The placard(
s) 
shall be at
least 18 inches by 24 inches, and shall be posted
on
a highly visible
portion of the project site.
iv. Neighborhood Meeting.
1. Meeting Conduct. A neighborhood meeting shall be held and
conducted by the project applicant. A member of the City of San •
Mateo Planning Staff will attend this meeting
as an observer.
2. Meeting Day, Time and Location. Meetings
should normally be
held on a weeknight, during the early evening hours and should be
held at the project site or in a public
venue ideally located within
the project vicinity. Meeting dates, times, and locations should not
conflict with City meetings ( such as City Council or Planning
Commission meetings).
v. Planning Commission
Study Session. Following the neighborhood
meeting, a Planning Commission Study Session will be held. Noticing and

--- page 37 ---
conduct of that meeting shall be done in accordance with applicable City
of San Mateo Municipal
Code and Planning Commission adopted by laws
and procedures.
b. Informal Pre -application Meeting Process
i. Applicability. The Informal Pre -application Process shall apply to all
planning applications, other than projects involving a single family
dwelling, and those projects listed in I., 
a. above under Formal Pre -
application Meeting Process. Cellular Telephone Antennae and Public
Convenience
and Necessity planning applications shall be exemptfrom
the Informal Pre -Application Meeting process
unless otherwise required
by the Zoning Administrator
due to the potential environmental impacts.
ii. Timing. The Informal Pre -application Process shall
occur prior to
submittal of a planning application, except in a case when a meeting is
determined to be necessary
by the Chief of Planning
or designee.
iii. Noticing. Notice shall be provided to all owners
and tenants of property
within 500 feet of the subject property and to neighborhood association(
s)
which include the area of the project site and the United Homeowners
Association. Notice shall be given
a minimum of ten calendar days prior
to the neighborhood meeting.
iv. Neighborhood Meeting.
1. Meeting Conduct. A neighborhood meeting shall be held and
conducted by the project applicant
2. Meeting Dav, Time and Location. Meetings should normally be
held on a weeknight, during the early evening hours and should be
held at the project site, in City or School District facilities, or
similar public
venue ideally located within the project vicinity.
Meeting dates, times, and locations should not conflict with City
meetings ( such as City Council or Planning Commission
meetings).
v. City Involvement. City staff will not normally be present at the
neighborhood meeting. No Planning Commission study session is
required.
c. Pre -Application Process for Single Family Dwelling Planning Applications
i. Applicability. This pre -application
process shall apply to all projects in R
zones requiring planning applications, including:
1. Second floor additions greater than 50 square feet
2. Substantial demolition of single-
family
dwellings
3. Secondary units
4. Variances
5. Fence Exceptions

--- page 38 ---
ii. Timing. This pre -application process shall occur prior to submittal of a
planning application,
iii. Noticing. Notice shall be provided to all owners and tenants of property
within 500 feet of the subject property and to neighborhood association(
s)
which include the area of the project site and the United Homeowners
Association. Notice shall be given
a minimum of ten calendar days prior
to the neighborhood meeting.
iv. Neighborhood Meeting.
1. Meeting Conduct. A neighborhood meeting shall be held and
conducted by the project applicant.
2. Meeting Day, Time and Location. The meeting should be held at a
convenient location to the neighborhood. The meeting may be an
open house
at the project site or an alternative
site located near the
area. The meeting
must be held during convenient
hours to
encourage
attendance by surrounding residents. The meeting
should be held in the early evening hours on weekdays
or late
morning
or afternoon hours on weekends.
v. City Involvement. City staff will not normally be present at the
neighborhood meeting. No Planning Commission study session is
required.

--- page 39 ---
Resolution adopted by the City Council of the City of
San Mateo, California, at a regular meeting held on
September 2, 2008, by the following vote of the Council:
AYES: 
Council Members LEE, EPSTEIN, MATTHEWS
GROTTE
and GROOM
NOES: 
NONE
ABSENT: NONE
SEAL) /s/ NORMA GOMEZ, City Clerk

--- page 40 ---
1 
The Large Project Preliminary Planning Application Guide 
 
City of San Mateo Planning Division 
Community Development Department 
330 West 20th Avenue 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
planning@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7212 
Revised: JULY 1, 2021 
 
 
This application guide contains information about the City of San 
Mateo large project preliminary planning application process (“the pre-
app”), including the neighborhood meeting and Planning Commission 
Study Session. 
 
The San Mateo City Council and Planning Commission have established a preliminary planning 
application review process to ensure that there is resident involvement early in the land 
development process. The process is intended to familiarize the surrounding property owners 
and residents, business owners, neighborhood associations and interested persons with the 
details of the proposed project. It also serves to obtain input from interested groups and the City 
Planning Commission early in the development process.  If the proposed project qualifies as a 
project listed below, the large project pre-application neighborhood meeting and Planning 
Commission Study Session process is required pursuant to City Council Resolution # 98 (2008) 
“Adoption of a Pre-Application Planning Process.” 
 
 
New residential projects over 20 units in size. 
 
 
New non-residential buildings of 10,000 square feet or more. 
 
 
Additions of 10,000 square feet or more to existing non-residential buildings. 
 
 
Projects involving a Zoning Reclassification, Planned Development application or 
a General Plan Amendment, or subject to a Negative Declaration or an 
Environmental Impact Report under the California Environmental Quality Act. 
 
 
Projects where the applicant has requested the formal pre-application process. 
 
For projects not listed above, a neighborhood informational meeting is still required. Please 
consult with the Planning Division for additional information on the process for this meeting.  
The large Project 
Preliminary Planning 
Application Guide 
“The Pre-App”

--- page 41 ---
2 
The Large Project Preliminary Planning Application Guide 
 
 
The Process 
 
STEP 1: SUBMIT PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION MATERIALS & FORM TO THE 
PLANNING DIVISION 
 
The following items must be submitted to the City of San Mateo Planning Division for the 
preliminary planning application:  
• The attached Planning Application submittal form. This application must be signed by all 
current property owner(s).  
• Preliminary title report that is no more than a year old, showing the current property 
owner(s).  
• The planning application deposit, which is $25,000.00 (effective from July 1, 2021 to June 
30, 2022) 
• Written Description of the Proposed Project on the cover sheet of the plan set.  For multi-
family residential projects, please indicate whether the applicant wants to subdivide the 
property, including the creation of condominium units, with the formal planning 
application. A Tentative Parcel Map or Tentative Map is required.  
• A digital submittal is preferred through a single PDF of the plans with a file size no larger 
than 10 MB. If a hard copy submittal is made, provide 6-8 bound and folded sets of full-
size project plans, including CD or flash drive (will not be returned) with a single PDF file 
of the plans no larger than 10 MB. 
• For Projects Requesting to Utilize State Density Bonus Law: Written Request for a State 
Density Bonus pursuant to Government Code Section 65915 and San Mateo Municipal 
Code. The Planning Application submittal shall include a detailed Residential Project 
Density Bonus Request Letter and Cost Reduction Evidence that identifies all requested 
“incentive(s) or concession(s),” “waivers or modifications to development standards,” 
and/or use of State Density Bonus law parking standards, and provides all the required 
items pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code “Application Procedure.” State Law Section 
65915(k) defines an “incentive or concession” as a reduction in site development 
standards or a modification of zoning code requirements or architectural design 
requirements that … results in identifiable and actual cost reductions, to provide for 
affordable housing costs.” The City requires the submittal of documentation that there 
will be a “cost reduction” as a result of the requested incentive or concession in order to 
make the required finding that the requested incentive/concession results in a cost 
reduction (see State Code Section 65915(d)(1)).  
 
STEP 2: COORDINATE WITH THE PROJECT PLANNER TO SCHEDULE THE FORMAL PROJECT 
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE, TIME & LOCATION 
 
The purpose of the Neighborhood Meeting is for the applicant to explain the proposal to the 
surrounding property owners, residents, business owners, neighborhood associations, and 
interested persons and receive their input.  This meeting should accomplish three main goals:

--- page 42 ---
3 
The Large Project Preliminary Planning Application Guide 
 
1. Establishment of a positive dialog between the development team and the surrounding 
property owners and residents, business owners, neighborhood associations and 
interested parties. 
2. Allow for project modification early in the process based on feedback. 
3. Avoid further delays during public hearings due to neighborhood opposition. 
 
As project applicant, you host and conduct the meeting; the project planner will be present as a 
resource only.  The following pages outline the steps involved in this process.  
 
The project planner will work with you to select a date, time, and location for the neighborhood 
meeting based on the following requirements:  
• Meetings must be held on Monday through Thursdays starting at either 7:00 p.m. or 7:30 
p.m. and held at the project site, in a City or School District facility, or a similar public 
venue located within the project vicinity with sufficient parking and ADA access.  
 
Meetings cannot be held on the following dates: 
• Evenings of City Council or any City Commission meetings. Please check the city’s website at 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?nid=60 and 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?nid=192 for the City Council, Public Works 
Commission, Parks and Recreation Commission, Community Relations Commission, 
Sustainability Commission and Planning Commission meeting dates.  
• Legal holidays, common religious holidays or during the week of Thanksgiving and 
December 15th-January 1st. 
 
The project planner will work with you to coordinate a public notice for the neighborhood 
meeting. Typically, the City will mail this notice, as the City generally prefers that a single notice 
be mailed that contains both the Neighborhood Meeting date and Planning Commission study 
session date. Should separate notices be necessary, the applicant is responsible for the 
preparation and mailing of the Neighborhood Meeting notice, with the City of San Mateo 
responsible for the preparation and mailing of the Planning Commission Study Session meeting 
notice. The notices must be mailed a minimum of 10 calendar days prior to the meeting. 
 
The meeting notice(s) are required to be mailed to the following groups on the City’s official 
public noticing lists: 
• Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project 
site;  
• The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood 
Associations, local utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning 
projects; and, 
• The interested parties list which includes interested individuals who contacted the City 
regarding this site or project or requested to be added to the project notification list.

--- page 43 ---
4 
The Large Project Preliminary Planning Application Guide 
 
STEP 3: PREPARE AND HOLD THE PROJECT NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING: 
 
The applicant is responsible for bringing presentation-sized graphics of the conceptual project 
plans, including at minimum an existing and proposed site plan and exterior elevations of all sides 
of the proposed buildings.  
 
The applicant will prepare the meeting sign in sheet. Please have all attendees sign in to ensure 
a complete record of attendees, including City staff and all members of the project team. 
Attendees are asked to provide their email and/or mailing address for future notices. A member 
of the applicant’s team must take detailed notes from the meeting and prepare a Meeting 
Summary. The project planner will provide you with a sample Meeting Summary to replicate.  
 
The meeting consists of the following schedule: 
• The project planner will typically open the meeting by describing the purpose of the 
meeting and introducing the project applicants.  The planner will remain throughout the 
meeting to answer any questions regarding development standards and the planning 
application review process. 
• The applicant will then manage the remainder of the meeting.  The applicant’s 
presentation on the proposed project should include a description of the purpose of the 
development, the way the design has responded to various site planning and aesthetic 
issues and important design features.  The applicant should then open the discussion to 
the residents, being available to answer questions or take comments. If questions are 
raised related to the application process or City development regulations that are more 
appropriately answered by the planner, he or she will answer those questions.  
• Once discussion has finished, the Planning staff member will typically close the meeting 
by describing the next steps in the planning process. 
 
STEP 4: PREPARE AND DISTRIBUTE A WRITTEN SUMMARY OF THE MEETING.   
The applicant must prepare and distribute the written summary of the meeting within one week 
of the meeting. The Meeting Summary should include a list of attendees, the major issues raised, 
any questions and answers discussed during the meeting.  Please send the draft meeting 
summary and the sign-in sheet to the project planner who attended the meeting for final editing.  
The City will post the meeting summary on-line on the City’s website.  The applicant is responsible 
for emailing the meeting summary to all the meeting attendees who provided an email address.  
The applicant is responsible for mailing the Meeting Summary via USPS to the mailing address 
provided for those attendees without email. 
 
STEP 5: THE PLANNING COMMISSION STUDY SESSION 
In addition to the neighborhood meeting, a pre-application Study Session with the Planning 
Commission is required.  This will help identify issues that the Commission wants addressed prior 
to the formal hearing process for your project.  Here is how it works: 
• The Project Planner will typically set a date for the Study Session at the time the 
neighborhood meeting date is set.  Typically, a project will be reviewed by the 
Commission approximately four weeks after the neighborhood meeting. Planning

--- page 44 ---
5 
The Large Project Preliminary Planning Application Guide 
 
Commission meetings are held virtually on the second and fourth Tuesdays of each month 
at 7:00 p.m. 
• Staff will prepare a staff report analyzing significant issues and will distribute this report 
to you and the Commissioners prior to this meeting. 
• Please be prepared to make a short (5-8 minutes) presentation and to respond to 
questions from the Planning Commission.  The Commissioners will provide individual 
comments on the project for future consideration and revision.  
  
 
NEXT STEP: FORMAL PLANNING APPLICATION SUBMITTAL 
 
 
After the completion of the large project preliminary planning application review process, a 
formal planning application may be submitted. Please see the separate Planning Application 
guide book for submittal requirements and forms.

--- page 45 ---
6 
The Large Project Preliminary Planning Application Guide 
 
Planning Application Form 
 
City of San Mateo Planning Division 
330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA  94403-1388 
Ph: (650) 522-7212 
  
Applicant Information: 
Name: 
 
Mailing Address: 
 
City, State, Zip: 
 
Daytime Phone: 
 
Email: 
 
Property Owner Information (If different than applicant): 
Name: 
 
Mailing Address: 
 
City, State, Zip: 
 
Daytime Phone: 
 
Email: 
 
 
Please provide the above information for each additional property owner or applicant, if applicable, on a 
separate sheet of paper. 
 
Project and Property Information 
 
Project Address(es): 
 
Assessor Parcel Number(s):  
 
 
Brief Project Description:

--- page 46 ---
7 
The Large Project Preliminary Planning Application Guide 
 
Property Owner Authorization 
 
I certify that as the property owner, I authorize the filing of this planning application. I understand that pursuant 
to the City of San Mateo Municipal Code, conditions of project approval are binding upon both the applicant 
and the property owner(s). I agree to implement the Planning Application Conditions of Approval subject only 
to the right to object at public hearing on this application. 
 
 
Property Owner’s Statement 
I hereby certify that I am the owner of record of the property described in the above Project Location and that I 
approve of the requested action herein. I have read the above Deposits and Maximum Job Cost/Charges and 
understand that the Planning charges reflect the actual staff time spent and other costs associated with the 
processing of this application(s). I understand that my initial deposit is an estimate of these charges and not a 
fee, and I agree to abide by the billing policy stated below. I also understand that overdue invoices are subject 
to San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.64.020 Penalties and Interest. 
 
 
 
 
Property Owner’s Signature 
 
Date 
 
 
 
Print Property Owner’s Name 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Property Owner’s Signature 
 
Date 
 
 
 
Print Property Owner’s Name 
 
 
 
I certify that I am authorized by the property owner(s) to file this Planning Application and submit, herewith, 
this authorization. I understand that pursuant to the City of San Mateo Municipal Code, conditions of project 
approval are binding upon both the applicant and the property owner(s).  I agree to implement the Planning 
Application Conditions of Approval subject only to the right to object at public hearing on this application. 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Agent’s Signature 
 
Date

--- page 47 ---
8 
The Large Project Preliminary Planning Application Guide 
 
NOTES: DEPOSITS AND MAXIMUM PLANNING APPLICATION COSTS/CHARGES 
1.    City Council Resolution directs that Planning charges reflect the actual costs of staff time spent on each project 
and all direct costs (including but not limited to noticing, copying charges, and consultant staff time) associated 
with the application.  Staff time is charged at the rate of $275.00 per hour (through 6/30/2022) for all planning 
applications. The applicant is responsible for paying 100% of the costs of all staff/consultant time and all costs 
incurred pursuant to any appeal. 
       Upon submittal of your project, a deposit in the amount indicated in the City Fee Schedule is required for this 
application at the time of the submittal.  If the total deposit is not expended when the final decision is made on 
your project, the balance will be refunded to you.  If 70% or more of the initial deposit is expended during 
processing, you will receive an invoice for an additional deposit.  All outstanding invoices must be paid prior to any 
neighborhood meeting or study session.  Prior to submitting a new application, the applicant is required to pay all 
past due fees.   
2.    The applicant shall pay the actual cost of any consultant services required to process a planning application.  
Consultants are used by staff for the preparation of environmental documents, project design review, traffic 
studies, parking studies or historic resource analysis. 
3.    SMMC 3.64.020 Penalties and Interest. Any fee imposed by this chapter shall be due and payable within thirty 
days after the bill is mailed by the City. The fees shall be delinquent if not paid within said thirty days. Any person 
who fails to remit any fee within the time required shall pay a penalty of ten percent of the amount due, per 
month to a maximum of three months, plus interest at the rate of 1-1/2 percent per month, or fraction thereof, 
computed from the delinquent date of the fee until and including the date of payment.  
PROPERTY LOCATION 
Project Address(es): 
Assessor Parcel Number(s): 
PROPERTY OWNER'S CONTACT INFORMATION FOR FUTURE INVOICES 
Name: 
Mailing Address: 
City:                                                                                                    State:                                            Zip: 
Email:                                                                                                 Phone: 
PROPERTY OWNER'S SIGNED STATEMENT 
I hereby certify that I am the owner of record of the property described in the above Project Location and that I 
approve of the requested action herein.  I have read the above Deposits and Maximum Planning Application 
Costs/Charges and understand that the Planning Division charges reflect the actual staff time spent and other costs 
associated with the processing of this application(s).   I understand that my initial deposit is an estimate of these 
charges and not a fee, and I agree to abide by the billing policy stated above.  I also understand that overdue 
invoices are subject to San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.64.020 Penalties and Interest. 
 
 
 
Property Owner’s Signature 
 
Date 
 
 
 
Print Property Owner’s Name 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Property Owner’s Signature 
 
Date 
 
 
 
Print Property Owner’s Name

--- page 48 ---
Items 3 & 4: 
Pre-Application and 
Design Review Process
Planning Commission, January 25, 2022
Manira Sandhir, AICP
 Planning Manager
Community Development Department
1

--- page 49 ---
Pre-Applications: Background and Current Process
• Adopted in 1990s, most recent amendments in 2008
• Intent
• Early input and engagement 
• Resolution of Issues
• Prevent Appeals
• Large Development Projects 
• Required Neighborhood Meeting and Planning Commission Study Session
• Residential Projects Over 20 units
• Non-residential Projects over 10,000 square feet or CEQA Neg Dec/EIR
• Rezoning, General Plan Amendments, Planned Development
• At Applicant Request
2

--- page 50 ---
Proposed Process to Address Challenges
• Challenges and Concerns
• Multiple Rounds of Reviews Prior to Commission Study Session
• Lengthy Processing times (6 months to 2 years)
• Difficult to provide design feedback on well-developed plans
• Proposed Process
• Preliminary Reviews for Pre-Applications (no resubmittals or completeness 
requirements)
• Reduces Processing Times Significantly (3-4 months)
3

--- page 51 ---
Pre-Application Study Session Questions
1. Level of Detail: Should plans be more conceptual or provide a high level of 
detail?
2. Meeting Format: What is the appropriate format for a Planning Commission pre
-application study session? 
3. Public Notification and Engagement. Should there be additional noticing and/or 
a second neighborhood meetings as part of the formal planning application 
process? 
4

--- page 52 ---
Design Review – Background and Current Process
• Adopted in 1996
• Intent
• Ensure Superior Quality of Design
• Focus on Urban Design, Site Planning, Architecture and Landscape Design
• Third-party Consultant Review Required for Large Projects
• Large Development Projects 
• Residential Projects - 6+ Units or 3+ stories
• Commercial Projects - 10,000 square feet or larger
• Projects with Unique Design Circumstances
5

--- page 53 ---
Design Review – Background and Current Process
• Challenges
• Lengthy Processing times
• Significant effort at pre-application stage, prior to Planning Commission input
• State requires Objective Design Standards for Housing Projects
• Proposal
• Conduct third-party review either during pre-application stage or with formal application at 
Planning Commission direction
6

--- page 54 ---
Design Review Study Session Questions
1. Should third-party design review be required for all larger projects, or the 
thresholds updated?
2. Should the Commission provide direction at the study session for conducting a 
third-party review during the formal application process? Under what 
circumstances?
7

--- page 55 ---
Next Steps
• Draft Updated Resolution(s)
• Schedule for City Council Adoption
• Prepare/Update Implementation Materials and Internal Procedures
• Report back to Commission
8

--- page 56 ---
Thank You / 
Questions
Manira Sandhir
Planning Manager/Community Development 
Department
msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org 
Zachary Dahl
Deputy Director/Community Development 
Department
zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org 
9

--- page 57 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 22-5713
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
January 25, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Design Review for Large Projects 
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an overview of the current design review process for large development applications and provide direction to staff 
regarding any potential changes to the process. 
BACKGROUND:
In 1996, the City Council adopted a resolution that updated the design review process for certain types of development 
projects seeking land-use entitlements from the City (Attachment 1). The updated process included the requirement that a 
third-party consultant provide input on urban design, site planning, architectural and landscape design for larger projects.  
Projects subject to this requirement include any residential project with six or more units, or three or more stories; any 
commercial project 10,000 square feet or larger; and any project with unique design circumstances as determined by the 
Zoning Administrator. Since 2004, the City has retained the services of Cannon Design Group to provide third-party design 
reviews of projects that met the above listed criteria. 
While design review can be conducted in any number of ways, it is often a review function that can be completed by 
internal Planning staff with appropriate support and training. Pursuant to the attached resolution, third-party review in the 
City has been conducted since 1996, sometimes both at the pre-application and formal application stage with a focus on 
resolving all third-party consultant comments prior to study sessions or public hearings before the Commission. Due to 
challenges regarding the time and costs associated with such third-party review, the Planning Division’s design review 
process is evolving to conduct preliminary design review internally during pre-application and then complete the third-
party design review during the formal application review. In this model, the third-party design review would factor in the 
Planning Commission’s pre-application input as part of the review, and the report would be provided to the Planning 
Commission at the public hearing.  
In more recent years, due to a number of state housing laws, the use of objective design standards has also become more 
prevalent, limiting the ability of local jurisdictions to impose discretionary design review requirements. Introducing 
objectivity in design standards further enables internal design review without the need for third-party consultants. 
With this background on the design review process, staff is seeking input from the Commission on the following questions:
1.
Should the City continue to require third-party design review for all larger projects? Should the thresholds for 
when a project requires third-party design review be updated? 
2.
Should the Commission provide guidance at the pre-application study session on whether or not a third-party 
design review is necessary during the formal application process? Under what circumstances should this third-

--- page 58 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
party review be required?
3.
At what stage of the development review process (pre-application or formal planning application) should the third-
party review be conducted? 
Next Steps 
Based on the input provided by the Planning Commission, staff will draft revisions to the Design Review Process and 
schedule it for consideration by the City Council at a future date. 
 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The costs associated with the development of updated pre-application procedure documents would be covered under the 
CDD’s existing operating budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 –Design Review Process for Certain Development Projects Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager
msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org 
650-522-7203

--- page 59 ---
aa ee ee oe
Hohe. hs : aad

RESOLUTION NO. 67 1996
NNO. SF (1998) Hay 0 1039 AN “Sp
AMENDING THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
DESIGN REVIEW PROCESS FOR CERTAIN GPEIQE AF Cl; CLEKY
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS CHY fable.

(gdb se pe, toe we
wadiagliaprcs, DOLL,

RESOLVED, by the Council of the City of San Mateo,
California, that:

WHEREAS, this Council wishes to assure that larger projects
in the City of San Mateo have a superior quality of design; and

WHEREAS, the City adopted Resolution No. 7 (1991) which
established the City's procedures for design review; and

WHEREAS, this Council wishes to amend the design review
process;

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DETERMINED and ORDERED that:

1. A design review process for the City of San Mateo is

~ adopted as follows:

A. Design Review Consultant. Design review shall be
conducted by a professional consultant under contract with
the City, who can demonstrate expertise in urban design,
site planning, architecture and landscape architecture as it
relates to a particular project.

B. Applicability. Design review be conducted on all
residential development projects containing six or more new
units, all commercial development projects with 10,000 or
more square feet of new space, all residential projects of
three stories or greater, or any other project, which the
Zoning Administrator determines that because of unique
design circumstances (e.g. unusual design solution, critical
location), requires design review.

C. Scope. All aspects of the development project's
site layout, architecture and landscaping, shall be
considered in this review. Consultants shall follow design
guidelines and adopted City policies in their review. The
development project's aesthetic and functional qualities as
well as its relationship to neighboring properties and uses
shall be considered.

D. Timing. The applicant may choose to initiate the
design review process either at the pre-application phase or
after submittal of an application. Every attempt should be


--- page 60 ---
made to resolve design issues early in the design review
process.

E. Authority. The design review consultant shall
receive direction from staff, shall review the project with
staff and prepare written comments for review and
consideration by the applicant, staff and any required
reviewing body. The consultant shall also attend meetings
with the applicant and reviewing bodies to explain design
recommendations. However, more than one review of a
development project may be required when significant changes
are made to a development project. The review and approval
or disapproval of the project shall be at the discretion of
any approval body which has jurisdiction over the
development project.

2. The Comprehensive Fee Schedule related to fees for

design review shall remain in full force and effect.

3. The Council finds that none of the provisions of this

resolution will have a significant effect.

4, A certified copy of this resolution shall be filed with

' the City Clerk.

from the date of its adoption.

ATTEST:

5. This resolution shall become effective sixty (60) days

\ J
Sma. Aim
- ‘Nana CLERK :

DesigRev.Res


--- page 61 ---
Resolution adopted by the City Council of the

City of San Mateo, California, at a regular

meeting held on JUNE 3, 1996, by the following

vote of the Council members:

AYES: _Council Members.LEMPERT, HILL,
YATES, MACK and GUMBINGER

NOES: NONE

ABSENT: NONE

EACITY CLRK\A GENDASQND-QTR.96\6-3-96. END


--- page 62 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 21-5584
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
January 25, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Nomination of New Commission Representative to the Civic Arts Committee 
RECOMMENDATION:
That the Planning Commission nominate a representative to the Civic Arts Committee 
BACKGROUND:
As part of the Art in Public Places ordinance approved in July 2005, the Civic Arts Committee (CAC) was established in 
2008. The CAC is an advisory board to the City Council and is charged with implementing the City’s Art in Public Places 
program. The duties of the CAC are established in Chapter 23.60 of the San Mateo Municipal Code (Art in Public Places) 
and is comprised of one ex-officio member of the City Council, one member of the Planning Commission nominated by the 
Planning Commission, one representative of the business community nominated by the Chamber of Commerce, an 
architect nominated by the local chapter of the American Institute of Architects, a member of City Arts nominated by that 
organization, and a professional in an arts related field also nominated by City Arts. All members of the CAC are to be 
appointed by the City Council. 
The CAC holds six regular meetings per year, with the meetings scheduled on the second Monday of every other month 
from 4:00-5:30 PM. For this year (2022), the CAC’s regular meetings are scheduled for January 10, March 14, May 9, July 
11, September 12 and November 14. The Guidelines for the Art In Public Places and the Administrative Process, which are 
included in Attachments A and B, provide additional information about the process and procedures for reviewing and 
approving new artwork that are administered by the CAC.
The Planning Commission’s current representative is Chair Ramiro Maldonado, who was appointed by the City Council in 
November 2018. Chair Maldonado has indicated he would like to relinquish this role and allow another member to 
represent the Commission on the CAC. Thus, staff is requesting that the Planning Commission nominate a new 
representative to fill this role. This nomination would then be formally confirmed by the City Council. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
No Impact 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.

--- page 63 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Guidelines for the Art In Public Places 
Att 2 – Art In Public Places Administrative Process
STAFF CONTACT
Zachary Dahl, AICP, Deputy Director
zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7207

--- page 64 ---
1 
City of San Mateo Civic Arts Committee 
Guidelines for The Art In Public Places 
Implementing Chapter 23.60 of the City of San Mateo Municipal Code 
 
 
 
In accordance with Chapter 23.60 of the City of San Mateo Municipal Code, the City of San Mateo Civic 
Arts Committee is charged with implementing the City’s Art in Public Places program.  This includes 
approving individual requests to install art as part of private development projects, as required by Chapter 
23.60.   
 
The Committee shall also make recommendations to the City Council regarding use of funds which are 
paid in-lieu of providing art work as part of private development projects.   
 
The following guidelines shall be used by the Civic Arts Committee in evaluating public arts as part of 
private development projects, and in the use of in-lieu funds.  However, from time to time the Guidelines 
may be subject to amendment by a vote of the Civic Arts Committee. 
 
1. Public Art Criteria: 
 
a. Criteria for Artwork: Criteria to be used when considering approval of artwork, either as part 
of a private development project or acquisition of artwork through the use of in-lieu funds, 
shall include but not be limited to the following: 
 
• 
Inherent Artistic Quality:  The assessed aesthetic merit of the piece as a work of art, 
independent of other considerations. 
 
• 
Context of Artwork with Site: Works of art must be compatible in scale, material, form, 
and content with their surroundings. Consideration should be given to the architectural, 
historical, geographical and social/cultural context of the site. 
 
• 
Media: All forms of visual art may be considered. Works may either be portable or 
permanently attached. 
 
• 
Permanence: Due consideration shall be given to the structural and surface soundness, 
and to inherent resistance to theft, vandalism and weathering. 
 
• 
Ability to Maintain: Significant consideration shall be given to the cost and amount of 
ongoing maintenance and/or repair anticipated, and the ability to provide adequate 
maintenance. 
 
• 
Public Safety and Accessibility: Each work shall be evaluated to ensure that it does not 
present a hazard to public safety and complies with all applicable building codes and 
accessibility requirements.  
 
• 
Diversity: The Arts Commission is committed to acquiring art works that are reflective of 
diverse cultural communities and perspectives. To that end, the Commission shall 
actively seek artwork from artists of diverse racial, sexual, and cultural identities. The 
program shall also strive for diversity in style, scale, media and numbers of artists 
represented 
 
• 
Feasibility: Proposed objects shall be evaluated relative to their feasibility and convincing 
evidence of the artist’s ability to successfully complete the work as proposed. Factors to 
be considered include, but are not limited to: project budget, timeline, artist’s experience, 
soundness of materials, city approval requirements, and level of community support.

--- page 65 ---
San Mateo Civic Arts Committee Guidelines 
 
 
January 20, 2009 
 
C:\Users\hstewart\OneDrive - City of San Mateo\Civic Arts Committee\1-Admin & Committee Procedures\Guidelines for Art In Public Places.docx 
2 
• 
Duplication: To assure that the artwork will not be duplicated, the artist will be asked to 
warrant that the work is unique and an edition of one unless stated to the contrary in the 
contract. 
 
b. Site Criteria: Prior to approving a site for an artwork, either as part of a private development 
project or acquisition of artwork through the use of in-lieu funds, the Civic Arts Committee 
shall take into consideration the following factors: 
 
• 
Visibility and public access 
• 
Public Safety 
• 
Relationship of proposed artwork to existing or future architectural features, natural 
features and urban design. 
• 
Future development plans for area 
• 
Overall program goal or concept 
• 
Landscape design 
• 
Relationship of proposed artwork to existing art works within the site vicinity 
• 
Environmental impact 
 
c. Inter-Departmental Coordination: Location of public art on public property or in any way 
affecting public property shall require review and comment by the affected City department.  
For example, public art to be placed in a City park shall require review and comment by the 
City’s Parks and Recreation Department.   
 
2. Artist Selection Criteria:  
 
a. Criteria: When recommending that in-lieu fees be used to commission a work of art or 
purchase a work of art, the Civic Arts Committee will select artists on the basis of their 
qualifications, as demonstrated by the judged quality of their past work and appropriateness 
of their artistic expression, professional experience, or specific proposal for a particular 
project, and the assessed ability of the Artist to successfully execute the project within the 
project timeline, as determined by the Arts Commission in its sole discretion.  Other 
considerations include the artist’s current work load and/or the number of artworks by that 
artist in the Civic Art Collection. Consideration shall be given to local artists; however, the 
Civic Arts Committee is not limited to the use of local artists.  
 
b. Ineligible Applicants: The following persons are ineligible for Civic Arts Commission or 
purchase of their work based on a recommendation by the Civic Arts Committee:   
 
• 
Civic Arts Commissioners and members of their immediate family. 
• 
Elected or Appointed city officials and members of their immediate family.   
• 
City of San Mateo staff and members of their immediate family.  
 
 
3. Artist Selection Methods:  Art or Artists may be selected by the following means: 
 
a. Direct Purchase: An existing artwork is purchased 
 
b. Open Competition: The commission is advertised and project guidelines published. All 
professional artists may participate with possible limitations based upon geographical or other 
eligibility criteria. Upon review of materials, a single artist may be selected, or a limited 
number of finalists will be paid an honorarium to prepare a specific site proposal and/or 
attend an interview with the selection panel.

--- page 66 ---
San Mateo Civic Arts Committee Guidelines 
 
 
January 20, 2009 
 
C:\Users\hstewart\OneDrive - City of San Mateo\Civic Arts Committee\1-Admin & Committee Procedures\Guidelines for Art In Public Places.docx 
3 
c. Limited Competition: Artists are considered for a commission by invitation only. Names of 
artists to be invited to apply are generated by Civic Arts Committee. Information to be 
submitted includes, but is not limited to the following: 
 
• 
Project description and goals 
• 
Project parameters and scope-of-work 
• 
Application deadline and project 
• 
Timeline 
• 
Application procedure and submittal requirements 
• 
Selection procedure 
• 
Criteria for selection of artist and/or artwork 
• 
Geographic restrictions for residency of artist, if any 
• 
Budget 
 
4. Amendment:  This document can be amended as necessary by a vote of the Civic Arts Committee.

--- page 67 ---
Q:\CDD\Civic Arts Committee\Program Document Templates\Art In Public Places Admin Process.doc 
Page 1 of 2 
Last Rev. 2/12/16 
City of San Mateo 
Art in Public Places Program 
Administrative Process 
 
 
In 2005, in order to "promote the general welfare through balancing the community's physical growth and revitalization and its 
cultural and artistic resources", the San Mateo City Council passed an ordinance establishing the Art in Public Places Program.  
San Mateo's ordinance calls for a 0.5% building permit fee to be used directly by the developers to commission and install their 
own art in publicly accessible places within projects that are valued at or greater than $3 million, or to provide the City the 
required in‐lieu fee that then is reserved for City acquisition, installation and maintenance of public art. 
 
The Civic Arts Committee (CAC) was established in 2008 as an advisory board to the City Council to implement the Art in Public 
Places (AiPP) program. The CAC shall carry out the duties established by Chapter 23.60 of the Municipal Code (Art in Public 
Places), and follow the established Guidelines for the Art in Public Places.   
 
This administrative process guideline provides information, for both project developers and related City staff, of the basic steps 
and responsibilities defined in and in support of the implementation of the ordinance.   
1. Initial Applicability Assessment  
A) Projects Subject to Fee  
1) All commercial development projects and multi‐family projects with a building permit valuation of $3 million dollars 
or more; 
(a) Except when the work authorized by the project approval involves less than a substantial reconstruction of an 
existing building. “Substantial reconstruction” for the purposes of this section means work the estimated 
building permit valuation of which exceeds 50% of the replacement value of the existing building based upon 
construction costs at the time of project approval.  
B) Planning for Art Inclusion 
1) Project managers should assess the likelihood of art obligation based on the project size.  
2) The inclusion of public art should be considered early in the planning process to assure the appropriate space and 
development requirements will be available. 
(a) This requisite is also emphasized with a Building Condition of Approval as part of the Planning Application 
process. 
C) Project Compliance Choice 
1) Notice of Applicability 
(a) This tool will be utilized by AiPP program staff to notify the project manager of their financial obligation to 
public art, and requests the project manager to identify the method by which the project plans on meeting its 
obligation: 
(i) Installing developer solicited and Civic Arts Committee approved artwork in a manner satisfactory to the 
community development director or his/her delegated staff, 
(ii) Payment of in‐lieu art fees to the Art in Public Places Fund, or 
(iii) Post a financial security in an amount equal to the acquisition and installation costs of an approved 
artwork, in a form approved by the City Attorney. 
(b) Project managers may choose to spend less than the financial obligation directly on the art.  However, the 
balance of the program obligation after the installation of the art must be paid to the Art in Public Places Fund. 
2) AiPP program staff will inform the Building Division regarding this project’s requisite for ordinance compliance. 
2. Project Approval Process 
A) Civic Arts Committee Approval 
1) Project managers will communicate with AiPP program staff to request approval for their proposed project be 
placed on the CAC agenda. 
(a) It is expected that the project will plan ahead in sufficient time to present their project at a regularly scheduled 
CAC meeting.   
(b) Exceptions to that schedule are on a case by case basis and must be requested with sufficient time to arrange 
an alternative date.

--- page 68 ---
Q:\CDD\Civic Arts Committee\Program Document Templates\Art In Public Places Admin Process.doc 
Page 2 of 2 
Last Rev. 2/12/16 
2) Proposal and presentation materials for the CAC meeting must be provided to AiPP program staff no later than 5 
days prior to the scheduled meeting. 
(a) Proposals must include the following information: 
(i) Preliminary sketches, photographs, or other documentation of sufficient descriptive clarity to indicate the 
nature of the proposed artwork, which may include the request to provide samples of materials or 3D 
renderings or models;   
(ii) An appraisal or other evidence of the value of the proposed artwork, including acquisition and installation 
costs; 
(iii) A basic project timeline; 
(iv) A brief biography of the artist; 
(v) A brief artist statement describing the selected or commissioned piece; 
(vi) Preliminary plans containing such detailed information as may be required by the community development 
department to adequately evaluate the location of the artwork in relation to the proposed development, 
and its compatibility with the proposed development, including compatibility with the character of 
adjacent conforming developed parcels and existing neighborhood if necessary to evaluate the proposal; 
and 
(vii) A narrative statement to be submitted to the community development department to demonstrate that 
the artwork will be displayed in an area open and freely available to the general public, or otherwise 
provide public accessibility in an equivalent manner based on the characteristics of the artwork or its 
placement on the site. 
(b) Proposal materials must be provided by the applicant in PDF format for electronic distribution, models or 
materials can be brought directly to the meeting.  
(c) Applicants should request of staff any access to technology as part of their presentation at time of proposal 
materials submittal. 
3) The CAC will utilize the criteria defined in the Guidelines for the Art in Public Places to assess the art proposal and 
inform their approval decision. 
4) The decision of the CAC is subject to a 15‐day review period by the City Council, and then becomes final. 
(a) During this review period, any person may appeal the decision to the City Council, who shall conduct a hearing.  
The decision of the City Council shall be final. 
3. Project Completion  
A) In accordance with Municipal Code Section 23.60.050, full compliance of the defined requirements must be met prior to 
the issuance of the project’s Certificate of Occupancy. 
B) AiPP Program Staff Compliance Review 
1) The development project manager will regularly communicate the status of the project with AiPP program staff, 
providing information and status changes in relation to any significant delays or project changes. 
2) Upon notification from the project manager that the installation is complete and ready for review, AiPP program 
staff will: 
(a) Make a site visit to confirm that the installation was completed as proposed. 
(b) Review the City’s property records to assure related building permits were issued and signed off as Final. 
(c) Request and review financial documentation of project expenditures, including copies verifying proof of 
payment. 
(i) The expenditures must be equal to or greater than the program obligation. 
(ii) If the expenditures do not meet the obligation threshold, AiPP program staff will notify the project 
manager of the remaining balance to be paid to the Art in Public Places Fund to fulfill the obligation. 
1. The expenditures are not complete until the City receives the payment. 
(d) Confirm receipt of the original recorded copy of the ‘Notice of Public Art Maintenance Requirement’ that was 
fully executed and recorded with the San Mateo County Recorder. 
C) Notice of Completion 
1) Upon meeting all completion requisites, AiPP program staff will issue a Notice of Completion for the project. 
(a) Copies of this Notice will also be provided to the Building Division and Planning Division for project records. 
2) The Building Division will also include AiPP program staff as one of the required City signatures confirming 
completion, which will then allow them to issue the Certificate of Occupancy.