--- page 1 ---
Date:
Fri, 1 Aug 2025 9:03:48 PM (UTC)
Sent:
Fri, 1 Aug 2025 9:01:55 PM (UTC)
Subject: ALPR Technology in the News and Resources for Partner Agencies and the Public
From:
info@ncric.net
To:
Stephan Casazza <casazza@cityofsanmateo.org >;
Dear Partner,
 
 
Last week, a news story was released titled “California cops are breaking surveillance laws. Who’s going to stop
them?” at https://sfstandard.com/2025/07/23/california- police-sharing-flock-license-plate-data. Based on
the data that the author of the story presented, no federal agency personnel had access to California law
enforcement agencies’ ALPR systems. Authorized state and local law enforcement personnel used the systems
under their authority, but they used federal case numbers for joint investigations with the federal agency
acronym as a reference number associated with their research.
 
 
Local and state law enforcement personnel, including analysts, use ALPR data daily as a pointer system to help
locate subjects of investigation, victims of crime, and witnesses. ALPR data is only one of many systems that
provide state and local law enforcement personnel working joint violent crime and major crime investigations
with the potential location of the subject(s) that they are attempting to locate for active criminal cases. 
Under SB 34, state and local law enforcement personnel can’t share ALPR  information with federal law
enforcement personnel, as they are not part of a “public agency” which is defined as “the state, any city,
county, or city and county, or any agency or political subdivision of the state or a city, county, or city and county,
including, but not limited to, a law enforcement agency.” (Civ. Code, § 1798.90.5) State and local law
enforcement personnel working joint investigations with federal agencies can share data from other sources,
as long as the information sharing complies with SB 54. (See the links below for the California Department of
Justice's guidance on SB 34 and SB 54)
 
 
This 
 SB34 ALPR Presentation 31JULY2025.pptx may be saved and edited to provide public presentations
on ALPR technology. We also have NCRIC policies at https://ncric.ca.gov/privacy- and-policy-documents/ and
additional resources at https://www.theiacp.org/projects/automated- license-plate-recognition to help you with
any future conversations regarding ALPR technology.
 
 
At the NCRIC/NC HIDTA, we comply with SB34 and SB54. Only California law enforcement agencies may access
the ALPR data through our Single Sign On (SSO) System, . No Federal or out of state law enforcement agencies
have access to the ALPR system and no authorized law enforcement user or agency may access the ALPR
database for the sole purpose of immigration enforcement. In gathering, sharing, and storing information, the
NCRIC complies with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, including but not limited to, to the extent
applicable, the California Values Act (Government Code Section 7284 et seq.). The NCRIC will, consistent with
Section 7284.8 (b) work to ensure that databases are governed in a manner that limits the availability of
information therein to the fullest extent practicable and consistent with federal and state law, to anyone or
any entity for the sole purpose of immigration enforcement.
 
 
Thank you for your support and please let us know if you have any questions by contacting us at

--- page 2 ---
dutyofficer@ncric.ca.gov.
 
 
Mike Sena
Executive Director
Northern California High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area
Northern California Regional Intelligence Center
Attachment Link(s):
SB34 CA DOJ Memo 2023-DLE-065.pdf (5 pages)
This Information Bulletin provides guidance to California state and local law enforcement agencies
(collectively California LEAs) regarding the governance of Automated License Plate Recognition
(ALPR) information to ensure that the storage, collection, sharing, and use of this information is
consistent with California law.
SB54 CA DOJ Memo 23-01-cjis5.pdf (4 pages)
This Information Bulletin (IB) provides updated guidance to California state and local law enforcement
agencies (collectively, California LEAs) regarding the governance of databases under Senate Bill (SB)
No. 54 (De León; 2017-2018 Regular Session) (“the Values Act” or SB 54) and supplements the
previous IB 18-10-CJIS. Specifically, this IB provides updated guidance regarding specific databases to
ensure information is limited for immigration enforcement purposes to the fullest extent practicable and
consistent with federal and state law. California LEAs are strongly encouraged to review and update their
existing database governance polices consistent with this guidance and that in IB 18-10-CJIS.
Link(s) will expire on 8/1/2026
To remove yourself from this mailing list, Click here