source: packet.pdf
sha256: 9a17953f71b8a96cfe46f6cf3186921f9e29fc9f47566572e40485c4d7b220f8
pages: 34
ocr_pages: 6
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commission
August 11, 2021
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Adam Loraine, Chair
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair
Clifford Robbins
Rafael Reyes
Susan Rowinski
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM
GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: August 11, 2021 Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 889 6199 1699
Passcode: 708836
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure regular meeting of July 14, 2021.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to Speak"
form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be referred to
staff for further review.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
Transit-Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan - Introduction
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, acting as the City of San Mateo’s Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory
Committee, receive an informational update on the Transit Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan and
provide feedback on the draft community engagement plan.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1 of 34

--- page 2 ---
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website by the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Commission meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. To indicate you want
to provide public comment, when the item of interest is open for consideration, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon press * 6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact Public Works Office at (650) 522-7300 or kaplan@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 34

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
File ID: 2018 - 21-4977
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
August 11, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure regular meeting of July 14, 2021.  
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes of the July 14, 2021 meeting 
3 of 34

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission  
July 14, 2021 
7:00 PM 
 
Remote Meeting 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS  
Adam Loraine, Chair  
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair 
Clifford Robbins 
Rafael Reyes 
Susan Rowinski 
MINUTES 
CALL TO ORDER 
  
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call 
 
Remote:  Chair Loraine, Commissioners Narita, Robbins, and Rowinski.  Commissioner Reyes was absent and 
excused.   
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
  
1. Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes - Approval  
 
Motion to approve the minutes of June 9, 2021.  Motion passed 4-0. 
 
Moved:    Rowinski, Seconded:  Robbins 
Ayes:       4 - Narita, Robbins, Rowinski, and Loraine 
Noes:       None 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Bry commented on the new 28th Avenue opening asking if there can be a separated bicycle lane on the 
underpass. She said it is not safe to bicycle on the street with the speed and volume of vehicles in this area, as it 
transitions from a 2-lane road to a 4-lane road.  She continued to say that many folks think the sidewalk can be 
used not only for pedestrians, but for bicyclists, scooters, strollers, and children on starter bikes, and that is 
asking a lot of people to share a sidewalk going in two different directions.  She suggested that the City prioritize 
pedestrians and bicyclists with a pedestrian thoroughfare and a separate bike lane. 
 
Drew commented on the Burlingame/Caltrans project on 82/El Camino Real Roadway Renewal with a strong 
argument that the City of Burlingame should make a presentation to the S&I Commission or Council and do a 
neighboring city update on this project.  The project extends about 2/3 mile into San Mateo to E. Santa Inez and 
should be extended to First Avenue or Crystal Springs Road. Staff and Commission are urged to extend an 
invitation to Burlingame as there should be outreach to the San Mateo residents in the vicinity of this project and 
feel San Mateo should have some visibility and input. 
 
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a “Request to Speak” 
form.  State law prevents the commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda.  Your comments may be referred to staff 
for further review. 
 
4 of 34

--- page 5 ---
NEW BUSINESS  
 
2. 2020 Rail Corridor Transportation Management Association - Annual Report 
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner, Paul Krupka, Transportation Consultant, and John Ford, 
Executive Director from Commute.org. provided a presentation to the Commission to receive an update on the 
2020 Rail Corridor Transportation Management Annual Report and make a motion to recommend City Council 
acceptance of the report. 
 
Public Comment.  No speakers. 
 
Commissioners discussed the item with a consensus to make two motions and add an additional comment, 
separate from the motions, stating that Commissioners would like to be included in meetings with the Planning 
Commission on future decisions related to the TMA trip counts.  
 
Motion to recommend City Council acceptance of the 2020 Rail Corridor Transportation Management Annual 
Report. 
 
Moved:    Robbins, Seconded: Rowinski. 
Ayes:       4 - Narita, Robbins, Rowinski, and Loraine 
Noes:       None 
 
Motion to recommend that Council request the TMA continue to include qualitative analysis along with its future 
trip counts and future Rail Corridor Reports. 
  
Moved:    Rowinski, Seconded: Narita. 
Ayes:       4 - Narita, Robbins, Rowinski, and Loraine 
Noes:       None 
 
3. Clean Water Program Update 
Deryk Daquigan, Engineering Manager, made a presentation to the Commission to receive an update on the 
Clean Water Program. 
 
Public Comment.  No speakers. 
 
Commissioners discussed the item and encouraged staff to continue to review options for potable water use.  
Time permitting, staff will also try to give periodic updates to the Commission on the Clean Water Program, and 
as an alternative, will add additional information to the City website. 
 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENT FROM COMMISSIONER AND STAFF 
 
Commissioner Narita asked for clarification on addressing questions coming from the public on items not on the 
agenda.  Director Mitch explained that it is a violation of the Brown Act to comment or answer questions on 
items not on the agenda, but staff takes detailed notes and if the public commenter gives contact information, 
staff will contact via email. 
 
Chair Loraine encouraged folks to look at www.Commute.org and www.smcsustainability.org for information 
on drought, water use, and air quality. 
5 of 34

--- page 6 ---
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Meeting adjourned at 9:45 PM 
 
Agendas and background material are posted on the City’s website www.cityofanmateo.org at least 72 hours preceding each 
Commission meeting.  Any supplemental material distributed to Commissioners after the posting of the agenda will be available for 
public review at City Hall, City Manager’s office. 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this 
meeting may contact the Public Works Department at (650) 522-7300.  Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the city to 
make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting. 
 
6 of 34

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
File ID: 21-4878
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
August 11, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Transit-Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan - Introduction
RECOMMENDATION:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, acting as the City of San Mateo’s Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory 
Committee, receive an informational update on the Transit Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan and provide 
feedback on the draft community engagement plan.
BACKGROUND:
The City was awarded approximately $150,000 from the Fiscal Year 2019-20 Transportation Development Act (TDA) Article 
3 grant to fund the Transit-Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan (Plan). The Plan will assess the full pedestrian 
path of travel within a one half-mile radius of the City’s three Caltrain stations and other high-quality transit stops. By 
evaluating deficiencies in pedestrian access to the transit stops and identifying and prioritizing recommended 
improvements, the Plan will form the basis for creating safe, comfortable walking routes to transit for all ages and abilities. 
Following a competitive RFP process, the City entered into an agreement with Fehr & Peers on April 5, 2021, to assist the 
City in developing the Plan.
Project Scope and Schedule
City staff and the consultant team developed a scope of work including the tasks below to result in the completed Plan 
within approximately one year.

Inventory Facilities and Existing Conditions – The consultant team will review existing transportation and safety 
conditions and relevant planned projects within the study area to identify issues and opportunities for improving 
the pedestrian path of travel to transit. A series of maps and charts will be developed to display existing conditions 
in an easily digestible manner for outreach efforts.

Community Outreach and Engagement – The engagement process aims to engage with underrepresented 
populations and educate the community about the Plan’s goals and potential impacts. The outreach plan is 
expected to include more traditional workshop events in addition to active engagement efforts including a walk 
audit. 

Recommended Projects and Prioritization – Staff and the consultant team will utilize findings from the existing 
conditions review and community outreach to develop a list of recommended projects. Evaluation criteria will be 
developed to prioritize the recommended projects followed by planning-level cost estimates for each project. A list 
of potential funding sources for implementation will be drafted.

Draft and Final Transit-Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan - A draft Plan compiling all deliverables will 
be presented to the Commission and City Council in early 2022 for review and feedback. Comments from public 
meetings will be incorporated into a final Plan that is anticipated to be presented for adoption in early summer 
2022.
7 of 34

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Staff and the consultant team plans to present the prioritized list of recommended projects and a brief update on progress 
to date at the December 2021 Commission meeting. 
Community Engagement Plan
Stakeholder interviews were recently conducted with representatives from communities in San Mateo including the Latino 
Collaborative, Youth Leadership Institute of San Mateo, and seniors to inform the community engagement plan and ensure 
input from underrepresented populations are included in the Plan. The consultant team will present the draft community 
engagement plan including findings from these stakeholder interviews. Staff requests Commission feedback on the 
proposed community engagement plan. 
Following this meeting, staff and Commission’s feedback will be incorporated into a final Community Engagement Plan 
outlining outreach for the project, including engagement events, promotional materials, and schedule. Community 
engagement is expected to begin in August 2021. Findings from the community engagement process will be used to 
develop a list of recommended projects aimed at improving the pedestrian path of travel to transit.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds in the TOD Pedestrian Access Study Project for this work (46m003). The City’s total budget for 
the project is approximately $150,000.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Draft Community Engagement Plan 
STAFF CONTACT
Nicolette Chan, Assistant Transportation Planner
nchan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7326
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
8 of 34

--- page 9 ---
SAN MATEO TRANSIT-ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT (TOD) PEDESTRIAN 
ACCESS COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT PLAN 
The Community Engagement Plan provides a clear path to inform and develop a successful TOD 
Pedestrian Access Plan by engaging early and often, targeting outreach for underrepresented 
demographics, and providing a range of engagement activities to solicit feedback. We recommend 
the following Community Engagement Plan to ensure the final TOD Pedestrian Access Plan reflects 
community priorities. The engagement process is designed to achieve the following outcomes: 
1. The community knows what a TOD Pedestrian Access Plan is and understands the goals 
and potential impacts of the plan.   
2. Community engagement activities reach and celebrate the voices of populations typically 
underrepresented in the planning process*, including: 
• 
People who have not previously participated in planning processes 
• 
The Latinx community 
• 
Low- and moderate-income households 
• 
Vulnerable users such as seniors and youth 
3. The community sees their input in the final TOD Pedestrian Access Plan.  
*These key groups were identified based on historic patterns of exclusion and recognition that 
infrastructure that serves our most vulnerable users, serves us all. Feedback received during the San 
Mateo General Plan engagement phase identified the Latinx community, specifically, as a key 
demographic often  left out precluded the planning process. 
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT PLAN 
In order to achieve our project and engagement goals, Fehr & Peers and Urban Planning Partners 
conducted interviews with key stakeholders in the City of San Mateo. Based on outreach from 
previous planning processes and discussions with City staff, we focused our interviews with three 
distinct interest groups within the community: seniors, youth, and the Latinx community. We spoke 
with key representatives with experience and advocacy for their respective community group. Our 
interviewees and their affiliations are listed below: 
Interest 
Group 
Interviewee and Affiliation 
Interview Date 
Seniors 
Vince Siminitus, Aging and Retirement Activist 
July 7, 2021 
Monika Lee, Chair of the San Mateo Senior Citizens Commission 
July 15, 2021 
Youth 
Adam Wilson, Program Manager at Youth Leadership Institute 
(YLI) San Mateo; 
Alheli Cuenca, Bay Area Director of Programs at YLI 
July 15, 2021 
Latinx 
Community 
 
Frances Lobos, Community Health Planner Co-Chair, Diversity 
& Equity Council  
Maria Lorente-Foresti, Director, Office of Diversity and Equity 
July 12, 2021 
9 of 34

--- page 10 ---
Page 2 
KEY TAKEAWAYS 
Each interview provided valuable insight and strategies for how to best reach and elicit 
participation from participants. Essential feedback from each stakeholder group representative(s) 
that directly informs our overall community engagement plan is outlined below. The feedback from 
each key stakeholder group was invaluable in determining the type, time, and agenda for an event 
or activity. 
Senior Community 
• 
Late afternoon and early evening meetings on weekdays are best for this group  
• 
Including a recognizable and well-known individual in the senior community as part of the 
meeting agenda is a great way to ensure greater attendance  
• 
While some interactive meeting-types can be fun, most seniors feel most comfortable with a 
community meeting presentation and break-out groups of their peers. Make sure facilitators 
speak clearly, loudly, and all instructions are easy to read is also essential in these settings.  
• 
The best way to promote events for seniors is through The (San Mateo) Daily Journal, 
NextDoor, and building lobby message/announcement boards.  
• 
Getting to and from the Hillsdale Shopping Center is an area of particular concern for many 
seniors; in particular the nearby pedestrian passageways are seen as unsafe 
Youth Participants  
• 
Concerns over safety at bus stations and walking even short distances for programs and 
activities  
• 
Hillsdale Shopping Center is a good place to find youth congregating 
• 
Engaging with San Mateo High School directly; could align with back-to-school activities 
• 
Providing incentives for participation is key  
• 
Youth value equity, social justice, and healthy communities – frame the plan with these 
values 
• 
Monday nights are a not preferred by youth 
Latinx Community 
• 
Virtual meetings/events will be better for the Latinx community (lower vaccination rates, 
higher sickness and death rates among middle-aged Latinos)  
• 
Greater attendance and reception if the events are sponsored or done in partnership with 
an existing and trusted community group or organization  
• 
Facebook seems to be the best place to reach older Latinx community whereas other social 
media (TikTok, Instagram) are best for younger generation  
• 
Making sure information is accessible in multiple languages and that the event is easy and 
straightforward to access  
• 
Evening sessions are typically best (not during the 9-5 workday) and Tuesday/Thursday 
evenings are usually most successful 
10 of 34

--- page 11 ---
Page 3 
All stakeholders expressed confusion with the term “TOD” and suggested that we use a less 
technical term for outreach purposes. We recommend using “San Mateo Walks to Transit” as the 
primary header on all outreach materials. The full plan name “San Mateo Transit-Oriented 
Development Pedestrian Access Plan” would be introduced in smaller text.   
11 of 34

--- page 12 ---
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT PLAN  
Outreach Methods 
Who we’re reaching 
Senior 
Community Youth 
Latinx 
Community 
Notes 
SM Daily Journal Ad 
x 
 
 
Will complete this if we can get a free ad or low-cost ad  
Project Webpage 
 
 
 
A project webpage hosted on the City’s website will provide information about the 
project and upcoming outreach events, serve as a landing page for the survey link, 
and reach the broader community within San Mateo. 
NextDoor 
x 
 
 
Announcement for Community Meeting as well as survey QR code and link.  
Flyers 
 
x 
x 
Virtual flyers (message boards, social media—see below); Physical flyers with 
survey QR code and link around Hillsdale Shopping Center, Downtown businesses, 
Caltrain stations, SamTrans bus stops/stations, building announcement boards, 
school announcement boards. Flyers will be translated into Spanish. 
Email Blast + Listserv 
+ Text Blast 
x 
x 
 
Utilize City’s existing Transportation Projects and Planning listserv as well as Senior 
Commission listserv of interested parties/newsletters and YLI text blast to San 
Mateo participants. Email blast will be translated into Spanish as necessary.  
Local Interest Group 
Meetings (almost all 
virtual) 
x 
x 
x 
Announcements and brief attendance at up to eight existing meetings potentially 
including: San Mateo County Diversity and Equity Council, Bay Area Community 
Health Advisory Council, San Mateo County Immigrant Services, San Mateo 
County Suicide Prevention Committee, Latino Families Group (at SMHS), YLI Fall 
Cohort Orientation/Training, Senior Commission, Office of Education and Safety 
Training Traffic Assessment, Pride Center, and San Mateo County Civic 
Engagement Training. If requested, meeting visit can be conducted in Spanish. 
Groups will be given the survey link and asked to distribute the survey to their 
networks. 
Social Media 
(Instagram, Facebook) 
 
x 
x 
City of San Mateo social media channels on Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook 
(including Public Works, Library, Parks & Recreation, SMPD). Potential: 
SamTrans/Caltrain Instagram, Twitter, Facebook; Diversity and Equity Council 
Facebook. Social media posts will be translated into Spanish. 
12 of 34

--- page 13 ---
Page 5 
 
Engagement Activities 
Who we’re engaging 
Senior 
Community Youth 
Latinx 
Community 
Event Materials and Location 
Community Meeting1 
x 
 
 
Downtown Main Library (Room with courtyard), presentation; translation and 
interpretation services; breakout group questions and prepped facilitators; poster 
board maps, stickers, markers, feedback cards; food/snacks. A Spanish interpreter 
will be available to host a Spanish-only breakout group if needed. This will be 
advertised on promotional materials. 
Map Survey2 
 
x 
 
Survey will prioritize areas of concern for the community. Survey will be available in 
Spanish. 
Pop-Up Surveys3 
 
x 
x 
One each at Hillsdale Shopping Center, Downtown San Mateo, Latinx-community 
grocery store or faith-based event (e.g., Mass). 
iPads with survey, poster board with map, markers, and stickers (as needed) 
(availability TBD) 
1Community Meeting: The current plan will be to hold an in-person, indoor/outdoor event at the Main Library in Downtown San Mateo. 
However, depending on public health guidelines leading up to the event, there is a possibility the meeting will be held virtually. The meeting 
will include a presentation with background context on the project purpose, desired outcomes, and primary questions for discussion. The 
attendees will be separated into 3-4 breakout groups (depending on total attendance) and be asked more specific questions about their 
experience in San Mateo within the study area. Using maps, stickers, and markers, the group facilitator will capture key information on the map 
as well as through notetaking. If the meeting is held virtually, we will utilize screen sharing and virtual tools to the same effect. The attendees 
will come back to a large group for closing thoughts and Q&A. Potential: Senior advocate/local guest speaker to incentivize attendance. 
2Map Survey: To best capture direct feedback on areas within the study area, UPP/F&P will create an interactive map survey to be taken online. 
The survey will include an educational introduction and will touch on areas of greatest concern and personal experience as well as a rank-choice 
‘wish list’ section that details out the different types of safety and pedestrian improvement opportunities as part of this plan. The survey will ask 
optional demographic information to best understand the groups we are reaching and be offered in both English and Spanish. The survey link 
will be distributed through a QR code on sidewalk decals and flyers (see outreach strategies above). 
13 of 34

--- page 14 ---
Page 6 
3Pop-Up Survey: To increase youth participation in the survey, UPP/F&P will do pop-up events/canvassing at the Hillsdale Shopping Center as 
well as part of Downtown San Mateo (San Mateo Central Park and/or Caltrain station, as available) with iPads for individuals to complete the 
survey. 
KEY QUESTIONS FOR COMMUNITY MEMBERS 
1. What are your biggest barriers to walking to transit in San Mateo? 
2. What specific streets (within the study area) could have a better pedestrian experience? Why? 
3. Which streets, walkways, or connections (within the study area) would be most important for us to improve? / Where are your most 
important walking routes when accessing transit? 
4. Of the types of improvements we are considering in this plan, which are your top priority? 
SCHEDULE 
 
14 of 34

--- page 15 ---
From: Dave Clark <dclark@clarkco.com>

Sent: _ Wednesday, August 11, 2021 8:01 PM
Ta: - ; Sustainability 8 Infrastructure Commission
Subject: , Transit Oriented Development - pedestrian access plan for three train stations

Regarding the ongoing project for TOD — pedestrian access plan.
I listened to the presentation but was unable to join for comments:

As this involves bike/ped | would ask that SVBC: san mateo be added as a stakeholder. We have about 50 local
members, and growing. Svbc has bout 10,000 in the bay area. We live and breathe this and would like to play a role.

Dave Clark

15 of 34


--- page 16 ---
From: Raayan Zarandian Mohtashemi:<mraayan65@gmail.com>

Sent: , Wednesday, August'11, 2021 9:22 PM
To: i Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission ;
Subject: Tonight's Agenda Item: Transit-Oriented Development Pedestrian Acceés Plan

Dear Commissioners, oo a
| listened in on most of tonight's presentation but was.not able to stick around for comment. Here are my comments.
Thank you for the opportunity! a

Hillsdale Caltrain Station is one of Caltrain's highest ridership (pre-pandemic) stations and is consequently a stop on
every baby bullet (express train) in Caltrain's newly released schedule. It is imperative that the station meet the highest
standard of pedestrian and multi-modal access. It currently does not. There are a few specific pedestrian-oriented issues
with the new station I'd like to point out. : .

1. Pedestrians descending the stairs to the 28th Avenue underpass are met with a hostile environment, hostile for
both bicyclists and pedestrians. They are forced to cross four lanes of high-speed traffic to go from one side of
the street to another in order to access the parking lots on either side. There is no marked crosswalk, and in
order to cross legally from one side of the station to another once at ground level, pedestrians must walk an

_ additional 700 feet to Delaware Street. This is obviously not something that people do. The consultant should
address this pain-point by adding a mid-block crosswalk at the underpass.

2. At ground level, pedestrians on the southern side of the road are forced to interact with bicycles on a narrow
sidewalk, creating dangerous ped-bike conflicts. We should have wider sidewalks and separated, protected bike
lanes that remove this conflict for bicyclists and pedestrians. The focus of 28th avenue, which runs right below
the station, should not be vehicle traffic. It should absolutely be pedestrians, bicyclists, and active mobility users,
given the high amount of pedestrian activity at the station.

3. One of the plazas at the underpass is fenced off from the Michael's parking lot. In order to access Hillsdale
shopping center and the high-frequency ECR SamTrans service on El] Camino, which are both only a few hundred
linear feet away from the station, pedestrians must walk all the way from the pedestrian plaza underneath the
station, to 28th avenue, to El Camino, and then walk to the bus or shopping center. When 31st Avenue opens,
assuming there is a ramp to get to 31st, there will be a marginally better access to Hillsdale shopping center, but
not to buses. The fencing between the parking lot and the station should be taken down to improve ped
connectivity. :

in terms of outreach, | am glad that the consultant reached out to Youth Leadership institute for pointers.
| would suggest that the consultant reach out to the following groups: Caltrain riders at the Stations, Silicon Valley

Bicycle Coalition San Mateo Local Team (bicyclists are also often pedestrians, and as such there would be much overlap).

Thank you so much for your time,
Raayan

16 of 34


--- page 17 ---
San Mateo Transit 
Oriented Development 
Pedestrian Access Plan
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission Meeting
August 11, 2021
17 of 34

--- page 18 ---
Project Background
• Goal: Increase safety and comfort for pedestrians within the 
City's transit-oriented development areas and near high-quality 
transit to encourage walking to transit
• City awarded FY 2019-20 Transportation Development Act (TDA) 
Article 3 Grant
• Agreement awarded to Fehr & Peers
18 of 34

--- page 19 ---
Agenda
• What is a pedestrian plan?
• Draft Community Engagement Plan
• Timeline
19 of 34

--- page 20 ---
1. Evaluate
2. Recommend
3. Prioritize
Community Engagement
What is a Pedestrian Plan?
20 of 34

--- page 21 ---
Study Area – Transit Oriented
San Mateo 
Caltrain Station
Hayward
Caltrain Station
Hillsdale
Caltrain Station
21 of 34

--- page 22 ---
Existing Conditions
Data-Driven Approach
• Previous plans
• Land uses & Demographics
• Roadway Data
• Safety Data
• Planned development projects
• Community input
22 of 34

--- page 23 ---
Needs Assessment
Existing Barriers to Pedestrian Travel
23 of 34

--- page 24 ---
Developing Project List
• Incorporate previous 
recommendations
• Develop new projects based 
on data & community input
• Rough Order Magnitude 
Cost Estimates
24 of 34

--- page 25 ---
ATX

PUBLIC
WORKS

City of San Mateo

Priority Projects & Implementation Plan

® 2 4
2 2 8 ;
9 os 7 o i)
Funding Source i) id P i : : a OE
Q 3 Eh
ig i> & te o£ &8
5} UB VY oo 6 ao
Congestion Mitigation and Air
Quality Program (CMAQ) * 9 % 9
Regional Surface Transportation
Block Grant RSTBG) ® @ @ 6 @ &
Highway Safety Improvement
Program (HSIP) Grants 8 8 *
Caltrans Transportation a () 3

Planning Grants

Local Transportation Fund (LTF) a 9 R g * %

California State Parks Recreational
Trails Program (RTP)

——— CITY OF SAN MATEO ————



--- page 26 ---
SES
PUBLIC
WORKS

City of San Mateo

Dratt Community Engagement Plan



--- page 27 ---
Objectives
• Inform
• Engage underrepresented populations
• Listen & build trust
27 of 34

--- page 28 ---
Phases of Community Engagement
1. Stakeholder Interviews 
2. Community Events & Activities
3. Report Back
28 of 34

--- page 29 ---
Interest Group
Organization
Seniors
•
Aging and Retirement Activist
•
San Mateo Senior Citizens Commission
Youth
•
Youth Leadership Institute (YLI) San Mateo
•
Youth Leadership Institute (YLI) Bay Area
Latinx Community
•
San Mateo Health Department, Office of 
Diversity and Equity
Stakeholder Interviews
29 of 34

--- page 30 ---
Community Engagement Events
Spanish translations & interpretation will be provided
Who We Are 
Engaging
Senior 
Community
Youth
Latinx 
Community
Community 
Meeting
X
Map Survey
X
Pop-Up Surveys
X
X
30 of 34

--- page 31 ---
Timeline

SES.
PUBLIC
WORKS

City of San Mateo



--- page 32 ---
Timeline

2021

| | | ft
Task3-Community Outresch and Engagement | |] | ||
| Ix] | |

Community Engagement Plan

re emtseawsinisied |
rac tptananenses | |

Ts: tesonendd Plessis | | | | TI
fans. TO0Peievintcestin «| | || 7 | | [| _
form SSCS CY CC
rmipitoniagin —f | [||| | | | | —
aks tvieoneal doen | | | | | | | | | —

* Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission Meeting

* Council study session/meeting

Sep-21] Oct-21] Nov-21] Dec-21] Jan-22] Feb-22| Mar-22} Apr-22] May-22} Jun-22

SES.
PUBLIC
WORKS

City of San Mateo



--- page 33 ---
Feedback
1. Does the Commission have any general questions 
on the Community Engagement Plan or the Plan's 
approach?
2. Are the proposed engagement activities broad enough to 
reach various users in the project study areas? Are there 
additional activities the Commission would suggest in 
lieu of any of the proposed?
3. Are there additional groups or stakeholders the 
Commission recommends including?
33 of 34

--- page 34 ---
Thank You
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicworks
Nicolette Chan
Assistant Transportation Planner
nchan@cityofsanmateo.org
34 of 34