source: packet.pdf
sha256: fb5de843f6f139348a6ef378d68f6c48597006beed0ac1c6e87747129611afc0
pages: 134
ocr_pages: 1
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Agenda
February 3, 2020
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Joe Goethals, Mayor
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor
Rick Bonilla
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance: Mid-Peninsula Boys & Girls Club – Youth of the Year
Roll Call
CEREMONIAL
1.
Center for Age-Friendly Excellence – Presentation
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
2.
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council's special and regular meetings of January 21, 2020 and special meeting of
January 25, 2020.
3.
Private Sewer Lateral Update - Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.38.432 "Private Sewer Laterals" with
regard to sewer lateral inspections and adopt a Resolution to establish the minimum cost of improvements at
which private sewer lateral inspection and testing shall be required as a condition of issuance of building permits
for new structures, additions, or alterations/remodels.
4.
City of San Mateo Annual Investment Policy - 2020 Approval
Adopt a Resolution to approve the City of San Mateo 2020 Investment Policy.
5.
Basin 2 and 3 Collection System Improvements Project – Right of Entry Permit Agreement
Approve a Right of Entry Permit Agreement with Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board and the San Mateo
County Transit District for Basin 2 and 3 Collection System Improvements Project in the amount of $3,250 and
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
6.
Marina Lagoon Vegetation and Water Quality Management - Professional Services Agreement
Approve an agreement with Waterworks Industries, Inc. for Marina Lagoon Vegetation and Water Quality
Management in the amount of $935,656 for a three-year agreement with the option of two, one-year extensions;
establish a contingency of $93,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in
substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
1 of 134

--- page 2 ---
7.
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Fee Collection Disclosure
Adopt a Resolution to amend the 2019-20 City of San Mateo Comprehensive Fee Schedule to reflect fees for plan
check and inspection services performed by the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
OLD BUSINESS
8.
Below Market Rate Program – Revisions
Adopt a Resolution to provide modifications to the City's Below Market Rate (BMR) Inclusionary program and
adopt an updated BMR fractional fee.
9.
City-Wide Special Events – Task Force Creation
Approve the creation of the Special Events Task Force, the proposed composition, the process for appointment of
members, and determine which Council Members will serve on the task force.
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the Council's consideration of these items. Following the meeting a report of
action from Closed Session will be provided if required.
10.
Conference with Legal Counsel—Anticipated Litigation
Significant exposure to litigation pursuant to paragraph (3) of subdivision (d) of Section 54956.9: Two potential
cases
11.
City Attorney and City Manager Compensation
Agency designated representative: Mayor Joe Goethals / Unrepresented employees: City Attorney and City
Manager
RECONVENE TO OPEN SESSION
12.
City Attorney and City Manager Compensation
Adopt Resolutions to authorize action regarding City Attorney and City Manager compensation.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
2 of 134

--- page 3 ---
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Agendas are posted on the City's website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting. Background material can be viewed at City
Hall or on the City's website www.cityofsanmateo.org. Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the
agenda will be available for review in the City Clerk's Office.
City Council meetings are broadcast live at 7:00 p.m. on Cable Channel 27 for Comcast, Channel 26 for Astound, and Channel 99 for
AT&T customers. For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this
meeting may contact the City Clerk's Office at (650) 522-7040 or polds@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting
will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
3 of 134

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2478
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Department
MEETING DATE:
February 03, 2020 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the City Council's special and regular meetings of January 21, 2020 and special meeting of 
January 25, 2020.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – January 21, 2020 Special Meeting Minutes
Att 2 – January 21, 2020 Regular Meeting Minutes
Att 3 – January 25, 2020 Special Meeting Minutes
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
4 of 134

--- page 5 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 01/21/2020 
 
Page 1 
 
COUNCIL MEMBERS 
Joe Goethals, Mayor 
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor 
Rick Bonilla 
Diane Papan 
Amourence Lee 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Special Meeting Minutes 
City Council 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
  
Tuesday, January 21, 2020 
Council Chamber 5:30 PM 
Special Meeting 
  
CALL TO ORDER 
  
Roll Call 
 
Present:    Mayor Goethals, Council Members: Rodriguez, Papan and Lee  
Recused: Council Member Bonilla because of a potential conflict of interest involving his residence, which is 
located in the neighborhood adjacent to the location of the proposed parking track because of the 
potential effect the Council’s decision might have on the value of his property. 
 
 
STUDY SESSION  
 
1. 
25th Avenue Grade Separation – Parking Track Location Update  
Public Works Director Brad Underwood and Casey Fromson, Caltrain, provided a presentation on the parking (Set-
Out) track proposed location. Council asked questions of staff and Caltrain. 
  
Public Comment - In favor of not impacting the preschool, Universe of Colors, with the parking track: Bryanne 
Myers. Stefanie Foster, and Curt Bererton. Should not be in a residential area:  Kristi McAlister. Kevin Hearle, PhD. 
Laurie Watanuki, Laura Wood, Cyndi Simms, Greg St. Clair, Sue Layman, Elbert Oh, and Rebecca Smith. 
Hayward Park Focus Group – provided an organized presentation from Chris Brousseau, Thomas Butler, and Mike 
Johnson provided alternative locations. Drew commented on the Caltrain Business Plan. 
 
Council asked additional questions of staff and Caltrain. Rafael Bolon, Caltrain, answered technical questions and 
clarified issues with some of the proposed sites. 
 
Council discussion and comments ensued including a desire to ask the San Mateo County Transportation 
Authority (TA) for funding for the project; concern that there is not a clear understanding of the technical 
challenges for proposed alternate sites; the process feels rushed; concern for the Hayward Park neighborhood; 
concern for the preschool; possibilities to help relocate the school.  
 
ADJOURNMENT  
The meeting was continued at 7:08 p.m. to follow the end of the Regular City Council meeting and thus the item 
was taken up again at 9:10 p.m.  
 
Mayor Goethals stated he is uncomfortable giving direction at this point. Can Caltrain provide feasibility/technical 
study for other options on the table. He is concerned with eliminating the preschool. A better understanding of 
the technical aspects is needed. Council Member Papan concurs with Goethals. Casey Fromson, Caltrain 
representative, stated it is worthwhile to put the technical issues in writing and she committed to publishing them 
as soon as possible so the community can review. City Manager Corbett noted he would propose to the 
Transportation Authority to fund all or a portion of these alternatives. Caltrain will provide technical rationale / 
study for this at a study session February 18, 2020. 
5 of 134

--- page 6 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 01/21/2020 
 
Page 2 
 
 
The Meeting adjourned at 9:35 pm. 
 
APPROVED BY:                                                         SUBMITTED BY: 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                  
Joe Goethals, Mayor                                                    Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk 
 
 
6 of 134

--- page 7 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 01/21/20 
 
Page 1 
COUNCIL MEMBERS 
Joe Goethals, Mayor 
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor 
Rick Bonilla 
Diane Papan 
Amourence Lee 
Concurrent Meetings 
City of San Mateo and 
San Mateo Joint Powers 
Financing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes 
City Council 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
  
Tuesday, January 21, 2020 
City Hall Council Chambers 7:00 PM 
Regular Meeting 
  
 
CALL TO ORDER  
  
Pledge of Allegiance: Mission Hospice & Home Care 
The Mayor bestowed recognition and a certificate of commendation to Patricia Matthews for her 17 years of work as a 
Hospice volunteer. 
 
Roll Call 
 
 
Present:  Mayor Goethals, Council Members: Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR – CITY COUNCIL 
 
The following items, 1 through 9, were considered to be routine by the City Council. After the titles of the items were 
read by the City Clerk, the public was invited to comment and there were no speakers. Motion passed 5-0. 
 
Moved: Bonilla, Seconded: Rodriguez 
Ayes:  
Goethals, Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee 
Noes:  
None 
  
1. City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval 
Approve the minutes of the City Council's regular and special meeting minutes of January 6, 2020. 
  
2. Fiscal Year 2019-20 Property Tax In Lieu of Vehicle License Fee Shortfall – Letters to Assemblymember Mullin and 
Senator Hill 
Approve letters to Assemblymember Kevin Mullin and Senator Jerry Hill regarding fiscal year 2019-20 Property Tax 
in-lieu of Vehicle License Fee shortfall. 
  
3. Fiscal Year 2018-19 Community Development Block Grant Street Rehabilitation Project – Contract 
Award a contract to McKim Corporation for the fiscal year 2018-19 Community Development Block Grant Street 
Rehabilitation Project in the amount of $821,473.24; establish a contingency reserve of $82,000; and authorize the 
Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and approve contract change 
orders within the contingency reserve. 
  
4. Juvenile Diversion Program Case Management Services – Agreement for Services and Amendment to 
Reimbursement Agreement 
Approve a three-year agreement with the YMCA for Juvenile Diversion Program case management services in the 
7 of 134

--- page 8 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 01/21/20 
 
Page 2 
total amount of $412,022; approve Amendment No. 3 to the agreement with the County of San Mateo to increase 
the reimbursement amount by $287,868 for case management services for the San Mateo Police Department 
Juvenile Diversion Program; authorize the Interim Chief of Police to execute the agreements in substantially the 
form presented; and adopt a Resolution to appropriate $132,649 to the Police Department’s fiscal year 2019-20 
operating budget.  
 
Enactment:  Resolution No. 7 (2020) 
  
5. Personal Computer Replacements – Master Purchasing Agreement 
Adopt a Resolution to approve a Master Purchasing Agreement and Participating Addendum with CDW-G for the 
purchase of personal computers in an amount not to exceed $175,000; and authorize Director of Information 
Technology to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented. 
  
Enactment:  Resolution No. 8 (2020) 
 
6. Building Inspector Mutual Aid – Agreement 
Approve the building inspection services mutual aid agreement with San Mateo County cities for mutual aid in the 
event of an emergency; and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
presented. 
  
7. On-Call Transportation Analysis Reports for Various Projects - Agreements 
Approve on-call professional services agreements with AECOM, Fehr & Peers, Kittelson and Associates, Inc., and 
Steer Davies and Gleave, Inc., for terms of approximately 2.5 years in a total amount not to exceed $250,000 each; 
and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreements in substantially the form presented.  
  
8. Instrumentation and Controls Technician Workshop Design and Construction - Agreement 
Award an agreement to ERBCO Construction Services, Inc. for the Instrumentation and Controls Technician 
Workshop Design and Construction Project in the amount of $150,000; establish a contingency reserve of $15,000; 
and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue 
change orders within the contingency amount. 
  
9. Downtown Parking Technology Project - Agreement  
Adopt a Resolution to authorize the adoption of Caltrans’ Local Assistance Procedures Manual Chapter 10; approve 
an agreement with Park Engineering Inc. for the construction management of the CML5102-(048) Downtown 
Parking Technology project in the amount of $248,667; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $25,000; 
and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue 
change orders within the contingency amount.  
  
Enactment:  Resolution No. 9 (2020) 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
There were no speakers. 
 
OLD BUSINESS – CITY COUNCIL 
  
10. Update on Content of Senate Bill 50 and Consideration of Feedback to Senator Hill 
City Manager Drew Corbett introduced the item explaining that California Senator Jerry Hill had asked all cities for 
input on changes to the proposed bill. City Attorney Shawn Mason presented information on the difference 
8 of 134

--- page 9 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 01/21/20 
 
Page 3 
between the previous version of SB50 and the proposed version. Council asked questions of staff. Public comment 
was offered - there were no speakers.  
 
Council discussion ensued. Mayor Goethals stated he could be in favor of rescinding formal opposition in lieu of 
taking no position while we continue to work with Hill and Mullin.  
 
Council Member Bonilla stated this is a move in the right direction and he support it noting it will be amended 
further noting the time is critical to do something.  
 
Deputy Mayor Rodriguez stated his agreement with Bonilla that this is a step in the right direction; however, he 
would prefer to keep the oppose position until we learn more before changing to neutral or support.  
 
Council Member Papan stated agreement with Rodriguez and noted that the San Francisco Supervisors oppose 
10:1 even with the recent amendments and noted there are still important reasons to oppose the bill. She also is 
concerned with excluding Marin County for the legislation. There is a need to look at data for particular 
communities and it undermines the methodical and comprehensive nature of the General Plan process and no 
acknowledgement of physical limitations of the geography. Finally, she is most concerned about imposing 
untenable fiscal impacts on the city itself. She can’t support changing from oppose.  
 
Council Member Lee queried what is the advantage of staying neutral or oppose? City Attorney Mason stated he is 
not qualified to answer if one is better than the other and noted that San Mateo’s position is not going to sway 
California legislature one way or the other. Lee desires to stay as engaged in the conversation as possible. She 
noted there is no clear disadvantage from withdrawing opposition.  
 
Motion to withdraw previous opposition to SB50. Motion passed 3-2. 
 
Moved: Geothals, Seconded: Bonilla  
Ayes:  
Goethals, Bonilla, Lee 
Noes:  
Papan, Rodriguez 
 
NEW BUSINESS – CITY COUNCIL 
  
11. Private Sewer Lateral Update – Ordinance Introduction 
Management Analyst Alonso Barahona provided a presentation on the sewer lateral program and inspections. 
Council asked questions of staff.  Public Comment - John Brook expressed concern the ordinance is too general - it 
needs more specificity and recommended requiring the seller to require sewer lateral disclosure. Council asked 
additional questions of staff.  
Introduce an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.38.432 "Private Sewer Laterals" with 
regard to sewer lateral inspections. Motion passed 5-0. 
Moved: 
Bonilla, Seconded: Papan 
Ayes:  
Goethals, Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee 
Noes:  
None 
 
12. 
Fiscal Year 2019-20 Mid-Year Financial Summary – Update 
Budget Manager Grace Castenada and Finance Director Rich Lee provided a presentation on the mid-year finances. 
Council asked questions of staff. Public comment - there were no speakers.  
9 of 134

--- page 10 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 01/21/20 
 
Page 4 
Accept the fiscal year 2019-20 mid-year financial summary and authorize staff to move forward with the 2019-20 
General Fund discretionary expenditures. Motion passed 5-0. 
Moved: Bonilla, Seconded: Lee 
Ayes:  
Goethals, Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee 
Noes:  
None   
 
It was requested by Bond Counsel to move the next item No. 13 after item No. 14. And the Clerk noted for the record that 
the Public Hearing was concurrent for the City Council and the San Mateo Joint Powers Financing Authority. 
CONCURRENT PUBLIC HEARING – CITY COUNCIL AND SAN MATEO JOINT POWERS 
FINANCING AUTHORITY 
  
14. Escrow Deposit and Trust Agreement - Approval 
Finance Director Rich Lee provided a brief overview of the agreement needed to refinance the bonds with the City 
and the Authority. Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – There were no speakers.  
 
Adopt a Resolution to authorize the execution of an escrow deposit and trust agreement in connection with the 
refunding of outstanding bonds and approving related documents and official actions. Motion passed 5-0. 
  
Moved: Lee, Seconded: Bonilla 
Ayes:  
Goethals, Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee 
Noes:  
None   
 
13. Street and Flood Control Improvements – Bond Sale 
Finance Director Rich Lee provided a presentation on the purpose of refinancing this series of bonds. Council asked 
questions of staff. Public Comment – there were no speakers.  
 
 
Adopt a Resolution to approve the San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority’s (the “Authority”) sale of 
revenue bonds (the “2020 Bonds”) in a maximum $54 million principal amount to provide financing for public 
improvements to be owned and operated by the City of San Mateo (the “City”) and to provide for the refinancing of 
outstanding bonds, approving related documents, declaring the intention to reimburse expenditures from bond 
proceeds, and directing certain actions in connection with the sale of such bonds. Motion passed 5-0. 
  
 
Moved: Bonilla, Seconded: Lee 
 
Ayes:  
Goethals, Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan Lee 
Noes:  
None 
 
 
Enactment:  Resolution No. 10 (2020) 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
The City Manager, City Attorney and City Council reported on their various committees and liaison roles. 
 
10 of 134

--- page 11 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 01/21/20 
 
Page 5 
STUDY SESSION – CONTINUED FROM THE 1/21/20 5:30 MEETING 
The City Council adjourned the regular meeting to take back up the special meeting item following a break to set-up the 
room from 9:03 pm to 9:10 pm. 
 
Mayor Goethals stated he is uncomfortable giving direction at this point. Can Caltrain provide feasibility/technical study 
for other options on the table. He is concerned with eliminating the pre-school. A better understanding of the technical 
aspects is needed. Council Member Papan concurs with Goethals. Casey Fromson, Caltrain Representative stated it is 
worthwhile to put the technical issues in writing and committed to publishing as soon as possible so the community can 
review. City Manager Corbett noted he would propose to the Transportation Authority to fund all or a portion of these 
alternatives. Caltrain will provide technical rationale / study for this at a study session February 18, 2020. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Following the opportunity for public comment, there were no speakers the City Council adjourned to closed session at 
9:35 p.m. to take up the following matters on items No. 15 and 16. It was noted that Item No. 17 was being continued. 
 
CLOSED SESSION 
15. Conference with Labor Negotiators (Government Code Section 54957.6) 
City designated representatives: Casey Echarte and Teresa Abrahamsohn Employee Organizations: Safety 
Management Association, Management Association, SEIU Library Units 
 
16. Conference with Legal Counsel—Existing Litigation 
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Government Section 54956.9)  
Name of case: Carlos Fernandez v. City of San Mateo, United States District Court, Northern District of California, 
Case No. 3:19-cv-07078-LB 
 
17. Conference with Legal Counsel—Anticipated Litigation (Continued to a future meeting) 
Significant exposure to litigation pursuant to paragraph (3) of subdivision (d) of Section 54956.9: Two potential cases 
 
APPROVED BY: 
SUBMITTED BY: 
 
 
                                                            
                                                            
Joe Goethals, Mayor  
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk 
  
 
 
11 of 134

--- page 12 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 01/25/2020 
 
Page 1 
COUNCIL MEMBERS 
Joe Goethals, Mayor 
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor 
Rick Bonilla 
Diane Papan 
Amourence Lee 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Special Meeting Minutes 
City Council 
College of San Mateo 
1700 West Hillsdale Blvd. 
College Heights Conference Room 
Building 10, Room 468 
  
Saturday, January 25, 2020 
College of San Mateo 8:30 AM 
Special Meeting 
  
 
CALL TO ORDER 
Call to order at 9:00 am 
Roll Call:  Goethals, Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan, Lee 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
This is the opportunity for the public to comment on Council’s Strategic Plan and Objectives for fiscal year 2020-21 before Council 
proceeds with its working session. 
 
Valerie Oblath for Laguna Vista Committee requested making dredging the south end of the lagoon a goal of the City. 
Robert Whitehair commented on all electric affordable housing and gun storage ordinance and infrastructure. Adam 
Loraine commented on green priorities and climate action plan update and green fleet initiative. Rafael Reyes 
commented on all electric vehicles. Drew advocated for a Caltrain corridor wide study. Karen Herrel commented on 
the General Plan process and public input and issues with the survey. Mark Eliot commented on surveillance use 
plan. Carol Steinfeld commented on the need for a Water Resilience Committee in San Mateo.   
 
STUDY SESSION 
 
1. City Council Goal Setting Workshop 
        Review the current Council Strategic Plan and identify new Council objectives for consideration for fiscal year  
2020-21. 
 
City Manager provided remarks on the process for the workshop.  
 
Facilitator Tim Dunkin took City Council through a review of the current strategic plan. Council concurred with the 
process.  
 
Council expressed interest in the two new items for a study session in this fiscal year for banning vaping/e-cigarettes 
regulation, safe handgun storage regulations, and brought forward the options of what is existing in the County and 
other San Mateo county cities. Action initiated in this fiscal year.  
 
Update on the 2019-20 plan: Downtown Area Plan is now part of the General Plan; change title to add the word 
funding to the existing infrastructure plans; remove “Review the findings of the 2016 Housing Task Force” as it is 
completed; Keep “Wage Theft” as a C just on radar and monitor; and “Explore banning smoking in commercial areas” 
moving from a B priority to an A priority and consider adding to anti-littering priority. “Analyze the potential to 
produce potable drinking water from the Clean Water Program” keep as a B priority.   
 
The City Manager reviewed major department initiatives and provided an update on progress. 
 
Council recessed at 10:25 am and reconvened at 10:40 am. 
 
12 of 134

--- page 13 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 01/25/2020 
 
Page 2 
Council reviewed their proposed objectives and considered adding the following (including a lunch break from 12:00 
to 12:30) and Council prioritized them as A, B or C:   
 
• 
Climate Action Plan – reduce carbon emissions - A 
• 
Provide an evaluation of a Green Fleet by 2030 - B 
• 
Evaluate the feasibility of dredging the Marina - A 
• 
Banning vaping / e-cig - A 
• 
Firearm storage regulations - A 
• 
Evaluate street closure in downtown – B Street Pedestrian Plaza Plan - A 
• 
Planning phase downtown grade separation - B 
• 
Evaluate Council Compensation – A (add to 19-20) 
• 
Plan to expand downtown parking/public transit for employees - A 
• 
Support County’s Disposable Food Service Ware – explore city adoption - B 
• 
Evaluate potential mandates regarding composting in multi-family dwelling – B 
• 
Age Friendly Cities Initiative - A 
• 
Evaluate our ability to do a standardized & routine statistically-valid community survey that includes workforce 
not just residents - B 
• 
Explore options to discourage commercial vacancies, including fees – A 
 
The Mayor expressed appreciation for all of the work.  
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
The meeting adjourned at 1:27 p.m.  
 
APPROVED BY:                                                         SUBMITTED BY: 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                  
Joe Goethals, Mayor                                                    Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk 
 
 
 
 
 
13 of 134

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2476
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Department
MEETING DATE:
February 03, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Private Sewer Lateral Update - Ordinance Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.38.432 "Private Sewer Laterals" with regard to 
sewer lateral inspections and adopt a Resolution to establish the minimum cost of improvements at which private sewer 
lateral inspection and testing shall be required as a condition of issuance of building permits for new structures, additions, 
or alterations/remodels. 
BACKGROUND:
Ordinance Introduction date: 1/21/20
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Ordinance
Att 2 – Proposed Resolution 
14 of 134

--- page 15 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ORDINANCE NO. 2020-Click or tap here to enter text.
Amending Section 7.38.432 Private Sewer Laterals to Require Inspection and Testing
WHEREAS, an objective of the City’s Clean Water Program is to prevent sanitary sewer overflows, or 
SSOs, because they create a public health hazard and negatively impact the water quality of the City’s creeks 
and lagoons. SSOs frequently occur during wet weather as a result of inflow and infiltration into the City’s sewer 
collection system; and
WHEREAS, the City is undertaking several projects to reduce inflow and infiltration through repair and 
rehabilitation of sewer mains; and
WHEREAS, damaged and defective private sewer laterals are a significant and additional source of inflow 
and infiltration; and
WHEREAS, the Council finds that by requiring property owners to test and inspect their sewer laterals, a 
greater number of damaged or defective private sewer laterals will be identified, and therefore repaired.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 7.38.432 Private Sewer Laterals is amended as follows:
7.38.432
Private Sewer Laterals
(a) Responsibility for repair, replacement and maintenance of sewer lateral. The owner of the 
property(ies) serviced shall be responsible for any portion of the private sewer lateral extending from a building 
to the public sewer main, including the wye connection which joins the private sewer lateral to the public sewer 
main. Any repairs, replacement or maintenance, such as the clearing of pipes using common industry hydro or 
mechanical cleaning tools, will not be provided by the City on private sewer laterals or in private sewer systems. 
Responsibility for such repairs, replacement and maintenance is that of the owner of the property(ies) serviced 
by the lateral.
(b) Mandatory installation of cleanout. When installing or replacing a sewer lateral connection from a 
building to the public main sewer, if not already present, the property owner shall install a cleanout near the 
property structure in accordance with the requirements of the Uniform Building Code, the California Plumbing 
Code, and any other applicable regulations adopted by the City, City standards, or plans and specifications 
approved by the City Engineer.
(c) Sewer lateral inspections. The owner(s) of the property served by a private sewer lateral shall be 
responsible for inspecting and testing, the lateral as required by this subsection, and providing the results to the 
City. The Public Works Director shall establish standards and regulations for the manner and scope of sewer 
lateral inspections.
(1) When required.
15 of 134

--- page 16 ---
(A) Upon the sale of real property served by a private sewer lateral.
(B) Prior to issuance of a building permit where the cost of the improvements for an 
addition or alteration/remodel project exceeds such amount as established by resolution of the 
City Council.
(C) For commercial or multifamily residential buildings, upon the occurrence of a sewer 
lateral backup or blockage resulting in a sanitary sewer overflow.
(D) Upon a change in sewer customer class, as defined by section 3.54.020.
(2) Exemptions. No inspection and testing of a sewer lateral shall be required if:
(A) The sewer lateral has been inspected within the 5 years immediately preceding one 
of the events listed above, and the results of such inspection showed that either no repairs were 
required, or only partial repairs were required, and those repairs were in fact completed; or
(B) The sewer lateral has been completely replaced within the 25 years, as evidenced by 
a plumbing permit issued by the City; or
(C) Upon other exemption approved by the Director of Public Works.
Section 2. Environmental Determination. in accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15378(b)(2), this action is not a project subject to CEQA review in that this ordinance is a 
general policy making activity.
Section 3. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 4. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 5. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on January 21, 2020, and 
adopted on Click or tap to enter a date., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
16 of 134

--- page 17 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2020)
ESTABLISHING THE MINIMUM COST OF IMPROVEMENTS AT WHICH PRIVATE SEWER LATERAL 
INSPECTION AND TESTING SHALL BE REQUIRED AS A CONDITION OF ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS FOR 
NEW STRUCTURES, ADDITIONS, OR ALTERATIONS/REMODELS.
WHEREAS, an objective of the City’s Clean Water Program is to prevent sanitary sewer overflows, or 
SSOs, because they create a public health hazard and negatively impact the water quality of the City’s creeks 
and lagoons. SSOs frequently occur during wet weather as a result of inflow and infiltration into the City’s sewer 
collection system; and
WHEREAS, the City is undertaking several projects to reduce inflow and infiltration through repair and 
rehabilitation of sewer mains; and
WHEREAS, damaged and defective private sewer laterals are a significant and additional source of inflow 
and infiltration; and
WHEREAS, the Council finds that by requiring property owners to test and inspect their sewer laterals, a 
greater number of damaged or defective private sewer laterals will be identified, and therefore repaired.
WHEREAS, the Council adopted an ordinance amending Section 7.38.432 of the Municipal Code on 
February 3, 2020 to require owners of property served by a private sewer laterals to inspect and testing their 
lateral for defects upon the occurrence of certain events, including prior to issuance of a building permit for a 
new structure, addition, or alteration/remodel project, where the cost of the improvements exceeds such 
amount as established by resolution of the City Council.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO RESOLVES AS FOLLOWS:
1. For the purposes of Section 7.38.432(c)(1)(B) of the Municipal Code, the minimum amount for cost of 
improvements shall be ninety thousand dollars ($90,000).
17 of 134

--- page 18 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2471
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
February 03, 2020 
SUBJECT:
City of San Mateo Annual Investment Policy  - 2020 Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the City of San Mateo 2020 Investment Policy.
BACKGROUND:
The investment of funds by a California local agency, including the types of securities in which an agency may invest, is 
governed by the California Government Code (Section 53000-53610).  The City’s Investment Policy may be more restrictive 
than Government Code; however, it may not be more permissive.  Formal investment policies by local agencies are not 
required by law, but they are considered a best practice to provide guidelines for investing City funds in accordance with 
Government Code.  The City’s practice is to have the City Council review and approve the policy annually regardless of 
whether or not there are changes.    
The 2020 Investment Policy has been updated to expand the diversification of the City’s investment portfolio to include 
the purchase of Asset Backed Securities.  Securities eligible for investment under this subdivision shall be rated in a rating 
category of “AA” or its equivalent or better by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization (NRSRO) and have a 
maximum remaining maturity of five years or less. No more than 5% of the agency’s total portfolio shall be invested in any 
one issuer. Purchase of securities authorized by this subdivision shall not exceed 10 percent of the agency’s total portfolio.  
POLICY REVIEW
The annual review of the City’s Investment Policy provides the opportunity to make modifications to reflect changes in the 
California Government Code.  There were no changes in the California Government Code to require changes to the City’s 
Investment Policy.  The proposed 2020 Investment Policy was approved by the City’s Investment Advisory Committee at its 
November 14, 2019 quarterly meeting.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are no additional costs associated with approval of the proposed revisions to the 2020 Investment Policy.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This 2020 Investment Policy is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
18 of 134

--- page 19 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Investment Policy Track Changes
STAFF CONTACT
Lisa Wesley, Treasury and Debt Manager
wesley@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7110
19 of 134

--- page 20 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. __ (2020)
ADOPTING THE INVESTMENT POLICY FOR THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
WHEREAS, investment policies guide staff and their advisors for all investment activities on behalf of 
cities; and
WHEREAS, those investment activities are primarily governed by the individual city’s adopted 
investment policies and by California state law (Government Code sections 53600-53610); and
WHEREAS, the Investment Policy for the City of San Mateo is consistent with state law and, for the 
purpose of added safety and liquidity, is more restrictive than state law; and
WHEREAS, Government Code section 53646 requires annual review and approval of a city’s investment 
policy only if there are changes, however it encourages cities to conduct an annual review and approval process 
even if there are no proposed changes; and
WHEREAS, recognizing the importance of the City’s Investment Policy, staff proposes to continue the 
annual Council review and approval process even if there are no proposed changes; and
WHEREAS, the Investment Advisory Committee concurs with staff’s recommendation to adopt the 2020 
Investment Policy;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE SAN MATEO CITY COUNCIL HEREBY RESOLVES that:
1.
In accordance with California Quality Act Guidelines section 15378(b)(5), this activity is not a project 
subject to CEQA in that it can be seen with certainty that it won’t have a significant impact on the 
environment.
20 of 134

--- page 21 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 2 of 10
Investment Policy
ADOPTED – February 3, 2019
BY CITY COUNCIL
2020
INVESTMENT POLICY
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
AND CITY OF SAN MATEO, ACTING AS SUCCESSOR AGENCY TO THE REDEVELOPMENT 
AGENCY OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
I.
SCOPE AND AUTHORITY
In accordance with the Charter of the City of San Mateo, (the “City”), the Finance Director/City 
Treasurer is responsible for investing the unexpended cash of the City and the Successor Agency to 
the Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Mateo (the “Successor Agency”) in the City 
Treasury. The authority governing investments for local agencies is set forth in the California 
Government Code Sections 53600 et. seq. 
This Investment Policy (the “Policy”) applies to all the investment activities of the City and the 
Successor Agency. The Policy will also apply to all other funds under the Finance Director/City 
Treasurer’s span of control unless specifically exempted by statute or ordinance.  All the invested 
financial assets are accounted for in the City’s fund accounting system which includes: General 
Fund, Special Revenue Funds, Capital Project Funds, Enterprise Funds, Debt Service Funds, 
Internal Service Funds, and Trust and Agency Funds.
All cash shall be pooled for investment purposes. The investment income derived from the pooled 
investment account shall be allocated to the contributing funds based upon the proportion of the 
respective average balances relative to the total pooled balance.  Investment income shall be 
distributed to the individual funds not less than annually.
II.
OBJECTIVES
City and Successor Agency funds shall be invested in accordance with all applicable City policies 
and codes, State statutes, and Federal regulations, and in a manner designed to accomplish the 
following objectives, which are listed in priority order:
A.
Safety of principal
The City shall seek to preserve principal by mitigating credit risk and market risk, as defined 
below:
1.
“Credit Risk” - the risk of loss due to failure of the issuer of a security or the diminished 
quality of its rating.
Exhibit A
21 of 134

--- page 22 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 3 of 10
Investment Policy
Credit risk shall be mitigated by diversifying the investment portfolio.
2. “Market Risk” - the risk of market value fluctuations due to overall changes in the general 
level of interest rates.
Market risk shall be mitigated by limiting the average maturity of the City’s portfolio to 
three years and the maximum maturity of any one security in the portfolio to five years. 
The portfolio shall be structured with an adequate mix of highly liquid securities and 
those with maturities scheduled to meet major cash outflow requirements.
B.
Liquidity Standard 
To ensure sufficient liquidity in order to meet anticipated cash flow needs, a minimum of 
25% of the market value of the investment portfolio shall be invested in securities or deposits 
that have a remaining maturity of less than six (6) months.
C.
Return on investment 
The City’s investment portfolio shall be structured to attain a market-average rate of return 
through economic cycles. 
 
III.
DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY
In accordance with the City Charter, the City Manager delegates his/her authority over investment 
activities to the Finance Director/City Treasurer or his/her designee.  Staff members of the Finance 
Department’s Treasury Division may be assigned to perform the day-to-day treasury activities 
related to the investment of City funds. No person may engage in an investment transaction except 
as expressly provided under the terms of this Policy. 
The City may delegate its investment authority to an investment adviser registered under the 
Investment Advisers Act of 1940, so long as it can be demonstrated that these services produce a 
net financial advantage or necessary financial protection of the City’s financial resources. The 
adviser shall follow this Policy and such other written instructions as provided. Such delegation is 
subject to City review and overriding discretion which will be exercised as needed.
IV.
INTERNAL CONTROLS
The Finance Director/City Treasurer has established a system of internal controls to ensure 
compliance with the investment policies and procedures of the City, the Successor Agency, and the 
California Government Code. Such controls shall be designed to prevent losses of public funds 
arising from fraud, employee error, and misrepresentation by third parties, or imprudent actions by 
employees of the City. Investment decisions are made by the Finance Director/City Treasurer or 
his/her designee and executed by staff of the Finance Department’s Treasury Division. All wire 
transfers initiated by Finance Department staff members must be approved and transmitted by the 
Finance Director/City Treasurer or his/her designee. Proper documentation obtained from 
confirmation and cash disbursement wire transfers is required for each investment transaction. 
Timely bank reconciliation is conducted to ensure proper handling of all transactions.
22 of 134

--- page 23 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 4 of 10
Investment Policy
The investment portfolio and all related transactions are reviewed and balanced to appropriate 
general ledger accounts by senior finance staff on a monthly basis. An independent analysis by an 
external auditor shall be conducted annually to review and perform procedure testing on the City’s 
cash and investments. The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall review and assure compliance with 
investment processes and procedures. 
V.
ETHICS AND CONFLICT OF INTEREST
In accordance with California Government Code Sections 1090 et seq. and 87100 et seq., officers 
and employees of the City will refrain from any activity that could conflict with the proper execution 
of the investment program or which could impair their ability to make impartial investment 
decisions, and all investment personnel shall subordinate their personal investment transactions to 
those of the City. In addition, City Council members, the City Manager, and Finance Director/City 
Treasurer, shall comply with the reporting requirements of California Government Code Section 
87203 and regulations of the Fair Political Practices Commission and file a Statement of Economic 
Interest annually. 
VI.
PRUDENT INVESTOR STANDARD
The standard of prudence to be used for managing the City’s investments shall be California 
Government Code Section 53600.3, the prudent investor standard, which states that “When 
investing, reinvesting, purchasing, acquiring, exchanging, selling, or managing public funds, a 
trustee shall act with care, skill, prudence, and diligence under the circumstances then prevailing, 
including, but not limited to, the general economic conditions and the anticipated needs of the 
agency, that a prudent person acting in a like capacity and familiarity with those matters would use 
in the conduct of funds of a like character and with like aims, to safeguard the principal and maintain 
the liquidity needs of the agency.”
The City recognizes that market prices of securities will vary depending on economic and interest 
rate conditions at any point in time. It is further recognized, that in a well-diversified investment 
portfolio, occasional measured losses may occur due to economic, bond market, or individual 
security credit events. These occasional declines in value must be considered within the context of 
the overall investment program objectives and the resultant long-term rate of return.
The Finance Director/City Treasurer and other individuals assigned to manage the investment 
portfolio, acting within the intent and scope of this Policy and other written procedures and 
exercising due diligence, shall be relieved of personal responsibility and liability for an individual 
security’s credit risk or market price changes, provided deviations from expectations are reported 
in a timely manner and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
VII.
AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS
All investments and deposits of the City shall be made in accordance with California Government 
Code Sections 16429.1, 53600-53609, and 53630-53686. Any amendments to these code sections 
will be assumed to be part of this Policy immediately upon being enacted. However, in the event 
that such amendments conflict with this Policy and past City investment practices, the City may 
delay adherence to the new requirements when it is deemed in the best interest of the City to do so. 
23 of 134

--- page 24 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 5 of 10
Investment Policy
In such instances, after consultation with the City’s attorney, the Finance Director/ City Treasurer 
will present a recommended course of action to the City Council for approval. The authorized 
investments are described below. 
A.
United States Treasury notes, bonds, bills, or certificates of indebtedness, or those for which 
the full faith and credit of the United States are pledged for the payment of principal and 
interest. There is no limitation on the percentage of the portfolio that can be invested in this 
category. 
B.
Agency Mortgage-backed securities, backed by residential, multi-family or commercial 
mortgages, with a final maturity not exceeding five years from the date of trade settlement, 
that are issued of fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by a U.S. Federal agency or 
government sponsored enterprise, including but not limited to pass-throughs, collateralized 
mortgage obligations (CMO’s) and REMICs. The aggregate investment in these securities 
shall not exceed 20% of the City’s total portfolio and shall be rated in a rating category of 
“AA” or its equivalent or better by an NRSRO and have a maximum remaining maturity of 
five year or less. 
C.
Federal agency or United States government-sponsored enterprise (“GSE”) obligations, 
including those issued by or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by federal agencies 
or United States government-sponsored enterprises. The aggregate investment in federal 
agency securities/GSEs shall not exceed 70% of the City’s total portfolio, and the securities 
of any one federal agency/GSE shall not exceed 40% of the City’s total portfolio.
D. 
Medium-Term Notes issued by corporations organized and operating within the United States 
or by depository institutions licensed by the United States or any state and operating within 
the United States and rated at least “A” or the equivalent by an NRSRO. The aggregate 
investment in medium-term notes shall not exceed 30% of the City’s total portfolio, and no 
more than 5% of the City’s total portfolio shall be invested in the medium-term notes of any 
one issuer. 
E.
Non-negotiable Certificates of Deposit with a maturity not exceeding three years from the 
date of trade settlement, in state- or nationally-chartered banks or savings banks that are 
insured by the FDIC, subject to the limitations of California Government Code Section 
53638. Amounts in excess of FDIC insurance coverage shall be secured in accordance with 
California Government Code Section 53652. No more than 5% of the City’s total portfolio 
shall be invested in the deposits of any one bank. The aggregate investment in non-negotiable 
certificates of deposit shall not exceed 30% of the City’s total portfolio.   
                 F.
“Prime” commercial paper with a maturity not exceeding 270 days from the date of trade 
settlement with the highest ranking or of the highest letter and number rating as provided for 
by an NRSRO. The entity that issues the commercial paper shall meet all of the following 
conditions in either sub-paragraph A. or sub-paragraph B. below:
1) The entity shall (1) be organized and operating in the United States as a general 
corporation, (2) have total assets in excess of $500,000,000 and (3) have debt other 
than commercial paper, if any, that is rated at least “A” or the equivalent by an 
NRSRO.
24 of 134

--- page 25 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 6 of 10
Investment Policy
2) The entity shall (1) be organized within the United States as a special purpose 
corporation, trust, or limited liability company, (2) have program-wide credit 
enhancements, including, but not limited to, overcollateralization, letters of credit or 
surety bond; and (3) have commercial paper that is rated at least “A-1” or the 
equivalent by an NRSRO. 
The City may purchase no more than 10% of the outstanding commercial paper of any one 
issuer, and the aggregate investment in commercial paper shall not exceed 15% of the City’s 
total portfolio. Further, no more than 5% of the City’s total portfolio shall be invested in the 
commercial paper of any one issuer.
G.
Eligible Banker’s Acceptances with a maturity not exceeding 180 days from the date of trade 
settlement, rated at least “A-1” or the equivalent by an NRSRO, drawn on or accepted by a 
commercial bank, whose deposits are insured by the FDIC, and whose senior long-term debt 
is rated at least “A” or the equivalent by an NRSRO at the time of purchase. No more than 
5% of the City’s total portfolio shall be invested in banker’s acceptances of any one issuer, 
and the aggregate investment in banker’s acceptances shall not exceed 10% of the City’s total 
portfolio.
      H.
Repurchase Agreements with a final termination date not exceeding 90 days collateralized by 
obligations of the U.S. Treasury, federal agencies and/or government-sponsored enterprises 
(described in sections VII.A and VII.C above). For the purpose of this section, the term 
collateral shall mean purchased securities under the terms of the City’s approved Master 
Repurchase Agreement. The purchased securities shall have a minimum market value 
including accrued interest of 102% of the dollar value of the funds borrowed. All collateral 
must be delivered to the City’s custodian bank by book entry, physical delivery, or by a third-
party custodial agreement. The market value of the collateral securities shall be marked-to-
the-market at least quarterly, and the value of the underlying collateral must be brought back 
up to 102 percent no later than the next business day. Market value must be calculated each 
time there is a substitution of collateral. No more than 10% of the City’s total portfolio shall 
be invested in repurchase agreements with any one counterparty, and the aggregate 
investment in repurchase agreements shall not exceed 10% of the City’s total portfolio.
The City or its custodian shall have a perfected first security interest under the Uniform 
Commercial Code in all securities subject to Repurchase Agreement.
The City may enter into Repurchase Agreements only with primary dealers of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York. Approved Repurchase Agreement counterparties shall have a 
short-term credit rating of at least “A-1”, or the equivalent, and a long-term credit rating of 
at least “A”, or the equivalent, by a NRSRO. Repurchase agreement counterparties shall 
execute a City-approved Master Repurchase Agreement with the City. The Finance 
Director/City Treasurer shall maintain a copy of the City’s approved Master Repurchase 
Agreement along with a list of broker/dealers who have executed this agreement.
Reverse repurchase agreements will not be permitted.
I.
LOCAL AGENCY INVESTMENT FUND. The City may invest in the Local Agency 
Investment Fund (LAIF) established by the State Treasurer (per Government Code Section 
25 of 134

--- page 26 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 7 of 10
Investment Policy
16429.1) for the benefit of local agencies up to the maximum amount permitted by LAIF or 
65% of the market value of the City’s total portfolio, whichever is less.
J.
SAN MATEO COUNTY POOL. The City may invest in the San Mateo County Pool 
established by the San Mateo County Treasurer for the benefit of local agencies (as 
established in California Code Section 53684). No more than 30% of the market value of the 
City’s total portfolio may be invested in this category.
K.
CALIFORNIA ASSET MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.  The City may invest in the California 
Asset Management Program (CAMP) a California Joint Powers Authority established to 
provide California public agencies with professional investment services (California Code 
Section 53601 (p)).  No more than 20% of the market value of the City’s total portfolio may 
be invested in this category.
M.
Shares of beneficial interest issued by a diversified management company that are money 
market funds registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment 
Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. Sec. 80a-1 et seq.). Provided that the money market funds 
(1) are “no-load” (no commission or fee shall be charged on purchases or sales of shares); (2) 
have a constant daily net asset value per share of $1.00; (3) have a rating of “AAA” or the 
equivalent by at least two NRSROs or have retained an investment adviser registered or 
exempt from registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission with not less than 
five years’ experience managing money market mutual funds with assets under management 
in excess of five hundred million dollars ($500,000,000). No more than 10% of the City’s 
total portfolio shall be invested in any one issuer and the aggregate investment in money 
market funds shall not exceed 20% of the City’s total portfolio.
 
N.
Obligations of the State of California or any local agency within the state, including bonds 
payable solely out of revenues from a revenue-producing property owned, controlled, or 
operated by the state or any local agency or by a department, board, agency, or authority of 
the state or any local agency.  
Registered treasury notes or bonds of any of the other 49 states in addition to California, 
including bonds payable solely out of the revenues from a revenue-producing property 
owned, controlled, or operated by a state or by a department, board, agency, or authority of 
any of the other 49 states, in addition to California.
Securities in this section must have a short-term rating of “A-1” or the equivalent by an 
NRSRO or a long-term rating of “A” or the equivalent by an NRSRO. No more than 5% of 
the City’s total portfolio shall be invested in any one municipal issuer, and the aggregate 
investment in municipal bonds shall not exceed 20% of the City’s total portfolio.
O.
Negotiable certificates of deposit or deposit notes issued by a nationally- or state-chartered 
bank, a savings association or a federal association (as defined by Section 5102 of the 
Financial Code), a state or federal credit union, or by a federally-licensed or by a state-
licensed branch of a foreign bank. Eligible negotiable certificates of deposit shall be rated 
“A” for long-term, “A-1” for short-term, their equivalent, or higher by an NRSRO. No more 
than 5% of the City’s total portfolio shall be invested in the negotiable certificates of deposit 
of any one issuer, and the aggregate investment in negotiable certificates of deposit shall not 
exceed 30% of the City’s total portfolio.
26 of 134

--- page 27 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 8 of 10
Investment Policy
P. 
United States dollar denominated senior unsecured unsubordinated obligations issued or 
unconditionally guaranteed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 
International Finance Corporation, or Inter-American Development Bank, with a maximum 
remaining maturity of five years or less, and eligible for purchase and sale within the United 
States. Investments under this subdivision shall be rated in a rating category of “AA” or its 
equivalent or better by an NRSRO and shall not exceed 10 percent of the agency’s moneys 
that may be invested pursuant to this section.
Q. A mortgage passthrough security, collateralized mortgage obligation, mortgage-backed or 
other pay-through bond, equipment lease-backed certificate, consumer receivable passthrough 
certificate, or consumer receivable-backed bond. Securities eligible for investment under this 
subdivision shall be rated in a rating category of “AA” or its equivalent or better by an NRSRO 
and have a maximum remaining maturity of five years or less. No more than 5% of the 
agency’s total portfolio shall be invested in any one issuer. Purchase of securities authorized 
by this subdivision shall not exceed 10 percent of the agency’s total portfolio.
The foregoing list of authorized securities and transactions shall be strictly interpreted. Any 
deviation from this list must be approved in advance by resolution of the City Council.
NOTE 1: References throughout this document to “the City’s total portfolio” will be the market 
value of the portfolio at the time the specific security is purchased.
NOTE 2: Should the rating of any authorized investment subsequent to purchase fall below the 
requirement, the Finance Director/City Treasurer, or his/her designee, shall evaluate the downgrade 
on a case-by-case basis and determine whether the security should be held or sold. The Finance 
Director/City Treasurer shall apply the general objectives of safety, liquidity, and return on 
investment in making such determination. That determination shall be documented in the quarterly 
report. 
VIII. 
INVESTMENT DIVERSIFICATION
The City shall diversify its investments within the parameters of this Policy to avoid incurring 
unreasonable risks inherent in over-investing in specific instruments, individual financial 
institutions or maturities. Nevertheless, the asset allocation in the investment portfolio should be 
flexible depending upon the outlook for the economy, the securities markets, and the City’s 
anticipated cash flow needs. To meet its diversification objectives, no more than 5% of the City’s 
total portfolio may be invested in any one single issuer across the following sectors identified in 
Section VII: medium-term notes, non-negotiable certificates of deposit, prime commercial paper, 
eligible banker’s acceptances, state or municipal bonds, negotiable certificates of deposit, and asset-
backed and non-agency mortgage securities.  This means the aggregate investment, for example, in 
prime commercial paper and medium-term notes from a single issuer may not exceed a total of 5% 
of the City’s investment portfolio.  
IX.
SELECTION OF BROKER/DEALERS
The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall maintain a list of broker/dealers approved for investment 
purposes, and it shall be the policy of the City to conduct transactions only with those authorized 
firms. To be eligible, a firm must be licensed by the State of California as a broker/dealer as defined 
27 of 134

--- page 28 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 9 of 10
Investment Policy
in Section 25004 of the California Corporations Code, and: 
1.    Be recognized as a Primary Dealer by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or
2.    Report voluntarily to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or
3.
Qualify under Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule 15c3-1 (Uniform Net Capital 
Rule).
Each authorized broker/dealer shall be required to submit and annually update a City approved 
Broker/Dealer Information form. The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall maintain a list of the 
broker/dealers that have been approved by the City, along with each firm’s most recent 
Broker/Dealer Information Request form. 
If the City has not engaged the support services of an outside investment advisor while in the process 
of executing a particular transaction, the authorized broker/dealer(s) shall provide certification of 
having received and reviewed this Policy. For transactions initiated through an investment advisor, 
the investment advisor may use their own list of approved broker/dealers and financial institutions, 
which it will maintain and review periodically.
The City may purchase commercial paper from direct issuers even though they are not on the 
approved broker/dealer list as long as they meet the criteria outlined in Item F of the Authorized 
Investments section of this Policy.
X.
    COMPETITIVE TRANSACTIONS
Each investment transaction shall be competitively transacted with authorized broker/dealers. At 
least three broker/dealers shall be contacted for each transaction, and their bid and offering prices 
shall be recorded.
If the City is offered a security for which there is no other readily available competitive offering, 
then the Finance Director/City Treasurer will document quotations for comparable or alternative 
securities.
XI.
SELECTION OF BANKS
The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall maintain a list of banks approved to provide depository 
and other banking services for the City. To be eligible for authorization, a bank shall qualify as a 
depository of public funds in the State of California as defined in California Government Code 
Section 53630.5, shall be a member of the FDIC, and shall secure all deposits exceeding FDIC 
insurance coverage in accordance with California Government Code Section 53652.
XII.
SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY
The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall select a bank to provide safekeeping and custodial 
services for the City, in accordance with the provisions of Section 53608 of the California 
Government Code. A City-approved Safekeeping Agreement shall be executed with the custodian 
bank prior to utilizing that bank’s safekeeping services. The custodian bank will be selected on the 
basis of its ability to provide satisfactory safekeeping services and the competitive pricing of them.
28 of 134

--- page 29 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 10 of 10
Investment Policy
The purchase and sale of securities and repurchase agreement transactions shall be settled on a 
delivery-versus-payment basis. All securities shall be perfected in the name of the City. Sufficient 
evidence to title shall be consistent with modern investment, banking, and commercial practices.
All investment securities will be delivered by either book entry or physical delivery and will be held 
by the City’s custodian bank, its correspondent bank or its Depository Trust Company (DTC) 
participant account.
XIII.     PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE
The investment portfolio shall be designed to attain a market rate of return throughout budgetary 
and economic cycles, taking into account prevailing market conditions, risk constraints for eligible 
securities, and cash flow requirements. An appropriate benchmark or benchmarks will be 
established against which portfolio performance shall be compared on a regular basis. When 
comparing the performance of the City’s portfolio, its rate of return will be computed net of all fees 
and expenses.
 
XIV.
MONTHLY REPORTING
Monthly, the Finance Director/City Treasurer shall submit to the City Council a report of the 
investment earnings and performance results of the City’s investment portfolio. The report shall 
include the following information:
1.
Investment type, issuer, date of purchase and maturity, par value and dollar amount invested in 
all securities, and investments and monies held by the City;
2.
A description of the funds, investments and programs;
3.
A market value as of the date of the report (or the most recent valuation as to assets not valued 
monthly) and the source of the valuation;
4.
A statement of compliance with this Policy or an explanation for non-compliance; and
5.
A statement of the City’s ability to meet expenditure requirements for six months, and an 
explanation of why money will not be available if that is the case.
6.
A statement of transactions made during the month. 
XV.
INVESTMENT POLICY ADOPTION
This Investment Policy shall be adopted by resolution of the City Council.  The Policy shall be 
reviewed annually by the Investment Advisory Committee and any modifications made thereto must 
be approved by the City Council.
29 of 134

--- page 30 ---
ADOPTED – February 34, 2019
BY CITY COUNCIL
20192020
INVESTMENT POLICY
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
AND CITY OF SAN MATEO, ACTING AS SUCCESSOR AGENCY TO THE REDEVELOPMENT 
AGENCY OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
I.
SCOPE AND AUTHORITY
In accordance with the Charter of the City of San Mateo, (the “City”), the Finance Director/City 
Treasurer is responsible for investing the unexpended cash of the City and the Successor Agency to 
the Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Mateo (the “Successor Agency”) in the City 
Treasury. The authority governing investments for local agencies is set forth in the California 
Government Code Sections 53600 et. seq. 
This Investment Policy (the “Policy”) applies to all the investment activities of the City and the 
Successor Agency. The Policy will also apply to all other funds under the Finance Director/City 
Treasurer’s span of control unless specifically exempted by statute or ordinance.  All the invested 
financial assets are accounted for in the City’s fund accounting system which includes: General 
Fund, Special Revenue Funds, Capital Project Funds, Enterprise Funds, Debt Service Funds, 
Internal Service Funds, and Trust and Agency Funds.
All cash shall be pooled for investment purposes. The investment income derived from the pooled 
investment account shall be allocated to the contributing funds based upon the proportion of the 
respective average balances relative to the total pooled balance.  Investment income shall be 
distributed to the individual funds not less than annually.
II.
OBJECTIVES
City and Successor Agency funds shall be invested in accordance with all applicable City policies 
and codes, State statutes, and Federal regulations, and in a manner designed to accomplish the 
following objectives, which are listed in priority order:
A.
Safety of principal
The City shall seek to preserve principal by mitigating credit risk and market risk, as defined 
below:
1.
“Credit Risk” - the risk of loss due to failure of the issuer of a security or the diminished 
quality of its rating.
Credit risk shall be mitigated by diversifying the investment portfolio.
30 of 134

--- page 31 ---
2. “Market Risk” - the risk of market value fluctuations due to overall changes in the general 
level of interest rates.
Market risk shall be mitigated by limiting the average maturity of the City’s portfolio to 
three years and the maximum maturity of any one security in the portfolio to five years. 
The portfolio shall be structured with an adequate mix of highly liquid securities and 
those with maturities scheduled to meet major cash outflow requirements.
B.
Liquidity Standard 
To ensure sufficient liquidity in order to meet anticipated cash flow needs, a minimum of 
25% of the market value of the investment portfolio shall be invested in securities or deposits 
that have a remaining maturity of less than six (6) months.
C.
Return on investment 
The City’s investment portfolio shall be structured to attain a market-average rate of return 
through economic cycles. 
 
III.
DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY
In accordance with the City Charter, the City Manager delegates his/her authority over investment 
activities to the Finance Director/City Treasurer or his/her designee.  Staff members of the Finance 
Department’s Treasury Division may be assigned to perform the day-to-day treasury activities 
related to the investment of City funds. No person may engage in an investment transaction except 
as expressly provided under the terms of this Policy. 
The City may delegate its investment authority to an investment adviser registered under the 
Investment Advisers Act of 1940, so long as it can be demonstrated that these services produce a 
net financial advantage or necessary financial protection of the City’s financial resources. The 
adviser shall follow this Policy and such other written instructions as provided. Such delegation is 
subject to City review and overriding discretion which will be exercised as needed.
IV.
INTERNAL CONTROLS
The Finance Director/City Treasurer has established a system of internal controls to ensure 
compliance with the investment policies and procedures of the City, the Successor Agency, and the 
California Government Code. Such controls shall be designed to prevent losses of public funds 
arising from fraud, employee error, and misrepresentation by third parties, or imprudent actions by 
employees of the City. Investment decisions are made by the Finance Director/City Treasurer or 
his/her designee, anddesignee and executed by staff of the Finance Department’s Treasury Division. 
All wire transfers initiated by Finance Department staff members must be approved and transmitted 
by the Finance Director/City Treasurer or his/her designee. Proper documentation obtained from 
confirmation and cash disbursement wire transfers is required for each investment transaction. 
Timely bank reconciliation is conducted to ensure proper handling of all transactions.
The investment portfolio and all related transactions are reviewed and balanced to appropriate 
general ledger accounts by senior finance staff on a monthly basis. An independent analysis by an 
external auditor shall be conducted annually to review and perform procedure testing on the City’s 
cash and investments. The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall review and assure compliance with 
investment processes and procedures. 
31 of 134

--- page 32 ---
V.
ETHICS AND CONFLICT OF INTEREST
In accordance with California Government Code Sections 1090 et seq. and 87100 et seq., officers 
and employees of the City will refrain from any activity that could conflict with the proper execution 
of the investment program or which could impair their ability to make impartial investment 
decisions, and all investment personnel shall subordinate their personal investment transactions to 
those of the City. In addition, City Council members, the City Manager, and Finance Director/City 
Treasurer, shall comply with the reporting requirements of California Government Code Section 
87203 and regulations of the Fair Political Practices Commission and file a Statement of Economic 
Interest annually. 
VI.
PRUDENT INVESTOR STANDARD
The standard of prudence to be used for managing the City’s investments shall be California 
Government Code Section 53600.3, the prudent investor standard, which states that “When 
investing, reinvesting, purchasing, acquiring, exchanging, selling, or managing public funds, a 
trustee shall act with care, skill, prudence, and diligence under the circumstances then prevailing, 
including, but not limited to, the general economic conditions and the anticipated needs of the 
agency, that a prudent person acting in a like capacity and familiarity with those matters would use 
in the conduct of funds of a like character and with like aims, to safeguard the principal and maintain 
the liquidity needs of the agency.”
The City recognizes that market prices of securities will vary depending on economic and interest 
rate conditions at any point in time. It is further recognized, that in a well-diversified investment 
portfolio, occasional measured losses may occur due to economic, bond market, or individual 
security credit events. These occasional declines in value must be considered within the context of 
the overall investment program objectives and the resultant long-term rate of return.
The Finance Director/City Treasurer and other individuals assigned to manage the investment 
portfolio, acting within the intent and scope of this Policy and other written procedures and 
exercising due diligence, shall be relieved of personal responsibility and liability for an individual 
security’s credit risk or market price changes, provided deviations from expectations are reported 
in a timely manner and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
VII.
AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS
All investments and deposits of the City shall be made in accordance with California Government 
Code Sections 16429.1, 53600-53609, and 53630-53686. Any amendments to these code sections 
will be assumed to be part of this Policy immediately upon being enacted. However, in the event 
that such amendments conflict with this Policy and past City investment practices, the City may 
delay adherence to the new requirements when it is deemed in the best interest of the City to do so. 
In such instances, after consultation with the City’s attorney, the Finance Director/ City Treasurer 
will present a recommended course of action to the City Council for approval. The authorized 
investments are described below. 
A.
United States Treasury notes, bonds, bills, or certificates of indebtedness, or those for which 
the full faith and credit of the United States are pledged for the payment of principal and 
interest. There is no limitation on the percentage of the portfolio that can be invested in this 
category. 
B.
Agency Mortgage-backed securities, backed by residential, multi-family or commercial 
mortgages, with a final maturity not exceeding five years from the date of trade settlement, 
32 of 134

--- page 33 ---
that are issued of fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by a U.S. Federal agency or 
government sponsored enterprise, including but not limited to pass-throughs, collateralized 
mortgage obligations (CMO’s) and REMICs. The aggregate investment in these securities 
shall not exceed 20% of the City’s total portfolio and shall be rated in a rating category of 
“AA” or its equivalent or better by an NRSRO and have a maximum remaining maturity of 
five year or less. 
C.
Federal agency or United States government-sponsored enterprise (“GSE”) obligations, 
including those issued by or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by federal agencies 
or United States government-sponsored enterprises. The aggregate investment in federal 
agency securities/GSEs shall not exceed 70% of the City’s total portfolio, and the securities 
of any one federal agency/GSE shall not exceed 40% of the City’s total portfolio.
D. 
Medium-Term Notes issued by corporations organized and operating within the United States 
or by depository institutions licensed by the United States or any state and operating within 
the United States and rated at least “A” or the equivalent by an NRSRO. The aggregate 
investment in medium-term notes shall not exceed 30% of the City’s total portfolio, and no 
more than 5% of the City’s total portfolio shall be invested in the medium-term notes of any 
one issuer. 
E.
Non-negotiable Certificates of Deposit with a maturity not exceeding three years from the 
date of trade settlement, in state- or nationally-chartered banks or savings banks that are 
insured by the FDIC, subject to the limitations of California Government Code Section 
53638. Amounts in excess of FDIC insurance coverage shall be secured in accordance with 
California Government Code Section 53652. No more than 5% of the City’s total portfolio 
shall be invested in the deposits of any one bank. The aggregate investment in non-negotiable 
certificates of deposit shall not exceed 30% of the City’s total portfolio.   
                 F.
“Prime” commercial paper with a maturity not exceeding 270 days from the date of trade 
settlement with the highest ranking or of the highest letter and number rating as provided for 
by an NRSRO. The entity that issues the commercial paper shall meet all of the following 
conditions in either sub-paragraph A. or sub-paragraph B. below:
1) The entity shall (1) be organized and operating in the United States as a general 
corporation, (2) have total assets in excess of $500,000,000 and (3) have debt other 
than commercial paper, if any, that is rated at least “A” or the equivalent by an 
NRSRO.
2) The entity shall (1) be organized within the United States as a special purpose 
corporation, trust, or limited liability company, (2) have program-wide credit 
enhancements, including, but not limited to, overcollateralization, letters of credit or 
surety bond; and (3) have commercial paper that is rated at least “A-1” or the 
equivalent by an NRSRO. 
The City may purchase no more than 10% of the outstanding commercial paper of any one 
issuer, and the aggregate investment in commercial paper shall not exceed 15% of the City’s 
total portfolio. Further, no more than 5% of the City’s total portfolio shall be invested in the 
commercial paper of any one issuer.
G.
Eligible Banker’s Acceptances with a maturity not exceeding 180 days from the date of trade 
settlement, rated at least “A-1” or the equivalent by an NRSRO, drawn on or accepted by a 
commercial bank, whose deposits are insured by the FDIC, and whose senior long-term debt 
is rated at least “A” or the equivalent by an NRSRO at the time of purchase. No more than 
33 of 134

--- page 34 ---
5% of the City’s total portfolio shall be invested in banker’s acceptances of any one issuer, 
and the aggregate investment in banker’s acceptances shall not exceed 10% of the City’s total 
portfolio.
      H.
Repurchase Agreements with a final termination date not exceeding 90 days collateralized by 
obligations of the U.S. Treasury, federal agencies and/or government-sponsored enterprises 
(described in sections VII.A and VII.C above). For the purpose of this section, the term 
collateral shall mean purchased securities under the terms of the City’s approved Master 
Repurchase Agreement. The purchased securities shall have a minimum market value 
including accrued interest of 102% of the dollar value of the funds borrowed. All collateral 
must be delivered to the City’s custodian bank by book entry, physical delivery, or by a third 
partythird-party custodial agreement. The market value of the collateral securities shall be 
marked-to-the-market at least quarterly, and the value of the underlying collateral must be 
brought back up to 102 percent no later than the next business day. Market value must be 
calculated each time there is a substitution of collateral. No more than 10% of the City’s total 
portfolio shall be invested in repurchase agreements with any one counterparty, and the 
aggregate investment in repurchase agreements shall not exceed 10% of the City’s total 
portfolio.
The City or its custodian shall have a perfected first security interest under the Uniform 
Commercial Code in all securities subject to Repurchase Agreement.
The City may enter into Repurchase Agreements only with primary dealers of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York. Approved Repurchase Agreement counterparties shall have a 
short-term credit rating of at least “A-1”, or the equivalent, and a long-term credit rating of 
at least “A”, or the equivalent, by a NRSRO. Repurchase agreement counterparties shall 
execute a City-approved Master Repurchase Agreement with the City. The Finance 
Director/City Treasurer shall maintain a copy of the City’s approved Master Repurchase 
Agreement along with a list of broker/dealers who have executed this agreement.
Reverse repurchase agreements will not be permitted.
I.
LOCAL AGENCY INVESTMENT FUND. The City may invest in the Local Agency 
Investment Fund (LAIF) established by the State Treasurer (per Government Code Section 
16429.1) for the benefit of local agencies up to the maximum amount permitted by LAIF or 
65% of the market value of the City’s total portfolio, whichever is less.
J.
SAN MATEO COUNTY POOL. The City may invest in the San Mateo County Pool 
established by the San Mateo County Treasurer for the benefit of local agencies (as 
established in California Code Section 53684). No more than 30% of the market value of the 
City’s total portfolio may be invested in this category.
K.
CALIFORNIA ASSET MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.  The City may invest in the California 
Asset Management Program (CAMP) a California Joint Powers Authority established to 
provide California public agencies with professional investment services (California Code 
Section 53601 (p)).  No more than 20% of the market value of the City’s total portfolio may 
be invested in this category.
M.
Shares of beneficial interest issued by a diversified management company that are money 
market funds registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment 
Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. Sec. 80a-1 et seq.). Provided that the money market funds 
(1) are “no-load” (no commission or fee shall be charged on purchases or sales of shares); (2) 
have a constant daily net asset value per share of $1.00; (3) have a rating of “AAA” or the 
34 of 134

--- page 35 ---
equivalent by at least two NRSROs or have retained an investment adviser registered or 
exempt from registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission with not less than 
five years’ experience managing money market mutual funds with assets under management 
in excess of five hundred million dollars ($500,000,000). No more than 10% of the City’s 
total portfolio shall be invested in any one issuer and the aggregate investment in money 
market funds shall not exceed 20% of the City’s total portfolio.
 
N.
Obligations of the State of California or any local agency within the state, including bonds 
payable solely out of revenues from a revenue-producing property owned, controlled, or 
operated by the state or any local agency or by a department, board, agency, or authority of 
the state or any local agency.  
Registered treasury notes or bonds of any of the other 49 states in addition to California, 
including bonds payable solely out of the revenues from a revenue-producing property 
owned, controlled, or operated by a state or by a department, board, agency, or authority of 
any of the other 49 states, in addition to California.
Securities in this section must have a short-term rating of “A-1” or the equivalent by an 
NRSRO or a long-term rating of “A” or the equivalent by an NRSRO. No more than 5% of 
the City’s total portfolio shall be invested in any one municipal issuer, and the aggregate 
investment in municipal bonds shall not exceed 20% of the City’s total portfolio.
O.
Negotiable certificates of deposit or deposit notes issued by a nationally- or state-chartered 
bank, a savings association or a federal association (as defined by Section 5102 of the 
Financial Code), a state or federal credit union, or by a federally-licensed or by a state-
licensed branch of a foreign bank. Eligible negotiable certificates of deposit shall be rated 
“A” for long-term, “A-1” for short-term, their equivalent, or higher by an NRSRO. No more 
than 5% of the City’s total portfolio shall be invested in the negotiable certificates of deposit 
of any one issuer, and the aggregate investment in negotiable certificates of deposit shall not 
exceed 30% of the City’s total portfolio.
P. 
United States dollar denominated senior unsecured unsubordinated obligations issued or 
unconditionally guaranteed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 
International Finance Corporation, or Inter-American Development Bank, with a maximum 
remaining maturity of five years or less, and eligible for purchase and sale within the United 
States. Investments under this subdivision shall be rated in a rating category of “AA” or its 
equivalent or better by an NRSRO and shall not exceed 10 percent of the agency’s moneys 
that may be invested pursuant to this section.
Q. A mortgage passthrough security, collateralized mortgage obligation, mortgage-backed or 
other pay-through bond, equipment lease-backed certificate, consumer receivable passthrough 
certificate, or consumer receivable-backed bond. Securities eligible for investment under this 
subdivision shall be rated in a rating category of “AA” or its equivalent or better by an NRSRO 
and have a maximum remaining maturity of five years or less. No more than 5% of the 
agency’s total portfolio shall be invested in any one issuer. Purchase of securities authorized 
by this subdivision shall not exceed 10 percent of the agency’s total portfolio.
The foregoing list of authorized securities and transactions shall be strictly interpreted. Any 
deviation from this list must be approved in advance by resolution of the City Council.
NOTE 1: References throughout this document to “the City’s total portfolio” will be the market 
value of the portfolio at the time the specific security is purchased.
35 of 134

--- page 36 ---
NOTE 2: Should the rating of any authorized investment subsequent to purchase fall below the 
requirement, the Finance Director/City Treasurer, or his/her designee, shall evaluate the downgrade 
on a case-by-case basis and determine whether the security should be held or sold. The Finance 
Director/City Treasurer shall apply the general objectives of safety, liquidity, and return on 
investment in making such determination. That determination shall be documented in the quarterly 
report. 
VIII. 
INVESTMENT DIVERSIFICATION
The City shall diversify its investments within the parameters of this Policy to avoid incurring 
unreasonable risks inherent in over-investing in specific instruments, individual financial 
institutions or maturities. Nevertheless, the asset allocation in the investment portfolio should be 
flexible depending upon the outlook for the economy, the securities markets, and the City’s 
anticipated cash flow needs. To meet its diversification objectives, no more than 5% of the City’s 
total portfolio may be invested in any one single issuer across the following sectors identified in 
Section VII: medium-term notes, non-negotiable certificates of deposit, prime commercial paper, 
eligible banker’s acceptances, state or municipal bonds, and negotiable certificates of deposit, and 
asset-backed and non-agency mortgage securities.  This means the aggregate investment, for 
example, in prime commercial paper and medium-term notes from a single issuer may not exceed a 
total of 5% of the City’s investment portfolio.  
IX.
SELECTION OF BROKER/DEALERS
The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall maintain a list of broker/dealers approved for investment 
purposes, and it shall be the policy of the City to conduct transactions only with those authorized 
firms. To be eligible, a firm must be licensed by the State of California as a broker/dealer as defined 
in Section 25004 of the California Corporations Code, and: 
1.    Be recognized as a Primary Dealer by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or
2.    Report voluntarily to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or
3.
Qualify under Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule 15c3-1 (Uniform Net Capital 
Rule).
Each authorized broker/dealer shall be required to submit and annually update a City approved 
Broker/Dealer Information form. The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall maintain a list of the 
broker/dealers that have been approved by the City, along with each firm’s most recent 
Broker/Dealer Information Request form. 
If the City has not engaged the support services of an outside investment advisor while in the process 
of executing a particular transaction, the authorized broker/dealer(s) shall provide certification of 
having received and reviewed this Policy. For transactions initiated through an investment advisor, 
the investment advisor may use their own list of approved broker/dealers and financial institutions, 
which it will maintain and review periodically.
The City may purchase commercial paper from direct issuers even though they are not on the 
approved broker/dealer list as long as they meet the criteria outlined in Item F of the Authorized 
Investments section of this Policy.
X.
    COMPETITIVE TRANSACTIONS
Each investment transaction shall be competitively transacted with authorized broker/dealers. At 
least three broker/dealers shall be contacted for each transaction, and their bid and offering prices 
shall be recorded.
36 of 134

--- page 37 ---
If the City is offered a security for which there is no other readily available competitive offering, 
then the Finance Director/City Treasurer will document quotations for comparable or alternative 
securities.
XI.
SELECTION OF BANKS
The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall maintain a list of banks approved to provide depository 
and other banking services for the City. To be eligible for authorization, a bank shall qualify as a 
depository of public funds in the State of California as defined in California Government Code 
Section 53630.5, shall be a member of the FDIC, and shall secure all deposits exceeding FDIC 
insurance coverage in accordance with California Government Code Section 53652.
XII.
SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY
The Finance Director/City Treasurer shall select a bank to provide safekeeping and custodial 
services for the City, in accordance with the provisions of Section 53608 of the California 
Government Code. A City-approved Safekeeping Agreement shall be executed with the custodian 
bank prior to utilizing that bank’s safekeeping services. The custodian bank will be selected on the 
basis of its ability to provide satisfactory safekeeping services and the competitive pricing of them.
The purchase and sale of securities and repurchase agreement transactions shall be settled on a 
delivery-versus-payment basis. All securities shall be perfected in the name of the City. Sufficient 
evidence to title shall be consistent with modern investment, banking, and commercial practices.
All investment securities will be delivered by either book entry or physical delivery and will be held 
by the City’s custodian bank, its correspondent bank or its Depository Trust Company (DTC) 
participant account.
XIII.     PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE
The investment portfolio shall be designed to attain a market rate of return throughout budgetary 
and economic cycles, taking into account prevailing market conditions, risk constraints for eligible 
securities, and cash flow requirements. An appropriate benchmark or benchmarks will be 
established against which portfolio performance shall be compared on a regular basis. When 
comparing the performance of the City’s portfolio, its rate of return will be computed net of all fees 
and expenses.
 
XIV.
MONTHLY REPORTING
Monthly, the Finance Director/City Treasurer shall submit to the City Council a report of the 
investment earnings and performance results of the City’s investment portfolio. The report shall 
include the following information:
1.
Investment type, issuer, date of purchase and maturity, par value and dollar amount invested in 
all securities, and investments and monies held by the City;
2.
A description of the funds, investments and programs;
3.
A market value as of the date of the report (or the most recent valuation as to assets not valued 
monthly) and the source of the valuation;
4.
A statement of compliance with this Policy or an explanation for non-compliance; and
5.
A statement of the City’s ability to meet expenditure requirements for six months, and an 
explanation of why money will not be available if that is the case.
5.6.A statement of transactions made during the month. 
37 of 134

--- page 38 ---
XV.
INVESTMENT POLICY ADOPTION
This Investment Policy shall be adopted by resolution of the City Council.  The Policy shall be 
reviewed annually by the Investment Advisory Committee and any modifications made thereto must 
be approved by the City Council.
38 of 134

--- page 39 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2412
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
February 03, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Basin 2 and 3 Collection System Improvements Project – Right of Entry Permit Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a Right of Entry Permit Agreement with Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board and the San Mateo County Transit 
District for Basin 2 and 3 Collection System Improvements Project in the amount of $3,250 and authorize the Public Works 
Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The Basin 2 and 3 Collection System Improvements Project (Project) is part of the Clean Water Program and consists of 
several pipeline projects located in the southern area of the City. The Project includes rehabilitation of an existing 24-inch 
sewer that extends underneath the Caltrain Hillsdale Station parking lot from the intersection of Pacific Boulevard and 
Delaware Street to El Camino Real. The sewer will be lined with trenchless Cure-In-Place Pipe (CIPP) lining underneath the 
railroad right-of-way. To implement the work located in the railroad right-of-way, the City needs to enter into a Right of 
Entry Permit Agreement with the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board and the San Mateo County Transit District.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the Basin 2 and 3 Collection System Improvements Project (46S003) to approve the Right 
of Entry Permit Agreement.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The Basin 2 and 3 Collection Systems Project is being undertaken as part of the City’s the Clean Water Program. On June 6, 
2016, the City Council certified the Final Programmatic Environmental Report (PEIR) for the Clean Water Program. Under 
sections 15162 and 15168 of the CEQA Guidelines, the Project will not result in new effects and no new mitigation 
measures would be required and is therefore within the scope of the Final PEIR for the Clean Water Program.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Right of Entry Permit Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Deryk Daquigan, Engineering Manager
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7287
39 of 134

--- page 40 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Azalea Mitch, Deputy Director
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7309
40 of 134

--- page 41 ---
<div><div>&nbsp;<div style="text-align: right;"><br /><br /><br /><span style="font-size:11pt;"><span sty

--- page 42 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2415
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
February 03, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Marina Lagoon Vegetation and Water Quality Management - Professional Services Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with Waterworks Industries, Inc. for Marina Lagoon Vegetation and Water Quality Management in 
the amount of $935,656 for a three-year agreement with the option of two, one-year extensions; establish a contingency 
of $93,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and 
issue change orders within the contingency amount.  
BACKGROUND:
The City uses professional services to provide vegetation control and water quality management of the Marina Lagoon. 
The work includes control of nuisance plant growth, monitoring, and reporting and relies on the professional expertise of 
the consultant to formulate an effective control strategy compliant with water quality regulations. The aquatic nuisance 
growth season typically extends from April through September each year with winter storm clean-up requiring additional 
work.  Solitude Lake Management, formerly Aquatic Environments Inc. (Solitude) provided these services for nearly two 
decades. The agreement with Solitude for the management of the Marina Lagoon expired December 31, 2019. 
A Request for Proposals (RFP) was issued on November 1, 2019.  In addition to the published notice, the RFP was posted 
on the City website and provided to interested parties.  The RFP required each consultant to provide a detailed plan for 
management of the lagoon including an integrated control strategy (i.e., chemical and mechanical control methods), 
personnel and machinery dedicated to the plan, monitoring and reporting tasks, and a cost for the proposed control plan. 
Staff received and reviewed proposals from 1) Solitude, 2) Waterworks Industries, Inc. (Waterworks), and 3) Clean 
Lakes, Inc.  Based on the review of proposals, staff interviewed Solitude and Waterworks.  Staff recommends awarding the 
agreement to Waterworks for the following reasons.
1.
Waterworks displayed more technical knowledge to provide better long-term solutions for managing the lagoon 
water quality and beneficial uses.
2.
Waterworks and their sub-consultant have working relationships with the regulatory agencies and can assist us 
with upcoming permit changes.
3.
Waterworks demonstrated a superior understanding of compliance regulations for maintaining the lagoon.  
4.
Waterworks is a local company and staff expects better communications and attention to the City’s needs.
5.
Waterworks is prepared to engage with the community to address any concerns in an expedient manner.
6.
Waterworks has decades of local experience successfully managing Redwood Shores and lagoons in Sonoma 
County.
Staff has gained support from the community through discussions with key representatives from the Marina Lagoon Action 
42 of 134

--- page 43 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Committee, Mariner’s Green Association, and Harbortown Homeowners Association. With the assistance of these 
community members, a meeting is being planned with the affected HOA’s for the spring to further communicate our 
change in contractors and introduce Waterworks’ representatives. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The first year of the agreement is $176,235.  This amount will increase annually by CPI (maximum 3%), beginning in year 
two, with the total three-year agreement plus two one-year options to extend in an amount not to exceed $935,656. 
Sufficient funds are budgeted in the Marina Lagoon Management program (General Fund) to fund this agreement on an 
annual basis.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Under sections 15301 and 15308 of the CEQA Guidelines, the Vegetation Management and Water Quality Management 
Agreement is categorically exempt from CEQA review because it consists of the operation and maintenance of existing 
public facilities involving negligible or no expansion of use, and is an action taken by a regulatory agency to assure the 
maintenance, restoration, enhancement, or protection of the environment. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Sarah Scheidt, Regulatory Compliance Manager, WWTP (Environmental Services Division)
sscheidt@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7385
Matthew Zucca, Deputy Director
mzucca@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7308
43 of 134

--- page 44 ---
AGREEMENT WITH WATERWORKS INDUSTRIES, INC 
FOR PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 
FOR 
Marina Lagoon Vegetation and Water Quality Management  
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and Waterworks Industries, Inc., a corporation, (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 930 Shiloh 
Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492: 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain professional services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these professional services by reason of 
its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT has offered to provide 
the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT. 
 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
44 of 134

--- page 45 ---
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on February 10, 2020 and 
be completed on or about December 31, 2022. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
of $539,730, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by 
reference. 
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
45 of 134

--- page 46 ---
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent CONSULTANT as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness or willful misconduct to the maximum extent permitted 
by state law.  To the extent permitted by Civil Code section 2782.8, CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
 
46 of 134

--- page 47 ---
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the 
same or of any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of 
any fee or other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any 
preceding breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement 
or of any applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 – SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
sub-consultants shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
47 of 134

--- page 48 ---
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Sarah Scheidt 
City of San Mateo 
1949 Pacific Blvd. 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
Waterworks Industries. Inc. 
Attn:  Tyler Fowler 
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D 
Windsor, CA 95492 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
48 of 134

--- page 49 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY and CONSULTANT have executed this Agreement the day and year 
first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Brad B. Underwood  
Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
Name_________________________________ 
Its Authorized Agent 
Title__________________________________ 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
Caio Arellano 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
Name_________________________________ 
 
Title__________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Payment Rates 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
49 of 134

--- page 50 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 1 
Exhibit A 
Scope of Services  
We understand that the City of San Mateo (“City”) is seeking qualified consultants capable of providing 
professional vegetation and water quality management services for the Marina Lagoon. It is our intent, 
with the submission of this Statement of Qualifications and Proposal, to offer our services for this project. 
Waterworks Industries Inc. intends to subcontract with Blankinship & Associates, Inc. to together provide 
the City with the highest quality service for scope items outlined in the RFP. Through Waterworks 
Industries Inc. Blankinship & Associates, Inc. will be responsible for water quality monitoring and 
regulatory compliance with the Aquatic Weed NPDES Permit (“Permit”) and CDFW Streambed 
Alteration Agreement No. 1600-2013-0268-R3 for Routine Maintenance Activities (“Agreement”).  
Waterworks Industries Inc. is very familiar with the challenges presented by lagoon systems as we have 
been managing Redwood Shores Lagoon, Marin Lagoon and Point Tiburon Lagoon for decades. With 
lagoons you always have to be prepared for conditions that are ever changing and can fluctuate greatly 
depending on the weather and the inflow water conditions. There is also challenges with invasive species 
and algae specific to brackish water systems, which we have run into several times and have always found 
the solutions to manage. An additional area Waterworks Industries Inc. has specialized services in is 
pump and tidal gate maintenance, installation, and replacement which is crucial for lagoon operation and 
ensuring NPDES permit compliance. We also have experience in lagoon dredging which is an ongoing 
maintenance issue with the lagoons we have managed.   
Team Organizational Structure 
Project Management Team for Marina Lagoon 
Project Staff 
Title 
Management Team 
Responsibility   
Qualifications and Licenses 
Richard Carnation 
CEO 
Project Oversight 
State of California, Department of 
Pesticide Regulation,  
Qualified Applicator License # QAL 
102543 – Category C, F 
Tyler Fowler 
Regulatory 
Compliance and Lake 
Manager  
Project Lead / Project 
Coordinator /  Licensed 
Applicator   
State of California, Department of 
Pesticide Regulation, 
Qualified Applicator License # QAL 
108730 – Category F 
NALMS Certified Lake Manager  
Arie Bornstein 
Project Manager 
Licensed Applicator 
State of California, Department of 
Pesticide Regulation, 
Qualified Applicator License # QAL 
153022 – Category F 
Waterworks Industries Trained 
Harvester Operator 
Waterworks Industries Trained 
MPAV Operator 
John Sarmiento 
Equipment Operator 
Equipment Operator 
Waterworks Industries Trained 
Harvester Operator 
50 of 134

--- page 51 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 2 
 
Waterworks Industries Trained 
MPAV Operator 
Mike Blankenship  
(Subcontractor) 
Principal Scientist 
Pest Control 
Recommendations /  CDFW 
Agreement Support 
Licensed DPR Pest Control Adviser 
(PCA) 
Stephen Burkholder 
(Subcontractor) 
Project Management 
and Senior Biologist  
 
CDFW Agreement Support / 
Water quality monitoring and 
regulatory compliance 
Licensed PCA and Certified Crop 
Adviser (CCA) and holds a DPR 
Qualified Applicator License (QAL) 
Steve Metzger 
(Subcontractor) 
Project Scientist  
Water quality monitoring and 
regulatory compliance 
 
Specialist in Geographic Information 
Systems (GIS)  
Alyssa Nagai 
(Subcontractor) 
Staff Scientist  
Water quality monitoring and 
regulatory compliance 
 
BS in Environmental Toxicology 
Rebecca Carnation  
Service Technician / 
Licensed Applicator   
Technical Specialist 
State of California, Department of 
Pesticide Regulation, 
Qualified Applicator License # QAL 
124333 Category F  
Jason Young  
Equipment Operator / 
Licensed Applicator  
Equipment Operator 
Certified Diver # 9606197162 
Waterworks Industries Trained 
Harvester Operator 
Juan Rodarte  
Field Technician  
Inspections and debris removal  
Waterworks Industries Trained 
Harvester Operator 
Fabricator / Welder 
Waterworks Industries Trained 
Mechanic  
 
 
Routine Inspection and Ambient Monitoring   
 
Following the scope of work, Waterworks Industries Inc. would perform regular surveys and inspections 
of the lagoon at a minimum of once per week from April 1st – September 30th in which the entire lagoon 
will be surveyed for aquatic weed growth using aquatic 
plant mapping software as well as physical grab samples. 
This will ensure that the City has a constant and accurate 
assessment of lagoon conditions with respect to the 
emergence of nuisance 
growth of aquatic plants 
and their real time 
impact on lagoon 
conditions. Waterworks 
Industries Inc. will 
perform more frequent inspections and monitoring contingent upon the 
duration and intensity of nuisance growth in the lagoon. Water quality 
measurements for temperature, salinity (EC), and turbidity along with 
visual inspections of water quality and indicators of pollution (oil sheen, 
color, scum, etc.) will be performed during these inspections and will be 
recorded on our weekly monitoring and service forms.  
 
During the scheduled weekly visits Waterworks Industries Inc. will inspect the entire lagoon for trash and 
debris in the water and along the banks. All trash will be removed using our fleet of boats with hand labor 
and tools which are outlined in the equipment section below. If larger debris is present in the lagoon 
51 of 134

--- page 52 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 3 
 
Waterworks Industries Inc. will utilize our boat mounted crane or mobilize one of our multipurpose 
aquatic vessels for the removal. Material that is removed from the lagoon will be sorted and recycled into 
the appropriate recycling class at the designated staging and offloading area. Waterworks Industries Inc. 
understands that all recyclable materials must be recycled.  
 
Mechanical Control Methods  
 
If Waterworks Industries Inc. identifies that an area has reached the threshold sparse (0-25% cover), 
moderate (>25-50% cover), dense (>50-75% cover), or very 
dense (>75-100% cover), for needing mechanical aquatic 
weed control we will notify the City of San Mateo and advise 
which mechanical control method should be used such as 
harvesting. One harvester will be dedicated to Marina Lagoon 
at all times for the duration of the nuisance growth season. If 
the City of San Mateo approves the recommended mechanical 
control, Waterworks Industries Inc. will provide skilled staff 
and state of the art equipment which features Tier 4 and 4i 
diesel engines to comply with current EPA and California 
emissions requirements. Waterworks Industries Inc. will also 
provide all other materials required to perform work safely 
and in a timely manner, pursuant to local, state and federal laws, and in accordance with the City’s 
Aquatic Pesticides Application Plan (APAP). If mechanical harvesting does occur on the lagoon it is 
understood that the aquatic vegetation as well as any floating material collected at public beaches, private 
dock areas, and along shorelines can be stockpiled in a location designated by the City of San Mateo so 
that it can dry out and then be hauled off for disposal. Waterworks Industries Inc. will not stockpile the 
vegetation for more than forty eight (48) hours. 
Waterworks Industries Inc. will keep daily records 
(attached mechanical form) of any mechanical work 
performed on the lagoon to help the City document 
the types, quantities, and locations of the various 
mechanical control methods employed.  
Below (on pages 10-11) is Waterworks Industries 
Inc.’s company owned and operated mechanical 
equipment fleet. All equipment listed is available for 
the Marina Lagoon project. Waterworks Industries 
Inc. has mechanics on staff which are designated for 
working only on our mechanical equipment fleet. At Waterworks Industries Inc. we pride our company in 
having all of our equipment in pristine condition when it is mobilized and that we have a library of spare 
parts needed for prompt repairs and trained mechanics on site to perform them. If any item of equipment 
needs significant repair it will be replaced immediately to ensure the City of San Mateo that if there is any 
down time it will be minimal and will have zero impact on completing projects in a timely and efficient 
manner. Waterworks Industries Inc. will fill out the designated forms attached to this proposal to keep 
records of all mechanical harvesting performed on the lagoon which will be used for record keeping.  
 
CDFW Agreement Support 
 
Preparation and implementation of a coordinated plan for conducting Nesting Bird Surveys, Sensitive 
Plant Surveys, and establishing associated buffers, monitoring, and CDFW coordination, as needed, and 
in compliance with Streambed Alteration Agreement, including providing an approved biologist to 
conduct required surveys, monitoring, training, and assist with associated reporting. 
 
52 of 134

--- page 53 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 4 
 
Nesting bird surveys will be conducted no more than 15 days prior to commencement of aquatic 
vegetation harvesting during the nesting bird season. Per the City’s CDFW Agreement, nesting 
bird season is defined as March 15 to August 30 for small bird species, and February 15 to 
September 15 for raptors.  
 
We will consult with CDFW and United States Fish and Wildlife Service, as appropriate, if active 
nests are encountered in areas that may be affected by project activities. Active nest buffers 
consistent with Section 2.22 of the Agreement will be established and nests will be monitored 
until project activities are complete or the young have fledged.  
 
We will provide a Worker Environmental Awareness Program (WEAP) training event for 
Waterworks staff prior to commencement of any routine maintenance activity within or near the 
saline emergent wetlands. The WEAP will include training on how to identify species of concern, 
their typical habitat and life history, RMA terms and conditions, and procedures to follow if 
special status species are encountered.  
 
Aquatic herbicide and algaecide treatments  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
Waterworks Industries Inc. has been managing lakes, reservoirs, ponds, rivers, lagoons, and 
wetlands and have provided treatments using EPA 
(Environmental Protection Agency) and DPR 
(Department of Pesticide Regulation) approved aquatic 
herbicides and algaecides for over twenty five (25) 
years. Following routine lagoon inspections in the 
spring of each year Waterworks Industries Inc. would 
notify the City of San Mateo of the need for a 
treatment. Following approval and proper public 
notice, Waterworks Industries Inc. would perform 
fluridone treatments in designated areas as soon as the 
widgeon grass reaches a threshold of sparse (0-25% 
cover). For summer, fall, and areas not designated for 
fluridone treatment Waterworks Industries Inc. would 
determine if aquatic weeds and or algae are reaching nuisance levels that have the potential to 
impact the beneficial uses of the lagoon which would be a threshold of moderate (>25-50% 
cover) to dense (>50-75% cover). If this threshold is met Waterworks Industries Inc. would notify 
the City of San Mateo of the need for a treatment. Following approval and proper public notice 
these treatments would be performed using an herbicide with the active ingredient diquat. Algae 
infestations would be reported to the City of San Mateo if Waterworks Industries Inc. believes the 
algae is impacting the beneficial uses of the lagoon. Following approval and proper public notice 
treatments algae would be treated with products containing the active ingredients Sodium 
Carbonate Peroxyhydrate, Copper, Hydrogen Dioxide and Peroxyacetic Acid.   
Waterworks Industries Inc. has had extensive success controlling Widgeon grass (Ruppia 
Maritima) with EPA (Environmental Protection Agency), DPR (Department of Pesticide 
Regulation) and the City of San Mateo’s APAP approved aquatic herbicides diquat, komeen, 
53 of 134

--- page 54 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 5 
 
nautique and fluridone. Waterworks Industries Inc. has also had great success controlling algae 
with Hydrogen Dioxide, Peroxyacetic Acid, Sodium Carbonate Peroxyhydrate, and Copper based 
algaecides. Due to our extensive experience with these products we are confident that we can 
control the aquatic vegetation and algae within the lagoon system. The goal will to minimally use 
copper based formulations to assist in efficacy and problematic infestations. The following table 
lists the herbicides and algaecides that could potentially be used to manage aquatic plants and 
algae in Marina Lagoon. Included in this table are the degradation byproducts of each chemical as 
well as the application method in which we would apply them.  
 
 
Waterworks Industries Inc. would use one of the application vessels on our equipment list outlined (on 
pages 10-11) below based on the size and location of the treatment needed. Waterworks Industries Inc. 
uses a variety of treatment systems depending on the type of treatment needed including state of the art 
GPS guided and rate controlled application systems that can be mounted in our larger boats. Waterworks 
Industries Inc. will fill out the designated forms that are attached to this proposal to keep records of all 
treatments performed on the lagoon which will be used for record keeping and  
 
Regulatory Compliance  
 
 
 
Herbicide  Active 
Ingredient 
Degradation Byproducts 
Application Technique 
Fluridone 
n-methyl formamide  (NMF) 
3-trifluoromthyl benzoic acid 
Boom, Spreader 
Diquat Dibromide 
Diquat binds with organic matter in the 
sediment indefinitely. It does not degrade and 
will accumulate in sediments  
Boom, handgun 
Copper Formulations  
Copper is an element and is not broken down 
like other herbicides into byproducts 
Boom, handgun, spreader 
Algaecide  Active 
Ingredient 
Degradation Byproducts 
Application Technique 
Sodium Carbonate Peroxyhydrate 
Breaks down to sodium carbonate and hydrogen 
peroxide in water. Hydrogen Peroxide breaks 
down into water and oxygen.  
Spreader 
Hydrogen Dioxide 
Water and Oxygen  
Boom, handgun 
Peroxyacetic Acid  
Water, oxygen and carbon dioxide 
Boom, handgun 
Copper Formulations  
Copper is an element and is not broken down 
like other herbicides into byproducts 
Boom, handgun, spreader 
Adjuvants and surfactants could be used 
based on recommendations and the label. 
Adjuvants and surfactants containing 
nonylphenol will not be used. 
  
  
54 of 134

--- page 55 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 6 
 
Kickoff and Planning Meeting 
 
Prior to the aquatic weed control season, we will continue to assist the City with public notification 
requirements.  Per the permit, at least 15 days prior to the first use of aquatic herbicides in a calendar 
year, the Discharger must notify potentially affected public agencies with a statement of the intent to 
apply algaecides and/or aquatic herbicides. We will assist the City in identifying potentially affected 
public agencies and provide guidance on which herbicides to identify in the notice, the purpose of their 
use, the time period and locations of expected use, and water use restrictions and/or precautions for the 
use of those materials.  
 
We will meet with representatives from the City to discuss the applications planned for the permit year 
and what changes, if any, are made to how algae and/or aquatic vegetation will be managed. Our staff’s 
extensive experience with aquatic vegetation and algae management and the regulations governing the 
techniques used for plant management allows us to plan annual monitoring activities that are 
representative of typical herbicide use regimens and maintain permit compliance. We are familiar with 
the obstacles that Bay Area Agencies are confronted with in planning their aquatic vegetation 
management activities, including public pressure to reduce herbicide use, conforming to regulations 
implemented as a result of injunctions (e.g., California red-legged frog and Goby 11), and the difficulty of 
managing vegetation in designated sensitive habitat areas. Each year, we will conduct annual planning 
and review changes in the products applied or methods of application so that we can incorporate this 
information into our plan for annual monitoring activities. 
 
Sample Collection and Analysis 
 
Based on the City’s APAP and NOI and historic application data, we will collect and submit for analysis 
appropriate surface water samples collected before, during and after the application according to permit 
requirements.  During or shortly after sample collection, we will perform necessary field chemistry 
analysis (pH, electrical conductivity (EC), dissolved oxygen (DO) and turbidity) and submit properly 
preserved and labeled samples under chain of custody procedures to a qualified analytical laboratory for 
chemical analysis.   
 
We possess a variety of in situ water quality monitoring instruments 
that are regularly serviced, maintained, calibrated, and verified 
against calibration standards to measure all of the permit-required 
parameters accurately and precisely. We maintain a log of all 
calibration results and archive those records for a minimum of three 
years.  Our staff is trained in the use and maintenance of these 
instruments and are able to identify measurement error and 
troubleshoot equipment in the field. When in the field, we carry 
spare parts and replacements as a redundancy to reduce the 
possibility of missing a field measurement.   
 
55 of 134

--- page 56 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 7 
 
 
We regularly use a variety of sampling equipment, including long-
arm sampling poles, Van Dorn collectors, and peristaltic pumps that 
allow us to collect samples from sites with difficult access. Our staff 
are trained in clean sampling techniques and proper sampling 
handling to minimize the chance of inadvertent contamination. 
 
We will review and quality assure the data and prepare a brief 
summary of results for inclusion in the annual report to the SWRCB 
and the Regional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB). 
 
Applications of sodium carbonate peroxyhydrate only require sampling for the field parameters.  
 
Further note that if event and post event samples from six (6) consecutive treatments in one (1) year or 
spread over multiple years report the concentration of an aquatic herbicide below its receiving water 
limitation, subsequent sampling is reduced to once per year per environmental setting for that herbicide.  
 
The concentration of copper needed to effectively control aquatic plants and algae typically exceeds 
applicable RWLs and State Implementation Plan water quality criteria. Typically, agencies that use copper-
containing algaecides or aquatic herbicides apply for a SIP exception to allow for temporary or seasonal 
exceedances of dissolved copper RWLs.  
 
We recommend that the City consider obtaining a SIP Exception if it anticipates the continued use of copper 
in the Marina Lagoon. For 2020, we propose to monitor up to six application events of copper to determine 
if the City is able to meet the dissolved copper RWL. 
 
For purposes of cost estimation, we assume that the City will make copper, diquat, fluridone, and sodium 
carbonate peroxyhydrate applications. These applications will occur in only one (1) environmental setting 
(i.e., the City’s Marina Lagoon). We assume that we will make applications and will sample at the following 
intervals:  
2020 – Sample up to six (6) applications of copper, one (1) application of diquat, one (1) application 
of fluridone, and one (1) application of sodium carbonate peroxyhydrate. 
2021 – Sample one (1) applications of copper, one (1) application of diquat, one (1) application of 
fluridone, and one (1) application of sodium carbonate peroxyhydrate. 
2022 – Sample one (1) applications of copper, one (1) application of diquat, one (1) application of 
fluridone, and one (1) application of sodium carbonate peroxyhydrate. 
 
Note that the sampling intervals for 2021 and 2022 are based on the assumption that the six copper 
applications monitored in 2020 result in samples that have dissolved copper concentrations below the 
applicable RWL.  
 
Field and Analytical Laboratory Data Compilation, Review, and Reporting (if necessary)  
We will collect and manage data originating from herbicide applicators, sampling personnel, and analytical 
laboratory reports. We have developed a custom Microsoft Access database which we enter all aquatic 
herbicide application monitoring data into. This allows for direct entry in the field using a laptop or tablet, 
or transcription from hard copy forms. The database allows us to minimize transcription errors and increase 
efficiency. By storing data in a relational database, we are able to easily query data to see the status of 
ongoing herbicide treatments, view historical trends, and export customized data tables for print, further 
analysis or use in the annual report.  
 
56 of 134

--- page 57 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 8 
 
We implement quality assurance protocols in real time as data is collected in the field, received in 
laboratory reports, and is entered into the database. Upon receipt of laboratory data, the lab report is 
reviewed and quality assurance elements are recorded into a separate QA/QC document that is saved and 
stored with the lab report on our server, which is backed up nightly. Additionally, prior to exporting 
tables for annual report preparation, we complete a 11-step QA/QC process that reviews all aspects of 
aquatic herbicide application monitoring, including herbicide use data, field observations and water 
quality measurements, and analytical laboratory results.  
 
As described in the City’s APAP, several time-specific reporting requirements exist in the event of non-
compliance with the permit.  We will perform a timely review of applicable data and documentation and 
inform you of a potential or actual non-compliance circumstances, if any. If a potential or actual non-
compliance circumstance arises, we will contact you as soon as possible to discuss options and reporting. 
As needed, we will prepare and complete Twenty-Four Hour Report and/or Five Day Written Reports.  
 
Herbicide Application Information Collection, Review, and Annual Report Preparation 
Based on the activity from the above tasks, we will compile analytical laboratory, field observation, and 
herbicide application data and prepare the required tables and text for the City’s draft annual report.   
After the City’s review of the draft report and our incorporation of edits, we will submit a final annual 
report to the SWRCB and RWQCB on your behalf.   
 
Permit Negotiation 
The current iteration of the permit became active on 
December 1, 2013 and was set to expire on November 
30, 2018 but was administratively continued. 
Consequently, the 2013 permit is still active and 
enforceable. SWRCB staff indicated they are considering 
beginning the process of drafting a new permit in early- 
to mid-2020. Blankinship & Associates staff periodically 
meet with SWRCB and RWQCB representatives to 
demonstrate the diverse techniques used to apply 
herbicides in aquatic environments as well as the 
methods used to implement water quality monitoring of 
those herbicide treatments as required by the permit. We 
view these demonstrations as an invaluable opportunity 
to impart critical knowledge to Water Board staff who 
are assigned to oversee permit compliance, some of whom are unfamiliar with novel approaches that have 
been developed to implement efficacious and environmentally protective aquatic weed control programs. 
We also use these meetings as an opportunity to provide input and feedback to regulators that helps form 
the basis of permit revisions.  
 
For example, we hosted one of these demonstrations in July of 2018 during an application to Grayson 
Creek, part of Contra Costa County’s flood control system, which was attended by both Regional Water 
Quality Control Board (RWQCB) Region 2 and Region 5 representatives as well as County Public Works 
and Agriculture Department staff (see picture above). We have met with State Board representatives as 
recently as October 15, 2019 to demonstrate application and sampling techniques and discuss the future of 
the Aquatic Weed NPDES Permit. 
 
In the next year, we anticipate working closely with SWRCB staff on new permit requirements.  
57 of 134

--- page 58 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 9 
 
We will negotiate with the SWRCB on behalf of the City and other permittees in an attempt to achieve a 
fair and scientifically-based new permit.  Our work will be based on our extensive collection of data, past 
experience, and familiarity with the existing permit. As past chair of the Association of California Water 
Agency’s (ACWA) NPDES Aquatic Weed Permit ad hoc committee, Michael Blankinship will advocate 
for a cost-effective approach to new permit compliance, as we did in 2010 through 2012 during the 
drafting of the current permit. 
  
NOI and APAP Preparation for Submittal for Coverage under the Permit (Anticipated in 
2020 or 2021) 
If necessary, to obtain coverage under the new permit, we will review the City’s existing information 
relative to the Permit requirements and draft a Notice of Intent (NOI) and Aquatic Pesticide Application 
Plan (APAP).  After City staff has reviewed the documents, we will submit the NOI and APAP to the 
SWRCB.   
This task does not include the addition of copper to the NOI or APAP if sampling demonstrates RWLs 
cannot be met.  
 
SIP Exception (Not Included in Cost Estimate)  
The Permit allows for the application of aquatic herbicides and requires compliance with the following:  
 
The Policy for Implementation of Toxics Standards for Inland Surface Waters, Enclosed Bays, 
and Estuaries in California (aka the State Implementation Policy, or “SIP”) 
 
The California Toxics Rule (CTR) 
 
Applicable Regional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB) Basin Plan Water Quality 
Objectives (WQOs) or Site Specific Objectives (SSOs) 
 
The concentration of copper needed to effectively control aquatic plants and algae typically exceeds SIP 
water quality criteria. During spring and summer months, the City may need to treat portions of the 
Marina Lagoon and/or discharge treated water into the San Francisco Bay (receiving waters) and, as a 
result, exceed SIP or SSO water quality criteria for dissolved copper. It is our recommendation that 
copper-based products not be applied unless a SIP Exception is obtained to avoid non-
compliance or violations of the permit. 
 
Although the SIP prohibits discharge of copper in excess of applicable water quality criteria into 
receiving waters, Section 5.3 of the SIP allows for short-term or seasonal exceptions from meeting water 
quality criteria if determined to be necessary to implement control measures either for resource or pest 
management. 
 
Permittees who elect to use a SIP exception to maintain compliance with the Permit must satisfactorily 
complete several steps, including preparation and submission of a California Environmental Quality Act 
(CEQA) document which, when completed and submitted to the SWRCB, will be referenced in a revised 
Permit. Once listed in the revised Permit, the City may discharge copper to receiving waters in excess of 
water quality criteria on a short term or seasonal basis.  
 
If the City is interested in obtaining coverage for discharges of dissolved copper in excess of the RWL 
and SSOs, we can review the steps that will be required and formulate a cost estimate for this work. 
Generally, an agency pre-consultation is conducted prior to preparation of a California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) Initial Study. The resulting document produced to support the City’s use of copper 
in the Marina Lagoon may be a negative declaration (ND) if there are no significant impacts, or a 
Mitigated Negative Declaration (MND) if potentially significant impacts can be avoided or mitigated.  
58 of 134

--- page 59 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 10 
 
Project Equipment List  
One Harvester will be dedicated to Marina Lagoon at all times for the duration of the nuisance growth 
season. This unit shall be on shore and ready to launch at all times for the duration of the plant growth 
season. 
Two of the boats listed below have treatment systems that are GPS guided and have CPU software 
designed to document locations, the time spent treating the specific areas and amounts of pesticides 
applied.   
Waterworks Industries Inc.’s maximum response time for mobilization of harvesting, rotovation, 
transport, spray and shoreline support equipment is 48 hours.  
If any equipment listed below goes out of service Waterworks Industries Inc. will replace it within twenty 
four (24) hours to ensure continual service, particularly during the high plant growth period.  
All equipment listed below has proper identification and licensing required by law and is clean drain and 
dried to ensure no invasive species are being introduced into the lagoon.  
 
Quantity Equipment 
Description  
Image 
1 
Multi-Purpose Aquatic 
Vessel (MPAV) 
 
Environmentally safe and nontoxic hydraulic fluid . 
 
Aquatic weed and algae removal 
 
Debris removal  
 
Rotovation  
 
3 
H10-650 Aquatic Harvester 
 
Ten foot (10’) wide and six foot (6’) deep cutting 
head  
 
Six Hundred Fifty (650) cubic foot capacity  
 
Environmentally safe and nontoxic hydraulic fluid  
 
Harvesters are equipped with Tier 4i diesel engines to 
comply with current EPA and California emissions 
requirements. 
 
Aquatic weed and algae removal  
1 
T45S-1300 High Speed 
Transport Barge 
 
High Speed Transport of harvested vegetation to the 
shoreline for offloading  
 
Thirteen Hundred (1300) cubic foot capacity  
 
Environmentally safe and nontoxic hydraulic fluid  
 
Equipped with Tier 4 diesel engine s to comply with 
current EPA and California emissions requirements. 
 
Aquatic weed and algae removal 
 
59 of 134

--- page 60 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 11 
 
1 
H8-230 – Aquatic Harvester  
 
Eight foot (8’) wide and six foot (6’) deep cutting 
head  
 
Two Hundred Thirty (230) cubic foot capacity  
 
Environmentally safe and nontoxic hydraulic fluid  
 
Harvester is equipped with Tier 4 diesel engines to 
comply with current EPA and California emissions 
requirements. 
 
Aquatic weed and algae removal 
 
1 
H6-200 - Aquatic Harvester 
 
Six foot (6’) wide and six foot (6’) deep cutting head  
 
Two Hundred (200) cubic foot capacity  
 
Environmentally safe and nontoxic hydraulic fluid  
 
Harvester is equipped with Tier 4 diesel engines to 
comply with current EPA and California emissions 
requirements. 
 
Aquatic weed and algae removal 
1 
32 foot Aluminum Cookie 
Cutter 
 
Environmentally safe and nontoxic hydraulic fluid. 
 
Emergent vegetation cutting  
1 
Amphibious MPAV 
 
Environmentally safe and nontoxic hydraulic fluid  
 
Equipped with Tier 4i diesel engine to comply with 
current EPA and California emissions requirements. 
 
Aquatic weed and algae removal 
1 
22’ Landing Craft boat 
 
GPS and CPU guided Chemical Application  
 
Water Quality Monitoring  
 
Trash and debris removal  
1 
22’Alumitech Air Gator Air 
Boat  
 
GPS and CPU guided Chemical Application  
 
Water Quality Monitoring  
 
Trash and debris removal 
1 
21’ Gregor R206 boat 
 
Chemical Application  
 
Water Quality Monitoring  
 
Trash and debris removal 
 
60 of 134

--- page 61 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 12 
 
3 
12’ Aluminum skiff  
 
Chemical Application  
 
Water Quality Monitoring  
Trash and debris removal 
 
2 
Zodiac inflatable boat  
 
Chemical Application  
 
Water Quality Monitoring  
 
Trash and debris removal 
 
Beach maintenance  
 
Waterworks Industries Inc. will provide weekly cleaning and maintenance of the sand beaches of 
Lakeshore and Aquatic Parks. Waterworks Industries Inc. understands that the goal of this cleaning will 
be to reduce the presence of coliform bacteria by preventing the accumulation of debris, algae, or other 
flotsam that can harbor these pathogens. 
 
Cleanup events 
 
Waterworks Industries Inc. understands and has all of the equipment, staff, and experience to mobilize 
and take care of any and all post-storm or non-routine cleanup events as requested to remove debris and 
litter. This will include inspecting and removing litter and debris collected at the trash boom downstream 
from Laurel Creek. 
 
 
Communication and Coordination 
 
Communication is a very essential part of any successful program. Waterworks Industries Inc. 
staff will be in regular contact with City of San Mateo staff to ensure that the City is always 
aware and up to date on work being performed on the lagoon. Waterworks Industries Inc. will 
also be available and in contact with other City service providers and the public in connection 
with the lagoon and any work being performed that has the potential involve or impact them. 
Listed below are the phone numbers and the personnel to call if there is an issue that needs 
immediate action.  
 
1. Tyler Fowler  
Office #  
707-837-7900 
Fax #  
707-837-7997 
Cell #      
925-490-4901  
Email  
Tyler@waterworksindustries.com 
2. Richard Carnation 
Office #  
707-837-7900 
Fax #  
707-837-7997 
Cell #      
707-495-6000 
Email  
Rich@waterworksindustries.com 
 
 
61 of 134

--- page 62 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 13 
 
3. Arie Bornstein  
Office #  
707-837-7900 
Fax #  
707-837-7997 
Cell #      
707-595-0359 
Email  
Arie@Waterworksindustries.com 
 
Waterworks Industries Inc. will be on call 24 hours a day, and will have at least one person 
available at all times. 
 
If requested Waterworks Industries Inc. will make public appearances to City, Home Owners 
Association, and residents group meetings to inform and answer questions regarding the Lagoon 
and its management.  Additionally, Waterworks personnel can better answer some questions 
that Staff gets from the public.  Phone calls from residents are welcome, provided City of San 
Mateo Staff referred them to us. 
 
Complaint Resolution Protocol 
 
If there is dissatisfaction from the Marina Lagoon residents or the staff at the City of San Mateo 
with regards to Waterworks Industries Inc. performance of the Lagoon Management Services, the 
City staff should first place a call to Tyler Fowler followed up with an email to both Tyler Fowler 
and Rich Carnation. Waterworks Industries will respond back immediately to City of San Mateo 
staff by phone, as well as with an email confirmation of this dissatisfaction.  It will include any 
resolution programs to be implemented. 
 
Reporting and Record Keeping  
 
The following documentation and reports will be prepared and submitted to the City:  
 
1. April 2 – Provide a copy of pest control recommendations. 
2. Daily – Complete daily work reports for inspections, physical activities and chemical treatments, 
that clearly describes areas where work was conducted, types and amounts of aquatic pesticide(s) 
used at each application event, types and extent of physical activities conducted and amount and 
types of debris removed, and water quality observations. 
3. Weekly – Each Monday during plant nuisance season, communicate through email: general 
observations on nuisance growth, and the tentative action plan for the remainder of the week. 
4. Monthly, by the 10th – Provide copies of daily work reports for the previous month, and provide 
a summary of the number of treatments, and types and quantities of pesticides applied using the 
DPR monthly summary pesticide use report. The GPS tracks and associated data along with the 
harvested masses of aquatic vegetation will also be provided at this time. September 30 – In not 
more than 2 pages, provide a description of the season’s work, including a discussion of what 
worked and what did not, and suggest recommendations for the next season. 
5. Prepare the annual report for the Regional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB) describing 
the pesticide monitoring program and its findings. 
6. Assist in providing information required for Annual Reports to CDFW, RWQCB, and the Army 
Corp of Engineers regarding work performed in the scope of services. 
 
 
 
62 of 134

--- page 63 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 14 
 
Project Schedule  
 
 
 
Conflict of Interest 
There is no conflicts of interest.  
 
Terms and Conditions  
This proposal is predicated upon all the terms and conditions of the RFP. This proposal and the 
costs outlined within it are valid for a period of one hundred twenty (120) days from the date of 
receipt thereof by the City.  
 
 
Additional Documentation  
 
63 of 134

--- page 64 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 15 
 
 
 
All individual QAL and QAC licenses listed for our management team can be verified at  
https://www.cdpr.ca.gov/docs/license/currlic.htm 
 
 
 
 
 
64 of 134

--- page 65 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
65 of 134

--- page 66 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 17 
 
 
66 of 134

--- page 67 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 18 
 
 
 
67 of 134

--- page 68 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 19 
 
 
 
68 of 134

--- page 69 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
69 of 134

--- page 70 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
70 of 134

--- page 71 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
71 of 134

--- page 72 ---
EXHIBIT A 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
 
72 of 134

--- page 73 ---
930 Shiloh Rd, Bldg. 38, Suite D, Windsor, CA 95492    (707) 837-7900    (707) 837-7997 Fax 
www.Waterworksindustries.com   Contractors State License # 678182 A, B, C-27, C-36, C-53, D- 21 
Page | 1 
Exhibit B 
Estimated Labor Hours 
Project Task 
Unit 
Total Units 
Cost 
Total Estimate 
Weekly Lagoon Inspections April-September  
Day 
27 
525.00 
$14,175.00 
Consulting  
Hours 
10 
125.00 
$1,250.00 
Rotovation / MPAV  
Day 
0 
2,750.00 
$0.00 
Combined Herbicide/Algaecide Applications 
Acres 
63 
630.00 
$39,690.00 
Herbicide Applications  
Acres 
37 
615.00 
$22,755.00 
Algaecide Applications 
Acres 
47 
595.00 
$27,965.00 
NPDES Water Quality Monitoring & Lab 
Analysis 
Day 
6 
1,800.00 
$10,800.00 
Mechanical Harvesting / with disposal  
Day 
20 
1,525.00 
$30,500.00 
NPDES Data Tabulation & Annual Report 
Report 
1 
3,000.00 
$3,500.00 
NPDES Prep of APAP & NOI for new Permit 
(anticipated 2021 for cost estimate purposes) 
APAP & 
NOI 
0 
5,000.00 
$0.00 
Routine Maintenance Agreement Training  
Hours 
10 
185.00 
$1,850.00 
Debris Recycling and Disposal  
Cubic Yard 
130 
45.00 
$5,850.00 
Storm Event Cleanup  
Event 
3 
3,250.00 
$9,750.00 
Special Request Clean Up  
Event 
2 
2,500.00 
$5,000.00 
CDFW Agreement Support 
Days 
2 
1,575.00 
$3,150.00 
Total 
$176,235.00 
Proposed Budget and Fee Schedule 
Three year not to exceed budget 
2020 
2021 
2022 
$176,235.00 
$179,503.13 
$183,990.70 
- Payment Rates
73 of 134

--- page 74 ---
EXHIBIT B 
 
PAYMENT RATES 
 
 
Cost adjustments for the second and subsequent years’ annual price and rates will be made using 
annual indexes of the "Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers," Bay Area City Average, all 
items as published in the Monthly Labor Review by the U.S. Department of Labor, (CPI), or 
3%, whichever is less. Contractor will be responsible for calculating adjustment factors subject to 
City approval and must be submitted to City no less than 60 days from the end of the current 
agreement year. The City will notify contractor of its intent to renew no less than 45 days prior to the 
agreement expiration date. 
 
74 of 134

--- page 75 ---
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if CONSULTANT 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease.  
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall 
be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
75 of 134

--- page 76 ---
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.  
 
76 of 134

--- page 77 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2470
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
February 03, 2020 
SUBJECT:
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Fee Collection Disclosure
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to amend the 2019-20 City of San Mateo Comprehensive Fee Schedule to reflect fees for plan check 
and inspection services performed by the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo collects fees on behalf of San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department for services such as fire plan 
checks and inspections, which are reflected in the annually published Comprehensive Fee Schedule.
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department recently updated its fees and may continue to make periodic updates to its fees 
throughout the fiscal year.  Thus, the fees specified in the City’s fee schedule are outdated. Staff recommends amending 
the City’s fee schedule to incorporate by reference the current fees adopted by San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department 
to ensure the City is collecting the appropriate, accurate fee amounts and to notify customers the fees are established by 
San Mateo Consolidated Fire. 
A proposed resolution amending the Comprehensive Fee Schedule is included as Attachment 1.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact to the City of San Mateo.  Fees are collected by the City are passed directly to San Mateo 
Consolidated Fire Department.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This update to the 2019-20 Fee Schedule is not a project subject to CEQA because it is a government fiscal activity which 
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on 
the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Fire Fee footnote update
STAFF CONTACT
Lisa Wesley, Treasury and Debt Manager
77 of 134

--- page 78 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
wesley@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7110
78 of 134

--- page 79 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ___ (2020)
AMENDMENT TO THE 2019/2020 COMPREHENSIVE FEE SCHEDULE
WHEREAS, the City reviews its Comprehensive Fee Schedule on an annual basis; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with Government Code section 66016, the Council held a public hearing to 
consider and adopt fee increases on March 4, 2019; and
WHEREAS, within the 2019/2020 Comprehensive Fee Schedule, the City of San Mateo collects fees for 
the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department; and
WHEREAS, the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule will appropriately indicate those fees collected for 
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE SAN MATEO CITY COUNCIL HEREBY FINDS AND RESOLVES that;
1.
The footnote and fees included in the Comprehensive Fee Schedule collected for San Mateo 
Consolidated Fire Department are approved.
2.
The footnote and any changes the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department will be effective 
immediately upon City Council approval.
79 of 134

--- page 80 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
III.
A.
1.
Commercial and Multi-Residential
0 -10,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
$267.00
10,001-35,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
$400.00
35,001-75,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
$534.00
75,001-120,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
$668.00
Over 120,000 Square Feet
Per Hour
$267.00
2.
Single Family and Duplex Plan Review
0-10,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
$133.00
B.
Fee
0.34% of Valuation
C.
Hourly Rate
Please refer to Building, Fire and 
Planning Hourly Rate
D.
Fee / Actual Cost
 Initial plan 100% of Building Plan 
Check Fee, Fire Support and Planning 
Support Fee; then Actual Cost for all 
City Departments for additional 
identical and mirror image plan 
checks where uniform codes have not 
changed. 
E.
a. Park and Recreation Tax on Residential Building 
Permits
 Per $100 Valuation on 
Building Permit App. 
$0.30
a. Consultants for specialized plan checking and 
inspection services or to expedite plan checking and 
inspection services
Fee is per Consultant's rate
b. Reimburse cost of staff or consultant time spent 
in plan check or inspection services.  Park Plan 
Check and Inspection Services on Building Permits. 
Fee to be collected at time of Building Permit 
application. After payment of fees, Permittee may 
apply for an exemption for projects having no Park 
Plan Check or Inspection Requirements.
Building Valuation on Those 
Building Permits Whose 
Valuation is Over $5,000
0.07%
F.
Construction Valuation of  
All Projects
0.40% of valuation
G.
Fee
 13 mills/$1,000 valuation
Residential (Minimum $0.50)
28 mills/$1,000 valuation
Non-Residential. (Minimum $0.50) 
H.
Fee
 $1/$25,000 valuation 
I.
Percentage
0.10% of valuation
J.
All Required Permits
 Minimum of 100% of all permit fees 
2. Development Project Review Fee
GENERAL PLAN MAINTENANCE FEE
STATE TAX
Strong motion instrumentation and seismic hazard 
mapping.
(Fee set by State of California.)
BUILDING STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION 
SPECIAL REVOLVING FUND
TECHNOLOGY FEE
CONSTRUCTION WITHOUT A PERMIT
Penalty incurred when any construction is performed 
without a permit.
FIRE PLAN CHECK*
PLANNING SUPPORT FEE (PLAN 
CHECK/INSPECTION)
(Fee covers initial review and 2 resubmittals)  The fee 
will be charged for all projects which require a planning 
application, for new single-family homes and duplexes, 
and for any other permit application that requires review 
by the Planning  Division.
ADDITIONAL PLAN REVIEW FEES FOR 
PROJECTS REVIEWED 4TH REVIEW AND 
BEYOND
PLAN CHECK FEES FOR IDENTICAL AND 
MIRROR IMAGE PLANS
PARKS AND RECREATION FEES
1. Park and Landscape Resources
ADDITIONAL REQUIRED PLAN REVIEW & 
BUILDING PERMIT FEES
*These fees are collected on behalf of the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department. The current fee charged may be higher than those 
listed. Please see the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department's fee schedule for current fees that will be collected by the City of San 
Mateo on behalf of San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department at: smcfire.org/i-want-to
Page 2.1
80 of 134

--- page 81 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
BUSINESS LICENSE LISTING
Each Qtr.
$32.00
II. RETURNED CHECK PROCESSING CHARGE (Non-sufficient fund checks and other issues)
Each
$25.00
III. STATE MANDATED DISABILITY ACCESS FEE (SB 1186)
On each Business Tax application and renewal
Each
$4.00
IV. NEW BUSINESS - FIRE INSPECTION*
Each
$200.00 
V. COLLECTION REFERRAL CHARGE
Each
$25.00
FINANCE DEPARTMENT
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
*This fee is collected on behalf of the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department. The current fee charged may be higher than what is listed. 
Please see the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department's fee schedule for current fees that will be collected by the City of San Mateo on 
behalf of San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department at: smcfire.org/i-want-to
Page 5.1
81 of 134

--- page 82 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 19-2270
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
February 3, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Below Market Rate Program – Revisions
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to provide modifications to the City's Below Market Rate (BMR) Inclusionary program and adopt an 
updated BMR fractional fee. 
BACKGROUND:
One of the City Council priorities is to evaluate increases in the affordability requirements to the City’s Below Market Rate 
(BMR) Inclusionary Program. This is also an area of interest identified by participants at the Home for All Community 
Conversations held during the spring of 2019.  The City’s existing BMR program was enacted in 1992 in accordance with 
provisions of Measures H and P and revised in 2010 based on recommendations of the Technical Advisory Committee 
(TAC) on the Housing and Land Use Study from 2008.  
A study session was held on July 15, 2019.  The City Council provided staff with direction to: 

Consider 15% inclusionary as a minimum requirement

Consider a different inclusionary requirement for townhomes

Consider a range of income targeting 

Determine what incentives could be used to help offset the increased requirement for developers

Exempt existing Planning Applications, including Preliminary Applications that have already been submitted, from 
the new provisions unless the project changes
A couple of Council members also indicated an interest to study including Extremely Low-Income units in the requirement.  
Council also requested that a roundtable discussion with developers and other interested parties be held to review options 
and development assumptions.  A technical roundtable was held on October 9, 2019, with total of eleven participants.
City’s Current BMR Program Requirements
The current program requires that for residential projects with 11 or more units, the developer set aside 10 or 15 percent 
of the total number of units for inclusion in the City’s affordable housing program.  The developer has inclusionary options 
based on tenure and income level:
Rental: 10% Very Low-Income or 15% Low-Income
Ownership:  10% Low-Income or 15% Moderate-Income
In addition, developers pay an in-lieu fee for fractional units from 0.1 to 0.4, but the required number of BMR’s is rounded 
up for fractional units over 0.5.  Small projects consisting of 5-10 units also pay a fractional in lieu fee as adopted by the 
City Council. 
82 of 134

--- page 83 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Each year, the City Council adopts a resolution using area median income to set maximum rental and sales prices for the 
affordable units produced by the BMR program. Currently the maximum rents for Very Low- and Low-Income units are 
based on 50% and 60% of the Area Median Income (AMI), respectively.  For Low- and Moderate-Income condominium and 
townhouse units, the maximum sales prices are calculated based on 70% and 100% AMI, respectively.  For Moderate-
Income single family detached units, the maximum sales price is based on 110% AMI.
Considerations for BMR Program Modifications
The City contracted with Economic & Planning Systems (EPS) to evaluate options to revise the current BMR program. The 
analysis was intended to answer the following:
-
How do San Mateo BMR requirements compare to neighboring jurisdictions?
-
Are the existing requirements creating major feasibility issues?
-
Can the existing requirements be increased or better balanced?
-
Can different standards be created for different housing types?
-
How can the program be modified if density is increased in the future?
Neighboring Jurisdictions
Since 2017, many cities revisited or adopted new inclusionary requirements.  Locally, Redwood City, Daly City, South San 
Francisco, and Mountain View have adopted new requirements. Neighboring cities have affordability requirements 
ranging from 10-20% of the units in a project, targeting a broad range of income groups.  San Mateo has similar 
requirements, and in many cases lower requirements, than other local jurisdictions. The variances are attributed to slight 
differences in housing markets, and underlying development assumptions (height, density, intensity, and parking 
requirements) in how affordable housing pricing is calculated, as well as policy goals.  For example, Redwood City assumed 
225 dwelling units per acre (DU/acre) when they evaluated the economic feasibility in their ordinance, while the San 
Mateo model assumes 50-68 DU/acre.  Also, several cities include Moderate-Income rentals that result in rents very close 
to market. (See Table 5 of Attachment 2).
Feasibility and Sensitivity of BMR Standards
EPS evaluated both the current San Mateo BMR standards as well as potential revisions. The initial study presented to the 
Council in July has been updated, primarily based on developer feedback on cost assumptions from the roundtable 
discussion. EPS developed four “prototype pro formas” to look at construction types that are typical in San Mateo, 
including the following building types and their base densities:
-
5 story apartments over podium parking (50 DU/acre), 
-
5 story apartments with wrap parking (50 DU/acre), 
-
5 story condominiums (50 DU/acre), and
-
Townhomes (22 DU/acre)  
Current market conditions present challenges to many housing developments in and around San Mateo.  Despite very high 
rents and sale prices, construction and land costs have been rising swiftly and reducing projected investment returns.  Any 
requirement to provide BMR units, even under the City’s current standards, could restrict the housing development’s 
value in both the near- and long-term and may inhibit some potential housing developments.  However, as noted above, 
the City’s BMR standards are comparable to or even below those in nearby jurisdictions and have historically been 
manageable for developers in and around San Mateo.
According to the study by EPS, the current 10% and 15% options do not result in equivalent outcomes for developers.  For 
both rental and ownership projects, the yield on the 15% option is lower than the 10% option, and therefore not as 
attractive to developers.  To date, no developer in San Mateo has selected the 15% option.
This is due to the State density bonus law provisions that overlap with the City requirements and affect the project 
economics. For example, a project that provides 10% Very Low-Income rentals can get a 32.5% density bonus, but a 15% 
Low-Income project is only eligible for a 27.5% increase in density. The increase in the value of the additional market rate 
units offsets the greater costs to provide Very Low-Income units rather than the Low-Income units.  The City has seen a 
83 of 134

--- page 84 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
significant increase in developers utilizing density bonus in the past few years. Recently, the developers of the former 
Trags and AAA sites have voluntarily provided 11% Very Low-Income rentals to obtain a 35% density bonus.
Rental Construction
Attachment 2 includes the economic analysis provided by EPS.  Tables 6-11 include the income and development cost 
assumptions for the various prototypes.  Tables A-1 and A-2 summarize a number of scenarios tested at various income 
levels and two construction types for rental projects. Given the current high development costs and the City’s existing 
general plan and zoning requirements, the 10% Very Low-Income inclusionary option is the most economically feasible for 
developers, as it yields the highest average unit value when combining the market-rate and BMR units.  However, there 
are several options presented for achieving a 15% minimum BMR requirement by revising the income mix.  Assuming 
developers will opt for a density bonus, several of the scenarios include an 11% Very Low or even Extremely Low Income 
component to maximize this incentive.  Others prioritize achieving a mix of income levels rather than maximizing the 
density bonus. 
For- Sale Construction
Tables A-3 and A-4 summarize scenarios for multifamily ownership condominiums at various income levels. Again, the 
combination of high development costs and density bonus provisions result in the City’s current 10% option as the most 
viable.  The next most viable option is the current 15% Moderate-Income option among those tested by EPS. 
In the July 2019 draft economic analysis, townhome development appeared to generate the highest financial returns of all 
the prototypes, which initiated a conversation about separate requirements for townhome projects. After further refining 
of development assumptions with additional feedback from developers, it is not clear that townhomes can support a 
greater BMR standard than other types of housing development in San Mateo.
20% BMR Standard
In addition to the various prototypes analyzed, the economic analysis studied potentially increasing the inclusionary 
requirement to 20%. This level of BMR requirement would have a significant impact on overall project values and 
associated feasibility unless the City significantly increases the income target groups to Moderate Income or above and 
reduces requirements for Very Low-Income or Low-Income households within the current density provisions of Measure 
P.  Though not presented in EPS’s study, it is possible that a future increased density allowance may support a more 
aggressive BMR requirement either in the number of units or their income levels. 
Income Targeting - Rental
At the study session, Council members supported a mix of incomes as a way to offset costs of lower income rental units 
and provide a variety of units in the program.   There are numerous ways to price affordable units within the traditional 
income categories.  For example, affordable Low-Income rental units can be calculated by using 60, 70 or 80% of the area 
median income. City of San Mateo’s current methodology and State Density Bonus law utilize 60%. For example, a Low- 
Income rent for a 2-bedroom unit could be set at $1,647 to $2,262 depending what percent of AMI is used. See Table 2 of 
Attachment 2 that lists the assumed rents and sales prices used in the economic analysis. 
Over the last two years, the median income for San Mateo County has risen significantly (16% in 2019), which in turn 
increases the potential rents that can be charged.  Several of the neighboring jurisdictions incorporated Moderate-Income 
rentals into their requirements prior to this significant income increase.   Note that rents for Moderate- Income units are 
equivalent or higher than local, older market rate apartments and have been difficult to rent in the past. Therefore, staff 
does not recommend including options for rental units above median (100%). This then makes it very difficult to provide 
Extremely Low-Income (ELI) units, which need the combination of moderate units to help offset the costs of the deeper 
affordability. ELI units may not be a good fit for the inclusionary program and may be better served in deeply subsidized 
housing projects, where there are more funding resource options available.
Since no developer has ever selected the 15% Low-Income option for rentals, the households in this income group on the 
City BMR waitlist have not been served in recent years. There is limited outside funding to assist this group in other 
housing projects, so the BMR program is a good fit for this income group. 
84 of 134

--- page 85 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Both staff and the developer community are neutral as to whether it should be required to assist more than one income 
group per project.
Income Targeting - Ownership
Pricing for Moderate-Income ownership units also varies greatly among local jurisdictions, ranging from 100-120% AMI as 
a base.  San Mateo utilizes 100% and State density bonus law uses 110%. In the EPS model shown in Table 2, the difference 
in sales prices for a 2-bedroom condominium based on 100% and 110 % AMI is $449,000 and $597,000, respectively.  This 
demonstrates how small revisions in the income used to calculate sales prices result in large price differences.
Applicants for ownership units need to have funds to cover a down payment and closing costs, which has proven 
challenging for lower-income households.  Also increases in HOA dues over time has been a problem for lower-income 
owners.  Therefore, staff does not recommend including Very Low-Income units as an option for ownership units.  
However, since density bonus law allows Very Low-Income ownership units, the City could require that the developer set 
up a reserve that Very Low-Income owners could access in the event future HOA due increases or assessments result in 
making units unaffordable. This is a provision that Mountain View adopted to address the challenges of Very Low-Income 
home buyers. Staff recommends ownership units be priced no less than 70% and no greater than 110% AMI.
Since no developer has selected the 15% Moderate-Income option for ownership units, this income group, who can most 
afford the out of pocket costs to purchase, has been underserved. Other than the City’s own funding sources, this group is 
not served by other housing subsidies.
Developer Incentives
Based on feedback from the BMR roundtable and City’s past experience, the State density bonus is the greatest economic 
benefit to a residential project. Attendees also requested flexibility wherever possible. It was noted that additional 
affordability could be considered the public benefit component in the areas currently zoned to allow increased height and 
density with public benefit without any zoning changes. Developers also requested lead time to adjust to new 
requirements (see Attachment 3).
Incentives for future consideration as part of the new General Plan if the provisions of Measure P are revised include: 
offsite construction or land dedication (especially in partnership with nonprofit developers), allowing in lieu fees, and 
additional density bonus over State law.
Staff Recommendation
Rental Units
Based on the current market economics and demand as demonstrated on the City waitlists, staff recommends that the 
current 10% option be eliminated from the program and that the program be revised to keep 15% Low-Income as the 
requirement for rental projects.  Developers may meet the 15% requirement with any income combination that works 
for them as long as they stay at or below Low-Income. 
This recommendation will provide flexibility for developers, as well as more units in the income categories that have not 
been recently served.  It will also provide a mix of incomes depending on the particulars of each project.  Based on current 
density bonus law, it is likely that a rental developer will provide 11% Very Low-Income units, so the remaining 4% would 
be Low-Income.  This would allow a 35% increase in density. Another option a developer could utilize is 15% Low-Income 
units priced at 60% to get a 27.5% increase in density.  The staff recommendation also provides flexibility in the event that 
State density bonus law changes.
Options: Other options the Council could consider is to set a specific income mix for rental properties such as 11% Very 
Low-Income and 4% Low-Income to maximize density bonus, and/or to keep the Low-Income units priced at 60% instead 
of 70% AMI.
Ownership Units
85 of 134

--- page 86 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Similarly, staff recommends eliminating the 10% Low- Income option for ownership units and retain the 15% Moderate- 
Income option priced at 100% AMI as the requirement for ownership projects. Developers may meet the 15% 
requirement with a combination of incomes as long as they stay at or below Moderate-Income.  The 15% Moderate-
Income option allows a 10% density bonus for a project.  Within this requirement a developer could also opt for 10% Low 
and 5% Moderate, which would provide a 20% density bonus.  This could work for condominiums but may not be feasible 
for townhomes, which typically do not use density bonus. Staff also recommends retaining the current separate price level 
for single-family detached homes priced at 110% AMI.  Staff does not recommend allowing Very Low-Income ownership 
units, which are allowed by density bonus, unless a developer sets up a reserve for future HOA due increases.
Other options the Council could consider is to set a specific income mix for ownership properties such as 10% Low and 5% 
Moderate to maximize density bonus, but as noted above, this could be economically difficult for a low-density townhouse 
or single-family project.  Another option is to adjust the base pricing to 110% and 120% AMI for Moderate-Income units.
The attached Resolution (Attachment 1) incorporates the staff recommendations.
Staff also recommends that the BMR changes be effective immediately upon passage of the resolution, but any 
residential development that has submitted a  Planning Preliminary Application or Planning Application would be 
exempt from the revisions unless the project changes significantly.  Significant changes are defined as an increase of 20% 
or more in the number of residential units or square footage.
In-Lieu Fee Update
Staff also recommends that the in-lieu fee for fractional units be updated based on the current economic analysis 
completed by EPS.  The in-lieu fee is based on the actual cost to provide an affordable inclusionary unit, which is $519,244 
($51,924 per 0.1 fraction) for a Low-Income rental unit and $449,559 ($44,956 per 0.1 fraction) for Moderate-Income 
ownership unit. 
Since this fee is charged to small projects (5-10 units) that do not have economies of scale to absorb this cost, and 
fractional onsite BMR requirements, staff recommends that the fee be set at half the calculated cost. For a rental project 
this would be $25,962 per 0.1 fraction, and $22,478 per 0.1 fraction for an ownership project. The current fee is $15,120 
per 0.1 fraction. This fee will be adjusted each year as part of the Citywide fee updates using the Engineering News Record 
as the cost index.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Historically, revenues collected from the fractional fee have averaged about $36,000 per year since 2013. The revised 
fractional fee table is:
Rental
Owner
In Lieu Fee for Fractional Units:
0.1 Units Required
$      25,962
$      22,478
0.2 Units Required
$      51,924
$      44,956
0.3 Units Required
$      77,887
$      67,434
0.4 Units Required
$     103,849
$      89,912
In Lieu Fee for Projects Less than 11 units:
5 units
$     129,811
$     112,390
6 units
$     155,773
$     134,868
7 units
$     181,735
$     157,346
8 units
$     207,698
$     179,824
9 units
$     233,660
$     202,302
10 units
$     259,622
$     224,780
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
86 of 134

--- page 87 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines section 15061(b)(3), the adoption of the revised BMR Program is not a project subject 
to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the activity in question may have a 
significant effect upon the environment.  Any future projects complying with the BMR program will receive environmental 
review prior to the project being considered. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - EPS Report dated 01/15/2020
Att 3 - BMR Roundtable Meeting Notes 10/09/2019
STAFF CONTACT
Sandra Council, Housing Manager
scouncil@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7223
87 of 134

--- page 88 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. __ (2020)
REVISING THE CITY OF SAN MATEO’S BELOW MARKET RATE HOUSING PROGRAM
WHEREAS, the Below Market Rate Housing Program (BMR Program) was established in 1992, amended 
in 2008, 2010, and 2019, and requires that residential projects consisting of 11 units or more provide a certain 
percentage of affordable units; and
WHEREAS, the current affordability requirements allow developer options in rental projects to provide 
10% of the units affordable to Very Low-Income households or 15% affordable to Low-Income households, and 
for ownership projects provide 10% of the units to Low-Income households or 15% affordable to Moderate-
Income households; and
 
WHEREAS, the existing BMR Program provides some flexibility in program requirements and density 
bonus and other developer incentives in accordance with State density bonus law; and
WHEREAS, City wants to increase the affordability requirements in order to produce more affordable 
housing; and 
WHEREAS, City conducted an economic analysis to evaluate the impacts of increased affordability 
requirements on the feasibility of residential development; and
WHEREAS, City desires to update the in-lieu fee that is charged for residential projects with 5-10 units, 
and fractional BMR units that range from 0.1 to 0.4.; and
WHEREAS, staff recommends that the Council discontinue the 10% Very Low-Income rental and 10% 
Low-Income ownership options but allow developer flexibility in providing various income levels mixes as long as 
they don’t exceed 15% Low-Income for rental projects and 15% Moderate-Income for ownership projects; and
WHEREAS, staff recommends other minor clarifications to the BMR Program to ensure consistency in 
affordability definitions and duration of affordability requirements.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines section 15061(b)(3), 
adoption of this resolution amending the City’s BMR Program is not a project subject to CEQA 
because it can be seen with certainty that this action will not have a significant effect on the 
environment.  
2.
The affordability requirements will be revised to require that at least 15% of rental units be 
affordable to Low-Income households, and at least 15% of ownership units be affordable to 
Moderate-Income households.
3.
Developer may provide units at lower affordable levels or a mix of incomes as long as the minimum 
affordability levels are met, especially in conjunction with density bonus law, however City will not 
accept Very Low-Income ownership units unless a reserve is established that can be utilized by 
those owners to fully pay for future expenses related to increased home ownership association 
dues or assessments.
88 of 134

--- page 89 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 2 of 11
Below Market Rate Housing Program Revisions
4.
The new in-lieu fee for fractional units shall be $25,962 per 0.1 fraction for rentals and $22,478 per 
0.1 fraction for ownership units.  Each year these fees will be updated using the Engineering News 
Record as the cost index. 
5.
The revised “City of San Mateo- Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program attached hereto as 
Exhibit A is approved.
6.
The revised BMR Program will become effective immediately upon adoption of this Resolution, 
however any development that has submitted a Planning Application or a Planning Pre-application 
will be exempt from these requirements unless the project changes significantly in the future, 
which is defined as an increase in number of units or square footage of 20% or more.
89 of 134

--- page 90 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 3 of 11
Below Market Rate Housing Program Revisions
EXHIBIT A
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BELOW MARKET RATE (INCLUSIONARY) PROGRAM
I.
INTENT
It is the intent of this resolution to establish requirements for the designation of housing units for 
moderate, lower, and very low income households in development projects containing residential 
dwelling units.
II.
DEFINITIONS
Whenever the following terms are used in this resolution, they shall have the following meanings:
(a)
“Affordable Housing” means affordable ownership housing or affordable rental housing.  
Affordable ownership housing is housing affordable to households whose incomes do not 
exceed one hundred twenty percent (120%) of the area median income (low or moderate 
income households).
Affordable rental housing is housing affordable to households whose incomes do not exceed 
eighty percent (80%) of the area median income (very low or lower-income households).
(b)
“Applicant” means any person, firm, partnership, association, or any other entity who submits 
the planning application and/or building permit for the construction of new dwelling units.
(c)
“Area Median Income” means the median household income for San Mateo County as 
published annually by the California Department of Housing and Community Development
(d)
“Below Market Rate (BMR) Unit” means an affordable housing unit.
(e)
“Density Bonus” means entitlement to build additional residential units above the maximum 
number of units permitted pursuant to the existing General Plan, applicable specific plan 
and/or zoning designation.
(f)
 “Lower Income” means households whose income does not exceed that as defined in Health 
and Safety Code section 50079 for the County of San Mateo as published annually by the 
California Department of Housing and Community Development, as adjusted for household 
size.
(g)
“Market Rate Unit” means a dwelling unit where the rental rate or sales price is not restricted 
by this resolution.
90 of 134

--- page 91 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 4 of 11
Below Market Rate Housing Program Revisions
(h)
“Moderate Income” means households means households whose income does not exceed that 
as defined in Health and Safety Code section 50093 for the County of San Mateo as published 
annually by the California Department of Housing and Community Development.
(i)
“Occupancy Standards” means the minimum household size upon which qualification and 
pricing for BMR units is based.
(j)
“Ownership Units” means housing units offered for sale including, but not limited to, single 
family homes, condominiums, other common interest developments and mutual housing 
associations.
(k)
“Rental Units” means housing units offered for lease or rent.
(l)
“Very-low Income” means households whose income does not exceed that as defined in Health 
and Safety Code section 50105 for the County of San Mateo as published annually by the 
California Department of Housing and Community Development
III.
BELOW MARKET RATE HOUSING REQUIREMENTS – GENERAL
(a)
Applicability.  The requirements of this program shall apply to all development projects that 
include five (5) or more residential units or parcels which involve:
1.
New construction of rental or ownership housing units, including mixed use developments 
and addition of units to existing projects, or
2.
Subdivision of property for single family or duplex housing development, or
3.
Conversion of rental apartments to condominium or other common interest ownership 
under Chapter 26.65 of the Municipal Code.
4.
Conversion of nonresidential use to residential units.
(b)
Number of BMR Units Required.  For residential development projects of eleven (11) or more 
units, the number of BMR units must be constructed as follows:
 
1.
Ownership Units
a.  Fifteen percent (15%) of the proposed units shall be set aside for occupancy by and 
shall be affordable to Moderate Income households.
2.
Rental Units
a. Fifteen percent (15%) of the proposed units shall be set aside for occupancy by and 
shall be affordable to Lower Income households. 
In determining the number of BMR units required, any decimal fraction .5 or above shall be 
rounded up to the nearest whole number.
Fees in-lieu of constructing required BMR units shall not be allowed except for the provisions 
for fractional units defined below.
91 of 134

--- page 92 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 5 of 11
Below Market Rate Housing Program Revisions
(c)
Fractional Unit Fees.  In the following situations a fractional fee will be collected instead of 
construction of a BMR unit:
1.
For residential development projects consisting of 5-10 units or parcels, or 
2.
When the calculation of the BMR units in development projects of 11 or more units or 
parcels results in a fractional unit less than .5. 
In either scenario, applicant has the option to provide an additional BMR unit instead of the 
fee.
The fractional fee will be established based on the typical cost to develop a BMR unit and will 
be adopted by resolution by the City Council on an annual basis.  The fee will be collected at the 
time the building permit is issued and shall be deposited into the City Housing fund.
(d)
Occupancy Standards.  Priority for occupancy shall be for households meeting the following 
size requirements.
1 bedroom units
-
no restriction
2 bedroom units
-
Minimum two person occupancy
3 bedroom units
-
Minimum three person occupancy
Other households for such units will be on a lower priority.
IV.
OWNERSHIP UNIT AFFORDABLE HOUSING STANDARDS
(a)
Price of Units.  The maximum sales price of BMR units shall be limited to a price that is 
affordable to a household earning between 100-110% of area median income, adjusted for 
household size, with payments not to exceed between 30-35 percent of the gross monthly 
income, less insurance and property taxes and homeowners” association dues.  The City Council 
at least once per year shall adopt by resolution maximum allowable sales prices, adjusted by 
unit size, within the ranges established above and based on prevailing interest rates and prior 
experience in maintaining an adequate sized list of qualifying buyers.  The sales prices for BMR 
units shall be established at the time of building permit issuance for each project.
For units which provide congregate care or personal assistance for residents, the costs of care 
shall be separate from housing costs, and shall not be included in the pricing formula.
(b)
Sales Restrictions.  BMR units shall be sold or resold only to eligible moderate or lower-income 
households.  The City, or its designees, shall determine the eligibility of such households.  A 
deed restriction, covenant, and/or other instrument enforceable by the City, limiting the resale 
of such units to eligible households shall be recorded in the chain of title of all BMR units.  The 
duration of such resale restrictions shall be 45 years, and shall be reapplied and recorded upon 
each resale of the unit.
92 of 134

--- page 93 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 6 of 11
Below Market Rate Housing Program Revisions
The deed restriction shall provide that the City have the first right of refusal to purchase the 
unit.  The City’s option to purchase may be assigned to a qualifying moderate or lower income 
household.
The City or its designee shall be responsible for selection and qualification of buyers in accord 
with its marketing polices regulating affordable housing.  The seller shall pay costs associated 
with buyer selection, qualification and unit sales.
(c)
Unit Appreciation.  Each unit offered for resale will be subject to resale restrictions in which the 
effective sales price (sales price less City subsidy) will be computed to equal the average 
increase in moderate income for the San Francisco MSA during the period of ownership.
(d)
Occupancy Restrictions.  Units shall only be occupied by their owners.  Renting, leasing, 
subleasing or subletting shall not be permitted for more than two months in any year.  Violation 
of these occupancy restrictions will be grounds for termination of the occupancy.
V.
RENTAL UNIT AFFORDABLE HOUSING STANDARDS
(a)
Rental Rates.   The monthly rent to be charged for a BMR unit in a rental project shall not 
exceed 30% percent of the gross monthly income for households earning between 50-70 
percent or less of area median income, adjusted for household size.  The City Council shall at 
least once per year adopt by resolution maximum allowable rental rates, adjusted by unit size, 
within the ranges established above and based on prior experience in maintaining a list of 
qualifying renters. In no event shall the annual rent increase exceed 4% from the prior year.  
The surplus median income increase in a capped year can be carried over and combined in the 
following years, as long as the 4% cap per year is maintained.
 
For units which provide congregate care or personal assistance for residents, the cost of care 
shall be separate from housing costs and shall not be included in the rental formula.
(b)
Move-in Costs.   Total costs and security deposits to occupy a unit shall be limited to first and 
last month’s rent, plus a cleaning deposit not to exceed one month’s rent.
(c)
Rental Restriction.   Occupancy of BMR rental units and qualification of eligible lower-income 
tenants shall be the responsibility of the project owner or an authorized agent of the owner.  
Annual leases shall be offered to tenants of BMR units.  Income qualifications of the tenants 
shall be verified upon annual lease renewal.  If a tenant’s income rises above the 90% area 
median income for a Lower Income Unit or above 60% area median income for a Very Low 
Income Unit, the unit shall become a market rate unit and the next comparable unit available 
will become a BMR unit, unless the tenant chooses to vacate the unit.
Each project owner shall submit an annual report to the City identifying for each BMR unit the 
93 of 134

--- page 94 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 7 of 11
Below Market Rate Housing Program Revisions
monthly rent, vacancy information for the prior year, income and income verification for 
tenants, and other information as required by the City.
The rental restrictions shall be in force for the life of the building.
(d)
Change in Tenure from Existing BMR Rental Units to Ownership.  In the event the owner of 
any development that contains BMR Rental Units chooses to offer those units for sale after the 
initial occupancy of the BMR units as rentals, a new BMR agreement shall be executed and 
recorded.  The agreement shall describe the number, location and sales prices of the BMR units 
offered for sale.  The BMR Ownership units shall be affordable to moderate income households 
in accordance with the BMR program provisions in place, unless the project utilized the State 
Density Bonus, in which case the sales prices shall be affordable to the household income levels 
identified in the original BMR agreement at the sales prices for those household income levels 
adopted by City Council resolution on an annual basis. 
If the change in tenure is part of a condominium conversion, all provisions of Chapter 26.65 of 
the Municipal Code shall be followed.
If the change in tenure is not associated with a condominium conversion, the BMR Rental Unit 
tenants must be adequately noticed and offered relocation assistance as follows:
1.
Each of the BMR tenants shall receive written notification by registered mail from the 
property owner of the intention to sell at least one hundred and eighty (180) days prior to 
termination of tenancy. This notification shall include the information regarding 
relocation, right to purchase, and lease benefits available.
2.
Each of the BMR tenants shall be given notice by the property owner of an exclusive right 
to contract for the purchase of his or her respective unit upon terms and conditions of the 
BMR program as it pertains to Ownership Units. This right shall run for a period of not less 
than ninety (90) days from the date of the initial notification of termination of tenancy.
3.
Relocation assistance shall be given to all BMR tenants who do not exercise their right to 
purchase as follows:
a. A relocation allowance equal to three month's rent at the tenant's rate in effect at 
the time the notice of termination of tenancy is filed shall be paid to the eligible 
tenant within twenty (20) days after the tenant notifies the owner of his intention to 
vacate the unit or the owner notifies the tenant to vacate the unit.
b. The applicant shall provide a list of active comparable rental units in San Mateo 
County at least once each month beginning from the initial notification of 
termination of tenancy.
c.
In projects that consist of twenty-five (25) or more BMR Rental Units, the applicant 
shall provide a relocation specialist to assist displaced tenants in finding new 
housing.
94 of 134

--- page 95 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 8 of 11
Below Market Rate Housing Program Revisions
VI.
SUBDIVISIONS
A subdivider of land for single family or duplex development resulting in eleven (11) or more parcels 
shall provide BMR units equivalent to at least fifteen percent (15%) of the density permitted on the 
subdivided lots.
VII.
UNIT SIZE, TYPE AND DESIGN
BMR units shall:
(a)
Have exterior design and appearance compatible with and substantially the same as market 
rate units within the project, including landscaping;
(b)
Be distributed throughout the development project as approved by the City;
(c)
Have similar access to the unit from the exterior as market rate units;
(d)
Contain proportionately the same number of bedrooms as market rate units, 
(e)
Generally be of comparable size to similar market rate units, or
They may be up to 10% smaller than market units if they meet the following minimum sizes:
Unit Type
Regular Units
Senior Units
studio units
450 square feet
405 square feet
one bedroom units
600 square feet
507 square feet
two bedroom units
900 square feet
602 square feet
three bedroom units     1100 square feet
950 square feet
(f)
Have access to all on-site amenities; and
(g)
In phased development projects, be constructed proportionately in each phase.
(h)
Interior unit amenities such as floor covering, appliance and other fixtures, shall be specified in 
the BMR agreement executed prior to issuance of building permit and may differ from market 
rate units, but must at a minimum be UL or AGA listed.
VIII
ALTERNATIVES
95 of 134

--- page 96 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 9 of 11
Below Market Rate Housing Program Revisions
An applicant may propose an alternate means of compliance with the BMR program subject to the 
following provisions:
(a)
Variation of the bedroom count of BMR Units.  Based on Council adoption of community 
priorities, an applicant may propose a different bedroom mix in BMR units than a straight pro 
rata of the Market Rate Units as long as the total bedroom count is the same or more, and the 
total number of BMR units equal 10% or more of the project.  For example, the City may accept 
fewer BMR units in exchange for those with more bedrooms, or conversely it may agree to 
more BMR units that have smaller bedroom counts.  The Council will adopt its community 
priorities by resolution annually at the same time it adopts the BMR rental and sales prices.
(b)
Size of BMR units.  In projects where the Market Rate Units all exceed 2000 square feet, the 
BMR units may be up to 20% smaller than the Market Rate Units.
(c)
Off Site Construction.  Off-site construction shall be allowed only if the applicant demonstrates, 
and the City finds during the planning approval process, that on-site construction is infeasible.  
In order to substantiate infeasibility, the applicant must provide an economic analysis 
comparing the construction of units onsite and offsite. If allowed, off-site units shall be 
constructed within the City of San Mateo and shall be constructed and occupied prior to 
occupancy of the development project.
(d)
Agreement with City for Financing.  If the City or Redevelopment Agency enters into a 
financing agreement with the applicant, the parties may agree to alter the requirements of 
Section VII, subsections (a) through (g), above.
(e)
Significant Number of Affordable Units.  If an applicant exceeds the maximum percentage of 
affordable units set forth in the state density bonus law for low or very low income rental or 
ownership units or moderate income ownership units, the City will consider an applicant’s 
request to alter the requirements of Section VII, subsections (a) through (g), above, in 
connection with its review of the planning application for the project and may reject or accept 
the request in its sole discretion.
(f)
Specialized Services.  If a project will include units for residents requiring specialized services 
(such as health care for senior residents), the City will consider an applicant’s request to alter 
the requirements of Section VII, subsections (a) through (g), above, in connection with its 
review of the planning application for the project and may reject or accept the request in its 
sole discretion. 
IX  ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
Only households qualifying as very low, lower or moderate income households shall be eligible to 
occupy BMR units.  Preference shall be given to persons residing or working within San Mateo.  
Eligibility shall be determined in conjunction with policies adopted by City Council resolution.
96 of 134

--- page 97 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 10 of 11
Below Market Rate Housing Program Revisions
X.  ADMINISTRATION
(a)
Responsibilities.  The City or its designee shall be responsible for administering ownership BMR 
units.  The project owner shall be responsible for administering BMR rental units.
The City’s Community Development Director or a designee shall be responsible for 
administration of the BMR program, including, but not limited to, determinations regarding 
calculation of the number of BMR units required, pricing, design, review of feasibility analyses, 
qualification of tenants, and long-term program compliance.  The City may prepare 
administrative guidelines to further clarify program requirements.
(b)
Application Process.  At the time of filing a planning application for a development project 
subject to the BMR program, the applicant shall include the proposed number of BMR units, 
including their size and number of bedrooms.
(c)
BMR Agreement.  Prior to the issuance of a building permit the applicant shall enter into a BMR 
Agreement with the City which will be recorded against the property and shall include the 
following:
1.
The number of BMR units and their location;
2.
The unit sizes and the number of bedrooms per dwelling unit;
3.
The affordability level and initial rent or sales price;
4.
The interior unit amenities which would differ from market-rate units, including, but not 
limited to, floor coverings, countertops, appliances, plumbing and electrical fixtures; and
5.
The schedule for production of BMR units in phased developments.
XI.
DENSITY BONUSES FOR RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS 
(a)
Bonus for Affordable Units.   Provision of the BMR units entitle an applicant to request a 
density bonus in accordance with Government Code section 65915.
(b)
Additional Incentives.  In addition to any density bonus, applicant may request additional 
incentive(s) or concession(s) in accordance with Government Code section 65915 and San 
Mateo’s Density Bonus Ordinance at Section 27.16.060 of the Municipal Code. 
The additional incentive(s) or concession(s) to be provided shall be determined by the City at the 
time of the application approval in accordance with Government Code section 65915 and the City’s 
Density Bonus Ordinance.  The City will require information from the applicant to determine the 
necessary incentive or concession, or may hire a consultant to prepare an analysis at the expense 
of the applicant.
97 of 134

--- page 98 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 11 of 11
Below Market Rate Housing Program Revisions
The following describes the density bonus amount and number of incentives that are allowed 
by providing the required affordable units in the BMR program.  
Applicant may provide any combination of additional affordable units and/or deeper 
affordability (which may be eligible for a higher density bonus and/or more incentives or 
concessions based on the provisions of State Density Bonus law and the City’s Density Bonus 
Ordinance) as long as the City’s minimum affordability requirements are met. However, the City 
will not accept Very Low units in an ownership project unless a reserve is established that can 
be utilized by lower income owners to fully pay for future expenses related to increases in 
homeowners’ association dues or other assessments, such that the overall housing cost of 
homeownership is maintained at an affordable level. 
(c)
BMR Program Applicable.  The affordable units provided under the provisions of the Density 
Bonus Ordinance shall comply with all requirements of the BMR program.
Rev. February 3, 2020
Tenure
Percent 
Affordable
Income Target
Density Bonus 
Allowed
Developer 
Incentives
Ownership
15%
Moderate
10%
1
Rental
15%
Lower
27.5%
1
98 of 134

--- page 99 ---
D R A F T M E M O R A N D U M 
To: 
Sandra Council, City of San Mateo 
From: 
Darin Smith 
Subject: Below Market Rate Housing Program Update; EPS #181100 
Date: 
January 15, 2020 
Economic & Planning Systems, Inc. (EPS) was retained by the City of San 
Mateo (City) to update its inclusionary housing requirements and inlieu fee for 
ownership and rental residential projects. The City currently requires new 
housing developments to provide a certain percentage of units at Below 
Market Rate (BMR) prices. For rental projects, the developer may provide 
either 10 percent of units at Very Low Income (up to 50 percent of Area 
Median Income [AMI]) or 15 percent of units at Low Income (up to 60 percent 
of AMI). For ownership projects, the targeted price points are higher, as 
developers may choose to provide 10 percent of units at Low Income (up to 
70 percent of AMI) or 15 percent of units at Moderate Income (up to 100 
percent of AMI). Developers are not allowed to pay a fee in-lieu of providing 
the required units, except for small projects under 10 units or fractional units 
(e.g., if a 54-unit project should provide 5.4 BMR units). 
Responding to City Council’s expressed interest in the potential to change the 
current inclusionary requirements, this memorandum evaluates the feasibility 
of the potential changes to the City’s affordable housing programs to inform 
the optimal levels of inclusionary requirements that may be supported with 
minimal adverse impact on new development. The following analysis examines 
and compares inclusionary requirements and in-lieu fee levels in other 
jurisdictions and evaluates the effect that different requirements and fee 
levels could have on new development activity in San Mateo.  The effects of 
the State-mandated density bonus incentive on the financial feasibility of 
projects are also incorporated into this analysis.   
This memorandum is designed to help the City’s decision-makers understand 
the impact of potential changes to the City’s fee programs to support 
appropriate policy formation.  In addition to presenting preliminary findings to 
City Council in mid-2019, City staff and EPS conducted outreach to locally 
active developers to solicit feedback regarding technical assumptions, as well 
as their experience and challenges in complying with inclusionary 
requirements in San Mateo and other nearby jurisdictions.  That developer 
feedback has been considered and reflected in this material. 
Key Findings  
1.
The City’s current BMR requirements are generally consistent 
with or even below the requirements in nearby cities.  San Mateo 
99 of 134

--- page 100 ---
Draft Memorandum 
January 15, 2020 
San Mateo BMR Program Feasibility Analysis; EPS #181100  
Page 2 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\181000s\181100_SanMateoHousing\Report\181100_Memo_011520.docx 
 
currently requires rental developers to provide 10 percent BMR units at Very Low Income or 
15 percent BMR units at Low Income, and for-sale developers can provide 10 percent Low 
Income or 15 percent Moderate Income units.  As of mid-2019, most Peninsula jurisdictions 
surveyed required at least 15 percent BMR units, and several as high as 20 percent.  Many 
jurisdictions require a mix of incomes within their BMR requirements, including units at the 
lowest income levels required in San Mateo.  Thus, raising the City’s BMR requirement to a 
minimum of 15 percent with a mix of incomes would be consistent with typical policies in 
nearby communities.   
2.
Current market conditions indicate challenges to the feasibility of new housing 
construction, and there are limits to how much the City’s BMR requirements can be 
increased. Both rental and for-sale housing are commanding very high price points in and 
around San Mateo. However, high land costs and rapid escalation of construction costs and 
continuing strong demand for both labor and materials present potential challenges for new 
construction. The City should aim to ensure that any increase to the inclusionary 
requirements can still allow housing developers to realize competitive financial returns on 
their investment, particularly for projects that are already in the process of securing financing 
and may not be able to make adjustments to key inputs such as land acquisition costs to 
reflect an updated inclusionary requirement.    
3.
The State Density Bonus law materially affects project economics in such a way 
that incents building lower income units. Whether the project is rental or for-sale, it 
appears there is significant value in meeting the affordability requirements that qualify 
projects for maximum density bonuses. In the rental scenarios tested based on the City’s 
current BMR options, it appears that a project that includes 10 percent of very low-income 
units (at 50 percent of AMI) and thus achieves a 32.5 percent density bonus can yield a 
higher return than a project that includes 15 percent low-income units (at 60 percent of AMI) 
and achieves just a 20.0 percent density bonus, even though low-income units require less 
subsidy per unit. The project economics in these cases show that the value of adding more 
market rate units outweighs the costs of lower-income units, and is consistent with City staff 
findings that most recent projects have opted to provide BMR units at lower incomes to 
optimize the density bonus.  
4.
The City’s current options to fulfill the inclusionary requirement do not appear to 
result in equivalent outcomes for developers. EPS estimates that the 10 percent 
inclusionary option for rental projects (at 50 percent of AMI) yields a significantly higher 
financial return than the 15 percent option (at 60 percent of AMI), once density bonus 
incentives and values are factored.  For-sale projects show similar results, with the option to 
provide 10 percent of units at 70 percent of AMI yielding greater value to developers than 
providing 15 percent of units at 100 percent of AMI.  Anecdotal information from City staff 
supports this conclusion, as most recent projects have opted to provide lower-income units 
to optimize the density bonus.   
 
5.
The City staff recommendation to eliminate the 10 percent BMR options and require 
projects to provide a minimum of 15 percent BMR units would be consistent with 
other jurisdictions, but would result in modest reductions in project values 
compared to the City’s current options.  Staff is recommending that the BMR 
100 of 134

--- page 101 ---
Draft Memorandum 
January 15, 2020 
San Mateo BMR Program Feasibility Analysis; EPS #181100  
Page 3 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\181000s\181100_SanMateoHousing\Report\181100_Memo_011520.docx 
 
requirement be amended to require developers to provide 15 percent BMR units at 70 
percent of AMI for rental project and 15 percent at 100 percent of AMI for for-sale projects.  
These requirements for would represent a modest reduction in average values per unit 
relative to the City’s current BMR requirements, through which developers have consistently 
opted to provide fewer units at lower income levels  The recommended approach can also be 
expected to yield a greater diversity of BMR unit pricing than has been observed thus far, 
which would advance the Council’s goal of providing affordable housing to a greater range of 
households.   
6.
If the City wished to provide an option under which 20 percent of units would be 
offered at BMR prices, the income levels served by such units would need to be 
much higher than the City’s current inclusionary standards. While some communities 
do require up to 20 percent BMR units in new projects, EPS’s financial analysis suggests that 
the 20 percent BMR units would need to include substantial numbers of Moderate or even 
Above Moderate income units to yield project values similar to the City’s current 
requirements or staff’s recommended requirements.   
7.
The City’s current in-lieu fees do not reflect contemporary development costs, and 
could be increased. In discussions with City staff, it appears there is a desire to maintain 
the policy direction of prioritizing on-site construction over collecting in-lieu fees. The City 
currently allows fulfillment of the requirement through in-lieu fees for only small-scale 
projects (10 or fewer units) and for fractional units. The current fees work out to 
approximately $15,000 per 0.1 fractional units required.  To match the estimated current 
costs and implicit subsidies of building BMR units on-site, the in-lieu fees could be increased 
substantially, upwards of $51,000 per 0.1 fractional units for rental projects and $44,000 per 
0.1 fractional unit for ownership projects.  
Background1 
The City of San Mateo is part of the fast-growing Bay Area region. Since 2000, the number of 
households in the Bay Area has grown at an average annual rate of 0.6 percent; much of the 
growth occurred in and around San Francisco and the Silicon Valley. San Mateo has also 
experienced significant growth, albeit less rapidly than the region overall. As of 2018, there were 
approximately 39,200 households in the City of San Mateo; this is an increase of 1,915 
households since 2000, or an annual average of 0.3 percent (Table 1).  
 
Table 1 
Total Households, 2000-2018 
2000
2018
2000-2018
1 The data in this Background section was collected in early 2019 and represented the most recently 
available figures at that time.   
101 of 134

--- page 102 ---
Draft Memorandum 
January 15, 2020 
San Mateo BMR Program Feasibility Analysis; EPS #181100  
Page 4 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\181000s\181100_SanMateoHousing\Report\181100_Memo_011520.docx 
 
Total
Ann. #
Ann. %
San Mateo City
37,321
39,236
1,915
106
0.3%
San Mateo County
253,893
265,011
11,118
618
0.2%
Bay Area [1]
2,459,753 2,733,824
274,071
15,226
0.6%
[1] Bay Area comprises the nine-county region including Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, 
Napa, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Solano, Sonoma, and San Francisco.
Source: California Department of Finance; Economic & Planning Systems
 
There are more owners than renters in San Mateo, but a smaller share compared to the County 
and region. As shown in Table 2, there was a decline in the homeownership rate from 2010 to 
2016. The trend is more prevalent throughout the Bay Area and the County, but is also evident 
in the City. One likely explanation is that the cost to own a home has increased to a point where 
renting is the more appealing or even the only option if people want to stay in the Bay Area.  
Table 2 
Housing Tenure in San Mateo 
Tenure
San Mateo 
City
San Mateo 
County
Bay
Area
2010
55% 
45%
61%
39% 
2016
58% 
42%
Owner-occupied units
Renter-occupied units
Owner-occupied units
Renter-occupied units
54% 
46%
59%
41%
55% 
45%
Source: ACS 2012-2016 Estimate
 
The distribution of housing units by units in structure and type of housing in San Mateo is 
notably different from that of the County. San Mateo has a smaller share of single-family (1-unit) 
units and a greater share of structures with five or more units (nearly 40 percent) (Table 3). 
The prevalence of multifamily units supports the notion that multifamily housing would be 
accepted and demanded in the market.  
Table 3 
Percent of Total Housing Units by Units in Structure/Type  
Units in Structure/Type
San Mateo 
City
San Mateo 
County
1-unit
54%
65%
2 to 4 units
8%
7%
102 of 134

--- page 103 ---
Draft Memorandum 
January 15, 2020 
San Mateo BMR Program Feasibility Analysis; EPS #181100  
Page 5 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\181000s\181100_SanMateoHousing\Report\181100_Memo_011520.docx 
 
5 or more units
38%
27%
Mobile home
0%
1%
Boat, RV, van, etc.
0%
0%
Total
100%
100%
Source: ACS 2012-2016 Estimate
 
As of 2016, San Mateo’s median household income of $95,667 was 3 percent below the County 
median and 12 percent above the Bay Area median. As shown in Table 4, income distribution in 
the city is similar to the County, but skews higher compared to the Bay Area as a whole.  
Table 4 
Household Income Distribution 
Household Income Range
San Mateo 
City
San Mateo 
County
Bay Area
Less than $25,000
10%
11%
15%
$25,000 to $49,999
15%
14%
15%
$50,000 to 74,999
14%
14%
14%
$75,000 to $99,999
13%
12%
12%
$100,000 to $150,000
19%
18%
18%
$150,000 to $200,000
11%
11%
10%
$200,000 or more
18%
20%
16%
Median Household Income
$95,667
$98,546
$85,291
Source: ACS 2012-2016 Estimate
 
Since 2013, rental rates in San Mateo were consistently higher than in the County as well as 
throughout the region. In comparison to the County and the region, the pace of rent growth was 
steepest in the City of San Mateo. As of the third quarter of 2018, the average effective rent for 
apartments in the City was roughly $2,900 per month, as shown in Figure 1. The rental rate in 
the City has been consistently higher than the County average, with the average effective 
monthly rent for apartments in the County at close to $2,700. The pace of rent increase in both 
areas slowed slightly between 2015 and 2017 but has picked up in 2017-2018. These broad 
trends are also true of the average effective rent in the Bay Area region as a whole. 
103 of 134

--- page 104 ---
Draft Memorandum 
January 15, 2020 
San Mateo BMR Program Feasibility Analysis; EPS #181100  
Page 6 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\181000s\181100_SanMateoHousing\Report\181100_Memo_011520.docx 
 
Figure 1 
Average Rent per Multifamily Unit, 2013-2018 Q3 
$2,921
$2,676
$2,268
$0
$1,000
$2,000
$3,000
$4,000
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018 Q3
City of San Mateo
San Mateo County
Bay Area
Source: CoStar, Economic & Planning Systems  
Increasing housing costs reflect the combination of rising demand and relative lack of supply, 
compounded by high costs of construction. Accordingly, lack of housing at all affordability levels 
is expected to remain a major concern in San Mateo.   
As shown in Figure 2, the median home sales price in the City was nearly $1.7 million as of the 
third quarter of 2018, an increase of approximately 82 percent from $912,000 in 2013. The 
median home price in San Mateo County was $1.8 million as of the third quarter 2018, up 
approximately 97 percent from 2013. By contrast, the rate of price growth throughout the Bay 
Area, while still very strong in the past five years, has been less aggressive than in the City and 
County. 
Figure 2 
Median Home Sales Price (All Types), 2013-2018 Q3 
$1,663,000
$1,800,000
$1,010,000
$250,000
$750,000
$1,250,000
$1,750,000
$2,250,000
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018 Q3
City of San Mateo
San Mateo County
Bay Area
Source: San Mateo County Association of Realtors, Economic & Planning Systems 
104 of 134

--- page 105 ---
Draft Memorandum 
January 15, 2020 
San Mateo BMR Program Feasibility Analysis; EPS #181100  
Page 7 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\181000s\181100_SanMateoHousing\Report\181100_Memo_011520.docx 
 
Inclusionary Requirements 
The City of San Mateo currently has two options for both ownership and rental housing 
inclusionary requirements. For ownership housing, a developer may choose to provide 15 
percent of the units to moderate-income households, or 10 percent of the units to low-income 
households. With rental housing developments, 15 percent of the units must be set aside for 
low-income households, or 10 percent of the units may be offered to very low-income 
households. The City of San Mateo is considering adjustment to its inclusionary requirements for 
both rental and ownership and this update is provided to reflect current economic conditions and 
policy goals. 
Developments that fit certain criteria can alternatively pay a fee in-lieu of building BMR units. 
Such fees are then used by the City to subsidize the production of new affordable units for 
moderate- and lower-income households not accommodated by market rate projects. The City of 
San Mateo currently requires all projects to meet their inclusionary requirement by providing 
BMR units on-site; the fee may only be used when the calculation of required BMR units results 
in a fraction of a unit less than 0.5 (for fractions over 0.5, the amount is rounded up to a full unit 
and is thus required to be built on site).  
Survey of Comparable Jurisdictions 
In mid-2019, EPS conducted a survey of inclusionary requirements in comparable jurisdictions in 
San Mateo and Santa Clara Counties. Inclusionary requirements adopted by jurisdictions in these 
counties vary based on local policy preferences, including factors such as the number of units in 
the development or the type of housing (i.e., rental, condo, townhome, or single family). The 
household income level required for new inclusionary units also differs. In looking at the 
inclusionary requirements across all of the surveyed jurisdictions (Table 5), the lowest total BMR 
requirement is 10 percent, and the highest requirements are typically 20 percent.  The median 
inclusionary requirement for both rental and for-sale projects is 15 percent, and often 
jurisdictions require a mix of income levels within that 15 percent requirement (such as Milpitas 
requiring 7.5 percent Very Low and 7.5 percent Low Income), whereas San Mateo currently 
requires only a single income level within its two options for projects.   
Table 5 
Inclusionary Requirement Comparison as of mid-2019  
Jurisdiction
Minimum Inclusionary Requirement
Low 
Very Low Income
Income
Moderate Income
Total 
Inclusionary 
Requirement
City of San Mateo [1] 
Ownership Option 1
-
-
15.0%
15.0%
Ownership Option 2
-
10.0%
-
10.0%
Rental Option 1
-
15.0%
-
15.0%
Rental Option 2
10.0%
-
-
10.0%
San Mateo County
Colma [2]
4.0%
4.0%
12.0%
20.0%
Daly City [3]
Ownership
-
-
20.0%
20.0%
Rental
-
10.0%
-
10.0%
105 of 134

--- page 106 ---
Draft Memorandum 
January 15, 2020 
San Mateo BMR Program Feasibility Analysis; EPS #181100  
Page 8 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\181000s\181100_SanMateoHousing\Report\181100_Memo_011520.docx 
 
Foster City
6.7%
6.7%
6.7%
20.0%
Half Moon Bay [4]
6.0%
7.0%
7.0%
20.0%
Menlo Park [5]
5.0%
5.0%
5.0%
15.0%
Pacifica [6]
6.0%
4.5%
4.5%
15.0%
Redwood City
Ownership
-
-
15.0%
15.0%
Rental
5.0%
5.0%
10.0%
20.0%
San Bruno [7]
-
9.0%
6.0%
15.0%
South San Francisco [8] 
Ownership
-
7.5%
7.5%
15.0%
Rental
5.0%
10.0%
-
15.0%
Santa Clara County
Campbell [9]
Ownership
-
7.5%
7.5%
15.0%
Rental
6.0%
9.0%
-
15.0%
Cupertino [10]
Ownership
-
-
15.0%
15.0%
Rental
7.5%
7.5%
-
15.0%
Los Altos [11]
Ownership
3.0%
3.0%
9.0%
15.0%
Rental
-
20.0%
-
20.0%
Los Altos Hills
-
-
-
-
Los Gatos [12]
-
-
10.0% - 22.5%
10.0% - 22.5%
Milpitas [13]
Ownership
-
-
15.0%
15.0%
Rental
7.5%
7.5%
-
15.0%
Mountain View [14]
Ownership
-
-
15.0%
15.0%
Rental
-
15.0%
-
15.0%
Palo Alto [15]
Ownership Option 1 (<5 acres)
-
10.0%
5.0%
15.0%
Ownership Option 2 (>5 acres)
-
13.3%
6.7%
20.0%
Rental
San Jose [16]
Ownership
Rental
Santa Clara [17]
Ownership
Rental
Sunnyvale [18]
Low Requirement
High Requirement
Median Requirement
-
6.0%
-
-
In process of updating inclusionary requirement
-
15.0%
-
9.0%
-
15.0% -
15.0% -
12.5%
15.0%
15.0%
15.0%
15.0%
12.5%
10.0%
22.5%
15.0%
 *Footnotes on next page.
 
*Footnotes for Table Above:
Note: Of the selected jurisdictions surveyed, Atherton, Belmont, Brisbane, Burlingame, East Palo Alto, Hillsborough, Millbrae, Portola Valley, 
San Carlos, Woodside, Gilroy, Los Altos Hills, Monte Sereno, Morgan Hill, and Saratoga do not have an inclusionary requirement.
[1] San Mateo: Applies to developments with 11 or more units.
[2] Colma: Applies to developments with 5 or more units. No inclusionary requirement for rental units--housing impact fee applies.
[3] Daly City: Developments with fewer than 20 rental units or 15 ownership units pay the in-lieu fee instead.[4] Half Moon Bay: Applies to 
developments with 10 units or more.
[5]
Menlo Park: Applies to developments of 20 or more units. Developments with less than 20 units have a 10% inclusionary requirement or 
pay in-lieu fee. Special zoning areas have up to a 30% inclusionary requirement.
[6]
Pacifica: Applies to developments with 8 or more units.
[7]
San Bruno: Inclusionary requirement is only an option for ownership developments.
[8]
South San Francisco: Applies to developments of 5 or more units.
106 of 134

--- page 107 ---
Draft Memorandum 
January 15, 2020 
San Mateo BMR Program Feasibility Analysis; EPS #181100  
Page 9 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\181000s\181100_SanMateoHousing\Report\181100_Memo_011520.docx 
 
[9]
Campbell: Applies to developments with 10 or more units.
[10] Cupertino: Projects of six ownership units or fewer can either build one below market rate (BMR) unit or pay the Housing Mitigation fee. 
Minimum affordability of ownership BMR units is 50% at median income and 50% at moderate income.
[11] Los Altos: Applies to developments with 10 or more units. For rental developments with 10 or more units, requirement is 20% affordable 
at low-income level OR 15% affordable at very-low income level. For developments with 5-9 units, 15% shall be affordable ar the 
moderate, low, or very-low income level OR pay in-lieu fee.
[12] Los Gatos: Applies to developments with 5 or more units. Developments with 5-19 units have a 10% inclusionary requirement, while 
developments with 20-100 units have a 22.5% inclusionary requirement. Developments with 101 or more units have a 20% requirement.
[13] Milpitas: Applies to developments with 10 or more units.
[14] Mountain View: Ownership inclusionary requirement applies to developments with 3 or more units. Rental requirement applies to 
developments with 5 or more units.
[15] Palo Alto: Applies to developments with 3 or more units that are less than 5 acres. Projects with five or more acres of land must provide 
20% developed as BMR units and different affordability levels apply. Projects that cause the loss of existing rental housing may need to 
provide a 25% BMR component.
[16] San Jose: The off-site inclusionary requirement for ownership developments increases to 20%; the off-site requirement for rental is 12% 
low-income and 8% very low-income.
[17] Santa Clara: Applies to developments with 10 or more units.
[18] Sunnyvale: Only applies to ownership developments. In process of updating inclusionary requirement for rental developments.
Sources: Select City websites, fee schedule documents, and interviews with staff; and Economic & Planning Systems, Inc.
 
Financial Feasibility Analysis 
The following section details the pro forma analyses conducted to assess the financial 
implications for projects that must create BMR units given the policy options being tested and 
also provide a basis for any “in lieu” fee being considered. The options represent a range of 
outcomes, including some that are consistent with current regulations and others that may be 
more aggressive or conservative but generally within the range of policies and practices in 
nearby jurisdictions. In addition, the model estimates “equivalencies” among different potential 
affordability solutions.  
Methodology 
This study uses a project value-based equivalency methodology to determine financial feasibility 
of different inclusionary and in-lieu fee requirements. The analysis starts with four development 
prototypes that reflect rental and ownership product types that are observed to be the prevalent 
development types for the foreseeable future. The costs to construct these types of development 
are compared to their market value and their values as income-restricted BMR housing, to 
understand the basic development feasibility implications. The results are then used in feasibility 
testing and sensitivity analyses regarding the City’s BMR program as it currently exists and as it 
may be amended in the future. To reflect the fact that many projects can receive a 
Statemandated density bonus for complying with the City’s inclusionary requirements, this 
analysis also factors the added costs and value of the bonus market-rate units into the financial 
results. 
Product Types 
Based on the market information provided in the previous section and discussions with City staff, 
EPS has tested financial feasibility on four prototypes, reflecting the range of recent housing 
developments in San Mateo. Developable residential land in San Mateo is expensive, at 
approximately $10 million per acre, based on City-provided land appraisals and feedback from 
developers. Constructing single-family detached or even attached housing would require land 
107 of 134

--- page 108 ---
Draft Memorandum 
January 15, 2020 
San Mateo BMR Program Feasibility Analysis; EPS #181100  
Page 10 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\181000s\181100_SanMateoHousing\Report\181100_Memo_011520.docx 
 
costs of several hundred thousand dollars per unit, in addition to the costs of actually building 
the housing units. Multifamily housing is more typical in this market context because the high 
land costs can be spread over more units per acre, and the overall prices to develop the 
affordable units can be closer to the prices that greater proportions of households can afford.  
The four prototypes included differ by height, construction material, parking type, and tenure. It 
is assumed that projects will have base densities (dwelling units per acre before density bonus) 
averaging 50 units per acre for apartments and condominiums, based on City staff input 
regarding existing zoning and the average of recently built residential projects. The average unit 
in these prototypes is assumed to have 2 bedrooms. California State law (California Health and 
Safety Code Section 50052.5) assumes that a 2-bedroom unit is occupied by a 3-person 
household, and this assumption is used in this analysis.2 For projects built in the Bay Area in 
recent years, a 2-bedroom unit has a gross size of about 1,200 square feet (accounting for 
shared lobbies, hallways, etc.) and a net size of 1,000 square feet. A parking ratio of 1.5 spaces 
per unit is assumed based on projects built in the last four years.  
The townhome prototype has a density of 24 units per acre based on average densities seen in 
recently built townhome products in the San Mateo area. The average townhome is assumed to 
have 2 bedrooms and a gross size of about 1,350 square feet, and includes a 2-car garage.  
Revenue Assumptions 
Market rate units were priced according to per-square-foot averages from units currently on the 
market. For rental units, the average was derived from monthly rents for 2-bedroom units 
divided by average sizes (square feet) of recently built projects (2015 to 2018) in San Mateo. 
The resulting $4.59 per-square-foot average rent per month was used for the apartment 
prototypes, which translates to $4,600 per unit per month average for an apartment project. The 
same method was applied to the ownership units, resulting in a price of approximately $889,000 
for a 2-bedroom condominium and $1.2 million for a 2-bedroom townhome. 
To calculate the values of the affordable units, assumptions must be made regarding the 
applicable income level (above moderate, moderate, low, very low, and extremely low) and the 
percentage of income spent on housing costs. In addition, translating these assumptions into  
 
unit prices and values requires estimates of operating expenses, capital reserves, capitalization 
rates, and for-sale financing factors (such as mortgage interest rates, repayment period, and 
down payments). The following assumptions were used in these calculations: 
 
Income Levels and Prices—The current BMR Housing Program for rental housing defines very 
low-income prices as affordable to households whose incomes are up to 50 percent of the 
AMI in San Mateo County, while low-income apartments are for renters with incomes up to 
60 percent of AMI. For ownership housing, low-income units are affordable to buyers with 
incomes up to 70 percent of AMI, while moderate income buyers can have incomes up to 100 
percent of AMI. For this analysis, EPS has tested these incomes levels and others for 
2 The Census Bureau’s American Community Survey indicates that the average family size in San 
Mateo is 3.14 people. 
108 of 134

--- page 109 ---
Draft Memorandum 
January 15, 2020 
San Mateo BMR Program Feasibility Analysis; EPS #181100  
Page 11 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\181000s\181100_SanMateoHousing\Report\181100_Memo_011520.docx 
 
consideration, and the Year 2019 applicable income limits, maximum rents, and maximum 
sale prices per City policy are shown on Table 6.   
Table 6 
Income Limits, Rents, and Sale Prices by Affordable Housing Income Level 
Percentage of
2019
Max Income
Maximum Rent
Maximum Sale Price
Affordability Category
County Median
3-person household
(2-bedroom unit)
(2-bedroom condo)
Extremely Low Income (ELI - 30)
30%
$36,930
$723
$111,000
Very Low Income (VLI - 50)
50%
$61,550
$1,339
$186,000
Low Income (LI - 60)
60%
$73,860
$1,647
$236,000
Low Income (LI - 70)
70%
$86,170
$1,954
$291,000
Low Income (LI - 80)
80%
$98,480
$2,262
$330,000
Median Income (Mod - 100)
100%
$123,100
$2,878
$449,000
Moderate Income (Mod - 110)
110%
$135,410
$3,185
$597,000
Above Moderate Income (AMod - 135) 
135%
$166,185
$3,955
$726,000
Market Rate
$4,600
$888,784
[1] Per City policy, maximum incomes and associated rents are based on the mathematical proportion of median income (e.g., actually 60% 
of median income), whereas HCD's income limits do not always conform to these mathematical proportions.
Source: State of CA HCD; City of San Mateo; Economic & Planning Systems, Inc.
  
•
Percentage of Gross Household Income Available for Housing Costs—This analysis uses HCD 
standards on overpaying for rent, at no more than 30 percent of gross household for renters. 
Ownership housing costs are also set at 30 percent of gross household income in keeping 
with the City’s BMR ordinance. 
•
Housing Costs Included for For-Sale Units—Ownership housing costs include mortgage 
principal and interest, plus annual Homeowners Association (HOA) fees and insurance costs, 
estimated private mortgage insurance payments, and property taxes at 1.2 percent of unit 
price to reflect potential special assessment districts in addition to the base one percent 
property tax rate.  
 
 
 
•
Mortgage Terms—The analysis assumes a 30-year fixed mortgage, 4.5 percent interest rate,3 
and a 5 percent down payment. Traditional lending standards suggest a 20 percent down 
payment, but FHA insurance is available for loans with as little as 3.5 percent down. Also, 
buyers of "affordable" homes often do not have wealth reserves comparable to buyers of 
market rate homes.  
•
Housing Costs Included for Rental Units—In addition to rent payments, the analysis assumes 
approximately $2,400 per year ($200 per month) in utility costs based on the San Mateo 
County Housing Authority 2018 utility allowance table. The combination of rent payments 
and utilities payments are assumed to equal 30 percent of household income. 
3 Interest rate assumption based on the 10-year average interest rates for conventional, conforming 
30-year mortgages published by Freddie Mac. 
109 of 134

--- page 110 ---
Draft Memorandum 
January 15, 2020 
San Mateo BMR Program Feasibility Analysis; EPS #181100  
Page 12 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\181000s\181100_SanMateoHousing\Report\181100_Memo_011520.docx 
 
•
Operating Costs for Rental Units—Based on recent pro formas for affordable apartments on 
the Peninsula, the analysis assumes that affordable apartment operators incur costs of 
$11,000 per unit, and not be subject to property taxes. The same figure is applied to all 
affordable units in this analysis, assuming that those at the higher income levels may offer 
less costly support services but may also be subject to property taxes. EPS has assumed that 
market-rate units would be built by for-profit builders and thus subject to property taxes, 
with total operating costs equaling 25 percent of gross market-rate rents. 
Development Cost Assumptions 
Housing development costs include direct costs (e.g., labor and materials), indirect or “soft” 
costs (e.g., architecture, entitlement, marketing, etc.), developer profit, and land. For rental 
projects, operating costs also must be incorporated into the analysis. Data from recent land 
transactions have been combined with EPS’s information from various market rate and affordable 
housing developers to determine appropriate development cost assumptions for use in San 
Mateo. These assumptions are shown on Table 7. Note that land cost is shown on a per-acre 
basis in this table. Land cost is incorporated on a per-unit basis in each scenario of the 
subsequent feasibility analysis as the per-unit land cost is variable depending on the unit density 
of each scenario.  
 
Table 7 
Estimated Development Costs per Unit by Building Type 
Rental 4-6 
Stories, Wood-
Frame + Podium 
Parking
Rental 4-6 
Stories, Wood-
Frame Wrap
Ownership 4-6 
Stories, Wood-
Frame + Podium 
Parking
Ownership 
Townhomes
Denser Rental 4-
6 Stories, Wood-
Frame + Podium 
Parking
Development Program Assumptions [1]
Base Density/Acre
50
50
50
22
100
Gross Unit Size
1,200
1,200
1,200
1,350
950
Net Unit Size
1,000
1,000
1,000
1,350
800
Number of Bedrooms 
2
2
2
2
1
Number of Persons per Unit [2]
3
3
3
3
2
Parking Spaces/Unit
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
110 of 134

--- page 111 ---
Draft Memorandum 
January 15, 2020 
San Mateo BMR Program Feasibility Analysis; EPS #181100  
Page 13 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\181000s\181100_SanMateoHousing\Report\181100_Memo_011520.docx 
 
Cost Assumptions
Direct Costs
Direct Construction Costs/Gross SF [3]
$342
$342
$355
$305
$365
Direct Construction Costs/Unit
$410,400
$410,400
$426,000
$411,750
$346,750
Parking Construction Costs/Space
$50,000
$40,000
$50,000
included
$50,000
Parking Construction Costs/Unit
$75,000
$60,000
$75,000
included
$75,000
Subtotal, Direct Costs/Unit
$485,400
$470,400
$501,000
$411,750
$421,750
Indirect Costs as a % of Direct Costs [4]
35%
35%
50%
45%
35%
Indirect Costs/Unit
$169,890
$164,640
$250,500
$185,288
$147,613
Total Cost/Unit without Land
$655,290
$635,040
$751,500
$597,038
$569,363
Land/Acre [5]
$10,000,000
$10,000,000
$10,000,000
$10,000,000
$10,000,000
[1]
Density assumption provided by City of San Mateo. Number of units, unit sizes, and average number of parking spaces informed by recently built units (2015-2018) 
in San Mateo.
[2]
An average of 3 persons is used for this analysis based on Census data indicating the average family size in San Mateo is approximately 3 persons, and State law 
(Health and Safety Code Section 50052.5) indicates that a 2-bedroom unit should be assumed to be occupied by a 3-person household; assumes 2 persons for the 1bedroom 
prototype. 
[3]
Includes on-site work, offsite work, vertical construction, general requirements, overhead and contractor fees. Based on a 2018 application for a multifamily 
development in San Mateo, then revised to reflect developer feedback. EPS assumes ownership units have higher levels of finish (lighting, appliances, etc.) that increase costs 
compared to similar rentals. 
[4]
Includes costs for architecture and engineering; entitlement and fees; project management; appraisal and market study; marketing, commissions, and general 
administration; financing and charges; insurance; developer fee and contingency.
[5]
Developer comments indicate land values at $10M per acre, above the $8M/acre based on the appraisal of the Bay Meadows site at 2775 South Delaware Street 
and its comparables, dated June 14, 2018. Land cost per unit varies by inclusionary requirement based on City's Density Bonus Ordinance.
Source: City of San Mateo; CoStar; Redfin; Economic & Planning Systems, Inc.
 
Density Bonus 
The State of California Density Bonus Law mandates that cities provide an increase in the 
maximum density allowed by local zoning regulations for developments that include certain 
amounts of affordable housing units. The City of San Mateo implements a density bonus program 
in compliance with the state law. Simply by complying with the City’s inclusionary requirements, 
new housing developments qualify for this density bonus (and development concessions) at 
various amounts according to the percent and level of affordability. For example, projects that 
meet the City’s standard by providing 10 percent of units at very-low-income for a rental project 
would qualify for a 32.5 percent density bonus while projects that meet the 15 percent 
lowincome option for a rental project would qualify for a 27.5 percent density bonus. Note that 
the inclusionary requirement is applied to the “base” density, or number of units in the project 
before accounting for density bonus, rather than applied to the total number of units; thus, 
bonus units can all be offered at market rate.  
The density bonus law has multiple effects on the financial feasibility of a project. On the cost 
side, for example, greater density per acre results in a lower per-unit land cost. From a revenue 
perspective, since the inclusionary requirement is applied to the base number of units rather 
than the total number of units, the extra units allowed through the density bonus can all be 
priced at market rate, thus increasing the proportion of market-rate to affordable units, which 
improves profit margins. Since the density bonus provision varies depending on the percent and 
level of affordability, projects in high-value areas such as San Mateo can actually yield higher 
profit margins by providing very low-income units (only 10 percent) over low-income units (15 
percent). The sensitivity testing described later in this report accounts for the effects of density 
bonus.  
111 of 134

--- page 112 ---
Draft Memorandum 
January 15, 2020 
San Mateo BMR Program Feasibility Analysis; EPS #181100  
Page 14 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\181000s\181100_SanMateoHousing\Report\181100_Memo_011520.docx 
 
Affordability Gap Results 
As shown on Tables 8, 9, 10, and 11, the costs to construct housing units in the City in the 
style of the four prototypes exceed the values for which those units can be sold or rented at BMR 
pricing affordable to income-qualified households. Table 8 shows the subsidies for construction 
of for-rent apartments in a wood-frame building with podium parking for extremely low-income 
through above moderate-income households, as well as market-rate units. As shown, such units 
are estimated to cost roughly $800,000 per unit to construct, based on current construction and 
land costs.  Units affordable at Very Low Income (50 percent of AMI) generate revenue that 
makes them worth only about $100,000, yielding an implied subsidy of roughly $700,000 for 
such units.  Units affordable at Extremely Low Income (30 percent of AMI) do not even cover 
their operating costs, and thus generate a negative value.  Even units priced for households 
earning Above Moderate Incomes at 135 percent of AMI appear to require a subsidy, with rents 
for such units estimated at $3,955 per month compared to market-rate rents nearer $4,600.  
Table 9 shows similar relationships for woodframe apartments with “wrap” parking instead of 
podium, which reduces the development costs while maintaining the same unit rents and values 
and thus yields higher profit margins for market-rate units compared to the prototype shown on 
Table 8.  Table 10 shows that for-sale condominiums with podium parking may not be feasible 
at this time even at market-rate pricing, with estimated development costs exceeding the 
market value of such units.  Market-rate townhome product (Table 11) appears to be the most 
feasible of the different types tested, with values exceeding costs by the highest margins, 
although the subsidies required for affordable townhomes are the greatest due to the very high 
land costs being spread over far fewer units per acre.   
 
112 of 134

--- page 113 ---
Draft Memorandum 
January 15, 2020 
San Mateo BMR Program Feasibility Analysis; EPS #181100  
Page 15 
 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\181000s\181100_SanMateoHousing\Report\181100_Memo_011520.docx 
 
Table 8 
Estimated Affordability Gap by Type for Rental 4-6 Stories, Wood-Frame and Podium Prototype 
Item
Market Rate
Above 
Moderate 
Income
Moderate 
Income
Median Income
Low Income
Low Income
Low Income
Very Low 
Income
Extremely Low 
Income
(135% of AMI)
(110% of AMI)
(100% of AMI)
(80% of AMI)
(70% of AMI)
(60% of AMI)
(50% of AMI)
(30% of AMI)
Income Limit [1]
N/A
$166,185
$135,410
$123,100
$98,480
$86,170
$73,860
$61,550
$36,930
Total Annual Housing Costs at 30% of Income
N/A
$49,856
$40,623
$36,930
$29,544
$25,851
$22,158
$18,465
$11,079
Less Utility Costs/Year [2]
N/A
$2,400
$2,400
$2,400
$2,400
$2,400
$2,400
$2,400
$2,400
Annual Rent
$55,200
$47,456
$38,223
$34,530
$27,144
$23,451
$19,758
$16,065
$8,679
Monthly Rent
$4,600
$3,955
$3,185
$2,878
$2,262
$1,954
$1,647
$1,339
$723
Operating Expenses per Unit/Year [3]
$13,800
$11,000
$11,000
$11,000
$11,000
$11,000
$11,000
$11,000
$11,000
Vacancy
5.0%
5.0%
5.0%
5.0%
5.0%
5.0%
5.0%
5.0%
5.0%
Net Operating Income
$39,330
$34,633
$25,862
$22,354
$15,337
$11,828
$8,320
$4,812
-$2,205
Capitalization Rate
4.5%
4.5%
4.5%
4.5%
4.5%
4.5%
4.5%
4.5%
4.5%
Apartment Unit Value
$874,000
$769,616
$574,708
$496,744
$340,818
$262,854
$184,891
$106,928
-$48,999
Development Cost of Affordable Unit before Land Cost
$655,290
$655,290
$655,290
$655,290
$655,290
$655,290
$655,290
$655,290
Land Cost [4]
$147,059
$147,059
$147,059
$147,059
$147,059
$147,059
$147,059
$147,059
Total Development Cost of Affordable Unit
$802,349
$802,349
$802,349
$802,349
$802,349
$802,349
$802,349
$802,349
Affordability Gap [5]
$32,733
$227,641
$305,604
$461,531
$539,494
$617,458
$695,421
$851,348
[1] Market rate rent informed by CoStar survey of 2-bedroom units in developments built 2015-2018 in San Mateo. BMR unit rents informed by 2019 income limits for San Mateo County as determined 
by HUD, State of CA HUD, and County of San Mateo.
[2] 2018 utility allowance schedule for San Mateo County. Assumes natural gas heating and cooking.
[3] Operating expenses assume 25% of rental income for market rate and a per-unit estimate from a 2018 CTCAC application for a proposed development in San Mateo for BMR. [4] Assumes 
affordable housing projects funded by proceeds of this program would be 100% affordable and therefore qualify for the maximum density bonus. [5] Affordability gap equals the subsidy required to 
construct this type of unit and offer it at the prescribed affordable price.
113 of 134

--- page 114 ---
Draft Memorandum 
January 15, 2020 
San Mateo BMR Program Feasibility Analysis; EPS #181100  
Page 16 
 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\181000s\181100_SanMateoHousing\Report\181100_Memo_011520.docx 
 
Sources: CoStar; Redfin; Economic & Planning Systems, Inc.
 
 
 
Table 9 
Estimated Affordability Gap by Type for Rental 4-6 Stories, Wood-Frame and Wrap Prototype 
Item
Market Rate
Above 
Moderate 
Income
Moderate 
Income
Median Income
Low Income
Low Income
Low Income
Very Low 
Income
Extremely Low 
Income
(135% of AMI)
(110% of AMI)
(100% of AMI)
(80% of AMI)
(70% of AMI)
(60% of AMI)
(50% of AMI)
(30% of AMI)
Income Limit [1]
N/A
$166,185
$135,410
$123,100
$98,480
$86,170
$73,860
$61,550
$36,930
Total Annual Housing Costs at 30% of Income
N/A
$49,856
$40,623
$36,930
$29,544
$25,851
$22,158
$18,465
$11,079
Less Utility Costs/Year [2]
N/A
$2,400
$2,400
$2,400
$2,400
$2,400
$2,400
$2,400
$2,400
Annual Rent
$55,200
$47,456
$38,223
$34,530
$27,144
$23,451
$19,758
$16,065
$8,679
Monthly Rent
$4,600
$3,955
$3,185
$2,878
$2,262
$1,954
$1,647
$1,339
$723
Operating Expenses per Unit/Year [3]
$13,800
$11,000
$11,000
$11,000
$11,000
$11,000
$11,000
$11,000
$11,000
Vacancy
5.0%
5.0%
5.0%
5.0%
5.0%
5.0%
5.0%
5.0%
5.0%
Net Operating Income
$39,330
$34,633
$25,862
$22,354
$15,337
$11,828
$8,320
$4,812
-$2,205
Capitalization Rate
4.5%
4.5%
4.5%
4.5%
4.5%
4.5%
4.5%
4.5%
4.5%
Apartment Unit Value
$874,000
$769,616
$574,708
$496,744
$340,818
$262,854
$184,891
$106,928
-$48,999
Development Cost of Affordable Unit before Land Cost
$635,040
$635,040
$635,040
$635,040
$635,040
$635,040
$635,040
$635,040
Land Cost [4]
$147,059
$147,059
$147,059
$147,059
$147,059
$147,059
$147,059
$147,059
Total Development Cost of Affordable Unit
$782,099
$782,099
$782,099
$782,099
$782,099
$782,099
$782,099
$782,099
Affordability Gap [5]
$12,483
$207,391
$285,354
$441,281
$519,244
$597,208
$675,171
$831,098
114 of 134

--- page 115 ---
Draft Memorandum 
January 15, 2020 
San Mateo BMR Program Feasibility Analysis; EPS #181100  
Page 17 
 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\181000s\181100_SanMateoHousing\Report\181100_Memo_011520.docx 
 
[1] Market rate rent informed by CoStar survey of 2-bedroom units in developments built 2015-2018 in San Mateo. BMR unit rents informed by 2019 income limits for San Mateo County as determined 
by HUD, State of CA HUD, and County of San Mateo.
[2] 2018 utility allowance schedule for San Mateo County. Assumes natural gas heating and cooking.
[3] Operating expenses assume 25% of rental income for market rate and a per-unit estimate from a 2018 CTCAC application for a proposed development in San Mateo for BMR.
[4] Assumes affordable housing projects funded by proceeds of this program would be 100% affordable and therefore qualify for the maximum density bonus. [5] Affordability gap equals the subsidy 
required to construct this type of unit and offer it at the prescribed affordable price.
Sources: CoStar; Redfin; Economic & Planning Systems, Inc.
 
Table 10 Estimated Affordability Gap by Type for Ownership 4-6 Stories, Wood-Frame and Podium Prototype 
Item
Market Rate [1]
Above 
Moderate 
Income
Moderate 
Income
Median Income
Low Income
Low Income
Low Income
Very Low 
Income
Extremely Low 
Income
(135% of AMI)
(110% of AMI)
(100% of AMI)
(80% of AMI)
(70% of AMI)
(60% of AMI)
(50% of AMI)
(30% of AMI)
Household Income [2]
N/A
$166,185
$135,410
$123,100
$98,480
$86,170
$73,860
$61,550
$36,930
Income Available for Housing Costs/Year [3]
N/A
$58,165
$47,394
$36,930
$29,544
$25,851
$22,158
$18,465
$11,079
Less Non-Mortgage Housing Costs [4]
N/A
$14,322
$11,670
$10,100
$9,643
$8,438
$7,884
$7,330
$4,398
Income Available for Mortgage
N/A
$43,843
$35,729
$26,831
$19,901
$17,413
$14,274
$11,135
$6,681
Mortgage Interest Rate [5]
N/A
4.8%
4.8%
4.8%
4.8%
4.8%
4.8%
4.8%
4.8%
Mortgage Repayment Period (years)
N/A
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
Condominium Unit Value [6]
$888,784
$726,000
$597,000
$449,000
$330,000
$291,000
$236,000
$186,000
$111,000
Development Cost of Affordable Unit before Land Cost
$751,500
$751,500
$751,500
$751,500
$751,500
$751,500
$751,500
$751,500
Land Cost [7]
$147,059
$147,059
$147,059
$147,059
$147,059
$147,059
$147,059
$147,059
Total Development Cost of Affordable Unit
$898,559
$898,559
$898,559
$898,559
$898,559
$898,559
$898,559
$898,559
Affordability Gap [8]
$172,559
$301,559
$449,559
$568,559
$607,559
$662,559
$712,559
$787,559
[1] Market rate pricing informed by Redfin survey of 2-bedroom condo units in developments built 2015-2018 in San Mateo.
115 of 134

--- page 116 ---
Draft Memorandum 
January 15, 2020 
San Mateo BMR Program Feasibility Analysis; EPS #181100  
Page 18 
 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\181000s\181100_SanMateoHousing\Report\181100_Memo_011520.docx 
 
[2] 2019 3-person household income limits for San Mateo County.
[3] Assumes 30% of income for BMR for-sale units at 100% of AMI or below, 35% of income for BMR units above 100% of AMI. [4] Includes taxes at 1.2% of unit value, plus insurance, HOA dues, and 
utilities per City schedule.
[5] Based on City standards for calculating below-market-rate housing sale prices.
[6] Assumes a 5% down payment for all income levels, per City BMR price-setting standards. 
[7] Assumes affordable housing projects funded by proceeds of this program would be 100% affordable and therefore qualify for the maximum density bonus. [8] Affordability gap equals the subsidy 
required to construct this type of unit and offer it at the prescribed affordable price.
Sources: CoStar; Redfin; Economic & Planning Systems, Inc.
 
 
 
 
Table 11 Estimated Affordability Gap by Type for Ownership Townhome Prototype  
Item
Market Rate [1]
Above 
Moderate 
Income
Moderate 
Income
Median Income
Low Income
Low Income
Low Income
Very Low 
Income
Extremely Low 
Income
(135% of AMI)
(110% of AMI)
(100% of AMI)
(80% of AMI)
(70% of AMI)
(60% of AMI)
(50% of AMI)
(30% of AMI)
Household Income [2]
N/A
$166,185
$135,410
$123,100
$98,480
$86,170
$73,860
$61,550
$36,930
Income Available for Housing Costs/Year [3]
N/A
$58,165
$47,394
$36,930
$29,544
$25,851
$22,158
$18,465
$11,079
Less Non-Mortgage Housing Costs [4]
N/A
$14,322
$11,670
$10,100
$9,643
$8,438
$7,884
$7,330
$4,398
Income Available for Mortgage
N/A
$43,843
$35,729
$26,831
$19,901
$17,413
$14,274
$11,135
$6,681
Mortgage Interest Rate [5]
N/A
4.8%
4.8%
4.8%
4.8%
4.8%
4.8%
4.8%
4.8%
Mortgage Repayment Period (years)
N/A
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
Townhome Unit Value [6]
$1,242,209
$726,000
$670,000
$449,000
$330,000
$291,000
$236,000
$186,000
$111,000
Development Cost of Affordable Unit before Land Cost
$597,038
$597,038
$597,038
$597,038
$597,038
$597,038
$597,038
$597,038
116 of 134

--- page 117 ---
Draft Memorandum 
January 15, 2020 
San Mateo BMR Program Feasibility Analysis; EPS #181100  
Page 19 
 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\181000s\181100_SanMateoHousing\Report\181100_Memo_011520.docx 
 
Land Cost
$454,545
$454,545
$454,545
$454,545
$454,545
$454,545
$454,545
$454,545
Total Development Cost of Affordable Unit
$1,051,583
$1,051,583
$1,051,583
$1,051,583
$1,051,583
$1,051,583
$1,051,583
$1,051,583
Affordability Gap [7]
$325,583
$381,583
$602,583
$721,583
$760,583
$815,583
$865,583
$940,583
[1] Market rate pricing informed by Redfin survey of 2-bedroom townhome units in developments built 2015-2018 in San Mateo.
[2] 2019 3-person household income limits for San Mateo County.
[3] Assumes 30% of income for BMR for-sale units at 100% of AMI or below, 35% of income for BMR units above 100% of AMI. 
[4] Includes taxes at 1.2% of unit value, plus insurance, HOA dues, and utilities per City schedule. [5] Based on City standards for calculating below-market-rate housing sale prices.
[6] Assumes a 5% down payment for all income levels, per City BMR price-setting standards. 
[7] Affordability gap equals the subsidy required to construct this type of unit and offer it at the prescribed affordable price.
Sources: CoStar; Redfin; Economic & Planning Systems, Inc.
117 of 134

--- page 118 ---
Draft Memorandum 
January 15, 2020 
San Mateo BMR Program Feasibility Analysis; EPS #181100  
Page 20 
 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\181000s\181100_SanMateoHousing\Report\181100_Memo_011520.docx 
 
Sensitivity Testing 
Having estimated the costs to construct new housing of various types, and the prices at which 
they could be sold or rented at both market rate and below-market rate pricing, this analysis 
assesses the economic implications of the City’s current BMR program and potential 
amendments to that program. The analysis shown in Appendix A Tables A-1 through A-4 
details how changes to the rental inclusionary requirement and the ownership/for-sale 
inclusionary requirement for the different residential prototypes can change total project values 
per unit. On each table, the first and second scenarios represent the City’s current inclusionary 
requirement options, as if the developers build the required number of affordable units within 
their projects. The additional scenarios show how different proportions of BMR units at different 
income levels can affect the average value per unit in the project after accounting for applicable 
density bonuses. Implicit in these comparisons is the idea that construction costs per unit for 
each building prototype are essentially equivalent regardless of the inclusionary requirement, 
and thus the impact of each inclusionary alternative on the economics of the project can be 
understood through the changes in average unit values.4   
For example, the first scenario on Appendix Table A-1 shows that a 4- to 6-story wood-frame 
rental project with podium parking of 100 base units meeting the City’s basic inclusionary 
requirement by pricing 10 percent of the units at 50 percent of AMI would qualify for a 32.5 
percent density bonus (increasing from 50 DU/Acre to 67 DU/Acre), resulting in a 133-unit 
project. The project would be worth a total of roughly $108.6 million, or an average of $816,000 
per unit.   
By contrast, if the same project were to include the City’s alternative requirement of 15 percent 
of units offered at 60 percent of AMI, the project would only qualify for a 27.5 percent density 
bonus (from 50 DU/Acre to 64 DU/Acre), resulting in a 128-unit project. Compared to the 
project with 10 percent of units at 50 percent of AMI, the total development value per unit 
would decrease to $793,000. In this alternative, a prudent developer would elect to comply with 
the 10 percent requirement rather than the 15 percent option. The same relationship occurs for 
each of the tested prototypes when the project is assumed to build 15 percent BMR units at the 
higher AMI level compared to 10 percent at the lower AMI level. Based on these results, it 
appears the City’s current inclusionary requirements provides a significant financial incentive to 
choose the 10 percent requirement rather than the 15 percent requirement.  
 
 
4 It is specifically not represented here that a given inclusionary requirement is or is not feasible, per 
se, because many factors affect how inclusionary requirements are incorporated into the economics of 
future projects that may be subject to altered inclusionary requirements.  For example, if the 
inclusionary requirements are amended, that may have an effect on land values that change the 
economics of development and maintain feasibility.  Moreover, as noted above, different building 
prototypes have different feasibility profiles, and a certain inclusionary requirement may have different 
impacts on the feasibility of different housing types. 
118 of 134

--- page 119 ---
Draft Memorandum 
January 15, 2020 
San Mateo BMR Program Feasibility Analysis; EPS #181100  
Page 21 
 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\181000s\181100_SanMateoHousing\Report\181100_Memo_011520.docx 
 
 
For all four building prototypes, the existing 10 percent requirement yields the highest possible 
average unit values, generally because it conferred the greatest number of market-rate units in 
the project. No alternative options tested were able to match these average unit values, 
although it is possible that the results would be different under different market circumstances 
regarding development values. 
The third scenario on each Appendix table, “Staff Recommendation,” presents the proposed 
updated requirements; eliminating the current options to provide only 10 percent BMR units and 
requiring 15 percent at an average of 70 percent of AMI (rather than the City’s current standard 
of 60 percent of AMI) for rental and 15 percent at an average of 100 percent of AMI for 
ownership (consistent with the City’s current 15 percent requirement). These proposed 
requirements reflect City staff’s recommended response to Council direction to seek updates to 
the program that would simultaneously achieve the production of more affordable units as well 
as achieving units at a more diverse range of affordability levels. Notably, under the proposed 
update for rental projects, a 100-unit project providing 15 percent of units at an average of 70 
percent of AMI would qualify for only a 10 percent density bonus because State law considers 
rental units at 70 percent of AMI to be “moderate income” units entitled to a lower bonus than 
units offered at 60 percent of AMI or below.  As a result, the project would have a total of 95 
market rate units and 15 BMR units yielding an average unit value of $791,000 for the entire 
project – slightly below what can be achieved under the City’s current 15 percent requirement 
(at 60 percent of AMI) for rental projects because at the current levels the project would 
achieve a greater density bonus.  For this reason, a prudent developer might choose to comply 
with the City’s amended 15 percent standard by providing 11 percent Very Low Income units (at 
50% of AMI) and the remaining 4 percent of units at 70 percent of AMI, thus maximizing the 
density bonus and achieving a higher average unit value as shown on the “Staff 
Recommendation” / ”Developer Alternative” columns of Tables A-1 and A-2. 
The additional scenarios on each table present options within a range of affordability interests 
expressed by the Council, including options that incorporate a mix of incomes including 
Extremely Low Income units (30 percent of AMI) and others that allow units above standard 
affordability categories “”Above Moderate” units (135 percent of AMI) that may address current 
affordability challenges for even upper middle class households.  In addition, City staff also 
indicated the desire to test affordability levels that would allow for a 20 percent requirement, as 
some area jurisdictions currently require. In some cases for rental development, the average 
values per unit can exceed those achieved under the Staff Recommendation scenarios, but only 
by providing some of the affordable units at Moderate income levels (up to 110 percent of AMI) 
or even Above Moderate income (up to 135 percent of AMI).  For for-sale developments, none of 
the alternatives tested yield a higher average value per unit than the Staff Recommendation.  
The data in this analysis can be used to determine potential viable options, but given that there 
is a virtually infinite number of such potential combinations, EPS has modeled only a selection of 
such options. Please note that under current density bonus law, the advantages of added 
density are muted if the City were to require a project to provide affordable units in more than 
one income category (e.g., some low-income and some moderate-income). This is because the 
State’s current density bonus formula provides credit for only one income category. As such, 
119 of 134

--- page 120 ---
Draft Memorandum 
January 15, 2020 
San Mateo BMR Program Feasibility Analysis; EPS #181100  
Page 22 
 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\181000s\181100_SanMateoHousing\Report\181100_Memo_011520.docx 
 
requiring a “blend” of income levels may yield lower project feasibility than would requiring a 
single income category for affordable units.  
In-Lieu Fee Calculation 
The City currently allows developers to pay in-lieu fees only for fractional units – for instance, if a 
72-unit project were required to build 7.2 BMR units, seven must be built on-site and the 
developer could pay a fee for the 0.2 fractional units.  Presently, the City’s in-lieu fee is applied 
at $15,120 per 0.1 fractional units required, but this figure has not been comprehensively 
updated to reflect contemporary development economics for many years.  Using the results of 
the development cost and value calculations herein and applying those to the “Staff 
Recommendation” BMR scenarios, the updated in-lieu fee is calculated as follows (and is 
consistent with industry-standard approaches for calculating in-lieu fees): 
    $519,244 (Affordability Gap for wood-frame unit at 70% AMI on Table 9) 
X           0.1 (Fractional Units Required) 
=   $51,924 
(In-Lieu Fee per 0.1 Fractional Unit Required but not Provided On-Site) 
 
This approach to updating the in-lieu fees assumes that the City would collect the money and 
use it to subsidize the construction of wood-frame affordable rental housing with wrap parking, 
even if the project paying the fee were a different density.  Due primarily to development cost 
increases since the last comprehensive BMR fee update, the current calculation more than 
triples the fee that the City has been requiring.  
EPS used the same approach to model the updated in-lieu fee for ownership housing, with the 
assumption that the collected money would be used to subsidize the construction of wood-frame 
affordable condominium housing at 68 units per acre (rather than townhomes, which have 
higher overall development costs and thus require greater subsidy per BMR unit) using the 
affordability gap for building a unit at 100 percent of AMI.  
    $449,559 (Affordability Gap for wood-frame unit at 100% AMI on Table 10) 
X           0.1 (Fractional Units Required) 
=   $44,956 
(In-Lieu Fee per 0.1 Fractional Unit Required but not Provided On-Site) 
 
Interestingly, the fractional in-lieu fee is greater for rental projects than it is for for-sale 
projects.  This result is attributed to the fact that the type of developments to be subsidized 
with the fee have similar costs, but the subsidy required to provide rental units at 70 percent of 
AMI greatly exceed the subsidy required to provide a similar for-sale unit at 100 percent of AMI.  
 
120 of 134

--- page 121 ---
APPENDIX A

121 of 134


--- page 122 ---
122 of 134

--- page 123 ---
Table A-1
DRAFT
Feasibility Impacts of Alternative Affordable Housing Requirements - Rental 4-6 Stories, Wood-Frame + Podium Parking
City of San Mateo Below Market Housing Policy Analysis, EPS #181100
Current Ordinance
Staff Recommendation
Additional Scenarios
Item [1]
10% Inclusionary
15% Inclusionary
15% Inclusionary
15% Inclusionary
15% Inclusionary
15% Inclusionary
15% Inclusionary
20% Inclusionary
Developer Alternative
5% VLI (50% AMI)
10% LOW (60% AMI)
Baseline
11% VLI (50% AMI)
11% ELI (30% AMI)
11% VLI (50% AMI)
5% LOW (70% AMI)
5% MOD (110% AMI)
VLI (50% AMI)
LOW (60% AMI)
LOW (70% AMI)
4% LOW (70% AMI)
4% MOD (110% AMI)
4% MOD (110% AMI)
5% MOD (110% AMI)
5% AMOD (135% AMI)
Base Density (DU/Acre)
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
Eligible Percent Density Bonus
32.5%
27.5%
10.0%
35.0%
35.0%
35.0%
20.0%
20.0%
Density (DU/Acre) after Density Bonus [3]
66
64
55
68
68
68
60
60
Base Units (for Inclusionary Req.)
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
Units in Project after Density Bonus
Units by Price Point
133
128
110
135
135
135
120
120
Market Rate Units
123
113
95
120
120
120
105
100
Value/Market Rate Unit
$874,000
$874,000
$874,000
$874,000
$874,000
$874,000
$874,000
$874,000
Aggregate Market Rate Unit Value
$107,502,000
$98,762,000
$83,030,000
$104,880,000
$104,880,000
$104,880,000
$91,770,000
$87,400,000
AMod Income Units (135% of AMI)
0
0
0
0
Value/Moderate Income Unit $769,616 $769,616 $769,616 $769,616 Aggregate Moderate Income Unit Value $0 $0 $0 $0
Moderate Income Units (110% of AMI)
0
0
0
0
Value/Moderate Income Unit
$574,708
$574,708
$574,708
$574,708
$574,708
$574,708
$574,708
$574,708
Aggregate Moderate Income Unit Value
$0
$0
$0
$0
$2,298,831
$2,298,831
$2,873,539
$2,873,539
Moderate Income Units (100% of AMI)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Value/Moderate Income Unit
$496,744
$496,744
$496,744
$496,744
$496,744
$496,744
$496,744
$496,744
Aggregate Moderate Income Unit Value
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
Low Income Units (80% of AMI)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Value/Moderate Income Unit
$340,818
$340,818
$340,818
$340,818
$340,818
$340,818
$340,818
$340,818
Aggregate Moderate Income Unit Value
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
0
0
Low Income Units (70% of AMI)
15
4
0
0
5
0
$262,854
$262,854
$262,854
$262,854
Value/Moderate Income Unit
$262,
$262,854
$262,854
854
$262,854
$3,942,817
$1,051,418
$0
$0
$
Aggregate Moderate Income Unit Value
$0
$1,314,272
$0
0
0
Low Income Units (60% of AMI)
15
0
0
0
0
0
10
$184,891
$184,891
$184,891
$184,891
$184,891
$1
Value/Low Income Unit
84,891
$184,891
$184,891
$2,773,367
$0
$0
$0
$1,848,911
$0
$0
$0
Aggregate Low Income Unit Value
VLI Units (50% of AMI)
10
0
0
11
0
5
11
0
$106,928
$
$106,928
$106,928
Value/VLI Unit
$106,928
$106,928
$106,928
106,928
$106,928
$0
$1,176,206
$53
$1,176,206
Aggregate VLI Unit Value
$1,069,278
$0
$0
$0
4,639
0
ELI Units (30% of AMI)
0
0
0
11
0
0
0
Value/VLI Unit
-$48,999
-$48,999
-$48,999
-$48,999
-$48,999
-$48,999
-$48,999
-$48,999
Aggregate VLI Unit Value
$0
$0
$0
$0
-$538,988
$0
$0
$0
Total Project Value
$108,571,278
$101,535,367
$86,972,817
$107,107,623
$106,639,843
$108,355,037
$96,492,450
$95,970,531
Weighted Avg. Value/Unit
$816,325
$793,245
$790,662
$793,390
$789,925
$802,630
$804,104
$799,754
Difference from Best Current Option
n/a
-2.8%
-3.1%
-2.8%
-3.2%
-1.7%
-1.5%
-2.0%
0
0
0
5
$769,616
$769,616
$769,616
$769,616
$3,848,081
$0
$0
$0
4
4
5
5
123 of 134

--- page 124 ---
DRAFT
Table A-2
Feasibility Impacts of Alternative Affordable Housing Requireme
City of San Mateo Below Market Housing Policy Analysis, EPS #18
Economic & Planning Systems, Inc.   1/15/2020
P:\21000s\21076SanMateoNexus\Model\181100_Model_011420
Difference from Staff Recommendation
3.2%
0.3%
n/a
0.3%
-0.1%
1.5%
1.7%
1.1%
[1] Applies inclusionary requirement to the base number of units in project before density bonus. 
Sources: City of San Mateo; Economic & Planning Systems, Inc.
Economic & Planning Systems, Inc.   1/15/2020
P:\21000s\21076SanMateoNexus\Model\181100_Model_011420
nts - Rental 4-6 Stories, Wood-Frame Wrap
1100
Base Density (DU/Acre)
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
Eligible Percent Density Bonus
32.5%
27.5%
10.0%
35.0%
35.0%
35.0%
20.0%
20.0%
Density (DU/Acre) after Density Bonus [3]
66
64
55
68
68
68
60
60
Base Units (for Inclusionary Req.)
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
Units in Project after Density Bonus
Units by Price Point
133
128
110
135
135
135
120
120
Market Rate Units
123
113
95
120
120
120
105
100
Value/Market Rate Unit
$874,000
$874,000
$874,000
$874,000
$874,000
$874,000
$874,000
$874,000
Aggregate Market Rate Unit Value
$107,502,000
$98,762,000
$83,030,000
$104,880,000
$104,880,000
$104,880,000
$91,770,000
$87,400,000
AMod Income Units (135% of AMI)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
Value/Moderate Income Unit
$769,616
$769,616
$769,616
$769,616
$769,616
$769,616
$769,616
$769,616
Aggregate Moderate Income Unit Value
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$3,848,081
Moderate Income Units (110% of AMI)
0
0
0
0
4
4
5
5
Value/Moderate Income Unit
$574,708
$574,708
$574,708
$574,708
$574,708
$574,708
$574,708
$574,708
Aggregate Moderate Income Unit Value
$0
$0
$0
$0
$2,298,831
$2,298,831
$2,873,539
$2,873,539
Moderate Income Units (100% of AMI)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Value/Moderate Income Unit
$496,744
$496,744
$496,744
$496,744
$496,744
$496,744
$496,744
$496,744
Aggregate Moderate Income Unit Value
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
Low Income Units (80% of AMI)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Value/Moderate Income Unit
$340,818
$340,818
$340,818
$340,818
$340,818
$340,818
$340,818
$340,818
Aggregate Moderate Income Unit Value
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
Low Income Units (70% of AMI)
0
0
15
4
0
0
5
0
Value/Moderate Income Unit
$262,854
$262,854
$262,854
$262,854
$262,854
$262,854
$262,854
$262,854
Aggregate Moderate Income Unit Value
$0
$0
$3,942,817
$1,051,418
$0
$0
$1,314,272
$0
Low Income Units (60% of AMI)
0
15
0
0
0
0
0
10
Value/Low Income Unit
$184,891
$184,891
$184,891
$184,891
$184,891
$184,891
$184,891
$184,891
Aggregate Low Income Unit Value
$0
$2,773,367
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$1,848,911
124 of 134

--- page 125 ---
DRAFT
Table A-3
Feasibility Impacts of Alternative Affordable Housing Requireme
City of San Mateo Below Market Housing Policy Analysis, EPS #18
Economic & Planning Systems, Inc.   1/15/2020
P:\21000s\21076SanMateoNexus\Model\181100_Model_011420
Current Ordinance
Staff Recommendation
Additional Scenarios
Item [1]
10% Inclusionary
15% Inclusionary
15% Inclusionary
15% Inclusionary
15% Inclusionary
15% Inclusionary
15% Inclusionary
20% Inclusionary
VLI (50% AMI)
LOW (60% AMI)
Baseline 
LOW (70% AMI)
Developer Alternative
11% VLI (50% AMI)
4% LOW (70% AMI)
11% ELI (30% AMI)
4% MOD (110% AMI)
11% VLI (50% AMI)
4% MOD (110% AMI)
5% VLI (50% AMI)
5% LOW (70% AMI)
5% MOD (110% AMI)
10% LOW (60% AMI)
5% MOD (110% AMI)
5% AMOD (135% AMI)
VLI Units (50% of AMI)
10
0
0
11
0
11
5
0
Value/VLI Unit
$106,928
$106,928
$106,928
$106,928
$106,928
$106,928
$106,928
$106,928
Aggregate VLI Unit Value
$1,069,278
$0
$0
$1,176,206
$0
$1,176,206
$534,639
$0
ELI Units (30% of AMI)
0
0
0
0
11
0
0
0
Value/VLI Unit
-$48,999
-$48,999
-$48,999
-$48,999
-$48,999
-$48,999
-$48,999
-$48,999
Aggregate VLI Unit Value
$0
$0
$0
$0
-$538,988
$0
$0
$0
Total Project Value
$108,571,278
$101,535,367
$86,972,817
$107,107,623
$106,639,843
$108,355,037
$96,492,450
$95,970,531
Weighted Avg. Value/Unit
$816,325
$793,245
$790,662
$793,390
$789,925
$802,630
$804,104
$799,754
Difference from Best Current Option
n/a
-2.8%
-3.1%
-2.8%
-3.2%
-1.7%
-1.5%
-2.0%
Difference from Staff Recommendation
3.2%
0.3%
n/a
0.3%
-0.1%
1.5%
1.7%
1.1%
[1] Applies inclusionary requirement to the base number of units in project before density bonus. 
Sources: City of San Mateo; Economic & Planning Systems, Inc.
125 of 134

--- page 126 ---
DRAFT
Table A-4
Feasibility Impacts of Alternative Affordable Housing Requireme
City of San Mateo Below Market Housing Policy Analysis, EPS #18
Economic & Planning Systems, Inc.   1/15/2020
P:\21000s\21076SanMateoNexus\Model\181100_Model_011420
nts - Ownership 4-6 Stories, Wood-Frame + Podium Parking
1100
Staff Recommendation
% Inc
Item [1]
10% Inclusionary
15
15% Inclusionary
% Inclusionary
15
15% Inclusionary
20% In
lusionary
% Inclusionary
15
15% Inclusionary
clusionary
MOD (100% AMI)
LOW (70% AMI)
Same as Current 15%
MOD (100% AMI)
)
% VLI (50% AMI
11
)
% LOW (70% AMI
15
)
% MOD (110% AMI
4
10% LOW (70% AMI )
5% MOD (110% AMI )
)
% VLI (50% AMI
5
)
5% LOW (70% AMI
)
% MOD (110% AMI
5
10% LOW (70% AMI )
% MOD (110% AMI )
5
5% AMOD (135% AMI )
50
Base Density (DU/Acre)
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
Current Ordinance
Additional Scenarios
Difference from Best Current Option
n/a
-1.2%
-1.2%
-1.9%
-2.4%
-1.4%
-2.0%
-2.3% Difference from Staff Recommendation
1.2%
0.0%
n/a
-0.7%
-1.2%
-0.2%
-0.8%
-1.1%
Eligible Percent Density Bonus
20.0%
10.0%
10.0%
35.0%
27.5%
20.0%
20.0%
20.0%
Density (DU/Acre) after Density Bonus [3]
60
55
55
68
64
60
60
60
Base Units (for Inclusionary Req.)
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
Units in Project after Density Bonus
Units by Price Point
120
110
110
135
128
120
120
120
Market Rate Units
110
95
95
120
113
105
105
100
Value/Market Rate Unit
$888,784
$888,784
$888,784
$888,784
$888,784
$888,784
$888,784
$888,784
Aggregate Market Rate Unit Value
$97,766,234
$84,434,475
$84,434,475
$106,654,074
$100,432,586
$93,322,314
$93,322,314
$88,878,395
AMod Income Units (135% of AMI)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
Value/Moderate Income Unit
$726,000
$726,000
$726,000
$726,000
$726,000
$726,000
$726,000
$726,000
Aggregate Moderate Income Unit Value
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$3,630,000
Moderate Income Units (110% of AMI)
0
0
0
4
0
5
5
5
Value/Moderate Income Unit
$597,000
$597,000
$597,000
$597,000
$597,000
$597,000
$597,000
$597,000
Aggregate Moderate Income Unit Value
$0
$0
$0
$2,388,000
$0
$2,985,000
$2,985,000
$2,985,000
Moderate Income Units (100% of AMI)
0
15
15
0
0
0
0
0
Value/Moderate Income Unit
$449,000
$449,000
$449,000
$449,000
$449,000
$449,000
$449,000
$449,000
Aggregate Moderate Income Unit Value
$0
$6,735,000
$6,735,000
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
Low Income Units (80% of AMI)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Value/Moderate Income Unit
$330,000
$330,000
$330,000
$330,000
$330,000
$330,000
$330,000
$330,000
Aggregate Moderate Income Unit Value
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
Low Income Units (70% of AMI)
10
0
0
0
15
10
5
10
Value/Moderate Income Unit
$291,000
$291,000
$291,000
$291,000
$291,000
$291,000
$291,000
$291,000
Aggregate Moderate Income Unit Value
$2,910,000
$0
$0
$0
$4,365,000
$2,910,000
$1,455,000
$2,910,000
Low Income Units (60% of AMI)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Value/Low Income Unit
$236,000
$236,000
$236,000
$236,000
$236,000
$236,000
$236,000
$236,000
Aggregate Low Income Unit Value
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
VLI Units (50% of AMI)
0
0
0
11
0
0
5
0
Value/VLI Unit
$186,000
$186,000
$186,000
$186,000
$186,000
$186,000
$186,000
$186,000
Aggregate VLI Unit Value
$0
$0
$0
$2,046,000
$0
$0
$930,000
$0
ELI Units (30% of AMI)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Value/VLI Unit
$111,000
$111,000
$111,000
$111,000
$111,000
$111,000
$111,000
$111,000
Aggregate VLI Unit Value
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
Total Project Value
$100,676,234
$91,169,475
$91,169,475
$111,088,074
$104,797,586
$99,217,314
$98,692,314
$98,403,395
Weighted Avg. Value/Unit
$838,969
$828,813
$828,813
$822,875
$818,731
$826,811
$822,436
$820,028
126 of 134

--- page 127 ---
DRAFT
Table A-5
Feasibility Impacts of Alternative Affordable Housing Requireme
City of San Mateo Below Market Housing Policy Analysis, EPS #18
Economic & Planning Systems, Inc.   1/15/2020
P:\21000s\21076SanMateoNexus\Model\181100_Model_011420
[1] Applies inclusionary requirement to the base number of units in project before density bonus. 
Sources: City of San Mateo; Economic & Planning Systems, Inc.
nts - Ownership Townhomes
1100
Current Ordinance
Staff 
Recommendation
Additional Scenarios
Item [1]
10% Inclusionary
15% Inclusionary
15% Inclusionary
15% Inclusionary
15% Inclusionary
15% Inclusionary
15% Inclusionary
20% Inclusionary
5% VLI (50% AMI)
10% LOW (70% AMI)
Same as Current 15%
11% VLI (50% AMI)
10% LOW (70% AMI)
5% LOW (70% AMI)
5% MOD (110% AMI)
Base Density (DU/Acre)
22
22
50
22
22
22
22
22
Eligible Percent Density Bonus [2]
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Density (DU/Acre) after Density Bonus
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
Base Units (for Inclusionary Req.)
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
Units in Project after Density Bonus
Units by Price Point
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
Market Rate Units
90
85
85
85
85
85
85
80
Value/Market Rate Unit
$1,242,209
$1,242,209
$1,242,209
$1,242,209
$1,242,209
$1,242,209
$1,242,209
$1,242,209
Aggregate Market Rate Unit Value
$111,798,846
$105,587,799
$105,587,799
$105,587,799
$105,587,799
$105,587,799
$105,587,799
$99,376,752
AMod Income Units (135% of AMI)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
Value/Moderate Income Unit
$726,000
$726,000
$726,000
$726,000
$726,000
$726,000
$726,000
$726,000
Aggregate Moderate Income Unit Value
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$3,630,000
Moderate Income Units (110% of AMI)
0
0
0
4
4
0
5
5
Value/Moderate Income Unit
$670,000
$670,000
$597,000
$670,000
$670,000
$670,000
$670,000
$670,000
Aggregate Moderate Income Unit Value
$0
$0
$0
$2,680,000
$2,680,000
$0
$3,350,000
$3,350,000
Moderate Income Units (100% of AMI)
0
15
15
0
0
0
0
0
Value/Moderate Income Unit
$449,000
$449,000
$449,000
$449,000
$449,000
$449,000
$449,000
$449,000
Aggregate Moderate Income Unit Value
$0
$6,735,000
$6,735,000
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
Low Income Units (80% of AMI)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Value/Moderate Income Unit
$330,000
$330,000
$330,000
$330,000
$330,000
$330,000
$330,000
$330,000
Aggregate Moderate Income Unit Value
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
Low Income Units (70% of AMI)
10
0
0
0
0
4
5
10
Value/Moderate Income Unit
$291,000
$291,000
$291,000
$291,000
$291,000
$291,000
$291,000
$291,000
Aggregate Moderate Income Unit Value
$2,910,000
$0
$0
$0
$0
$1,164,000
$1,455,000
$2,910,000
Low Income Units (60% of AMI)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Value/Low Income Unit
$236,000
$236,000
$236,000
$236,000
$236,000
$236,000
$236,000
$236,000
Aggregate Low Income Unit Value
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
VLI Units (50% of AMI)
0
0
0
11
0
11
5
0
Value/VLI Unit
$186,000
$186,000
$186,000
$186,000
$186,000
$186,000
$186,000
$186,000
127 of 134

--- page 128 ---
DRAFT
Table A-6
Feasibility Impacts of Alternative Affordable Housing Requireme
City of San Mateo Below Market Housing Policy Analysis, EPS #18
Economic & Planning Systems, Inc.   1/15/2020
P:\21000s\21076SanMateoNexus\Model\181100_Model_011420
LOW (70% AMI) MOD (100% A
Aggregate VLI Unit Value
$0
$0
$0
$2,046,000
$0
$2,046,000
$930,000
$0
ELI Units (30% of AMI)
0
0
0
0
11
0
0
0
Value/VLI Unit
$111,000
$111,000
$111,000
$111,000
$111,000
$111,000
$111,000
$111,000
Aggregate VLI Unit Value
$0
$0
$0
$0
$1,221,000
$0
$0
$0
Total Project Value
$114,708,846
$112,322,799
$112,322,799
$110,313,799
$109,488,799
$108,797,799
$111,322,799
$109,266,752
Weighted Avg. Value/Unit
$1,147,088
$1,123,228
$1,123,228
$1,103,138
$1,094,888
$1,087,978
$1,113,228
$1,092,668
Difference from Best Current Option
n/a
-2.1%
-2.1%
-3.8%
-4.6%
-5.2%
-3.0%
-4.7%
Difference from Staff Recommendation
2.1%
0.0%
n/a
-1.8%
-2.5%
-3.1%
-0.9%
-2.7%
[1] Applies inclusionary requirement to the base number of units in project before density bonus. 
[2] Assumes townhome projects do not apply for density bonus and are built at 22 DU/Acre.
Sources: City of San Mateo; Economic & Planning Systems, Inc.
128 of 134

--- page 129 ---
Summary/Notes
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Below-Market Rate Program 
Roundtable Meeting
Wednesday, October 9, 2019 – 3:00pm
City Hall, Conference Room C
33020th Ave, San Mateo, CA
Attendees: 
o
11 attendees consisting of citizens, realtor, housing developers, and housing advocacy 
groups
o
Sandy Council, Housing Manager
o
 Darin Smith from Economic & Planning Systems (consultant), 
o
 Debbie Schechter from Peninsula Conflict Resolution Center (facilitator)
o
Housing and Planning staff members
Presentations:
-
Sandy Council, Housing Manager and Darin Smith gave presentations on the purpose for the 
meeting, history of the below-market rate program in San Mateo, explanation of economic 
assumptions in looking at different affordability requirements, and a dive into the potential changes 
to developer incentives the City could make under the State/Local regulations that are in place at 
this time .
Comments:
-
Economic Analysis
o
There was some discussion on how realistic the assumed land price of $8,000,000 per acre 
was, particularly as it relates to the difference in cost for sites that are suitable for rental vs. 
for sale developments
o
There was also some discussion on the assumed soft costs on for sale developments being 
too low
o
Price per square foot was questioned as a metric due to the many different variables 
involved from number of bedrooms to bedroom size and even parking requirements
o
Some developers in attendance felt that a deeper look into Darin’s report would reveal 
more to discuss on assumptions that were used 
-
 Developer incentives:
o
The theme of flexibility came through from many in attendance as the incentives were 
discussed, particularly the development community
o
There was some interest in the City’s current alternative of providing fewer BMR units if 
they include  3 BR units which is available as part of the 15% requirement. (Since no 
developer has selected the 15% option, this has not yet been utilized).
129 of 134

--- page 130 ---
o
Several commented that a major increase in BMR requirements could have a chilling effect 
on housing development
▪
Mountain View’s townhome requirements (25%) were discussed as being too 
restrictive for developers
▪
Redwood City and Portland, OR 20% requirements were also brought up as an 
example of this
▪
Could an increase be phased over time, so developers can adjust?
▪
Could the requirements be examined periodically to adjust to market conditions?
o
Many of the incentives seemed to be discussed through the lens of trying to find more 
affordable units at different levels
▪
This is because the market has only yielded certain levels since the program began
▪
Developers are open to providing mixed income units as long as City retains strong 
management of waitlist to fill the units.
o
Allowing offsite construction or land dedication can leverage development of units with 
deeper affordability by taking advantage of economies of scale.  Some developers like the 
idea of partnering with a nonprofit to do this as a way to comply with inclusionary 
requirements. This is not currently allowed under Measure P.
o
Re-structuring the program to allow for an in-lieu fee on ownership projects was discussed 
as an option which is not currently allowed under Measure P.
o
One way to provide more affordable units could be to coordinate the below-market rate 
program with the public benefit requirement on sites that allow higher (75’) buildings and 
density (75 DU/A) per the City’s general plan.  
130 of 134

--- page 131 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 20-2461
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
February 3, 2020 
SUBJECT:
City-Wide Special Events – Task Force Creation 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the creation of the Special Events Task Force, the proposed composition, the process for appointment of 
members, and determine which Council Members will serve on the task force.  
BACKGROUND:
At the November 4, 2019 Study Session, Council requested staff propose the formation of a Special Events Task Force to 
analyze the community events that occur in the City as well as the process for reviewing and approving them. Additionally, 
the task force would identify possible additional events for consideration that could meet the needs and interests of our 
diverse population, taking into consideration location within the City, age groups served, and cultural diversity. 
City Council directed staff to research similar committees or task forces in the surrounding cities and to bring back a 
recommendation for the composition of the task force. After contacting several cities in the region, staff was unsuccessful 
in identifying a city with a similar task force or committee. In general, what staff heard repeatedly from several cities was 
that each city department creates and runs its own events and evaluates them internally within the department. 
 
Based on Council’s direction to include a broad set of stakeholders to ensure community diversity is taken into 
consideration, staff proposes the task force be comprised of the following members:
•
2 City Council Members
•
1 Representative  –  Senior Citizens Commission
•
1 Representative  –  Youth Activities Council
•
1 Representative  –  Park and Recreation Commission
•
1 Representative  –  Downtown San Mateo Association (DSMA)
•
1 Representative  –  San Mateo Chamber of Commerce (SMCC)
•
1 Representative  –  San Mateo United Homeowners Association (SMUHA)
If the City Council supports the proposed composition of the task force, the Council will need to nominate representatives 
to fill each of the available slots. Staff recommends that the City Council appoint its two members to the task force and 
then allow those members to appoint the remaining seats within the guidelines of the approved composition. The 
composition of the proposed task force will necessitate the members be subject to Brown Act requirements.
The task force would meet for a limited duration until it completes its proposed recommendations. The task force can 
determine the frequency and the duration of each meeting. At the end of the process, the task force would provide a list 
of recommendations and actions for Council consideration. 
131 of 134

--- page 132 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for this agenda item.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Jennifer Chen, Economic Development Manager
jchen@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7009
132 of 134

--- page 133 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. __ (2020)
SETTING COMPENSATION FOR CITY ATTORNEY
WHEREAS, on January 7, 2020, the City Council considered the performance of the City Attorney; and
WHEREAS, the performance of the City Attorney meets or exceeds all expectations; and
WHEREAS, San Mateo City Charter section 4.02 provides that salaries shall be fixed by resolution;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
The monthly salary for the City Attorney is established to be $_________, which reflects a
 ____% increase.
2.
The effective date for the monthly salary of the City Attorney, established in item 1 above, shall be 
upon the beginning of the next pay period following the adoption of this Resolution.
133 of 134

--- page 134 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. __ (2020)
SETTING COMPENSATION FOR CITY MANAGER
WHEREAS, on January 7, 2020, the City Council considered the performance of the City Manager; and
WHEREAS, the performance of the City Manager meets or exceeds all expectations; and
WHEREAS, San Mateo City Charter section 4.02 provides that salaries shall be fixed by resolution;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
The monthly salary for the City Manager is established to be $_________ which reflects a 
______% increase.
2.
The effective date for the monthly salary of the City Manager, established in item 1 above, shall be 
upon the beginning of the next pay period following the adoption of this Resolution.
134 of 134