Mayor pauses more surveillance cameras and pushes for more housing for the homeless - Washington Retail Association About Our Commitment Meet our Team Our Board Members Diversity Statement News Advocacy Legislative & Regulatory Priorities District Map Political Action Committees Retail PAC Endorsements Initiatives Public Safety and Retail Theft Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion (JEDI) Principles Retail Workforce Initiative Retail Industry Coalition of Seattle Careers in Retail Month Membership Contact Retro Join Us Inside Washington Retail Mayor pauses more surveillance cameras and pushes for more housing for the homeless March 26, 2026 Seattle Mayor Katie Wilson moved ahead on a couple of policies that impact retailers operating in the city. During the campaign, Mayor Wilson expressed concern about Mayor Harrell’s planned expansion of surveillance cameras, reflecting the fears of some that the information collected could end up in the hands of ICE and other federal agencies. Indeed, in July 2024, the city’s surveillance working group urged the city to not install police surveillance cameras. The Mayor chose to keep operating existing surveillance cameras and install – but not turn on – 26 new cameras in the area south of downtown. The Mayor said they could be activated if a “credible threat” arises that justifies their use, like an attack during the FIFA World Cup. The City will also contract with researchers at New York University’s Policing Project to conduct a “privacy and data governance audit” to determine whether to expand the use of surveillance cameras. The researchers expect to complete the audit after a few months. “I think that if, the audit comes back and says everything’s totally secure, we’re not at all worried about this data getting into the hands of federal government I think likely my decision at that point would be to move forward with the expansion of the pilot,” Wilson explained. She added that the question of whether “we want to live in a society where there’s cameras on every corner” is legitimate. Finally, the Mayor ordered the Seattle Police Department (“SPD”) to switch off its Automated License Plate Reader (“ALPR”) systems installed on 400 patrol cars and 6 parking enforcement vehicles. A new state law prohibits the use of ALPR systems around schools, courthouses, and other locations. The SPD will study whether it can geofence the technology around prohibited locations. And, in a first step on her commitment to begin addressing homelessness , Mayor Wilson sent three pieces of legislation to the City Council. One bill would provide $5 million to build new tiny house villages. Another would authorize the City to lease and prepare land for future shelters. The third bill could trigger more scrutiny. It would expand the size of tiny house villages from the current limit of 100 people to 250 residents. The Mayor has set the goal of creating 500 new shelter beds before the World Cup arrives in June and another 500 before the end of the year. She has also set a 4-year goal of creating 4,000 new beds for the homeless. Return to newsletter Share the Post: Prev Previous Work Opportunity tax credit supports hiring and workforce access Next Join the April 28 Tri-City Advocacy Roundtable to strengthen grassroots engagement Next Related Posts WR remembers Senator Sam Hunt’s legacy of public service April 30, 2026 ICSC Fly-In spotlights Washington’s retail impact April 30, 2026 WR is a non-profit trade association that provides political strength to bring about change. Partner with an association that understands not only your industry, but your unique individual business requirements in Washington State. Become a Member The Group Retrospective Rating Program (RETRO) is a safety incentive program. The program was developed to encourage safety in the workplace and drive down the costs of doing business in Washington State. Learn More About Retro » Stay in the Loop Sign up for the Inside Washington Retail newsletter Sign Up Today By signing up, you agree to our terms to protecting your retail interests. 360.943.9198 [email protected] 618 Quince St SE PO Box 2227, Olympia, WA 98501 About Us Meet Our Team Our Commitment Diversity Statement News Latest News Videos Retail Facts & Figures Advocacy Our Efforts District Map / Legislators Political Action Committees Retail Action Council Endorsements Services initiatives Priority Initiatives Public Safety and Retail Theft Resources-ORIGINAL Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion (JEDI) Principles Retail Industry Coalition of Seattle NRF Foundation RISE Up program We Card Membership Retail Services Business Resources Sponsorship Get In Touch Connect with Us Member Login Board Login Terms Privacy About Our Commitment Meet our Team Our Board Members Diversity Statement News Advocacy Legislative & Regulatory Priorities District Map Political Action Committees Retail PAC Endorsements Initiatives Public Safety and Retail Theft Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion (JEDI) Principles Retail Workforce Initiative Retail Industry Coalition of Seattle Careers in Retail Month Membership Contact Retro Join Us