source: packet.pdf
sha256: ca66f7dca6e793dfd0ca10563716283420e9ee498f50c028b81caa546cab8c26
pages: 162
ocr_pages: 35
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
May 5, 2025
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Robert Newsom Jr.
Adam Loraine
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: May 5, 2025
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 876 5417 6990      Passcode: 523081
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Consideration for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CEREMONIAL
1.
Aragon High School – 4.0 Grade Recognition 
2.
Asian American Pacific – Islander Heritage Month – Proclamation
3.
Jewish American Heritage Month – Proclamation
4.
National Police Week – Proclamation
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
5.
Citywide Operations Management System – Master Services Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and approve a Master Services Agreement
(MSA) with OpenGov for a three-year renewal of software subscription, cloud hosting, and technical support in
the amount of $403,057.37; and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form
presented.
1 of 162

--- page 2 ---
CEQA: Approval of a Master Services Agreement for the continued use of Cartegraph OMS is exempt from CEQA,
because it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that operations management systems software
may have a significant effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).)
6.
2655, 2755 Campus Drive Public Improvements – Adoption
Adopt a Resolution to accept public improvements in accordance with the April 27th, 2023, Subdivision
Improvement Agreement between the City of San Mateo and 2655 Campus Pop Owner, LLC and 2755 Campus
Pop Owner, LLC for 2655 and 2755 Campus Drive.
CEQA: This is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
7.
Downtown Business Improvement Area – Approval
Adopt a Resolution of Intent to Levy the Annual Assessments for the Downtown Business Improvement Area for
fiscal year 2025-26; accept the fiscal year 2024-25 Downtown San Mateo Association Annual Report; and set a
public hearing for the May 19, 2025, City Council meeting for the annual levy.
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
8.
Side Letter of Agreement - Police Technical Services Administrator Classification Representation – Adoption
Adopt a Resolution to reflect the change in representation of the Police Technical Services Administrator (PTSA)
from the San Mateo Management Employees’ Association (SMMEA) to the San Mateo Safety Management
Association (SMSMA).
CEQA: This Side Letter of Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant
physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
9.
Minimum Wage Enforcement – Agreement
Approve an agreement with the County of San Mateo’s Office of Labor Standards Enforcement (OLSE) to provide
minimum wage enforcement services for the City’s minimum wage ordinance, in an amount not to exceed
$60,000, and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
10.
Electric Vehicle Fleet Program Terms and Conditions – Approval
Approve the PG&E Program Electric Vehicle Fleet Program Terms and Conditions and authorize the City Manager
to execute the documents in substantially the form presented and to negotiate an easement agreement for the
deployment of PG&E facilities to serve electric vehicle infrastructure, including relocation as needed, for future
Council approval.
CEQA: Approval of the PG&E Program Electric Vehicle Fleet Program Terms and Conditions is exempt from CEQA
review as an “existing facility,” because it relates to a project consisting of the operation, repair, maintenance,
permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical
equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15301)
2 of 162

--- page 3 ---
11.
385 2nd Avenue Lease Agreement Renewal – Reauthorization
Re-approve a lease renewal extending the term to March 31, 2026 with a one-year option for the property
located at 385 2nd Avenue in the Main Street Garage with Elmer Vasquez and Anavela Vasquez with an initial
base rent of $1,374.00 per month; and authorize the City Manager to execute the lease renewal in substantially
the form presented.
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
12.
Letter of Opposition to the Current U.S. 101/SR 92 Interchange Direct Connector Project Proposal – Approval
Authorize the Mayor to send a letter on behalf of the City Council to the San Mateo County Transportation
Authority (SMCTA), the City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County (C/CAG), the California
Department of Transportation (Caltrans), Assemblymember Diane Papan, and State Senator Josh Becker,
expressing the City of San Mateo’s opposition to the current U.S. 101/SR 92 Interchange Direct Connector Project
proposal. Authorize the Mayor to transmit a letter to the Mayor of the City of Foster City requesting
consideration for co-signing the opposition letter.
CEQA: This opposition letter is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
NEW BUSINESS
13.
Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor Bike Lane Improvements – Update
Receive an update and provide feedback on the Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor Bike Lane
Improvements project.
CEQA: This update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
14.
City Council Priority List – Adoption
Adopt the City Council Priority List for fiscal year 2025-26.
CEQA: This information update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
3 of 162

--- page 4 ---
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
4 of 162

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4675
File ID: 25-9803
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Information Technology Department
MEETING DATE:
May 05, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Citywide Operations Management System – Master Services Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and approve a Master Services Agreement (MSA) with 
OpenGov for a three-year renewal of software subscription, cloud hosting, and technical support in the amount of 
$403,057.37; and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
In May 2016, the City purchased the Cartegraph Operations Management System (Cartegraph OMS) and contracted with 
Cartegraph Systems, LLC (Cartegraph) to implement and host the system. Cartegraph has since been acquired by OpenGov, 
Inc. (OpenGov). The selection was made by a multi-departmental committee that included staff from Public Works, IT, 
Parks and Recreation, Police, City Clerk’s Office, and the City Manager’s Office. This committee unanimously agreed that 
Cartegraph OMS would best serve the City’s operational field work needs. Staff have since moved all work order 
management for streets and traffic, the sewer collection system, parks and recreation, and facilities to Cartegraph OMS, 
and continue to use the system for these operational needs. 
On May 6, 2019, Council approved a renewal agreement to extend use of Cartegraph OMS for three years. The council 
again approved a three-year renewal of Cartegraph OMS on April 4, 2022, which is now expiring. Based on the continued 
success of Cartegraph OMS and the continued need to serve City operations management functions, staff recommends 
another three-year renewal of Cartegraph OMS. The three-year renewal includes $127,853.25 for year one, $134,245.91 
for year two, and $140,958.21 for year three, for a contract total of $403,057.37. 
San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the use of an alternative purchasing procedure without 
competitive bidding when the City Council makes a finding concurrent with the award that the alternative procedure is in 
the best interest of the City. Here, the award of an agreement with OpenGov for the continued use of Cartegraph OMS is 
in the City’s best interest because Cartegraph OMS has been fully integrated into various City operations, continues to 
function successfully, and implementing another OMS would result in disruptions to the City’s current work order 
management needs.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The costs for this agreement will be shared between the Information Technology and Public Works departments with 25 
percent of the total cost funded through Information Technology’s annual operating budget in the General Fund. The 
remaining 75 percent will be funded by Public Works’s operating budgets of the Sewer (50 percent), Solid Waste (25 
percent), and Stormwater (25 percent) funds. Public Works’s share of the costs for the first year of the agreement, 
estimated to be $95,890.00, will be absorbed within the department’s operating budget. Funding for subsequent years of 
the agreement will be included in each department’s operating budget. For the three-year agreement term, IT’s share 
5 of 162

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
funded by the General Fund totals $100,764.34 and Public Works’s share funded by the Sewer, Solid Waste, and 
Stormwater funds totals $302,293.03.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Approval of a Master Services Agreement for the continued use of Cartegraph OMS is exempt from CEQA, because it can 
be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that operations management systems software may have a significant 
effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Master Services Agreement
Att 3 – Order Form
STAFF CONTACT
Pete Owen, Director, Information Technology
powen@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7074
Jamie Perez, Senior Management Analyst
jperez@cityofsanmateo.org
6505227242
6 of 162

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. _____ (2025)
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR A THREE-YEAR MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT 
WITH OPENGOV, INC. FOR SOFTWARE SUBSCRIPTION, CLOUD HOSTING, AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT 
($403,057.37)
WHEREAS, the City purchased the Cartegraph Operations Management System (Cartegraph OMS) from 
Cartegraph Systems, LLC (now OpenGov, Inc.) in May 2016 in order to meet the City’s need to support 
operational field work; and
WHEREAS, Cartegraph OMS was successfully implemented, replacing two obsolete systems; and
WHEREAS, Cartegraph OMS was renewed for three years on May 6, 2019, was renewed again for three 
years on April 4, 2022, and continues to serve its purpose in support of the City’s operational field work as 
intended; and
WHEREAS, the 2022 renewal is expiring, and staff have determined another renewal will best serve the 
City’s operational field work needs going forward; and
WHEREAS, Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3) provides that the City may use purchasing procedures 
approved by the City Council if the City Council makes a finding concurrent with the award that the procedures 
are in the best interest of the City for the particular agreement; and
WHEREAS, a three-year Master Services Agreement with OpenGov, Inc. for the Cartegraph OMS is in the 
best interests of the City because the system has been fully implemented and has been operating successfully 
since its implementation.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, FINDS and RESOLVES 
that:
1.
Approval of a Master Services Agreement for the continued use of Cartegraph OMS is exempt from 
CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that an operations management 
systems software may have a significant effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15061(b)(3).)
2.
Pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3), approval of a Master Services Agreement 
with OpenGov for the continued use of Cartegraph OMS is in the best interest of the City because:
a.
The initial award of an agreement with Cartegraph Systems, LLC (now OpenGov) was approved 
by the City Council in May 2016 after a recommendation from a City multi-departmental 
committee which evaluated proposals from various vendors;
b.
Cartegraph OMS was selected as the program which would best serve the City’s needs;
c.
Cartegraph OMS was thereafter fully integrated into various City operations and has been 
operating successfully since its go-live in April 2017; and
d.
A review of vendors and implementation of an alternative operation management system would 
disrupt current City operations.
7 of 162

--- page 8 ---
3.
The three-year Master Services Agreement with OpenGov for Cartegraph OMS in the amount of 
$403,057.37 is approved.
4.
The City Manager is authorized to execute the agreement with OpenGov, Inc. on behalf of the City in 
substantially the form presented.
8 of 162

--- page 9 ---
1 
OpenGov Master Services Agreement 
 Revised April 25, 2025 
OpenGov Master Services Agreement 
 
The parties to this Master Services Agreement (this “Agreement”) are OpenGov, Inc., a Delaware 
corporation (“OpenGov”), and the customer named in the signature block below (“Customer”). This 
Agreement, which becomes binding when the parties have signed it (the “Effective Date”), sets 
forth the terms under which Customer will be permitted to use OpenGov’s hosted software 
services and receive professional services. 
 
1. 
Definitions  
1.1. 
“Customer Data” means data that is provided by Customer to OpenGov pursuant to this 
Agreement (for example, by email or through Customer’s software systems of record). 
Customer Data does not include any confidential personally identifiable information.  
1.2. 
“Documentation” means materials produced by OpenGov that provide information about 
OpenGov’s software products and systems.  
1.3. 
“Intellectual Property Rights” means all intellectual property rights including all past, 
present, and future rights associated with works of authorship, including exclusive 
exploitation rights, copyrights, and moral rights, trademark and trade name rights and 
similar rights, trade secret rights, patent rights, and any other proprietary rights in 
intellectual property of every kind and nature.  
1.4. 
“Order Form” means the document(s) separately executed by the parties or attached as 
an Exhibit, that specifies the Software Services that OpenGov will provide to Customer 
under this Agreement.  
1.5. 
“Term” refers to the Initial Term defined in Section 6.1 plus all Renewal Terms defined in 
Section 6.2. 
2. 
Software Services, Support, and Professional Services 
2.1. 
Software Services. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, OpenGov will 
use commercially reasonable efforts to provide the commercial-off-the-shelf software 
solutions identified in the applicable Order Form (“Software Services”). Software 
Services do not include any pre-release features, functionality, and/or software that 
Customer elects to use while they are in beta. 
2.2. 
Support and Service Levels. Customer support is available by email to 
support@opengov.com or by using the chat messaging functionality of the Software 
Services, both of which are available during OpenGov’s standard business hours. 
Customer may report issues any time; however, OpenGov will address issues during 
business hours. OpenGov will provide support for the Software Services in accordance 
with the Support and Software Service Levels found at opengov.com/service-sla, as 
long as Customer is entitled to receive support under the applicable Order Form and this 
Agreement.  
9 of 162

--- page 10 ---
2 
OpenGov Master Services Agreement 
 Revised April 25, 2025 
2.3. 
Professional Services 
2.3.1. 
If OpenGov or its authorized independent contractors provides professional services 
to Customer, such as implementation services, then these professional services 
(“Professional Services”) will be described in an applicable statement of work (“SOW”) 
agreed to by the parties, which is incorporated by reference. Unless otherwise 
specified in the SOW, any pre-paid Professional Services must be utilized within one 
year from the Effective Date.  
2.3.2. 
Relevant travel expenses are provided in the SOW. Any other travel expenses related 
to the performance of the Professional Services shall be pre-approved by and 
reimbursed by Customer. 
3. 
Restrictions and Responsibilities 
3.1. 
Restrictions. Customer may not use the Software Services in any manner or for any 
purpose other than as expressly permitted by the Agreement. In addition, Customer 
shall not, and shall not permit or enable any third party to: (a) use or access any of the 
Software Services to build a competitive product or service; (b) modify, disassemble, 
decompile, reverse engineer or otherwise make any derivative use of the Software 
Services (except to the extent applicable laws specifically prohibit such restriction); (c) 
sell, license, rent, lease, assign, distribute, display, host, disclose, outsource, copy or 
otherwise commercially exploit the Software Services; (d) perform or disclose any 
benchmarking or performance testing of the Software Services, including but not 
limited to load testing, or stress testing; (e) remove any proprietary notices included 
with the Software Services; (f) use the Software Services in violation of applicable law; 
or (g) transfer any confidential personally identifiable information to OpenGov or the 
Software Services platform.  
3.2. 
Responsibilities. Customer shall be responsible for obtaining and maintaining 
computers and third-party software systems of record (such as Customer’s ERP 
systems) needed to connect to, access or otherwise use the Software Services. 
Customer also shall be responsible for: (a) ensuring that such equipment is compatible 
with the Software Services, (b) maintaining the security of such equipment, user 
accounts, passwords and files, and (c) all uses of Customer user accounts by any party 
other than OpenGov. 
 
4. 
Intellectual Property Rights; License Grants; Access to Customer Data  
4.1. 
Software Services. OpenGov owns all interests and Intellectual Property Rights in the 
Software Services. The look and feel of the Software Services, including any custom 
fonts, graphics and button icons, are the property of OpenGov. Customer may not copy, 
imitate, or use them, in whole or in part, without OpenGov’s prior written consent. 
Subject to Customer’s obligations under this Agreement, OpenGov grants Customer a 
non-exclusive, royalty-free license during the Term to use the Software Services.  
4.2. 
Customer Data. Customer Data and the Intellectual Property Rights therein belong to 
Customer. Customer grants OpenGov and its partners (such as hosting providers) a non-
10 of 162

--- page 11 ---
3 
OpenGov Master Services Agreement 
 Revised April 25, 2025 
exclusive, royalty-free license to use, store, edit, and reformat Customer Data for the 
purpose of providing the Software Services. Customer further agrees that OpenGov and 
its partners may use aggregated, anonymized Customer Data for purposes of product 
enhancement, customer service, and data analysis. Insights gleaned from aggregated, 
anonymized Customer Data will belong to OpenGov.  
4.3. 
Access to Customer Data. Customer may download Customer Data from the Software 
Services at any time during the Term, excluding during routine software maintenance 
periods.  
4.4. 
Deletion of Customer Data. Unless otherwise requested pursuant to this Section 4.4, 
upon the termination of this Agreement, Customer Data shall be deleted pursuant to 
OpenGov’s standard data deletion and retention practices, which is to delete Customer 
Data 45 days after termination or expiration of the Agreement. Upon written request, 
Customer may request deletion of Customer Data prior to the date of termination of this 
Agreement. Such a request must be addressed to “OpenGov Vice President, Customer 
Success” at OpenGov’s address for notice in Section 10.2.  
4.5. 
Feedback. “Feedback” means suggestions, comments, improvements, ideas, or other 
feedback or materials regarding the Software Services provided by Customer to 
OpenGov, including feedback provided through online developer community forums. 
Customer grants OpenGov a non-exclusive, royalty-free, irrevocable, perpetual, 
worldwide license to use and incorporate Feedback into the Software Services and 
Documentation. OpenGov will exclusively own any improvements or modifications to the 
Software Services and Documentation based on or derived from any of Customer’s 
Feedback including all Intellectual Property Rights in and to the improvements and 
modifications. 
5. 
Confidentiality 
5.1. 
“Confidential Information" means all confidential business, technical, and financial 
information of the disclosing party that is marked as “Confidential” or an equivalent 
designation or that should reasonably be understood to be confidential given the nature 
of the information and/or the circumstances surrounding the disclosure. OpenGov’s 
Confidential Information includes, without limitation, the software underlying the 
Software Services, and all Documentation.  
5.2. 
Confidential Information does not include: (a) data that Customer has previously 
released to the public; (b) data that Customer would be required to release to the public 
upon request under applicable federal, state, or local public records laws; (c) Customer 
Data that Customer requests OpenGov make available to the public in conjunction with 
the Software Services; (d) information that becomes publicly known through no breach 
by either party; (e) information that was rightfully received by a party from a third party 
without restriction on use or disclosure; or (f) information independently developed by 
the Receiving Party without access to the Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information.  
5.3. 
Each party agrees to obtain prior written consent before disclosing any of the other 
11 of 162

--- page 12 ---
4 
OpenGov Master Services Agreement 
 Revised April 25, 2025 
party's Confidential Information. Each party further agrees to use the other's 
Confidential Information only in connection with this Agreement. Each party further 
agrees to protect the other party's Confidential Information using the measures that it 
employs with respect to its own Confidential Information of a similar nature, but in no 
event with less than reasonable care. If a party is required to disclose Confidential 
Information by law or court order, they must notify the other party in writing before 
making the disclosure to give the other party an opportunity to oppose or limit the 
disclosure. 
6. 
Term and Termination 
6.1. 
Initial Term. This Agreement begins on the Effective Date and ends on the date the 
subscription ends (“Initial Term”), according to the Order Form, unless sooner 
terminated pursuant to Section 6.3. 
6.2. 
Renewal. This Agreement shall automatically renew for another period of the same 
duration as the Initial Term (each one is a new “Renewal Term”) unless either party 
notifies the other party of its intent not to renew this Agreement in writing no less than 
30 days before the end of the then-current term.  
6.3. 
Termination for Cause. If either party materially breaches any term of this Agreement 
and fails to cure such breach within 30 days after receiving written notice by the non-
breaching party, the non-breaching party may terminate this Agreement.  
6.4. 
Termination for Non-Appropriation. For any term after the first full year of this 
Agreement, Customer may terminate this Agreement if it does not appropriate funds to 
continue this Agreement in a future fiscal year by providing notice in writing no less than 
30 days before the end of the then-current term. Such termination shall be effective 
upon the expiration of the then-current term. To invoke termination under this section, 
Customer must use good faith efforts to secure the appropriate funds for the next year’s 
fees.  
6.5. 
Effect of Termination. Upon termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 6: (a) 
Customer shall pay in full for all Software Services and Professional Services for the 
then-current annual term, (b) OpenGov shall stop providing Software Services and 
Professional Services to Customer; and (c) each party shall (at the other party’s option) 
return or delete any of the other party’s Confidential Information in its possession.  
7. 
Payment of Fees 
7.1. 
Fees; Invoicing; Payment; Expenses.  
7.1.1. 
Fees. Fees for Software Services and for Professional Services are set forth in the 
applicable Order Form, and OpenGov will invoice Customer accordingly. Customer 
agrees to pay invoices within 30 days. Invoices are deemed received when OpenGov 
emails them to Customer’s designated billing contact. Obligations to pay fees are 
non-cancelable, and payments are non-refundable.  
7.1.2. 
Annual Software Price Adjustment. OpenGov shall increase the fees for the Software 
Services during any Renewal Term by 5% each year or as otherwise agreed upon in 
12 of 162

--- page 13 ---
5 
OpenGov Master Services Agreement 
 Revised April 25, 2025 
the applicable renewal Order Form. 
7.1.3. 
Travel Expenses. OpenGov will invoice Customer for travel expenses provided in the 
SOW or Order Form as they are incurred. Customer shall pay all such valid invoices 
within 30 days of receipt of invoice. Receipts shall be provided for the travel 
expenses listed on the invoice. 
7.2. 
Consequences of Non-Payment. If Customer fails to make any payments required 
under any Order Form or SOW, then in addition to any other rights OpenGov may have 
under this Agreement or applicable law, (a) Customer will owe a late interest penalty of 
the maximum rate permitted by law and (b) If Customer’s account remains delinquent 
(with respect to payment of an undisputed invoice) for 10 days after receipt of a 
delinquency notice from OpenGov, which may be provided via email to Customer’s 
designated billing contact, OpenGov may temporarily suspend Customer’s access to 
the Software Service for up to 90 days to pursue good faith negotiations before 
pursuing termination in accordance with Section 6.3. Customer will continue to incur 
and owe all applicable fees irrespective of any such service suspension based on such 
Customer’s delinquency. 
7.3. 
Taxes. All fees under this Agreement are exclusive of any applicable sales, value-added, 
use or other taxes (“Sales Taxes”). Customer is solely responsible for all Sales Taxes, not 
including taxes based solely on OpenGov’s net income. If any Sales Taxes related to the 
fees under this Agreement are found at any time to be payable, the amount may be billed 
by OpenGov to, and shall be paid by, Customer. If Customer fails to pay any Sales Taxes, 
then Customer will be liable for any related penalties or interest and will indemnify 
OpenGov for any liability or expense incurred in connection with such Sales Taxes. In the 
event Customer or the transactions contemplated by the Agreement are exempt from 
Sales Taxes, Customer agrees to provide OpenGov, as evidence of such tax-exempt 
status, proper exemption certificates or other documentation acceptable to OpenGov. 
8. 
Representations and Warranties; Disclaimer 
8.1. 
By OpenGov.  
8.1.1. 
General Warranty. OpenGov represents and warrants that it has all right and 
authority necessary to enter into and perform this Agreement. 
8.1.2. 
Professional Services Warranty. OpenGov further represents and warrants that the 
Professional Services, if any, will be performed in a professional and workmanlike 
manner in accordance with the related SOW and generally prevailing industry 
standards. For any breach of the Professional Services warranty, OpenGov will re-
perform the applicable services. If OpenGov is unable to re-perform such work as 
warranted, Customer will be entitled to recover all fees paid to OpenGov for the 
deficient work. Customer must give written notice of any claim under this warranty 
to OpenGov within 90 days of the completion of Professional Services pursuant to 
the applicable SOW to receive such warranty remedies. 
8.1.3. 
Software Services Warranty. OpenGov further represents and warrants that for the 
13 of 162

--- page 14 ---
6 
OpenGov Master Services Agreement 
 Revised April 25, 2025 
Term, the Software Services will perform in all material respects in accordance with 
the Documentation. The foregoing warranty does not apply to any Software Services 
that have been used in a manner other than as set forth in this Agreement. OpenGov 
does not warrant that the Software Services will be uninterrupted or error-free. 
Customer must give written notice of any claim under this warranty to OpenGov 
within 90 days of Customer discovering the defect. For any breach of the Software 
Services warranty, OpenGov will repair or replace any nonconforming Software 
Services so that the affected portion of the Software Services operates as 
warranted. If OpenGov is unable to do so, Customer may terminate the license for 
such Software Services and will be entitled to recover all fees paid to OpenGov for 
the deficient Software Services.  
8.2. 
By Customer. Customer represents and warrants that (a) it has all right and authority 
necessary to enter into and perform this Agreement; and (b) OpenGov’s use of Customer 
Data pursuant to this Agreement will not infringe, violate or misappropriate the 
Intellectual Property Rights of any third party.  
8.3. 
Disclaimer. OPENGOV DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE SOFTWARE SERVICES WILL BE 
UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR FREE; NOR DOES IT MAKE ANY WARRANTY AS TO THE 
RESULTS THAT MAY BE OBTAINED FROM USE OF THE SOFTWARE SERVICES. EXCEPT 
AS SET FORTH IN THIS SECTION 8, THE SOFTWARE SERVICES ARE PROVIDED “AS IS” 
AND OPENGOV DISCLAIMS ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, 
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
TITLE, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.  
9. 
Limitation of Liability 
9.1. 
By Type. NEITHER PARTY, NOR ITS SUPPLIERS, OFFICERS, AFFILIATES, 
REPRESENTATIVES, CONTRACTORS OR EMPLOYEES, SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE OR 
LIABLE WITH RESPECT TO ANY SUBJECT MATTER OF THIS AGREEMENT UNDER ANY 
CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY, OR OTHER THEORY: (A) FOR ERROR OR 
INTERRUPTION OF USE OR FOR LOSS OR INACCURACY OF DATA OR COST OF 
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES OR LOSS OF BUSINESS; (B) FOR 
ANY INDIRECT, EXEMPLARY, PUNITIVE, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
DAMAGES; OR (C) FOR ANY MATTER BEYOND A PARTY’S REASONABLE CONTROL, EVEN 
IF SUCH PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSS OR DAMAGE.  
9.2. 
By Amount. IN NO EVENT SHALL EITHER PARTY’S AGGREGATE, CUMULATIVE LIABILITY 
FOR ANY CLAIMS ARISING OUT OF OR IN ANY WAY RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT 
EXCEED THE FEES PAID BY CUSTOMER TO OPENGOV FOR THE SOFTWARE SERVICES 
UNDER THIS AGREEMENT IN THE 12 MONTHS PRIOR TO THE ACT THAT GAVE RISE TO 
THE LIABILITY. 
9.3. 
Limitation of Liability Exclusions. The limitations of liability set forth in Sections 9.1 and 
9.2 above do not apply to, and each party accepts liability to the other for: (a) claims 
based on either party’s intentional breach of its obligations set forth in Section 5 
(Confidentiality), (b) claims arising out of fraud or willful misconduct by either party and 
14 of 162

--- page 15 ---
7 
OpenGov Master Services Agreement 
 Revised April 25, 2025 
(c) either party’s infringement of the other party’s Intellectual Property Rights. 
9.4. 
No Limitation of Liability by Law. Because some jurisdictions do not allow liability or 
damages to be limited to the extent set forth above, some of the above limitations may 
not apply to Customer.  
10. 
Miscellaneous 
10.1. 
Logo Use. OpenGov shall have the right to use and display Customer’s logos and trade 
names for marketing and promotional purposes in OpenGov’s website and marketing 
materials, subject to Customer’s trademark usage guidelines provided to OpenGov.  
10.2. 
Notice. Ordinary day-to-day operational communications may be conducted by email, 
live chat or telephone. For notices required by the Agreement the parties must 
communicate more formally in a writing sent via USPS certified mail and via email. 
OpenGov’s addresses for notice are: legal@opengov.com with a mailed copy to 
OpenGov, Inc., 660 3rd Street, Suite 100, San Francisco, CA 94107. 
10.3. 
Anti-corruption. Neither OpenGov nor any of its employees or agents has offered or 
provided any illegal or improper payment, gift, or transfer of value in connection with 
this Agreement. The parties will promptly notify each other if they become aware of any 
violation of any applicable anti-corruption laws in connection with this Agreement. 
10.4. 
Injunctive Relief. The parties acknowledge that any breach of the confidentiality 
provisions or the unauthorized use of a party’s intellectual property may result in serious 
and irreparable injury to the aggrieved party for which damages may not adequately 
compensate the aggrieved party. The parties agree, therefore, that, in addition to any 
other remedy that the aggrieved party may have, it shall be entitled to seek equitable 
injunctive relief without being required to post a bond or other surety or to prove either 
actual damages or that damages would be an inadequate remedy. 
10.5. 
Force Majeure. Neither party shall be held responsible or liable for any losses arising out 
of any delay or failure in performance of any part of this Agreement, other than payment 
obligations, due to any act of god, act of governmental authority, or due to war, riot, 
labor difficulty, failure of performance by any third-party service, utilities, or equipment 
provider, or any other cause beyond the reasonable control of the party delayed or 
prevented from performing.  
10.6. 
Severability; Waiver. If any provision of this Agreement is found to be unenforceable or 
invalid, that provision will be limited or eliminated to the minimum extent necessary so 
that this Agreement will otherwise remain in full force and effect and enforceable. Any 
express waiver or failure to exercise promptly any right under this Agreement will not 
create a continuing waiver or any expectation of non-enforcement.  
10.7. 
Survival. The following sections of this Agreement shall survive termination: Section 5 
(Confidentiality), Section 7 (Payment of Fees), Section 4.4 (Deletion of Customer Data), 
Section 8.3 (Warranty Disclaimer), Section 9 (Limitation of Liability) and Section 10 
(Miscellaneous). 
10.8. 
Assignment. There are no third-party beneficiaries to this Agreement. Except as set 
15 of 162

--- page 16 ---
8 
OpenGov Master Services Agreement 
 Revised April 25, 2025 
forth in this Section 10.8, neither party may assign, delegate, or otherwise transfer this 
Agreement or any of its rights or obligations to a third party without the other party's 
written consent, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or 
delayed. Either party may assign, without such consent but upon written notice, its 
rights and obligations under this Agreement to its corporate affiliate or to any entity that 
acquires all or substantially all of its capital stock or its assets related to this 
Agreement, through purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise. Any other 
attempted assignment shall be void. This Agreement will benefit and bind permitted 
assigns and successors.  
10.9. 
Independent Contractors. This Agreement does not create an agency, partnership, joint 
venture, or employment relationship, and neither party has any authority to bind the 
other.  
10.10. 
Governing Law and Jurisdiction. This Agreement will be governed by the laws of 
Customer’s jurisdiction, without regard to conflict of laws principles. The parties submit 
to personal jurisdiction and venue in the courts of Customer’s jurisdiction. 
10.11. 
Complete Agreement. OpenGov has made no other promises or representations to 
Customer other than those contained in this Agreement. Any additional or different 
terms in a purchase order or click-through agreement are expressly rejected by the 
Parties and are void. Any modification to this Agreement must be in writing and signed 
by an authorized representative of each party. 
11. 
IP Indemnification 
11.1. 
IP Indemnification. OpenGov shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless Customer, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from any third-party claims, 
costs, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including attorneys' fees and costs) 
arising out of or in connection with any claim alleging that the Software Services 
infringes a copyright, patent (U.S. only), or trademark of, or has caused harm to the 
rights of, a third party. If the Software Services becomes, or in OpenGov’s opinion is 
likely to become, the subject of an infringement claim, OpenGov may, at its option and 
expense, either (a) procure for Customer the right to continue using the Software 
Services, (b) replace or modify the Software Services so that it becomes non-infringing, 
or (c) terminate the licenses granted hereunder and give Customer a pro-rata refund for 
any pre-paid, unused fees paid by Customer. OpenGov will have no obligation under this 
Agreement with respect to an infringement claim based upon any use of the Software 
Services not in accordance with this Agreement or for purposes not intended by 
OpenGov, use of the Software Services in combination with other products, software, or 
data not supplied by OpenGov, or modification of the Software Services by any person 
other than OpenGov or its authorized agents or subcontractors.  
11.2. 
Procedures. Customer shall (a) promptly give notice of a claim to OpenGov, (b) give 
OpenGov sole control of the defense and settlement of the claim, (c) provide to OpenGov 
all available information and reasonable assistance, and (d) not compromise or settle 
such third-party claim.  
16 of 162

--- page 17 ---
9 
OpenGov Master Services Agreement 
 Revised April 25, 2025 
11.3. 
Sole Remedy. The foregoing is OpenGov's sole obligation and Customer’s exclusive 
remedy with respect to indemnification. The indemnification obligations set forth in this 
Section are subject to the limitation of liability provisions of this Agreement. 
  
  
San Mateo, CA 
OpenGov, Inc. 
Signature 
___________________________ Signature 
__________________________ 
Name 
___________________________ Name 
__________________________ 
Title 
___________________________ Title 
__________________________ 
Date 
___________________________ Date 
__________________________ 
 
17 of 162

--- page 18 ---
OpenGov Inc.
660 3rd Street, Suite 100
San Francisco, CA 94107
United States
Q00CA5641
11/4/2024
Marguerite Kuntz
5/18/2025
renewals@opengov.com
5/19/2025
36 Months
5/18/2028
City of San Mateo, CA
Dave Hulten
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, California 94401
United States
dhulten@cityofsanmateo.org
Annually in Advance
Net Thirty (30) Days
Product / Service
Start Date
End Date
Annual Fee
OMS Plus, OMS User (103 Users), Integration Toolkit (option), Asset Builder
(option), Facilities Domain, Flood Protection Domain, Parks & Recreation
Domain, Sanitary Sewer Domain, Signal Domain, Stormwater Domain,
Transportation Domain, Walkability Domain, Water Distribution Domain
5/19/2025
5/18/2026
$127,853.25
OMS Plus, OMS User (103 Users), Integration Toolkit (option), Asset Builder
(option), Facilities Domain, Flood Protection Domain, Parks & Recreation
Domain, Sanitary Sewer Domain, Signal Domain, Stormwater Domain,
Transportation Domain, Walkability Domain, Water Distribution Domain
5/19/2026
5/18/2027
$134,245.91
OMS Plus, OMS User (103 Users), Integration Toolkit (option), Asset Builder
(option), Facilities Domain, Flood Protection Domain, Parks & Recreation
Domain, Sanitary Sewer Domain, Signal Domain, Stormwater Domain,
Transportation Domain, Walkability Domain, Water Distribution Domain
5/19/2027
5/17/2028
$140,958.21
See Service Terms
May 19, 2025
$127,853.25
May 19, 2026
$134,245.91
May 19, 2027
$140,958.21
Signature:
Signature:
Name:
Name:
Title:
Title:
Date:
Date:
This Order Form incorporates the OpenGov Master Services Agreement (""MSA"") attached here or available at https://opengov.com/terms-of-service/master-services-agreement/.
The ""Agreement"" between OpenGov and the entity identified above (""Customer"") consists of the Order Form, MSA, and, if Professional Services are purchased, the Statement of Work. Unless otherwise specified above, fees
for the Software Services and Professional Services shall be due and payable, in advance, 30 days from receipt of the invoice.
By signing this Agreement, Customer acknowledges that it has reviewed, and agrees to be legally bound by the Agreement. Each party’s acceptance of this Agreement is conditional upon the other’s acceptance of the Agreement
to the exclusion of all other terms.
Order Form Number:
Created On: 
Prepared By:
Order Form Expiration: 
Email: 
Subscription Start Date: 
Contract Term:
Subscription End Date: 
    Customer:
Contact Name:
    Bill To/Ship To:
Email:
    Billing Frequency:
    Payment Terms:
SOFTWARE SERVICES: 
Annual Subscription Total: 
Service Terms
Service Date:
Amount:
City of San Mateo, CA
OpenGov, Inc. 
    Customer Information
    Order Details
    Order Form Legal Terms
(Annual Software Fee)
(Annual Software Fee)
(Annual Software Fee)
18 of 162

--- page 19 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 26-4662
File ID: 25-9815
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
May 05, 2025 
SUBJECT:
2655, 2755 Campus Drive Public Improvements – Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to accept public improvements in accordance with the April 27th, 2023, Subdivision Improvement 
Agreement between the City of San Mateo and 2655 Campus Pop Owner, LLC and 2755 Campus Pop Owner, LLC for 2655 
and 2755 Campus Drive. 
BACKGROUND:
In February 2023, 2655 Campus Pop Owner, LLC and 2755 Campus Pop Owner, LLC (”Subdivider“) sought approval and 
recordation of Final Map Peninsula Heights - South, creating 44 single family residential lots and 6 parcels for a maximum 
of 112 residential condominium units, in connection with the property located at 2655 and 2755 Campus Drive (the 
Property). On February 6, 2023, the City Manager approved and authorized the Public Works Director to sign the 
Subdivision Improvement Agreement (”Agreement“) with the Subdivider for the Property. The Agreement was executed 
on April 27th, 2023. Final Map Peninsula Heights - South subdivided 44 single family residential lots and subdivided 6 
parcels for a maximum of 112 residential condominium units. The Agreement addressed the construction of the public 
improvements that were required as conditions of approval for the project and the tentative parcel map approved under 
PA 20-012. 
Prior to the commencement of construction, the Subdivider was required to provide the City surety bonds totaling 
$926,366.00 per Section 14 of the Agreement. After this, permits were issued for the construction of public improvements. 
On February 11, 2025, the Public Works Department signed off on the construction permits for the public improvements 
and verified that all planning application conditions of approval and public improvements have been satisfactorily 
completed. Upon the Subdivider’s satisfactory completion of the public improvements, the improvements require 
acceptance by City Council. Following the acceptance, Section 14 of the Agreement requires the Subdivider to warranty 
the work for one year. The maintenance bond on file with the City will remain in effect for one year after the date of 
acceptance by the City Council.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
The City will assume maintenance responsibilities for all public improvements. Ongoing costs for maintenance of the new 
improvements within the City right-of-way will be funded through the Public Works maintenance budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct 
or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) 
19 of 162

--- page 20 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Subdivision Improvement Agreement 
Att 3 – Final Map Peninsula Heights - South 
STAFF CONTACT
Selena Lau, Associate Engineer
slau@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7340
Jason Hallare, Senior Engineer
jhallare@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7316
20 of 162

--- page 21 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
ACCEPTING PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS FOR 2655 AND 2755 CAMPUS DRIVE
WHEREAS, on April 27th, 2023, the City Manager approved the Subdivision Improvement Agreement for 
2655 and 2755 Campus Drive and authorized the Public Works Director to sign the Agreement on February 6th, 
2023; and
WHEREAS, the Subdivision Improvement Agreement for 2655 and 2755 Campus Drive addressed various 
public improvements required as conditions of approval for the project and tentative parcel map approved 
under PA20-012; and
WHEREAS, the Public Works Department has verified that all planning application conditions of approval 
and subdivision improvements have been satisfactorily completed and Public Works staff recommends formal 
acceptance of those improvements.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
Accepting public improvements is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
2.
The City Council accepts the public improvements related to the Subdivision Improvement 
Agreement for 2655 and 2755 Campus Drive dated April 27, 2023 between the City of San Mateo 
and 2655 CAMPUS POP OWNER, LLC and 2755 CAMPUS POP OWNER, LLC.
21 of 162

--- page 22 ---
2023-031993

RECORDING REQUESTED BY AND :
3:11 pm 07/05/2023 AG Fee: NO FEE

WHEN RECORDED MAIL TO:

Count of Pages 15
. Recorded in Official Records
Government Code 6103: Exempt from Recording Fee Gourity of Sar Hate
Mark Church
City Clerk Assessor-County Clerk-Recorder
City of San Mateo | |
330 West 20" Avenue MO ANE A
San Mateo, CA 94403 *$RO003371703$%

SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into this one dayof Amie
2023, by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation of California ("City"), and
2755 CAMPUS POP OWNER, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and 2655 CAMPUS POP
OWNER, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (together, "Subdivider").

RECITALS

A. Subdivider is the owner of that certain tract of land, more particularly described in Exhibit A
attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference, located at the property commonly
known as 2655 and 2755 Campus Drive in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of
California (the “Property”).

B. Subdivider’s application for a vesting tentative map was approved by the San Mateo Planning
Commission on December 8, 2020, subject to various conditions.

t Subdivider has presented to City for approval a final subdivision map, dated December, 2022
("Map"), incorporated herein by reference.

D. Subdivider has requested approval of the Map prior to the completion of improvements.

E. The Map designates pedestrian access easements for the City, and Subdivider proposes to

dedicate such easements to the City.

F. As a condition precedent to accepting this offer of dedication by Subdivider, City requires
various off-site sidewalk improvements and off-site landscape improvements.

G. City desires that Subdivider post bonds to ensure the construction of offsite improvements that
are required under Subdivider’s Conditions of Approval, as more specifically described below.

H. City desires to assure that the improvements will be done in a good and workmanlike manner,
in accordance with the Conditions of Approval for the Vesting Tentative Tract Map approved by
the City on December 8, 2020, City, state and federal standards.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the approval of the Map, and in order to ensure

satisfactory performance by Subdivider of Subdivider's obligations under the tentative map conditions
of approval, the Subdivision Map Act, and the San Mateo Municipal Code, the parties agree as follows:

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 1 of 14
Rev. 7/21

22 of 162


--- page 23 ---
1. Performance of Work. Subdivider shall, at its own cost and expense, perform, in a good
and workmanlike manner, all of the work and improvements within and without the subdivision,
which are shown on the Map or on improvement plans, profiles, and specifications which have been
submitted to the City Engineer or may hereafter be so submitted, as finally approved, or which
improvements are required as conditions of approval of the subdivision by the City, or are required to
be done by any provision of law as a condition of said subdivision (“Required Improvements”). Said
Required Improvements include, but are not limited to, curbs, gutters, and sidewalks, grading, signs,
pavements, driveway approaches and pedestrian crosswalks, storm and sanitary sewers, underground
utilities, signal improvements, street lighting, roadway improvements, roadway markings,
landscaping, monuments, and all appurtenant improvements. Said plans and specifications are filed in
the Office of the City Engineer, as issued through permit EP-2022-001245.

2. Improvement Cost. The total cost of the Required Improvements is estimated to be
$926,366.

3. Standards. All work to be performed hereunder shall be done to the satisfaction of the
City Engineer. No work on the Required Improvements shall commence until the plans, profiles, and
specifications have been submitted to and approved by the City Engineer. All of the Required
Improvements shall be constructed in accordance with the approved plans, profiles, and
specifications and Subdivider shall do, or cause to be done, all work and furnish all materials
necessary in the opinion of the City Engineer to complete the Required Improvements in accordance
with the approved plans, profiles, and specifications, or any changes required by the City Engineer,
which in his or her opinion are necessary or required to complete the work. All costs of checking said
plans, profiles, and specifications, and of all inspections of the work shall be paid by Subdivider. Any
approval under this section does not relieve Subdivider, or its engineers or landscape architects, from
liability.

4. Time of Commencement and Completion. Subdivider has already obtained a site
development permit for grading or removal of major vegetation in accordance with the San Mateo
Municipal Code. Unless otherwise approved by the City, all Required Improvements shall be
constructed and approved by the City Engineer within two years and prior to occupancy of any building
on the site.

5. Payment of Costs. Without limitation, Subdivider shall pay all costs and expenses related
to or arising from the performance of any work to complete the Required Improvements, including,
but not limited to, payment for any materials, provisions, and other supplies used in, upon, for, or
about said work, and for any work or labor thereon of any kind, and for amounts due under the
Unemployment Insurance Act of the State of California, with respect to such work or labor. Costs and
expenses shall also include, but not be limited to, the costs of engineering, plans and specifications,
city personnel or consultant costs to prepare right of way maps and related documents, construction
manager, escrow payments, contract administration, encroachment permits, utility relocation, legal
fees and other services furnished by City in connection with this Agreement.

6. Acceptance by City. The City Engineer shall have the right to reject any and all Required
Improvements under this Agreement if they do not conform, in his or her sole judgment, with the

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 2 of 14
Rev. 7/21

23 of 162


--- page 24 ---
plans, profiles, and specifications mentioned herein and with the ordinances and standards of the
City. Final acceptance of the Required Improvements shall be by the City Council.

7. Guarantee and Maintenance. Notwithstanding the fact that Subdivider's plans, profiles,
and specifications, completion of work, and other acts to be performed hereunder are subject to
approval by the City, it is understood and agreed that any approval by the City shall in no way relieve
Subdivider of satisfactorily performing said work or its obligations hereunder. Subdivider warrants that
the plans, profiles, and specifications submitted shall conform at a minimum to the City Standard
Drawings and Specifications and to applicable provisions of the San Mateo Municipal Code in effect as of
the date of this Agreement, and that they are adequate to accomplish the work in a good and
workmanlike manner, and in accordance with sound construction practices.

8. Warranty of Work. Subdivider warrants and guarantees all work performed hereunder
and all materials used therein for a period of one year after completion and final acceptance by the
City Council.

9. Repair, Replacement or Reconstruction. If within the one year period after the City
Engineer accepts the Required Improvements, all or any portion of the work required under this
Agreement fails to fulfill the requirements of' this Agreement, then Subdivider, without delay and
without cost to the City shall repair, replace or reconstruct the defective or otherwise unsatisfactory
part of the work. The repair work, if required, shall be completed to the satisfaction of the City Engineer.
If Subdivider fails to act in accordance with this requirement, or should the exigencies of the situation
require repairs or replacements to be made before Subdivider can he notified, City may make the
necessary repairs and. replacement or perform the necessary work, and Subdivider shall pay to the City
the actual cost of the repairs and replacement.

10. Permits: Compliance with Law. Subdivider will, at Subdivider's expense obtain all
necessary permits and licenses for the Required Improvements and give all necessary notices and pay
all fees and taxes required by law. in the performance of this Agreement, Subdivider shall comply
with all laws, ordinances, regulations, and rules of all governmental agencies with jurisdiction,
including, but not limited to, the provisions of the Government Code, the Public Contract Code, and
the Labor Code of the State of California. With regard to the Labor Code, Subdivider agrees to comply
with, to the extent applicable, all provisions, that may include the wage and hour, prevailing wage,
workers compensation and various other labor requirements in Division 2, Part 7, Chapter 1,
including Sections 1720 to 1740, 1770 to 1780, 1810 to 1815, 1860, and 1861, which provisions are
specifically incorporated by reference as though set forth herein in their entirety. Subdivider shall
expressly require compliance with the provisions of this Section in all agreements with contractors
and subcontractors for the performance of the improvements hereunder.

11. Inspection by City. Subdivider shall, at all times, maintain proper facilities and provide
safe access for inspection by City to all parts of the work subject to City's acceptance. Subdivider shall pay
for all engineering, inspection, and survey services in accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code
Section 26.60.010.

12. Reversion to Acreage. Subdivider acknowledges that City, without limiting all other
remedies available in law and equity, may initiate proceedings to revert the Property to acreage
pursuant to Government Code Section 66499.16 if none of the improvements required to be made

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 3 of 14
Rev. 7/21

24 of 162


--- page 25 ---
have been made within two years from the date the final or parcel map was filed for record, or
within the time allowed by agreement for completion of the improvements, whichever is the later.
Subdivider shall bear all applicable costs with respect to reversion to acreage if such reversion is
completed.

13. Superintendence by Subdivider. Subdivider shall personally supervise the work or have a
competent foreman or superintendent on the work site at all times during the course of construction
with the authority to act for Subdivider.

14. Bonds Required. The Subdivider shall present to the City surety bonds of a form
satisfactory to the City Attorney, issued by a company authorized to issue surety bonds in the State
of California, as follows:

A. At the time of signing this Agreement, the following bonds shall be presented:

(1) Faithful Performance (100% of the cost of the Required Improvements) to secure
faithful performance of this Agreement by the Subdivider.

(2) Labor and Materials (50% of the cost of Required Improvements) to secure payment
by the Subdivider of laborers and material engaged pursuant to this Agreement, and
further to secure payment as required by the Unemployment Insurance Act.

B. Before the City accepts the improvements, the following bond shall be presented:

Maintenance (10% of cost of the Required Improvements) to secure performance of
Paragraph 1 above. This bond shall remain in effect for one (1) year after the date of
acceptance by the City Council of the improvements.

15. Alternate Security. In lieu of the bonds required above, alternative security approved by
the City Attorney may be substituted.

16. City May Require Additional Security. If either upon execution of this Agreement or
during the course of performance the City considers that it is necessary to have the Subdivider post
additional security, the City may require either an additional cash deposit or a surety bond guaranteeing
performance. The condition of the security shall be that if the Subdivider fails to perform its obligation
under this Agreement, the City may in the case of a cash bond act for it using the proceeds or in the case
of a surety bond require the sureties to perform the obligations of the Agreement.

17. Default and Breach by Subdivider and Remedies of the City.

A. Upon the occurrence of any of the following events, the Subdivider shall be deemed to be in
default under this Agreement:

(1) Failure to complete the Required Improvements within two years unless an
extension is otherwise granted by the City in accordance with Section 25 below.

(2) Failure to correct or cure any defect in the Required Improvements during the one-
year guarantee and warranty period.

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 4 of 14
Rev. 7/21

25 of 162


--- page 26 ---
(3) Insolvency, appointment of a receiver, or the filing of any petition in bankruptcy,
whether voluntary or involuntary, if not cured or discharged within a period of thirty
(30) days.

(4) Commencement of a foreclosure action against the subdivision or any portion
thereof, or any conveyance by the Subdivider in lieu of or in avoidance of foreclosure.

(5) Failure to perform any obligations under this Agreement within thirty (30) days after
receipt of written notice from the City of Subdivider’s failure to perform, or if
performance in 30 days is not possible, failure to commence performance and diligently
pursue completion thereafter, in accordance with the terms and provisions of this
Agreement.

B. City reserves to itself all remedies available to it at law or in equity for any breach of
Subdivider's obligations under this Agreement.

C. City shall have the right, without limitation of other rights or remedies, to draw upon or
utilize any improvement security furnished hereunder to mitigate City's damages in the event of
Subdivider's default.

1) The City may serve written notice of any default upon the surety on any corporate
surety bond furnished as improvement security hereunder, and request that the surety
take over and complete the Required Improvements. If the surety, within seven (7) days
after service of such notice of default, does not give the City written notice of its
intention to perform this Agreement, or does not commence performance within five (5)
days after notice to the City of its intention to perform, the City may take over the work
and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by other method the City deems
advisable, for the account and at the expense of the Subdivider and its surety.

2) Subdivider acknowledges that the estimated total costs and Required Improvement
security amounts set forth herein may not reflect the actual cost of construction or
installation of the Required Improvements, and consequently, City's damages for
Subdivider's default shall be measured by the cost of completing the Required
improvements. If the damages incurred by the City in taking over and completing any
portion of the Required Improvements exceed the principal amount of the Required
Improvement security, then the Subdivider shall reimburse the City in the amount of
such excess damages.

D. City may, without liability for doing so, take possession of, and utilize in completing the
Required Improvements, such materials, appliances, plant and other property belonging to
Subdivider as may be on the site of the work and necessary for the performance of the work.
Subdivider hereby consents to entry by the City and its forces, including contractors, upon any
real property in the subdivision owned by the Subdivider or by any assignee of this Agreement, in
the event the City elects to maintain or complete the work on any portion of the Required
Improvements following Subdivider's default.

E: Subdivider acknowledges and agrees that, upon approval of the Map for the Subdivision,
City will confer substantial rights upon the Subdivider, including the right to sell, lease or finance
lots within the Subdivision, and that such approval constitutes the final act necessary to permit
the division of land within the Subdivision. As a result, City will be damaged to the extent of the
cost of construction or installation of the Required Improvements upon Subdivider's failure to
perform its obligations under this Agreement. Subdivider further acknowledges that reversion to

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 5 of 14

Rev, 7/21

26 of 162


--- page 27 ---
acreage or rescission of approval of the Subdivision may be a necessary remedy for Subdivider's
default to the extent authorized by the Subdivision Map Act.

F. The City’s failure to take an enforcement action with respect to a default, or to declare a
default or breach, shall not be construed as a waiver of that default or breach or any subsequent
default or breach of the Subdivider.

G. If City sues to compel Subdivider’s performance of this Agreement, or to recover damages
or costs incurred in completing or maintaining the work on the Required Improvements,
Subdivider agrees to pay all reasonable attorneys’ fees and other costs and expenses of litigation
incurred by the City in connection therewith, even if Subdivider subsequently resumes and
completes the work.

18. Hold Harmless. Subdivider will indemnify, defend, and hold City, its elected and
appointed officers, agents, and employees harmless from any and all liabilities, obligations,
damages, costs, injuries, or claims arising from, or alleged to arise from, the performance of, or
nonperformance of, this Agreement.

The liabilities protected against are any liability or claim for damage of any kind allegedly
suffered, incurred or threatened because of actions defined below, including personal injury, death,
property damage, inverse condemnation, or any combination of these, and regardless of whether or
not such liability, claim or damage was unforeseeable at any time before the City reviewed the
improvement plans and specifications or accepted the Required Improvements as completed, and
including the defense of any suit, action or other proceeding concerning these.

The actions causing liability are any act or omission (negligent or non-negligent) in connection
with the matters covered by this Agreement and attributable to the Subdivider, contractor,
subcontractor, or any officer, agent or employee of one or more of them. The indemnification in this
section is not conditioned or dependent on whether or not the City has prepared, supplied, or reviewed
any plan(s) or specification(s) in connection with this work or subdivision, or has insurance or other
indemnification covering any of these matters, or that the alleged damage resulted partly from any
negligent or willful misconduct of the City.

19. Insurance Required. Subdivider shall procure and maintain or shall cause its
contractor(s) to procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance set forth in
Exhibit B of this Agreement.

20. No Waiver by City. Inspecting of the work or materials, or approval of work or materials,
or a statement by an officer, agent or employee of the City indicating the work complies with this
Agreement, or acceptance of all or any portion of the work or materials, or payments thereof, or any
combination of all of these acts shall not relieve Subdivider of its obligation to fulfill this Agreement;
nor is the city by these acts prohibited from bringing an action for damages arising from the failure to
comply with this Agreement.

21. Liability. Neither the City nor any of its officers, agents, or employees shall be liable to
Subdivider, its contractor, subcontractors, officers, agents, or employees, for any error or omission, or
any obligation whatsoever, arising out of or in connection with any work to be performed under this
Agreement. The City, its elected or appointed officers, agents, and employees shall not be liable to the
Subdivider or to any person, firm or corporation whatsoever, for any error or omission, or any
obligation or liability whatsoever, arising out of or in connection with any work to be performed under
this Agreement.

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 6 of 14
Rev. 7/21

27 of 162


--- page 28 ---
22. Use and Maintenance of Improvements. Subdivider agrees that the use of any and all of
the Required Improvements, for any person and by any person, shall be at the sole and exclusive risk
of the Subdivider at all times prior to final acceptance by City. Subdivider agrees to assume all
maintenance responsibilities for the Required Improvements until final acceptance by City.

23. Title to Improvements. Title to and ownership of all Required Improvements shall vest in
City for the Required Improvements.

24. Final Inspection, Certification and Acceptance. All of the Required Improvements must
be completed prior to the final inspection. Notice in writing, requesting final inspection, shall be
submitted to the City Engineer at least five days prior to the anticipated date of final inspection.
Upon the Subdivider’s satisfactory completion of the Required Improvements, the City Engineer shall
certify that the Required Improvements have been satisfactorily completed, shall recommend
acceptance of the Required Improvements by the City Council, and shall place the matter on the next
available City Council agenda.

25. Time of Essence. Time is of the essence in this Agreement. The Required Improvements
shall be completed within two years of the date of this Agreement. The City Engineer may extend the
time for completion of Required Improvements hereunder, upon good cause being shown by the
Subdivider. Any extension must be documented in an amendment to this Agreement. Any such
extension may be granted without notice to the Subdivider's surety and any extension so granted shall
not relieve surety's liability on the bonds.

26. Assignment of Contract. Neither this Agreement, nor any part of it, is assignable by
Subdivider without the written consent of the City, not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

27. Subdivider Not Agent of City. Neither Subdivider nor its agents or contractors are agents
of City in connection with the performance of Subdivider's obligations under this Agreement.

28. Notices. All notices required shall be in writing, and delivered in person or sent by
registered mail, postage prepaid. A party or the surety may change the address by notice in writing to
the other party and thereafter notices shall be addressed and transmitted to the new address.

A. Notices to the City shall be addressed as follows:

Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo

330 West 20" Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

B. Notices to the Subdivider shall be addressed as follows:

2655 Campus POP Owner, LLC
2755 Campus POP Owner, LLC
c/o Harvest Properties, Inc
180 Grand Avenue, Suite 1400
Oakland, California 94610

Attention: Preston O’Connell & Tyler Issadore

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 7 of 14
Rev. 7/21

28 of 162


--- page 29 ---
Phone: (510) 594-2050

C. Notices for the Subdivider's surety shall be sent to:

USI Insurance Services, LLC
1383 N. McDowell Blvd

Ste 170

Petaluma, CA 94954

Attn: Cathy Ronchelli-Pinney
Phone: (707) 779-1029

29. Heirs, Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure, to the
benefit of the heirs, successors and assigns of the parties.

30. Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire Agreement of the parties with
respect to its subject matter. All modifications, amendments, or waivers of any terms of this
Agreement shall be in writing and signed by the duly authorized representatives of the parties.

31. Agreement Attaches to the Land and Recordation. This Agreement pertains to and runs
with the real property described in Exhibit A. This Agreement binds the successors in interest of each
of the parties to it until all the subdivision improvements have been completed and certified
complete by the City of San Mateo. The City shall cause this Agreement to be recorded with the
County Recorder and a copy will be provided to Subdivider.

32. Severability Clause. If any portion of this Agreement is adjudged invalid, its remaining
provisions are not affected.

[SIGNATURES ON FOLLOWING PAGE]

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 8 of 14
Rev. 7/21

29 of 162


--- page 30 ---
NON-CITY SIGNATURES TO BE NOTARIZED

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY and SUBDIVIDER have executed this Agreement the day and year first

above written.

“City”
CITY OF SAN MATEO

Its: Director of Public Works

ene ee Te ee eS nee ee

APPROVED AS TO FORM

-

Mazarin Vakharia, Assistant City Attorney

Subdivision Improvement Agreement
Rev. 7/21

“Subdivider”
2655 CAMPUS POP OWNER, LLC, a Delaware
limited liability company

Lfpfsa e

met

i

Its:_~

PALE SIDLLIT

2755 CAMPUS POP OWNER, LLC, a Delaware
limited liability company

Its\/ feesipeere

Page 9 of 14

30 of 162


--- page 31 ---
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the identity of the individual who signed
the document to which this certificate is attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document.

STATE OF CALIFORNIA |
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO |

On a “2
Public, personally appeared /
evidence to be the person(s) whose name(g) is (gfe) eC hewrited to the within instrument, and acknowledged to me
that/hepshe/they executed the same in er/their authorized capacity(i), and that by(Kisther/their signature

on the Auman the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing paragraph is
true and correct.

WITNESS my hand and official seal.

AIMEE FILIPAS
Notary Public - California
Alameda County
Commission # 2424619
My Comm. Expires Nov 1, 2026

ADDITIONAL OPTIONAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING THIS FORM
Any acknowledgment completed in California must contain verbiage exactly as appears
above in the notary section or a separate acknowledgment form must be properly completed
and attached to that document. The only exception is if a document is to be recorded outside
DESCRIPTION OF THE ATTACHED DOCUMENT of California. In such instances, any alternative acknowledgment verbiage as may be printed
on such a document so long as the verbiage does not require the notary to do something that
is illegal for a notary in California (i.e., certifying the authorized capacity of the signer). Please
check the document carefully for proper notarial wording and attach this form if required.
@ State and County information must be the State and County where the document signer(s)
personally appeared before the notary public for acknowledgment.
® Date of notarization must be the date that the signer(s) personally appeared which must
also be the same date the acknowledgment is completed.
@ The notary public must print his or her name as it appears within his or her commission
(Title or description of attached document continued) followed by a comma and then your title (notary public).
® Print the name(s) of document signer(s) who personally appear at the time of notarization.
®@ Indicate the correct singular or plural forms by crossing off incorrect forms (i.e.,
he/she/they, is/are) or circling the correct forms. Failure to correctly indicate this
information may lead to rejection of document recording.
@ The notary seal impression must be clear and photographically reproducible. Impression
must not cover text or fines. If seal impression smudges, re-seal if a sufficient area permits,
otherwise complete a different acknowledgment form.
CAPACITY CLAIMED BY THE SIGNER @ Signature of the notary public must match the signature on file with the office of the county
Individual (a) spi
# Additional information is not required but could help to ensure this acknowledgment is not
Corporate Officer misused or attached to a different document.
Title) # Indicate title or type of attached document, number of pages and date.
# Indicate the capacity claimed by the signer. If the claimed capacity is a corporate officer,
Partner(a) indicate the title (i.e., CEO, CFO, Secretary).
eSecurely attach this document to the signed document

(Title or description of attached document)

Attorney-in-Fact

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 10 of 14
Rev. 7/21

31 of 162


--- page 32 ---
ACKNOWLEDGMENT

A notary public or other officer completing this
certificate verifies only the identity of the individual
who signed the document to which this certificate is
attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or
validity of that document.

State of California
County of .S@u Mets )

On Apel Fi £6 yi, before me, Cho | A Anil Nolen, fspkc
(insert name and title of the officer)

personally appeared A LGfee Wi tck_ '

who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s} is/are
subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that hg/she/they executed the same in
his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/th@ir signature(s) on the instrument the
person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

| certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing
paragraph is true and correct.

WITNESS my hand and official seal. CHERYL A. BURNETT

Notary Public - California = &
San Mateo County

s VS) Commission # 2308897
Chet C Y Fees” My Comm. Expires Nov 12, 2023
Signature #e*0 Se —“‘CCOONCOC*C‘#CSS@eadi*+)

32 of 162


--- page 33 ---
33 of 162


--- page 34 ---
Exhibit A

DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY

Real property in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, described as
follows:

LOTS 5 AND 6, AS SAID LOTS ARE SHOWN ON THE MAP ENTITLED "PENINSULA OFFICE PARK",
FILED IN BOOK 78 OF MAPS, AT PAGE 32, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN
MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA.

Subdivision improvement Agreement Page 11 of 14
Rev. 7/21

34 of 162


--- page 35 ---
Exhibit B
Insurance Requirements
City of San Mateo Insurance Requirements

CITY OF SAN MATEO
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
330 West 20" Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
(650) 522-7300
(650) 522-7301 fax

i i ii i

Subdivider shall procure and maintain or shall cause its contractor(s) to procure and maintain for the duration of
the contract insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damage to property which may arise from or in
connection with the performance of the work hereunder and the results of that work by the Subdivider, his
agents, representatives, employees, or subcontractors. With respect to General Liability, Errors & Omissions,
Contractors Pollution Liability, and/or Asbestos Pollution Liability, coverage should be maintained for a
minimum of five (5) years after contract completion.

MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:

Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office Form CG 00 01 covering CGL on an “occurrence”
basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, bodily injury and personal &
advertising injury with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies,
either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.

Automobile Liability: Insurance Services Office Form Number CA 0001 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor
has no owned autos, hired (Code 8) and non-owned (Code 9) autos, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per
accident for bodily injury and property damage.

Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and Employer's
Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease.

Contractors Pollution Liability and/or Asbestos Pollution Liability and/or Errors & Omissions applicable to the
work being performed, with a limit no less than $2,000,000 per claim or occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate
per policy period of one year.

If the Subdivider maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City
requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or higher limits maintained by the Subdivider. Any
available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be available
to the City.

Self Insured Retentions

Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. At the option of the City, the
Subdivider shall provide coverage to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions as respects the City, its
officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or the Subdivider shall provide evidence satisfactory to the City
guaranteeing payment of losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The
policy language shall provide, or be endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be satisfied by

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 12 of 14
Rev. 7/21

35 of 162


--- page 36 ---
either the named insured or Entity.

Other Insurance Provisions
A. The General Liability, Automobile Liability, Contractors Pollution Liability, and/or Asbestos Pollution policies
are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:

1. The City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional insureds with
respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the Subdivider including
materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations. General liability
coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the Subdivider’s insurance (at least as broad
as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if
later revisions used).

2. For any claims related to this project, the Subdivider’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance
coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the City, its officers, officials, employees,
agents, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its officers, officials,
employees, agents, or volunteers shall be excess of the Subdivider’s insurance and shall not contribute
with it.

3. Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except with notice
to the Entity.

B. The Automobile Liability policy shall be endorsed to include Transportation Pollution Liability insurance,
covering materials to be transported by Subdivider pursuant to the contract. This coverage may also be
provided on the Contractors Pollution Liability policy.

C. If General Liability, Contractors Pollution Liability and/or Asbestos Pollution Liability and/or Errors & Omissions
coverages are written on a claims-made form:

1. The retroactive date must be shown, and must be before the date of the contract or the beginning of
contract work.

2. Insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least five (5) years after
completion of the contract of work.

3. If coverage is canceled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy form with a
retroactive date prior to the contract effective date, the Subdivider must purchase an extended period
coverage for a minimum of five (5) years after completion of contract work.

4. Acopy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the City for review.

5. If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification / remediation, the Contractors Pollution
Liability shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos exclusions. If the services involve mold identification
/ remediation, the Contractors Pollution Liability shall not contain a mold exclusion and the definition of
“Pollution” shall include microbial matter including mold.

Acceptability of Insurers

Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current A.M.
Best rating of no less than A:VII if admitted in the State of California.

Verification of Coverage
Subdivider shall furnish the Entity with original Certificates of Insurance including all required
amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this

clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL policy listing all policy endorsements to
City before work begins. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall
not waive the Subdivider’s obligation to provide them. The City reserves the right to require complete, certified

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 13 of 14
Rev. 7/21

36 of 162


--- page 37 ---
copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.

Waiver of Subrogation

Subdivider hereby grants to City a waiver of subrogation which any insurer may acquire against City, its
officers, officials, employees, and volunteers, from Subdivider by virtue of the payment of any loss. Subdivider
agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation but this provision
applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the
insurer.

The Workers’ Compensation policy shall be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the City
for all work performed by the Subdivider, its employees, agents, and subcontractors.

Subcontractors

Subdivider shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting ail the
requirements stated herein, and Subdivider shall ensure that City is an additional insured on insurance required
from subcontractors. For CGL coverage subcontractors shall provide coverage with a format least as broad as CG
20 38 04 13.

Special Risks or Circumstances

Entity reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of the risk, prior
experience, insurer, coverage, or other special circumstances.

Subdivision Improvement Agreement Page 14 of 14
Rev. 7/21

37 of 162


--- page 38 ---
OWNER'S STATEMENT

WE HEREBY STATE THAT WE ARE THE OWNERS OF OR HAVE SOME RIGHT, TITLE OR INTEREST
IN AND TO THE REAL PROPERTY INCLUDED WITHIN THE SUBDIVISION SHOWN UPON THE HEREIN
MAP; THAT WE ARE THE ONLY PERSONS WHOSE CONSENT IS NECESSARY TO PASS CLEAR
TITLE TO SAID REAL PROPERTY; AND THAT WE CONSENT TO THE PREPARATION AND
RECORDATION OF SAID MAP AND SUBDIVISION SHOWN WITHIN THE DISTINCTIVE BORDER.

THE REAL PROPERTY DESCRIBED BELOW IS DEDICATED AS AN EASEMENT FOR PUBLIC
PURPOSES:

1) THOSE CERTAIN STRIPS OF LAND DESIGNATED AND DELINEATED AS "PAE (PUBLIC
ACCESS EASEMENT) AS SHOWN ON THIS MAP. SAID "PAE" TO BE KEPT OPEN AND FREE
FROM BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES OF ANY KIND EXCEPT ALL LAWFUL UNSUPPORTED
ROOF OVERHANGS. MAINTENANCE OF THE PAE, SURFACES AND STRUCTURES WILL BE
THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION ALL IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
SUBDIVISION RESTRICTIONS GOVERNING THIS PROJECT.

THOSE CERTAIN STRIPS OF LAND DESIGNATED AS “EVAE” (EMERGENCY VEHICLE ACCESS
EASEMENT) AS SHOWN ON THIS MAP, SAID "EVAE” TO BE KEPT OPEN AND FREE FROM
BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES OF ANY KIND EXCEPT ALL LAWFUL UNSUPPORTED ROOF
OVERHANGS.

WE ALSO HEREBY DEDICATE THE PUBLIC USE EASEMENTS FOR ANY AND ALL PUBLIC
SERVICE FACILITIES INCLUDING POLES, WIRES, CONDUITS, ELECTRICAL FACILITIES, GAS,
WATER, HEAT MAINS, COMMUNICATION AND FIBER FACILITIES AND ALL APPURTENANCES
TO THE ABOVE, UNDER, UPON, OR OVER THOSE CERTAIN STRIPS OF LAND LYING
BETWEEN THE FRONT AND/OR SIDE LINES OF LOTS AND THE DASHED LINES AND/OR
THOSE CERTAIN AREAS LYING BETWEEN DASHED LINES EACH DESIGNATED AS PUE
(PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT). THE ABOVE MENTIONED PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT TO BE
KEPT OPEN AND FREE FROM BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES OF ANY KIND EXCEPT PUBLIC
SERVICE STRUCTURES, IRRIGATION SYSTEMS AND APPURTENANCES THERETO, LAWFUL
FENCES AND ALL LAWFUL UNSUPPORTED ROOF OVERHANGS.

WE ALSO HEREBY RESERVE THE AREAS DESIGNATED AS “PRSE” (PRIVATE STREET EASEMENT)
FOR THE OWNERS, THEIR LICENSEES, VISITORS, AND TENANTS FOR THE PURPOSES OF PRIVATE
STREETS INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO PRIVATE INGRESS AND EGRESS, PRIVATE UTILITIES
INCLUDING PRIVATE STORM DRAINAGE AND PRIVATE SANITARY SEWER FACILITIES, LANDSCAPING
AND ALL APPURTENANCES TO THE ABOVE. MAINTENANCE OF SAID EASEMENT SHALL BE THE
RESPONSIBILITY OF THE HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION ALL IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SUBDIVISION
RESTRICTIONS GOVERNING THIS PROJECT.

THE PRIVATE STREETS DESIGNATED AS STREET A AND STREET B CONTAINED WITHIN THIS
SUBDIVISION ARE NOT OFFERED NOR ACCEPTED FOR DEDICATION FOR PUBLIC STREET
PURPOSES.

WE ALSO HEREBY RESERVE THE AREAS DESIGNATED AS "COSE” (COMMON OPEN SPACE
EASEMENT), OVER PARCELS A-F, FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE OWNERS, THEIR LICENSEES,
VISITORS, TENANTS AND THE HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION FOR THE PURPOSES OF PRIVATE
OPEN SPACE, INSTALLING AND MAINTAINING ANY RETAINING WALLS, DRAINAGE SYSTEMS,
AND LANDSCAPING AND ALL APPURTENANCES TO THE ABOVE. THE HOMEOWNERS
ASSOCIATION SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR MAINTENANCE OF ALL AUTHORIZED
IMPROVEMENTS WITHIN THE COSE. OWNER, FOR THE DIRECT BENEFIT OF THE FUTURE HOA,
HEREBY DECLARES THAT THE EASEMENT SHALL BE SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS
RUNNING WITH THE LAND WHICH SHALL BE BINDING UPON ALL SUBSEQUENT GRANTEES AS
DESCRIBED IN THE CC&RS AND SHALL NOT BE FURTHER SUBDIMDED NOR DEVELOPED
DURING THE UFETIME OF THE PROVECT.

THIS MAP SHOWS OR NOTES ALL THE EASEMENTS EXISTING OR OF RECORD WITHIN THE
BOUNDARY LINES OF THE HEREON EMBODIED MAP.

AS OWNER: 2755 CAMPUS POP OWNER, LLC, A DELAWARE LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY

we a own R. LUINTHER.
Te _ P2esibedr .

DATE: 5 [4] 2

AS OWNER: 2655 CAMPUS POP OWNER, LLC, A DELAWARE LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY

BY: ft Yee
name (baw). owas R. Wis rHee.

qme:_/ZRS1DENT.
ove: _5/#/23

JOB NO. 3342-00

PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SOUTH

BEING A SUBDIVISION CREATING 44 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL LOTS,
AND 6 PARCELS FOR A MAXIMUM OF !12 RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM UNITS
CONSISTING OF 13 SHEETS

BEING A RESUBDIVISION OF LOTS 5 AND 6, AS SAID LOTS ARE SHOWN ON
THE MAP ENTITLED "PENINSULA OFFICE PARK", FILED IN BOOK 78 OF MAPS,
AT PAGE 32, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS
CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

SAN RAMON”) = (925) 866-0322
cb ROSEVILLE = (916)788-4456
WWW.CBANOG.COM

CIVILENGINEERS © SURVEYORS *= PLANNERS
DECEMBER 2022

OWNER'S ACKNOWLEDGMENT

A NOTARY PUBLIC OR OTHER OFFICER COMPLETING THIS CERTIFICATE VERIFIES ONLY THE
IDENTITY OF THE INDIVIDUAL WHO SIGNED THE DOCUMENT TO WHICH THIS CERTIFICATE IS
ATTACHED, AND NOT THE TRUTHFULNESS, ACCURACY, OR VALIDITY OF THAT DOCUMENT.

STATE OF abifocnia | SS.

COUNTY OF A/dmeda_}

ow 5/4/2093 . BEFORE ME, Aimee. Klinas A
_—_stohin R- blinthér

NOTARY PUBLIC, PERSONALLY APPEARED pin R- c 1 WHO
PROVED TO ME ON THE BASIS OF SATISFACTORY EVIDENCE TO BE THE PERSON(S) WHOSE
NAME(S) IS/ARE SUBSCRIBED TO THE WITHIN INSTRUMENT AND ACKNOWLEDGED TO ME THAT
HE/SHE/THEY EXECUTED THE SAME IN HIS/HER/THEIR AUTHORIZED CAPACITY(IES), AND THAT
BY HIS/HER/THEIR SIGNATURE(S) ON THE INSTRUMENT THE PERSON(S), OR THE ENTITY UPON
BEHALF OF WHICH THE PERSON(S) ACTED, EXECUTED THE INSTRUMENT.

| CERTIFY UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA THAT
THE FOREGOING PARAGRAPH IS TRUE AND CORRECT.

WITNESS MY HAND:

SIGNATURE:

NAME (PRINT): Aimee ‘Ai fpos
PRINCIPAL COUNTY oF BUSNESS: _A//ameda
MY COMMISSION NUMBER: 249 2S# (GF

UY couission expires: _/2/ 7 ! 2026

BENEFICIARY'S STATEMENT

THE UNDERSIGNED, ACORE CAPITAL MORTGAGE, LP, A DELAWARE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, IN ITS
CAPACITY AS ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, AS BENEFICIARY UNDER THE DEED OF TRUST RECORDED ON
JULY 27, 2018, DOCUMENT NUMBER 2018-05909 OF OFFICIAL RECORDS, SAN MATEO COUNTY,
CALIFORNIA, AND DEED OF TRUST RECORDED ON JULY 30, 2018, DOCUMENT NUMBER
2018-059102 OF OFFICIAL RECORDS, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA; DOES HEREBY JOIN IN
AND CONSENT TO THE FOREGOING OWNERS STATEMENT AND ALL DEDICATIONS SHOWN HEREIN.

ACORE CAPITAL MORTGAGE, LP,
A DELAWARE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
{N ITS CAPACITY AS ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT

BENEFICIARY'S ACKNOWLEDGMENT

A NOTARY PUBLIC OR OTHER OFFICER COMPLETING THIS CERTIFICATE VERIFIES ONLY THE
IDENTITY OF THE INDIVIDUAL WHO SIGNED THE DOCUMENT TO WHICH THIS CERTIFICATE |S
ATTACHED, AND NOT THE TRUTHFULNESS, ACCURACY, OR VALIDITY OF THAT DOCUMENT.

STATE OF 18

COUNTY }

oi Phereh 29, 2085 . BEFORE ME, aba vA
NOTARY PUBLIC, PERSCNALLY APPEARED * WHO

PROVED TO ME ON THE BASIS OF SATISFACTORY EVIDENCE TO BE THE PERSON(S) WHOSE
NAME(S) IS/ARE SUBSCRIBED TO THE WITHIN INSTRUMENT AND ACKNOWLEDGED TO ME THAT
HE/SHEAMEY EXECUTED THE SAME IN HIS/HER,GHER AUTHORIZED CAPACITY(IES), AND THAT
BY HIS/HERARBIR SIGNATURE(S) ON THE INSTRUMENT THE PERSON(S), OR THE ENTITY UPON
BEHALF OF WHICH THE PERSON(S) ACTED, EXECUTED THE INSTRUMENT.

| CERTIFY UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA THAT
THE FOREGOING PARAGRAPH {S TRUE AND CORRECT.

WITNESS MY HAND:

SIGNATURE: HhutGroke
NAME. (PRINT): :

PRINCIPAL COUNTY OF BUSINESS:

MY COMMISSION NUMBER:
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES:

COUNTY RECORDER'S STATEMENT

Figo FoR Recono Tusa S7ay oF Valy 2023. at 34 PM, IN BOOK
OF MAPS AT PAGES Zc “e@4AT THE REQUEST OF PATRICE OLDS CITY CLERK OF THE CITY OF
SAN WATEO,

FILE No. 2203 - WOOO FZ, WARK CHURCH
COUNTY RECORDER
ree: $ 1&9. 2 COUNTY OF SAN MATEO
STATE. OF CAHFORNIA

Lf LgS

” DEPUPY COUNTY/ RECORDER

BY: lf

By: ACORE Capltal Mortgage GP, UL, a Delaware limited liability company, its Senerel partner
BY.

-
NAME (PRINT): _Seson ANann
Tite:

pate: _ 3/9A1¥

SHEET 1 OF 13

38 of 162


--- page 39 ---
JOB NO, 3342-00

CITY ENGINEER'S STATEMENT

| HEREBY STATE HAVE EXAMINED THE MAP OF THE SUBDIVISION AS SHOWN IS SUBSTANTIALLY THE
SAME AS IT APPEARED ON THE APPROVED TENTATIVE MAP, AND ANY APPROVED ALTERATIONS OF
THE TENTATIVE MAP IF ANY. AND THAT ALL PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 2 OF THE SUBDIVISION MAP
ACT AND OF ANY LOCAL ORDINANCES APPLICABLE AT THE TIME OF APPROVAL OF THE TENTATIVE
MAP HAVE BEEN COMPLIED WITH.

H
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS, CITY OF SAN MATEO
RCE NO, 60952

CITY SURVEYOR'S STATEMENT

| HEREBY STATE THAT | HAVE EXAMINED THIS MAP AND THAT | AM SATISFIED THAT SAID MAP IS
TECHNICALLY CORRECT.

TAWE-SOPHIE TRUONG, CITY SURVEYOR

LS. NO, 8998

02/13/2023
DATE

DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT'S
STATEMENT

THIS MAP HAS BEEN FOUND TO CONFORM SUBSTANTIALLY WITH THE TENTATIVE MAP APPROVED BY THE

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR

CITY CLERK'S STATEMENT

| PATRICE M. OLDS, CITY CLERK OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THE CITY
COUNCIL OF SAID CITY AT ITS REGULAR MEETING HELD ON "@- , DULY
APPROVED THE MAP SHOWN HEREON, AUTHORIZED ITS RECORDATION, AND ACCEPTED ON BEHALF OF
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ALL REAL PROPERTY AS SHOWN AND DESIGNATED ON SAID MAP AS BEING
OFFERED FOR DEDICATION TO THE CITY OF SAN MATEO IN CONFORMITY WITH THE TERMS OF SAID
OFFER OF DEDICATION.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, 1 HAVE HEREUNTO SET MY HAND THIS Any OF Mag , wip

PATRICE M. OLDS

CITY CLERK OF

CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY,
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SOUTH

BEING A SUBDIVISION CREATING 44 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL LOTS,
AND 6 PARCELS FOR A MAXIMUM OF 112 RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM UNITS
CONSISTING OF 13 SHEETS

BEING A RESUBDIVISION OF LOTS 5 AND 6, AS SAID LOTS ARE SHOWN ON
THE MAP ENTITLED "PENINSULA OFFICE PARK", FILED IN BOOK 78 OF MAPS,
AT PAGE 32, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS
CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

CIVILENGINEERS * SURVEYORS = PLANNERS
DECEMBER 2022

SAN RAMON = (925) 866-0322
ROSEVILLE = (916)788-4456
WWW.CBANDG.COM

SURVEYOR'S STATEMENT

THIS MAP WAS PREPARED BY ME OR UNDER MY DIRECTION AND IS BASED UPON A FIELD SURVEY
IN CONFORMANCE WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SUBDIVISION MAP ACT AND LOCAL ORDINANCE
AT THE REQUEST OF 2755 CAMPUS POP OWNER, LLC AND 2655 CAMPUS POP OWNER, LLC ON
JANUARY 12, 2021. | HEREBY STATE THAT ALL THE MONUMENTS ARE OF THE CHARACTER AND
OCCUPY THE POSITIONS INDICATED OR THAT THEY WILL BE SET IN THOSE POSITIONS BEFORE
DECEMBER 31, 2024, AND THAT THE MONUMENTS ARE, OR WILL BE SUFFICIENT TO ENABLE THE
SURVEY TO BE RETRACED, AND THAT THIS FINAL MAP SUBSTANTIALLY CONFORMS TO THE

CONDITIONALLY APPROVED TENTATIVE MAP.
2/elzoz3 Za

DATE MARK H. WEHBER, PLS.
LS. NO. 7960

SOILS REPORT

A SOILS REPORT ON WAS PREPARED BY ENGEO INCORPORATED, ENTITLED PENINSULA HEIGHTS

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA GEOTECHNICAL EXPLORATION, DATED NOVEMBER 26, 2019 AND

REVISED APRIL 23, 2020, PROJECT NO. 16683,000.000.

39 of 162

SHEET 2 OF 13



--- page 40 ---
UNE TABLE

43°38'54" .06 | (N43'38'54"E 71.18°)(1
MasaeHE | 7106 |( WY FOUND 1-1/2" IRON PIPE

WITH ILLEGIBLE TAG
(" IRON PIPE TAGGED

t——

RCE 12300)(1)
CURVE TABLE

RADIUS FOUND 1-1/2" IRON PIPE

WITH ILLEGIBLE TAG

33.50" (1) (1" IRON PIPE TAGGED
RCE 12300)(1)

26°37'22" (1)

0'49'25" | 6.00" | (0'49'24")(1)
45°02'46" (45°00°00")(42.17'X1)
| sooo" | 4712 |(1)

N45°04'00"W = 270.56'(1)

(N45°00'00"W)(1)

FOUND 1-1/2" IRON PIPE
1” IRON PIPE TAGGED
RCE. 12300)(1)

N89'49'50"W(R)

N45'01'29"W(R)

N44°58'31"E 267.59'(1)
(N45°00'00"E)(1)

FOUND 1-1/2" IRON PIPE_WITH PLUG
AND TACK WITH NO TAG
(1" IRON PIPE TAGGED "RCE 12300)(1)

LOTS 5 AND 6
78 MAPS 32

8.41 ACE

PRIVATE EASEMENT FOR PARKING

PER OR. 2018-059101
TO BE QUITCLAIMED BY SEPARATE
INSTRUMENT

25 PM 02

FOUND 1-1/2" IRON PIPE WITH PLUG
AND TACK AND ILLEGIBLE TAG
(1" IRON PIPE TAGGED "RCE 12300)(1)

w
6
3.

S

FOUND 1" IRON PIPE

/ (TT IRON PPE TAGGED
RCE. 12300)(1)

10'x10" PUE

EASEMENT FOR WATER PIPE ___-
LINES AND PUBLIC UTILITIES
PER 6061 O.R. 439 \

= N45°00'00"E(1) 348.37" CALC.|
(345.00')(1) |

PARCEL A
78 M 32

JOB NO. 3342-00

N45'23'34"W  488.00'(1)

NOTE:

ALL DISTANCES SHOWN HEREON ARE IN FEET AND DECIMALS THEREOF.
TOTAL AREA OF THIS SUBDIMSION IS 8.41 ACRES MORE OR LESS.

LOTS 5 AND 6 AS SHOWN ON THAT MAP ENTITLED "PENINSULA OFFICE
PARK”, FILED FOR RECORD IN BOOK 78 OF MAPS, AT PAGE 32, SAN
MATEO COUNTY RECORDS ARE HEREBY MERGED AND RE-SUBDIVIDED PER
SECTION 66499.20.2 OF THE GOVERNMENT CODE.

ALL LOT CORNERS AND ANGLE POINT MARKERS ARE TO BE REFERENCED
WITH A GALVANIZED IRON PIPE NOT LESS THAN ONE INCH IN DIAMETER
AND TWENTY-FOUR INCHES LONG WITH TAG LS7960, SHALL BE DRIVEN
FLUSH WITH THE SURFACE OF THE GROUND AT EACH LOT CORNER, ANGLE
POINT AND CURVE POINT WHERE NO MONUMENT IS SET.

CAMPUS DRIVE
N45'23'34°W 488.00(M-M)(1) (PUBLIC STREET)

BASIS OF BEARING

'
EASEMENT FOR SINGLE LINE !
OF POLES AND WIRES

PER 1468 OR. 138

EASEMENT FOR INGRESS AND.
EGRESS AND PUBLIC UTILITIES
PER 1704 O.R. 143

40.00'(1)
N44°36'26"E(1)
o—

N43'38'54°E 246.741) |! 7.50'(1)
fr W46°21'06"W(1)

|
|

FOUND 1" IRON PIPE
1” IRON PIPE TAGGED

RCE 12300)(1)

PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SOUTH

BEING A SUBDIVISION CREATING 44 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL LOTS,
AND 6 PARCELS FOR A MAXIMUM OF 112 RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM UNITS
CONSISTING OF 13 SHEETS

BEING A RESUBDIVISION OF LOTS 5 AND 6, AS SAID LOTS ARE SHOWN ON
THE MAP ENTITLED "PENINSULA OFFICE PARK", FILED IN BOOK 78 OF MAPS,
AT PAGE 32, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS
CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

SAN RAMON = (925) 866-0322
cb ROSEVILLE =  (916)788-4456
‘WWW.CBANDG.COM
CIVILENGINEERS * SURVEYORS *= PLANNERS
SCALE: 1"= 80' | DECEMBER 2022

80' 0 40 = 80 160'

ee

GRAPHIC SCALE

BASIS OF BEARINGS:

THE BASIS OF BEARINGS FOR THIS MAP IS THE CENTERLINE OF CAMPUS DRIVE
BETWEEN THE FOUND MONUMENTS SHOWN HEREON, THE BEARING BEING N45'23'34°W
PER THAT MAP ENTITLED "PENINSULA OFFICE PARK” (78 M 32)

LEGEND

SHEET NUMBER

SUBDIVISION BOUNDARY LINE
RIGHT OF WAY LINE

LOT LINE

EASEMENT LINE

CENTERLINE

TOTAL

RADIAL

MONUMENT TO MONUMENT
MONUMENT TO PROPERTY LINE
RECORD DATA WTH REFERENCE

FOUND CITY OF SAN MATEO STREET
MONUMENT PER (1)

FOUND 2° IRON PIPE PER (1)

FOUND 1" IRON PIPE WITH NAIL AND
TAG PER (1)

FOUND MONUMENT AS NOTED
° SET IRON PIPE WITH TAG LS 7960

CALC. CALCULATED
COSE COMMON OPEN SPACE EASEMENT

EMERGENCY VEHICLE ACCESS
EVAE EASEMENT

PAE PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENT
PRSE PRIVATE STREET EASEMENT
PUE PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT

REFERENCES:

(#) INDICATES REFERENCE NUMBER
(1) 78 MAPS 32

(2) 25 PM 02

(3) 81M 11

SHEET 3 OF 13

40 of 162


--- page 41 ---
25 PM 02

PARCEL A
78 M 32

SHEET INDEX

JOB NO. 3342-00

PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SOUTH

BEING A SUBDIVISION CREATING 44 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL LOTS,
AND 6 PARCELS FOR A MAXIMUM OF 112 RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM UNITS
CONSISTING OF 13 SHEETS

BEING A RESUBDIVISION OF LOTS 5 AND 6, AS SAID LOTS ARE SHOWN ON
THE MAP ENTITLED "PENINSULA OFFICE PARK", FILED IN BOOK 78 OF MAPS,
AT PAGE 32, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS
CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

SAN RAMON = = (925) 866-0322
Cc b ROSEVILLE = (916)788-4456
WWW.CBANDG.COM

CIVILENGINEERS * SURVEYORS * PLANNERS
SCALE: 1"= 100' DECEMBER 2022

0 650’ 100" 200'

GRAPHIC SCALE

BASIS OF BEARINGS:

THE BASIS OF BEARINGS FOR THIS MAP IS THE CENTERLINE OF CAMPUS DRIVE
BETWEEN THE FOUND MONUMENTS SHOWN HEREON, THE BEARING BEING N45'23'34"W
PER THAT MAP ENTITLED "PENINSULA OFFICE PARK” (78 M 32)

SHEET NUMBER

SUBDIVISION BOUNDARY LINE
RIGHT OF WAY LINE

LOT LINE

EASEMENT LINE

CENTERLINE

TOTAL

RADIAL

MONUMENT TO MONUMENT
MONUMENT TO PROPERTY LINE
RECORD DATA WITH REFERENCE

FOUND CITY OF SAN MATEO STREET
MONUMENT PER (1)

FOUND 2" IRON PIPE PER (1)

FOUND 1” IRON PIPE WITH NAIL AND
TAG PER (1)

FOUND MONUMENT AS NOTED
SET IRON PIPE WITH TAG LS 7960

CALCULATED
COMMON OPEN SPACE EASEMENT

EMERGENCY VEHICLE ACCESS
EASEMENT

PAE PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENT
PRIVATE. STREET EASEMENT
PUE PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT

REFERENCES:

(#) INDICATES REFERENCE NUMBER
(1) 78 MAPS 32

(2) 25 PM 02

(3) 81M 11

SHEET 4 OF 13

41 of 162


--- page 42 ---
NOTES: UNE TABLE [une TABLE | UNE TABLE CURVE TABLE CURVE TABLE PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SOUTH

NO | BEARNG | LENGTH No] BEARING No] BEARING RADIUS | DELTA | LENGTH wo | Raous | DELTA Hao on ie A, OF Su MNUMUNTS

SEE SHEET 3 FOR BASIS OF BEARINGS
SEE SHEET 3 FOR REFERENCES u | Nag27'42"e | 3.25" U3 | nag'z7'4z"e | 2. L25 | N45‘00'00"E 76.00' | 16'02'24" | 21.28 cg | 2.00' | g0°00'00"

1.
2

3. SEE SHEET 3 FOR LEGEND

4. SEE SHEET 3 FOR ADDITIONAL NOTES. | Lp | nqq'a7'42"e | 17,86" Lid | nasssotterw | 16, 126 | N45'00'00"W 50.00° | 16°34'42" | 14,47" 2.00' | 90%0'00" SEE SHEET 7 ee RAOEED “PENWSULAOTTICE Ps os UNI ROOX TS OF Mins

L3 | N89'29'10"E | 16.49" US | N44°27'42°E | 171 L27 | N45'03'59"E 76.00' | 16'34'42" | 21.99" 50.00 | 670113" AT PAGE 32, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS
10°33'29" | 9.21" CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

_ 7 SAN RAMON = (925) 866-0322
26'25'57" | 27.68 cbg ROSEVILLE = (916)788-4456
L6 | N45'32'18"W | 19.02" Lig | n45%6'44"W | 10. N45‘00'00"E 25%0'20" | 10.98" 1834'03" | 19.44" ) WWIW-CBANDS.COM

an : sent a . tnam team , CIVILENGINEERS *® SURVEYORS = PLANNERS
L7 | N4427'42"E | 19.09 Lig | N63'52'23°E | 12.37° |(cose) N45'00'00"W 25°05'56" | 10.95 8 SCALE:1"= 20° DECEMBER 2022
LB | N6346'22"E | 3.08" N45'00'00"E | 23.39" |(cose) N45'00'00"W 25°05'56" | 10.95' Sy” . 0 2 aw
LO | N45'35'12"W | 18.02" N4532'18"W | 17, N45°00'00"E a

asrw | 1.00 weeasiere | 1050
NOO'33'45"W | 18.00 316"E GRAPHIC SCALE
N89'26'15"E | 17.00" N45'32'18"W
NOO'33'45"W | 18.00" N44°27'42"E 7 FOUND 1-1/2" IRON PIPE WITH PLUG

; AND TACK WITH NO TAG
(1” IRON PIPE TAGGED "RCE 12300)(1)

L4 | Noo'30'50"W | 17.00" L16 | N45'32'18"W . 128 | Nasro0'00"E 16°02'24" | 14.00
L5 | N89°29°10"E | 18.02" U7 | N44'27'42"E . N45'00'00"W 134'58'33" | 4.71

(N45'00'00"E)(1)
N44°58'31"E 267.59"

N4500'00"W 56.00°

N44°59'S1"E 49,32"

N45‘00'00"W_56.00'

PARCEL B
(24 CONDOMINIUM UNITS)
1.39 ACE

PARCEL C

(16 CONDOMINIUM UNITS)
0.78 ACE

SEE SHEET 6

O -_— _
N44'27'42"E _ 137.80" N45°00'00"E 91.45'(T)

STRE ET A STREET A
, 0.84 ACE
(PRSE, PUE, EVAE) (PRSE, PUE, EVAE)

N4500'00"E_57.42’ N45°00'00"E 163.45'(T)

N45‘00'00"W

29.25"

id
PUE A

SEE SHEET 11

8

1,609 SF

SEE SHEET 11 Tea Ser SHEET 1

6 ls 7

1,609 SF 1,609 SFE

SEE SHEET 11

PUE #10
SEE SHEET 11

1

1,499 SF+

PUE C
SEE SHEET 1 SEE SHEET 11

3

1,609 SF+

SEE SHEET mT

5

1,609 SF

SEE SHEET 11

2

1,606 SF

4

1,609 SF

PUE #5

179 SFE

N45°00'00"W 54.15"
N45'00'00°W 55.00"
N4500°00°W 55.00
N45°00'00"W 55.00"
N45'00'00"W 55.00"
N45°00'00"W 55.00"
N45‘00'00"W 55.00"

2
2
FI
o
=
z

N45‘05'02"W__ 49,74"

(28 CONDOMINIUM UNITS)
116 ACE

SEE SHEET 9

JOB NO. 3342-00 SHEET 5 OF 13

42 of 162


--- page 43 ---
(24 CONDOMINIUM UNITS)

1.39 AC

SEE SHEET 5

SEE SHEET 11

9

1,905 SF+

N45'00'00"W__55.00"
N45"00'00"W 55.72"

(24 CONDOMINIUM UNITS)
139 ACE 1g

38.73
N45°00'00°E 359.31'(1) _
325.88(T)(COSE)
296.55'(T)(COSE)

PARCEL E
(28 CONDOMINIUM UNITS)
116 ACE

N45°00'00"E 145.68'(T)

STREET B

1.47 ACE
(PRSE, PUE, EVAE)

N45°00'00"E 143.59'(T)

JOB NO. 3342-00

wase20"
L=2t6t

UE_ #16
SEE SHEET 11

-
N44°59'59"W ssos0(n_

eet

ood aN
or A

VE #t
SEE SHEET 11

a #7

137 SFE
N58'36'20°W(R)

+ -G

N45‘00’00"W 85.00'(T)

SEE SHEET 10

UNE TABLE
BEARING

LINE TABLE
NO | BEARING

LENGTH

NO | BEARING

LINE TABLE

N90°00'00"E

N88"41'22"E

4.72
4.72
18,00"

Li | N44'36'26"E
L2 | N44‘36'26"E

L3 | N55'30'02"W
U4 | N88‘41'22"E

L5 | NOt%8'38"W

18.00°
5.24

5.40°

L6 | NOO'00'00"W

NOO'%35'52"W | 13.56"

5° PUE
PER (1)

PUE ft
SEES ™N
EET 12 ae

7
7

PARCELD |”

(18 CONDOMINIUM UNITS) 4

1.47 ACE
(PRSE, EVAE, PUE)

C2" N45‘00'00°E 54.94"
UE #18
SEE SHEET 11

1,605 SF
PUE A

~~ SEE SHEET 11

N45‘00'00"E 55.00"

43

1,613 SF

7 PUE B
SEE SHEET 11

N45'00'00"E 55.00"

42

1,605 SF

A
SEE SHEET 11

N45'00'00"E 55.00"

N45°23'34"W 296.30(T)(COSE)

1.47 ACE

(PRSE, PUE, EVAE)
N45°00'00"W 258,39'(T)

STREET B

t

_ — _ _ _.N45°00°00"W 285.75'(7)

N45°23'34"W 488.00(T)

CAMPUS DRIVE

L13
Li4

Li6

(PUBLIC STREET)

NO118'38"W
N48°38'31"'W

NI73111°E

N73'42'42°W | 11.22°

N45‘23'34"W 488.00'(M—M)

“S_N36'26°E 40.00"

PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SOUTH

BEING A SUBDIVISION CREATING 44 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL LOTS,
AND 6 PARCELS FOR A MAXIMUM OF 112 RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM UNITS
CONSISTING OF 13 SHEETS

BEING A RESUBDIVISION OF LOTS 5 AND 6, AS SAID LOTS ARE SHOWN ON
THE MAP ENTITLED "PENINSULA OFFICE PARK", FILED IN BOOK 78 OF MAPS,
AT PAGE 32, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS
CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

SAN RAMON « (925) 866-0322

ROSEVILLE + (916)788-4456
CIVILENGINEERS =

'WWW.CBANDG.COM
SURVEYORS © PLANNERS
SCALE: 1"= 20'

DECEMBER 2022
o 10 20 40°

GRAPHIC SCALE

NOTES:

1. SEE SHEET 3 FOR BASIS OF BEARINGS
2. SEE SHEET 3 FOR REFERENCES

3, SEE SHEET 3 FOR LEGEND

4, SEE SHEET 3 FOR ADDITIONAL NOTES.

| CURVE TABLE
no | RADIUS | DELTA
43422"

Ct |} 30.00°
C2 | 30.00
C3 | 35.00"
C4 | 2.00"
c5 | 2.00"
C6 | 61.00"
C7 | 61.00"

C8 | 61.00"

334'32"
45°00'00"
90'00'00"
90'00'01"
8'47'30"
21°36'29"
40°47'27"
10°06'28"
103'47"
1°54'08"
26°58'20"

C9 | 74.00"
C10 | 65.00"
CHt | 91.00"
C12 | 25.00

SHEET 6 OF 13

43 of 162


--- page 44 ---
FOUND 1-1/2" IRON PIPE
1” IRON PIPE. TAGGED
"RCE 12300)(1)

PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SOUTH
SEE SHEET 8

BEING A SUBDIVISION CREATING 44 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL LOTS,
AND 6 PARCELS FOR A MAXIMUM OF 112 RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM UNITS
CONSISTING OF 13 SHEETS

>

SEE SHEET 11

22

1,851 SF

PUE
_ J, SEE SHEET 12

N4412'24°E 55.92"

=u

BEING A RESUBDIVISION OF LOTS 5 AND 6, AS SAID LOTS ARE SHOWN ON
THE MAP ENTITLED "PENINSULA OFFICE PARK", FILED IN BOOK 78 OF MAPS,
AT PAGE 32, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS
CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

ROSEVILLE + (916)788-4456

CIVILENGINEERS «© SURVEYORS
SCALE: 1"= 20'

nN
ba
a
ro)

Tosost=9  O000¥
Si
\ 00%

a

N
25.4959)

SUsA97N

PARCEL A
(18 CONDOMINIUM UNITS)
0.91 ACE

LS

67.20.08

SAN RAMON «= = (925) 866-0322

780
vy Lad

cyas NM.

eO26N
"3nd '3S¥d)
FOV

(avaa

* PLANNERS
DECEMBER 2022

“0 810 20 40' 80'

GRAPHIC SCALE

21

1,625 SF+

SEE SHEET 11
NAM 0911" 54.94"

N37'56'31"E(R
78 M 32

1 wl
(avert
(ycec'sv¥

L6

(4S00)(1). S97!

N45'00'00"E _ 196.38"

PUE #2

286 SF4

NAS49'OS"W
25.00'

1,585 SF+

N4412'53"E 54.05"

?\_PUE #22 |
SEE SHEET 12

L-20° cose —!
19 |

NOTES:

SEE SHEET 3 FOR BASIS OF BEARINGS
SEE SHEET 3 FOR REFERENCES

SEE SHEET 3 FOR LEGEND

SEE SHEET 3 FOR ADDITIONAL NOTES.

1,579 SF+

N45‘00'00"W
18.50" |
45°00'00"W

N4500°00"E

19.36"

ar

TOT WsDdOOE tna

j 1,590 SF
0.84 ACE
(PRSE, PUE, EVAE)

139.45'(COSE)

=!
SI
Sic
Ble
als
B
2|

N45‘23'34"W__ 148.22"

N4412'52"E 54,79"

PARCEL B

(24 CONDOMINIUM UNITS)
1.39 ACE

UNE TABLE
NO | BEARING | LENGTH
N43'45°08"W | 1.76"
N70°44'51"E Pinas’ |
N17'37°03"E | 11.18"

N45'49'03"W | 8.39"

(PUBLIC STREET)

CAMPUS DRIVE

N45°23'34"W 488.00'(T)

N45'49'03"W | 0.37" CURVE TABLE
N49°45'06"W | 26.32' RADIUS | DELTA
N53"46'30"W | 19.71" 2.00° | 90°00'00"

N44'36'26"E | 883° }(COSE) 2.00"

CURVE TABLE
RADIUS | DELTA

N45'23'34"W 488.00'(M-M)

217.00' | 2'03'55"
10.00" | 116°33'44"

15 ; 5’ PUE

4 PER (1)
90'00'00" Xp, 11605 SF /

R Or
naano's7%e | 21.00" |(Pue) 15.00° | 88%45'08" 35.00' | 1826'16"

ts 7
N45'32'59"W | 14.00" |(PUE) 191.00" | 0'46'13" 61.00" | 52434" (18 CONDOMINIUM UNITS)
LS 1.72 ACE
N45'00'00°E | 20.00" |(PUE) 61427" 217.00" | ovn'tt” 7  g
Li2 | NSz03'29"w | 3.87" |(PuE) 87.00' | 14'45'13°

207.00 | 1'52'44" | 7.12’
L13 | N45"49'03"W | 0.41" |(PUE) 113.00" | 14°45'13"

L14 | Noo‘00'00"W | 0.31

a
10'x10" PUE
PER (1

113.00' | ozz" | 208° |

113,00' | 61427"

86.97 | 614'35" | 9.48"

JOB NO. 3342-00

SHEET 7 OF 13

44 of 162


--- page 45 ---
JOB NO. 3342-00

FOUND 1-1/2" IRON PIPE A LINE TABLE UNE TABLE
WH ILLEGIBLE TAG >
(RON PRE TAGGED ¢ N NO] BEARING | LENGTH NO | BEARING | LENGTH
RCE 12300)(1) NL ate N\ Li | Noot6'9"E | 2.84 L7 | N64'41'56"W | 26.37" |(COSE)
‘nan s
N16%56'09"W(R) YN S& . L2 | Noote'19’e | 3.50" LB | Ne4'41'se"W | 9.94° |(COSE)
~1/2" IRON PIPI *58'15"W(R) > vam , Sam .
ve x = [ROM Pe N12°5815"W(R) x & \ | L3 | N44'30'S1"E | 10.49" [(COSE) | L9 [.Nas'29'22"W | 20.18 (COSE)
1” IRON PIPE TAGGED / 4 Ayn : Raa" 5
"RCE 12300)(1) LS . wa RN & . L4 | Not'34'47"W | 11.01" {(COSE) | L10 | No5‘05'43"E | 4,00" |(COSE)
NC SH L5 | Ne7'32'41"w | 5.97° |(COSE) N39'42'27"W | 10.13' |(PUE)
mS re | En 5 sania ,
ON 8 > \ U6 | N73°53'50"W | 44.24" \(cosE) N45'00'00"E | 15.00° |(PUE)
& \Y ‘
RON N UNE TABLE
~
¥9> » NO | BEARING | LENGTH
INN y a N N45‘00'00"W | 4.36" |(PUE)
Vv “ N63"32'20"E | 15.00" |(PUE)
& UU N4507'25°E | 6.00' |(TIE)
SAS S OC NAN \
VE LM Se CURVE. TABLE
. So’ ae
Sal A> O* R, no | raps | DELTA
Sie DE
Ee SS map G, % Ct | 75.00° | 2"1'08"
I< Rye) Nw 3
6 é vA 2 Fe a ez ztanh
iz S 8 f a %&, c2 | 75.00° | 19°37'36
i ty S \) B% C3 | 113.00° | 13°42'52”
le-6' COSE iS oy NS &.% a
PUE#I Noe oe Ve C4 | 417.50" | 0°49'25”
wet 1S IBN NON \ Cn @) ! 49"
ol | Ac C5 } 33.00 | 457619
a oo oT
Egg 8 C6 | 400.00" | 22°09'07"
< [s) TT
Bale c7 | 33.00° | 18°32'20"
3 81a
PE)
25 . 3
= B 8
8 8 78 M 32
= =
7 sl 8
sl FS)
wo wo
78 M 32 3 2
I
|
!
|
t
|
ke
Be
\ ae
| aie
| (18 CONDOMINIUM UNITS) aly
0.91 ACE \e
‘Be.
| \
| x % : SF
4 248
eg S\ “QA
| SEE SHEET 13 \ Bd “vn
| a %, 7
! \aA\ ©
| \ a
ey
aac Ha re GES | aan P 1,785 SF Z
5) ae
"RCE 12300)(1) n= 3 z« 4, lg, SEE SHEET 12 3 \ g we
I, Hes 85 2 oe ()
si > . a\
& is ~ ale 6. EA 4029 \
ray Ie, ONe, co) Nee"
rys/ s PUE
v Ye / ¥ SEE SHEET 7 \ SEE SHEET 11 22
d \

PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SOUTH

BEING A SUBDIVISION CREATING 44 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL LOTS,
AND 6 PARCELS FOR A MAXIMUM OF 112 RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM UNITS
CONSISTING OF 13 SHEETS

BEING A RESUBDIVISION OF LOTS 5 AND 6, AS SAID LOTS ARE SHOWN ON
THE MAP ENTITLED "PENINSULA OFFICE PARK", FILED IN BOOK 78 OF MAPS,
AT PAGE 32, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS
CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

CIVILENGINEERS © SURVEYORS * PLANNERS
SCALE: 1"= 20' | DECEMBER 2022

20' o 10 20 40' 80"

ee

GRAPHIC SCALE

SAN RAMON) = (925) 866-0322
ROSEVILLE = (916)788-4456
WWW.CBANDG.COM

NOTES:

1, SEE SHEET 3 FOR BASIS OF BEARINGS
2. SEE SHEET 3 FOR REFERENCES

3. SEE SHEET 3 FOR LEGEND

4, SEE SHEET 3 FOR ADDITIONAL NOTES.

SHEET 8 OF 13

45 of 162


--- page 46 ---
ae)
[ou
“3
4
=
oO
we

FOUND
1” IRON

SEE SHEET 5

N45'00'00"E_98.73'

N3074°17°E(R
N45'00'00"E 83.25"
19.14" 122 S.a8 44,22"

255 SF£

27

2,132 SF

28

1,636 SF+

N45°00'00"W 60,95"

29 PUE
SEE SHEET 11 \ ¢

1,950 SF+

1" IRON PIPE
PIPE TAGGED

"RCE 12300)(1)

JOB NO. 3342-00

PARCEL E
(28 CONDOMINIUM UNITS)
116 ACE

45°00°00"W
46.97

=
L=15.90 .
A=tyooso—

NASO'OO"E 145.68

STREET B
1.47 AC
(PRSE, PUE, EVAE)

_N4500'00"E 143,59"

* R=66.00
N59'00'49"W(R

N58'36'20"W(R

SEE SHEET 13

N45°00'00"E 165.45"

PARCEL F

(8 CONDOMINIUM UNITS)
0.76 ACE

145.09'

ERT
L=2t6r
JE #16.

SEE SHEET 11

W 152.39"

SEE SHEET 10

N44°59°59"

PUE
SEE SHEET 13 -

STREET B

1.47 ACE
(PRSE, PUE, EVAE)

N45°00'00"E_ 116

PUI

1,697 SF
UE #30.
SEE SHEET 13

N4500'00"W 31.23"

N45‘00'00"E 54.36"

N45°00'00"W 53.66’

~
~
~
~
sf
~
~~
§
*
S

52"

116.52' 29.28

3] ig] SEE SHEET 13

32

1,571 SF

N4500'00"W 53.66"

29.25'

E
SEE SHEET 11

33

1,570 SF

N45‘00'00"W 53.66’

N45'00'00"E 205.83'(T)

-

Regi.00. o-

[as |

[ony
i

PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SOUTH

BEING A SUBDIVISION CREATING 44 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL LOTS,
AND 6 PARCELS FOR A MAXIMUM OF 112 RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM UNITS
CONSISTING OF 13 SHEETS

BEING A RESUBDIVISION OF LOTS 5 AND 6, AS SAID LOTS ARE SHOWN ON
THE MAP ENTITLED "PENINSULA OFFICE PARK", FILED IN BOOK 78 OF MAPS,
AT PAGE 32, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS
CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

SAN RAMON « (925) 866-0322

ROSEVILLE = (916)788-4456
CIVILENGINEERS *

‘WWW.CBANDG.COM
SURVEYORS «* PLANNERS
SCALE: I"= 20'

DECEMBER 2022
20' q 10 20 40'
GRAPHIC SCALE
NOTES:

SEE SHEET 3 FOR BASIS OF BEARINGS
SEE SHEET 3 FOR REFERENCES

SEE SHEET 3 FOR LEGEND

SEE SHEET 3 FOR ADDITIONAL NOTES.

CURVE TABLE CURVE TABLE

RADIUS | DELTA | tenet RADIUS | DELTA
93.97' | 15°39'00" | 25.67"

28°48'44" | 18.10" 2.00"

2.00° | 81°40'04"

6257°04"

2417°08" } 25.86" 100.00' | 16°00'53"
0°42'58” 25.78' | 28°50'54”
38112'35" 66.00° | 24°06'51"
21'52'30"

72°40'53" 56.00"

5'56'57"

5'56'57"

LINE TABLE

BEARING | LENGTH
N45‘00'00"E | 52.67°
N45'00'00"W | 4.80"
N45:00'00"W | 53.44"
N6219'07"W | 6.44"

LINE. TABLE |
BEARING | LENGTH

NO346'19"W | 18.23' |(PUE)
N44°59'58"W | 20.08"
N45'00'02"E | 26.00’
N44°59'58"W | 20.00"
S71'45'51"W | 27.86"
$25°08'42"E | 16.24"
N45°00'00"E | 22.11”
$44°59'34"E | 4.00
| S450026"H 7.04
S4500'00E | 3.19"
$45'00'30°W
$45°00'00"E

N62'19'07"W | 22.00"

NO1'06'59"E | 9.50"

N5414'47°E

LB | N6219'07"°W

Lo | N6219'07"W
N54°49'39°E
NO0'37'58"E
N45'00'00"E
N27°40'53"E
N62"19'07"W

$45°00'00"W
N45°00'00"W

13° COSE

207.62(1)(COSE)

208.00'(T)
N45°00'00"E 348.37(T)

No3‘16'19"W

SHEET 9 OF 13

46 of 162


--- page 47 ---
SEE SHEET 6

N

42
|
| =___N45'00'00"E_ 55.00"
lu !
4 UE A
a SEE SHEET 11
es _ 4I
te e
ele 5 1,613 SF+
S
Ole 8
~ 8 = N45‘00'00°E 55.00"
> 3 PARCELD bm
= o >
eS le (18 conoountu UNITS) 8 Ee ae . SEE SHEET 11
-ul a
[x = me BAS 1,605 SF
isa] &
a | E -
\ s N45'00'00"E_55.00'
5 ;
l = =
a = SEE SHEET 11
' | 8 39
A He
9 wr ws «8 R 1,613 SFE
iS
<t SEE SHEET 13. “\_T /J
am 4 N45‘00'00°F _ 55.00"
_ is \PUEA
r 7 wer Le SEE SHEET 11
-_ re _-= . .
N45°00'00°E 177.76(T) R= ® 2 38
STREET B — eS
1.47 ACE ‘ant :
(pase, PUE, EVA) N45'00'00"E 55.00"
N45°00'00"E 52.67" - SEE SHEET 11
oxP B 37
\ 3
+ nN 1,613 SF+
8 le santa .
3 218 N45'00'00°E_55.00'
3; |)
332} 34 $I. PUEA
3] ism srt z18 yo SE SHEET T
8 818 < 36
8 3 \5 3
gz 7 1,858 SFL

JOB NO. 3342-00

UE.
SEE SHEET 13
2

207.62'(T)(COSE)

SEE SHEET 13
55.00"

L
_!

(8 CONDOMINIUM UNITS)

208.00'(T) 0.76 ACE

N45‘00'00'E 348.37(T)
(350.00')(1)

PARCEL A
78 M 32

7 COSE

29.18"

29.33"

29.18"

29.33"

PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SOUTH

BEING A SUBDIVISION CREATING 44 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL LOTS,

5° PUE
PER (1)

N45°23'34°W 488,00(T)

33,78"

LINE TABLE CURVE TABLE
wo [Beane | LENGTH F No | RADIUS

ut | nesz3to'w | 7.83"

2 757

N44°36'26"E 32.50"

FOUND 1-1/2" IRON PIPE WITH PLUG
AND TACK AND ILLEGIBLE TAG
(1" IRON PIPE TAGGED "RCE 12300)(1)

10'x10" PUE

\ PER (1
4
=)

\- ‘S,
\

1
\
| ux

So 1
STA Se 4-a9 nn .
\ BPS '10"_ 1195.29
SHE
\ WENT FOR WATER PIP PARCEL D
EASEMENT FOR W 18 CONDOMINIUM UN

[LINES AND PUBLIC UTILITIES {16 0 172 AGE in)

Sl PER 6061 OR. 439 .

3

=

b

N47°48

20°

N45‘23'34"W 488.00°(M—M)

AND 6 PARCELS FOR A MAXIMUM OF 112 RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM UNITS

CONSISTING OF 13 SHEETS

BEING A RESUBDIVISION OF LOTS 5 AND 6, AS SAID LOTS ARE SHOWN ON
THE MAP ENTITLED "PENINSULA OFFICE PARK", FILED IN BOOK 78 OF MAPS,

AT PAGE 32, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS
CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

SAN RAMON) = (925) 866-0322
cb ROSEVILLE = (916)788-4456
WWW.CBANDG.COM

CIVILENGINEERS «* SURVEYORS * PLANNERS

SCALE: 1"= 20' DECEMBER 2022
0 ‘0 20' 40 80'
GRAPHIC SCALE

NOTES:

1, SEE SHEET 3 FOR BASIS OF BEARINGS
2, SEE SHEET 3 FOR REFERENCES

3, SEE SHEET 3 FOR LEGEND

4, SEE SHEET 3 FOR ADDITIONAL NOTES.

N44'36'26"E 40.00

C4

103.16(PAE)
140.37

FOUND 1" IRON PIPE
7” IRON PIPE TAGGED
RCE 12300)(1)

PARCEL B
q
N43'38'54"E_ 200.85" 78 M 32
28 (EMERGENCY
ig (N43°38'54"E 71.18')(1) ACCESS ROAD)
Is
i

N43°38'54"E_ 71.06"

SHEET 10 OF 13

47 of 162


--- page 48 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SOUTH

CURVE TABLE BEING A SUBDIVISION CREATING 44 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL LOTS,
RADIUS | DELTA. | LENGTH AND 6 PARCELS FOR A MAXIMUM OF 112 RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM UNITS
CONSISTING OF 13 SHEETS

77.36 | 5100'35" | 6.76

sar | snaas" | aay BEING A RESUBDIVISION OF LOTS 5 AND 6, AS SAID LOTS ARE SHOWN ON
THE MAP ENTITLED "PENINSULA OFFICE PARK®, FILED IN BOOK 78 OF MAPS,

76.00' | 23236" | 337 AT PAGE 32, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS

aur | essa | Jor CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

7 oTer . SAN RAMON = (925) 866-0322
61.00" | 34854" | 4.08 | Cc b g ROSEVILLE » (916)788-4456
61.06 | 5°51'06" 6.24 WWW.CBANDG.COM

PUE #10 200° | s000'o0" | CIVILENGINEERS = SURVEYORS «© PLANNERS

2 St SCALE: NTS DECEMBER 2022
TYPICAL PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT TYPICAL PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT TYPICAL PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT NOT 10 SCALE sor | ase | ar
NOT TO SCALE NOT TO SCALE NOT TO SCALE -

NOTE; REAR EASEMENT LINE BEING NOTE; REAR EASEMENT LINE BEING
PARALLEL WITH AND 5’ DISTANT FROM = PARALLEL WITH AND 6.3° DISTANT
THE FRONT EASEMENT LINE FROM THE FRONT EASEMENT LINE

PARCEL C

N45°00°00"W 7.56”

305 SF+

N45‘00°00"W 16.80"
N45"00'00"W 6.58"

NASOZTW 7.33"

“N45°00°00"W 9.00"

—— —--+— 4
N45‘00'00"E 7.00" N45°00'00"E 6.00"

9

N45°00'00"W 12.60"

oe
x
a
=
é

r=}
2
ia)
9
2

PARCEL B

4
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|

IB

PUE #12 PUE #14

NOT TO SCALE NOT TO SCALE NOT TO SCALE NOT TO SCALE

UNE TABLE UNE TABLE

BEARING | LENGTH NO | BEARING } LENGTH
N45'00'00"E | 7.00" L12 | N45‘00'00"W | 4.66"
N45'05'02"W | 3.30 U3 | N4500'00"E | 6.24"

PARCEL D wasto'o0’e | 300° | | 14 | nasroo'oo'w | 3.00"

N45'05'02"W | 6.30° L15 | N4500°00"E | 2.30"

PARCEL D

N45‘00'00"W 13.85'

PARCEL E

208 SF X | N44°27'42"E | 3.25' L16 | N45'00'00"W | 7.00"

N45'05'02"W | 3.39 L17 | N45°00'00"E | 4.00"
N45'00'00"E | 3.00" L18 | N45‘00'00"W | 8.13
N45'00'00"W | 5.00"

172 SF

N45'00'00"E 21.00"
N45'00'00"E | 2.00"

N45°00'00"W | 2.00"
N45'00'00"E 10.00" N45'00'00"E | 3.99"

PUE #16 PUE #17

NOT TO SCALE NOT TO SCALE NOT TO SCALE NOT TO SCALE

JOB NO. 3342-00 SHEET 11 OF 13

48 of 162


--- page 49 ---
PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SOUTH

BEING A SUBDIVISION CREATING 44 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL LOTS,
AND 6 PARCELS FOR A MAXIMUM OF 112 RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM UNITS
CONSISTING OF 13 SHEETS

N44°51'28"E 15.38"

ed

BEING A RESUBDIVISION OF LOTS 5 AND 6, AS SAID LOTS ARE SHOWN ON
THE MAP ENTITLED "PENINSULA OFFICE PARK", FILED IN BOOK 78 OF MAPS,
AT PAGE 32, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS
CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

&
cn ‘
\ SAN RAMON) « (825) 866-0322
7 ROSEVILLE «® (916)788-4456
992 SF+
Vv WWW.CBANDG.COM

CIVILENGINEERS * SURVEYORS «© PLANNERS
SCALE; NTS DECEMBER 2022

N45°23'34"W_20.00"

PUE #19 PUE #20

NOT TO SCALE NOT TO SCALE

PARCEL B

N45'00'00°E 17.37"

PARCEL B

238 SFL

8
8
Fo
=
S
s
®
2
z

PARCEL B
PARCEL A

PUE #21 PUE #23 PUE #24 PUE #25

NOT TO SCALE NOT TO SCALE NOT TO SCALE NOT TO SCALE NOT TO SCALE

UNE TABLE UNE TABLE UNE TABLE LINE TABLE UNE TABLE CURVE TABLE
BEARING | LENGTH BEARING | LENGTH BEARING BEARING DELTA LENGTH |
N88°03'21°W | 6.59" N45°49'03"W | 5.50" N4442'53"E N45‘00'00"E "48'43" A 510'26" | 5.51”
NO156'39"E | 16.34" N45'49'03"W | 5.50" N52'03'29"W N43°45'08"W 2 | N25°27'11"E ; A 51307" | 5.56"
} oj} jj
N44°51'28"E | 7.61" N44°12'53°E | 3.00" N52°03'29"W N64°32'49°W | L43 | N25°27°11"E a . 15244" | 3.71
N89°58'29"E | 4.03" N45'49'03"W | 2.50 N4442'24E N25°27'11°E
Noo'o1'31"w | 2.50° N4412'53°E | 3.30" 125 | N45'47'36"W N64°32'49"W

N89°58'29"E | 2.00° N45°49'03°W | 3.00" L26 | N44%2'24°E N64'32'49°W
Noo'or’31"W | 3.00" N45'49'03"W | 3.00" (27 | N45‘47'36"W N25°2711°E

NoO'O'31"W | 5.50" N4442'53"E | 250° L28 | N45‘47'36"W N64°32'49"W
N89°58'29"E | 7.07" N45°49'03"W | 2.50" L29 | N4442'51°E N25'27'11"E

N89°58'29"E | 6.30" N44112'53"E | 3.80" N44%12'24"E N66"48'43°W

JOB NO. 3342-00 SHEET 12 OF 13

49 of 162



--- page 50 ---
MSE or PENINSULA HEIGHTS - SOUTH

BEING A SUBDIVISION CREATING 44 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL LOTS,
AND 6 PARCELS FOR A MAXIMUM OF 112 RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM UNITS
CONSISTING OF 13 SHEETS

N45‘00°00"W 8.64"
N45°00°00"W 7.07"

112 SF CURVE TABLE BEING A RESUBDIVISION OF LOTS 5 AND 6, AS SAID LOTS ARE SHOWN ON
nol raous]) beta] nomi ‘THE MAP ENTITLED "PENINSULA OFFICE PARK", FILED IN BOOK 78 OF MAPS,
PARCEL J AT PAGE 32, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS

E Cl | 75.00° | 6°49'35" | 8.94" CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

211'08" | 2.86" SAN RAMON = (925) 866-0322
| t+ cb ROSEVILLE = (916)768-4456
42,.29' | 4°20'53" | 3.21" WWW.CBANDG.COM

37.00' | 0°58'44" CIVILENGINEERS = SURVEYORS = PLANNERS
SCALE: NTS DECEMBER 2022

“Ww

24°36"
6.30"

N39"2.

37.00' | 5°56'57"

30.00' | 11°44'54"
30.01" | 125705”
30.00° | 20°55'47"

PUE #27

NOT TO SCALE NOT TO SCALE NOT 70 SCALE

UNE TABLE UNE TABLE UNE TABLE
BEARING | LENGTH NO | sexe NO BEARING
N45'00'00"W |} 2.93" L14 | N45'00'00"E L27 | N45'00'00"E
N64°51'08°W L15 | N45‘00'00"W L28 | N45'00'00"W
N26°05'43°E L16 | N45'00'00"E N45°00'00°E

N45'00'00"E 7.43" N231117°E LI7 | N45‘00'00"W N45'00°00"W
N2311°17°E N45'00'00"E N44°59'30"W

N45'00'00"E N45'00'00"W N45'00'00°E

N45°00'00"E N45'00'00"W N4500'00"E

wo
=
3
=
F

fo]
8
3
a
g
=

N45°00'00"E N45°00'00"E N45°00'00"W

PARCEL F

N45°00'00"E N45'00'00"W N45°00'00"E

N44°59'58"W 14.00"

N45°00'00"W 14.00°

N45'00'00"W ‘23 F NA4sr00'00"W N45'00'00"W

N45'00'00"E 124 | N45‘00'00"W ’ N45"00'00"E

L12 | N45‘00'00"E L25 | N45°00'00"E N45'00'00"W

L13 | N45'00'00"W L26 | N45°00'00"W N45°00'00"E
SS

|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
I
|
|
|
I
J

N45‘00’00"W 9.49'

~"N45'00'00"E 20.98"

PUE #29 . PUE #31

NOT TO SCALE NOT TO SCALE NOT TO SCALE

PARCEL F PARCEL F

N45°00'00"E_8.50° N45°00'00"E 10.00"

N45'00'00"E 20.00"

N45'00'00"W 6.46"
w
a

151 SFE

N45°00'00"W 7.57"

N45'00'00"E_ 20.00 4
N45'00'00"E 6.30"

PUE #32 PUE #34 PUE #36

NOT TO SCALE NOT TO SCALE NOT TO SCALE NOT TO SCALE NOT TO SCALE

N45'00'00"E 10.007
08

JOB NO, 3342-00 SHEET 13 OF 13

50 of 162


--- page 51 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 14-1311
File ID: 25-9851
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
May 5, 2025
SUBJECT:
Downtown Business Improvement Area – Approval 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution of Intent to Levy the Annual Assessments for the Downtown Business Improvement Area for fiscal year 
2025-26; accept the fiscal year 2024-25 Downtown San Mateo Association Annual Report; and set a public hearing for the 
May 19, 2025, City Council meeting for the annual levy.
BACKGROUND:
The Downtown Business Improvement Area (DBIA) was formed in 1986 for the purpose of improving Downtown San 
Mateo and promoting businesses within the area. The Downtown San Mateo Association (DSMA) has served as the DBIA 
administrator since its formation. Annually, the DSMA provides the City Council with a report of activities and expenditures 
for the previous fiscal year and proposes an assessment schedule for the upcoming fiscal year, as required by the California 
Street and Highways Code Section 36533. 
In April 2025, the DSMA submitted its annual report, incorporating a summary of fiscal year 2024-25 activities and 
proposed program and budget for fiscal year 2025-26 (included as Attachment 2). Before City Council may act on the 
DSMA’s request to renew the DBIA assessments, the request must be considered at two City Council meetings. At the first 
meeting on May 5, 2025, the City Council is asked to accept the DSMA’s annual report and adopt a Resolution of Intent to 
Levy the Annual Assessment (included as Attachment 1). At the second meeting on May 19, 2025, the City Council 
conducts a public hearing on the proposed assessment schedule and considers adoption. 
The DSMA continues to strengthen its role as a champion for Downtown businesses and the community. In 2022, the City 
Council approved a modification to the business assessments—the first since 2009. The updated assessment formula 
improved equity among Downtown businesses and enabled the DSMA to expand its operations and better support the 
district. With increased assessments, the DSMA was able to hire Executive Director Mackenzie Jakoubek in July 2023. With 
an Executive Director in place, the DSMA was able to better collaborate with the City Manager’s Office, Parks and 
Recreation, Self-Help for the Elderly, B Street Boosters, the San Mateo Chamber of Commerce, and Downtown businesses 
to bring more energy, events, and resources to Downtown.
Key Accomplishments, 2024–2025:
•
More than 74 Downtown merchants directly participated in DSMA events
•
14 pop-up community events (a 27 percent increase year over year)
•
$95K allocated for Downtown clean-up efforts
•
Social media activity increased by 17 percent on Facebook and 41 percent on Instagram
•
Hosted the first-ever Boba Day, drawing over 5,000 attendees
51 of 162

--- page 52 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
Restarted a Lunar New Year celebration, attracting hundreds of visitors to downtown businesses
•
Launched Headwest Marketplace, a monthly event held on the pedestrian mall
Financial Overview: 
The DSMA anticipates generating approximately $355,000 in DBIA assessments, sponsorships, and partnership funds for FY 
2025–26, aligning with its projected expenditures. While payroll is expected to remain flat, modest cost increases are 
anticipated for Downtown cleanup, marketing, professional services, banners, and events due to inflation and rising costs. 
Looking ahead, the DSMA is exploring opportunities to expand revenue in FY 2026–27. Additionally, the DSMA maintains a 
money market account with $240,000 in reserves, set aside for emergency use. 
Next Steps 
After the Council adopts the Resolution of Intent to Levy the Annual Assessments (Attachment 1), a notice will be 
published in the newspaper announcing the public hearing for no less than seven days prior to the meeting on May 19, 
2025.
According to Streets and Highways Code Section 36535, if written protests are submitted by business owners in the DBIA, 
and these protests collectively represent 50 percent or more of the proposed assessments, no additional actions to impose 
the assessments will occur for a period of one year. Any written protests received will be provided at the May 19, 2025 
Council meeting. 
At the May 19th public hearing, Mackenzie Jakoubek, Executive Director of the DSMA, will provide an overview of DSMA’s 
accomplishments and will be available to address any questions from the City Council and the public prior to Council 
consideration of levying the assessment for the next fiscal year.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The levying of the annual DBIA assessment does not have an impact on the General Fund. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met. As required by the California Streets and Highways Code Section 36534, a 
notice shall be provided in the local newspaper no less than seven (7) days prior to the May 19, 2025 City Council public 
hearing. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution of Intent
Att 2 – DSMA Annual Report for Fiscal Year 2024-25
STAFF CONTACT
Jennifer Chen, Economic Development Manager
jchen@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7009
52 of 162

--- page 53 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO.
(2025)
ACCEPTING THE 2024-2025 DOWNTOWN BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT AREA (DBIA) ANNUAL REPORT, ADOPTING 
A RESOLUTION OF INTENTION TO LEVY THE ANNUAL DBIA ASSESSMENT FOR 2025-2026,
AND SETTING THE PUBLIC HEARING
WHEREAS, Streets and Highways Code Section 36533 (Parking and Business Improvement Area Law of 
1989) requires the City Council to approve an annual report specifying: (1) the improvements and activities to 
be provided for that fiscal year; (2) an estimate of the cost of providing the improvements and the activities 
for that fiscal year; and other information required by Section 36533; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 36534 of the Streets and Highways Code, after approving the annual 
report, the City Council is authorized to issue a resolution of intention to levy an assessment for the 2025-
2026 fiscal year; and
WHEREAS, the City Council has received and reviewed the annual report submitted by the Downtown 
San Mateo Association and hereby confirms said Association as the advisory board for the DBIA.
NOW, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY DETERMINES AND 
RESOLVES that:
1.
Accepting the DBIA Annual Report and adopting a Resolution of Intent to Levy the Annual 
DBIA Assessment is exempt from California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requirements because 
it is an administrative activity that will not have a significant effect on the environment per CEQA 
Guidelines section 15378(b)(5)).
2.
The City Council approves the Downtown San Mateo Association Fiscal Year 2024-25 Annual 
Report filed by the Downtown San Mateo Association with the City Clerk and declares its intention to 
levy and collect assessments for the Downtown Business Improvement Area for the Fiscal Year 2025-
2026 set forth in Exhibit A attached to this Resolution.
3.
The proposed improvements and activities are generally characterized as those activities set 
forth in Streets and Highways Code Section 36513, including but not limited to: street cleaning, 
promotion of public events, marketing activities which benefit businesses, decorations, and 
administrative expenses, including salary, rent, and similar expenditures. The annual report on file with 
the City Clerk provides a full and detailed description of proposed expenditures and activities, provides 
the boundaries and zones of benefit of the DBIA, and designates the proposed assessments. A map of 
the business district boundaries is set forth in Exhibit B attached to this Resolution.
4.
A public hearing is hereby scheduled for Monday, May 19, 2025, at City Hall, 330 West 20th 
Avenue, San Mateo at 7:00 p.m. or as soon thereafter as the matter may be heard. In accordance 
with Streets and Highways Code section 36534, the City Clerk is directed to publish this, once in a 
newspaper of general circulation in the City not less than seven days before the public hearing. Oral 
and written protests in compliance with Sections 36524 and 36525 of the Streets and Highways 
Code may be made at the public hearing.
53 of 162

--- page 54 ---
Resolution No. 
(2025)
DBIA Intent to Levy Annual Renewal
Exhibit A
Proposed Annual Assessment Schedule FY 2025-2026
Retail (Based on Annual Gross Receipts)
Annual Gross Revenue
Proposed 2025-26
Previous 2024-25
Zone 1
Zone 2
Zone 1
Zone 2
$0 - $150,000
$200
$100
$200
$100
$150,001 - $400,000
$400
$200
$400
$200
$400,001-$600,000
$800
$400
$800
$400
$600,001-$1,000,000
$1,150
$575
$1,150
$575
$1,000,000+
$1,500
$750
$1,500
$750
Professional (based on number of employees)
Category
Proposed 2025-26
Previous 2024-25
Number Of Employees
Zone 1
Zone 2
Zone 1
Zone 2
Sole Proprietor, 
No employees
$200
$100
$200
$100
1 to 5 Employees
$550
$275
$550
$275
6-15 Employees
$1,000
$500
$1,000
$500
16-35 Employees
$2,300
$1,150
$2,300
$1,150
36-75 Employees
$3,050
$1,525
$3,050
$1,525
76+ Employees 1, 2
$3,050
$1,525
$3,050
$1,525
Service (based on number of employees)
Category
Proposed 2025-26
Previous 2024-25
Number Of Employees
Zone 1
Zone 2
Zone 1
Zone 2
Sole Proprietor, 
No employees
$200
$100
$200
$100
1 to 5 Employees
$400
$200
$400
$200
6-15 Employees
$800
$400
$800
$400
16-35 Employees
$1,700
850
$1,700
$850
36-75 Employees
$2,300
$1,150
$2,300
$1,150
76+ Employees 3, 4
$2,300
$1,150
$2,300
$1,150
Financial (flat rate)
Category
Proposed 2025-26
Previous 2024-25
Zone 1
Zone 2
Zone 1
Zone 2
Financial
$1,500
$775
$1,500
$775
See footnote for 1,2,3,4
54 of 162

--- page 55 ---
Resolution No. 
(2025)
DBIA Intent to Levy Annual Renewal
Proposed Annual Assessment Schedule FY 2025-2026 (Continued)
Retail businesses include but is not limited to businesses that have goods and foods for sale including 
automotive vehicles and parts dealers, home furnishing stores, jewelers, electronics and appliance 
stores, building material and garden equipment and supplies dealers, food and beverage stores, full- 
serve restaurants, limited services restaurants, fast food restaurants, cafeterias, dessert and snack 
establishments, bars, gasoline stations, clothing and clothing accessories, sporting goods, hobby stores, 
music instruments, book stores, general merchandise store, wireless phone stores and similar.
Professional businesses include but is not limited to businesses that offer services that are highly 
specialized and typically require licensing and regulations. Professional service providers and 
information-based businesses such as software publishers, data processing, network hosting and related 
services, internet publishing and broadcasting and web search portals, venture capital, insurance 
agencies and brokerage, real estate agents and brokers, offices of lawyers, accounting, architectural, 
engineering advertising, translation and interpretation services, veterinary services, offices of physicians, 
offices of dentists, other health practitioners, and similar.
All businesses classified as Professional shall pay an annual assessment based on the number of full- 
time equivalency employees.
Sole Proprietor is defined as a self-employed individual who works for themselves without hiring any 
employees.
Service businesses include but is not limited to providers of personal and business services such as hair 
salons, nail salons, lock smiths, dry cleaners, auto service and maintenance shops, gyms, vacuum repair 
shops, educational, childcare, electronic equipment repair, personal care services, and similar.
All businesses classified as Service shall pay an annual assessment based on the number of full-time 
equivalency employees.
Financial businesses include but not limited to businesses in the financial industry such as money 
management, payments, digital banking, banks, savings and loan companies, credit unions, finance 
companies, and similar.
All businesses classified as Financial shall pay a flat annual assessment.
For Professional and Service businesses, the number of employees shall be determined based on Full 
Time Equivalent of 40 hours a week as reported on the initial business license application and updated 
thereafter during the annual business license renewal.
Footnote
1 - $3,050 + $14.00 per employee over 75 employees for Zone 1
2- $1,525 + $10.00 per employee over 75 employees for Zone 2
3 - $2,300 + $10.00 per employee over 75 employees for Zone 1
4 - $1,150 + $7.00 per employee over 75 employees for Zone 2
55 of 162

--- page 56 ---
Resolution No. 
(2025)
DBIA Intent to Levy Annual Renewal
Exhibit B
DBIA Boundary Map
Zone 1 – Shaded parcels
Zone 2 --Parcels outlined in black
56 of 162

--- page 57 ---
DOWNTOWN
SAN MATEO
ASSOCIATION
PREPARED BY:
MACKENZIE JAKOUBEK
Executive Director
HQ@DSMA.org / DSMA.org
FISCAL YEAR 2024-25
ANNUAL REPORT
JULY 1, 2024 - JUNE 30, 2025
57 of 162

--- page 58 ---
ACCOMPLISHMENTS 
AT A GLANCE
74+ Downtown
merchants directly
participated in DSMA
sponsored events
14 pop up community
events (3 more than
FY23-24)
Facebook reach
increased by 17%
Instagram reach
increased by 41%
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO
ASSOCIATION SUMMARY 
The Downtown San Mateo Association (DSMA) remains
steadfast in its mission to enhance the attractiveness and
vibrancy of Downtown San Mateo. Since 1986, DSMA has
managed the Downtown Business Improvement District,
providing vital support to local merchants and fostering a
thriving, connected community. Downtown San Mateo is a
center for business and leisure, attracting visitors from
throughout the Bay Area with its history, diverse
community, renowned culinary scene, and strategic
position within Silicon Valley.
This fiscal year, Downtown San Mateo has been livelier
than ever, with busy weekends and strong participation in
community events contributing to a vibrant and dynamic
atmosphere. Under the leadership of the Board of
Directors and Executive Director Mackenzie Jakoubek,
DSMA has strengthened collaboration and community
engagement as core strategies for activating Downtown.
Through partnerships with local organizations and the
coordination of signature events, DSMA has bolstered
Downtown’s visibility and appeal.
Looking ahead to Fiscal Year 2025-26, DSMA will build on
this momentum with expanded marketing initiatives,
activated public spaces, and deeper partnerships.
Strategic investments in cleanliness, beautification, and
business support will ensure that Downtown remains a
welcoming destination. With a thoughtfully allocated
budget and the continued guidance of its dedicated Board
of Directors, DSMA is well-positioned to drive Downtown
San Mateo’s ongoing success.
$95k used for
Downtown clean-up
efforts (9% increase)
MAY 2025
San Mateo On Ice
advertisement
increased visits to
digital restaurant guide
by 20%
130+ Downtown
businesses featured on
Reviewsday Tuesday
Instagram stories
58 of 162

--- page 59 ---
Nestled in the heart of the San Francisco Peninsula, Downtown San Mateo is a place where
history, innovation, and community intersect. With its diverse mix of businesses, vibrant
public spaces, and engaged community, the district continues to evolve while remaining a
welcoming destination for all. At the center of this growth is the Downtown San Mateo
Association (DSMA), committed to fostering a thriving environment for businesses and
visitors alike.
Since 1986, the DSMA has been designated by City Council to manage the Downtown
Business Improvement District. We take pride in supporting our merchants and bringing
people together through events and initiatives that celebrate the unique character of
Downtown San Mateo. As we reflect on the past year, the energy in our district has been
unmistakable, reinforcing the importance of collaboration and thoughtful activation in
keeping Downtown vibrant.
FY 2024-25 ANNUAL REPORT
INTRODUCTION
MAY 2025
2
59 of 162

--- page 60 ---
“Vibrant,” “bustling,” “lively,” and “busy,” were
some of the most popular words used to
describe Downtown San Mateo in a 2024
survey from Revv Up Downtown San Mateo. 
Separately, in a City sponsored survey
conducted by True North Research, 12% of
San Mateo residents rated our Downtown as
what they liked most about living in the City
of San Mateo. (Only 3rd behind our City’s
fantastic parks and the variety of restaurants
and shops.) Compared to one year ago,
Downtown has seen a 19% increase in
visitors just to the B Street Pedestrian Mall.
Over 2 years, the increase has been 121%
(Placer.ai report). 
Thanks to its regionally central location,
Downtown San Mateo is a popular place to
meet for both business and leisure purposes.
Visitors come from San Francisco, Santa
Clara County, the East Bay, and, most often,
nearby Peninsula cities. Downtown is a
foodie’s paradise, with a diverse mix of
restaurants making up more than 20% of
district businesses. It is also an important
node in the Silicon Valley ecosystem as a
home to start-ups, investors, incubators, and
tech-based companies of all sizes. The
presence of Mills-Peninsula Medical Center,
one of the largest employers in our district,
means that Downtown also includes many
medical professionals. While there are some
traditional retailers, the storefronts on most
blocks are dominated by food and drink
purveyors, along with services such as
FY 2024-25 ANNUAL REPORT
DOWNTOWN SAN
MATEO OVERVIEW
salons, fitness studios, and banks. Several
body shops and automotive businesses can
be found east of the railroad tracks.
Like all downtown areas, San Mateo has
encountered challenges in the past year.
There has been a nation-wide trend of
corporate workers returning to the office,
but hybrid work still affects traffic during the
week. Rising costs due to inflation and
supply shortages, such as eggs, have
squeezed bottom lines. Layoffs in the tech
industry have brought about uncertainty,
leading to reduced personal spending.
Another hardship has been the closing of
Downtown favorite, Draeger’s, which has
been a hub of our community for decades. 
Downtown San Mateo grapples with
common challenges for all business
districts. Looking back at the Revv Up
Downtown survey, Downtown visitors
sought improvements in cleanliness, variety
of stores, and available public seating.
Businesses voice discontentment around
rising costs, inconsistent foot traffic,
difficulty finding employees, and other day-
to-day challenges. Despite these obstacles,
the overall Downtown outlook from
businesses and visitors is positive. New
businesses continue to open up in our
district, often citing safety, cleanliness, a
welcoming community, and lively
atmosphere as the main reasons for
selecting Downtown San Mateo.
MAY 2025
3
60 of 162

--- page 61 ---
The Downtown San Mateo Association
(DSMA) continues to strengthen its role as a
champion for Downtown’s businesses and
community. The updated Business
Improvement District (BID) assessments,
approved by City Council in 2022, have
allowed DSMA to expand operations and
better support the district. These resources
remain essential for keeping Downtown
clean, safe, and vibrant while fostering
strong partnerships with the City of San
Mateo and local organizations.
Since joining DSMA in July 2023, Executive
Director Mackenzie Jakoubek has focused
on building relationships, amplifying DSMA’s
presence, and improving operations. DSMA
has prioritized collaboration, working with
San Mateo Parks & Recreation, the City
Manager’s Office, Self-Help for the Elderly,
Age-Friendly San Mateo, B Street Boosters,
the San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce,
and many BID members to bring more
energy, events, and resources to Downtown.
This year also brought changes to DSMA’s
Board of Directors, with two valued
members, Martin Kent and Tyson Mao,
stepping down, and Jillian Thomas, Vice
President of Operations at Mills-Peninsula
Medical Center, joining the board. The
leadership and dedication of the board
continues to guide DSMA’s efforts in
strengthening Downtown. Looking ahead,
DSMA remains committed to expanding
marketing initiatives, activating public
spaces, and fostering a thriving business
environment.
FY 2024-25 ANNUAL REPORT
DSMA OVERVIEW
MAY 2025
4
President, Lew Cohen, B Street Books
Vice President, Colleen Rafferty,
Christensen & Rafferty Fine Jewelry
Treasurer, Cathy Levitt, Tri Counties Bank
Robert Anderson, Downtown Resident and
retired San Mateo PD
Steve Carey, LifeMoves
Lorry Morales, La Pinata
Jillian Thomas, Mills-Peninsula Medical
Center
Joe Sully, Downtown Building Owner
Susan Uzunoglu, Susan’s European Beauty 
Mackenzie Jakoubek, Executive Director,
DSMA 
DSMA BOARD
61 of 162

--- page 62 ---
DSMA activities focus on Community Engagement, BID Member Engagement, and Civic
Partnership.
FY 2024-25 ANNUAL REPORT
DSMA FOCUS AREAS
COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT
Community engagement focuses on coordinating events and marketing. The goal is to drive
traffic Downtown and connect the community with our wonderful and diverse businesses. The
primary audiences for community engagement are Downtown workers, San Mateo and
Peninsula residents, and visitors to local hotels and events.
COMMUNITY EVENTS 
FISCAL YEAR 2024-25
Jazz on B Street 
Jul 13 & Mar 1 with the Naveen
Schwartzkopf Quartet
Aug 30 with Peter Carlozzi
Jan 11 with Swingatto
Mar 29 with the Sizzling Cactuses
B Street Train (August 11): DSMA and
co-sponsors Florian Orthodontics and
CAMedu brought kid-sized fun to
Downtown with the B Street Train. The
first 200 kids got an extra treat of free ice
cream from Cold Stone Creamery. 
North B Street Fiesta (Aug 25): North B
Street merchants welcomed loyal
customers and newcomers to their
annual block party with community
booths, prizes, mariachi music, folkloric
dancing, and more. DSMA sponsored
MAY 2025
5
          
        and helped with coordination and 
        promotion. 
September Nights on B (Sep 7 & 14): A
Downtown San Mateo favorite! DSMA
supported these lively City concerts
through sponsorship, promotion, and
participation. 
62 of 162

--- page 63 ---
FY 2024-25 ANNUAL REPORT
COMMUNITY EVENTS CONT’D
San Mateo Arts & Culture Fest (Sep
28): This day-long event offered a variety
of live music, cultural entertainment, local
arts, and family-friendly activities on B
Street and Baldwin Avenue, presented by
the San Mateo Area Chamber of
Commerce and the San Mateo County
Office of Arts & Culture. DSMA was a
sponsor and assisted with coordination.
This year, DSMA created a scavenger
hunt for kids featuring Mateo the Fox. 
BOOs on B Street & Trick or Treating
(Oct 26): A close collaboration between
the City of San Mateo’s Parks &
Recreation Department and DSMA,
BOOs on B Street welcomed hundreds of
kids to the B Street pedestrian mall to
enjoy carnival games, a creepy-crawly
petting zoo, crafts, a selfie station, and
other Halloween activities. DSMA
coordinated with 42 Downtown
merchants who provided candy to
adorable trick-or-treaters. 
Small Business Saturday & Jazz on B
Street with the Sizzling Cactuses
(Nov 30): Aragon High School jazz trio,
the Sizzling Cactuses, delighted holiday
shoppers and diners on B Street. DSMA
promoted local merchants for national
Small Business Saturday. 
Las Posadas (Dec 7): The merchants of
North B Street welcomed their loyal
customers and Holiday Train visitors to
their storefronts with warm cider, gift
bags, and other treats. Spanish-language
Christmas carolers sang throughout the
block. The event was coordinated by the
North B merchants with DSMA support.
HEAD WEST Marketplace 2024 (Dec 8
& Dec 22): HEAD WEST Marketplace,
with the support of DSMA, brought 50
makers, crafter, artists, and other local
merchants to the pedestrian mall twice
in December. Downtown visitors were
delighted with the added shopping
opportunities in Downtown San Mateo. 
Sounds of the Season 
Dec 8 with Business Casual
Dec 8 with the Chamber Singers
from Hillsdale & San Mateo High
Schools
Dec 20 with the Merrie Olde
Christmas Carolers
MAY 2025
6
63 of 162

--- page 64 ---
HEAD WEST Marketplace 2025 (Mar
16, Apr 20, May 18, Jun 15): Following the
success of HEAD WEST during the
Holidays, DSMA and the HEAD WEST
organization decided to bring the
market back every third Sunday of the
month. These events brought in much
requested diverse retail options to
Downtown. 
Downtown San Mateo Boba Day
(April 27): Downtown San Mateo is lucky
to have a number of outstanding boba
shops in our district. To bring attention
to these businesses, DSMA hosted the
second annual Downtown San Mateo
Boba Day. Businesses were encouraged
to give discounts and samples in order
to gain new customers. DSMA and
supporting partners provided fun
activities on B Street for families and
took votes for “Downtown San Mateo’s
Favorite Boba 2025.”
Mother’s Day pop up (May 11): The first
100 mothers (of all sorts) were given
flowers, and families are encouraged to
use a beautiful floral selfie-wall to
commemorate the special day. Co-
sponsored by Lions Den Shave Parlor. 
FY 2024-25 ANNUAL REPORT
COMMUNITY EVENTS CONT’D
Lunar New Year (Jan 25): Our second
annual Lunar New Year in Downtown
San Mateo provided an opportunity to
welcome the new year with our
community and collaborate with many
local businesses and organizations.
Sponsors and supporters included
Florian Orthodontics, the City of San
Mateo, San Mateo Parks and Recreation
Department, the San Mateo Area
Chamber of Commerce, and Sterling
Bank. Booth participants included Self-
Help for the Elderly, the Asian American
Curriculum Project, and the San Mateo
Public Library. Our Lion Dance parade
stops were Anton Patisserie, MY
Dumpling, Taste of Sha Xian, Tang Bar,
Dough Zone, East West Bank, Shuyi
Grass Jelly & Tea, Cathay Bank, Superstar
Dim Sum, Revolution Hair Studio, and
Fanloli Beauty.
A Kiss and A Song (Feb 14): As a bonus
for celebrating Valentine’s Day in
Downtown San Mateo, DSMA offered lip
print readings and romantic accordion
music. These extras set the perfect
Valentine’s mood.
MAY 2025
7
64 of 162

--- page 65 ---
Heyy!!!
Me and my partner just moved to
San Mateo 
This page has been really helpful
It’s so awesome that folks are putting
much more thought into the
programming on B Street. My partner
and I are moving closer to downtown,
looking forward to being able to
attend more of these events casually.
Thank you for organizing fun
community events like these!
They make San Mateo a
wonderful place to live.
I LOVE the newsletter.
The information is
seriously helpful.
The B Street pedestrian
corridor is one of my favorite
things about this town. Thanks
for always hosting events! 
COMMUNITY FEEDBACK
MAY 2025
65 of 162

--- page 66 ---
DSMA used social media, email newsletters, and DSMA.org to connect with the community. 
Contracted with photographers to get event, business, and community snapshots that
represent our lively Downtown for social media, website, and other marketing use
Announced DSMA events, Downtown happenings, storefront openings & anniversaries, sales
and promotions, City of San Mateo announcements, and Downtown businesses in the news. 
Projected the Downtown “brand” by sharing images and videos of Downtown (both current
and nostalgic), event recaps, highlights of district businesses, and by engaging with other
San Mateo-related accounts to keep Downtown San Mateo in the conversation
Brought awareness and excitement to campaigns such as Shop Small to Win Big and the
Downtown San Mateo Restaurant Guide
New social media campaigns for FY2024-25 included “Reviewsday Tuesday” and “What’s
happening Downtown this weekend” 
This year, with the help of volunteer Amy Lee, we activated Google Analytics for DSMA.org to
better understand how people are engaging with our website. Our three most-visited pages
were the home page, the “Eat, Drink & Shop” landing page, and the restaurant guide. We also
saw strong interest in information about Downtown events—even those not directly organized by
DSMA.
To improve our marketing efforts, we began using tracking tools called UTM codes (short for
"Urchin Tracking Module") on both digital and print ads and calendar listings. These codes help
us see exactly where our website traffic is coming from. Thanks to this new tracking, we learned
that our most effective ad placement this year was at the San Mateo On Ice rink, based on the
number of visits it generated to our site.
DSMA’s social media outreach continued to grow. Since July 2024, DSMA’s Facebook reach has
increased by 17% and we have gained 585 new followers. Our Instagram reach has increased by
more than 41% and gained over 1,600 new followers. Our total email newsletter subscribers
increased by over 180 community members and merchants. 
FY 2024-25 ANNUAL REPORT
DIGITAL MEDIA
MAY 2025
9
66 of 162

--- page 67 ---
FY 2024-25 ANNUAL REPORT
PRINT ADVERTISING & OTHER MARKETING
Increased Downtown San Mateo awareness by supporting local events such as the PAL
fundraiser and Borel PTA culture fair
Posters and print ads placed in Central Park during San Mateo On Ice, the Autumn Moon
Festival and Eggstravaganza
Updated the Downtown San Mateo Restaurant Guide and distributed them through
Downtown businesses, community events, and Peninsula hotels
Posters and flyers placed throughout the district and beyond to advertise DSMA events
Engaged with local media
HEAD WEST Marketplace paid ad & community feature in Palo Alto Daily Post (see above)
MAY 2025
10
67 of 162

--- page 68 ---
MAY 2025
https://www.sfchronicle.com/totalsf/article/san-mateo-downtown-b-street-20230080.php
68 of 162

--- page 69 ---
FY 2024-25 ANNUAL REPORT
BID MEMBER
ENGAGEMENT
Shop Small to Win Big!
DSMA collaborated with the San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce on the
second annual “Shop Small to Win Big!” campaign for Small Business Saturday.
This year, we incentivized “shopping small” in San Mateo by hosting a prize
drawing for those who uploaded a receipt from a locally owned business. Prizes
were donated by Porterhouse, Golden Moon Gallery, Elements Massage, Fanloli
Beauty, Fitphoria, and the San Mateo Arboretum Society (plus some businesses
outside of Downtown). 
In addition, we contracted with Worker B Marketing to create 8 short form
videos highlighting small businesses (4 in Downtown and 4 in other areas of San
Mateo). The businesses featured from Downtown were A2 Wine Bar, AAA
Vacuum & Sewing, Taqueria Las Palomas, and No Filter Brazilian Medspa. We
were so excited to share the stories of the small business owners who make
Downtown San Mateo so special. The videos were hosted on YouTube, with
landing pages for each featured business on DSMA.org. The efforts also
included a Small Business Saturday proclamation by former Mayor Lisa Diaz
Nash.
While BID membership is automatic based on a district address, awareness and participation are
not. The DSMA strives to engage BID members and add value for the many types of businesses
Downtown. 
MAY 2025
12
69 of 162

--- page 70 ---
FY 2024-25 ANNUAL REPORT
On Small Business Saturday, DSMA
hosted a special Jazz on B performance,
and also provided hand-outs about small
businesses in the area 
Reached out to new businesses,
providing a welcome guide and offering
DSMA support
Celebrated businesses who showed their
holiday spirit through the “Best Holiday
Decorating 2025” awards. This year, the
winners were Espetus and Lions Den
Shave Parlor
Supported North B merchants group at
meetings and acted as liaison to city
services when needed
Supported ribbon cuttings and other
business celebrations
Co-hosted Mix & Mingle with San Mateo
Chamber of Commerce, connecting
their members and ours
Downtown San Mateo Association
Member News email shared events,
business resources and opportunities,
and Downtown news coverage via email
with 500+ subscribers once a month. It
garners positive feedback from many
businesses and consistently has an open
rate of 45%
Collaborated with Downtown merchants
on community events, offering
sponsorship and partnering
opportunities to help enhance brand
recognition. For example: 
B Street Train was sponsored by
Florian Orthodontics and CAMedu
who both hosted booths. Cold Stone
Creamery offered free ice cream to
kids, which helped move event
participants to their storefront. 
For Lunar New Year, in addition to
offering sponsorships, 11 businesses
participated as parade stops. Lion
Dancers visited their storefronts,
performed a dance, and posed for
photos. 
Lions Den Shave Parlor and DSMA
collaborated on a Mother’s Day pop
up, offering flowers and a floral selfie
wall to families celebrating. 
MAY 2025
13
The Downtown San Mateo
Association, they’re fantastic and
super willing to help wherever they
can. 
Yvette Yong quoted on Palo Alto Online
70 of 162

--- page 71 ---
FY 2024-25 ANNUAL REPORT
Created online form on DSMA.org for
the community to submit cleanliness
suggestions
DSMA Beautification & Improvements
Committee held district “walk-arounds”
to identify cleanliness and maintenance
problems
Evaluated which areas of Downtown
needed extra power washings beyond
what the City provides, and coordinated
two power washings of Downtown “hot
spots” and one of the B Street mural
Continued to distribute “Your Role in a
Clean Downtown” brochures, especially
to new businesses
Regular communication with San Mateo
Police Department, adding to the safety
and security of Downtown
Funded cleaning services: Downtown
porters picked up litter and addressed
other cleanliness issues 7 days a week
DOWNTOWN BEAUTIFICATION 
& CLEANLINESS
Encouraged businesses to decorate for
the holidays by awarding “Best Holiday
Decorating 2025”
Created new North B Street banners and
continued holiday banners
Worked with involved businesses to
make improvements on landscaping 
Participated in discussions on the
creation of a new Downtown public
bathroom
Continued discussions with stakeholders
about creation of art murals on private
property 
CIVIC
PARTNERSHIP
DSMA routinely works with City of San Mateo staff from Public Works, Parks & Recreation, and
the City Manager’s Office on projects affecting Downtown. 
MAY 2025
14
71 of 162

--- page 72 ---
FY 2024-25 ANNUAL REPORT
ADDITIONAL CIVIC 
PARTNERSHIP ACTIVITIES
Engaged in “Revv up Downtown,” a
group facilitated by the City Manager’s
Office to activate Downtown, comprised
of Downtown San Mateo champions
Business outreach for City initiatives
including Business Watch, grant
opportunities, flood prevention, and
emergency preparedness awareness
Promotional support for City-sponsored
events including Central Park Music
Series, Winter Wonderland,
Eggstravaganza, and September Nights
on B
Maintained Walgreens community
window, ensuring fair use for community
organization advertising
Created online form on DSMA.org for
community comments
Responded to businesses' complaints
and inquiries, and resolved issues
whenever possible or facilitated
connections with the appropriate
entities for further assistance
Facilitated DSMA Board meeting
presentations from ReThink Waste, City
of San Mateo’s Economic Development
Manager, the Felton Institute, San Mateo
Police Department, and more
Worked to ensure the vibrancy of
Downtown by meeting with potential 3rd
party event organizers and pop-up
retailers
MAY 2025
15
72 of 162

--- page 73 ---
FY 2024-25 ANNUAL REPORT
Initiate supplemental power washing services to enhance Downtown's cleanliness, offering
cleaning services beyond what is provided by the City of San Mateo
Continue pop-up and other events on the B Street Pedestrian Mall and beyond, bringing
energy and visibility to Downtown
Continue to partner with City staff in support of Downtown
Continue the Downtown walk-around with City staff, DSMA board members and
stakeholders to identify areas that need attention
Refresh, print, and distribute the printed Downtown San Mateo Restaurant Guide and Your
Role in a Clean Downtown brochure
Sponsor and promote Downtown events coordinated by other groups (eg. Music in the Park,
San Mateo County Pride Celebration, September Nights on B Street, etc.)
Regular updates to City Council to share information about Downtown activations, special
events, and Downtown business news
PROGRESS ON FY 2024-25 GOALS 
GOALS
Last fiscal year’s goals are listed below and rated “Successful,” “Continuing Efforts,” or “Delayed.”
The nature of DSMA’s work is one of continuing improvement and growth; even if we are
successful, no goal is ever complete. 
SUCCESSFUL
MAY 2025
16
CONTINUING EFFORTS
Expand marketing efforts to outside immediate San Mateo area 
Develop a communications plan to further the DSMA brand
73 of 162

--- page 74 ---
FY 2024-25 ANNUAL REPORT
Implement targeted messaging campaigns throughout the year which will feature various
Downtown attributes
Hire a third party to conduct a financial review
Create relationships with developers and tech companies coming into the area
Develop social media advertising
Continue print ads in the local paper, the San Mateo Daily Journal
Regular representation at Council, task force, and Commission meetings
Expand board membership and improve board member participation
Strengthen economic development collaborations with local organizations
Research the impact of installing a public restroom in Downtown, closer to the core of the
Downtown
Explore the possibility of college intern helping with DSMA operations and events
Restart hotel magazine ad campaign (we are evaluating the best use of our marketing
budget)
DELAYED
MAY 2025
17
DSMA will continue with our successes from FY 2024-25, growing projects as needed and
making coordination more efficient. In addition, DSMA aims to achieve the following in FY 2025-
26:
Explore long-term sustainability of DSMA through incremental increase of BID assessments
and/or alternative revenue sources
Support the City of San Mateo with the Downtown Specific Plan
Recruit at least 2 new DSMA Board members; update and establish clear guidelines for
board member participation
Add new features to DSMA.org that will bring more organic traffic to the site, continue to
evaluate success through Google Analytics
NEW GOALS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2025-26
74 of 162

--- page 75 ---
FY 2024-25 ANNUAL REPORT
PROPOSED DSMA EVENTS 
FISCAL YEAR 2025-26
July 20: HEAD WEST Marketplace
July (date TBD): Pop up event
August 3: B Street Train
August 17: HEAD WEST Marketplace
August 24: North B Fiesta (North B
Merchants with DSMA support)
September 11 & 18: September Nights on
B (City of San Mateo event, DSMA will
support)
September 21: HEAD WEST Marketplace
September 28: San Mateo Arts & Culture
Fest (San Mateo Area Chamber of
Commerce & SMC Office of Arts &
Culture event with DSMA support) 
October 19: HEAD WEST Marketplace
October 25: BOOs on B Street
(collaboration with City of San Mateo
Parks & Recreation Dept)
November 16: HEAD WEST Marketplace
November 29: Small Business Saturday
(booth with information and giveaways,
music performance)
December 6 or 7: Las Posadas (North B
Merchants event with DSMA support)
December 6 or 7: Pre-Holiday Train
entertainment
December 15: Pop up holiday music
event featuring San Mateo high schools
December 21: HEAD WEST Marketplace
MAY 2025
18
75 of 162

--- page 76 ---
FY 2024-25 ANNUAL REPORT
PROPOSED DSMA EVENTS CONT’D 
January 24 (tentative date): Lunar New
Year
January (date TBD): Pop up event
February 14: Valentine’s Day pop up
February (date TBD): Pop up event
March (date TBD): Pop up event
March (date TBD): HEAD WEST
Marketplace
March or April (TBD): Tentative CSM
collaboration
April (date TBD): HEAD WEST
Marketplace
Late April (date TBD): Downtown San
Mateo Boba Day
May 10: Mother’s Day pop up
May (date TBD): HEAD WEST
Marketplace
June (date TBD): HEAD WEST
Marketplace
June (date TBD): Juneteenth or Pop up
event
Additional pop up events will be added as budget and schedules allow.
MAY 2025
19
76 of 162

--- page 77 ---
FY 2024-25 ANNUAL REPORT
BUDGET
Fiscal Year 2024-25 was DSMA’s second year with the latest assessment modifications
approved by City Council. FY2023-24's final revenue ($443k) was substantially higher than
budgeted for two main reasons: a generous one-time $11,000 grant was awarded to DSMA from
Flood Free San Mateo, and a small number of businesses’ fees were over-collected due to an
error. This error has been corrected, but this led to the overage in FY2023-24 and a slight under-
budget revenue total for FY2024-25. 
DSMA will continue to seek event sponsorship revenue in the future. Sponsoring activities
Downtown is a way for businesses and community organizations to show their whole-hearted
support for Downtown San Mateo activation. Although the sponsorships don’t completely cover
event costs, they help to subsidize the fun and engaging activities in the district. 
The expense highlights are:
Programmatic
Community events
Banners
Civic Partnership
Downtown Cleaning
Marketing
Advertising and Promotion
Social Media contractor
Photographer
Payroll & Professional Services
Administration
A small contingency fund for unplanned expenses
We also maintain a cash reserve of approximately $240k (as of 3/31/2025) held in a money
market account. These funds would help cover any unexpected large expenses.  
DSMA is incredibly grateful for the use of office space granted by the City of San Mateo. We
redirect that savings towards programs that support our mission. While DSMA doesn’t utilize any
city equipment, the shared space fosters a closer relationship between DSMA, the City, and
Downtown businesses. We would like to express our sincere gratitude to the City for providing
the shared space and for its ongoing support and partnership.
ESTIMATED INCOME AND
EXPENSES FOR FY 2025-26
MAY 2025
20
77 of 162

--- page 78 ---
FY 2024-25 ANNUAL REPORT

Total Income

Total Expenses

Net Income

Major Budget Items
Total Payroll
% of Income

Downtown Clean up
% of Income

Marketing
% of Income

Professional Services
% of Income

Consulting
% of Income

Banners
% of Income

Event Expense
% of Income

Total of Major Items

SAN MATEO
Budget Highlights - DSMA

Annual Budgets FY2022-23-FY2025-26

FY22-23

$140,000
$150,000

-$10,000

0.0%

$86,618
61.9%

$30,000
21.4%

$1,000
0.7%

$15,832
11.3%

$6,800
4.9%

$140,250

FY23-24
$443,000
$294,000

$149,000 $

$144,300

32.6%

$86,746
19.6%

$34,500
7.8%

$2,500
0.6%

0.0%

$7,500
1.7%

$13,000
2.9%

$288,546

$350,000

$350,000

$149,200
42.6%

$95,000
27.1%

$35,000
10.0%

$5,000
1.4%

0.0%

$9,000
2.6%

$25,000
7.1%

$318,200

FY24-25 (Est) FY25-26 (Bud)

$355,000

$355,000

MAY 2025

21

72 af 167


--- page 79 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-5112
File ID: 25-9875
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
May 05, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Side Letter of Agreement - Police Technical Services Administrator Classification Representation – Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to reflect the change in representation of the Police Technical Services Administrator (PTSA) from the 
San Mateo Management Employees’ Association (SMMEA) to the San Mateo Safety Management Association (SMSMA).
BACKGROUND:
In December 2024, the City received a petition to transfer representation of the PTSA classification from the SMMEA to the 
SMSMA Unit. The purpose of this Side Letter is to address the wages, benefits, hours and other terms and conditions of 
employment for the PTSA classification for the period of time between now and the ratification and adoption of a new 
MOU between the City and the SMSMA after June 21, 2026. The current SMMEA MOU contains provisions related to the 
terms and conditions of employment of the PTSA classification. 
Although the PTSA classification is petitioning to be represented by the SMSMA Unit, the current SMSMA MOU does not 
contain any provisions relating to the terms and conditions of employment of the PTSA classification. The SMSMA MOU 
expires on June 21, 2026 and it is anticipated that the successor MOU will provide for the terms and conditions of 
employment for the PTSA classification. 
Therefore, SMMEA and SMSMA agree to the following: 
• Effective April 13, 2025, the PTSA classification will be entitled to any changes to its cost-of-living adjustments (“COLAs”) 
as outlined in the SMMEA MOU dated April 13, 2025 through April 22, 2028. 
• Effective the first full pay period following Council adoption of the Side Letter of Agreement, the PTSA classification will 
be represented by SMSMA.
• Effective the first full pay period following Council adoption of the Side Letter of Agreement, the PTSA classification will 
no longer be enrolled in the following: California State Disability Insurance (SDI) Program, Housing Allowance per Section 
26.6 of the SMMEA MOU, and the City’s Long Term Disability program. 
• Effective the first full pay period following Council adoption of the Side Letter of Agreement, the PTSA classification will 
no longer receive the City contribution or City match regarding the deferred compensation program. 
• The SMSMA does not currently pay into SDI, Federal Social Security or the City’s Long Term Disability programs. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact as a result of this resolution.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Side Letter of Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not 
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the 
79 of 162

--- page 80 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Exhibit A – Side Letter of Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Yumi Maeda, Senior Human Resource Analyst
ymaeda@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7279
80 of 162

--- page 81 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025) 
 
APPROVING THE SIDE LETTER OF AGREMEENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO 
MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION AND THE SAN MATEO SAFETY MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
WHEREAS, the City received a petition to transfer representation of the Police Technical Services 
Administrator (“PTSA”) classification from the San Mateo Management Employees’ Association (“SMMEA”) to 
the SMSMA Unit; and     
 
WHEREAS, the amended SMMEA MOU, which expires on April 22, 2028, was adopted by the City Council on 
April 7, 2025.  It currently contains provisions related to the terms and conditions of employment of the PTSA 
classification.  Although the petition was to have the PTSA be represented by the SMSMA Unit, the current SMSMA 
MOU does not contain any provisions relating to the terms and conditions of employment of the PTSA classification; 
and  
 
 WHEREAS, the Side Letter of Agreement is to address the wages, benefits, hours and other terms and 
conditions of employment for the PTSA classification for the period of time between now and the ratification and 
adoption of a new MOU between the City and San Mateo Safety Management Association (“SMSMA”) expiring on 
June 21, 2026.   
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
 
1. This Side Letter of Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal 
activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a 
potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).) 
 
2. Effective April 13, 2025, the PTSA classification will be entitled to any changes to its cost-of-living 
adjustments (“COLAs”) as outlined in the SMMEA MOU. 
 
3. Effective the first full pay period following Council adoption, the PTSA classification will be 
represented by SMSMA. The provisions related to the terms and conditions of employment will 
apply except for compensation increases (Section 7.3) and all safety related provisions, including but 
not limited to: Sections 6.3 On-Call Pay, 6.4 Education Incentive Pay, 6.5 Extra Shift Premium Pay, 
6.6 Management Incentive Pay or 26.2 Benefits. 
 
4. Effective the first full pay period following Council adoption, the PTSA classification will no longer be 
enrolled in the following: California State Disability Insurance (SDI) Program, Housing Allowance per 
Section 26.6 of the SMMEA MOU, and the City’s Long Term Disability program. 
 
5. Effective the first full pay period following Council adoption, the PTSA classification will no longer 
receive the City contribution or City match regarding the deferred compensation program. 
 
 
6. This Side Letter of Agreement has no fiscal impact on the City’s budget. 
81 of 162

--- page 82 ---
Exhibit A 
 
Side Letter of Agreement  
Between the 
City of San Mateo 
and 
 San Mateo Management Employees’ Association 
and  
San Mateo Safety Management Association  
 
Re: Police Technical Services Administrator Classification Representation 
May 5, 2025 
 
The purpose of this Side Letter is to address the wages, benefits, hours and other terms and conditions 
of employment for the employee in the Police Technical Services Administrator (“PTSA”) classification 
for the period of time between now and the ratification and adoption of a new MOU between the City 
and San Mateo Safety Management Association (“SMSMA”) expiring on June 21, 2026.   
 
In December 2024, the City received a petition to transfer representation of the PTSA classification from 
the San Mateo Management Employees’ Association (“SMMEA”) to the SMSMA Unit.  The Personnel 
Officer approved the petitioners’ request for a unit modification.  No election was held because this is a 
single incumbent classification. 
 
The amended SMMEA MOU, which expires on April 22, 2028, was adopted by City Council on April 7, 
2025.  It currently contains provisions related to the terms and conditions of employment of the PTSA 
classification.  Although the PTSA classification is represented by the SMSMA Unit, the current SMSMA 
MOU does not contain any provisions relating to the terms and conditions of employment of the PTSA 
classification. The SMSMA MOU expires on June 21, 2026 and it is anticipated that the successor MOU 
will provide for the terms and conditions of employment for the PTSA classification.  
 
Therefore, the parties agree that: 
 
• 
Effective April 13, 2025, the PTSA classification will be entitled to any changes to its cost-of-
living adjustments (“COLAs”) as outlined in the SMMEA MOU dated April 13, 2025 through April 
22, 2028. 
 
• 
Effective the first full pay period following Council adoption, the PTSA classification will be 
represented by SMSMA. The provisions related to the terms and conditions of employment will 
apply except for compensation increases (Section 7.3) and all safety related provisions, including 
but not limited to: Sections 6.3 On-Call Pay, 6.4 Education Incentive Pay, 6.5 Extra Shift Premium 
Pay, 6.6 Management Incentive Pay or 26.2 Benefits. 
 
82 of 162

--- page 83 ---
2 
 
• 
Effective the first full pay period following Council adoption, the PTSA classification will no 
longer be enrolled in the following: California State Disability Insurance (SDI) Program, Housing 
Allowance per Section 26.6 of the SMMEA MOU, and the City’s Long Term Disability program. 
 
• 
Effective the first full pay period following Council adoption, the PTSA classification will no 
longer receive the City contribution or City match regarding the deferred compensation 
program. 
 
The SMSMA does not currently pay into SDI, Federal Social Security or the City’s Long Term Disability 
programs.   
 
This side letter shall expire upon the ratification of a successor MOU by SMSMA and its adoption by the 
San Mateo City Council, or new terms and conditions of employment are implemented, whichever is 
earlier. 
 
 
____________________ 
  ________________________   _________________________ 
Aracelia Esparza 
 
  Kevin Kobayashi 
 
  Matt Earnshaw 
Human Resources Director   President, SMMEA 
 
  President, SMSMA 
 
 
Date:  __________________ 
 
 
 
 
83 of 162

--- page 84 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 25-9890
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
May 05, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Minimum Wage Enforcement – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with the County of San Mateo’s Office of Labor Standards Enforcement (OLSE) to provide minimum 
wage enforcement services for the City’s minimum wage ordinance, in an amount not to exceed $60,000, and authorize 
the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
On August 15, 2016, the City Council approved an Ordinance to increase the minimum wage within the City of San Mateo, 
above the state and federal levels, effective January 1, 2017. The adopted Ordinance includes a requirement for the City to 
enforce the regulation to ensure employees are receiving the mandated wage. 
Since adoption of the Ordinance, the City has contracted with the City of San Jose’s Office of Equality Assurance (OEA) to 
provide enforcement services. The contract is set to expire on June 30, 2025. During the course of this partnership, OEA 
investigated three complaints in the City. A total of 23 employees were affected and received $2,982.92 in recovered 
wages.
The County of San Mateo established the Office of Labor Standards Enforcement (OLSE) in July 2024 to enforce minimum 
wage standards, address wage theft, and educate businesses on best labor practices. 
Starting July 1, 2025, OLSE will provide enforcement services for several cities in the region, including South San Francisco, 
Redwood City, Burlingame, Belmont, Menlo Park, and Foster City. Staff is recommending San Mateo also transfer service 
from OEA to OLSE.
South San Francisco and San Mateo would contribute more due to having a higher number of businesses with employees, 
as payment is proportionally based on number of employees. The proposed agreement offers a flat fee of $20,000 
annually, with one (1), one-year extension option at the same fee as the first year, adjusted by the CPI, for a total not to 
exceed $60,000. The negotiated agreement is included as Attachment 1 to this report. 
The transition of minimum wage Ordinance enforcement from San Jose to the County’s Office of Labor Standards 
Enforcement (OLSE) would support the countywide effort to provide consistency within the County and help ensure the 
new office’s long-term viability. Since many businesses operate across multiple cities withing the County, OLSE’s broader 
scope will improve the ability to address multi-city complaints and improves logistics by bringing the enforcement arm 
closer to the source. Additionally, the County’s annual fee of $20,000 is lower than San Jose’s annual cost of $25,000. 
While the contract amount is within the City Manager’s approval authority, Council approval is required due to the 
84 of 162

--- page 85 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
interagency nature of the agreement. Upon Council approval, the contract will be presented to the San Mateo County 
Board for final review.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The agreement with OLSE is for an amount not to exceed $60,000. Services will be billed annually on September 15 and 
April 15. The agreement will be funded from the Economic Development Program budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Jennifer Chen, Economic Development Manager
jchen@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7009
85 of 162

--- page 86 ---
1
Agreement No.: 
 
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND COUNTY OF SAN MATEO
This Agreement is entered into this first day of July, 2025, by and between the CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, in the County of San Mateo, State of California (“City”), and the COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, a 
political subdivision of the State of California (“County”). City and County are sometimes hereinafter 
collectively referred to as the “Parties”.
* * *
WHEREAS, pursuant to Government Code Section 51300, et seq., County may contract with City for 
the performance by County of City’s functions; and
WHEREAS, County’s Office of Labor Standards and Enforcement (“OLSE”) will implement and 
enforce County’s local Minimum Wage Ordinance in its unincorporated areas; and
WHEREAS, City’s local Minimum Wage Ordinance, codified in Chapter 5.92.040 of the City of San 
Mateo Municipal Code, authorizes the use of third parties to assist in implementing and enforcing City’s 
Minimum Wage Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, City and County wish to establish an agreement in which County will provide services to 
enforce City’s Minimum Wage Ordinance.
Now, therefore, it is agreed by the parties to this Agreement as follows:
1.
Exhibits and Attachments
The following exhibit is incorporated by reference herein:
1.1 Exhibit A – Services
2.
Services to be Performed by County
In consideration of the payments set forth herein, County, through OLSE, will provide investigative 
services on behalf of City regarding potential violations of City’s Minimum Wage Ordinance. 
2.1 OLSE shall serve as the investigative body for potential violations of City’s Minimum Wage 
Ordinance but shall not have enforcement authority beyond its investigative role. OLSE will retain 
sole discretion to determine the method and means of performing investigative services in 
accordance with the terms, conditions, and specifications set forth in this Agreement and Exhibit 
A.
2.2 OLSE will direct any questions or issues regarding the interpretation, administration, or 
enforcement of City’s Minimum Wage Ordinance to City. City must provide timely and appropriate 
direction responding to OLSE’s questions or issues.   
2.3 If OLSE’s investigation identifies violations of City’s Minimum Wage Ordinance and the employer 
fails to remedy the violation, OLSE shall refer such cases back to City for further action.
2.4 Nothing in this agreement shall be construed to limit County’s independent authority under state 
law to investigate and, at its discretion, prosecute violations of state labor laws. However, OLSE 
shall not be responsible for enforcing or prosecuting violations of City’s Minimum Wage 
Ordinance.
86 of 162

--- page 87 ---
2
3.
Payments
In consideration of the services provided by County in accordance with all terms, conditions, and
specifications set forth in this Agreement, including but not limited to Exhibit A, County will submit two 
invoices to City during the term of the contract. City will pay County at the rate specified in 3.1 of this 
section. Option and future escalation begin each July 1 upon mutual written agreement by the Parties.
3.1 Compensation: City shall pay County compensation of Twenty Thousand Dollars ($20,000) for 
the initial one-year term.
3.2 Invoicing: County will submit an invoice to City by September 15, 2025 for 50% of the total stated 
in 3.1 for services to be provided in the first half of the contract timeframe. County will submit a 
second invoice by April 15, 2026 for the remainder of the total stated in 3.1 for services to be 
provided in the second half of the contracted timeframe. City will provide County with the address 
of the designated recipient for invoices.
3.3 Rate Adjustment – Option Term: Should the parties agree to renew this contract for the one-year 
option term specified in Section 4.1, City shall pay County compensation of Twenty Thousand 
Dollars ($20,000) plus a percentage of $20,000 equal to the prior year’s increase, if any, in the 
Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W) calculated by 
using the preceding August to August change in the CPI-W.
4.
Term
This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from 12:01 AM on July 1, 2025, through June 30, 
2026. If approval of this Agreement is delayed past the commencement date due to extenuating 
circumstances, this Agreement shall take effect on the date services by the County commence.
4.1 This Agreement includes the option for the City and County to renew for one additional one-year 
period, extending to June 30, 2027, by mutual agreement and subject to the rate adjustment 
described in Section 3.3. Each party shall notify the other of its intent to renew no later than 
March 1st of the preceding year.
5.
Termination
This Agreement may be terminated by City or County at any time for any reason upon thirty (30) days’ 
advance written notice. 
5.1 County may terminate this Agreement upon less than thirty (30) days’ advance written notice only 
with cause. In order to terminate for cause, County must first give City notice of the alleged 
breach. City shall have five (5) business days after receipt of such notice to respond and a total of 
ten (10) calendar days after receipt of such notice to cure the alleged breach. If City fails to cure 
the breach within this period, County may immediately terminate this Agreement without further 
action. The option available in this paragraph is separate from the ability to terminate without 
cause with appropriate notice described above. In the event that County provides notice of an 
alleged breach pursuant to this section, County may, in extreme circumstances, immediately 
suspend performance of services and payment under this Agreement pending the resolution of 
the process described in this paragraph. County has sole discretion to determine what constitutes 
an extreme circumstance for purposes of this paragraph, and County shall use reasonable 
judgment in making that determination.
87 of 162

--- page 88 ---
3
5.2 County shall be entitled to receive payment for any and all services provided prior to termination 
of the Agreement. Such payment shall be that prorated portion of the full payment determined by 
comparing the work/services actually completed to the work/services required by the Agreement.
5.3 City may terminate this Agreement upon less than thirty (30) days’ advance written notice only 
based on the unavailability of City funds by providing written notice to County as soon as is 
reasonably possible after City learns of said unavailability of funding.
5.4 If City terminates for unavailability of funds, City shall pay County for 1) the services actually 
performed, on or before the effective date of termination; and (2) reasonable cost and expenses 
the County may have incurred as a direct result of early termination of the Agreement. 
6.
Ownership of County’s Work Product
Upon termination or expiration of this Agreement, all work product, including documents, reports, and 
data prepared by County, shall become the property of City. County will retain copies of all materials 
provided to City.
7.
Relationship of the Parties
County performs all work and services under this Agreement as an independent contractor and not as 
an employee of City. Neither County nor any of its employees, agents, or representatives shall be 
considered employees, agents, partners, or joint venturers of City.
7.1 No Employment Benefits. Neither County nor any of its employees shall be entitled to any rights, 
privileges, powers, or advantages of City employees, including but not limited to:
(a) wages, salary, or other forms of compensation;
(b) retirement benefits or pension plans;
(c) health insurance or other medical benefits;
(d) disability or workers' compensation coverage;
(e) paid time off, including vacation, sick leave, or holidays; or
(f)
any other employee benefits offered by the City to its employees.
7.2 Control of Work. County shall retain sole and absolute discretion in the manner and means of 
carrying out its activities and responsibilities under this Agreement, subject only to the express 
terms and conditions of this Agreement.
7.3 Tax Obligations. County shall be solely responsible for all applicable federal, state, and local 
taxes related to payments received under this Agreement.
8.
Indemnification
This provision applies in lieu of Government code 895.6.
8.1 County will indemnify and hold harmless City and its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers 
from and against all claims, damages, losses and expenses (collectively “Claims”), arising out of 
the performance of this Agreement, to the extent such claims are caused by any act or omission 
of County.
8.2 City will indemnify and hold harmless County and its officer, officials, employees, and volunteers 
from and against all claims, damages, losses, and expenses (collectively “Claims”), arising out of 
the performance of this Agreement, to the extent such claims are caused by any act or omission 
of City. 
88 of 162

--- page 89 ---
4
8.3 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, County’s liability for any action or 
event occurring (a) during the initial Term will not exceed the maximum dollar amount payable to 
County during the initial Term (b) during the option year will not exceed the maximum dollar 
amount payable to County during such option year. 
9.
Insurance
County is self-insured with respect to claims for which it would bear responsibility under this 
Agreement, including but not limited to liability, automobile, and workers’ compensation claims as 
authorized under Government Code Section 990.4 and Labor Code Section 3700.
10. Records Retention and Audit Rights
County shall maintain all required records relating to services provided under this Agreement for three 
(3) years after City makes final payment and all other pending matters are closed, and County shall be 
subject to the examination and/or audit by City, a Federal grantor agency, and the State of California.
10.1 County shall comply with all program and fiscal reporting requirements set forth by applicable 
Federal, State, and local agencies and as required by City.
10.2 County agrees upon reasonable notice to provide to City, to any Federal or State department  
having monitoring or review authority, to City’s authorized representative, and/or to any of their 
respective audit agencies access to and the right to examine all records and documents 
necessary to determine compliance with relevant Federal, State, and local statutes, rules, and 
regulations, to determine compliance with this Agreement, and to evaluate the quality, 
appropriateness, and timeliness of services performed.
10.3 The County shall retain all records related to this Agreement for three (3) years after final 
payment. The City shall have the right to audit these records upon reasonable advance written 
notice.
11. Merge Clause
This Agreement, including the Exhibits and Attachments attached to this Agreement and incorporated 
by reference, constitutes the sole Agreement of the parties to this Agreement and correctly states the 
rights, duties, and obligations of each party as of this document’s date. In the event that any term, 
condition, provision, requirement, or specification set forth in the body of this Agreement conflicts with or 
is inconsistent with any term, condition, provision, requirement, or specification in any Exhibit and/or 
Attachment to this Agreement, the provisions of the body of the Agreement shall prevail. Any prior 
agreement, promises, negotiations, or representations between the parties not expressly stated in this 
document is not binding. All subsequent modifications or amendments shall be in writing and signed by 
the parties.
12. Assignments
County shall not assign this Agreement or any portion thereof without the prior written consent of City. 
However, County may subcontract with a third party to perform services related to OLSE activities under 
this Agreement without requiring City’s prior written consent. County shall remain responsible for ensuring 
that any subcontractor complies with the terms of this Agreement. Any unauthorized assignment shall 
give City the right to automatically and immediately terminate this Agreement without penalty or advance 
notice.
13. Controlling Law and Venue
89 of 162

--- page 90 ---
5
The validity of this Agreement and of its terms, the rights and duties of the parties under this 
Agreement, the interpretation of this Agreement, the performance of this Agreement, and any other 
dispute of any nature arising out of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of 
California without regard to its choice of law or conflict of law rules. Any dispute arising out of this 
Agreement shall be venued either in the San Mateo County Superior Court or in the United States District 
Court for the Northern District of California.
14. Dispute Resolution
Should any dispute arise out of this agreement, County and City, or their authorized designees, shall 
first meet and confer in an attempt to resolve the dispute. Should such efforts fail to resolve the dispute 
within twenty (20) days, the parties shall meet in mediation and attempt to reach a resolution with the 
assistance of a mutually acceptable mediator. Neither party shall file legal action without first meeting in 
mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated resolution. The cost of the mediator, if 
any, shall be paid equally by the parties. If a mediated settlement is reached neither party shall be 
deemed the prevailing party for purposes of the settlement and each party shall bear its own legal costs. 
15. Fines and Forfeitures
15.1 City shall be entitled to the fines and forfeitures to which City would be entitled pursuant to City’s 
Minimum Wage Ordinances and applicable regulations. 
15.2 Unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, City shall remain responsible for the billing and 
collection of these fees. Information obtained by County that is required by City to complete the 
billing or collection will be forwarded to City.
16. Notices
Any notice, request, demand, or other communication required or permitted under this Agreement 
shall be deemed to be properly given when both: (1) transmitted via email to the email address listed 
below; and (2) sent to the physical address listed below by either being deposited in the United States 
mail, postage prepaid, or deposited for overnight delivery, charges prepaid, with an established overnight 
courier that provides a tracking number showing confirmation of receipt.
In the case of County, to:
Name/Title: Shane Ross, Labor Standards Manager 
Address: 500 County Center, 5th Floor, Redwood City, CA 94063
Telephone: 628-204-3982
Email: sross1@smcgov.org
In the case of City, to:
Name/Title: Jennifer Chen, Economic Development Manager
Address: 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403
Telephone: 650-522-7009
Email: jchen@cityofsanmateo.org
17. Electronic Signatures 
The Parties agree to permit electronic signatures in accordance with California law.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, by their duly authorized representatives, have executed 
this Agreement on the day and year first hereinabove written. 
90 of 162

--- page 91 ---
6
CITY OF SAN MATEO
By:__________________________
    Date ____________________________
Alex Khojikian 
City Manager
APPROVED AS TO FORM  
                                                                      
By: 
    Date: 
Mazarin Vakharia
Asst. City Attorney 
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO
APPROVED AS TO FORM
By: 
By: 
Date: 
91 of 162

--- page 92 ---
7
EXHIBIT "A"
SCOPE OF SERVICES
County, through its Office of Labor Standards and Enforcement (OLSE), shall provide investigative 
services on behalf of City regarding potential violations of City’s Minimum Wage Ordinance. OLSE will 
serve as the investigative body but shall not be required to enforce its determinations beyond its 
prescribed role. County shall, however, retain sole discretion to determine:
1.
The methods of investigation;
2.
The depth and extent of investigation for each matter, including the discretion not to investigate a 
matter beyond the initial complaint if deemed outside of the scope specified in this contract or is 
otherwise determined to be inappropriate for investigation; 
3.
Whether to issue findings and/or a notice of violation and the nature of the finding and content of 
the notice; and 
4.
Whether the evidence merits civil prosecution, in which case County, through OLSE, shall have 
the authority to initiate and pursue such proceedings independently.
5.
Whether the evidence merits discussion with a criminal attorney. 
Task 1: Responding to Inquiries
OLSE shall:
•
Answer general written and telephonic inquiries regarding City’s Minimum Wage Ordinance 
directly or via subcontracted attorney-managed advice line.
•
Respond to written inquiries requiring research, including wage rates, coverage applicability, and 
regulatory clarifications.
Task 2: Complaint Intake & Initial Assessment
OLSE or OLSE Advice Line will receive and assess complaints alleging violations of City’s Minimum 
Wage Ordinance. Complaint intake will include gathering the following information, when possible:
•
Complainant’s name, contact information, and employment details.
•
Employer’s name, business location, and managerial contacts.
•
Type of work performed, work schedule, rate of pay, and method of payment.
•
Supporting documentation, including but not limited to pay stubs, records of hours worked, or 
other relevant evidence.
Task 3: Investigation of Minimum Wage Violations
1.
OLSE will conduct investigations as it determines warranted based on the complaint and 
available evidence.
2.
As part of an investigation, OLSE may request relevant documentation from the employer, 
including but not limited to:
•
Payroll records and timekeeping data.
•
Lists of employees with employment dates and job titles.
92 of 162

--- page 93 ---
8
•
Any other records necessary to determine compliance.
3.
If an employer fails to provide requested documentation within fourteen (14) business days, or a 
reasonable time set by OLSE, or provides incomplete information, OLSE may proceed with its 
investigation using the available evidence, or may use its discretion to determine further 
investigation is unlikely to lead to sufficient evidence to determine a violation has occurred.
4.
OLSE will review any evidence including employer responses and, when sufficient information is 
available, determine whether a violation has occurred.
5.
OLSE will provide status updates to Complainants throughout the investigation.
Task 4: Findings & Notice of Violation
1.
If OLSE determines a violation has occurred, it will calculate any back wages owed and prepare a 
written Notice of Violation.
2.
The notice shall:
•
Outline the basis of the violation and supporting evidence.
•
Provide the employer an opportunity to submit additional information or contest 
the findings.
3.
The employer will have fourteen (14) business days from the date of the notice to:
•
Submit additional documentation proving compliance; and/or
•
Request a meeting with OLSE’s designated representative to contest the 
violation.
Task 5: Review of Employer's Response
If the employer contests the violation, OLSE shall:
1.
Review any additional information provided.
2.
Conduct follow-up investigations as necessary.
3.
Issue a final written determination outlining its findings to the employer, with a copy to the 
complainants.
Task 6: Reporting & Compliance Monitoring
OLSE will provide City with biannual reports summarizing:
•
The number of complaints received.
•
The number of investigations initiated, active and closed.
•
The number of confirmed cases and violations.
•
Any actions taken, including restitution of wages and penalties assessed.
Task 7: Public Outreach/ Information 
Upon request by the City, OLSE shall:
•
Provide informational materials regarding compliance with the ordinance.
93 of 162

--- page 94 ---
9
Task 8: Meetings & Coordination
Upon request of City, OLSE will meet with City up to twice per year to have a general discussion of 
matters related to the enforcement of City’s Minimum Wage Ordinance. Additionally, OLSE will attend 
additional meetings if an investigation's findings warrant further discussion and City requests such 
meetings.
Meetings will address:
•
Active investigations.
•
Completed complaints.
•
General enforcement trends and compliance efforts.
Task 9: Annual Minimum Wage Updates
OLSE shall:
•
Annually update the minimum wage rate based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI) as identified 
in City’s Minimum Wage Ordinance. Section 5.92.050 c and d. 
•
Notify City of changes to the minimum wage rate by September 15 of each year, contingent upon 
the release date of the Consumer Price Index rate.
•
Transmit documentation of the future minimum wage increases to the City by September 15 of 
each year.
General Provisions
•
County is not obligated to undertake any enforcement actions beyond those specified unless 
otherwise agreed upon in writing by both parties.
•
City acknowledges that OLSE's role is limited to investigation and determination of whether a 
violation occurred, but does not include administrative enforcement or adjudication.
94 of 162

--- page 95 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 82-4683
File ID: 25-9828
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
May 5, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Electric Vehicle Fleet Program Terms and Conditions – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the PG&E Program Electric Vehicle Fleet Program Terms and Conditions and authorize the City Manager to 
execute the documents in substantially the form presented and to negotiate an easement agreement for the deployment 
of PG&E facilities to serve electric vehicle infrastructure, including relocation as needed, for future Council approval.
BACKGROUND:
Electric vehicle charging infrastructure is necessary to support the City Council priority to electrify the City’s fleet and in 
alignment with the City’s Climate Action Plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transportation. In July 2024, the 
City applied for the Corporation Yard (Corp Yard) site to participate in the PG&E Electric Vehicle (EV) Fleet Program that 
helps fleets install charging infrastructure by providing a dedicated new electrical service and to-the-meter electrical 
infrastructure at no-cost to program participants. To participate in the PG&E EV Fleet Program, participants must purchase 
one medium-duty or heavy-duty electric vehicle for every EV charging station installed. Through the program, PG&E 
provides rebates for vehicle purchases. 
In September 2024, PG&E approved the City’s Corp Yard application and conducted a remote review of the Corp Yard site. 
In February 2025, PG&E’s electrical engineer conducted a site walk at the Corp Yard to confirm the to-the-meter 
infrastructure build-out. The PG&E grid planner approved the new capacity for the project which will support the 
installation of six Level 2 dual-port charging stations. PG&E finalized the PG&E EV Fleet Program Terms and Conditions 
(Attachment 1). The City must execute the agreement to begin the next phase of the project, which includes PG&E 
finalization of to-the-meter design and the City‘s behind-the-meter design and construction. 
At a later phase of the project, staff anticipates returning to City Council with an easement deed to grant an easement to 
PG&E for the new infrastructure and a Resolution to accept and appropriate PG&E vehicle rebate funding. Staff 
recommends the City Council approve the PG&E EV Fleet Program Terms and Conditions and authorize the City Manager 
to execute the required documentation in substantially the form presented. The Terms and Conditions contemplate 
relocation of the easement if the City requests and with mutually agreeable terms, at the sole expense of the City. Staff 
plans to include such a relocation provision in the easement agreement.  If in the future relocation is necessary, staff may 
need to return to Council with an updated easement and legal description.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
Participation in PG&E's Electric Vehicle Fleet Program does not require any fees. PG&E will install to-the-meter 
infrastructure at no cost to the City. The behind-the-meter design and construction is funded by the Peninsula Clean 
Energy Member Agency grant that was accepted and appropriated at the December 9th, 2024 City Council meeting. The 
City will receive a vehicle rebate from PG&E at the close of the project. A future Council item will accept and appropriate 
95 of 162

--- page 96 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the PG&E vehicle rebate funding.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Approval of the PG&E Program Electric Vehicle Fleet Program Terms and Conditions is exempt from CEQA review as an 
“existing facility,” because it relates to a project consisting of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, 
licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical 
features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – PG&E Electric Vehicle Fleet Program Terms and Conditions
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7007
Daniel Heffelfinger, Fleet Services Supervisor
dheffelfinger@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7366
96 of 162

--- page 97 ---
Clean Energy Transportation 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
300 Lakeside Drive 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
Cover Letter (11.2024 Version)  
Page 1 of 5 
April 22, 2025 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO  
1961 PACIFIC BOULEVARD  
SAN MATEO, CA 94403 
 
RE: FLEET006954396 
 
Dear Daniel Heffelfinger,  
 
Congratulations! We are pleased to extend CITY OF SAN MATEO an invitation to join PG&E’s EV Fleet 
Electrification program. Upon your completion of the action items below, we will move your project into the 
design phase and begin the engineering, design and construction plans for 1961 PACIFIC BOULEVARD, SAN 
MATEO, CA 94403. Please note, future changes to the project scope may change your eligibility for the 
program. 
 
Included in this contract are the following items: 
• 
Cover Letter 
o 
Offer Description 
o 
Preliminary Design (also attached as PDF) 
• 
Letter of Commitment 
o 
EV Deployment Commitment 
• 
EV Fleet Program Terms and Conditions (“Contract”) 
• 
Exhibit A: Project Scope 
• 
Appendices 
o 
Appendix A: PG&E EV Fleet Program Participant Data Reporting Requirements 
o 
Appendix B: CPUC’s Safety Requirements Checklist for CPUC-Approved Transportation 
Electrification Programs 
 
Immediate Action Items: 
• 
Review the entire document 
• 
Sign and return the Letter of Commitment and Contract 
• 
Provide proof of commitment (as defined below) for appropriate vehicles  
 
By signing the Letter of Commitment and the Contract, I hereby confirm my participation in PG&E’s Fleet 
Electrification program and acknowledge that: 
• 
I agree to install the number of EV Supply Equipment (EVSE or “EV charger”) specified in Exhibit A of 
the Contract; 
• 
Upon execution of the Contract, PG&E will begin incurring design fees and costs as my project moves 
forward; 
• 
If I withdraw from the program prior to the site being activated, then PG&E reserves the right to recover 
all fees and costs incurred by it and its subcontractors after the execution of the Contract, including but 
not limited to, design cost, site walk costs, etc.; 
• 
PG&E may need to conduct a comprehensive design site walk; 
• 
If the existing infrastructure or physical site or equipment is substantially different than anticipated or 
described, then PG&E will make reasonable effort to redesign the project in a manner acceptable to 
both parties, but reserves the right to cancel my participation in the program; 
• 
If I request to make changes to the scope or design of the project, then PG&E reserves the right to 
recover all costs associated with that change, such as redesign costs; 
97 of 162

--- page 98 ---
Clean Energy Transportation 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
300 Lakeside Drive 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
Cover Letter (11.2024 Version)  
Page 2 of 5 
• 
If I do not submit required documentation (e.g., signed easement) or fail to move this project forward for 
a period of 90 days or more, then PG&E may consider this an abandonment of this Contract and 
reserves the right to cancel my participation in the program and recover all costs incurred; and 
• 
My EV chargers meet the Safety Checklist requirements and have networking protocols (as described 
in Appendix A and Appendix B). I agree to ensure that EVSE network connectivity is in good condition 
for at least five years from the date of activation. 
 
Offer Description 
 
After careful consideration of the project costs and scope of work, PG&E has determined you are eligible for the 
Make-Ready Incentive Option. PG&E will design, construct, own, and maintain any necessary EV supply 
infrastructure to the meter only. CITY OF SAN MATEO will design, build, own, operate, and maintain the EV 
supply infrastructure behind the meter, hereafter referred to as customer-owned make-ready infrastructure. 
PG&E provides an incentive that is equal to the lesser amount of either: (i) 80% of the customer-owned make-
ready infrastructure costs or (ii) the incentive cap of $24,000.00 as described in the table below. Project 
documentation should be submitted to your Project Manager within 90 days of site activation to initiate the 
incentive payment process. 
 
EV Supply Infrastructure Incentive 
Applies to Site Hosts who pay for, own, and maintain EV Supply Infrastructure 
Vehicle Type 
Per Vehicle Incentive 
# of Vehicles 
School Buses, Local Delivery 
Trucks, or Other Vehicles 
$4,000.00 per Vehicle 
6 
*** Note: Capped at 25 vehicles *** 
Vehicle Type (Total) 
Incentive (Total) 
Incentive Total 
Total # of Vehicles 
6 
Lesser amount of either 80% of the 
customer-owned make-ready infrastructure 
costs or the incentive cap, as described 
above, on a per vehicle basis 
Maximum of $24,000.00 
 
EV Charger Requirements   
As a reminder, to participate in the EV Fleet program, your EV chargers, also known as EV supply 
equipment, at a minimum must meet the EV Fleet Program Data Reporting requirements outlined in 
Appendix A and the Safety Checklist requirements outlined in Appendix B. In addition, the EV chargers 
must at least meet the following network communications requirements: 
• 
Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment (EVSE) shall have metering capability through an internal device 
and shall be able to measure power and usage parameters to enable reporting of the metrics in the 
Contractor Requirement section. 
• 
After loss of power, provided the EVSE connector to vehicle has not been removed, the EVSE shall 
return to its post-configuration state (i.e., shall persist communication and registration configurations.  
This does not include continuing user sessions when authorization is required to start a session). 
• 
EVSE shall provide a reset option, which returns the device to its pre-charge state (e.g., card or 
message- not user accessible). 
 
 
 
98 of 162

--- page 99 ---
Clean Energy Transportation 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
300 Lakeside Drive 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
Cover Letter (11.2024 Version)  
Page 3 of 5 
Preliminary Design 
The preliminary design for your project is below and has also been provided as a PDF along with this contract. 
Please note that any requests to change the scope of the project may result in redesign costs to you of up to 
$15,000 per request. Examples of changes to scope include requests to modify the number or type of charger 
being deployed or modify the location of the meter. 
 
PG&E may opt to utilize existing infrastructure, including existing conduit, in order to minimize project costs as 
indicated by the word “existing” on any components on the Preliminary Design. 
 
 
 
99 of 162

--- page 100 ---
Clean Energy Transportation 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
300 Lakeside Drive 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
Cover Letter (11.2024 Version)  
Page 4 of 5 
 
 
 
100 of 162

--- page 101 ---
Clean Energy Transportation 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
300 Lakeside Drive 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
Cover Letter (11.2024 Version)  
Page 5 of 5 
Next Steps: 
We respectfully request that you return your signed contract as soon as possible. After we receive your 
signed contract, I will introduce you to your Project Manager, who will lead you through the design and 
construction process for your site. 
 
Thank you for your participation in this exciting program! You are taking an important step to support California’s 
ambitious climate and air quality goals, and we appreciate that you have elected to work with PG&E to electrify 
your fleet. 
 
Please contact me if you have any questions. 
 
Regards, 
 
Jacob Panachaveettil 
Jacob.panachaveettil@pge.com 
925-336-3589 
Electric Vehicle Customer Onboarding Specialist 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
 
101 of 162

--- page 102 ---
Clean Energy Transportation 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
300 Lakeside Drive 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
EV Fleet Letter of Commitment (11.2024 Version) 
Page 1 of 1 
EV Fleet Program Terms and Conditions (“Contract”) 
Between CITY OF SAN MATEO and Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
 
  
April 22, 2025 
 
Clean Energy Transportation 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
300 Lakeside Drive 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
Re: Electric Vehicle Deployment Commitment for CITY OF SAN MATEO  
 
Dear Pacific Gas and Electric Company, 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO and PG&E have worked together and agreed on a contract under which CITY OF SAN 
MATEO purchases electric fleet vehicles and PG&E performs make-ready infrastructure work and, if qualified, 
provides EV charger rebates and infrastructure incentives. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO has received approval from our internal decision makers and commits to purchase 6 
electric vehicles by December 31, 2029. We plan to purchase and deploy the vehicles during the following 
timeline: 
 
Electric Vehicle Deployment Schedule 
Description 
2025 
2026 
2027 
2028 
2029 
Total 
Medium Duty Vehicle 
1 
1 
0 
4 
0 
6 
 
By signing the Letter of Commitment and the Contract, CITY OF SAN MATEO understands that, in accordance 
with the section titled ‘Vehicle Purchase Plans’, CITY OF SAN MATEO is responsible for realizing the number 
and type of EV Fleet vehicles that have been indicated in Exhibit A of the aforementioned Contract regardless of 
the decision of granting agencies. These vehicles will be domiciled at 1961 PACIFIC BOULEVARD, SAN 
MATEO, CA 94403. 
 
If CITY OF SAN MATEO does not put into operation the number of vehicles stated in the section above, PG&E in 
its sole discretion may require CITY OF SAN MATEO to reimburse PG&E for costs incurred by PG&E associated 
with PG&E’s reliance on my commitment to install infrastructure, such as costs of equipment, site design, and 
installation. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Customer Signature1 
Signature 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Company Name 
 
Customer Print 
Print 
Customer SignedDate1 
Date 
 
Customer Title1 
Title 
 
102 of 162

--- page 103 ---
Clean Energy Transportation 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
300 Lakeside Drive 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
Contract version revised 11.2024 
Page 1 of 10 
EV Fleet Program Terms and Conditions (“Contract”) 
Between CITY OF SAN MATEO and Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
EV Fleet Program Terms and Conditions (“Contract”) 
 
Definitions 
 
As used in this Contract, the following terms have the following meanings: 
 
Disadvantaged Community: Census tracts in PG&E’s service territory with a top quartile score according to California 
Environmental Protection Agency’s CalEnviroScreen 3.0. 
 
EV Service Connection: Traditional utility infrastructure from the utility distribution system to the meter, which may include 
but is not limited to cable, conductors, conduit, transformers, and associated substructures from the utility distribution 
system. Also referred to as “To the Meter” (TTM) infrastructure. 
 
EV Supply Infrastructure: Infrastructure from the meter (“but not including the meter”) to the parking space, which may 
include an electrical panel, cable, and conduit necessary to deliver power to the parking space. Also referred to as “Behind 
the Meter” (BTM) infrastructure. 
 
Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment (EVSE): Equipment used for charging EVs. The conductors, including the 
ungrounded, grounded, and equipment grounding conductors, the electric vehicle chargers, connectors, attachment plugs, 
and all other fittings, devices, power outlets, or apparatuses installed specifically for the purpose of delivering energy from 
the Premises wiring to the electric vehicle. 
 
EVSE Package: EVSE hardware, software, and network services. 
 
EV Service Provider (EVSP): A company that provides EV charging solutions to Customer, including but not limited to 
network services, billing, and customer support. 
 
Operation and Maintenance (O&M): O&M includes, but is not limited to, network fees, resetting of breakers, replacement 
of parts, and associated services necessary to keep the EVSE and/or EV Supply Infrastructure operational. 
 
Premises: Premises includes all of the real property and apparatus employed in a single enterprise on an integral parcel of 
land undivided, excepting in the case of industrial, agricultural, oil field, resort enterprises, and public or quasi-public 
institutions, by a dedicated street, highway or public thoroughfare or railway. Automobile parking lots constituting a part of or 
adjacent to a single enterprise may be separated by an alley from the remainder of the Premises served. All Premises must 
be reviewed by PG&E to determine where service could be provided and at what cost. PG&E may agree to include some or 
all of the Premises in the EV Fleet Program. Multiple Premises may be listed in Exhibit A. 
 
Rate Plan: The PG&E electric rate that Customer pays for using EVSE. Detail on PG&E rates and eligibility criteria can be 
found at www.pge.com/tariffs. 
 
Customer: The entity participating in the EV Fleet Program that owns, leases, or manages the Premises where the EVSE 
Packages are installed. Customer will receive the bill for the energy delivered to the EVSE Package. 
 
Specific Terms 
 
Acknowledgement and Term: All parties agree to abide by the terms and conditions of this Contract for participation in the 
EV Fleet Program (part of California Public Utilities Commission, or “CPUC”, Decision Number 18-05-040 issued May 31, 
2018), including all requirements included by reference. The duration of this Contract (the “Term”) will commence on the 
date Customer’s EVSE Package becomes operational and will continue in effect for ten (10) years thereafter (unless 
otherwise earlier terminated pursuant to the terms herein). PG&E will inform Customer in writing when the EVSE Package 
becomes operational. 
 
Ownership: Customer has two options for ownership of EV Supply Infrastructure. Ownership of other components is listed 
below for reference. Sections in this Contract labeled “Customer Owned EV Supply Infrastructure” or “PG&E Owned EV 
Supply Infrastructure” will apply depending on the ownership option a Customer selects. Customer should indicate their 
ownership option in the Cover Letter provided to the customer. All other terms are common to both ownership options. 
 
103 of 162

--- page 104 ---
Clean Energy Transportation 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
300 Lakeside Drive 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
Contract version revised 11.2024 
Page 2 of 10 
EV Fleet Program Terms and Conditions (“Contract”) 
Between CITY OF SAN MATEO and Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
EV Service Connection: PG&E always constructs, owns, operates, and maintains the EV Service Connection when 
necessary. PG&E may opt to utilize existing infrastructure, including customer-owned conduits, in order to minimize project 
costs. This will be indicated in the accompanying Preliminary Design. In some cases,the customer may opt to use an 
existing service connection, in which case no work will be completed by PG&E. 
 
EV Supply Infrastructure: Customer may have two options for EV Supply Infrastructure ownership: 
1. 
PG&E Owned: PG&E constructs, owns, and maintains the EV Supply Infrastructure. PG&E covers costs in 
accordance with CPUC requirements. 
2. 
Customer Owned: Customer is responsible for construction and maintenance of EV Supply Infrastructure and 
receives an incentive in accordance with CPUC requirements. 
 
EV Supply Equipment (EVSE): Customer always installs, owns, operates, and maintains the EVSE. 
 
 
 
 
Selection of EVSE Package: Upon approval of application by PG&E, Customer shall select and procure an EVSE Package 
from the PG&E approved product list. PG&E will share approved product list with Customer. Customer shall install, operate, 
and maintain the number and type of the EVSE Package, associated equipment, and signage as selected by Customer and 
approved by PG&E. Customer acknowledges that PG&E makes no representations regarding manufacturers, dealers, 
contractors, materials, or workmanship of the EVSE Package. Customer agrees that PG&E has no liability whatsoever 
concerning the quality and safety of such EVSE Package. At PG&E sole discretion, Customer may use an EVSE Package 
that is not on the approved product list. If EVSE Package is not on the approved product list, EVSE Package must be 
compliant with minimum requirements. These minimum requirements are attached to this Contract, as applicable. In addition 
to these requirements, EVSE Package must be ISO15118-ready, with the exception of equipment that will be used to charge 
off-road vehicles. Customer agrees to provide all information requested by PG&E about non-approved EVSE Packages, 
including but not limited to technical and safety specifications. 
 
EVSE Rebate: Customer may qualify for a rebate of EVSE, in accordance with the CPUC requirements. Rebate amounts 
will vary in accordance with the CPUC requirements. Rebates will be paid after (1) Customer provides proof of purchase of 
EVSE Package, (2) at PG&E discretion PG&E inspects the installation of the EVSE and the physical location, and (3) the 
EVSE is operational. All EVSE rebate claims must be submitted no later than March 31, 2028. Any EVSE acquired after 
March 2028 will not be eligible for rebate. 
 
Additional Services from EVSP: Separate and apart from the application and PG&E’s obligations under the EV Fleet 
Program, the EVSP selected by Customer may offer and contract directly with the Customer to provide any additional or 
complementary services, as long as these services do not interfere with the objectives of the EV Fleet Program as fully 
described in the CPUC decision. The costs of additional EVSP services, and any cost related to O&M of any additional 
EVSP services, will not be borne by PG&E, unless they are complementary services necessary to support the EV Fleet 
Program objectives and are approved by PG&E in writing. 
 
EV Drivers’ Right to Access: Customer shall not restrict access to or use of the EVSE for reasons including, but not limited 
to, race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin, ancestry, physical or mental disability, or any basis prohibited by applicable 
law. However, Customer may decide to make the EVSE available only to its employees, tenants, or lessors; under the terms 
of the EV Fleet Program, Customer decides whether to make the EVSE available to other 3rd parties. 
104 of 162

--- page 105 ---
Clean Energy Transportation 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
300 Lakeside Drive 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
Contract version revised 11.2024 
Page 3 of 10 
EV Fleet Program Terms and Conditions (“Contract”) 
Between CITY OF SAN MATEO and Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
 
Accessibility Requirements: The installation of the EVSE and EV Service Connection is required to comply with the 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and California Building Standards. Customer understands and accepts that such 
standards may impact parking layouts and reduce the number of non-accessible parking spaces available. Customer 
understands and accepts that changes to initial design representations may occur during the design, construction, and 
operational phases of the EVSE as may be dictated by design constraints, by law or regulation, or by local jurisdictional 
authorities. 
 
Easement Requirement: An easement may be required to maintain PG&E owned facilities. PG&E will use existing 
easements when possible to minimize encumbrances on Customer property. If a new easement is required, access rights 
will follow standard utility requirements for providing electrical service. PG&E will determine if a new easement is required 
when Customer application is evaluated and will communicate that to Customer. If Customer does not wish to grant an 
easement for one or more Premises, PG&E may remove those Premises from the EV Fleet program. If Customer accepts 
easement requirements, Customer agrees to grant PG&E an easement for the installation of EV Service Connection and EV 
Supply Infrastructure. If the EV Service Connection must cross property owned by a third party to serve Customer, PG&E 
may, at its option, install such EV Service Connection after appropriate rights of way or easements, satisfactory to PG&E, 
are obtained without cost to PG&E. Customer is responsible for coordinating attainment of any easements. Customer 
agrees to sign and return easement to PG&E within 30 days of receipt. If the Customer does not respond within 30 days, 
PG&E reserves the right to rescind Customer’s participation in the EV Fleet Program and recover all costs incurred. Upon 
termination of the Contract, PG&E shall upon written demand therefore execute and deliver to Customer a good and 
sufficient quitclaim of said easement and right of way or such portion thereof conveyed in this document, at Customer 
expense. 
 
EVSE O&M: The Customer is required to maintain the EVSE for the Term.  Customer will pay all O&M costs associated with 
the EVSE.  Customer shall maintain a consistent uptime at the direction of PG&E for EVSE installed. Customer shall 
maintain the common area improvements immediately surrounding the EVSE in good condition, ordinary wear and tear 
excepted, and will promptly notify PG&E of any problems it is aware of related to the EVSE. Such maintenance by Customer 
of the immediately surrounding common areas shall include, but not be limited to, pavement maintenance and snow removal 
services, if applicable. Uninterrupted service is not guaranteed, and PG&E may interrupt service when necessary to ensure 
safety or to perform maintenance on PG&E owned infrastructure. PG&E will use reasonable efforts to notify Customer in 
advance of interruptions to service, planned maintenance, and physical access to Premises. Customer will immediately shut 
down chargers if there is a safety issue. 
 
Billing: Customer will be the PG&E Customer and will be served according to the applicable Rate Plan. As the Customer, 
Customer will be responsible for paying the PG&E bill. 
  
Compensation: Under no conditions shall Customer or EV Drivers receive compensation of any kind (including but not 
limited to: cash, in-kind services, or otherwise) for any duties or requirements provided for in this Contract or for participation 
in any way as part of the EV Fleet Program, including but not limited to: easements, use of data for lawful purposes, loss of 
business activity during construction or maintenance activities, or any other inconvenience or loss, without limitation, related 
to participation. 
 
Changing Rate Plan: Customer may change Rate Plan during the Term but must remain on a retail PG&E rate for the 
duration of the Term. If Customer switches to a non-retail PG&E rate during the Term, Customer shall bear the full cost and 
sole expense, as circumstances may dictate, for losses incurred by PG&E on behalf of ratepayers, such as pro-rated costs 
of equipment, site design, and installation. 
 
Reliability: PG&E does not guarantee uninterrupted service. Customer may pursue options to ensure that any impact to 
Customer operations from potential loss of power is sufficiently mitigated. Customer is responsible for the cost of any 
supplemental solutions to improve reliability. 
 
Expansion of EVSE Installation: Customer may add more charging ports to their installation in the future, in accordance 
with the provisions of CPUC filed tariffs such as Electric Rule 16. Customer must coordinate with PG&E prior to any 
approved installation extension. Any installations or related work performed outside of EV Fleet program will be at 
Customer’s expense and its liability. 
 
EVSE Replacement: Customer may replace their EVSE during the Term. Customer must notify PG&E ahead of 
replacement to ensure infrastructure can accommodate the additional load and new EVSE complies with necessary CPUC 
requirements for the program. If adequate infrastructure does not exist, Customer must request increased capacity in 
105 of 162

--- page 106 ---
Clean Energy Transportation 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
300 Lakeside Drive 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
Contract version revised 11.2024 
Page 4 of 10 
EV Fleet Program Terms and Conditions (“Contract”) 
Between CITY OF SAN MATEO and Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
accordance with the provisions of CPUC filed tariffs such as Electric Rule 16. Any replacements will be at Customer’s 
expense and its liability. 
 
Vehicle Purchase Plans: PG&E will work with Customer to understand its fleet electrification plans and may install 
infrastructure to support future vehicle purchases. In Exhibit A, Customer will provide the number, type, and charging levels 
of electric vehicles that will be used at the Premises over time to justify the requested infrastructure. At PG&E discretion, 
during the Term PG&E may request evidence that Customer is operating these vehicles and associated charging in 
accordance with its electrification plan. If Customer is not operating vehicles consistent with its electrification plans, at PG&E 
discretion, Customer may be responsible for PG&E costs associated with installing the excess infrastructure. This includes 
costs, as circumstances may dictate, for losses incurred by PG&E on behalf of ratepayers, such as costs of equipment, site 
design and installation. Customer may, at any time within the Term request from PG&E projected and final costs associated 
with this. If Customer wishes to change its plan, Customer must provide a modified plan to PG&E. This modified plan must 
be mutually agreed upon by PG&E and Customer. Customer may opt to replace these vehicles with similar equipment but 
must operate the number and type of vehicles outlined in the electrification plan. Vehicles that are leased must be replaced 
with similar equipment upon termination of the lease duration. 
 
If Customer is not the party responsible for purchasing or leasing the vehicles indicated in Exhibit A, they will acquire and 
provide such proof from the responsible party including the number, type, and charging levels of electric vehicles that will be 
used at the Premises over time to justify the requested infrastructure. Customer is responsible to provide evidence of vehicle 
operation and associated charging during this term in accordance with the indicated electrification plans. If vehicles are not 
operating consistent with the indicated electrification plans, at PG&E discretion, Customer may be responsible for PG&E 
costs associated with installing the excess infrastructure. This includes costs, as circumstances may dictate, for losses 
incurred by PG&E on behalf of ratepayers, such as costs of equipment, site design, and installation. 
 
Project Scope: Customer acknowledges that: 
• 
Customer agrees to the high-level project scope listed in Exhibit A; 
• 
Upon execution of this Contract, PG&E will begin incurring design fees and costs as Customer project moves 
forward; 
• 
If Customer withdraws from the program, then PG&E reserves the right to recover all fees and costs incurred by it 
and its subcontractors after the execution of this Contract including, but not limited to, design cost, site walk costs, 
etc.; 
• 
PG&E will conduct a site walk; 
• 
If the existing infrastructure or physical site or equipment is substantially different than anticipated or described, 
then PG&E will make reasonable effort to redesign the project in a manner acceptable to both parties, but reserves 
the right to cancel Customer participation in the program; and 
• 
If Customer does not submit required documentation (e.g., signed easement if needed) in a timely manner, then 
PG&E may grant extensions by request but reserves the right to waitlist Customer application and/or cancel 
participation in the program. 
 
External Funding Sources: Customer understands that the total infrastructure and EVSE rebate and incentive amounts the 
Customer receives from all sources, which may include but is not limited to, utilities, state programs, manufacturer, retailer, 
or otherwise, cannot exceed Customer’s total cost of purchasing the EVSE, installing the EVSE, and constructing the EV 
Supply Infrastructure. 
 
Customer agrees to keep records of all infrastructure and EVSE incentives and rebates received for Customer’s EV Fleet 
project. Customer understands that PG&E may request and review said records up to one year after project completion 
date. If rebates and incentives received exceed incurred project cost, PG&E may inform all other funding sources, which 
may include but is not limited to, utilities, state programs, manufacturer, retailer, or other, of the violation, including the name 
of the Customer, a description of the project, and details regarding the excessive rebates and incentives. 
 
Customer Owned EV Supply Infrastructure Section 
 
EV Supply Infrastructure Incentive: Customer qualifies for an incentive towards the cost of EV Supply Infrastructure if they 
choose to own and maintain the EV Supply Infrastructure. Incentive amounts will vary in accordance with the CPUC 
requirements. Incentive will be paid after (1) Customer provides proof of actual EV Supply Infrastructure construction cost, 
(2) EV Supply Infrastructure construction is complete, (3) the EVSE is operational. 
 
106 of 162

--- page 107 ---
Clean Energy Transportation 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
300 Lakeside Drive 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
Contract version revised 11.2024 
Page 5 of 10 
EV Fleet Program Terms and Conditions (“Contract”) 
Between CITY OF SAN MATEO and Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
Installation of EV Service Connection: PG&E and/or its contractors shall design and construct the EV Service Connection 
in compliance with the terms of this Contract, as well as all applicable local, state, and federal laws and regulatory 
requirements. Customer is responsible for providing all disclosures, including but not limited to hazardous materials located 
at the site of the installation. If an easement is required, PG&E will provide a preliminary layout of proposed facilities to 
Customer prior to preparation of easement for Customer review and approval; such approval will not unreasonably be 
withheld.  The easement will be executed and recorded in favor of PG&E so that PG&E may access the EV Service 
Connection as needed. It will be the Customer’s responsibility to provide a preliminary design of the EV Supply Infrastructure 
and associated electrical loads so that PG&E can provide the associated EV Service Connection design. PG&E and 
Customer will approve final design prior to construction beginning. Once design is approved, no material changes will be 
made without approval from PG&E and Customer. After the EVSE is operational, Customer may request a copy of “as built” 
designs, which will be provided by PG&E. 
 
Installation of EV Supply Infrastructure: The Customer and/or its contractors shall construct the EV Supply Infrastructure 
and install the EVSE in compliance with the terms of this Contract, as well as all applicable local, state, and federal laws and 
regulatory requirements, including PG&E requirements found at www.pge.com/greenbook. The Customer is responsible for 
(i) the costs to construct the EV Supply Infrastructure, (ii) the purchase of the EVSE Package, and (iii) installation of the 
EVSE. After the EVSE is operational, Customer receives incentive for EV Supply Infrastructure in accordance with terms of 
this Contract. 
 
EV Supply Infrastructure O&M: If Customer owns the EV Supply Infrastructure, Customer is responsible for O&M of the 
EV Supply Infrastructure for the Term.  Customer will pay all O&M costs associated with the EV Supply Infrastructure.  
Customer shall maintain the common area improvements immediately surrounding the EV Supply Infrastructure in good 
condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, and will promptly notify PG&E of any problems it is aware of related to the EV 
Supply Infrastructure.  Such maintenance by Customer of the immediately surrounding common areas shall include, but not 
be limited to, pavement maintenance and snow removal services, if applicable. Uninterrupted service is not guaranteed, and 
PG&E may interrupt service when necessary to ensure safety or to perform maintenance. PG&E will use reasonable efforts 
to notify Customer in advance of interruptions to service, planned maintenance, and physical access to Premises. 
 
Access to Customers Premises: PG&E shall at all times have the right to enter and leave the Customer’s Premises for 
any purpose connected with the furnishing of electric service to the EV Service Connection (meter reading, inspection, 
testing, routine repairs, replacement, maintenance, vegetation management, emergency work, etc.) and the exercise of any 
and all rights secured to it by law, or under PG&E's applicable tariff schedules. If Customer does not grant PG&E reasonable 
access to the Premises, then PG&E may deenergize the EV Service Connection until access is granted. PG&E will work 
closely with Customer to ensure this access does not unreasonably interfere with Customer’s property or operations. 
 
End of Term: At the end of the Term, the Customer will have the following options: 
1. 
Continue operating EVSE and EV Supply Infrastructure 
o 
Customer has continued responsibility for O&M of EVSE and EV Supply Infrastructure. 
o 
If an easement was required for installation, easement remains in place. 
o 
PG&E continues to own EV Service Connection and will treat this under the standard provisions of CPUC 
filed tariffs such as Electric Rule 16. 
2. 
Stop operating EVSE and EV Supply Infrastructure 
o 
Remove the EVSE and/or EV Supply Infrastructure at Customer’s cost and expense. 
o 
If an easement was required for installation, PG&E will deliver a quitclaim for the easement and the 
easement will be removed. 
o 
PG&E will require access to any energized PG&E facilities. If EV Service Connection serves other load or 
assets, for example building load or solar, PG&E continues to own EV Service Connection and will treat 
this under the standard provisions of CPUC filed tariffs such as Electric Rule 16. If EV Service Connection 
serves only the EVSE installed under this Contract, PG&E will deenergize EV Service Connection and 
abandon facilities in place. 
 
PG&E Owned EV Supply Infrastructure Section 
 
Installation of Equipment: PG&E and/or its contractors shall design and construct the EV Service Connection and EV 
Supply Infrastructure in compliance with the terms of this Contract, as well as all applicable local, state, and federal laws and 
regulatory requirements. Customer is responsible for providing all disclosures, including but not limited to hazardous 
materials located at the site of the installation. If an easement is required, PG&E will provide a preliminary layout of 
proposed facilities to Customer prior to preparation of easement for Customer review and approval; such approval will not 
107 of 162

--- page 108 ---
Clean Energy Transportation 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
300 Lakeside Drive 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
Contract version revised 11.2024 
Page 6 of 10 
EV Fleet Program Terms and Conditions (“Contract”) 
Between CITY OF SAN MATEO and Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
unreasonably be withheld.  The easement will be executed and recorded in favor of PG&E so that PG&E may access the EV 
Service Connection and EV Supply Infrastructure as needed. After Customer approval of the preliminary design, PG&E will 
coordinate with the Customer if there are any proposed material changes. A final design with no material changes from the 
agreed upon design will be provided by PG&E prior to any installation activities. PG&E and Customer will approve final 
design prior to construction beginning.  Once design is approved, no material changes will be made without approval from 
PG&E and Customer.  An estimated installation schedule shall be provided by PG&E after execution of required easement 
and timely selection of EVSE Package. Should the installation schedule require modification, PG&E shall notify Customer 
within a reasonable amount of time of such changes. PG&E is responsible for the costs to construct the EV Supply 
Infrastructure. The Customer is responsible for (i) the purchase of the EVSE Package and (ii) installation of the EVSE. Upon 
completion of installation of the EVSE, the Customer understands and acknowledges that it will be responsible for the O&M 
of the EVSE installed through the EV Fleet Program. After the EVSE is operational, Customer may request a copy of “as 
built” designs, which will be provided by PG&E. 
 
EV Supply Infrastructure O&M: If PG&E owns the EV Supply Infrastructure, PG&E is responsible for O&M of the EV 
Supply Infrastructure for the Term.  PG&E will pay all O&M costs associated with the EV Supply Infrastructure.  Customer 
shall maintain the common area improvements immediately surrounding the EV Supply Infrastructure in good condition, 
ordinary wear and tear excepted, and will promptly notify PG&E of any problems it is aware of related to the EV Supply 
Infrastructure. Such maintenance by Customer of the immediately surrounding common areas shall include, but not be 
limited to, pavement maintenance and snow removal services, if applicable. Uninterrupted service is not guaranteed, and 
PG&E may interrupt service when necessary to ensure safety or to perform maintenance. PG&E will use reasonable efforts 
to notify Customer in advance of interruptions to service, planned maintenance, and physical access to Premises. 
 
Access to Customers Premises: PG&E shall at all times have the right to enter and leave the Customer’s Premises for 
any purpose connected with the furnishing of electric service to the EV Service Connection (meter reading, inspection, 
testing, routine repairs, replacement, maintenance, vegetation management, emergency work, etc.) and the exercise of any 
and all rights secured to it by law, or under PG&E's applicable tariff schedules. If Customer does not grant PG&E reasonable 
access to the Premises, then PG&E may deenergize the EV Service Connection until access is granted. PG&E will work 
closely with Customer to ensure this access does not unreasonably interfere with Customer’s property or operations.  
 
End of Term: At the end of the Term, the Customer will have the following options: 
1. 
Continue operating EVSE 
o 
Customer has continued responsibility for O&M of EVSE. 
o 
If an easement was required for installation, easement remains in place. 
o 
PG&E continues to own EV Service Connection and EV Supply Infrastructure and will treat these under 
the standard provisions of CPUC filed tariffs such as Electric Rule 16. 
2. 
Stop operating EVSE 
o 
Remove the EVSE at Customer’s cost and expense. 
o 
If an easement was required for installation, PG&E will deliver a quitclaim for the easement and the 
easement will be removed. 
o 
PG&E will require access to any energized PG&E facilities. If EV Service Connection and/or EV Supply 
Infrastructure serves other load or assets, for example solar, PG&E continues to own EV Service 
Connection and/or EV Supply Infrastructure and will treat these under the standard provisions of CPUC 
filed tariffs such as Electric Rule 16. If EV Service Connection and/or EV Supply Infrastructure serves only 
the EVSE installed under this Contract, PG&E will deenergize EV Service Connection and EV Supply 
Infrastructure and abandon facilities in place. 
 
General Terms 
 
Permission to Use Data: Customer agrees to allow PG&E and its agents and representatives to use data gathered as part 
of the EV Fleet Program (including usage data from the EVSE and EVSE performance data supplied directly to PG&E from 
the EVSP) (“Usage Data”) for use in regulatory reporting, ordinary business use, industry forums, case studies, or other 
similar activities, in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.  Usage Data furnished to PG&E by the EVSP will not 
include any personal information as defined for the purposes of California privacy laws (including the California Privacy 
Rights Act, as amended(“CPRA”)).  Any such personal data will be deidentified (as defined by CPRA) before it is provided to 
PG&E.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, Customer acknowledges that PG&E is required to disclose location data at census 
tract or 5-digit zip code level as part of its regulatory obligations to report aggregate data.  Although such locations will not 
be identified as Customer locations in the aggregated and anonymous data disclosed by PG&E, a third party could 
potentially associate Customer with disclosed locations by reference to other facts and data sources. 
108 of 162

--- page 109 ---
Clean Energy Transportation 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
300 Lakeside Drive 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
Contract version revised 11.2024 
Page 7 of 10 
EV Fleet Program Terms and Conditions (“Contract”) 
Between CITY OF SAN MATEO and Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
 
Representations: Customer understands that its participation in EV Fleet Program shall not be construed as creating any 
agency, partnership, or other form of joint enterprise between the Customer, PG&E, or their affiliates, contractors, vendors, 
representatives, or designees, nor create any obligations or responsibilities on their behalf except as may be expressly 
granted in writing, nor make any representations of any kind to this effect. Customer represents and warrants that it is either 
(i) the fee title owner and has the ability to grant an easement (if required), or (ii) it is the authorized manager of the 
proposed EV Fleet Program site working with the fee title owner, it has the power, authority, and capacity to bind itself to 
undertake the EV Fleet Program terms and conditions and to perform each and every obligation required of Customer, and 
such fee title owner has the ability to grant an easement (if needed).  
Changes: PG&E may initiate changes to the EV Fleet Program as necessary to comply with CPUC directives. PG&E shall 
endeavor to provide Customer with advance notice of any such changes. Customer has the option to opt out of the Program 
subject to section “Customer Removal or Termination” below. 
Compliance with Laws: All parties shall comply with all applicable federal, state, and local statutes, rules, regulations, laws, 
orders, and decisions that relate to or govern its participation in the EV Fleet Program and/or Customer’s interactions with 
customers in connection with the EV Fleet Program. 
Failure to Comply with Terms and Conditions: Without limitation, and to the greatest extent allowed by law, PG&E and 
Customer reserve the right to seek damages and recovery for losses incurred due to any breach of this Contract on the part 
of Customer or PG&E, whether intentional or unintentional. 
Relocations: Should Customer request relocation of EVSE or parts thereof, such relocation shall be per mutually agreeable 
terms and shall be at sole expense of Customer and in accordance with any EV Fleet Program requirements, laws, 
regulations, or other applicable jurisdictional requirements. Additionally, if applicable and requested by PG&E, Customer 
shall either amend the easement to include the legal description of the new location or enter into a new easement with 
PG&E. 
 
PG&E Termination or Suspension: PG&E may terminate, or for any duration suspend, Customer’s participation in the EV 
Fleet Program, with or without cause, at any time, and for any reason, with reasonable advance notice. Such reasons may 
include but are not limited to failure to provide or maintain terms of easement, failure to abide by EV Fleet Program terms 
and conditions, permitting issues, exceptional installation costs, environmental concerns, or any other reason(s) not in the 
best interests of the EV Fleet Program or PG&E’s ratepayers. 
Customer Removal or Termination: Should Customer request removal or termination of EVSE or parts thereof prior to 
expiration of the Term, then Customer shall bear the full cost and sole expense of such removal as well as all fees and 
costs, as circumstances may dictate, for losses incurred by PG&E on behalf of ratepayers, such as pro-rated costs of 
equipment, site design, and installation. Customer may, at any time within the Term, request from PG&E projected and final 
costs associated with such a removal request. Such costs will include all amounts paid by PG&E, divided equally over a ten-
year period (e.g., if amounts total $100k and Customer leaves after 1 year it is responsible for $90k). If the Customer wishes 
to assign its rights and obligations of this Contract to a new Customer prior to the expiration of the Term, the new Customer 
may assume all rights and obligations for the remaining Term with PG&E consent. Such consent not to be unreasonably 
withheld. 
Indemnification: Customer shall indemnify, hold harmless, and defend PG&E, its affiliates, subsidiaries, parent company, 
officers, managers, directors, agents, and employees, from and against all claims, demands, losses, damages, costs, 
expenses, and liability (legal, contractual, or otherwise), which arise from or are in any way connected with any: (i) injury to 
or death of persons, including but not limited to employees of PG&E or Customer; (ii) injury to property or other interests of 
PG&E, Customer, or any third party; (iii) violation of a local, state, or federal common law, statute, or regulation, including 
but not limited to environmental laws or regulations; or (iv) strict liability imposed by any law or regulation; so long as such 
injury, violation, or strict liability (as set forth in (i) - (iv) above) arises from or is in any way connected with Customer’s 
performance of, or failure to perform, this Contract. This indemnification obligation shall not apply to the extent that such 
injury, loss, or damage is caused by the negligence or willful misconduct of PG&E, its officers, managers, or employees. 
 
Customer shall, on PG&E's request, defend any action, claim, or suit asserting a claim which might be covered by this 
indemnity, using counsel acceptable to PG&E. Customer shall pay all costs and expenses that may be incurred by PG&E in 
enforcing this indemnity, including reasonable attorney's fees. To the extent necessary, each Party was represented by 
counsel in the negotiation and execution of this Contract. PG&E represents and warrants that it has indemnification 
language in its contract with any third party who PG&E may send to perform work on Customer’s physical site. PG&E 
agrees to work closely with Customer on any concerns that may arise related to the party who will perform work on 
Customer’s physical site. 
 
Insurance Requirements: Customer shall procure, carry, and maintain the following insurance coverage, and Customer is 
also responsible for its Subcontractors maintaining sufficient limits of the appropriate insurance coverage: 
 
109 of 162

--- page 110 ---
Clean Energy Transportation 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
300 Lakeside Drive 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
Contract version revised 11.2024 
Page 8 of 10 
EV Fleet Program Terms and Conditions (“Contract”) 
Between CITY OF SAN MATEO and Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
A. Personal Liability 
 
1. 
The limit shall not be less than One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) each occurrence for bodily injury, property 
damage and personal injury. 
2. 
Coverage shall:  a) By "Additional Insured" endorsement add as insureds PG&E, its directors, officers, agents, 
and employees with respect to liability arising out of work performed by or for the Customer; b) Be endorsed to 
specify that the Customer insurance is primary and that any insurance or self-insurance maintained by PG&E 
shall not contribute with it. 
 
B. Workers’ Compensation and Employers’ Liability 
 
1. 
Workers’ Compensation insurance or self-insurance indicating compliance with any applicable labor codes, acts, 
laws, or statutes, state or federal, where Customer performs Work. 
2. 
Employers’ Liability insurance shall not be less than $1,000,000 for injury or death in each accident.  
 
C. Commercial General Liability 
 
1. 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as the Insurance Services Office (ISO) Commercial General Liability 
Coverage “occurrence” form, with no coverage deletions.  
2. 
The limit shall not be less than $1,000,000 each occurrence for bodily injury, property damage and personal injury.  
3. 
Coverage shall:  a) by “Additional Insured” endorsement add as insureds PG&E, its affiliates, subsidiaries, and 
parent company, and PG&E’s directors, officers, agents, and employees with respect to liability arising out of or 
connected with the Work performed by or for the Customer.  (ISO Form CG2010 or equivalent is preferred.)  In the 
event the Commercial General Liability policy includes a “blanket endorsement by contract,” the following 
language added to the certificate of insurance will satisfy PG&E’s additional insured requirement:  “PG&E, its 
affiliates, subsidiaries, and parent company, and PG&E’s directors, officers, agents, and employees with respect 
to liability arising out of the work performed by or for the Customer are additional insureds under a blanket 
endorsement.”; b) be endorsed to specify that the Customer’s insurance is primary and that any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by PG&E shall not contribute with it.  
 
 
D. Documentation Requirements 
 
1. 
Customer shall have all insurance in place before beginning any Work.  Upon request, Customer shall furnish 
PG&E with certificates of insurance, declaration pages and endorsements (collectively, “Documentation”) of all 
required insurance.  Documentation shall be signed and submitted by a person authorized by that insurer to issue 
certificates of insurance and endorsements on its behalf. 
2. 
The insurer shall deliver notification to PG&E in accordance with the policy provisions if any of the above-
described policies are cancelled before the stated expiration date. 
3. 
PG&E may inspect the original policies in Sections A or B or require copies at any time. Customer/Owner may 
redact non-essential exposure information from copies. 
4. 
The minimum liability insurance requirements established in this Contract are not a representation by PG&E that 
the insurance limits are sufficient, nor do these requirements in any way limit Customer’s liability under this 
Contract.    
5. 
Upon request, Customer shall furnish PG&E the same evidence of insurance for its Subcontractors as PG&E 
requires of Customer. 
 
Dispute Resolution: After attempting in good faith to resolve a dispute, a party may request mediation by written notice to 
the other Party.  The mediation shall be conducted by a mutually-agreeable mediator with appropriate experience.  All 
negotiations and any mediation conducted pursuant to this provision are confidential and shall be treated as compromise 
and settlement negotiations, to which Section 1119 of the California Evidence Code shall apply, and Section 1119 is 
incorporated herein by reference. 
 
No Partnership: This Contract shall not be construed as creating a partnership, joint venture, agency relationship, 
franchise, or association, nor shall this Contract render PG&E and Customer liable as partners, co-ventures, or principals. 
 
Enforceability: If any of the provisions, or application of any of the provisions, of this Contract are held to be illegal or 
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, PG&E and Customer shall negotiate an equitable adjustment in the provisions of 
this Contract with a view toward effectuating the purpose of this Contract.  The illegality or invalidity of any of the provisions, 
110 of 162

--- page 111 ---
Clean Energy Transportation 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
300 Lakeside Drive 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
Contract version revised 11.2024 
Page 9 of 10 
EV Fleet Program Terms and Conditions (“Contract”) 
Between CITY OF SAN MATEO and Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
or application of any of the provisions, of this Contract will not affect the legality or enforceability of the remaining provisions 
or application of any of the provisions of the Contract. 
 
Integration: This Contract, including all items incorporated herein by reference, constitutes the entire agreement and 
understanding between the parties as to the subject matter of the Contract.  It supersedes all prior or contemporaneous 
agreements, commitments, representations, writings, and discussions between parties, whether oral or written, express or 
implied, that relate in any way to the subject matter of this Contract. This Contract has been induced by no representations, 
statements, or agreements other than those expressed herein.  Neither party shall be bound by any prior or 
contemporaneous obligations, conditions, warranties, or representations with respect to the subject matter of this Contract. 
 
Survival: The provisions of this Contract, which by their nature should survive expiration, cancellation, or other termination 
of this Contract, including but not limited to provisions regarding warranty, indemnity, insurance, confidentiality, document 
retention, business ethics, and availability of information, shall survive such expiration, cancellation, or other termination. 
 
Notice: Any and all notices shall be in writing and addressed to the parties at the addresses specified below or such other 
addresses as either party may direct by notice given in accordance with this section and shall be delivered in one of the 
following manners: (i) by personal delivery, in which case notice shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered; 
(ii) by certified mail, return receipt requested, with postage prepaid, in which case notice shall be deemed to have been duly 
given on the date indicated on the return receipt; or (iii) by reputable delivery service (including by way of example and not 
limitation Federal Express, UPS and DHL) which makes a record of the date and time of delivery, in which case notice shall 
be deemed to have been duly given on the date indicated on the delivery service’s record of delivery. 
 
If to PG&E:  
 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
Attn:  EV Fleet Program Manager 
300 Lakeside Drive 
Oakland, CA 94612 
Email Address: EVChargeNetwork@pge.com 
 
If to Customer:  
Customer CompanyInput 
(Company Name) 
Customer AddressInput 
(Street Address) 
Customer CityZipInput 
(City, Zip) 
Customer NameInput 
(Name) 
 
The Parties have executed this Contract on the dates indicated below, to be effective upon the later date. 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Company Name 
 
PG&E Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
PG&E Company Name 
 
Customer Signature2 
Signature 
 
PG&E Signature 
Signature 
 
Customer Print2 
Print 
 
PG&E Print 
Print 
 
Customer Title2 
Title 
 
PG&E Title 
PG&E Contract Signer Title 
 
Customer SignedDate2 
Date 
 
PG&E SignedDate 
Date 
 
 
 
111 of 162

--- page 112 ---
Clean Energy Transportation 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
300 Lakeside Drive 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
Contract version revised 11.2024 
Page 10 of 10 
EV Fleet Program Terms and Conditions (“Contract”) 
Between CITY OF SAN MATEO and Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
EXHIBIT A 
 
PROJECT SCOPE 
1961 PACIFIC BOULEVARD, SAN MATEO, CA 94403 
 
Vehicle Summary 
 
Description 
2025 
2026 
2027 
2028 
2029 
Total 
Medium Duty Vehicle 
1 
1 
0 
4 
0 
6 
 
Charger (EVSE) Summary 
 
Description 
2025 
2026 
2027 
2028 
2029 
Total 
33.2 kW 
6 
0 
0 
0 
0 
6 EVSEs 
Anticipated Load (kW) 
199.2 kW 
0 kW 
0 kW 
0 kW 
0 kW 
199.2 kW 
 
Please note that your project was scoped based on the make, model, and power level of your EV chargers, as 
described in the preliminary design. Changes to your EV charger selection may impact the charger load of your 
project. If you would like to change your charger selection, please consult with your Project Manager 
before charger purchase so they can ensure the alternative chargers will be compatible with your 
project’s design. PG&E reserves the right to recover additional costs associated with any changes you request 
to your project scope. 
 
 
 
Service Description 
Main Service Size (Amps) 
800 
Voltage and Phase 
208/120V Three Phase 
 
 
 
 
112 of 162

--- page 113 ---
Clean Energy Transportation 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
300 Lakeside Drive 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
 
Page 1 of 2 
Appendix A 
 
Appendix A 
 
PG&E EV FLEET PROGRAM PARTICIPANT DATA REPORTING REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
EV Fleet program participants are required to provide site, equipment, and utilization data for at least 5 years from the 
time chargers are operational. Sites are required to install chargers with Application Program Interface (API) 
communication capability.  
 
Below are the data and metrics that may be collected by PG&E through the API. PG&E will contact EVSPs after 
EVSEs are activated to initiate API testing. Upon activation, Customer must give consent to their EVSP to provide 
API data to PG&E and its agents and representatives. 
 
Customer agrees to receive and respond to customer surveys throughout the project lifecycle including post-
installation, upon request of PG&E or an associated party. 
 
Off-road vehicles: Sites with off-road vehicles are excluded from API requirements but must install a separate meter 
that is dedicated for EV charging. In addition, due to the need for PG&E to report charger usage data to the CPUC, 
no form of generation or distributed generation (including solar and battery storage) may be installed onto this meter 
panel until five years after the date of project activation. 
113 of 162

--- page 114 ---
Clean Energy Transportation 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
300 Lakeside Drive 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
 
Page 2 of 2 
Appendix A 
Table 1. Data collected from API 
Category 
Metrics 
Site 
• Pricing Structure ($/kWh, $/hour, subscription, free, flat fee, other) (for public 
charging stations only) 
• Street Address 
• City 
• State 
• Zip Code 
Equipment 
 
• EVSE Manufacturer 
• EVSE Model 
• EVSE Model number 
• EVSE Serial Number 
• EVSE ID (for public charging stations only) 
• Demand Max (Maximum rated kW for each EVSE) 
• Number of ports on associated EVSE 
• Gateway or non-gateway 
Sessions 
Data for each charging session that 
occurs at the site 
• Maximum rated kW of each port 
• Start date and time of session 
• End date and time of session 
• Equipment outages 
• Reason for outage 
• Date and time of when outage started 
• Date and time of when outage ended 
• Number of kWh consumed during the session 
• Average demand (kW) per session 
• Maximum demand (kW) per session 
• Total dollar amount charged to the driver for the charging session (for public 
charging stations only) 
• Demand charge ($/kW) (for public charging stations only) 
• Payment type (for public charging stations only) 
• Anonymous unique driver ID for each driver/user 
• Vehicle Make 
• Vehicle Model 
• Vehicle Year 
• Vehicle Type (BEV, PHEV) 
Session Intervals 
15-minute interval data for each 
charging session 
• Start date and time of interval 
• End date and time of interval 
• Number of kWh consumed during the session interval 
• Average demand (kW) per session interval 
• Maximum demand (kW) per session interval 
Port Intervals 
15-minute interval data for each port 
each day (96 intervals/port/day) 
• Start date and time of interval 
• End date and time of interval 
• Number of kWh consumed during the interval 
• Average demand (kW) per interval 
• Maximum demand (kW) per interval 
 
114 of 162

--- page 115 ---
Clean Energy Transportation 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
300 Lakeside Drive 
Oakland, CA 94612 
 
 
Page 1 of 4 
Appendix B 
 
Appendix B 
 
 
CPUC’S SAFETY REQUIREMENTS CHECKLIST FOR CPUC-APPROVED 
TRANSPORTATION ELECTRIFICATION PROGRAMS 
 
 
115 of 162

--- page 116 ---
Transportation Electrification Safety Requirements Checklist D.18-01-024/D.18-05-040  
Page 2 of 4 
Appendix B 
SAFETY REQUIREMENTS CHECKLIST FOR CPUC-APPROVED 
TRANSPORTATION ELECTRIFICATION PROGRAMS 
 
[Note: Each sponsoring utility must ensure that the following Pre-construction, Construction, and Operational 
standards are met and report on their compliance at quarterly Program Advisory Council meetings. These 
requirements are the minimum safety precautions the utilities should meet.]  
 
Terminology Defined1  
Acronym 
Definition 
EV  
Electric Vehicle  
UL  
Underwriters Laboratory  
EVSE  
Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment safely connects the AC 
electricity grid at a site to the EV. Sometimes used more 
broadly to refer to the charging equipment, not including 
the make- ready infrastructure or other charging 
infrastructure. May include multiple connectors to charge 
several EVs or to serve EVs with different types of 
connectors (e.g., SAE CCS and CHAdeMO)  
SAE  
Society of Automotive Engineers  
ADA  
Americans with Disabilities Act  
AHJ  
Authority Having Jurisdiction, as defined by Article 100 of 
the 2017 National Electric Code: An organization, office, or 
individual responsible for enforcing the requirements of a 
code or standard, or for approving equipment, materials, an 
installation, or a procedure.2  
J-1772 Standard  
An SAE standard for electrical and physical interface to 
facilitate a safe connection from the EVSE for conductive 
charging 
 
 
1 See D.18-01-024 at Appendix A.  
2 2017 NEC Article 100, Definitions, includes an informational note regarding AHJ: “The phrase ‘authority having 
jurisdiction’ or its acronym AHJ, is used in National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) documents in a broad manner, 
since jurisdictions and approval agencies vary, as do their responsibilities. Where public safety is primary, the authority 
having jurisdiction may be a federal, state, local, or other regional department or individual such as a fire chief; fire 
marshal; chief of a fire prevention bureau, labor department, or health department; building official; electrical inspector; 
or others having statutory authority. For insurance purposes, an insurance inspection department, rating bureau, or other 
insurance company representative may be the authority having jurisdiction. In many circumstances, the property owner 
or his or her designated agent assumes the role of the authority having jurisdiction; at government installations, the 
commanding officer or departmental official may be the authority having jurisdiction.”   
 
116 of 162

--- page 117 ---
Transportation Electrification Safety Requirements Checklist D.18-01-024/D.18-05-040  
Page 3 of 4 
Appendix B 
 
Acronym 
Definition 
Level 1 Charging  
Charging via AC electrical connection at 120 volts and up to 16 
amps, or 1.9 kW.  
Level 2 Charging  
Charging via AC electrical connection at 208 volts or 240 volts at up 
to 80 amps.  
DC Fast Charging  
Charging via DC electrical connection using off-board AC/DC 
equipment at a fast rate.  Not all EVs have this connector.  
CHAdeMO and/or CCS Charging Connector 
Standards  
There are three types of standard charging connectors for Direct 
Current Fast Charging. Vehicles capable of DC fast charging will 
have one of these ports on the vehicle. Other nonstandard 
connectors include Tesla and BYD. Most public DCFC currently 
deployed in California includes standard CHAdeMO and/or CCS 
Type 1 charging connectors.  
IOU(s)  
Investor Owned Utility(ies)  
EVITP Training  
The Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Training Program provides 
electricians with training for the installation of EVSE. EVITP is a 
collaboration of industry stakeholders, including automakers, EVSE 
manufacturers, educational institutions, utility companies, and 
electric industry professionals.  More information is available at 
https://evitp.org.  
NRTL  
Nationally Recognized Testing Lab  
 
Pre-construction: These EV charging equipment safety requirements must be specified in procurement documents:  
  
1. Charging equipment must be certified by a Nationally Recognized Testing Lab (NRTL).  
2. Infrastructure must comply with applicable safety performance requirements associated with the type of TE 
infrastructure being installed.   
• 
For light-duty vehicles, compliance with the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) J-1772 Standard for 
Level 1 or Level 2 charging. Compliance with CHAdeMO and CCS for DC fast charging would be 
appropriate evidence of compliance with this requirement.  
• 
For other types of TE infrastructure, including any non-standardized EVSE, the following basic 
connector safety measures will be required:  
• 
A passing EVSE safety performance evaluation report performed by a Nationally Recognized Testing 
Lab (NRTL);   
• 
When not connected, the vehicle inlet and the EVSE connector must be designed to prevent direct 
contact with any live components;  
• 
The vehicle inlet and EVSE connector shall be free of sharp edges and potentially injurious protrusions;  
• 
The coupler between the vehicle and the EVSE should avoid or mitigate any potentially hazardous 
conditions such as fires, electrical shock to users, or other personal injuries.  
3. Infrastructure and its planned installation must comply with California Electrical Code Article 625.1  
4. Infrastructure and its planned installation must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), 42 
U.S.C. § 12101 et seq., and California Building Code Chapter 11B, 2 if applicable, per the AHJ where the 
EVSE will be installed, unless the appropriate waiver is obtained from local authorities.  
 
2 California Electrical Code Article 625 covers Electric Vehicle Charging System safety and standards as installed in place.  
California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Article 625.  
3 California Building Code Chapter 2 includes definition associated with electric vehicle charging stations.  CBC Chapter 
11B defines requirements for ‘Accessibility to Public Buildings, Public Accommodations, Commercial Buildings, and 
Public Housing.’  
117 of 162

--- page 118 ---
Transportation Electrification Safety Requirements Checklist D.18-01-024/D.18-05-040  
Page 4 of 4 
Appendix B 
  
5. Outdoor-mounted EVSE must be rated to be installed for outdoor use.  
6. For utility infrastructure work on the customer side of the meter, contractors must provide proof of EVITP 
Certification prior to construction.  
7. Contractors must provide the utility proof of a full site assessment, including the appropriate load 
calculations to ensure existing infrastructure can accommodate additional EV load, or that appropriate 
infrastructure upgrades will be completed.   
  
During Construction:  
1. All utility infrastructure work on the customer side of the meter not performed by employees of the IOUs 
shall be performed by fully licensed electricians. For commercial installations, all electrical contractors 
should hold a valid C-10 contractor’s license.  
2. Installations will be designed per Article 625 of the California Electrical Code.  
  
Operational Safety:  
1. Overcurrent protection associated with utility transformers and distribution circuits that feed power to the 
charging stations.  
2. Overcurrent protection in the meter pedestal/circuit breaker panel that feeds each of the charging stations.  
3. Bollard equipment protection installed where appropriate as defined by utility design standards and AHJ 
requirements.  
4. Concrete parking stops to protect equipment where appropriate as defined by utility design standards and 
AHJ requirements.    
 
118 of 162

--- page 119 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 14-1311
File ID: 25-9909
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
May 05, 2025 
SUBJECT:
385 2nd Avenue Lease Agreement Renewal – Reauthorization 
RECOMMENDATION:
Re-approve a lease renewal extending the term to March 31, 2026 with a one-year option for the property located at 385 
2nd Avenue in the Main Street Garage with Elmer Vasquez and Anavela Vasquez with an initial base rent of $1,374.00 per 
month; and authorize the City Manager to execute the lease renewal in substantially the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
On March 17, 2025, the City Council approved a one-year lease extension with a one-year option for the property located 
at 385 2nd Avenue.  However, the agenda report contained an administrative error, in that it incorrectly listed the parties 
to the lease as “Dagoberto Vasquez and Anavela Vasquez.”  The name "Dagoberto Vasquez" was not accurate and should 
have instead stated, "Elmer Vasquez."  The names and signatures on the document, which amends the existing lease, were 
correct.  Staff recommends that the City Council reapprove the execution of the lease amendment, this time referencing 
the correct parties.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this agenda item.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Lease Amendment
STAFF CONTACT
Jennifer Chen, Economic Development Manager
jchen@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7009
119 of 162

--- page 120 ---
SECOND  AMENDMENT TO LEASE
THIS AMENDMENT TO LEASE is made and entered into as of  March 1, 2025  , by and between  CITY OF SAN MATEO  ("Lessor") and
 ELMER VASQUEZ and ANAVELA VASQUEZ  ("Lessee").
WHEREAS, on or about  April 1, 2021  a Lease was entered into by and between Lessor and Lessee relating to certain real property commonly known as 
(street address, city, state, zip):  385 2nd Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94401  (the "Premises"), and
WHEREAS, Lessor and Lessee 
 have
have not previously amended said Lease on October 1, 2022, and 
WHEREAS, the Lessor and Lessee now desire to amend said Lease,
NOW, THEREFORE, for payment of TEN DOLLARS and other good and valuable consideration to Lessor, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, 
the parties mutually agree to make the following additions and modifications to the Lease:
 TERM: The Expiration Date is hereby 
 advanced 
 extended to  March 31, 2026  .
AGREED USE: The Agreed Use is hereby modified to: 
.
BASE RENT ADJUSTMENT: Monthly Base Rent shall be as follows: from April 1, 2025 through March 31, 2025, the Base Rent for the Premises 
shall be One Thousand, Three Hundred and seventy-four and 00/100 ($1,374.00) dollars per month. There is currently an additional 
sixty-two and 96/100 ($62.96) dollar per month common area maintenance charge that is not part of the Base Rent. 
 OTHER:  Option to Extend. Lessee is hereby granted an option to extend the term of this  
Lease for an additional year, from April 1, 2026 through March 31, 2027. The Base Rent  
for this extension period shall be One Thousand, Four Hundred and fifteen and 00/100  
($1,415.00) dollars per month, commencing on April 1, 2026.  
This Amendment shall not be construed against the party preparing it, but shall be construed as if all parties jointly prepared this Amendment and any uncertainty and 
ambiguity shall not be interpreted against any one party. Signatures to this Amendment accomplished by means of electronic signature or similar technology shall be 
legal and binding.
All other terms and conditions of this Lease shall remain unchanged and shall continue in full force and effect except as specifically amended herein. 
EXECUTED as of the day and year first above written.
By Lessor:
 CITY OF SAN MATEO 
By:
Name Printed:  Alex Khojikian 
Title:  City Manager 
Phone: 
Fax: 
Email:  akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org 
Approved as to form:
By:
Name Printed:  Mazarin Vakharia  
Title:  Assistant City Attorney  
Phone: 
Fax: 
Email:  mvakharia@cityofsanmateo.org 
Address: 
Federal ID No.: 
By Lessee:
 ELMER VASQUEZ and ANAVELA VASQUEZ 
By:
Name Printed:  Elmer Vasquez 
Title: 
 
Phone: 
 
Fax: 
Email:  fletchstaqueria@gmail.com 
By:
Name Printed:  Anavela Vasquez 
Title: 
 
Phone: 
 
Fax: 
 
Email: 
Address: 
Federal ID No.: 
AIR CRE * https://www.aircre.com * 213-687-8777 * contracts@aircre.com
120 of 162

--- page 121 ---
NOTICE: No part of these works may be reproduced in any form without permission in writing.
121 of 162

--- page 122 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1111
File ID: 25-9908
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
May 05, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Letter of Opposition to the Current U.S. 101/SR 92 Interchange Direct Connector Project Proposal - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Authorize the Mayor to send a letter on behalf of the City Council to the San Mateo County Transportation Authority 
(SMCTA), the City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County (C/CAG), the California Department of 
Transportation (Caltrans), Assemblymember Diane Papan, and State Senator Josh Becker, expressing the City of San 
Mateo’s opposition to the current U.S. 101/SR 92 Interchange Direct Connector Project proposal. Authorize the Mayor to 
transmit a letter to the Mayor of the City of Foster City requesting consideration for co-signing the opposition letter.
BACKGROUND:
On April 7, 2025, the City Council received an informational update on the US-101/SR-92 Direct Connector Project. 
Following the presentation, a subcommittee was formed consisting of Mayor Rob Newsom, Jr. and Council Member 
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki to draft a letter opposing the current project proposal.
The draft opposition letter (Attachment 1) is now presented to the City Council for approval. If approved, the letter will be 
sent to the San Mateo County Transportation Authority (SMCTA), the City/County Association of Governments of San 
Mateo County (C/CAG), the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans), Assemblymember Diane Papan, and State 
Senator Josh Becker.
The City Council also directed that a request be made to the City Council of Foster City to co-sign the opposition letter. A 
draft request letter (Attachment 2) is also provided for Council consideration and approval.
 BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact associated with the approval and transmission of the attached letters.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This opposition letter is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Letter of Opposition to the Current U.S. 101/SR 92 Interchange Direct Connector Project Proposal
Att 2 – Letter to the Mayor of Foster City
122 of 162

--- page 123 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
123 of 162

--- page 124 ---
May 6, 2025
Dear U.S.,101 / SR 92 Interchange Direct Connector Project Sponsors: 
We are writing to you today on behalf of the residents of the City of San Mateo to express concern with the 
current U.S. 101 / SR 92 Interchange Direct Connector Project, as currently proposed. While we know that 
reducing traffic congestion and improving the US 101 / SR 92 interchange is important to the long-term 
economic success of the City of San Mateo, San Mateo County and the wider Bay Area region, residents 
(250+) came out in force at our April 7 council meeting to request a modified approach. 
As always, we greatly appreciate your efforts to improve transportation infrastructure across San Mateo 
County, and we look forward to partnering with you to balance local community concerns with ongoing 
regional needs. To help us find an effective and community-friendly path forward, we would like to share 
more information about the specific concerns raised by residents:
•
The potential use of eminent domain.
The San Mateo City Council cannot support a project plan that includes eminent domain. Any project 
should be developed within the current footprint of the existing highways and should not lead the 
removal of a local park and up to 31 residential homes.
•
The inclusion of toll lanes in the project with surge pricing.
While we recognize these lanes generate much-needed revenue for transportation authorities, the 
efficacy of these lanes to reduce congestion in high-traffic corridors is unclear. We also are 
concerned these lanes could exacerbate income inequality.
•
Potential impacts to bike and pedestrian lanes.
We are unsure how this project could impact the City’s current plans for East to West protected bike 
lanes & pedestrian ways in the 19th Ave corridor under SR 92.
•
A lack of clear and consistent communication with residents.
When councilmembers initially engaged with residents of the 31 properties that could be impacted 
by eminent domain, not a single resident was aware of this project and how it could materially affect 
them. Communication and community engagement is key, and in this case, a gap in these areas 
explains much of the negative reaction to the project.
•
Cost and environmental impact.
We understand the use of Regional, State and Federal funds is not always flexible and may be 
earmarked toward specific project types. However, it is unclear whether spending $200 million or 
more to expand highways is the best use of taxpayer funds, especially as there may be more 
environmentally friendly ways to address congestion in this corridor. For example, we could explore 
strategic highway widening within the existing highway footprint that benefits those who live in the 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
    
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR
    
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403-1338
                                                     www.cityofsanmateo.org  
(650) 522-7040
124 of 162

--- page 125 ---
cities of San Mateo and Foster City, rather than building toll lanes for East Bay Commuters, or 
implementing robust mass transit across the Bay on the SR 92 corridor.
For these reasons, the San Mateo City Council, in support of our community, is respectfully asking relevant 
transit and government authorities to seriously reconsider the US 101 / SR 92 Interchange Direct Connector 
Project as currently proposed.
We believe there are pathways for existing transportation funds to remain dedicated toward a project to 
ease congestion in this corridor, and we remain open to alternative proposals. As noted, we stand ready to 
work collaboratively toward solutions that benefit our residents.
Sincerely,
 
Robert Newsom Jr., Mayor on behalf of the City of San Mateo City Council 
City of San Mateo
125 of 162

--- page 126 ---
May 6, 2025
Mayor Stacy Jimenez
City Hall
610 Foster City Blvd.
Foster City, CA 94404
Dear Mayor Stacy Jimenez,
On behalf of the San Mateo City Council, I am reaching out to respectfully request that the Foster City City 
Council consider co-signing the enclosed letter regarding the U.S. 101/SR 92 Interchange Direct Connector 
Project.
As outlined in the letter, the project, as currently proposed, raises concerns about its potential impact on 
our residents, shared local infrastructure, and community resources. We believe a joint letter would 
underscore the importance of balancing regional transportation improvements with the needs and well-
being of the San Mateo and Foster City communities.
We greatly value our strong partnership with Foster City and would appreciate your Council’s consideration 
in co-signing this letter to advocate on behalf of our shared constituents.
Thank you for your consideration.
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Robert Newsom Jr., Mayor
City of San Mateo
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
    
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR
    
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403-1338
                                                     www.cityofsanmateo.org  
(650) 522-7040
126 of 162

--- page 127 ---
From:
Mike Swire
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Comment for 5/5 regular meeting, Item 12
Date:
Sunday, May 4, 2025 1:15:59 PM
Dear City Council,
Thank you for your prompt letter in opposition to the 101/92 Direct Connector meeting.  I
appreciate your listening to the community and rapid action in order to prevent waste of
additional taxpayer dollars on this project.  I think for the most part, the letter is great.  I do not
agree with the following statement, however, and ask that it be removed:
"However, it is unclear whether spending $200 million or more to expand highways is the best
use of taxpayer funds, especially as there may be more environmentally friendly ways to
address congestion in this corridor. For example, we could explore strategic highway
widening within the existing highway footprint that benefits those who live in the cities of San
Mateo and Foster City, rather than building toll lanes for East Bay Commuters, or
implementing robust mass transit across the Bay on the SR 92 corridor."
How is widening SR 92 or other highways "environmentally friendly" and how does it
reduce congestion?  As you heard several times from the community last month, widening
highways doesn't solve congestion; instead, it encourages more people to drive.  Please take a
quick look at this video describing induced demand.  Of course, more cars on the road means
more pollution.  Transportation is the #1 source of GHG emissions in SM County.  In
addition, more cars means more air pollution, increasing childhood asthma, cardiovascular
disease, and problem pregnancies.  If we widen 92, this means the additional air pollution will
most impact the communities adjacent to 92.  This includes Sunnybrae, Hayward Park, and
Fiesta Gardens in Mayor Newsom's District, Beresford Manor, Foothill Terrace, and
Homestead in Councilmember Nash's District, Beresford and San Mateo Terrace in
Councilman Lorraine's District, and Harbortown and Lakeshore in Councilwoman Cwirko-
Godycki's District. Why would we increase air pollution, traffic violence, and congestion in
these neighborhoods?
I request that you remove this language from the letter.  Leaving it in there will lead to
confusion as to the Council's intent.  Please remember that while eminent domain was the #1
concern of those who spoke out at the recent Council meeting, a very large number of
residents mentioned induced demand and the fact that widening highways has and will never
reduce congestion.  
Thank you for listening,
Mike Swire
San Mateo, CA
127 of 162

--- page 128 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-4661
File ID: 25-9790
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
May 5, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor Bike Lane Improvements – Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an update and provide feedback on the Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor Bike Lane Improvements 
project.
BACKGROUND:
In July 2023, City Council adopted a Resolution to accept and appropriate $1,661,559 in 100 percent State-funded 
California Transportation Commission Active Transportation Program Cycle 5 funds—requiring no City match—for the 
Delaware Safe Routes to School (SRTS) Corridor Project (Project). The funding supports the environmental, design, right-of-
way, and construction phases of the project, which will enhance safety and connectivity for students traveling to and from 
two public schools accessed via Delaware Street. The Project will also enhance multimodal connectivity to the relocated 
Hillsdale Caltrain Station, improving access from both the northern and southern ends of the corridor.
PROJECT SCOPE AND DESIGN
The Project corridor extends along South Delaware Street, from just south of 19th Avenue to the point where the roadway 
transitions into Pacific Avenue south of 31st Avenue/Franklin Parkway. Planned improvements include upgrading the 
existing bike lanes (Class II) to separated bike lanes (Class IV) between 19th and 28th Avenues and converting the existing 
Class III bike routes (which include signage only) into a bicycle boulevard (which includes pavement markings, traffic 
calming devices, and signage) from 28th Avenue to Pacific Avenue. 
These enhancements are consistent with the vision outlined in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and are designed to address 
the corridor’s history of high traffic stress and bicycle-related collisions. As part of these upgrades, the Project will also 
introduce key intersection safety features designed to protect bicyclists from conflicts with right-turning vehicles including 
dedicated bike signal phases and marked crossings that provide clearer separation between bicycles and vehicle turning 
movements, particularly at busy intersections. 
In addition to the bicycle facility upgrades, the Project includes a variety of pedestrian safety improvements, such as:
•
Installation of new ADA-compliant pedestrian curb ramps at all intersections including in front of the San Mateo 
County Event Center
•
High-visibility crosswalk striping at all intersections
•
Red curb marking approaching crosswalks, in compliance with AB 413
•
Improved pedestrian crossings at two locations:
o
Install rectangular rapid flashing beacons (RRFBs) at the crosswalk on Delaware Street, located between 
Pacific Boulevard and Saratoga Drive.
o
Convert the existing crosswalk at the southern end of the Project area on Delaware Street, just before it 
128 of 162

--- page 129 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
transitions into Pacific Boulevard, into a raised crosswalk to enhance pedestrian visibility and safety.
•
Implementation of an exclusive pedestrian signal phase (pedestrian scramble) at the intersection of 28th Avenue 
and Delaware Street
Distinctive Project features are as follows:
•
Separated Bike Lanes (Class IV): The Project will include separated bike lanes, which allow bicyclists to ride in a 
designated lane separated from vehicular traffic by a buffer with vertical protection (e.g. flexible posts). Separated 
bike lanes provide a low-stress facility, even on roadways with high vehicle speeds and volumes. The more robust 
the buffer’s vertical and horizontal separation, the more comfortable the separated bike lane is for bicyclists. For 
the eastern segment between Saratoga and Bermuda Drives, cyclists will be buffered by parked cars as the bike 
lane will be positioned between the parking lane and the face of curb, farther from the vehicle travel way. 
•
Lane Reconfiguration: The Project will reduce one southbound vehicle travel lane from Bermuda Drive to Saratoga 
Drive on South Delaware Street. This width will be redistributed to accommodate space for new bike lanes as well 
as buffered bike lanes to allow for safer cycling. A traffic operations analysis was performed to verify the design 
satisfies industry standards of acceptable level of service; the design seeks to balance both the needs of the 
community (parking, access to homes), vehicle operations in the corridor, and critical safety enhancements for 
bicyclists and pedestrians. It was determined that despite this reduction in a vehicle travel lane, peak hour travel 
could be accommodated in the South Delaware Street corridor. 
•
Parking Adjustments: Throughout the Project limits there will be a total of five (5) parking spaces on the east side 
of Delaware Street from Bermuda Drive to Saratoga Drive that will be lost. Reductions in parking were necessary 
to provide improved visibility for vehicles exiting the driveways on that stretch of roadway as well as for 
compliance with Assembly Bill (AB) 413, the new statewide “daylighting” law.
•
Waste Collection Modifications: The Project will be modifying how solid waste collection will be performed for the 
multi-family homes on the east side of Delaware Street from Bermuda Drive to Saratoga Drive. Currently, residents 
push their bins into existing parking spaces in the street for collection. The proposed Project will have dedicated 
spaces on the right-of-way to stage bins, so no excess parking is occupied during waste collection days. Staff 
additionally coordinated this change with Recology as a Project stakeholder. 
•
Pavement Improvements: The Project will also resurface Delaware Street from the northern Project limits to 500 
feet south of 25th Avenue and a slurry treatment will be applied from where the resurfacing ends to 28th Avenue. 
It should be noted that the Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor Bike Lane Project is one project that is part of 
the larger immediate bike network, which includes two future project improvements that will be brought to Council at a 
later date. This overall effort seeks to improve connectivity for bicyclists and increase safety for all modes. Other future 
improvements that connect into this Project include:
•
28th Avenue Hillsdale Station Gap Closure Project: This project is aimed to transform the main access to the 
Hillsdale Caltrain Station at 28th Avenue into a transportation hub where multiple modes of transportation are 
accommodated for. This project proposes to include a Class II bike facility on 28th Avenue from Edison to El Camino 
Real, Class IV facility from El Camino Real to W. Kyne and Class II bike facility from W. Kyne to E. Kyne. The project 
also proposes constructing a bus boarding island on 28th Avenue in front of the Hillsdale Caltrain Station access 
ramp to improve connectivity to Caltrain and public transit. The project is currently at 30 percent design and is 
scheduled to reach 100 percent design by Winter 2025. 
More information about this project is available here: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4697/28th-AveHillsdale-
Caltrain-Station-Bicyc
129 of 162

--- page 130 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
The design phase of this Project started (December 2023) and is now substantially complete as of May 2025. During the 
design phase staff executed a robust outreach plan aimed at seeking feedback, educating and informing residents of this 
Project. The outreach plan included mailers, messaging through posterboards in the community, QR code advertisement, a 
community survey, multiple pop-up events at strategic locations throughout the community, easy to access online 
recorded presentations, a focused community meeting and a broader community meeting. More information about the 
Delaware SRTS project, including a summary of past outreach, and a link to the proposed Project design, is available on the 
City’s website: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4794/Delaware-Street-Safe-Routes-to-School-Co.
Recent community meetings were held in April 2025 and included one meeting focused on the northern portion of the 
Project where parking and lane configuration changes are being considered, and a second, broader meeting where general 
Project information and high-level input from the wider community were collected. Information about the Project was also 
provided to the San Mateo United Homeowners Association on April 17th. 
NEXT STEPS
City staff will present details on the proposed Project design, construction timeline (currently scheduled for summer of this 
year in alignment with grant funding requirements), and public engagement efforts. This includes feedback gathered from 
the public with an emphasis on recent community meetings.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for receiving an informational update on the Delaware Safe Routes to School Corridor Bike Lane 
Improvements project. The Project consists of a variety of funding that include Measure A, the Bike San Mateo, Quick Build 
Mobility, and Citywide Pavement Rehabilitation projects, and the Sewer Fund, but most importantly is the ATP Cycle 5 
grant funds. An additional $1.4M in ATP Cycle 5 funds have been incorporated into the proposed 2025-26 project budget 
for construction, which staff will request to allocate from the California Transportation Commission by June 26, 2025. If the 
request is not made by this date, grant funds for the construction phase of the project may be forfeited.  
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Sang Hee Cho, Associate Engineer
scho@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7348
130 of 162

--- page 131 ---
From:
Viki Paganini
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
concerned citizen
Date:
Wednesday, April 30, 2025 5:01:05 PM
Dear Members of the San Mateo City Council,
I am writing to express my concerns about the proposed changes to South Delaware Street as
part of the Safe Routes to School Corridor Bicycle Improvements Project. While I appreciate
the City’s efforts to improve safety, I believe this plan presents serious challenges that have
not been adequately addressed—particularly for those of us who live along Delaware Street
between Bermuda Drive and Saratoga Ave.
Delaware St. is a key arterial road, used by a high volume of vehicles every day. The current
plan is to reduce southbound Delaware St. between Bermuda Drive and Saratoga Drive to one
lane--which risks turning it into a testing ground that may ultimately reduce mobility for the
vast majority of its users. Should a key arterial road be the testing ground for that kind of
transformation? If the result is bottlenecks, the inability of drivers to safely leave and enter
their homes, and the prevention of Delaware St. residents from turning left onto northbound
Delaware when leaving their homes or from turning left into their driveway from northbound
Delaware St.--without meaningful increases in bike usage--then the plan fails on multiple
fronts.
Additionally, residents like myself at Ironwood and residents of Mode Apartments and 2000
Delaware St. Apartments were not included in the planning process. No one in my building
was contacted or consulted about these proposed changes, despite the fact that they directly
affect our ability to enter and exit our property. As it stands, we already face challenges
turning north onto Delaware from our driveway. The proposed plan will block us from doing
so entirely and will also prevent left turns into our driveway from northbound Delaware St.—
effectively cutting off basic access.
To make matters worse, delivery trucks frequently block the curbside southbound Delaware
St. lanes, causing congestion and visibility issues that are not addressed in the redesign. These
issues are common and will only become more problematic with reduced lane availability.
Finally, the traffic study that informed this project is now outdated. Conducted over a year
ago, it does not reflect the current reality: significantly more traffic due to return-to-office
mandates and post-pandemic lifestyle shifts. Any infrastructure overhaul based on outdated
data should be reconsidered in light of current usage patterns.
I support safer streets for all modes of transportation, but these efforts must be grounded in
current realities and include all stakeholders.
I respectfully urge the City to reevaluate the project, particularly between Bermuda and
Saratoga, where it would create substantial access and safety issues for existing residents. A
meeting for all impacted residents between Bermuda and Saratoga Drive should be held
131 of 162

--- page 132 ---
locally. An invitation in English, Spanish, and Mandarin should be mailed to every household
affected so everyone in our community can be included in this meeting.
Thank you for your time and service to our community.
Sincerely,
Viki Paganini
132 of 162

--- page 133 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 25-9910
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
May 05, 2025 
SUBJECT:
City Council Priority List – Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt the City Council Priority List for fiscal year 2025-26.
BACKGROUND:
The City Council goal setting process includes a three-step deliberation process resulting in the Adopted City Council 
Priority List for each fiscal year. The City Council Blue Sky workshop held on February 22, 2025, was the first step in this 
annual goal setting process. At that meeting, City Council received a status update on its 2024/2025 Fiscal Year Priority 
List, which contained 37 priorities within three timeframe categories. The categories represent expected completion 
within one fiscal year, 2-5 fiscal years, or 5 or more years. The List also includes a summary level work plan and estimated 
resource intensity for each priority. At the meeting staff made recommendations to remove, retain, or recategorize 
priorities based on their progress to date and work remaining. Staff was directed to:
•
Remove completed items 
•
Make minor revisions to items that needed adjusting, such as pushing out the date of the EV fleet item from 2030 
to 2035 for a more realistic completion schedule
•
Combine a few related items such as those related to stormwater management and the lagoon; and,
•
Recategorize some items to reflect a more accurate completion schedule, such as completion of the new 
Wastewater Treatment Plant and completion of the Central Park Improvements.
In addition, the Council also heard a report on staff’s existing work plan items that are unrelated to formalized Council 
priorities but are a part of each department’s daily work. Further, each Councilmember presented three (3) proposed new 
priorities to be integrated into the list of Adopted City Council priorities for the new fiscal year and deliberated on whether 
they should be retained. 
The April 21, 2025, meeting marks the second step in the process when the Council will be reviewing and providing final 
direction on the new draft 2025/2026 Fiscal Year Priority List. To assist in this conversation, Attachment 1 provides the full 
list of the original 37 Council priorities with a column on the far right noting where staff made noteworthy revisions based 
on status updates provided throughout the year or by Council at the Blue Sky meeting. Some minor changes have also 
been made since the Blue Sky meeting—for instance, an economic consultant was onboarded to assist with peer reviewing 
of mixed-use projects enabling the removal of former Priority #4. Also, the new proposed priorities that gained 
concurrence by at least three (3) Councilmembers are also integrated into this list and placed within the timeframe 
category where staff thought they were best suited. The new priorities are noted by the word “Added” in the far-right 
column and the new grand total for all priorities is 41. It is important to note that some of the proposed priorities were 
already accounted for in other work plan items and while they did not make it as stand-alone items, they are still 
133 of 162

--- page 134 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
accounted for in the Council priorities. Some examples include:
•
Exploring how small/medium apartment complexes can increase in units is part of Housing Element 
implementation work 
•
Fire House 27 improvements are part of the City’s facilities assessment work
•
Exploring lagoon pump station options is part of the Stormwater Master Plan and is captured in former Priorities 
#5 and 31 (now #42). 
•
With the Business Improvement District Priority, it was more detailed than a similar existing priority, so it 
superseded the older priority.
The resource intensities included in the table remained largely unchanged for both existing and proposed priorities, as the 
projects are generally similar to how they were presented in February. For the existing priorities, the main revisions are 
related to timing/schedule and remaining work for the longer-term priorities which remain fairly resource intensive. As 
would be expected, the shorter-term priorities are less resource intensive either because they are nearly complete or just 
starting and entail primarily the exploratory or piloting phases of our work. Where the resource intensity is higher, it is 
generally indicative of a longer term priority that is nearing completion. Attachment 2 provides a clean copy of the new 
proposed Priorities.
At the meeting, staff will be available to answer any remaining questions and will be seeking final direction on the 
Priorities so we can proceed to the third and final step, which is to finalize and adopt the list as part of the City’s annual 
budgeting process. Tonight, we ask Council:
1.
Do you have any final revisions to the verbiage of any of the priorities?
2.
Do you have any final revisions to the category of any of the priorities?
3.
Are there any priorities you wish to remove? 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this agenda item. A majority of the resource requirements for the adopted Priority List are 
incorporated into the fiscal year 2024-25 budget proposal and the remainder will be brought back as needed, as the 
projects evolve following further analysis and Council direction.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This information update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Draft Priorities Full Markup
Att 2 – Draft Priorities Clean
Att 3 – Post Packet Public Comment Received April 21st
STAFF CONTACT
Christina Horrisberger, Assistant City Manager
chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7210
134 of 162

--- page 135 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
ITEMS TO BE COMPLETED WITHIN THE FISCAL YEAR
1
City Manager's Office
Establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings 
and infrastructure and eliminate methane gas use 
by 2030.
Medium
Continue to conduct community outreach and provide 
education; present findings to Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commission for recommendations to City 
Council; return to City Council with narrowed 
down final policy options and related resource needs 
for, and receive final Council direction on policy 
formation.
2
City Manager's Office
Create a comprehensive, ongoing Citywide 
Community Outreach and Engagement Program.
High
Onboard and train new communications team, and 
retain professional communications consultants to 
reestablish regular eNews, implement biannual 
print newsletters, bolster social media campaigns,  
continue to improve high interest webpages, and 
work with staff Citywide to enhance public 
engagement, establish a townhall program, and 
develop civic engagement forums. Enhance 
customer service and community outreach training 
and education opportunities for staff citywide.
Consultant onboarded; 
cadence established for 
eNews, print news, and 
ongoing social media 
campaigns; Outreach and 
Engagement manual drafted.
3
Public Works
Create a Capital Infrastructure Plan or process for 
reinvesting in infrastructure to allow the City to 
evaluate City facilities and assets when upgrades 
are needed.
High
Budget for and engage a consultant to complete a 
Capital Improvement Program organizational 
assessment to optimize the process for identifying 
all City infrastructure improvements, evaluate the 
process of prioritizing improvements, and assess 
the scheduling and budgeting methodologies. In 
addition, procure a consultant to complete a 
comprehensive facilities assessment to identify 
required improvements.
4
City Manager's 
Office/Community 
Development
Provide greater support to business development 
centers or mixed-use development areas to 
increase economic vitality.
Medium
Hire an economic consultant to provide peer 
reviews of proposed new development with ground 
floor commercial space; develop a list of best 
practices for ground floor commercial marketability 
that can be shared with developers and 
incorporated into future planning documents, 
including the Downtown Area Plan Update; 
continue to monitor commercial vacancies Citywide 
and engage with building owners as needed to 
Moved from 1 year to 2-5 
year implementation 
category to reflect ongoing 
nature of priority.
135 of 162

--- page 136 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
understand vacancy and support getting space re-
occupied.
5
Public Works
Expedite efforts to improve the stormwater 
collection, drainage, and storage system, including 
dredging the Marina lagoon.
High
Continue Stormwater Master Plan Update and 
complete critical components of data collection. 
Complete Marina Lagoon Maintenance Dredging 
design and initiate construction in Summer 2025.
Combined with priority #31, 
revised the verbiage, and 
moved to 5+ years category 
due to ongoing nature of the 
work.
6
City Attorney's Office
Explore adopting a Gardening Waste ordinance.
Low
City Council consideration of an ordinance 
addressing gardening waste.
Removed due to completion.
74
City Manager's Office
Explore a resolution affirming the City's 
commitment to integrate new technologies, such as 
artificial intelligence (AI), without displacing work 
force.
Low
Research County of San Mateo resolution.Explore 
programs in use Countywide and what is already in 
use by staff and develop a plan to formalize 
integration of AI tools to assist staff without their 
displacement or compromising security.
Work has commenced on 
this item.
8
City Clerk's Office & Parks 
and Recreation
Increase organizational capacity to support the 
Toyonaka Sister City Program within the Parks & 
Recreation Department and City Clerk Department.
Medium
Develop a sister city policy or resolution to define 
City staff and non-profit roles and scope (look at 
Redwood City).
Removed - complete
59
Public Works
Conduct an Annual Transportation Review of 
progress on all ongoing plans, including project 
updates and key metrics such as City mode share, 
collision and safety data.
Low
Staff will gather key metrics and present an annual 
transportation review to City Council.
6
Public Works 
Complete Speed Surveys
Medium/High
Complete necessary analyses and adoption of 
ordinances as required by the California Vehicle 
Code to ensure speed limits on the City’s roadways 
are enforceable. Begin by developing an analysis 
and implementation strategy for systematic 
evaluation of our roadways.
Added. 
76
City Manager’s Office
Explore limiting overnight RV Parking in commercial 
corridors
Low
Explore policy and enforcement options and 
present study session to Council.
Added
7
Parks and Recreation; 
City Manager’s Office
Explore how the City of San Mateo could partner 
with the San Mateo Union High School District, San 
Mateo-Foster City School District and other public, 
private and nonprofit organizations to support 
"Empower San Mateo," a community collaborative 
model aiming to help 1000 equity priority San Mateo 
Medium
Map out and identify inter governmental and  
community stakeholder support. Affirm formal 
support from Both High School and Elementary 
School District School Boards. 
Added 
136 of 162

--- page 137 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
students graduate and thrive. Possibilities include: 
evaluating how our city's assets (e.g. parks and 
recreation centers, libraries and more) could be 
further activated to support these and other San 
Mateo students; considering expansion/piloting of 
programming that could help such students find 
internships and local work experience, including 
within the City itself.
8
City Manager’s Office
Explore how the City of San Mateo could partner 
with Sustainable San Mateo and Peninsula Clean 
Energy in "Charge Forward San Mateo," a 
countywide effort to ensure that residents have 
equitable access to electric vehicle (EV) charging 
infrastructure (and reduce the county's greenhouse 
gas emissions from transportation, currently 49% of 
the region's emissions). Possibilities 
include: installing streetlight chargers near 
apartments and multifamily units; collaborating with 
Peninsula Clean Energy to identify apartment and 
multifamily contacts and offer financial and technical 
support for installing EV chargers; incentivize 
private employers to expand employee and 
customer EV charging.
Low
Conduct research and hold a City Council study 
session.
Added
9
City Manager’s Office
Develop and implement an ordinance to prohibit the 
use of gas leaf blowers within the City of San 
Mateo.
Low/Medium
Draft an ordinance based on industry best practices 
for review and adoption by Council and develop an 
implementation and enforcement program.
Added
10
Police
Youth Service Officers at Schools – funding 
program.
Low/Medium
City to work with the school districts over the next 
year to have the school districts help fund an 
additional school resource officer.
Added
11
City Clerk, City Manager’s 
Office, City Attorney
Develop City Council Code of conduct with 
measurable consequences akin to the San Mateo 
County Board of Supervisors language with 
enforcement
Low
Hold workshop and revise/update Council Rules and 
Procedures
Added
137 of 162

--- page 138 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
12
Community Development 
Department
Develop policy on regulating mobile vending/food 
trucks
Low
Work with various departments to explore available 
policy and enforcement options and present to 
Council at a study session.
Added
13
City Manager’s Office, 
City Attorney’s Office
Explore and evaluate allowing a retail cannabis 
storefront in downtown
Low
Explore available policy options along with potential 
revenue generation and present options to Council 
at a study session.
Added
14
Public Works
Deliver the Clean Water Program.
High
Complete all identified construction projects by the 
end of FY 25/26.
Moved up from 2-5 years
15
City Manager's 
Office/Information 
Technology
Explore the implementation of a Customer 
Response Management or 311 system.
High
Onboard consultant support and select a suitable 
CRM that will work with existing back-end systems.
Added to lead department 
since IT is playing a major 
role in shepherding this 
project forward.
16
Parks & Recreation
Implement the Central Park Master Plan.
High
Break ground and complete construction.
Updated schedule. Moved to 
year one. 
17
Library and Public Works
Address structural issues at the Marina Library.
High
Engage in construction work throughout 2025. with 
completion targeted by the end of FY 25/26.
Moved to year one from year 
2 to 5
18
City Manager's 
Office/Community 
Development
Explore piloting a City Grant Fund.
Medium
Identify funding source and amount (50k), staff 
resources, structure, and process.
Moved to year one from year 
2 to 5
ITEMS TO BE COMPLETED WITHIN 2 TO 5 YEARS
1950
City Manager's Office
Consider the adoption of wage theft protections.
High
Partner and work with the County's Office of Labor 
Standards and Enforcement.
11
City Manager's Office
Integrate master plans to increase efficiency and 
community impact.
Low
Continuously cross reference all city planning 
documents to ensure consistency.
Removed
12
Public Works and City 
Manager's Office
Design and implement capital improvements for 
permanent street closure.
Medium
Complete construction of the B Street Pedestrian 
Mall Improvement Project by Fall 2024.
Removed
163
20
Finance
Initiate a Community Budget Process for 
anticipated revenue from Measure CC.
Medium
Continue to monitor Measure CC revenue. Report 
the results through quarterly updates.
14
Public Works
Remove North Shoreview from FEMA Flood 
Assessment.
High
Continue coordination with FEMA on formal 
removal of flood zone designation by Summer 
2024/Fall 2024.
Removed
15
City Manager's Office
Explore the establishment of Property-Based 
Improvement Districts.
Medium
Bring a study session to council for discussion.
Removed and replaced with 
new more detailed priority 
from Council Member 
Lorraine.
138 of 162

--- page 139 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
1716
City Manager's 
Office/Information 
Technology
Explore the implementation of a Customer 
Response Management or 311 system.
High
Research methods by which the City currently 
receives service requests and back-end systems 
where requests are managed. SOnboard consultant 
support and select a suitable CRM that will work 
with existing back-end systems.
Added to lead department 
since IT is playing a major 
role in shepherding this 
project forward.
Moved to year one
1817
21
City Manager's Office and 
Public Works
Enhance city-wide disaster response and emergency 
preparedness.
High
Continue working with Office of Emergency 
Services on updates to the City's Emergency 
Operations Plan including associated staff training 
and exercises, ongoing training for staff roles and 
responsibilities at the Emergency Operations 
Center, and training on the transition to new virtual 
EOC software (Veoci); bolster City staff resources 
with emergency preparedness expertise; update 
departmental emergency plans and COOP/COGs; 
purchase additional emergencyemergency 
rations/provisions and equipment; pursue flood 
control permitting and upgrades; procure grant 
professional writing assistance; evaluate City 
infrastructure for resilience and fitness during 
disaster/extreme events.
Removed completed items 
from work plan
18
22
18
Community Development
Implement the adopted General Plan.
High
Support adoption of a resolution to place a ballot 
measure amending Measure Y on the November 
2024 election; initiateCommence a comprehensive 
Zoning Code update to implement the General 
Plan, including community outreach and 
engagement, starting with an RFP for a consultant 
to support the effort, with a target to initiate the 
update effort in Q3selection.
23
019
Community Development
Implement Housing Element Policies.
High
BeginContinue implementation of all 2023-2031 
Housing Element policies and programs with a 
2024/2025 and 2025/2026 target date.
210
Library and Public Works
Address structural issues at the Marina Library.
High
Complete design process, including addition 
structural analysis, by December 2024 and 
Moved to year one
139 of 162

--- page 140 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
beginEngage in construction work throughoutin 
late Spring 2025. with Ccompletione 
Constructiontargeted by the end of FY 25/26.
221
24
Public Works
Reconstruct all failed streets in San Mateo by 2026.
High
Complete construction of Phase 4 by Spring 2025 
and award construction contract for Phase 5 
Summer 2025. Phase 5 is the final phase of the 
Smooth Streets Program.Complete construction of 
Phase 4 by Fall 2024 and award construction 
contract for Phase 5 Spring 2025. Phase 5 is the 
final phase of the Smooth Streets Program.
Updated schedule and kept 
placement to allow for 
potential delays given project 
history and reliance on 
weather/outside factors
232
25
Public Works
Replace all remaining high voltage circuits to 
improve safety and reliability of the street light 
system.
High
Construction for Phase 4 is planned for Summer 
2025, with the schedule dependent upon PG&E. For 
Phase 5, design efforts are planned, but PG&E has 
requested a 9 month lead time.Complete 
construction of Phase 3. Complete Design for Phase 
4 (Final Phase). Construction for Phase 4 is expected 
to begin in FY 25-26.
Schedule update based on 
PG&E input. Flextime 
included in 2-5 year priority 
category placement.
243
26
City Manager's Office
Implement a robust, year-round Downtown 
Activation Program as part of our core City services.
High
Organize a committee to focus on the vibrancy of 
Downtown.
27
Parks and Recreation; 
City Manager’s Office
Explore how the City of San Mateo could partner 
with the San Mateo Union High School District, San 
Mateo-Foster City School District and other public, 
private and nonprofit organizations to support 
"Empower San Mateo," a community collaborative 
model aiming to help 1000 equity priority San Mateo 
students graduate and thrive. Possibilities include: 
evaluating how our city's assets (e.g. parks and 
recreation centers, libraries and more) could be 
further activated to support these and other San 
Mateo students; considering expansion/piloting of 
programming that could help such students find 
internships and local work experience, including 
within the City itself.
Medium
Map out and identify inter governmental and  
community stakeholder support. Affirm formal 
support from Both High School and Elementary 
School District School Boards. 
Added. 
254
28
Public Works
Prioritize planning, design, construction and 
maintenance of rapid safety improvement projects 
citywide and ensure there is a reliable City fund for 
long term success.
High
Consolidate safety projects identified in existing 
and future plans into a prioritized list. Develop an 
implementation strategy that includes staff 
resources and funding for each phase (planning, 
140 of 162

--- page 141 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
design, construction and maintenance). Continue to 
progress in safety projects in design, such as: 
Delaware Safe Routes to School Protected Bike 
Lane, Hillsdale GAP Closure, 3rd and Norfolk Safety 
Improvement Project.
265
City Manager's 
Office/Community 
Development
Explore piloting a City Grant Fund.
Medium
Identify funding source and amount (50k), staff 
resources, structure, and process.
Moved to year one
2726
29
City Clerk's Office & City 
Attorney's Office
Improve and strengthen democratic systems and 
decrease polarization.
Medium
Conduct a variety of educational outreach to 
current and future voters by, including registration 
events, utilizing mailers, and collaborating with 
service organizations. Staff will continue to conduct 
post-election review and will add additional metrics 
and analysis as an enhancement to this review.
2827
30
City Manager's Office and 
Human Resources
Work with schools, community colleges, 
businesses, and other organizations to expand 
youth and senior workforce development & civic 
leadership opportunities.
Medium
Attract and retain youth/young adult interns by 
partnering with organizations, such as 
Empowerment Through Action and local 
businesses, and centralizing internships. Improve 
our volunteer program to attract and retain 
volunteers, especially seniors.
28
Public Works
Deliver the Clean Water Program.
High
Complete all identified construction projects by the 
end of FY 25/26.
Moved up to 1 year category
29
City Manager's 
Office/Community 
Development
Provide greater support to business development 
centers or mixed-use development areas to 
increase economic vitality.
Medium
Regularly engage with hHired an economic 
consultant to provide peer reviews of proposed 
new development with ground floor commercial 
space; develop a list of best practices for ground 
floor commercial marketability that can be shared 
with developers and incorporated into future 
planning documents, including the Downtown Area 
Plan Update; continue to monitor commercial 
vacancies Citywide and engage with building 
owners as needed to understand vacancy and 
support getting space re-occupied.
Removed due to completion
3031
City Manager’s Office
Commission a citywide feasibility study for groups of 
San Mateo businesses interested in forming 
business improvement districts (BIDs), including 
Medium/High
Conduct stakeholder mapping and identification in 
multiple targeted areas, create and conduct 
surveys, hold community meetings, visit businesses, 
Added
141 of 162

--- page 142 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
existing smaller districts outside of downtown, such 
as 25th Avenue and Crystal Springs Shopping 
Center, and newer groupings such as sections of El 
Camino Real or downtown  businesses that may 
wish to pursue a property-based BID or other 
complementary structure to the existing Downtown 
San Mateo Association. 
etc. to gauge interest and needs and formulate 
what to present to Council at one or more study 
sessions.
321
Parks and Recreation
Establish Senior Hubs at MLK and Beresford Senior 
Centers
•
Senior Hubs: Expand our current senior 
programming offerings to better meet the 
needs of our senior community members by 
increasing the variety and frequency of 
events tailored specifically to seniors, such 
as adding options for engagement, 
socialization, and overall well-being. Also, 
investigate partnering with other 
organizations to provide coffee/tea or light 
refreshments that will enhance the overall 
experience but also encourage more 
participation by creating a welcoming and 
comfortable atmosphere.
Medium
Strategically identify which facilities(y) could best 
support piloting this type of program based on 
availability of space and staffing, and suitability of 
structure to remain open and accessible in the 
foreseeable future. Update programing, staffing, 
and outreach as needed to support the expansion 
of service.   
Added
332
City Manager’s Office, 
Public Works, Community 
Development
Develop a Climate Adaptation Plan to establish a 
comprehensive strategy for resiliency and 
adaptation against sea level rise and flooding to 
ensure we are well poised for funding opportunities 
and include Foster City and Burlingame in planning 
efforts.
High
Use grant funding to commence this planned work, 
including consultant selection, ensuring all 
pertinent departments and our neighboring cities 
are included and any attention needed is given 
toward the future of the levy.
Added
34
Public Works
Minimize impacts to residents from train horn 
noise at City at-grade crossings.
High
Complete construction of all rail safety measures 
required for Train Horn Noise Quiet Zone (Quiet 
Zone) qualification as quickly as possible. Staff to 
work with FRA and required stakeholders (e.g. 
CPUC, Caltrain, and Union Pacific) to complete 
Moved to year 2 to 5 from 5 
years or more
142 of 162

--- page 143 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
administrative steps to establish Quiet Zone by end 
of calendar year 2025.
29
Library
Implement Library Space Master Plan.
High
Complete rest of space enhance projects: Cafe, 
Lobby, Teen Area, Business Library, Jobseekers 
Space, Biotech Learning Center, Periodical Storage 
Space
Removed –to be integrated 
into Capital Improvement 
Program and brought back 
this Spring
330
Parks & Recreation
Implement the Central Park Master Plan.
High
Staff will complete phase 1 of the Central Park 
Playground Improvements, which consist of 
directing the project manager to solicit bids and 
manage the construction process.Break ground and 
complete construction.
Updated schedule. Moved to 
year one.
ITEMS TO BE COMPLETED IN 5 YEARS OR MORE
3431
35
Public Works
Expedite efforts to improve the stormwater 
collection, drainage, and storage system, including 
dredging the Marina lagoon.
High
Adopt a prioritized, long-term 5-Year Capital 
Improvement Plan based on Stormwater Master 
Plan Update. Initiate and complete environmental 
approval process for dredging of the Marina 
Lagoon. Begin implementation of other highly 
prioritized stormwater capital improvement 
projects as funding and resources allow.
new combined priority.
3532
36
Public Works
Implement a Green Fleet by 20350.
High
Complete design and initiate construction of City 
Hall/City Plaza EV charging infrastructure 
improvements by end of calendar year 2025. Seek 
additional grant funding and plan for Corp Yard/PD 
EV charging infrastructure improvements.
Updated project horizon
3633
37
Public Works
Expedite efforts to provide high quality effluent 
from the wastewater treatment plant upgrades to 
support the future production of potable water.
High
Continue participating in the Peninsula Pure Water 
(formerly San Francisco Peninsula Regional 
Purification) project to pursue a wastewater 
purification facility at the Silicon Valley Clean Water 
facility in Redwood Shores.
3734
Public Works
Minimize impacts to residents from train horn 
noise at City at-grade crossings.
High
Complete construction of all rail safety measures 
required for Train Horn Noise Quiet Zone (Quiet 
Zone) qualification by end of calendar year 2024as 
quickly as possible. Staff to work with FRA and 
required stakeholders (e.g. CPUC, Caltrain, and 
Union Pacific) to complete administrative steps to 
establish Quiet Zone by end of calendar year 2025.
Moved to year 2 to 5
143 of 162

--- page 144 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
38
35
38
Public Works
Study resource feasibility for the downtown grade 
separations and long-term train corridor 
improvements.
High
Identify resource needs for staffing, grant writer, 
and design consultant to implement the feasibility 
study.
3936
Public Works
Improve traffic flow on 19th Ave and Fashion Island 
Boulevard from Grant to Mariners Island Boulevard.
High
Continue the design for 463338 Norfolk/Fashion 
Island intersection improvements. Continue design 
for the 19th Avenue Smart Corridor Project. Finalize 
negotiations to combine both projects on 19th 
Avenue and Fashion Island to help expedite 
delivery and coordination of both projects.The City 
is working with the San Mateo County 
Transportation Agency (TA) and leading the 
implementation of this project, with funding a 
constraint. Staff will continue working with the TA 
to evaluate options to reprogram funding from the 
construction phase to the design phase, with the 
design efforts start date currently unconfirmed.
Schedule update; funding 
constraint inserted into work 
plan
4037
Public Works
Complete all High and Medium-High priority 
projects in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the 
Pedestrian Master Plan with the goal of prioritizing 
quick-build projects where feasible.
High
Program all existing 2020 BMP projects into the 
Bike San Mateo Program in order toto expedite the 
design and delivery of all High and Med-High 
bicycle projects. This will include quick-build bicycle 
projects. Identify all incomplete PMP projects and 
develop a workplan for expedited completion. 
Complete design for the Delaware SRTS Protected 
Bike Lane Project, Hillsdale Gap Closure project and 
the 3rd and Norfolk Island Intersection Safety 
Improvement project. Continue to the design for 
the 19th Avenue and Fashion Island Class IV bike 
lane projects Some major projects 
complete/substantially underway.
41
Public Works 
Complete Speed Surveys
Medium/High
Complete necessary analyses and adoption of 
ordinances as required by the California Vehicle 
Code to ensure speed limits on the City’s roadways 
are enforceable. Begin by developing an analysis 
and implementation strategy for systematic 
evaluation of our roadways.
Added
144 of 162

--- page 145 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
421
Public Works
Expedite efforts to improve and build climate 
resiliency into the City’s stormwater collection, 
conveyance, flood control, and levee systems, 
including dredging the Marina lagoon.
High
Near Term (1-3 years): 
•
Adopt an updated Storm Drain Master Plan 
including a prioritized, long-term Capital 
Improvement Program.
•
Complete Marina Lagoon Spot Dredging 
design and construction.
•
Explore options for providing additional 
pumping capacity at the Marina Lagoon 
Pump Station and increasing overall 
resiliency for climate change and more 
intense storm events.  
•
Develop a Sea Level Rise Adaptation Plan to 
establish a comprehensive strategy for 
resiliency and adaptation against sea level 
rise and flooding, including a prioritized list 
of projects, and in accordance with BCDC 
Regional Shoreline Adaptation Plan 
requirements. 
•
Pursue funding for implementation of a 
comprehensive flood management study 
with the Army Corps of Engineers per the 
City’s federal Water Resources 
Development Act authorization.  
•
Initiate design on high priority stormwater 
capital improvement projects identified in 
the Storm Drain Master Plan
Medium Term (4-5 years):
•
Complete design, environmental review, and 
permitting process for large-scale 
maintenance dredging of the Marina Lagoon. 
Combined Existing priorities 
#5 & 31 with Council 
Member Cwirko-Godycki’s 
proposed priority #1. 
145 of 162

--- page 146 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
•
Begin implementation of high priority 
stormwater capital improvement projects 
identified in the Storm Drain Master Plan.
•
Collaborating with relevant stakeholders, 
pursue prioritized funding for shoreline 
adaptation projects as identified in the Sea 
Level Rise Adaptation Plan 
Long Term (6+ years):
•
Continue implementing priority projects 
from the Storm Drain Master Plan 
              Initiate design, environmental review,        
              and permitting on priority shoreline  
              adaptation projects
146 of 162

--- page 147 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
ITEMS TO BE COMPLETED WITHIN THE FISCAL YEAR
1
City Manager's Office
Establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings 
and infrastructure and eliminate methane gas use by 
2030.
Medium
Continue to conduct community outreach and provide 
education; present findings to Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commission for recommendations to City 
Council; return to City Council final policy options and 
related resource needs for, Council direction.
2
City Manager's Office
Create a comprehensive, ongoing Citywide 
Community Outreach and Engagement Program.
High
Onboard and train new communications team, 
continue to improve high interest webpages and 
work with staff Citywide to enhance public 
engagement, establish a townhall program, and 
develop civic engagement forums. Enhance 
customer service and community outreach training 
and education opportunities for staff citywide.
Consultant onboarded; 
cadence established for 
eNews, print news, and 
ongoing social media 
campaigns; Outreach and 
Engagement manual drafted.
3
Public Works
Create a Capital Infrastructure Plan or process for 
reinvesting in infrastructure to allow the City to 
evaluate City facilities and assets when upgrades are 
needed.
High
Budget for and engage a consultant to complete a 
Capital Improvement Program organizational 
assessment to optimize the process for identifying 
all City infrastructure improvements, evaluate the 
process of prioritizing improvements, and assess the 
scheduling and budgeting methodologies. In 
addition, procure a consultant to complete a 
comprehensive facilities assessment to identify 
required improvements.
4
City Manager's Office
Explore a resolution affirming the City's commitment 
to integrate new technologies, such as artificial 
intelligence (AI), without displacing work force.
Low
Explore programs in use Countywide and what is 
already in use by staff and develop a plan to 
formalize integration of AI tools to assist staff 
without their displacement or compromising 
security.
Work has commenced on this 
item.
5
Public Works
Conduct an Annual Transportation Review of 
progress on all ongoing plans, including project 
updates and key metrics such as City mode share, 
collision and safety data.
Low
Staff will gather key metrics and present an annual 
transportation review to City Council.
6
Public Works 
Complete Speed Surveys
Medium/High
Complete necessary analyses and adoption of 
ordinances as required by the California Vehicle 
Code to ensure speed limits on the City’s roadways 
are enforceable. Begin by developing an analysis 
Added. 
147 of 162

--- page 148 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
and implementation strategy for systematic 
evaluation of our roadways.
7
City Manager’s Office
Explore limiting overnight RV Parking in commercial 
corridors
Low
Explore policy and enforcement options and present 
study session to Council.
Added
8
City Manager’s Office
Explore how the City of San Mateo could partner with 
Sustainable San Mateo and Peninsula Clean Energy 
in "Charge Forward San Mateo," a countywide effort 
to ensure that residents have equitable access to 
electric vehicle (EV) charging infrastructure (and 
reduce the county's greenhouse gas emissions from 
transportation, currently 49% of the region's 
emissions). Possibilities include: installing streetlight 
chargers near apartments and multifamily units; 
collaborating with Peninsula Clean Energy to identify 
apartment and multifamily contacts and offer financial 
and technical support for installing EV chargers; 
incentivize private employers to expand employee 
and customer EV charging.
Low
Conduct research and hold a City Council study 
session.
Added
9
City Manager’s Office
Develop and implement an ordinance to prohibit the 
use of gas leaf blowers within the City of San Mateo.
Low/Medium
Draft an ordinance based on industry best practices 
for review and adoption by Council and develop an 
implementation and enforcement program.
Added
10
Police
Youth Service Officers at Schools – funding program.
Low/Medium
City to work with the school districts over the next 
year to have the school districts help fund an 
additional school resource officer.
Added
11
City Clerk, City Manager’s 
Office, City Attorney
Develop City Council Code of conduct with 
measurable consequences akin to the San Mateo 
County Board of Supervisors language with 
enforcement
Low
Hold workshop and revise/update Council Rules and 
Procedures
Added
12
Community Development 
Department
Develop policy on regulating mobile vending/food 
trucks
Low
Work with various departments to explore available 
policy and enforcement options and present to 
Council at a study session.
Added
13
City Manager’s Office, 
City Attorney’s Office
Explore and evaluate allowing a retail cannabis 
storefront in downtown
Low
Explore available policy options along with potential 
revenue generation and present options to Council at 
a study session.
Added
148 of 162

--- page 149 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
14
Public Works
Deliver the Clean Water Program.
High
Complete all identified construction projects by the 
end of FY 25/26.
Moved up from 2-5 years
15
City Manager's 
Office/Information 
Technology
Explore the implementation of a Customer Response 
Management or 311 system.
High
Onboard consultant support and select a suitable 
CRM that will work with existing back-end systems.
Added to lead department 
since IT is playing a major 
role in shepherding this 
project forward.
16
Parks & Recreation
Implement the Central Park Master Plan.
High
Break ground and complete construction.
Updated schedule. Moved to 
year one. 
17
Library and Public Works
Address structural issues at the Marina Library.
High
Engage in construction work throughout 2025. with 
completion targeted by the end of FY 25/26.
Moved to year one from year 
2 to 5
18
City Manager's 
Office/Community 
Development
Explore piloting a City Grant Fund.
Medium
Identify funding source and amount (50k), staff 
resources, structure, and process.
Moved to year one from year 
2 to 5
ITEMS TO BE COMPLETED WITHIN 2 TO 5 YEARS
19
City Manager's Office
Consider the adoption of wage theft protections.
High
Partner and work with the County's Office of Labor 
Standards and Enforcement.
20
Finance
Initiate a Community Budget Process for anticipated 
revenue from Measure CC.
Medium
Continue to monitor Measure CC revenue. Report 
the results through quarterly updates.
21
City Manager's Office and 
Public Works
Enhance city-wide disaster response and emergency 
preparedness.
High
Continue working with Office of Emergency Services 
on updates to the City's Emergency Operations Plan 
including associated staff training and exercises, 
ongoing training for staff roles and responsibilities 
at the Emergency Operations Center, and training 
on the transition to new virtual EOC software 
(Veoci); update departmental emergency plans and 
COOP/COGs; purchase emergency equipment; 
pursue flood control permitting and upgrades; 
evaluate City infrastructure for resilience and fitness 
during disaster/extreme events.
Removed completed items 
from work plan
22
Community Development
Implement the adopted General Plan.
High
Commence comprehensive Zoning Code update to 
implement the General Plan, including community 
outreach and engagement, starting with consultant 
selection.
149 of 162

--- page 150 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
23
Community Development
Implement Housing Element Policies.
High
Continue implementation of all 2023-2031 Housing 
Element policies and programs with a 2024/2025 
and 2025/2026 target date.
24
Public Works
Reconstruct all failed streets in San Mateo by 2026.
High
Complete construction of Phase 4 by Spring 2025 
and award construction contract for Phase 5 
Summer 2025. Phase 5 is the final phase of the 
Smooth Streets Program.
Updated schedule and kept 
placement to allow for 
potential delays given project 
history and reliance on 
weather/outside factors
25
Public Works
Replace all remaining high voltage circuits to 
improve safety and reliability of the street light 
system.
High
Construction for Phase 4 is planned for Summer 
2025, with the schedule dependent upon PG&E. For 
Phase 5, design efforts are planned, but PG&E has 
requested a 9 month lead time.
Schedule update based on 
PG&E input. Flextime 
included in 2-5 year priority 
category placement.
26
City Manager's Office
Implement a robust, year-round Downtown 
Activation Program as part of our core City services.
High
Organize a committee to focus on the vibrancy of 
Downtown.
27
Parks and Recreation; City 
Manager’s Office
Explore how the City of San Mateo could partner with 
the San Mateo Union High School District, San 
Mateo-Foster City School District and other public, 
private and nonprofit organizations to support 
"Empower San Mateo," a community collaborative 
model aiming to help 1000 equity priority San Mateo 
students graduate and thrive. Possibilities include: 
evaluating how our city's assets (e.g. parks and 
recreation centers, libraries and more) could be 
further activated to support these and other San 
Mateo students; considering expansion/piloting of 
programming that could help such students find 
internships and local work experience, including 
within the City itself.
Medium
Map out and identify inter governmental and  
community stakeholder support. Affirm formal 
support from Both High School and Elementary 
School District School Boards. 
Added. 
28
Public Works
Prioritize planning, design, construction and 
maintenance of rapid safety improvement projects 
citywide and ensure there is a reliable City fund for 
long term success.
High
Consolidate safety projects identified in existing and 
future plans into a prioritized list. Develop an 
implementation strategy that includes staff 
resources and funding for each phase (planning, 
design, construction and maintenance). Continue to 
progress in safety projects in design, such as: 
Delaware Safe Routes to School Protected Bike Lane, 
Hillsdale GAP Closure, 3rd and Norfolk Safety 
Improvement Project.
150 of 162

--- page 151 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
29
City Clerk's Office & City 
Attorney's Office
Improve and strengthen democratic systems and 
decrease polarization.
Medium
Conduct a variety of educational outreach to current 
and future voters by, including registration events, 
utilizing mailers, and collaborating with service 
organizations. Staff will continue to conduct post-
election review and will add additional metrics and 
analysis as an enhancement to this review.
30
City Manager's Office and 
Human Resources
Work with schools, community colleges, businesses, 
and other organizations to expand youth and senior 
workforce development & civic leadership 
opportunities.
Medium
Attract and retain youth/young adult interns by 
partnering with organizations, such as 
Empowerment Through Action and local businesses, 
and centralizing internships. Improve our volunteer 
program to attract and retain volunteers, especially 
seniors.
31
City Manager’s Office
Commission a citywide feasibility study for groups of 
San Mateo businesses interested in forming 
business improvement districts (BIDs), including 
existing smaller districts outside of downtown, such 
as 25th Avenue and Crystal Springs Shopping 
Center, and newer groupings such as sections of El 
Camino Real or downtown  businesses that may 
wish to pursue a property-based BID or other 
complementary structure to the existing Downtown 
San Mateo Association. 
Medium/High
Conduct stakeholder mapping and identification in 
multiple targeted areas, create and conduct surveys, 
hold community meetings, visit businesses, etc. to 
gauge interest and needs and formulate what to 
present to Council at one or more study sessions.
Added
32
Parks and Recreation
Establish Senior Hubs at MLK and Beresford Senior 
Centers
•
Senior Hubs: Expand our current senior 
programming offerings to better meet the 
needs of our senior community members by 
increasing the variety and frequency of 
events tailored specifically to seniors, such as 
adding options for engagement, socialization, 
and overall well-being. Also, investigate 
partnering with other organizations to provide 
coffee/tea or light refreshments that will 
enhance the overall experience but also 
Medium
Strategically identify which facilities(y) could best 
support piloting this type of program based on 
availability of space and staffing, and suitability of 
structure to remain open and accessible in the 
foreseeable future. Update programing, staffing, 
and outreach as needed to support the expansion of 
service.   
Added
151 of 162

--- page 152 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
encourage more participation by creating a 
welcoming and comfortable atmosphere.
33
City Manager’s Office, 
Public Works, Community 
Development
Develop a Climate Adaptation Plan to establish a 
comprehensive strategy for resiliency and adaptation 
against sea level rise and flooding to ensure we are 
well poised for funding opportunities and include 
Foster City and Burlingame in planning efforts.
High
Use grant funding to commence this planned work, 
including consultant selection, ensuring all pertinent 
departments and our neighboring cities are included 
and any attention needed is given toward the future 
of the levy.
Added
34
Public Works
Minimize impacts to residents from train horn noise 
at City at-grade crossings.
High
Complete construction of all rail safety measures 
required for Train Horn Noise Quiet Zone (Quiet 
Zone) qualification as quickly as possible. Staff to 
work with FRA and required stakeholders (e.g. 
CPUC, Caltrain, and Union Pacific) to complete 
administrative steps to establish Quiet Zone by end 
of calendar year 2025.
Moved to year 2 to 5 from 5 
years or more
ITEMS TO BE COMPLETED IN 5 YEARS OR MORE
35
Public Works
Expedite efforts to improve the stormwater 
collection, drainage, and storage system, including 
dredging the Marina lagoon.
High
Adopt a prioritized, long-term 5-Year Capital 
Improvement Plan based on Stormwater Master 
Plan Update. Initiate and complete environmental 
approval process for dredging of the Marina Lagoon. 
Begin implementation of other highly prioritized 
stormwater capital improvement projects as funding 
and resources allow.
new combined priority.
36
Public Works
Implement a Green Fleet by 2035.
High
Complete design and initiate construction of City 
Hall/City Plaza EV charging infrastructure 
improvements by end of calendar year 2025. Seek 
additional grant funding and plan for Corp Yard/PD 
EV charging infrastructure improvements.
Updated project horizon
37
Public Works
Expedite efforts to provide high quality effluent 
from the wastewater treatment plant upgrades to 
support the future production of potable water.
High
Continue participating in the Peninsula Pure Water 
(formerly San Francisco Peninsula Regional 
Purification) project to pursue a wastewater 
purification facility at the Silicon Valley Clean Water 
facility in Redwood Shores.
152 of 162

--- page 153 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
38
Public Works
Study resource feasibility for the downtown grade 
separations and long-term train corridor 
improvements.
High
Identify resource needs for staffing, grant writer, 
and design consultant to implement the feasibility 
study.
39
Public Works
Improve traffic flow on 19th Ave and Fashion Island 
Boulevard from Grant to Mariners Island Boulevard.
High
The City is working with the San Mateo County 
Transportation Agency (TA) and leading the 
implementation of this project, with funding a 
constraint. Staff will continue working with the TA 
to evaluate options to reprogram funding from the 
construction phase to the design phase, with the 
design efforts start date currently unconfirmed.
Schedule update; funding 
constraint inserted into work 
plan
40
Public Works
Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects 
in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian 
Master Plan with the goal of prioritizing quick-build 
projects where feasible.
High
Program all existing 2020 BMP projects into the Bike 
San Mateo Program to expedite the design and 
delivery of all High and Med-High bicycle projects. 
This will include quick-build bicycle projects. Identify 
all incomplete PMP projects and develop a workplan 
for expedited completion. Some major projects 
complete/substantially underway.
41
Public Works
Expedite efforts to improve and build climate 
resiliency into the City’s stormwater collection, 
conveyance, flood control, and levee systems, 
including dredging the Marina lagoon.
High
Near Term (1-3 years): 
•
Adopt an updated Storm Drain Master Plan 
including a prioritized, long-term Capital 
Improvement Program.
•
Complete Marina Lagoon Spot Dredging 
design and construction.
•
Explore options for providing additional 
pumping capacity at the Marina Lagoon 
Pump Station and increasing overall 
resiliency for climate change and more 
intense storm events.  
•
Develop a Sea Level Rise Adaptation Plan to 
establish a comprehensive strategy for 
resiliency and adaptation against sea level 
rise and flooding, including a prioritized list 
of projects, and in accordance with BCDC 
Combined Existing priorities 
#5 & 31 with Council 
Member Cwirko-Godycki’s 
proposed priority #1. 
153 of 162

--- page 154 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
Regional Shoreline Adaptation Plan 
requirements. 
•
Pursue funding for implementation of a 
comprehensive flood management study 
with the Army Corps of Engineers per the 
City’s federal Water Resources Development 
Act authorization.  
•
Initiate design on high priority stormwater 
capital improvement projects identified in 
the Storm Drain Master Plan
Medium Term (4-5 years):
•
Complete design, environmental review, and 
permitting process for large-scale maintenance 
dredging of the Marina Lagoon. 
•
Begin implementation of high priority 
stormwater capital improvement projects 
identified in the Storm Drain Master Plan.
•
Collaborating with relevant stakeholders, 
pursue prioritized funding for shoreline 
adaptation projects as identified in the Sea 
Level Rise Adaptation Plan 
Long Term (6+ years):
•
Continue implementing priority projects 
from the Storm Drain Master Plan 
              Initiate design, environmental review,        
              and permitting on priority shoreline  
              adaptation projects
154 of 162

--- page 155 ---
City of San Mateo
City Council Meeting
POST PACKET
PUBLIC COMMENT
As of April 21, 2025, at 4:00 PM
155 of 162

--- page 156 ---
Oh Outlook

4/21/2025 agenda item #11 public comment: priority list adoption

Date Mon 4/21/2025 3:45 PM
To Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council,

| attended the Blue Sky Goal Setting Workshop on February 22. It
was an interesting, well-run meeting. Among the many good ideas
presented, the leaf blower ordinance in particular will not only

help our community, but also help us support our county and state
goals with respect to reducing carbon and smog-forming emissions.
Thanks to city staff and council members for their hard work, and
for showing up on a beautiful sunny Saturday.

Speaking now as a member of Quiet Clean San Mateo and the national
Quiet Clean Alliance —

Thank you Council Member Lisa Diaz Nash for sponsoring an ordinance
banning the use of highly polluting gas-powered leaf blowers. The
entire community, especially the equipment operators, will experience
better health and quality of life once the transition is made to
battery-powered tools. Good health is priceless! Because this is

a health initiative, we'd like the ordinance to go into effect no

later than January 1, 2026. This means announcing the ordinance
in June, to allow businesses a 6-month grace period to make the
transition. This is more than fair considering that some California
cities offer no grace period at all. We already have draft ordinance
language prepared to assist the city manager's office, and we are
ready to help communicate with landscaping businesses and their
customers regarding this improvement to their services.

We ask the council members and the city manager's office to let us
know precisely what they need to get this done for a January 2026
start date, including what is meant by the phrase "based on industry
best practices". Community members — that is, residents of the City
of San Mateo — are the ones who must be able to provide input to the
process.

We are here to help. Thank you.

Sincerely,

156 of 162


--- page 157 ---
Carol Wilhelmy, District 5 resident
quietcleansanmateo.org
quietcleanalliance.org

157 of 162


--- page 158 ---
lo M Outlook

City Priorities - Electric Leaf Blower Transition

From Dustin Chase

Date Mon 4/21/2025 3:41 PM

To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

I’d like to comment on the gas leaf blower regulation initiative. I have played a major
role in it, and I’d like to talk about why.

I am a part of a vulnerable, marginalized minority that tends to be severely harmed by
gas leaf blower pollution.

I am also part of a privileged, powerful minority. I have some resources and power that
many others do not have.

I am in a unique situation - I am both in a vulnerable, marginalized group and ina
powerful, privileged one. One of our responsibilities as privileged people is to look out
for those who are more vulnerable. I feel it is my role to use my experiences to help me
understand other vulnerable people, and to use my privilege to help shield them.

With this idea, our community asks “what can we do for our most vulnerable
neighbors?” I thank Council Member Diaz Nash for bringing this important idea
forward. We urgently need to transition to electric leaf blowers.

We know leaf blowers are not necessary for plant care. Blowing leaves is a luxury; it is
for the convenience of the property owner, who, rightly or wrongly, feels using hand
tools would take too long.

Very well. This ordinance will allow leaf blower use in San Mateo, but it will require
employers to switch from gas leaf blowers to electric leaf blowers.

This change is primarily for landscaping workers. Right now, they have to accept serious
short and long term health risks, not to mention ugly confrontation and nasty conflict
with other community members, just to make a living. That is not fair.

158 of 162


--- page 159 ---
Using gas leaf blowers is not fair to the rest of the community, either. The community
cannot adapt to them because they are impossible to use safely. But it’s possible to adapt
to the electric models. For starters, they have zero local emissions, so all the large
volumes of toxic substances and carcinogens that gas leaf blowers spew into our
neighborhoods, lingering near the ground long after the crews are gone, will be
eliminated.

The electric leaf blowers are also significantly quieter than gas models, and the noise
does not carry nearly as far or penetrate physical barriers as easily as gas leaf blower
noise does. In my experience, many electric leaf blowers are very quiet, and I can be
nearby without any trouble. Some electric leaf blower models are troublesome, but I
find my ear defense works well in those cases. We may not like electric leaf blowers, but
we can live with them.

Landscaping businesses tend to resist electric leaf blowers, but they like them once they
get used to them. These are safer, quieter tools with much lower operating costs. Workers
will have to adapt, but with the harms of gas leaf blowers being so great, that adaptation
is little to ask.

I want to acknowledge that many of us want to ban all leaf blowers and for good reasons,
including health and environmental protection. I’m sorry we cannot provide the
complete relief you have been searching for. We are doing the best we can.

We are offering harm reduction. In return, we are asking for the community's help.
Please help us spread the word about this upcoming rule change, and the reasons for it.
Please change your lawn service to electric leaf blowing as soon as possible, and ask
your neighbors to do the same.

Please be patient as we transition. I understand many of you are very frustrated, but
please don’t plan to rely completely on code enforcement. If you see a violation, try to
work things out. A simple conversation with your neighbor may be all you need to find
relief, and that diffuses any unnecessary conflict. If a landscaping worker is struggling
with this change, please think about what you could do to help them. Some simple
understanding might go a long way.

159 of 162


--- page 160 ---
We can’t live with gas blowers, but we can live together. Let us compromise and carry
on as a more healed community where everyone has a better chance to meet their
potential.

Thank you.

Dustin Chase
San Francisco Resident, former San Mateo resident

160 of 162


--- page 161 ---
From:
Clerk
To:
Andrea Chow
Subject:
FW: Advocating for action on a gas leaf blower ban
Date:
Monday, May 5, 2025 10:34:22 PM
 
 
From: Mark Miller <
> 
Sent: Monday, May 5, 2025 10:31 PM
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Fwd: Advocating for action on a gas leaf blower ban
 
Dear Clerk of City of San Mateo,
 
I sent this email to the city council last month and wanted to be sure you were aware of
my email.
 
-- Mark Miller
 
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Mark Miller <
>
Date: Mon, Apr 7, 2025 at 8:30 PM
Subject: Advocating for action on a gas leaf blower ban
To: <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>, Lisa Diaz Nash
<ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>, <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
 
Dear Mayor Newsom and the San Mateo City Council,
 
Good day. I am a resident of District 5.
 
I am asking the City Council to reconsider a gas leaf blower ban for the City of San
Mateo, now that the City of Burlingame has instituted its own ban effective July 1, 2024.
As we are all aware California law AB 1346 has gone into effect, however online retailers
continue to sell gas powered leaf blowers and restock their shelves given little oversight
related to enforcement, which means that this law will take several long years to have
any measurable impact on the use of these poorly regulated machines that generate a
deafening whine of noise that feels inescapable and pollute the atmosphere with high
levels of carbon dioxide.
One of the main issues that have prevented municipalities such as San Mateo to
161 of 162

--- page 162 ---
institute a ban on gas powered leaf blowers is that landscapers are resistant to change
and will have a hard time making the switch to battery operated machines. In order to
make the switch, landscapers will need to be pushed into making the change as this
group is resistant to change until told to do so apparently.
I am asking the City Council to please have the courage and leadership needed to
institute a ban on gas powered leaf blowers to protect the environment for ourselves and
more importantly for future generations. Please consider what the City of Burlingame
has instituted and the strong message that this says to their residents and businesses,
that we care about both your health and the health of our environment with a strong ban
on gas powered leaf blowers that goes into effect in a short time table as well as
restricting the use of leaf blowers for use by certain areas one day per week and only on
weekdays thereby giving back weekends to residents to enjoy without having to endure
the noise of these machines.
I appreciate your attention and your consideration of this request.
-- Mark Miller
 
 
https://www.burlingame.org/573/Leaf-Blowers
https://www.hillsborough.net/618/Leaf-Blowers-in-Hillsborough
https://www.losaltosca.gov/development-services/page/gas-powered-leaf-blowers-
prohibited
 
https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=202120220AB1346
 
--
Sent from my mobile internet communicator
 
 
--
Sent from my mobile internet communicator
 
162 of 162