--- page 1 ---
PHOTO Smith Collection/Gado/Getty Images
BUSINESS & TECH
SF Adds New Flock Safeguards Following
Human Rights Commission Investigation
By Leanne Maxwell
•
September 29, 2026 · 11:49 AM PDT
•
3 min read
ADVERTISEMENT
SUBSCRIBE

--- page 2 ---
San Francisco is tightening rules for its Flock license plate
cameras after a Human Rights Commission investigation
found oversight gaps in the system, although the city did not
implement all of the commission's recommendations.
Amid growing public outcry over privacy concerns, Mayor Daniel Lurie
announced new policies Thursday addressing several recommendations
by the Human Rights Commission regarding Flock camera surveillance,
as Mission Local reports. The investigation was prompted by reporting
from earlier this year that out-of-state and federal agencies had accessed
SFPD's Flock data more than 1.6 million times between August 2024 and
February 2025.
Under the new policy, the SFPD will continue retaining automated
license plate-reader data from its collection of more than 400 Flock
cameras for 12 months, but officers will need police leadership approval
to access data more than 30 days old. They must also demonstrate a
connection to an active criminal investigation. 
The SFPD will also remove its data from the Flock platform after 30 days.
All Flock searches will reportedly require an incident report, with
monthly reviews of search logs by the department and an annual audit by
the Department of Police Accountability.
The city's 30-day limit is less restrictive than Flock's own newly
announced default. In August, Flock announced that it had reduced its
SHARE THIS STORY

--- page 3 ---
standard retention period from 30 days to seven days.
The company also announced the rollout of a new Evidence Mode feature
that allows investigators to preserve specific data for an active case after
that period, as well as an Audit Assistance tool, which flags unusual
searches for administrator review, although the ACLU has questioned
how those safeguards will work in practice.
The new San Francisco rules come as the local Democratic Party has
continued to support the cameras despite the scrutiny surrounding them.
According to Mission Local, the San Francisco Democratic Party voted
11-3 last week to affirm its support for the city's continued use of Flock
cameras, with four members abstaining and 13 absent. Two committee
members, Lily Ho and Trevor Chandler, are reportedly Flock employees
and voted on the resolution, as the party has no conflict-of-interest rule
covering votes like this one.
The vote followed a separate resolution from former Supervisor Gordon
Mar calling for stronger guardrails and consideration of suspending the
city's Flock contract, which was rejected, per Mission Local.
Party Chair Nancy Tung also came under scrutiny after the SF Standard
reported that she received a $10,000 donation from tech billionaire Chris
Larsen in August and subsequently used her Democratic Party
officeholder account to purchase a $347 flight to Atlanta for Flock's law-
enforcement conference, where she spoke about San Francisco's public-
safety efforts. Tung said the donation and Flock's outreach did not
influence her actions.

--- page 4 ---
Larsen has separately donated roughly $12 million to San Francisco
Police Department surveillance efforts, according to the Standard. Much
of the money has funded the department’s Real-Time Investigation
Center, which is housed in property owned by Larsen’s company Ripple
Labs.
While the Human Rights Commission's investigation found that SFPD had
not violated San Francisco's sanctuary laws when outside agencies
accessed its Flock data, the commission found that SFPD did not know
Flock had enabled its Nationwide Lookup feature, as Mission Local
reports.
The city's new policy addresses three of the commission's
recommendations, but does not fully adopt all five. In particular, the
commission called for SFPD to have direct control over Flock's
Nationwide Lookup feature. Per Mission Local, the SFPD has since
disabled Nationwide Lookup, but the city's new policy does not give the
department direct control over the feature from Flock.
The department also opted not to fully implement the commission's
recommendation to turn on all available camera settings to improve
transparency.
The American Civil Liberties Union has been more critical of Flock's
safeguards. In an October 2025 analysis, the organization argued that self-
reported search logs are a weak check on surveillance systems because
officers themselves document why they searched the data. In a six-month
dataset of 11.4 million Flock searches, more than 14% of search-reason
fields contained only the word "investigation."

--- page 5 ---
TOPICS
Business & Tech
license plate readers
surveillance cameras
information security
After Flock announced its seven-day retention policy in August, the ACLU
said the change could be beneficial but warned that Evidence Mode could
allow investigators to preserve data beyond those seven days, depending
on how the feature is implemented. It also said Flock's Audit Assistance
tool has never been independently evaluated, making its effectiveness
difficult to assess.
Per Mission Local, Flock's contract extension will be up for a vote with
the Board of Supervisors in February 2027.
A local group called DeFlockSF has a map of all the cameras in San
Francisco.
Related: ‘DeFlock SF’ Maps Local Cameras, Spreads Awareness About
Flock Surveillance
SF
KEEP SFIST IN YOUR NEWS MIX
Make SFist a preferred source
Choose SFist to see more of our local reporting in Google’s Top Stories.
Add to Preferred Sources

--- page 6 ---
EXPLORE
Latest Posts
ABOUT SFIST
About
CONTINUE READING
Latest from SFist
MORE STORIES →
JOIN THE CONVERSATION
Comments
Comments load automatically as this section approaches.
LOAD COMMENTS NOW
Leanne Maxwell
SFist’s associate editor, loves learning about
the people and places in the Bay Area. Enjoys
connecting dots and spotlighting overlooked
subjects. Contact: leanne.sfist@gmail.com
More from Leanne Maxwell

--- page 7 ---
Independent San Francisco
news, culture, food, and
city life since 2004.
SFist Jobs
Best of San Francisco
Staff
Editorial Standards
Corrections Policy
Contact
FOLLOW
Instagram
Bluesky
Facebook
X / Twitter
RSS
© 2026 Impress3 Media, Inc.
Privacy Policy
Terms