--- page 1 ---
SF NEWS
Lawsuit Says SFPD’s Flock Cameras
Were Accessed by Federal Agencies 1.6
Million Times
By Leanne Maxwell
•
February 28, 2026 · 5:07 PM PST
•
2 min read
ADVERTISEMENT
SUBSCRIBE

--- page 2 ---
A local law firm filed a lawsuit against Flock alleging federal
agencies accessed data from the SFPD’s cameras more than 1.6
million times, and a recent audit by El Cerrito's police department
found that several federal agencies briefly accessed its data.
As KTVU reports, Oakland-based law firm Gibbs Mura filed a class-action
lawsuit Thursday claiming that data from Flock Safety’s license plate
readers was obtained by federal and out-of-state agencies more than 1.6
million times during a seven-month period, and Los Altos’s readers
reportedly shared information to out-of-state agencies more than a
million times. No further details have been provided about the case.
“The problem that we allege, is that Flock is sharing this information on
California drivers with out-of-state law enforcement and the federal
government, which is illegal under California law,” says David Berger, a
partner with Gibbs Mura, per KTVU.
SHARE THIS STORY

--- page 3 ---
“They have to be beholden to the laws they claim they are trying to
enforce, just like everybody else,” Berger added.
Flock released a statement, saying the company “takes privacy, legal
compliance, and data security extremely seriously,” adding, “Flock
intends to vigorously defend itself against the asserted claims and
allegations.”
NBC Bay Area reports that an audit by the El Cerrito Police Department
verified that federal agencies accessed the department’s data from Flock's
cameras without its knowledge, including the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms, and the GSA
Office of the Inspector General, when the cameras were first installed in
June 2023 until the police department took administrative control of the
system two months later.
KTVU FOX 2 San Francisco
Lawsuit alleges Flock cameras violate Californians' privacy
Lawsuit alleges Flock cameras violate Californians' privacy
Watch on

--- page 4 ---
As Contra Costa News reports, federal agencies gained access to the
ECPD’s database two more times after safeguards had reportedly been
installed. Between September and November 2023, the United States
Postal Inspection searched ECPD’s database. Additionally, over two days
in May 2025, the Loma Linda Healthcare System Veterans Affairs Police
searched the database.
Per Contra Costa News, Flock reported that the company promptly fixed
flaws in the department’s settings that allowed the agencies to access the
database. Regarding the Loma Linda Healthcare Systems Veterans Affairs
Police, Flock says the agency was incorrectly labeled as a state agency.
“We found these two other incidents of federal sharing that came as a
surprise to me,” Chief Paul Keith of the El Cerrito Police Department said.
NBC Bay Area
Federal agencies gain access to Flock cameras in El Cerrito
Federal agencies gain access to Flock cameras in El Cerrito
Watch on

--- page 5 ---
TOPICS
SF News
speed cameras
san francisco police department
sfpd
Oakland
lawsuit
federal
california law
El Cerrito
FBI
San Jose
Per KTVU, the San Jose Police Department implemented safeguards,
including requiring more documentation from outside agencies, limiting
camera locations, and reducing data retention to 30 days instead of a
year, per NBC Bay Area.
Additionally, as KTVU reported Wednesday, the Mountain View City
Council voted unanimously to end the city's contract with Flock, and
pressure is also mounting in the city of Richmond. As Axios reports, a
federal agency accessed the Richmond Police Department's Flock
cameras last year before the department blocked access to all federal
agencies.
Per NBC Bay Area, Keith will provide further details about the El Cerrito
police department's audit at El Cerrito’s city council meeting on March
10.
Image: Tony Webster/Wikimedia
Previously: Report: Flock Safety, Maker of SF’s License Plate Reader
Cameras, Had Gobsmacking Security Flaw
SF
KEEP SFIST IN YOUR NEWS MIX
Make SFist a preferred source
Choose SFist to see more of our local reporting in Google’s Top Stories.

--- page 6 ---
CONTINUE READING
Latest from SFist
MORE STORIES →
JOIN THE CONVERSATION
Comments
Comments load automatically as this section approaches.
LOAD COMMENTS NOW
Leanne Maxwell
SFist’s associate editor, loves learning about
the people and places in the Bay Area. Enjoys
connecting dots and spotlighting overlooked
subjects. Contact: leanne.sfist@gmail.com
More from Leanne Maxwell
Add to Preferred Sources

--- page 7 ---
DO NOT SELL OR SHARE MY PERSONAL INFORMATION
Independent San Francisco
news, culture, food, and
city life since 2004.
EXPLORE
Latest Posts
SFist Jobs
Best of San Francisco
ABOUT SFIST
About
Staff
Editorial Standards
Corrections Policy
Contact
FOLLOW
Instagram
Bluesky
Facebook
X / Twitter
RSS
© 2026 Impress3 Media, Inc.
Privacy Policy
Terms