Lawsuit Says SFPD’s Flock Cameras Were Accessed by Federal Agencies 1.6 Million Times Explore SFist News Politics Business & Tech Sports Food & Drink Arts & Entertainment Contact Subscribe Subscribe SF News Lawsuit Says SFPD’s Flock Cameras Were Accessed by Federal Agencies 1.6 Million Times By Leanne Maxwell • February 28, 2026 · 5:07 PM PST • 2 min read X Facebook Copy link A local law firm filed a lawsuit against Flock alleging federal agencies accessed data from the SFPD’s cameras more than 1.6 million times, and a recent audit by El Cerrito's police department found that several federal agencies briefly accessed its data. As KTVU reports , Oakland-based law firm Gibbs Mura filed a class-action lawsuit Thursday claiming that data from Flock Safety’s license plate readers was obtained by federal and out-of-state agencies more than 1.6 million times during a seven-month period, and Los Altos’s readers reportedly shared information to out-of-state agencies more than a million times. No further details have been provided about the case. “The problem that we allege, is that Flock is sharing this information on California drivers with out-of-state law enforcement and the federal government, which is illegal under California law,” says David Berger, a partner with Gibbs Mura, per KTVU. “They have to be beholden to the laws they claim they are trying to enforce, just like everybody else,” Berger added. Flock released a statement, saying the company “takes privacy, legal compliance, and data security extremely seriously,” adding, “Flock intends to vigorously defend itself against the asserted claims and allegations.” NBC Bay Area reports that an audit by the El Cerrito Police Department verified that federal agencies accessed the department’s data from Flock's cameras without its knowledge, including the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms, and the GSA Office of the Inspector General, when the cameras were first installed in June 2023 until the police department took administrative control of the system two months later. As Contra Costa News reports , federal agencies gained access to the ECPD’s database two more times after safeguards had reportedly been installed. Between September and November 2023, the United States Postal Inspection searched ECPD’s database. Additionally, over two days in May 2025, the Loma Linda Healthcare System Veterans Affairs Police searched the database. Per Contra Costa News, Flock reported that the company promptly fixed flaws in the department’s settings that allowed the agencies to access the database. Regarding the Loma Linda Healthcare Systems Veterans Affairs Police, Flock says the agency was incorrectly labeled as a state agency. “We found these two other incidents of federal sharing that came as a surprise to me,” Chief Paul Keith of the El Cerrito Police Department said. Per KTVU, the San Jose Police Department implemented safeguards, including requiring more documentation from outside agencies, limiting camera locations, and reducing data retention to 30 days instead of a year, per NBC Bay Area. Additionally, as KTVU reported Wednesday , the Mountain View City Council voted unanimously to end the city's contract with Flock, and pressure is also mounting in the city of Richmond. As Axios reports , a federal agency accessed the Richmond Police Department's Flock cameras last year before the department blocked access to all federal agencies. Per NBC Bay Area, Keith will provide further details about the El Cerrito police department's audit at El Cerrito’s city council meeting on March 10. Image: Tony Webster /Wikimedia Previously: Report: Flock Safety, Maker of SF’s License Plate Reader Cameras, Had Gobsmacking Security Flaw Topics SF News speed cameras san francisco police department sfpd Oakland lawsuit federal california law El Cerrito FBI San Jose SF Keep SFist in your news mix Make SFist a preferred source Choose SFist to see more of our local reporting in Google’s Top Stories. Leanne Maxwell SFist’s associate editor, loves learning about the people and places in the Bay Area. Enjoys connecting dots and spotlighting overlooked subjects. Contact: leanne.sfist@gmail.com More from Leanne Maxwell Continue reading Latest from SFist More stories → Latest Stories Join the conversation Comments Comments load automatically as this section approaches. Load comments now — Lawsuit Says SFPD’s Flock Cameras Were Accessed by Federal Agencies 1.6 Million Times Share this Independent San Francisco news, culture, food, and city life since 2004. Explore Latest Posts SFist Jobs Best of San Francisco About SFist About Staff Editorial Standards Corrections Policy Contact Follow Instagram Bluesky Facebook X / Twitter RSS © 2026 Impress3 Media, Inc. Privacy Policy Terms ✕ The city, in your inbox Start your morning with SFist. A concise daily briefing of the San Francisco stories worth knowing, delivered free. Email address Subscribe No spam. Unsubscribe whenever you like. Check your inbox to confirm your subscription.