--- page 1 ---
PHOTO Tony Webster /Wikimedia
SF NEWS
‘DeFlock SF’ Maps Local Cameras,
Spreads Awareness About
Flock Surveillance
By Leanne Maxwell
•
September 16, 2026 · 11:10 AM PDT
•
2 min read
ADVERTISEMENT
SUBSCRIBE

--- page 2 ---
A local group has launched “DeFlock SF,” a hub mapping
Flock and other automated license plate reader cameras
around San Francisco, while tracking news and controversy
surrounding the surveillance technology.
In response to concerns surrounding the 400 Flock cameras across San
Francisco that were installed by the SFPD, the group behind DeFlock SF
is documenting the city's growing network of automated license plate
readers, as well as updates on legislation and court cases.
DeFlock SF’s map draws from the national DeFlock database, which
reportedly tracks Flock cameras and other ALPR devices, as well as
public cameras, speed cameras, and other sensors. 
As NBC Bay Area reports, DeFlock SF founder Zachary Schwartz has
emerged as a prominent critic of the San Francisco Police Department’s
use of Flock cameras. He appeared before the Police Commission earlier
this summer to call for a comprehensive audit of how the cameras are
being used and what data they collect.
The DeFlock SF project stems from growing concerns about who can
access the information collected by the cameras. Earlier this year, it was
revealed that federal agencies had accessed San Francisco’s license plate-
reading data. A police spokesperson told NBC Bay Area that the data has
since been walled off.
SHARE THIS STORY

--- page 3 ---
A separate 3D map being developed from the same data recently counted
2,608 documented devices within 10 miles of San Francisco, which the
creator described on Reddit as one of the densest concentrations they
had found.
sanfrancisco
Join
Posted by rbprepin · 22 days ago
I made a 3D map of documented Flock cameras and ALPRs around San
Francisco
363 upvotes
Comment
Copy link
View 72 comments
View on Reddit

--- page 4 ---
Both maps show cameras concentrated along major traffic routes
including Van Ness Avenue and Market Street, with clusters in
neighborhoods such as the Mission and South of Market. One Redditor
highlighted the particularly large number of cameras around Dore Alley,
where the annual “Up Your Alley” queer leather fetish event takes place,
calling the concentration “frightening.”
According to DeFlock, there are an estimated 100,000 Flock cameras and
other ALPR devices across the US that collectively scan about 20 billion
license plates each month. Flock’s system differs from some other ALPR
networks in that it automatically allows participating law enforcement
agencies to share and search license plate data across jurisdictions.
DeFlock SF says SFPD has spent nearly $4 million on the system, with
annual renewal costs of about $1.2 million.
Concerns about potential misuse have also surfaced elsewhere in the Bay
Area. The Bay Area News Group reported over the weekend that the San
Jose Police Department recently fired an officer accused of sharing Flock
data with a family member involved in a domestic violence situation,
which allegedly allowed the suspect to locate the victim. A criminal
investigation was also opened.
In San Francisco, an SFPD spokesperson told NBC Bay Area that officers
are only permitted to search the system using a case number or
computer-aided dispatch number. The department has also credited
license plate-reading cameras with helping reduce certain crimes,
including vehicle burglaries. SFPD said there were more than 19,000 car

--- page 5 ---
TOPICS
SF News
license plate readers
surveillance cameras
sfpd
burglaries in 2023, before the cameras were installed, compared with
1,764 so far this year.
Schwartz said the DeFlock SF campaign is intended in part to make the
technology more visible to the public.
“Right now, what’s really important is to educate people about the
cameras,” Schwartz said, speaking to NBC Bay Area. “So then in the
future, hopefully enough people are educated about it that they can
actually go ahead and make change, whether that’s through banning
them or through policy changes.”
Related: Lawsuit Says SFPD’s Flock Cameras Were Accessed by Federal
Agencies 1.6 Million Times
SF
KEEP SFIST IN YOUR NEWS MIX
Make SFist a preferred source
Choose SFist to see more of our local reporting in Google’s Top Stories.
Add to Preferred Sources

--- page 6 ---
CONTINUE READING
Latest from SFist
MORE STORIES →
JOIN THE CONVERSATION
Comments
Comments load automatically as this section approaches.
LOAD COMMENTS NOW
Leanne Maxwell
SFist’s associate editor, loves learning about
the people and places in the Bay Area. Enjoys
connecting dots and spotlighting overlooked
subjects. Contact: leanne.sfist@gmail.com
More from Leanne Maxwell

--- page 7 ---
Independent San Francisco
news, culture, food, and
city life since 2004.
EXPLORE
Latest Posts
SFist Jobs
Best of San Francisco
ABOUT SFIST
About
Staff
Editorial Standards
Corrections Policy
Contact
FOLLOW
Instagram
Bluesky
Facebook
X / Twitter
RSS
© 2026 Impress3 Media, Inc.
Privacy Policy
Terms