source: packet.pdf
sha256: cf8cd5a636267cf3879072c8d94fd3cacb4e21d8fdaa37a930012dc8507568c2
pages: 84
ocr_pages: 2
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commission 
November 12, 2020
7:00 PM
Remote Meeting
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
Susan Rowinski, Chair 
Jackie Nuñez, Vice Chair
Clifford Robbins
Rafael Reyes
Adam Loraine
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS – 
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN­PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here:  November 12, 2020 Meeting
To join via telephone:  (408) 638­0968 
 Conference ID:  821 8731 4300    Passcode: 706805
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes ‐ Approval
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting of October 14,
2020.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to Speak"
form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be referred to staff
for further review.
OLD BUSINESS
1.
Temporary Storage Containers in the Public Right‐of‐Way ‐ Update and Recommendation
Receive an update on temporary storage containers in the public right‐of‐way and recommend City Council
adopt a new fee for temporary storage containers in the FY 2020‐21 Comprehensive Fee Schedule and related
Municipal Code amendments.
NEW BUSINESS
1.
Leaf Blower Regulations
Receive an informational report regarding leaf blower regulation policy options and make a recommendation
1 of 84

--- page 2 ---
to City Council whether or not to consider an update to the City’s leaf blower regulations as a City Council
priority during their upcoming goal setting session.
2.
South Downtown Residential Parking Permit Program (RPPP) Zone Modification ‐ Appeal of Director's
Determination
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission conduct an appeal hearing of a Residential Parking Permit
Program (RPPP) modification request, uphold the Director of Public Works' decision, and adopt a Statement
of Decision and Findings.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items
ADJOURNMENT
­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website by the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be
viewed on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the
posting of the agenda will be made part of the official record. 
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Commission meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522‐7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522‐7040, Monday‐Friday, 8 a.m. ‐ 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel‐San‐Mateo‐Live‐Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted
by default. When the item of interest is open for consideration, press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the
appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638‐0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. To indicate
you want to provide public comment, when the item of interest is open for consideration, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon press * 6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to
participate in this meeting may contact Public Works Office at (650) 522‐7300 or kaplan@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours
prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 84

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
File ID: 2018 - 20-3761
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Brad Underwood
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 12, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting of October 14, 2020.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes of the October 14, 2020 meeting
3 of 84

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission  
October 14, 2020 
7:00 PM 
 
Remote Meeting 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS  
Susan Rowinski, Chair  
Jackie Nuñez, Vice Chair 
Clifford Robbins 
Rafael Reyes 
Adam Loraine 
MINUTES 
  
 
CALL TO ORDER 
  
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call 
Present:  Chair Rowinski, Vice Chair Nuñez, Commissioners Reyes, Robbins, and Loraine 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
 Motion by Commissioner Loraine to approve the minutes of September 9, 2020, seconded by 
Commissioner Robbins.  Motion carried by the following vote:  
 
Yes:  Chair Rowinski, Vice Chair Nuñez, Commissioners Robbins, Loraine, and Reyes 
 
1. Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes - Approval 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a “Request 
to Speak” form.  State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda.  Your comments 
may be referred to staff for further review. 
 
Karen Grove spoke on support of Measure RR and added that additional information can be found at 
www.greencaltrain.org 
 
Eric Wohlford asked that staff look at issues that affect the North Central neighborhood regarding the 
Bicycle/Pedestrian Masterplans.  The new Bicycle/Pedestrian Masterplans show less bicycle access 
for those living in the North Central neighborhood as they are no longer able to access North 
Delaware.  (Commissioner Reyes asked Mr. Wohlford to send a separate email to the Commission 
with his concerns.) 
 
Drew (no last name given) suggested that staff publish the password on the agenda for the public 
Zoom meetings.  (Chair Rowinski asked Drew to reach out to the City Clerk’s office for their feedback.) 
 
 
 
 
4 of 84

--- page 5 ---
NEW BUSINESS  
  
2. Downtown Parking Garage Pedestrian Safety Project – Draft Recommendations Review and 
Feedback 
Nicolette Chan, Assistant Transportation Planner, and Shruti Shrivastava, Transportation Project 
Manager for Advanced Mobility Group, presented the report and asked the Commission to review the 
draft recommendations memo and provide feedback on the recommended pedestrian safety 
improvements for the Downtown Parking Garage Pedestrian Safety Project.  Sue-Ellen Atkinson, 
Principal Transportation Planner was also available to answer questions. 
 
Public Comment: 
Drew (no last name given) spoke to the item 
 
No motion needed for this item. 
 
3. Temporary Storage Containers in Public Right-of-Way – Feedback and Recommendation. 
Nicolette Chan, Assistant Transportation Planner, asked the Commission to review and recommend to 
City Council adopt a new fee for temporary storage containers in the FY 2020-21 Comprehensive Fee 
Schedule and related Municipal Code amendments.  Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation 
Planner was also available to answer questions. 
 
Public Comment: 
Drew (no last name given) spoke to the item. 
 
Staff withdrew the request for recommendation and will bring this item back in November, 
incorporating recommendations and comments from the Commission, which include:  clarify maximum 
width on narrower streets; notification to third party; option for one-time extension; consider permit fee 
amount and waiver for low income; signage to include contact information, dates container would be 
on the street; and  placement of containers on non-residential streets. 
 
4. Disposable Food Service Ware Ordinance 
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst asked the Commission to review policy options to address 
disposable food service ware and make a policy recommendation to City Council. Roxanne Murray, 
Waste Management Supervisor was also available to answer questions. 
 
Public Comment: 
Drew (no last name given) and Carol Steinfeld spoke to the item.  Ms. Steinfeld also submitted an 
email as public record. 
 
After discussion and comments from the Commissioners, all supported the County model and 
suggested researching prices, explore advance education, and practice of “Upon Request” only. 
 
Motion was not needed. 
 
5 of 84

--- page 6 ---
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENT FROM COMMISSIONER AND STAFF 
 
Director Underwood announced that he is retiring at the end of the year and thanked staff and 
Commissioners for all their support, stating that is has been a pleasure to serve with the Commission 
and staff as his last stop in public service. 
 
Assistant City Manager Kleinbaum reminded the Commission that Veterans Day falls on Wednesday, 
November 11, therefore, the commission meeting will be held on Thursday, November 12. 
 
Andrea Chow shared several highlights: 
• Bay Area Sun Shares Program runs thru November; 
• San Mateo was recognized by the Institute for Local Government Beacon program for our 
ongoing work supporting the environment; 
• The City received a Silver Level award for achieving 8% energy savings in City facilities and a 
Gold Level award for reducing greenhouse gas emission by 18% community-wide; 
• On October 5, the Council adopted reach codes requiring new construction of residential and 
office buildings be all-electric and not use natural gas; 
• San Mateo will also be hosting a free Native Plant and Pollinator Garden Virtual workshop on 
Wednesday, October 21 from 7-8:30 p.m. and Zero Waste Chef Virtual workshop on Saturday, 
October 24 from 10-11:30 a.m. 
 
Commissioner Reyes updated the Commission on incentives from Peninsula Clean Energy; $1000 
rebates on new electric vehicle purchase; solar and battery backup rebates; electric vehicle charging 
incentives; and free technical assistance for building electrification.  For further information folks can 
go to www.peninsulacleanenergy.com 
 
Director Underwood will respond via email to Commissioners on a letter received regarding touchless 
pedestrian intersections. 
 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Meeting adjourned at 10:10 PM 
 
Agendas and background material are posted on the City’s website www.cityofanmateo.org at least 72 hours preceding 
each Commission meeting.  Any supplemental material distributed to Commissioners after the posting of the agenda will be 
available for public review at City Hall, City Manager’s office. 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
 
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to 
participate in this meeting may contact the Public Works Department, at (650) 522-7300.  Notification 48 hours prior to the 
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting. 
 
6 of 84

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 20-3767
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Brad Underwood
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 12, 2020
SUBJECT:
Temporary Storage Containers in the Public Right-of-Way - Update and Recommendation
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an update on temporary storage containers in the public right-of-way and recommend City Council adopt a new 
fee for temporary storage containers in the FY 2020-21 Comprehensive Fee Schedule and related Municipal Code 
amendments.
BACKGROUND:
Storage containers or portable on demand storage (pods) are enclosed containers used to temporarily store household 
items for moving. City staff have received an increasing number of requests from residents to place a temporary storage 
container on-street in front of their residence as part of their moving process. Many of the requests received are from 
residents who live in multi-family housing or have insufficient driveways and do not have the option of placing the storage 
container on private property. 
Temporary storage containers may be placed on private property, e.g. a driveway, without an encroachment permit. 
Pursuant to the City’s Municipal Code Section 17.08.020, storage containers may not be placed in the public right-of-way 
for more than one hour at a time and are not expressly allowed with an encroachment permit as similar obstructions in 
the public right-of-way are allowed. 
Staff presented recommendations for permitting temporary storage containers in the public right-of-way to the 
Commission in October 2020. Commissioners provided feedback on the policy and requested staff make modifications per 
their comments and return with a revised policy. Staff has evaluated the comments from the Commission and provided 
the recommendations below. 
Permit Cost. The Commission provided feedback that the proposed $181 permit fee and $350 deposit may 
disproportionately impact low-income households and expressed interest in a low-income waiver for the fees. 

The proposed fee is based on the anticipated cost of staff time and the deposit encourages applicants to close 
the permit.  Staff recommends retaining the proposed fee and deposit but modifying the policy to provide a 
waiver for the fee and deposit for low-income households in a manner consistent with other City policies and 
programs.    
Time Limit on Containers in Right-of-Way. Commissioners noted the proposed 5-day limit may not be sufficient time to 
support resident needs. Staff conducted research among other cities and found most residents use a temporary storage 
container for no more than 2 weeks. Staff also consulted temporary storage container companies regarding rental 
timeframes and did not identify a minimum rental period, however most companies charge a minimum monthly fee 
7 of 84

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
regardless of how long the container is rented. 

Staff recommends allowing temporary storage containers in the public right-of-way for a maximum of 7 days 
with the possibility of renewal (discussed below).  The increase from 5 to 7 days ensures that one weekend is 
included in the initial permit timeframe.
Permit Renewal. Commissioners expressed interest in allowing permit renewals to allow residents to place a container on-
street for longer than the 7-day initial permit time limit. Staff contacted other cities that allow permit renewals for 
temporary storage containers. The City of Burlingame and Santa Monica have a 3-day and 2-week time limit, respectively. 
For renewals, Burlingame charges a renewal rate of $10 per parking space per day and Santa Monica charges a flat fee of 
$51.76. Additionally, permit renewals in Burlingame are dependent on whether complaints are received about the 
container.

Staff recommends allowing permit renewals at a rate of $10 per space per day up to a maximum of 
7 additional days. With a daily renewal, residents will not be forced to pay for more time than necessary.  Staff 
also recommends that approval for a permit renewal be contingent upon whether valid complaints have been 
received about the container related to safety concerns such as site visibility.
Placement of Containers. Staff received comments from the Commission regarding placing temporary storage containers 
in non-residential areas and on streets with a narrow street width. Staff consulted with the Public Works Traffic Division 
and the Fire Department on appropriate street widths that can accommodate temporary storage containers.

Staff recommends adding a requirement that temporary storage containers may only be placed on residential 
streets where on-street parking is allowed. Additionally, on streets with a marked centerline staff recommends 
allowing containers provided a 10-foot travel lane can be maintained. For streets with unmarked parking stalls 
and no centerline, staff recommends allowing containers if a 12-foot, clear path-of-travel for vehicles can be 
maintained.
Notification to Neighbors Adjacent to the Container. The Commission provided feedback regarding the requirement for 
the Permittee to notify the property owner(s) or tenant(s) closest to the storage container location if the container is not 
placed in front of the Permittee’s residence. 

Staff will develop a template notification letter that residents can provide to neighbors to satisfy the 
requirement to notify adjacent property owner(s) or tenant(s) should the container be placed in front of 
another residence. With limited staff resources, staff recommends the Permittee notify their neighbors about 
the storage container as a courtesy notice.
Signage on the Storage Container. Staff received feedback that signage should be posted on the container displaying the 
dates the container will be on the street and the property owner or tenant’s contact information. The City of Palo Alto and 
San Francisco require that a copy of the encroachment permit, which contains relevant contact information and permit 
dates, be posted on the container.

Staff recommends requiring a copy of the encroachment permit be posted on the container. The 
encroachment permit contains the Permittee’s contact information, the dates the container will be placed on 
the street, and the City’s contact information. This requirement would also aid in enforcement by informing 
City inspectors which temporary storage containers on the street have valid permits from the City.
Staff will create a City webpage where residents can find information about temporary storage containers. The webpage 
will include instructions for how to apply, clear guidelines about where storage containers can be placed, and the 
conditions of approval. Contact information for the Public Works Department will also be provided for residents who have 
questions, want to submit a complaint, or would like to inquire about the proposed storage container location prior to 
beginning the application process.  
8 of 84

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Next Steps
Once recommended by the Commission, City staff will present an ordinance to amend the Municipal Code and a resolution 
to modify the Comprehensive Fee Schedule to the City Council in late 2020/early 2021.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The recommended encroachment permit fee for storage containers will not have a significant impact on the Department's 
budgeted revenue. The permit fee covers staff time and does not generate revenue.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This fee review is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result 
in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Encroachment Permit Packet
Att 2 - Proposed Conditions of Approval
Att 3 - Proposed Revisions to Municipal Code Chapter 17.08.020
STAFF CONTACT
Nicolette Chan, Assistant Transportation Planner
nchan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7326
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
9 of 84

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS 
ENCROACHMENT PERMIT PROCEDURES 
1. A Public Works Encroachment Permit is required for any work within the City right-of-way (street/sidewalk
area), public easements, or utility easements (see Subdivision Map or Title Report for easement locations).
Typical examples of work requiring this permit are sewer lateral connections to the City’s sewer main,
installing a City-approved sewer cleanout, removing and replacing driveway approaches and sidewalks,
installing a sidewalk underdrain, or installing a dock in the lagoon (for dock installation or repairs, applicant
must also fill out Dock Application Form).
2. The property owner and/or contractor performing the work are required to fill out and submit an encroachment
permit application (attached). The application shall include a diagram, with dimensions, showing the
proposed work and traffic control plan if applicable.  If a contractor is performing the work, the contractor
is required to have a current City of San Mateo business license on file with the Finance Department. Any
permit application or rider that includes utility work or traffic control plans shall be submitted for
review a minimum of ten (10) business days prior to the scheduled start date. Please note the typical
review time may be extended if the applicant is asked to revise and resubmit plans.
3.
If Public Works has no objections to the proposed work, an encroachment permit will be issued subject to
specific and general conditions (typical City of San Mateo General Conditions attached), and subject to the
applicant providing the following information:
a.
Commercial general liability (or comprehensive) and property damage insurance indicating the
City of San Mateo as an additional insured (insurance standard attached).
b.
Payment of the encroachment permit fee.  The minimum fee based on the 2019-20 Fee Schedule 
is $896.00 (a portion of this fee will be applied to the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program
– STOPPP).
c.
Payment of the security deposit.  The deposit per the Permit Computation Worksheet is based on
the value of the new improvements plus 50% of the new improvements value for labor and
materials.
d.
Approved Traffic Control Plan (TCP). TCP requirements attached.
4. Once the encroachment permit is issued, the permittee must notify the Public Works Inspector 72 hours prior
to the initial start of work or any inspection (see general condition #5).
5. Encroachment permit security deposits are not refunded until the Public Works Inspector has reviewed the
work, and signed off the permit as being complete.  Deposits paid by check, or credit card generally take 2-
3 weeks after work has been completed to be refunded, and are processed through the Finance Department.
Deposits paid by performance, labor, and materials bonds or letters of credit are released by the Public Works
Department in writing and returned to the applicant.
6. Encroachment permit fees are non-refundable.
If you have any questions, or need additional information regarding the Public Works 
Encroachment Permit process, please email pwencroachment@cityofsanmateo.org
Rev.06/19 
10 of 84

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO  
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT 
ENCROACHMENT PERMIT GENERAL CONDITIONS (Page 1 of 3) 
1. Responsible Party: No party other than the named permittee or their agent is authorized to work under this permit.
2. Acceptance of Provisions: It is understood and agreed by the permittee that commencement of work authorized by the issuance of this
permit shall constitute acceptance of the provisions of this permit and all attachments.
3. Allow ed Hours of Work: Before starting work under the Encroachment Permit, the permittee shall notify the City forty-eight (48)
hours prior to initial start of work.   When work has been interrupted for more than five (5) working days, an additional 24-hour
notification is required before restarting work unless a pre-arranged agreement has been made with the City. Construction activities are
restricted to weekdays between 7:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. in the public right-of-way, but may vary depending on scope and location.  No set
up or take down activities are allowed outside of these hours. Requests for work hours outside of the approved hours require submittal
of a Work Hours Waiver Form. Earth-hauls and materials delivery to and from the site are prohibited between the hours of 7:30 a.m. and
8:30 a.m., and 4:00 p.m. and 5:30 p.m. Hauling routes must be submitted in writing and approved by the City, prior to the commencement
of work. Haul routes are only allowed on the City Approved Truck Route Map (dated 2008).  The map is attached to this document for
reference.
Holiday Construction Moratorium:  Due to concerns for businesses within the vicinity of Hillsdale Shopping Center and within the
Downtown area during the holiday season (Monday prior to Thanksgiving – Jan 1), there shall be no construction activities within the public
right-of-way which would create lane closures, eliminate parking, create pedestrian detours, or other activities that may create a major
disturbance as determined by the Director of Public Works.  Prohibition on El Camino Real shall be along its entire length within the City
limits.  For Hillsdale Shopping Center, the construction prohibition streets shall include Hillsdale Blvd between US 101 and SR 92, 31st
Avenue between El Camino Real and Hacienda Street, and Edison Street and Hacienda Street in the vicinity of the shopping center.  The
limits of the Downtown area shall be defined as between El Camino Real on the west and Delaware Street on the east, Tilton Avenue on the
north, and 5th Avenue on the south.  The prohibition shall also include the 3rd and 4th Avenue corridors between Delaware Street and US 101.
4. Standards of Construction: All work shall be done in accordance with the most current APWA-AGC Standard Specifications for Public
Works Construction and the City of San Mateo Standard Drawings unless otherwise approved on the plans or in the permit.
5. Inspection and Approval by the City:  All work shall be subject to monitoring, inspection, and approval by the City.  All form work
must be inspected by the City prior to the placement of concrete.  The permittee shall request a final inspection and acceptance of the work.
Weekend and/or holiday inspection requests require 72-hours advance notice, a minimum $1,000.00 deposit to an inspection fee account,
and are contingent upon the availability of City personnel.  Inspection fees shall be based on the current fee schedule.
6. Keep Permit on the Work Site: The Encroachment Permit or a copy thereof shall be kept at the site of the work and must be shown to any
representative of the City or any law enforcement office on demand.  WORK SHALL BE SUSPENDED IF PERMIT IS NOT AT JOB
SITE AS PROVIDED.
7. Conflicting Permits: If a prior encroachment conflicts with the proposed work, the new permittee must arrange for any necessary removal
or relocation with the prior permittee.   Any such removal or relocation will be at the expense of the permittee.
8. Permits From Other Agencies: The party or parties to whom a permit is issued shall, whenever required by law, secure the written
authorization for any work that must be approved by the Public Utilities Commission (PUC) of the State of California, CALOSHA, Peninsula
Corridor Joint Powers Board, Caltrans, County of San Mateo or any other public agency having jurisdiction.   Failure to comply with the
law, as noted above, will invalidate the City’s encroachment permit.
9. Provisions for Pedestrians: Where facilities exist, a minimum sidewalk and bike path width of four feet (4') shall be maintained at all times
for safe passage through the work area.  At no time shall pedestrians be diverted onto a portion of the street used for vehicular traffic.  At
locations where adjacent alternate walkways cannot be provided, appropriate signs and barricades shall be installed at the limits of
construction and in advance of the closure at the nearest crosswalk or intersection to divert pedestrians across the street.  Pedestrian detour
plans shall be approved by the City prior to construction.
10. Protection of Traffic: Adequate provisions shall be made   for   the   protection   of   the   traveling   public. Warning signs, lights, safety
devices, and other measures required for the public safety, shall conform to the requirements of the Manual of Traffic Controls issued by
the State.  Traffic control for day or nighttime lane closures shall be in conformance with State Standard Plans for Traffic Control Systems.
Nothing in the permit is intended, as to third parties, to impose on permittee any duty, or standard of care, greater than or different from the
duty or standard of care imposed by law.  All traffic control plans, including lane closures, shall be reviewed and approved by
the City prior to implementation. Traffic control plan submittals shall conform to the City of San Mateo’s Traffic Control
Plan Requirements document attached.
11 of 84

--- page 12 ---
11. Trench Plating: Wherever  traffic  is  permitted  over  or  adjacent  to  trenches  and  other  depressions, Contractor shall furnish and
maintain steel plating unless other means of protecting the public  and  the  work  are  accepted  by  the  City.   Plates  shall  be  secured
against movement including shifting and rocking by use of adjustable cleats, shims and other devices such as anchor and keys.  No gaps
between plates and other deficiencies hazardous to bicycles shall be allowed; and the existing pavement shall be protected from damage.
Steel plating shall have a non-skid surface.  Steel plates used for bridging shall extend not less than 12 inches beyond the edges of the trench.
Steel plates shall conform to the following minimum thickness:
Trench Width
        Minimum Plate Thickness 
12 inches (300 mm) 
      .5 inches (13 mm) 
18 inches (450 mm) 
    .75 inches (19 mm) 
24 inches (600 mm) 
    .87 inches (22 mm) 
36 inches (900 mm) 
    .98 inches (25 mm) 
3.9 feet (1.2 m) 
     1.5 inches (38 mm) 
Recessed trench plates shall be used at the following locations:  All arterial streets, all collector streets, at trench alignments not parallel with 
or perpendicular to the direction of traffic and locations determined by City Engineer to be necessary. 
The Contractor shall prepare for placement of plates over trench by grinding a relief 12 inches wide on each side of the trench by the thickness 
of the steel plate so that the surface of the steel plate is level with the adjacent pavement surface. 
12. Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program:  Per City of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, permittee shall implement and maintain
measures to keep sediment, washwaters, equipment maintenance products, and other construction related materials debris from entering the
storm drainage system.  Dumping or discharge into the City’s storm drainage system is prohibited.   Measures to protect the storm drainage
system shall be in place prior to start of work.  A portion of the encroachment permit fee collected goes toward the funding of the STOPPP
program.
13. Making Repairs: In every case, the permittee shall be responsible for restoring to its former condition as nearly as may be possible any
portion of the City right- of-way, which has been excavated or otherwise disturbed by permittee. The permittee shall maintain the surface
over facilities placed under any permit.   If the right-of-way is not restored as herein provided for, and if the City elects to make repairs,
permittee agrees by acceptance of permit to bear the cost thereof.
14. Clean Up Right-of-Way:  Upon completion of the work, all brush, timber, scraps, material, etc., shall be entirely removed and the right-
of-way shall be left in as presentable a condition as existed before work started.
15. Cost of Work: Unless otherwise stated on the permit or other separate written agreement, all costs incurred for work within the City right-
of-way pursuant to this Encroachment Permit shall be borne by the permittee, and permittee    hereby    waives    all    claims    for
indemnification or contribution from the City for such work.
16. Refund of Security Deposit:   A refund will not be issued until the Public Works inspector has reviewed the work, and signed-off
the permit as being complete.
17. Maintenance of Right-of-Way: The permittee agrees, by acceptance of a permit, to properly maintain any encroachment.   This will
require inspection and repair of any damage to City facilities resulting from the encroachment.
18. Archaeological: The permittee shall cease work in the vicinity of any archaeological resources that are revealed.  The City shall be
notified immediately.  A qualified archaeologist, retained by the permittee, will evaluate the situation and make recommendations to the
City concerning the continuation of the work.
19. Future Moving of Installation: If the Encroachment Permit was issued at the request of the permittee, it is understood that whenever
City construction, reconstruction or maintenance work on the highway requires the installation to be moved, adjusted or relocated, the
permittee, at his/her sole expense, upon request of the Department, shall comply with said request.
20. Location of Existing Utilities: Attention is directed to the possible existence of underground facilities within the area of construction.
Prior to project work commencing, permittee is responsible for ascertaining the exact location of all underground facilities, to avoid any
potential change during construction.  Permittee is responsible for verifying all PG&E, water, cable TV, Pacific Bell, and City facilities
are clear or relocated from the area of work prior to construction.  Forty-eight (48) hours before commencing work, the permittee shall
contact Underground Service Alert (U.S.A.) at 1-800-227-2600 to verify elevations and locations of all existing utilities.  Permittee
must remove all paint utility markings associated with the project when job is completed.
General Conditions - Page 2 of 3 
12 of 84

--- page 13 ---
21. Utilization of Public Parking:  By acceptance of permit, the permittee agrees to pay for the utilization of any metered parking spaces
for the use of debris boxes, shipping containers, storage of materials, prolonged parking of construction-related vehicles, or any usage of a
metered parking space related to the encroachment permit, for as long as the parking spaces are not available for public use.  The fees shall
be based on the current fee schedule.  For non-metered public parking spaces utilized during construction, the permittee shall place
temporary “No Parking” signs.  These signs are available for purchase through the City’s Public Works Department.
22. Temporary Storage Containers:   If placed in street, requires a permit, must be legal parking space, cannot block site visibility, have
reflectors, and only for a maximum of 5 days.
23. Indemnity:  Permittee agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and
against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of Permittee’s activity, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s
sole negligence or willful misconduct.  Permittee agrees to defend CITY, it’s elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against
any such claims.
General Conditions - Page 3 of 3 
13 of 84

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO - DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS 
ENCROACHMENT PERMIT APPLICATION 
Required for all activities in the public right-of-way (ROW) or public easement (S.M.M.C. 17.08) 
COMPANY: 
CONTRACTOR'S LICENSE NO: 
ADDRESS: 
SAN MATEO BUSINESS LICENSE NO: 
CITY: 
ZIP: 
TELEPHONE: 
   EMAIL ADRESS: 
I/We hereby apply for an encroachment permit to perform the following work in accordance with the City of San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 17.08: 
1.
Project Address:
2. Property Owner:
3.
Describe work requested in the right-of-way:
4.
 On site contact name and cell phone number:
5.
 Proposed Start Date:
 Estimated Completion Date:  
6.
 Project related to current building permit?
 No    Yes     If yes, building permit number: 
7.
 List any other work at site:
8.
 Project related to dock installation?
    No    Yes              If yes, DOCK#:  
9.
 Project related to planning application?
   No    Yes              If yes, PA #:  
10. Drawing of proposed work attached?
 No    Yes  
*I/We agree to defend and indemnify the City, its officers, employees, and agents against, and will hold and save them and
each of them harmless from any and all actions, claims, damages to persons or properties, penalties, obligations, and 
liabilities that may be asserted by any person arising out of the negligent or intentionally tortious acts, negligent errors, or 
omissions of mine/ours, my/our officers, agents, employees, contractors, subcontractors, or invitees related to the work 
described in this application.  I/We attest that the above information is true to the best of my knowledge. 
Applicant Signature 
Date 
(For office use only) 
Certificate of Insurance on File? 
Yes  No  
Is Insurance Site or Project Specific? 
Yes   No 
Insurance Expiration Date:    
Insurance reviewed by:    
Permit Fee:  $  
Permit Security Deposit:    $ 
(Attach fee calculation sheet, if applicable) 
Check 

Letter of Credit 
Credit Card   
Cash 

Performance Bond  C.D. 


Photocopy of payment/City receipt attached to this form? 
Yes No 
Refund of security deposit will be mailed to "Applicant" above, unless otherwise noted: 
Miscellaneous notes: 
Reviewed and approved by Public Works staff: 
Reviewed and approved by Building/Planning staff, if applicable: 
Name: 
Date: 
Name: 
Date: 
Q:\pw\PWENG\A_FORMS\ENCRHAPP.DOC 
Rev. 07/09 
14 of 84

--- page 15 ---
PERMIT COMPUTATION WORKSHEET5 - FY 2019-2020
Location: 
Reviewed by: 
Reference: 
Date: 
ITEM 
UNIT 
UNIT PRICE 
QUANTITY 
AMOUNT 
Asphalt concrete (AC) paving R & R 
SF 
$30.00 
$ 
Catch basin (F-3) 
EA 
$5,000.00 
$ 
Curb and gutter 
LF 
$65.00 
$ 
Debris Box/Temporary Container (3) (4)
EA 
$500.00 
$ 
Driveway approach - commercial 
EA 
$3,000.00 
$ 
Driveway approach - residential 
EA 
$1,500.00 
$ 
Manhole 
EA 
$5,000.00 
$ 
Scaffolding (drawing required) (3) (4)
EA 
$1,000.00 
$ 
Sewer cleanout 
EA 
$700.00 
$ 
Sewer lateral 
EA 
$1,950.00 
$ 
Sewer lateral and cleanout 
EA 
$2,500.00 
$ 
Sewer main 
LF 
$150.00 
$ 
Sidewalk R & R 
SF 
$22.00 
$ 
Sidewalk underdrain 
EA 
$250.00 
$ 
Storm drain 
LF 
$120.00 
$ 
Street lights (1) 
EA 
$4,000.00 
$ 
Street light conduit (1) (2)
LF 
$25.00 
$ 
Traffic control (3) (4) 
EA 
$1,000.00 
$ 
Wheelchair ramp 
EA 
$6,500.00 
$ 
Miscellaneous 
$ 
(a) Total public improvements 
$ 
(b) 50% of public improvements above for labor and materials 
$ 
(c) TOTAL SECURITY DEPOSIT (total a + b) 
refundable 
$ 
(d)  Encroachment permit fee $896.00 (a portion of fee for STOPPP)
$ 
896.00
TOTAL DUE (c + d) 
$ 
1 For installation of new streetlight, both of these items apply. 
2 Requires PG&E hook-up fee per service point. 
4Fee for this item is $381.00 
5Unit prices based on construction estimates as of 11/2017
3 These items exempt from (b) charges. 
15 of 84

--- page 16 ---
TRAFFIC CONTROL PLAN 
REQUIREMENTS 
Page 1 of 3 
Rev 10/17
OVERVIEW 
The purpose of a traffic control plan (TCP) is to allow the contractor to work within the public right of 
way efficiently and effectively while maintaining a safe, uniform flow of traffic. Both construction 
work and the public must be given equal consideration when developing a traffic control plan. In 
addition, when considering the public, attention must be given to all aspects of travel through the work 
zone: i.e., vehicular, bicycle, and pedestrian. All TCP’s shall be in accordance with the most recent 
edition of the California Manual on Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD).  
WHERE SITE-SPECIFIC TCP’s ARE REQUIRED: 
Site-specific TCP’s are required where any of the following criteria are met, and shall be prepared in 
accordance with the “Guidelines for Submittal of Site-Specific TCP’s” found in this document: 

Any roadway that is classified as a collector or arterial. Roadway classifications are defined in
the Circulation Element of the General Plan. A map of roadway classifications can be seen
here: http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/Home/View/7192 and is attached to
this document.

Any roadway (including local roadways) that requires full road closures or detours.

Any roadway with a speed limit over 25 mph.
The City reserves the right to require site-specific TCP’s where deemed necessary. 
WHERE SITE-SPECIFIC TCP’s ARE NOT REQUIRED: 
If a TCP is not required per the above criteria, a request can be submitted to allow a non-site-specific 
TCP. Where multiple locations are requested, all locations shall be shown and numbered on a map and 
listed in tabular format. For each requested location, the table shall include: 

Work site location: Street name and address, or street segment limits

Typical application of traffic control per the CA MUTCD

Working hours

Scheduled construction dates

All typical application diagrams referenced in the table shall be included with the request.
16 of 84

--- page 17 ---
Page 2 of 3 
Rev 10/17 
GUIDELINES FOR SUBMITTAL OF SITE-SPECIFIC TCP’s 
A TCP that does not include all of the required elements listed below will be found incomplete, and 
returned for revision and re-submittal. The following checklist is provided to assist Developers and 
Contractors in establishing uniformity in the development of TCP's. This checklist should be used as a 
guide to ensure that all of the basic elements are covered, and will help speed-up the plan review 
process.  
1.
The TCP is required to be site-specific. Photocopied sections of the CA MUTCD or any other
manual will not be accepted.
2.
The TCP shall be developed on 24” x 36”, 11” x 17”, or 8.5” x 11” sheets.
3.
Show a North arrow and scale or "NOT TO SCALE" (N.T.S.).
4.
The TCP shall be prepared using drafting standards.  If the TCP cannot be clearly understood, it
will be returned for revision and resubmittal.
5.
Indicate contractor(s) name, address, and telephone number. Include name and telephone number
of the 24-hour contact person representing the contractor.
6.
Show location and dimensions of the construction work zone.
7.
Show all streets within the area of work zone.  Show the following items in the area around the
work zone:

Indicate posted or prima facie speed limits.

All width dimensions of existing lane lines.

Indicate locations of construction signs (note signs by symbol and sign code), barricades, and
delineators (includes cones).

Label all taper lengths and widths, delineator spacing, and sign spacing. All taper lengths and
widths, delineator spacing, and sign spacing shall be per the CA MUTCD.

Use a legend to define all symbols and designate them with CA MUTCD nomenclature.

A minimum of eleven (11) foot travel lanes must be maintained.

Show all parking restriction zones and signs, as appropriate.

Creation of a pedestrian diversion plan is required if the sidewalk area is part of the construction
zone.

Creation of a bicycle diversion plan is required if the Class II or Class III bike lane areas are
part of the construction zone.

If construction work requires a detour, TCP must show a line map indicating detour route and
signs.
8.
All affected streets within the 500 ft radius of the work zone shall show the following:

Existing curb, gutter, and sidewalk, or edge of pavement.

Potential conflicts (bus stops, bike lanes, driveways, etc).

All crosswalks and traffic islands.

Indicate if intersection is signalized.

Illustrate lane configurations (i.e. protected left turns, free right turns, shared through and
turning lanes etc.) at intersections.
17 of 84

--- page 18 ---
Page 3 of 3 
Rev 10/17 
The City reserves the right to modify the submitted traffic control plan to better reflect traffic control 
on City streets.  If the changes are minor, the changes will be made on the submitted plan, which will 
then become part of the approved permit.  If the changes are significant, then the plan will be returned 
to the applicant for revision and resubmittal.   
Please note the following: 

All the traffic control plans shall be submitted for review a minimum of ten (10) business days
prior to the scheduled start date. Please note the typical review time may be extended if the
applicant is asked to revise and resubmit plans. The date and duration of the work shall be
included in the application.

Any work or traffic control sign/device placements within Caltrans right-of-way requires a
Caltrans encroachment permit.  The approved Caltrans encroachment permit must be included
in the City of San Mateo encroachment permit application. City of San Mateo encroachment
permits will not be approved where work or traffic control is required in Caltrans right-of-way
and an approved Caltrans encroachment permit is not included.

No lane closure is permitted before 9:00 a.m. or after 3:30 p.m. on any roadway that is classified
as an arterial or collector, unless approved otherwise.

Road closures will require minimum three (3) business day notice and must be approved by the
Department of Public Works, Traffic Engineering Division prior to closure. It should be noted
that the contractor(s) is responsible for notifying PD/FD County dispatch in advance of any
road closures.

Access to driveways shall be maintained at all times unless other arrangements are made, and
documented in writing.

The need for Flagger(s) or Reserve Police Officer(s) will be determined based on site
conditions. Flagger(s) shall be sufficiently trained and equipped in accordance with California
Code of Regulations, Title 8, Section 1599.  In addition, flaggers shall be certified by the
American Traffic Safety Services Association (ATSSA) or the National Safety Council (NSC).
The Director of Public Works reserves the right to require the use of Police Officers when
conditions warrant.

Any work that disturbs normal traffic signal operations shall be coordinated with the
Department of Public Works Traffic Engineering Division three (3) business day prior to the
start of work.

Any work proposing to impact parking space(s) will require temporary “No Parking” signs,
which shall be placed 72 hours prior to the start of work. If temporary “No Parking” signs are
not placed 72 hours prior to the start of work, the parking restriction is not enforceable.

Ensure that there are no contradictions on the proposed TCP.

No Open excavation shall be left unattended at any time.

Haul routes are only allowed on the City Approved Truck Route Map (dated 2008).  The map
is attached to this document for reference.

All work shall be planned and carried out so that there will be the least possible inconvenience
to the traveling public. Traffic shall not be unreasonably delayed.
18 of 84

--- page 19 ---
STREET CLASSIFICATION

19 of 84


--- page 20 ---
A

Oe re ren es os ey ee ee Sew ons ee Hh RS bw ee

July 2008 revised

=  Tresk Recess

() Corermercal Aree
CS) Marsters Ares
GE) Hewite! Areae
CE) Patrarweree

att

Truck Routes

i
i
i
i
t
|
i
i
i
|
i
i
|
|
'
!
!

20 of 84


--- page 21 ---
Rev 10/17 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS 
330 West 20th Avenue San Mateo, CA 94403 (650) 522-7300 
(650) 522-7301 fax 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01
12 07 covering CGL on an "occurrence" basis, including products-completed operations,
personal   & advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence.  If a
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to
this project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence
limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if
Contractor has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit
no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers' Compensation:  as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits,
and Employer's Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for
bodily injury or disease.
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as 
insureds on the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed 
by or on behalf of the Contractor; and on the COL policy with respect to liability arising out of 
work or operations performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts or 
equipment furnished in coru1ection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be 
provided in the form of an endorsement to the Contractor's insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form 
CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor's insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, 
or agents shall be excess of the Contractor's insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
21 of 84

--- page 22 ---
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except 
after thirty (30) days' prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation,  w h i c h  any insurer of 
said Contractor may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such 
insurance.    Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this 
waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a 
waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer. 
Deductibles and Self-lnsured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City 
may require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide 
proof of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses 
within the retention. 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best's rating of no less than A:VII, 
unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.   However, 
failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the 
Contractor's obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified 
copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, 
at any time. 
22 of 84

--- page 23 ---
SAMPLE ENDORSEMENT 
POLICY NUMBER:  XXXXXXXXX 
THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY, PLEASE 
READ IT CAREFULLY. 
ADDITIONAL INSURED- OWNERS, LESSEES OR CONTRACTORS 
(FORM B) 
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following: 
COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY 
COVERAGE PART 
SCHEDULE 
Name of Person or Organization: 
The City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees and agents are 
named as additional insured. 
23 of 84

--- page 24 ---
22. Temporary Storage Containers: If placed in streetthe public right-of-way, 
a)
requires a permit, Must submit an encroachment permit application, Certificate of Insurance, 
and a sketched site plan or map mark-up showing the container’s proposed location, 
permittee’s residence, adjacent driveways, proximity to street corners, container dimensions, 
and if applicable, fire hydrants, accessible curb ramps, bus stops, and colored curb markings;
b)
Mmust be placed in a legal parking space adjacent to the curb;
c)
Must be eight (8) feet or less in width;
d)
May be placed on residential streets only;
e)
Must be placed in front of permittee’s residence. If the space in front of permittee’s residence is 
insufficient or causes an obstruction, container may be placed at the next closest, appropriately 
sized on-street space and courtesy notification to the nearest property owner(s) or tenant(s) to 
the container is required. Container may not be stored on-street if there is sufficient space on 
private property;
f)
May be placed on streets with a marked centerline if a 10-foot travel lane is maintained;
g)
May be placed on streets with unmarked parking stalls and without a centerline if a 12-foot, 
clear path-of-travel for vehicles is maintained;
h)
May not be placed in front of driveways, bus stops, accessible curb ramps, fire hydrants, colored 
curb markings (i.e. blue, green, red, yellow, and white zones), pedestrian crosswalks (striped or 
unstriped), and where  cannot block site visibility is impaired for vehicles, bicyclists, and/or 
pedestrian traffic; 
i)
Must have reflectors at each corner;
j)
Must have a copy of the encroachment permit posted on the container;
k)
May be placed in the public right-of-wayonly for a maximum of seven (57) days;
l)
May not be placed in a manner that restricts access to a storm drain, utility box or hole, fire 
standpipe, or fire department connections (FDC) to existing buildings; 
m) Must comply with Chapter 3 of the 2019 California Fire Code; and
n)
Staff may restrict placement where the container adversely affects public peace and safety.
24 of 84

--- page 25 ---
17.08.020 Placing Certain Objects in the Public Right-of-Way 
Prohibited.
No person shall place or cause to be placed, anywhere upon any public way, right-of-way, street, or sidewalk, 
and no person owning, occupying, or having the control of any premises shall suffer to remain in front thereof, 
upon any sidewalk, in the public right-of-way, of the half of the street or way next to such premises any 
appliances, furniture, bench, inoperable vehicles, boats, machinery, foods, merchandise, implement box, debris 
box, mailbox, or other object, which shall be an obstruction for more than one hour at a time.
The foregoing shall not apply to:
(a) Goods or merchandise in actual course of receipt, delivery, or removal;
(b) Ornamental trees and planter boxes placed along the outer line of the sidewalk, behind the curbs under 
permit or direction of the Superintendent of Streets;
(c) Barriers for the protection of permitted ornamental trees;
(d) Poles erected under franchises obtained from the City or other authority;
(e) Hydrants or other objects erected by permission or direction of the City;
(f) Clocks or fountains erected for the accommodation of the public under permit or direction of the 
Superintendent of Streets;
(g) Debris boxes and materials used in the construction, repair, or demolition of any building; if such debris 
boxes and materials are permitted by the Superintendent of Streets under permit issued in the manner, and 
meeting the requirements and conditions of Sections 17.08.070, 17.08.080, and 17.08.090, including the 
posting of bonds and insurance meeting the City's minimum requirements. Such permit shall require the 
placement of necessary barricades and sufficient nighttime warning lights and/or reflectors;
(h) Garbage and rubbish containers conforming to the specifications of the City Engineer may be placed on 
sidewalks or gutters in direct proximity to the curb on scheduled garbage collection days between the hours of 
5:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. and during "Annual Cleanup" weeks in accordance with published annual cleanup 
regulations;
(i) Bus benches and passenger waiting shelters erected by a public transit agency that conform to State building 
standards and do not cause a pedestrian or vehicular hazard;
(j) Restaurant seating and associated means of delineating the physical extent of the seating area conforming to 
the standards set forth in Section 27.85.030 and under permit or direction of the Superintendent of Streets; and
(k) Sidewalk vendors; and.
(l) Storage containers placed in the public right-of-way for a maximum of seven days, unless such storage 
containers are permitted by the Director of Public Works or designee under permit issued in the manner, and 
meeting the requirements of Sections 17.08.070, 17.08.080, and 1708.090, including the posting of a deposit 
and insurance meeting the City’s minimum requirements.
25 of 84

--- page 26 ---
(Ord. No. 2019-8 § 6; Ord. No. 2013-8 § 4; Ord. No. 1994-24 § 2; Ord. No. 1987-17 § 2; 
Ord. No. 1982-31 § 1; Ord. No. 1978-13 § 2; Ord. No. 1975-28 § 1; prior code § 66.02.)
Cross References
Section 1.04.050(a)
26 of 84

--- page 27 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
File ID: 20-3754
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Kathy Kleinbaum
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Department
MEETING DATE:
November 12, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Leaf Blower Regulations
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an informational report regarding leaf blower regulation policy options and make a recommendation to City 
Council whether or not to consider an update to the City’s leaf blower regulations as a City Council priority during their 
upcoming goal setting session.
BACKGROUND:
At the September 2020 Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission meeting, members of the Commission requested that 
staff bring forward a report on possible leaf blower regulations. Regulating leaf blowers can help address their 
environmental and greenhouse gas emission reduction impact, as well as noise and air quality impacts. Recently, leaf 
blower equipment has gained more attention as many individuals are working from home and are therefore more affected 
by leaf blower noise. With the Bay Area region so impacted by California wildfire smoke, leaf blowers also exacerbate poor 
air quality conditions. This report provides an overview of leaf blower impacts and the City’s history with leaf blower 
regulations since this topic was extensively reviewed by City Council between 2011 and 2013. This report identifies leaf 
blower regulations and includes policy approaches for the Commission’s feedback and consideration. 
Leaf Blowers Overview
The California Air Resources Board (CARB) regulates leaf blowers as part of small off-road engines (SORE) category. SORE 
are defined as spark-ignition engines rated at or below 19 kilowatts, primarily used for lawn, garden, and other outdoor 
power equipment such as leaf blowers, lawn mowers, hedge trimmers, and chippers. SORE smog-forming emissions are 
significant; CARB estimates that one hour of commercial leaf blowing activity emits the same pollution as driving a 2017 
Toyota Camry for 1,100 miles. Even though SORE emissions are 40-80% cleaner since initial 1990 regulations, CARB also 
recognizes that smog-forming emissions from small engines now exceed those from passenger cars. CARB plans to adopt 
new emission standards for small engines by the end of this year. A June 2020 workshop indicated CARB is expected to 
require new sales of SORE be Zero Emission Equipment (ZEE) by 2028 and will be tightening exhaust standards to ease this 
transition. 
City History with Leaf Blower Regulations
The City of San Mateo currently has time of day restrictions for leaf blowers in residential areas. Municipal Code Section 
10.80 “Operation of Leaf Blowers” limits the use of leaf blowers to between 8:00 am - 5:00 pm on weekdays and between 
9:00 am - 5:00 pm on Saturdays. The use of leaf blowers is prohibited on Sundays and holidays. In addition, the code 
requires that leaf blowers run at low speeds and use nozzle extensions to minimize noise. These restrictions have been in 
place since 1997.
In 2011 through 2013, staff from the Community Development Department led the exploration of leaf blower regulations 
27 of 84

--- page 28 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
in response to community complaints. Staff brought forward reports to City Council on five separate occasions. The 
following is a summary of staff’s work that was presented to City Council:

Review of similar ordinances adopted by other municipalities and interviews held with their staff on how these 
ordinances have been enforced. 

Research on leaf blower exchange programs and discussions held with the Bay Area Air Quality Management 
District (BAAQMD) regarding starting a local option. The BAAQMD was not interested in developing such a 
program at the time. 

Research on health impacts and particulate matter emitted by leaf blowers and leaf vacuums. 

Two community/stakeholder workshops held in July 2012 and September 2012 to discuss policy options and 
potential impacts on both residents and landscaping companies.  

A demonstration of different battery-operated and gas-powered leaf blowers and leaf vacuums held in January 
2013 to determine relative noise and dust-generating impacts of different levels of noise certification. 

A study was conducted by the Parks and Landscape staff on increased labor time for City staff to maintain parks, 
community centers, and facilities without the use of leaf blowers. 

Analysis of the financial impact to the City from additional staffing and other needed expenditures for each 
alternative policy option developed.  
At a March 2013 City Council meeting, staff presented three options for updating the leaf blower ordinance: 
1)
Improve enforcement of current ordinance, 
2)
Implement a certification and enforcement program limiting leaf blowers that meet a 65 decibel (dB) threshold, 
and
3)
Implement a complete ban on leaf blowers. 
Ultimately, the City Council did not move forward to any of the three options. The City Council was not in favor of any of 
the options primarily because of concerns of the economic impact to commercial landscapers and challenges with 
enforcement. Many of the commercial landscapers in San Mateo are small businesses. A complete leaf blower ban would 
require landscapers to spend more time per job site, impacting the number of jobs they could complete and thus their 
revenues. Establishing a new decibel limit on leaf blowers would require many commercial landscapers to purchase new 
equipment, another financial burden to landscapers. If commercial landscapers passed on the cost of the new equipment 
or job time to their customers, concerns were raised regarding affordability for those with fixed incomes who rely on 
landscaping services. For all of the policy options, City Council was concerned about the financial commitment from the 
City to develop effective enforcement. 
The 2020 Climate Action Plan includes an Off-Road Equipment measure addressing “Clean fuel lawn and garden 
equipment.” This measure encourages the use of electric lawn and garden equipment in City landscaping and educational 
campaigns targeting residents and commercial landscapers. Efforts to encourage electric equipment include outreach and 
education and incentive programs. The Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) has a Lawn Mower Exchange 
Program that provides rebates for residents who turn in their working gasoline lawn mowers in exchange for funds toward 
the purchase of a new, cordless zero-emission electric lawn mower. This program is currently closed as funding is 
depleted. In 2018, staff brought forward a report to the Sustainability Commission summarizing various outreach and 
education efforts to encourage electric leaf blowers. Actions included conducting outreach to landscaping businesses and 
property owners on the benefits of electric options. The report also suggested exploring establishing an electric leaf 
blower rebate program. Staff has not made significant progress on these efforts due to competing priorities.
Gas Leaf Blowers vs. Electric Leaf Blowers
According to CARB, half of households have adopted electric leaf blowers but commercial landscapers have very low 
electric leaf blower adoption. Figure 1 shows the dramatic difference of electric lawn and garden equipment in personal 
households compared to commercial landscaping use in California. 
28 of 84

--- page 29 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Figure 1: SORE and ZEE Populations in CA
Source: California Air Resources Board June 9, 2020
According to a 2018 study by Arup, the use of electric leaf blower as opposed to gas leaf blowers would significantly 
reduce pollution and greenhouse gas emissions and perform better in terms of noise pollution. Arup’s report found that 
gas leaf blowers have a greater low frequency sound component compared to the electric alternative. The low frequency 
sound energy travels longer distances and more easily through home windows and glass doors, effectively making gas leaf 
blowers more audible and a greater noise nuisance than electric leaf blowers. Electric leaf blowers do vary in noise ratings. 
Conceivably, powerful electric leaf blowers can be as noisy as gas leaf blowers. Additionally, all blowers create “fugitive 
dust” as they kick up particulates that irritate people with asthma or respiratory illness. 
One of the primary concerns about electric leaf blowers include durability and battery life. Electric leaf blowers can be 
cord-powered or battery-powered. Both types of electric leaf blowers can be easily adapted for most household personal 
use but commercial landscapers must consider how long the equipment will last in the field. Cord-powered electric 
blowers are not viable on all types of property, limit the range of use, and are impractical for commercial landscapers. 
Battery-powered electric blowers require commercial landscapers to purchase multiple batteries, increasing the costs to 
landscapers. 
Consumer Reports found that handheld electric leaf blowers can be less expensive than handheld gas leaf blowers. 
Handheld leaf blowers are common for personal household use. Consumer Reports reported cost ranges for cord-powered 
electric leaf blowers between $30-$110, battery-powered electric leaf blowers between $150-300, and gas leaf blowers 
between $90-$220. Electric leaf blower technology has advanced in recent years and according to Popular Mechanics, leaf 
blowers are becoming more competitive with gas models in a personal household application. This aligns with CARB’s 
findings for household use of electric leaf blower equipment.
For commercial application, landscapers consider the speed and power of the air being produced from the equipment. It is 
more challenging for an electric model to compete with gas leaf blowers by these metrics. While the cord-powered electric 
leaf blowers can provide more power, they are still not practical for large areas and sites without power outlets. Electric 
backpack leaf blowers range between $300- $1,100 (price includes tool and one battery) and tend to be more expensive 
compared to the gas backpack leaf blowers that range between $350-$650. With the electric backpack leaf blower lasting 
roughly two hours before needing a charge, a landscaper would need to purchase additional batteries and chargers. 
Batteries cost between $200-$650 and chargers cost between $40-60. A commercial landscaper might potentially have to 
purchase multiple chargers for simultaneous charging. 
In 2018, City Parks and Recreation staff began piloting electric leaf blowing equipment at the Japanese Garden. Initially, 
the equipment was difficult to work because the equipment would quickly die, and staff had to troubleshoot with different 
equipment models and battery options. Parks staff now regularly use a backpack electric leaf blower at the Japanese 
Garden and report that the equipment can be used for up to two hours before needing to be recharged. While this works 
well for the Japanese Garden, a smaller site, using electric leaf blowers for all City landscaping operations would pose 
29 of 84

--- page 30 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
challenges due to the limited battery life. In addition, City staff have noted that the electric leaf blowers are less powerful 
and therefore take staff longer to accomplish the same work as compared to using gas leaf blowers. 
Policy Approaches
The City of Davis conducted a comprehensive review of leaf blower regulations as part of their analysis for their own leaf 
blower regulations in June 2020. Davis’ agenda reports along with staff’s own research helped in identify four main policy 
approaches to regulate leaf blowers:
1)
Noise and/or time of day restrictions,
2)
Temporary leaf blower ban days,
3)
Gas leaf blower ban, and
4)
Complete gas and electric leaf blower ban.
Attachment 1 includes a partial list of leaf blower policies in California cities.
Noise and/or time of day restrictions
Enacting noise and time of day restrictions is the most common approach employed by jurisdictions to manage the noise 
impacts of leaf blower equipment. While time of use and noise restrictions are effective in managing noise pollution, they 
do not address environmental impact or smog forming emissions. The City of Davis identified 87 jurisdictions that have 
these types of restrictions in place. Although the City of San Mateo currently has time of day restrictions and a nozzle 
extension requirement already in place, the City could explore establishing a schedule and zone system to manage leaf 
blowing activity, narrowing the time restrictions, and/or establishing decibel noise limits for leaf blowers. 
The City of Burlingame’s leaf blowing schedule and zone approach helps address noise pollution since it ensures that leaf 
blower activity only occurs on certain days in certain neighborhoods. The City of Burlingame adopted Leaf Blowing 
Regulations in 2012. Their ordinance requires the following:

Commercial blowers may be used on only ONE day per week, per area, with an extra day for R3 and R4 buildings 
on Fridays.

Residents may use their own blowers on Saturdays from 9:00 am to 2:00 pm and Sundays from 10:00 am to 2:00 
pm, as well as on their assigned weekday.
The City of Burlingame developed a map to delineate the different neighborhood zones and schedules. This policy 
approach addresses noise pollution establishing a schedule to reduce the number of days blowers may be used each 
neighborhood. Implementation of this ordinance relied on residents informing their gardening services of the operational 
requirements. Staff reached out to Burlingame staff to understand any issues with noncompliance and enforcement. 
Burlingame Code Enforcement staff indicated that over the past five years there have been 88 code enforcement cases. 
Burlingame staff said cases are most easily resolved with the property owner when informed of the regulations. 
Alternatively, some cities have narrower time restrictions than the City of San Mateo. For example, the Town of Atherton 
has a later leaf blower schedule for weekends: 10:00 am – 5:00 pm on Saturdays and 10:00 am – 3:00 pm on Sundays. This 
is likely because many feel that leaf blower noise a nuisance on weekend mornings. 
Finally, the City could consider establishing a decibel noise rating limit for leaf blowers used within City limits. The decibel 
scale measures the intensity of sound and is a logarithmic scale. If a sound is 60 decibels and you add 10 decibels, the 
sound will be ten times more intense. A whisper is about 30 dB and a normal conservation is 60 dB. Often cities use A-
weighted decibels (dBA), a metric used for judging loudness that corresponds with the hearing threshold for the human 
ear. For example, the City of Menlo Park has a 65 dBA noise limit and the City of Foster City has a 50- 70 dBA noise limit 
depending on the type of zoning. Depending on the decibel noise limit, a new restriction might require that a business 
purchase new equipment. 
Temporary leaf blower ban days
Temporary leaf blower bans address concerns related to unhealthy air quality but do not address concerns related to noise 
or emissions. For weeks, the Bay Area experienced very unhealthy air quality due to wildfires smoke and wildfire ash. Leaf 
30 of 84

--- page 31 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
blowers can contribute to poor air quality by blowing more particulates in the air. Some cities have opted to ban leaf 
blower activity depending on air quality. On October 2, 2020 the City of Davis adopted an emergency ordinance 
temporarily banning leaf blowers through October 31, 2020. The ordinance allows the Director of Public Works to suspend 
the temporary ban if the air quality index (AQI) values for the City of Davis are 100 or below for three consecutive days. 
The Director is also allowed to reinstate the ban if AQI exceeds 100 for one day. The City of Davis staff are researching a 
more permanent leaf blower policy.
The City of Menlo Park’s leaf blower regulations time of day restrictions include a provision that bans leaf blowers on 
“Spare the Air” days as declared by BAAQMD. The City of Menlo Park’s regulations have been in place since 1999. Menlo 
Park uses Next Door and social media to remind the community of the restrictions, however, Menlo Park staff did mention 
that this has been difficult to enforce.  
Discouraging leaf blower activity on “Spare the Air” days and unhealthy air quality days makes common sense, however, 
may be difficult to enforce. This would require commercial landscapers to check multiple websites to see if they can use 
leaf blowers on a given day. 
Gas leaf blower ban (allows electric leaf blower)
Banning gas leaf blowers helps reduce smog-forming emissions but only partially addresses the noise pollution aspect. 
Electric leaf blowers can be as loud as gas leaf blowers and will have similar impacts in terms of kicking up particles and 
creating fugitive dust. However, electric leaf blowers do not create engine-related fumes and thus can help mitigate air 
quality concerns. 
Twenty cities in California have adopted gas leaf blower bans. The City of Los Altos became the first jurisdiction in the Bay 
Area to institute a gas leaf blower ban in 1991. The Los Altos ordinance prohibits leaf blowers throughout the jurisdiction. 
In 2011, Los Altos considered modifying the ordinance to allow gas leaf blowers use on City-owned properties and in non-
residential areas. There was a lot of opposition to overturning the ban and ultimately the Los Altos City Council voted to 
keep the ban. In spite of this longstanding ban, residents complain that many ignore the regulation. In 2019, Los Altos 
Code Enforcement received 403 complaints regarding the use of gas leaf blowers and it remains an ongoing challenge. Los 
Altos is actively working on educational campaigns to encourage compliance.
On January 9, 2019, the Town of Portola Valley adopted an ordinance prohibiting the use of gas leaf blowers. Portola 
Valley went through an in-depth stakeholder engagement process prior to adoption. The gas leaf blower ban is scheduled 
to become effective January 2021. In addition, the Town established a trade-in program to support conversion to electric 
leaf blowers that launched January 2020. The Town of Portola Valley rebates 40% the cost of the electric leaf blower 
purchase up to $120 in exchange for the old gas-powered model. All Portola Valley residents and landscaping professionals 
with a Portola Valley business license are eligible for the program. Portola Valley staff reported three trade ins as of yet but 
the program had been on hold for the previous six months due to COVID-19.  
Complete gas and electric leaf blower ban
Five jurisdictions in California adopted ordinances to ban gas and electric leaf blowers altogether. An outright ban on all 
mechanized blowers is probably easiest to enforce since it is clear when a user is in violation, as opposed to distinguishing 
when a blower is in compliance with a decibel noise limit regulation or if it is gas or electric-powered. A complete ban on 
gas and electric leaf blowers addresses all concerns related to noise, emissions and air quality, however, an outright ban 
would have significant impacts to commercial landscapers and City operations. By banning all leaf blower use, residents 
and commercial landscapers would need to rely on manual methods (i.e., raking, sweeping). This would greatly increase 
the time it takes for commercial landscapers to complete jobs. 
In 2012, the City tested the length of time it took to complete landscaping work using leaf blowers versus brooms and 
rakes. The study was conducted in three city parks, the Japanese Garden and the Beresford parking lot. Table 1 
summarizes Parks’ findings. It took Parks staff double the time with brooms and rakes compared to using leaf blowers in 
the study areas. The sample sites that were studied represent only 8.8 acres; it is important to note that Parks maintains 
43 acres with leaf blowers. 
31 of 84

--- page 32 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Table 1: Leaf Blowing vs. Sweeping/Raking in City Parks
Source: November 5, 2012 City Council Administrative Report
Park
Leaf Blowers
Brooms/Rakes
Number of Staff
Beresford Parking Lot
5.5 hours
13.5 hours
3 staff
Central Park
19 hours
32 hours
6 staff
Japanese Garden
3 hours
8.5 hours
2 staff
Shoreview Park
2.5 hours
5 hours
2 staff
Sunnybrae Park
12 minutes
50 minutes
1 staff
As mentioned in an earlier section of this report, City Council debated this policy option in depth and decided not to move 
forward with a ban because of the impact to commercial landscapers. 
Next Steps
Potential leaf blower regulations would impact personal household leaf blower use, commercial landscaping businesses, 
and City operations. It is important to consider that each of the policy options have varying impact in terms of addressing 
leaf blower related noise pollution, air quality and greenhouse gas emission reduction. Re-evaluating leaf blower 
regulations would take a significant amount of staff resources to assess and implement, including the necessary robust 
outreach to both residents and commercial landscapers. Since this was an issue the City Council previously explored, staff 
would need further direction from City Council on whether to revisit potential regulations. If the Commission is interested 
in pursuing leaf blower regulations, staff will include this as an item for Council consideration and prioritization at the 
annual City Council goal setting session in January 2021.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Receiving this report does not result in fiscal impact. Adoption of leaf blower regulations would have a fiscal impact that 
would be evaluated at the time of consideration.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Receiving this report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Partial List of Leaf Blower Regulations
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7007
32 of 84

--- page 33 ---
Attachment 1: Partial list of leaf blower regulations in California
Noise and/or time of day restrictions 
Albany
Alhambra
Arcadia
Artesia
Burbank 
Burlingame
Calexio
Capitola
Cerritos
Corona Del Mar
Costa Mesa
Culver City
Cypress
Dana Point
Davis
Downey
El Segundo
Emeryville
Foster City
Fountain Valley
Gardena
Glendale
Hawaiian Gardens
Huntington Beach
Indio
Irvine
La Canada Flintridge
Lomita
Long Beach
Los Angeles
Manteca
Monrovia
Monterey Park
North Hempstead
Norwalk
Orinda
Palm Desert
Palos Verdes Estates
Pasadena
Redondo Beach
Richmond
Rohnert Park
Rolling Hills Estates
Sacramento
San Anselmo
San Diego
San Dimas
San Fernando
San Marino
Santa Clara
Santa Fe Springs
Saratoga
Sebastopol
Sierra Madre
Sonoma
St. Helena
Sunnyvale
Temporary leaf blower ban days
Davis
Menlo Park
Gas leaf blower ban (allows electric leaf blower)
Belvedere
Berkeley
Beverly Hills
Carmel
Claremont
Indian Wells
Lawndale
Los Altos
Los Gatos
Malibu 
Mill Valley
Newport Beach
Ojai
Palm Springs
Palo Alto
Portola Valley
Piedmont
Santa Barbara
Solana Beach
Tiburon
West Hollywood
Complete gas and electric leaf blower ban
Del Mar
Hermosa Beach
Laguna Beach
Manhattan Beach
Santa Monica
33 of 84

--- page 34 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
File ID: 20-3815
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Brad Underwood
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 12, 2020 
SUBJECT:
South Downtown Residential Parking Permit Program (RPPP) Zone Modification - Appeal of Director's Determination
RECOMMENDATION:
Conduct an appeal hearing of a Residential Parking Permit Program (RPPP) modification request, uphold the Director of 
Public Works' decision, and adopt a Statement of Decision and Findings.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo updated the Residential Parking Permit Program (RPPP) Policy and Procedures (RPPP Policy) in 
September 2019. The RPPP program is intended to mitigate the parking impact on residential streets from non-residential 
parking generators and to improve the availability of on-street parking for residents. Identification of a non-residential 
parking generator is required to implement an RPPP zone; per the RPPP Policy, “the parking generator may be a school, 
business, commercial district, or commercial use.” Housing, including multi-family housing, are not an identified non-
residential parking generator per the RPPP Policy. 
History of the South Downtown RPPP Zone
The South Downtown RPPP zone was initially implemented based on the identification of Downtown San Mateo as a non-
residential parking generator. The South Downtown RPPP zone included 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th Avenues between Laurel 
Avenue and South B Street, and portions of Laurel Avenue, Rosewood Drive, and Palm Avenue south of 9th Avenue. The 
City of San Mateo received a request in 2017 from Rosewood Drive and Laurel Avenue residents to expand the program 
area to include the portions of those streets that were not included in the program area at that time. In evaluating the 
expansion request, the City included 10th Avenue between Palm Avenue and South B Street as well as segments of Palm 
Avenue and Hayward Avenue based on analysis of potential parking overflow. After receiving a favorable response to the 
resident survey regarding the extended RPPP zone, the program was expanded from its original area to include the 
remaining portions of Laurel Avenue and Rosewood Drive, in addition to 10th Avenue and portions of Hayward Avenue and 
Palm Avenue. Because the existing zone already included portions of Laurel and Rosewood south of 9th Avenue and the 
same non-residential parking generator was identified in the expansion request, the additional areas were included in the 
South Downtown program area. All notifications to residents advised that the action being implemented was an expansion 
of the South Downtown zone to include the additional street segments.
Any person may park on-street within an RPPP zone for a period of up to two hours during restricted time periods, which 
for the South Downtown RPPP zone is between 8 am and 6 pm, Monday through Saturday.  Outside of restricted time 
periods, there are no restrictions on parking in an RPPP zone other than the Municipal Code restrictions that apply to all 
residential streets.
 
Application for Zone Modification
Once formed, an RPPP zone will remain for 10 years unless modified or removed by resident request. The RPPP Policy 
34 of 84

--- page 35 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
includes a process for zone modification or removal whereby residents may submit a petition to the City that describes the 
requested changes and rationale for those revisions. The modification process includes provisions for a mailed survey to 
residents to gauge support, and the issuance of a Director’s Determination regarding the request. Per the RPPP Policy, the 
applicant submitted an application and petition for zone modification during November 2019 to request the existing South 
Downtown RPPP zone be divided into two zones. The new, proposed zone would include only the portions of the South 
Downtown zone south of 9th Avenue (Laurel Avenue, Rosewood Drive, and 10th Avenue). The basis for the proposed RPPP 
zone modification is to divide zones by neighborhood as defined by land use zoning designations (e.g., single-family 
residential, multi-family residential), and the assertion that the applicant’s neighborhood character is different from the 
portion of the RPPP zone north of 9th Avenue.  The applicant identified Downtown San Mateo and resident vehicles from 
the north portion of the existing South Downtown RPPP zone as the parking generators for the proposed new RPPP zone.  
Denial of Application for Zone Modification
Staff reviewed the application for RPPP zone modification and the request to subdivide the South Downtown RPPP zone 
into two distinct zones. The request for a new RPPP zone does not meet the requirements for a zone modification 
because: (1) the downtown commercial district is the parking generator for both areas and (2) the housing located north of 
9th Avenue is not considered a parking generator under the RPPP Policy.  The residential housing located north of 
9th Avenue cannot be construed as impacting parking availability because parking in the public right of way belongs equally 
to all residents of the City and no one resident has greater rights of use than another to the public right of way as it relates 
to parking. Thus, the net effect of the requested proposed new zone is for one residential area to impose a two-hour time 
limit on vehicles from another residential area parked in the public right of way during restricted hours. RPPP parking 
restrictions are implemented to mitigate parking impact from non-residential parking generators.  Therefore, residents 
from one residential area cannot be restricted from parking in the public right of way in another residential area merely 
due to different housing types, zoning, or neighborhood characteristics.  
Based on these factors, the Public Works Director advised the applicant the application was denied on October 22, 2020.  
While a resident survey is included in the RPPP Policy procedure for evaluation of zone modification requests, the basis for 
the request was not valid based on the adopted policy. Accordingly, the mailed survey was not conducted and the staff 
analysis is based on the content of the application. A copy of the correspondence advising the applicant of the denial is 
attached to this Agenda Report.
Appeal of Denial
The RPPP Policy allows applicants to appeal staff decisions to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission.  The 
applicant submitted an appeal of the Director’s determination on October 29, 2020.  Similar to the original application, the 
appeal is based on the assertion that the applicant’s neighborhood is different than the neighborhood north of 9th Avenue, 
has different housing types, and is zoned differently. The City’s response to each point in the applicant’s appeal is 
summarized below. 

Division of RPPP Zones: The applicant states the streets designated as “Glazenwood” are different in character, 
zoning, and housing type from the portion of the South Downtown RPPP zone to the north, and the neighborhood 
should be identified as a separate zone for this reason. RPPP zones are implemented to mitigate parking impacts 
from non-residential parking generators. Designation of an RPPP zone for the express purpose of delineating 
housing types is not allowed under the adopted RPPP Policy.

Other RPPP Zone Designations: The applicant states other neighborhoods have similar, divided RPPP zones (e.g. 
Aragon High School, Borel, etc.). While the RPPP zones bear the name of the neighborhood, the RPPP zones were 
all established based on approved, non-residential parking generators, and do not fully encompass any particular 
neighborhood. For example, the Aragon High School RPPP zone is a portion of the similarly named Aragon 
neighborhood, and was created due to non-resident parking impacts from Aragon High School. 

Expansion of South Downtown RPPP Zone: The applicant states his street should not have been added to the 
existing South Downtown RPPP zone. At the time of the 2017 expansion request, the South Downtown RPPP zone 
extended onto both Laurel Avenue and Rosewood Drives to include several homes on each block; based on the 
existing boundary at that time staff recommended expansion of that zone to include the remainder of those 
blocks. Residents polled during this time responded favorably to being included in the expansion.  If an application 
35 of 84

--- page 36 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
to create a new or separate RPPP zone was submitted to exclude other residential parking from the neighborhood, 
the application would have been denied for the same reasons the current application was denied. 
Accordingly, staff recommends the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission uphold the Director's determination to 
deny the zone modification request. In the event the Commission upholds the Director’s determination, staff has attached 
a proposed Statement of Decision and Findings for adoption. If the Director’s determination is overturned, staff will return 
with a Statement of Decision and Findings for Commission review and adoption. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Conducting this appeal hearing does not have a budget impact.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This public hearing is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Residential Parking Permit Program Policy and Procedures
Att 2 – South Downtown RPPP Request for Zone Modification
Att 3 – South Downtown RPPP Modification Request – Director’s Determination
Att 4 – South Downtown RPPP Appeal of Director’s Determination
Att 5 – Proposed Statement of Decision and Findings
Att 6 – Public Comment
STAFF CONTACT
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
36 of 84

--- page 37 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Residential Parking Permit Program 
Policy and Procedures 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared by: 
 City of San Mateo 
Public Works Department 
Adopted September 2019 
37 of 84

--- page 38 ---
Updated August 2019 
2
Residential Parking Permit Program Policy 
 
PURPOSE 
The goal of the Residential Parking Permit Program (RPPP) is to allow residents to park on 
street in their neighborhood while restricting long‐term parking by non‐residents. Parking 
permits are issued to any licensed driver with a vehicle registered to an address within a 
permit parking area. The program is intended for use in single family and multi‐family 
neighborhood areas. 
 
Vehicles displaying a parking permit may park:  
 On the street for durations longer than posted restrictions 
 Along any street within the boundaries of the permit holder’s RPPP area 
 
Residential parking permits may not be used to park in: 
 Public parking lots or garages 
 Metered parking spaces 
 Parking spaces with colored curb markings 
 
Vehicles  displaying  RPPP  parking  permits  are  subject  to  all  other  parking  restrictions 
including street sweeping times and accessible parking spaces. A permit does not exempt 
a vehicle from SMMC 11.40.120(b)(1) and CVC 22651(k) which permit the removal of a 
vehicle from a city street or highway if parked or left standing upon the street or highway 
for more than seventy‐two (72) hours without significant movement. Any parking permit 
may be revoked if used contrary to the provision of this policy. 
 
 
PARKING PERMITS 
 
Residential Parking Permits 
RPPP  permits  allow  residents  to  park  on‐street  beyond  the  posted  time  restrictions. 
Permits are limited to one permit per licensed driver and are valid for two (2) calendar 
years.  Residential  parking  permits  are  issued  as  stickers  that  must  be  affixed  to  the 
applicant’s vehicle to be valid. 
 
Parking permits may be issued to: 
 Residents residing within a residential parking permit area 
 Residents living in a single‐family or multi‐family residence 
 Caregivers, provided the address of the resident receiving service is within a residential 
parking permit area (See “Additional Application Instructions”) 
 
 
38 of 84

--- page 39 ---
Updated August 2019 
3
Residents of multi‐family housing units with decoupled (unbundled) parking are not eligible 
for RPPP permits if a zone is located adjacent to their location.  
Residents adjacent to a residential parking permit area (e.g. a corner property with one 
frontage in a permit zone) may be eligible for permits if it is demonstrated the only on‐
street parking available to their property is part of a new RPPP zone.  
  
Eligible vehicles that may use a parking permit include: 
 Passenger non‐commercial and passenger commercial (i.e., SUV’s, small pick‐up trucks, 
etc.)  
 Company  cars  used  as  a  resident’s  primary  transportation  vehicle  (See  “Additional 
Application Instructions”) 
 Leased cars (See “Additional Application Instructions”) 
 Work‐type commercial vehicles displaying a commercial license plate that are actively 
performing work for a residence located within a permit parking area (See “Additional 
Application Instructions”) 
 
Vehicles that may NOT use a permit include: 
 Commercial trucks 
 Boat trailers 
 RV’s (camping trailers, motor homes, etc.) 
 Work‐type commercial vehicles, including taxis and limousines 
 Vehicles defined as oversized by the City’s Oversized Vehicle Parking ordinance (SMMC 
11.32.020) 
 
A residential parking permit does not guarantee or reserve a parking space for a permit 
holder. Parking is on a first‐come, first‐served basis. 
 
 
Visitor Parking Permits 
Visitor permits are issued to residents within the RPPP area for use by short‐term guests. 
They are intended to allow visitors to park on the street with the same parking rights as a 
resident  of  the  RPPP  area.  Visitor  permits  are  limited  to  one  (1)  visitor  permit  per 
household and are valid for the same two (2) calendar years as a residential parking permit. 
 
Visitor permits are: 
 Intended to be used by visitors or short‐term guests 
 Issued to residents who are eligible to obtain a residential parking permit 
 Hangtags that must be displayed from the rear‐view mirror to be valid 
 Transferable between vehicles that would be eligible to use a residential parking permit 
 
Note:  
o Lost or damaged visitor permits may be replaced at the discretion of City Staff.  
 
39 of 84

--- page 40 ---
Updated August 2019 
4
PARKING PERMIT APPLICATION 
Applicants must submit the following to be considered for a parking permit: 
 A completed application with the residents’ name and address. 
 A current driver’s license and DMV vehicle registration for each permit the applicant is 
requesting. 
 Proof of residency/ownership in the resident/owner’s name reflecting the address in a 
parking permit area, if the current address is not on the driver’s license and/or vehicle 
registration.  Acceptable proof of residency includes a utility bill, car insurance policy, 
lease agreement, or preprinted personal check with the resident’s name and address.  
 
Additional Application Instructions 
In addition to the above submittal requirements, applicants requesting a parking permit 
for a company car, leased car, or caregiver must submit additional documents. Specific 
application instructions are provided below for work‐type commercial vehicles.   
 
For a company car, applicant must: 
 Be a legal resident within a residential permit parking area. 
 Have a motor vehicle for his/her exclusive use and under his/her control where said 
motor vehicle is registered to his/her employer. 
 Provide  a  valid  employee  identification  card  or  other  proof  of  employment  that  is 
acceptable to the City. 
 
For a leased car, applicant must: 
 Be a legal resident within a residential permit parking area. 
 Have a motor vehicle registered to a vehicle‐leasing company and/or leased to the 
resident’s employer, providing said vehicle is for the resident’s exclusive use. 
 Provide proof of the lease agreement which is acceptable to the City. 
 
For  caregivers,  the  resident  (employer)  must  submit  an  application  on  behalf  of  the 
caregiver.  One  application  may  be  submitted  to  request  a  permit  for  the  resident’s 
personal vehicle(s) and the caregiver’s vehicle. The resident submitting the application 
must: 
 Be a legal resident within an RPPP zone. 
 Submit a completed application with the residents’ name and address. 
 Provide a current DMV vehicle registration for each vehicle for which the applicant is 
requesting a parking permit, including the caregiver’s vehicle. 
 Provide proof of residency/ownership in the resident’s/owner’s name reflecting the 
address in a parking permit area, if the current address is not on the driver’s license 
and/or  vehicle  registration.  Acceptable  proof  of  residency  includes  a  utility  bill,  car 
insurance policy, lease agreement, or preprinted personal check with the resident’s 
name and address. 
 Include a letter from the resident identifying the caregiver as a permit holder. 
 
40 of 84

--- page 41 ---
Updated August 2019 
5
Work‐type  commercial  vehicles  displaying  a  commercial  license  plate  that  are  actively 
performing work for a residence located within a permit parking area do not need a parking 
permit.  These  vehicles  may  park  on‐street  in  front  of  the  subject  property  without  a 
residential parking permit and will not be cited. 
 
FEES 
There is no charge for the issuance of any residential parking permits. 
 
 
APPLICATION RENEWAL 
The resident is responsible for acquiring a new permit by the first day of the new two‐year 
permit cycle year (January 1).  There is typically a 30‐day grace period at the beginning of 
the two‐year permit cycle during which parking enforcement will issue warnings.  No other 
grace period (i.e., new resident to area, new car, etc.) is available during the two‐year 
parking permit cycle. 
 
 
PERMIT PARKING AREA RENEWAL 
Once established, a residential parking permit program area will sunset after ten (10) years.  
Prior to sunset, the neighborhood’s interest in the RPPP shall be reconsidered through a 
City‐developed residential survey.  Based on the criteria in this document, if the majority 
of the property owners show interest in maintaining the current program, the RPPP will 
remain in place for another ten (10) years.  If less than a majority indicate interest in 
maintaining the program, a public hearing will be scheduled to consider removal of the 
RPPP.  Evaluation of the individual programs will be done in the final two years of the ten‐
year sun‐setting cycle.   
 
 
VIOLATIONS 
Any person selling, fraudulently using, reproducing, or mutilating a parking permit issued 
in conjunction with the residential parking permit program shall be guilty of an infraction 
and shall be subject to a citation for each offense and the forfeiture of all permits in 
conflict, or such other fine or penalty as the City Council may set by ordinance. The fine 
for violation of the Residential Parking Permit Program regulations is set within the City’s 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule.
 
 
 
 
41 of 84

--- page 42 ---
Updated August 2019 
6
REQUIREMENTS 
 
The following are required to implement a new RPPP zone or expansion of an existing 
zone:  
 
1.  Parking Generator Identification – A non‐residential parking generator must be 
identified that creates a parking overflow into the proposed residential parking permit 
area.    The  parking  generator  may  be  a  school,  business,  commercial  district  or 
commercial use.  The program is not intended for use in areas or on streets where 
there is a mix of commercial and residential use. 
 
2.  Determination of Parking Permit Program Zone – A parking utilization survey will 
be used to set the boundaries of the residential parking permit program zone.  The 
survey will be conducted between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., Tuesday through Thursday, 
and be on a day the community has identified as a typical problematic parking day.  
From  the  parking  survey,  a  map  will  be  generated  showing  the  level  of  on‐street 
parking.  Street segments will be identified showing >75% parking, between 65% ‐ 75% 
parking,  and  <60%  utilization  of  on‐street  parking  spaces.    Staff  will  use  this 
information to support the staff recommendation for the proposed program area.  
Street segments having <60% parking utilization will not be considered for inclusion in 
the parking permit zone.  Other factors may also be considered by staff including 
street topography and the potential for parking creep directly adjacent to a newly 
signed parking permit program area.   
 
3.  Community Support – There are a number of optional tools that can be used to 
generate  neighborhood  support  for  the  implementation  of  a  residential  parking 
permit program.  These include: 
 
 A neighborhood meeting 
 Circulation of a resident petition 
 Submittal of Homeowners’ Association letters of support 
 
These tools are optional and at the discretion of the applicant.  It is ultimately the 
responsibility  of  the  applicant  to  generate  sufficient  community  support  for  the 
proposed program area. Staff will work with the applicant to determine which options 
may be used to generate an adequate level of support. 
 
4.  Neighborhood  Survey  –  Staff  will  distribute  a  mailed  survey  to  all  households 
within the proposed program area. To be considered for approval, at least 50% of 
households  in  the  proposed  program  area  must  respond  to  the  survey.  Of  those 
responding, at least 67% must support the proposed program.  
 
 
42 of 84

--- page 43 ---
Updated August 2019 
7
Procedures 
 
PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT 
Residential parking permit program development must be consistent with all policies 
as  defined  above.    The  recommended  procedures  presented  below  provide  for 
consistent parking permit program development between program areas.  Staff has 
the flexibility to modify the following procedures when appropriate. 
 
1. A San Mateo resident submits a request for a new or expanded RPPP area to the 
Public Works Department. The application includes the requested streets to be 
included in the program area.  
 
2. Staff will meet with the applicant(s) to discuss and identify the day and time limits 
of the proposed program area.  Days and times of enforcement will be established 
to reflect the nature of the identified parking generator and to provide consistency 
and ease of enforcement by the San Mateo Police Department.  
 
3. (Optional)  The  applicant  may  request  a  neighborhood  meeting  to  present  the 
components  of  the  Residential  Parking  Permit  Program  to  the  requested 
neighborhood area. 
 
4. (Optional) The applicant may circulate a City provided petition to provide outreach 
to  the  community  or  to  demonstrate  support  for  the  implementation  of  the 
residential parking permit program.  Only one signature is needed per dwelling 
unit.  Each house, apartment, or condominium will be considered a dwelling unit.  
 
5. (Optional) 
The 
applicant 
may 
demonstrate 
the 
support 
of 
their 
Homeowners’/Neighborhood Association (if one exists) through the submittal of a 
letter of endorsement from that group.  That letter of support will be considered 
by staff during evaluation of the requested zone.   
 
6. Staff  will  prepare  a  survey  to  determine  resident  support  for  the  requested 
residential parking permit program area.  The survey will be mailed by the City to 
all  residents  in  the  proposed  RPPP  area.    Additional  street  segments  may  be 
included in the survey at staff’s discretion based on evaluation of further parking 
overflow and impact. 
 
7. Staff will evaluate findings from the mailed survey.  At least 50% of households in 
the proposed program area must respond to the survey. Of those responding, at 
least 67% must support the proposed program. If the survey results meet these 
requirements, parking occupancy analysis shows occupancy in excess of 60%, and 
the  parking  generator  identified  is  valid  per  this  policy,  staff  will  make  a 
43 of 84

--- page 44 ---
Updated August 2019 
8
recommendation to the Public Works Director to approve the program request. 
The Public Works Director will make the final determination based on those criteria 
for implementation of the requested program area. The decision of the Director is 
final unless appealed. 
 
8. Following  the  determination  from  the  Public  Works  Director,  staff  will  mail 
notification to the residents within the proposed program area to inform them of 
the results.  The letter will also notify them of the new requirements for on‐street 
parking within the parking permit program area if the program implementation 
has been recommended to proceed. 
 
9. Residents will have thirty (30) calendar days to appeal the decision of the Public 
Works  Director  following  mailing  of  the  notification  of  the  Director’s  decision.  
Submitted appeals shall: 
a. Be in writing 
b. Provide grounds for the appeal 
c. Identify  specific  actions  being  appealed  (parking  time  limits,  hours  of 
enforcement, zone boundaries, etc.) 
d. Include a recommended alternative action 
e. Provide a petition of surrounding residents in support of the appeal action  
 
Appeals will be heard by the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission at the 
next available meeting.   
 
10. If the request for permit parking is denied or terminated, a second study of the 
same or similar RPPP study area will not be conducted for a minimum of twelve 
(12)  months  unless  there  is  a  significant,  identifiable  change  in  parking 
characteristics as determined by the Public Works Director.  Subsequent studies of 
the  same  general  study  area  will  be  subject  to  the  same  requirements  and 
procedures as the initial study process. 
 
11. Parking permits are valid for two (2) years. Staff will send notification every other 
year to all residential parking permit holders for renewal of parking permits before 
the end of the calendar year.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44 of 84

--- page 45 ---
Updated August 2019 
9
PROGRAM REMOVAL OR MODIFICATION 
The process to remove or modify a residential parking permit program is similar to 
program  development.    The  procedures  presented  below  provide  for  consistent 
parking permit program revisions or removal. 
 
1. A RPPP area, or part thereof, may be modified or removed from the parking permit 
program by the Public Works Director following a successful petition and survey 
process from the affected street or neighborhood.  
 
2.  Once the petition for removal or modification is received by staff, a survey of the 
area is prepared and distributed to the neighborhood.  Similar to the program 
development process, 50% of the residents surveyed within the area requesting 
removal  from  the  RPPP/revision  of  the  program  must  respond,  and  of  those 
responding, 67% must support removal from the permit program or revision of the 
existing program. If these conditions are met, staff will recommend the action to 
the Public Works Director.   
 
3.  The  Public Works Director  will review  the  staff  recommendation  based  on the 
petition and survey results, and will make a determination regarding removal or 
modification of the permit area based on the criteria set forth above.  The affected 
neighborhood  is  notified  of  the  Director’s  determination.    The  action  of  the 
Director can be appealed to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission.  The 
appeal must be submitted within thirty (30) days of the Director’s determination.  
Information required as part of the appeal shall be as described for appeal of a new 
parking permit area request.   
 
4.  If  the  request  for  removal  or  modification  is  approved  by  the  Public  Works 
Director,  the  neighborhood  is  notified  of  the  decision,  and  the  RPPP  signs  are 
removed or modified following the thirty (30) day appeal period.  There shall be no 
cost to the residents associated with removing an area from the RPPP. 
 
5.  If an existing RPPP area is revoked, any request for reinstatement shall be subject 
to the same process as that of a new RPPP area, and if approved the neighborhood 
shall  be  assessed  the  total  cost  of  all  related  staff  activities  including  permit 
printing costs, distribution cost, and all sign installation costs.  
 
 
 
45 of 84

--- page 46 ---
Updated August 2019 
10
Residential Parking Permit Program Request Form 
The purpose of this form is to enable neighborhoods to request the initiation of a Residential Parking 
Permit Program in accordance with the City of San Mateo’s adopted Residential Parking Permit Program 
Policy and Procedures.  This form must be filled out in its entirety and submitted with any request to: 
 
City of San Mateo 
Public Works Department 
 
 
 
 
330 West 20th Street 
San Mateo, California 94403 
 
Feel free to attach additional sheets containing pictures, maps, or additional text if the space provided is 
insufficient.  
 
1.  Requesting Individual’s Contact Information 
 
Name:      ____________________________________________ 
Address:  ____________________________________________ 
Phone Number:  _______________________________________ 
Email (optional): _______________________________________ 
 
2.  Please describe the nature of the overflow parking problem in your neighborhood. What streets in 
your neighborhood do you feel are affected by overflow parking? :     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Can you identify a parking impact generator that is the cause of overflow parking in the 
neighborhood?  Are there any facilities (churches, schools, shopping centers, etc.) near this location 
that generate a high concentration of vehicle and pedestrian traffic?:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Please describe how a Residential Parking Permit Program will be able to eliminate or reduce 
overflow parking impacting the neighborhood:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Is there neighborhood support for submittal of this Residential Parking Permit Program 
application?  Have you contacted your HOA/Neighborhood Association?   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46 of 84

--- page 47 ---
Updated August 2019 
11
 
Neighborhood Petition Form for Residential Permit Parking 
City of San Mateo 
 
 
 
THE UNDERSIGNED BELOW AGREE TO THE FOLLOWING: 
 
1.  All persons signing this petition do hereby certify that they reside on the following street, which is 
being considered for 2‐hour residential permit parking:   
 
(Street Name)  
 
 
  
 
2.  All persons signing this petition do hereby agree that the following contact person(s) represent the 
neighborhood as facilitator(s) between the neighborhood residents and City of San Mateo staff in 
matters pertaining to this request:  
 
Name:  _________________________ Address: ___________________ Phone #: __________________  
Name:  _________________________ Address: ___________________ Phone #: __________________ 
Name:  _________________________ Address: ___________________ Phone #: __________________  
 
ONLY ONE SIGNATURE PER DWELLING UNIT 
 
Name (Please Print)  Address 
 
 
Phone Number 
 
Signature 
 
1.________________ 
_________________________  __________________  ___________________ 
2.________________ 
_________________________  __________________  ___________________ 
3.________________ 
_________________________  __________________  ___________________ 
4.________________ 
_________________________  __________________  ___________________ 
5.________________ 
_________________________  __________________  ___________________ 
6.________________ 
_________________________  __________________  ___________________ 
7.________________ 
_________________________  __________________  ___________________ 
8.________________ 
_________________________  __________________  ___________________ 
9.________________ 
_________________________  __________________  ___________________ 
10._______________ 
_________________________  __________________  ___________________ 
11._______________ 
_________________________  __________________  ___________________ 
12._______________ 
_________________________  __________________  ___________________ 
13._______________ 
_________________________  __________________  ___________________ 
14._______________ 
_________________________  __________________  ___________________ 
15._______________ 
_________________________  __________________  ___________________ 
16._______________ 
_________________________  __________________  ___________________ 
17._______________ 
_________________________  __________________  ___________________ 
18._______________ 
_________________________  __________________  ___________________ 
19._______________ 
_________________________  __________________  ___________________ 
20._______________ 
_________________________  __________________  ___________________ 
 
 
47 of 84

--- page 48 ---
November 21, 2019 
Brad Underwood 
Director of Public Works 
1949 Pacific Blvd 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Dear Mr. Underwood, 
Attached you will find our neighborhood's request for modification of the current South 
Downtown RPPP. 
We are requesting that the following streets south of 9th Avenue (Rosewood Drive, Laurel 
Avenue, Palm Avenue, and 10th Avenue) have their own RPPP as these streets form their own 
established neighborhood: Glazenwood. 
Included with this request are: 
1. Signed petitions from the residents on Laurel Avenue, Rosewood Drive, Palm Avenue, 
and 10th Avenue. 
2. Additional information that confirms Glazenwood is its own unique neighborhood. 
3. Individual letters of support from the residents. 
As you'll see, we have gathered signatures from nearly 80% of the 72 residents on Laurel (20 
residents), Rosewood (18 residents), 10th (11 residents), and Palm avenues (8 residents). 
This request falls precisely in line within the stated goal of the City of San Mateo's "Policy and 
Procedures" guide: to allow residents to park on streets in their neighborhood while restricting 
parking by nonresidents. 
Creating the Glazenwood RPPP will accomplish this goal. 
Sincerely, 
Doug D'Anna 
941 Laurel Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94401 
650-274-7326 
dougdanna@mac.com 
48 of 84

--- page 49 ---
Residential Parking Permit Program Request Form 
The purpose of this form is to enable neighborhoods to request the removal or modification of a Residential Parking 
Permit Program in accordance with the City of San Mateo's adopted Residential Parking Permit Program Policy and 
Procedures. This form must be filled out in its entirety and submitted with any request to: 
City of San Mateo 
Public Works Department 
330 West 20th Street 
San Mateo, California 94403 
Feel free to attach additional sheets containing pictures, maps, or additional text if the space provided is insufficient. 
SEE ADDITIONAL SHEET 
1. Requesting Individual's Contact Information 
Name: __ Doug D' Anna 
_ 
Address: _941 Laurel Avenue 
_ 
Phone Number: _650-274-7326 
_ 
Email(optional): 
dougdanna@mac.com 
2. Please describe the nature of the request (removal or modification of the program area).: 
We are requesting that Rosewood Drive, Laurel Avenue south of 9th, Palm Avenue south of 9th Avenue, and 10th 
Avenue in the current South Downtown Parking zone have its own unique RPPP. 
3. If modification, what changes are you requesting in the existing program area? Whatfarking generators 
(churches, schools, shopping centers, etc.) near this location are the basis for the reques for modification: 
The basis for this modification is two-fold: 
1. 
The Downtown Shopping District generator pushes cars into our neighborhood. 
2. 
Including Laurel, Rosewood, Palm, and 10th in the South Downtown RPPP has simply expanded the parking zone for 
residents living north of 9th Avenue {on North Laurel, 8th, 7th, and 6th streets). which has had the domino effect of 
continuing to clog our streets with nonresident vehicles that often block driveways or are left in the same spot for days 
BOTTOM LINE: In 2018 we petitioned for relief from parked cars that came from outside our neighborhood, instead we 
became expanded parking for the area north of 9th Avenue who are not residents of Glazenwood. We are seeking 
modification for that relief. 
4. 
Please describe how a modification or removal of the Residential Parking Permit Program will impact 
parking in the neighborhood: 
This modification will free up spaces for residents of the Glazenwood neighborhood to park on their own streets 
while keeping nonresidents from clogging our streets. 
This request falls precisely in line within the stated goal of the City of San Mateo's "Policy and Procedures" guide: 
to allow residents to park on streets in their neighborhood while restricting parking by nonresidents. 
The properties north of 9th Avenue are not a part of the Glazenwood neighborhood. See the attached map. 
S. Is there neighborhood support for submittal of this Residential Parking Permit Program removal or modification 
request? Have you contacted your HOA/Neighborhood Association? 
Yes. 80% of the residents of Laurel, Rosewood, Palm, and 10th have signed the petition asking for our own RPPP. 
49 of 84

--- page 50 ---
Residential Parking Permit Program Request 
Additional Information 
We, the residents of the Laurel Avenue, Rosewood Drive, Palm Avenue, and 10th Avenue maintain 
that the Glazenwood neighborhood should have its own RPPP for the following reasons: 
1. The goal of the RPPP, as per your policy, is clear: to allow 
residents to park on streets in their neighborhood while 
restricting parking by nonresidents. 
2. We maintain that we are our own unique neighborhood, 
separated by 9th Avenue, on which there is no two-hour 
parking except for one small stretch on the south side of 9th 
Avenue that is attached to the home on Rosewood. 
3. The properties north of 9th Avenue are zoned R-6D, for high- 
density apartments and condos. 
4. The properties south of 9th Avenue are zoned R-1C, for 
single-family residences. 
All you need to do is stand at the corners of Rosewood and 9th, Laurel and 9th, and Palm and Hayward to 
see that we are two distinct neighborhoods according to zoning and architecture, divided by 9th Avenue. 
More importantly, City's own subdivision map from the 1920s proves beyond doubt that Glazenwood is 
its own neighborhood. 
What's more, when the Glazenwood neighborhood was created 
in the 1920s, the streets were built to accommodate the single- 
family homes at that time -and not to accommodate the 
apartments and condos that were built north of 9th Avenue 
decades later. 
That includes the new building on 9th Avenue that does not have 
sufficient parking for two residents per unit, which will flood our 
neighborhood with an additional 20 to 30 cars owned by tenants 
and their guests. 
For these reasons, the Glazenwood neighborhood should have its 
own parking district that will allow our residents to park on our 
own streets. 
Again, this request falls precisely in line within the stated goal of 
the City of San Mateo's "Policy and Procedures" guide: to allow residents to park on streets in their 
neighborhood while restricting parking by nonresidents. 
Creating the Glazenwood RPPP will accomplish this goal. 
Sincerely, 
M~P 
GLAZENWOOD 
!'.,x )1xn:o 
CALIRJRNlA 
-~ .... -- -- 
-- - 
....... 
. 
-· . 
;i: '-'- 
"; 
0 
> 
...:::.:;:.--;::::-:_,,,._ 
~...::;~--- 
Doug D'Anna 
941 Laurel Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94401 
650-274-7326 
50 of 84

--- page 51 ---
Neighborhood Petition Form for Removal or Modification of 
Residential Permit Parking Program 
City of San Mateo 
THE UNDERSIGNED BELOW AGREE TO THE FOLLOWING: 
1. All persons signing this petition do hereby certify that they reside on the following street, which is being considered 
for removal or modification of existing 2-hour residential permit parking: 
Laurel Avenue 
(Street Name) 
2. All persons signing this petition do hereby agree that the following contact person(s) represent the neighborhood as 
facilitator(s) between the neighborhood residents and City of San Mateo staff in matters pertaining to this request: 
Name: _Doug D' Anna 
Address: 941 Laurel Avenue __ Phone#: 650-274-7326 
Name: 
Address: 
Phone#: 
_ 
Name: 
Address: 
Phone#: 
_ 
ONLY ONE SIGNATURE PER DWELLING UNIT 
# 
Name (Please Print) 
1 
D'A1.v,v,':\_ 
2 
3 
5 
6 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
\ 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
Address 
Phone Number 
Signature 
51 of 84

--- page 52 ---
Neighborhood Petition Form for Removal or Modification of 
Residential Permit Parking Program 
City of San Mateo 
THE UNDERSIGNED BELOW AGREE TO THE FOLLOWING: 
1. All persons signing this petition do hereby certify that they reside on the following street, which is being considered 
for removal or modification of existing 2-hour residential permit parking: 
Rosewood Drive 
(Street Name} 
2. All persons signing this petition do hereby agree that the following contact person(s) represent the neighborhood as 
facilitator(s} between the neighborhood residents and City of San Mateo staff in matters pertaining to this request: 
Name: _Doug D'Anna 
Address: 941 Laurel Avenue __ Phone#: 650-274-7326 
Name: 
Address: 
Phone#: 
_ 
Name: 
Address: 
Phone#: 
_ 
ONLY ONE SIGNATURE PER DWELLING UNIT 
# 
1 
3 
4 
5 
6 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
* MOJ'ik- ++"i:tiilG'vYldl fec\vfC~ n 10 b'cl- 
'r,1s t'el~rl't51Vi J'i'v\}(Y\ lQvy" 
52 of 84

--- page 53 ---
Neighborhood Petition Form for Removal or Modification of 
Residential Permit Parking Program 
City of San Mateo 
THE UNDERSIGNED BELOW AGREE TO THE FOLLOWING: 
1. All persons signing this petition do hereby certify that they reside on the following street, which is 
· being considered for r!O±Uo::?rVe 
~f existing 2-hour residential permit parking, 
(Street Name) 
2. All persons signing this petition do hereby agree that the following contact person{s) represent the 
neig~borhood as facilitator(s) between the neighborhood residents and City of San Mateo staff in 
matters pertaining to this request: 
Name: _Doug D' Anna 
Address: 941 laurel Avenue_ 
Phone#: 650-274-7326 
Name: 
Address: 
Phone#: 
_ 
Name: 
Address: 
Phone#: 
_ 
ONLY ONE SIGNATURE PER DWELLING UNIT 
# 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
Name (Please Print) 
Address 
Phone Number 
Signature 
8 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
/ 
53 of 84

--- page 54 ---
Neighborhood Petition Form for Removal or Modification of 
Residential Permit Parking Program 
City of San Mateo 
THE UNDERSIGNED BELOW AGREE TO THE FOLLOWING: 
1. All persons signing this petition do hereby certify that they reside on the following street, which is being considered 
for removal or modification of existing 2-hour residential permit parking: 
Palm Avenue 
(Street Name) 
2. All persons signing this petition do hereby agree that the following contact person(s) represent the neighborhood as 
facilitator(s) between the neighborhood residents and City of San Mateo staff in matters pertaining to this request: 
Name: _Doug D'Anna 
Address: 941 Laurel Avenue __ Phone#: 650-274-7326 
Name: --------~Address: 
Phone#: 
_ 
Name: 
Address: 
Phone#: 
_ 
ONLY ONE SIGNATURE PER DWELLING UNIT 
# 
Name (Please Print) 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
Address 
Phone Number 
54 of 84

--- page 55 ---
From:
Brad Underwood
To:
Doug D"Anna
Cc:
Drew Corbett; Rick Bonilla; Matthew Zucca; Sue-Ellen Atkinson; PW Email Chron
Subject:
RPPP Application - Divide South Downtown Zone
Date:
Thursday, October 22, 2020 8:52:52 PM
Attachments:
image001.png
image002.png
image003.png
image004.png
image005.png
image006.png
Mr. D’Anna,
 
Staff and I have reviewed your application to modify the South Downtown RPPP zone. You have
requested for your neighborhood, which is located south of 9th Avenue, to separate from the
existing South Downtown zone to form a new RPPP zone based on the assertion that your
neighborhood is different than the neighborhood north of 9th Avenue, has different housing types,
and is zoned differently. In addition, City streets are public right of way and not privately owned by
adjacent properties which allows for parking by the general public.
 
The intent of the RPPP program is to prevent vehicles from parking generators (e.g., commercial
areas, schools) from parking in residential neighborhoods. RPPP zones are created based on the
parking generator, not on individual neighborhood areas or housing type. The South Downtown
RPPP zone initially included portions of Laurel and Rosewood. In 2017, the neighborhood requested
an expansion of the zone to include the remainder of those roadways, and 10th Avenue and a
portion of Hayward Avenue opted in at that time as well. Given the zone included portions of Laurel
and Rosewood, the request resulted in an expansion of the existing South Downtown zone as it was
continuous.
 
The parking generator for the current South Downtown RPPP zone is Downtown San Mateo. The
parking generator identified in the request for zone modification is also Downtown San Mateo and if
the South Downtown RPPP were to be split, both zones would have the same parking generator. 
The only effect of splitting the zone would be to restrict residents from two immediately adjacent
residential areas from parking on City streets.  Accordingly, per the RPPP Policy, there is no valid
rationale for a separate RPPP zone to be created. 
 
Staff has conducted a field review of your neighborhood during the restricted parking hours and
found there to be sufficient on-street parking availability. This indicates the parking restrictions are
sufficient in your neighborhood, and modification of the zone is not necessary to increase parking
availability.
 
The application for modification of the South Downtown RPPP zone to separate the Glazenwood
neighborhood into a separate zone is denied. If you disagree with this determination, per the
adopted RPPP Policy and Procedures you may appeal this determination to the Sustainability and
Infrastructure Commission within thirty (30) days of this notification. The appeal must follow the
requirements set forth in the Policy and Procedures document.
 
55 of 84

--- page 56 ---
Regards,
 
Brad Underwood
 
 
In compliance with San Mateo County Health Officer’s orders, several City staff continue to work
remotely, expect some delay in responses. Questions about the coronavirus or the Health Orders
should be directed to the County’s 2-1-1 call center. For questions about City services, please call the
City’s main line at (650) 522-7000 or visit www.cityofsanmateo.org. For urgent matters about Public
Works, please call the main line at (650) 522-7300. 
 
Brad B. Underwood, P.E., L.S.
Director | Public Works
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
O: 650-522-7300
bunderwood@cityofsanmateo.org
 
 
 
 
 
 
56 of 84

--- page 57 ---
Doug  D’Anna 
941  Laurel  Avenue,  
San  Mateo,  CA  94401 
(650)  274-7326 
October  29,  2020  
Sustainability  &  Infrastructure  Commission 
San  Mateo  City  Hall 
330  West  20th  Avenue 
San  Mateo,  CA  94403 
Dear  Members  of  the  Commission: 
On  behalf  of  the  residents  of  Glazenwood,  I  am  writing  to  appeal  the  denial  of  the  Public  Works 
Department  to  divide  the  South  Downtown  parking  district  into  two  separate  districts:  South  Downtown 
(north  of  9 th   Avenue)  and  Glazenwood  (south  of  9 th   Avenue). 
My  appeal  is  based  on  the  stated  goal  of  San  Mateo’s  RPPP  that  is  listed  on  line  one  of  the  policy:  
PURPOSE:  The  goal  of  the  Residential  Parking  Permit  Program  (RPPP)  is  to  allow  residents  to 
park  on  streets  in  their  neighborhood  while  restricting  parking  by  nonresidents.  
The  fact  is,  we,  the  residents,  maintain  that  our  neighborhood,  Glazenwood,  is,  and  has  been,  its  own 
unique  neighborhood  since  it  was  built  in  the  1920s—and  is  not  a  part  of  South  Downtown.  
This  isn’t  just  me  saying  this.  
The  city  of  San  Mateo  says  this  too—identifying  the  homes  south  of  9 th Avenue,  Rosewood, 
Laurel,  and  10 th   Avenue  as  the  “Glazenwood  Historic  District”  on  its  own  Historic  Resources 
handout  that  was  updated  on  March  20,  2017,  calling  it  “The  residential  neighborhood  of 
Glazenwood  is  a  unique  early  1920s  development  of  Spanish  Colonial  Revival  homes.”  
As  such,  the  streets  were  built  to  accommodate  the  cars  from  single-family  homes  on  those  streets 
—and  not  built  to  accommodate  cars  from  other  neighborhoods  built  decades  later.  
I  have  included  the  official  map,  but  all  you  need  to  do  is  stand  at  the  corners  of  Rosewood  and  9 th , 
Laurel  and  9 th ,  and  Palm  and  Hayward  to  see  that  we  are  two  distinct  neighborhoods  according  to  zoning 
and  architecture—with  9 th   Avenue  being  the  border. 
Not  only  are  residences  north  of  9th  Avenue  not  Spanish  Colonial  Revival  homes,  but  that  area  is  zoned 
R1-6  for  high-density  apartments,  condos,  and  mixed-use  commercial  and  ends  at  9th  Avenue. 
Glazenwood  is  an  R1-C  historic  neighborhood  that  begins  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  9th  Avenue  border 
with  its  own  architectural  review  board  that  is  unique  to  our  neighborhood.  
57 of 84

--- page 58 ---
Ironically, Mr. Underwood, in paragraph two of his denial letter, admits that we are two neighborhoods, 
referring to the homes north of 9th Avenue as "the neighborhood adjacent to yours." 
However, in his denial he writes: 
"The intent of the RPPP program is to prevent vehicles from parking generators (e.g., 
commercial areas, schools) from parking in residential neighborhoods. RPPP zones are created 
based on the parking generator, not on individual neighborhood areas or housing type." 
If that "intent" were true, then that should have been stated in the purpose of the city's RPPP-"to 
prevent vehicles from parking generators ... from parking in residential neighborhoods," but it wasn't. 
The overarching purpose of the RPPP as written is crystal clear: The goal of the RPPP is to allow residents 
to park on streets in their neighborhood while restricting parking by nonresidents. 
Mr. Underwood's denial goes against the stated goal and purpose of the city of San Mateo's Residential 
Parking Program (RPPP). I stress the stated goal because that is what all the policies and procedures are 
built on and why this program was created in the first place: to allow residents to park on streets in their 
neighborhood while restricting parking by nonresidents. 
While our two neighborhoods may share the same parking generator, I simply can't stress this enough: 
We are two different neighborhoods-as 
designated in city maps, historic designation, zoning, 
architecture, and even Mr. Underwood's own denial letter. 
That is all we are asking for in our appeal: to designate the Glazenwood Historic District neighborhood its 
own neighborhood RPPP separate from the South Downtown RPPP district because it is truly a separate 
neighborhood no different than the Borel, Aragon, Bay Meadows, State, Mariners, Clearview and other 
neighborhoods which have their own RPPPs. 
By voting in our favor, you will be upholding the stated purpose of the RPPP: to allow residents to park 
on streets in their neighborhood while restricting parking by nonresidents. 
In closing, I want to thank you for your consideration of this unique situation, and I look forward to your 
positive response. 
Respectfully, 
P.S. ONE FINAL NOTE: 
I first spoke to the City Council on September 16, 2019 regarding dividing the South Downtown RPPP by 
neighborhood. When asked by Council how the zones are established, in response to my concern, the 
response by Sue-Ellen Atkinson of the Public Works Department was as follows: 
58 of 84

--- page 59 ---
“Typically  when  we  get  an  application  for  implementing  residential  permit  parking,  if  it's 
contiguous  to  an  existing  zone,  we  typically  expand  that  zone.  So  I  understand  the  point  that  the 
gentleman  made  regarding  his  zone  and  the  location  and  the  context  of  that.  If  it  is  not 
continuous,  then  it’s  a  new  zone.   If  it  is  an  extension  of  an  existing  zone—then  we  do  typically 
just  tend  to  expand.” 
Again,  this  idea  of  “expanding  a  zone”  because  it  is  contiguous  ignores  the  stated  overarching  purpose  of 
the  RPPP:  to  allow  residents  to  park  on  streets  in  their  neighborhood  while  restricting  parking  by 
nonresidents.  
Just  because  these  two  neighborhoods  share  a  border  is  no  reason  why  they  should  be  in  the  same 
RPPP.   During  the  meeting  Councilman  Bonilla  agreed,  commenting:  
“I  do  agree  with  Mr.  D’Anna’s  thinking,  that  his  neighborhood  is  significantly  different  from  the 
adjacent  one.  We  need  to  look  at  the  idea  that  just  because  it  is  contiguous  doesn’t  mean  it 
should  be  one  district.” 
During  that  meeting  Sue-Ellen  Atkinsone  of  the  Public  Works  Department  seems  to  have  opened  the 
door  to  this  consideration,  when  responding  to  Councilwoman  Freschette.  
“I  think  that  as  we  move  forward  in  the  program,  and  we  are  receiving  new  applications,  further 
defining  zones  is  something  that  we  need  to  look  more  closely  at.   Again,  I  would  hesitate  to 
define  them  as  a  housing  type  because  we  have  renters  and  homeowners  in  all  types  of 
housing… but  rather  than  consider  expanding  zones  because  it  is  adjacent  we  need  to  consider 
we  implement  a  new  zone  more  carefully  slightly  differently  than  we  have  done  before. ” 
This  appeal  is  your  opportunity  to: 
1.
reject  expanding  zones  just  because  they  are  adjacent,  
2.
define  the  Glazenwood  Historic  District  as  its  own  unique  neighborhood  that  qualifies  for  as  its 
own  neighborhood  RPPP,  and 
3.
return  to  the  original  purpose  of  the  RPPP:  to  allow  residents  to  park  on  streets  in  their 
neighborhood  while  restricting  parking  by  nonresidents.  
Again,  I  thank  you  for  considering  our  appeal  on  this  important  neighborhood  matter.  
59 of 84

--- page 60 ---
Residential Parking Permit Program Policy 
PURPOSE 
The goal of the Residential Parking Permit Program (RPPP) is to allow residents to park on 
street in their neighborhood while restricting long-term parking by non-residents. Parking 
permits are issued to any licensed driver with a vehicle registered to an address within a 
permit parking area. The program is intended for use in single family and multi-family 
neighborhood areas. 
Vehicles displaying a parking permit may park: 
• 
On the street for durations longer than posted restrictions 
• 
Along any street within the boundaries of the permit holder's RPPP area 
Residential parking permits may not be used to park in: 
• 
Public parking lots or garages 
• 
Metered parking spaces 
• 
Parking spaces with colored curb markings 
Vehicles displaying RPPP parking permits are subject to all other parking restrictions 
including street sweeping times and accessible parking spaces. A permit does not exempt 
a vehicle from SMMC 11.40.120(b)(l) and eve 22651(k) which permit the removal of a 
vehicle from a city street or highway if parked or left standing upon the street or highway 
for more than seventy-two {72) hours without significant movement. Any parking permit 
may be revoked if used contrary to the provision of this policy. 
PARKING PERMITS 
Residential Parking Permits 
RPPP permits allow residents to park on-street beyond the posted time restrictions. 
Permits are limited to one permit per licensed driver and are valid for two (2) calendar 
years. Residential parking permits are issued as stickers that must be affixed to the 
applicant's vehicle to be valid. 
Parking permits may be issued to: 
• 
Residents residing within a residential parking permit area 
• 
Residents living in a single-family or multi-family residence 
• 
Caregivers, provided the address of the resident receiving service is within a residential 
parking permit area (See "Additiona l Application Instructions") 
Updated August 2019 
2 
60 of 84

--- page 61 ---
J 
8 
PAt.M 
AY{. 
r 
44 
MAP 
o, 
GLAZENWO.□D 
1-~
.\:\ ~txn~o · 
CALJ
FORNlA 
f;.Y,1:,t3"\\~I>@ 
!l!MIU~'l' 
ll,•l~'{iSlH.<.f, 
H/1111, 
. ,. .. .. ... 
'1 
):: 
a: 
< 
,Q. 
"' 
" 
z: 
%!o 
" ~1 
~ j; l:t 
In~ 
~,( 
~ 
>-
,( 
![ 
'\ .... 
0 
,,1;,'4~~*~"!~-' 
_.,...,,,,_,->t~'h-
'(".t1...,_~~ 
----------------------------------------..:J_. 
61 of 84

--- page 62 ---
San Mateo Zoning Map 
As you can see from the zoning map, the South Downtown neighborhood north of 9th Avenue is 
zoned R6-D and Commercial, Cl-3R and C4-1.5. The historic Glazenwood district is zoned R-lC. 
62 of 84

--- page 63 ---
HISTORIC 
RESOURCES 
City of San Mateo Planning Division 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
This brochure provides an overview of the review 
and regulation of historic resources in the City of San 
Mateo, including the City's Historic Preservation 
Ordinance, the Zoning Code, and the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). It also describes 
the process for evaluating properties in the City for 
historic resource classification. 
The following 
summary 
information 
regarding 
Historic Resources in the City of San Mateo includes 
references to the City of San Mateo Zoning Code -
Historic Preservation Ordinance - Chapter 27.66. 
The entire 
Chapter can be found 
online at: 
http://geode.us/ codes/sanmateo/view. ph p ?topic= 
27-27 66&showAll=l&frames=off 
Historic Preservation Background 
The establishment of the City's Downtown at B 
Street and Third Avenue as a result of the arrival of 
the railroad is one key to the development character 
and history 
of the City. 
The second 
key is the 
establishment of estates and country homes in San 
Mateo during the 1800's and then the subdivision of 
those estates in the early 1900's. As a result of this 
early start in suburbanization, San Mateo has many 
historically significant buildings, structures, and 
landmark sites. Individual buildings of distinction 
are important to San Mateo's economy and quality 
of life . These structures contribute to neighborhood 
identity and cultural diversity and they add to the 
overall character of the City. Interest in preservation 
of these structures among City residents has grown 
over the last few years. 
San Mateo has a Historic Building Survey that 
ident ified 
roughly 
200 
historically 
significant 
Community Development Department 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
planning @cityofsanmateo.org 
Updated: March 20, 2017 
structures. 
Approximately 37 of these structures 
are individually eligible for the National Register of 
Historic Places. The Historic Building Survey was 
prepared in 1989, and is available online at: 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter 
/ 
View/47850 
Because of the large number of structures, the 
Survey 
focused 
primarily 
on 
the 
oldest 
neighborhoods, most of which are located east of El 
Camino Real. Survey efforts were concentrated in 
the traditional downtown area, particularly along B 
Street and Third Avenue, and the neighborhoods of 
Central, East San Mateo, Hayward Park, San Mateo 
Heights, and North Central. Other areas west of El 
Camino Real and south of Hayward Park through 
25th Avenue were visually surveyed only. One area 
of particular note not included in the Survey is the 
San Mateo Park residential neighborhood. 
The 
City currently 
has 
two 
identified 
historic 
districts, the Downtown Historic District and the 
Glazenwood Historic District. The Downtown area is 
of particular importance and interest with respect 
to historic structures. 
Overall, the Downtown 
maintains a 1930's character. 
The residential 
neighborhood of Glazenwood is a unique early 
1920's development of Spanish Colonial Revival 
homes. Other areas of the City contain buildings of 
exceptional architectural interest or reflect local 
historical periods. 
In addition to the historic building survey work done 
in 1989, there have been other historic evaluat ions 
performed 
on structures 
in the 
City. These 
evaluations are prepared 
in conjunction 
with 
q:\cdd\planning\forms\planning application forms-guides and counter handouts\counter handouts on various zoning code related 
topics\historic resources info handout.docx 
63 of 84

--- page 64 ---
CITY 
OP SAN MATEO 
HISTORIC BUILDING SURVEY 
PINAL REPORT 
SEPTBMBER 1989 
64 of 84

--- page 65 ---
character as a neighborhood of modest homes mostly dating between 
1906-1935. 
Glazenwood. One neighborhood within Hayward Park appears 
eligible for nomination as a National Register district. 
This is the 
Glazenwood area, which now occupies the land where Hayward's ill-
fated mansion stood. After Hayward's death, the house was expanded 
and converted into a luxury hotel. By 1920, the less than successful 
hotel burned and eventually the land was subdivided as a restricted 
residential park. Several features made Glazenwood unique. While 
the original subdivision of Hayward land conformed to a rigid grid 
system, Glazenwood boasted a u-shaped design with the two curved 
streets of Laurel and Rosewood. Titls was a popular plan, said to derive 
from the country lanes of England. (Land developers in Hillsborough, 
San Mateo Park, and parts of Burlingame also planned curved streets, 
in part as a way of distinguishing these areas from the more "urban" 
neighborhoods.) Glazenwood lots are somewhat larger than those in 
Hayward Park. But, perhaps most striking is the uniformity of house 
design: Spanish Colonial Revival predominates. 
Since the survey is 
proposing this neighborhood as a National Register District it merits 
further attention . 
'7 
The district includes a majority of houses on the west side of 
\ 
r:
sewood Drive, Laurel A venue, the 100 block of Hayward A venue 
and the east side of Palm Avenue between 9th and Hayward. These 
boundaries are based primarily on the visual coherence and age of the 
houses, but also on the historic boundaries originally drawn for the 
subdivision. 
Entrances to Glazenwood at Rosewood, Laurel and 
Hayward are marked by gateposts which harmonize with the Spanish I 
Ionia! Revival style architecture of the homes. 
--
Development of Glazenwood took place largely between 1922 
and 1925. Building permit records on file at the City indicated that the 
S.A. Born Building company was the primary owner and builder. The 
average construction costs were between $5,000 to $7,000; several were 
as high as $10,000 to $13,000. By 1928 the city directories listed the first 
residents; 
their occupations 
included manager, architect, broker, 
manufacturer, accountant, attorney and store president. 
One of the striking visual features of this neighborhood is the 
use of the Spanish Colonial Revival style for the majority of houses. 
Most architectural 
historians 
note that this style, and its many 
Mediterranean influenced variations, became a favored style for coastal 
California in the twenties. 
San Mateo appears to be no exception. 
Since San Mateo's population jumped from 5,989 to 13,444 during the 
32 
I 
} 
65 of 84

--- page 66 ---
1920s it is not surprising that many of San Mateo's older buildings were 
constructed in a style that was fashionable during that decade. The 
survey noted a predominance 
of this style in neighborhoods 
throughout San Mateo, particularly those established in the 1920s. 
Other large groups can be found on North Idaho and the numbered 
avenues farther south near 25th Avenue. Both Baywood Knolls and 
San Mateo Park include larger and more elaborate examples of this 
period revival style as well. 
In fact, if one architectural style were 
selected to characterize San Mateo's historic building stock, the most 
likely choice would be the Spanish Colonial Revival. 
In Glazenwood, there is a sense that the neighborhood stands for 
much that San Mateo wished to become in the 1920s. The move to 
suburbanize the Peninsula was well-established and local promoters 
saw only positive results coming from the development of the San 
Mateo-Burlingame-Hillsborough areas as part of a great urban complex 
whose center was San Francisco. Here in Glazenwood, home owners 
had distinctive and fashionable homes; the lots were a little larger than 
the average; it was a "restricted" residential park. Its residents were 
sophisticated, professional people. The disadvantages of living in the 
suburbs-urban sprawl, congested highways and gridlock, spiraling land 
and home costs-must have been totally unimaginable to the new 
residents of Glazenwood. Theirs was a time of prosperity, a time when 
all things seemed possible. Better forms of transportation were turning 
rural communities like San Mateo into bustling suburbs, which offered 
the best of both worlds: jobs in San Francisco and their own piece of the 
country, down the Peninsula. 
· 
Although more affordable housing opportunities were available 
in San Mateo through the 1920s, it seems that it was on the 
"Glazenwoods" that local boosters pinned their hopes and dreams. San 
Mateo was not an industrial 
center, nor truly an agricultural 
town_ 
Rather, it had become a residential community whose economy and 
self•image 
were based 
on its relationship 
to San Francisco. 
Glazenwood epitomizes the San Mateo's hopes during the 1920s, as it 
formed itself into a community of ''beautiful homes." 
2.8 East San Mateo & North Central 
Since East San Mateo and North Central share certain 
similarities in terms of historical development and remaining building 
stock, survey findings about these two areas are presented together. 
Maps of San Mateo indicate that for many years these areas were on the 
33 
66 of 84

--- page 67 ---
Supporting Letters from a 
Few of Our Residents 
67 of 84

--- page 68 ---
From: JOHN SAVAGE willsav39@gmail.com 
Subject: Letter of Support for Change of Parking Permits 
for Glazenwood 
Date: Sep 29, 2019 at a:23:35 AM 
To: dougdanna@mac.com 
Good morning, Doug 
I am responding to the email you sent to my wife on subject matter. 
Below is my letter that you can cut and paste and add to your 
presentation. 
To Whom it May Concern 
We fully support the proposal to implement a separate parking permit 
for the residents of Laurel and Rosewood avenues from that of the 
apartment dwelling north of 9th Avenue. 
Our streets are narrow. With cars parked on both sides, the passage is 
one way. Having cars that are not part of the specific neighborhood 
adding to the congestion is problematic. There are many times when 
apartment residents will leave their vehicles on our streets for days at a 
time. Parking enforcement is sporadic although, due to increased calls 
of complaint, such has improved lately. 
Glazenwood is a designated Heritage neighborhood. Because of that 
status, city requirements make it more difficult to make 
structural changes in our homes or gardening areas. We appreciate 
efforts to maintain the charm that is Glazenwood; limiting the use of our 
streets as a parking facility for individuals living elsewhere will help 
maintain that charm. 
68 of 84

--- page 69 ---
John and Paulette Savage 
925 Laurel Avenue 
650 344 2075 
69 of 84

--- page 70 ---
10/1/2019 
Alexis & David Morgenthaler 
953 Laurel Ave. 
San Mateo, CA 94401 
To Whom It May Concern : 
We are writing of our support for the parking and four-way stop proposals that our neighbor, 
Doug D' Anna, has laid out. These are important issues: we have consistently had problems with 
line of sight around parked cars at the intersection of 9th Ave and Laurel Ave. We are avid 
walkers and frequently utilize that route to enter and exit the neighborhood. There are many 
times while walking that we need to step out into the street in order to be seen by cars rushing 
down 9th Avenue. This is not safe, and we feel that a four-way stop would be a great addition to 
the busy corridor . 
As for the parking situation, we whole-heartedly agree that our neighborhood should be 
separated from the other two neighborhoods described in Doug's letter, rather than being 
grouped together as South Downtown. Laurel and Rosewood are already very narrow streets 
and can only accommodate one car in any direction at a time; it is often necessary to pull into 
an open spot along the curb to allow an oncoming vehicle to pass. As such, we are deeply 
concerned with the opening of the new high-density apartment complex north-west of 9th 
avenue and Palm, which has already begun to complicate parking on our already narrow 
streets. As an example, the area near the intersection of Laurel and 9th Aves are routinely 
packed with cars parked bumper to bumper on both sides. We've commonly seen people park 
there and walk out of Glazenwood towards other parts of the city-not 
all of these cars belong 
to our neighbors at that end of the street. 
We urge you to consider these proposals, as they impact our families' safety and usability of the 
area we call home. 
Alexis Morgenthaler & David Morgenthaler 
70 of 84

--- page 71 ---
From: Maria de la paz Guzman squeeky1@pacbell.net 
Subject: Parking support letters 
Date: Sep 29, 2019 at 10:34:36 PM 
To: dougdanna@mac.com 
September 30, 2019 
Department of Public Works 
San Mateo, CA 
To whom it may concern: 
Jammy Pate and Maria Guzman 
952 Laurel Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94401 
I write this letter today encouraging the Public Works Department to take into 
consideration our request as a neighborhood in downtown, San Mateo to have our 
own parking district in the Glazenwood area (Rosewood Street and Laurel Ave). This 
would be separate from the apartments located near El Camino Real/9th avenue. This 
would discourage overflow parking into our residential area. The next request would 
be to have a stop sign placed at 9th and Laurel Avenue. This is a very challenging 
area, not only to try to cross over while driving, but also to be able to walk across the 
street can be very challenging, even though there is a cross walk. Please help our 
neighborhood be safe again for our children and for those who have challenges to 
cross the street, without having to run. Thank you for your consideration. 
Sincerely, 
Jammy Pate and Maria Guzman 
71 of 84

--- page 72 ---
From: Caren D Amato mrscaren@att.net 
Subject: Parking issue 
Date: Sep 30, 2019 at 6:07:26 PM 
To: dougdanna@mac.com 
Hi Doug, 
I want to write a letter in support of preventing out neighborhood from 
becoming a glorified parking lot. Over the last few years our 
neighborhood has become bombarded by outside sources using our 
neighborhood as a parking complex. I'm writing to ask for your help in 
petitioning public works and the city council to separate this zone into 
three zones. 
1. North of 9th Avenue 
2. South of 9th Avenue 
3. Claremont 
I think it's important that we have our own parking district separate 
from the apartments north of 9th Avenue! I am fully in support of Doug 
and his initiative in keeping our neighborhood protected from all the 
outside traffic that has no residence in our area. 
Best, 
Caren D'Amato 
961 Laurel Avenue 
72 of 84

--- page 73 ---
From: 
C> ,, i 
.;,-. 
..,,1UOJ8C1.. 
Date: 
michael lim michael.lim@att.net 
Re: PARKING: Support Letters Requested 
Sep 30, 2019 at 4:25:59 PM 
To: Doug D'Anna dougdanna@mac,corri 
Doug, 
Thanks for chasing this. 
Michael 
To whom it may concern: 
I'm writing to you to express my concern about a couple issues impacting our neighborhood and to 
express support for two potential remedies. 
First of all, the parking situation on the 900 block of Laurel has become untenable at times. When there 
are cars parked on both sides of the street only one car is able to pass. Apart from this, I shudder to 
think about the safety implications for our children due to obstructed visibility. I'm in support of having a 
Glazenwood parking permit program. 
I'm also in support of a four way stop at the intersection of 9th and Laurel. Countless times vehicles have 
blown through the crosswalk while my family and I had already stepped into the crosswalk on our way to 
downtown. The number of times we've heard crashes and squealing tires in the attempt to avoid a crash 
is also countless. 
Thanks, 
Michael Lim 
920 Laurel Ave. 
_
San Mateo 
____ . 
73 of 84

--- page 74 ---
From: Dawn Kasten dawn.kasten@gmail.com 
Subject: South Central Parking and Stop Sign needed 
Date: Sep 29, 2019 at 10:10:03 PM 
To: Doug D'Anna dougdanna@me.com 
Hi Doug, 
Thank you so much for working on all of our behalf to petition the City 
Council and meet with Public Works to resolve a couple key issues 
impacting our neighborhood, Glazenwood. 
I just wanted to show my support for your efforts, so you can share that 
support with the appropriate individuals - and hopefully the Public 
Works team will agree that it makes sense to (a) separate the 
Glazenwood parking blocks, south of 9th, as separate and distinct from 
the more densely populated area north of 9th and (b) get a stop sign 
added on 9th and Laurel. 
Re the parking issue, it seems only fair that people on our 3 blocks 
(Rosewood, where I am, Laurel, and the small part of Hayward off Palm) 
should be able to park their cars in front of their houses - and that is 
getting increasingly difficult and will only get worse when the new apt 
building on 9th near El Camino opens. 
Regarding the stop sign, as the mom of a 9 year old who often bikes or 
walks with me to Central park or to downtown, the lack of a stop sign at 
9th and Laurel is a safety issue. Also, crossing 9th in a car from Laurel 
and 9th is almost impossible - I often have to 
11re-route
11 if I am going 
north or south on Laurel to or from downtown, which is sometimes 
inconvenient. But to me the safety issue is a bigger deal.. .. I heard there 
have been accidents at that intersection in the recent past. 
Again, thank you for your efforts to represent us, and please let the 
Public Works team know you have the full support of all of us in the 
neighborhood, and we would love to see these issues addressed asap. 
74 of 84

--- page 75 ---
Sincerely, 
Dawn and Glenn Kasten (and 9 y/o son, Aidan) 
980 Rosewood Drive 
San Mateo 
dawn.kasten@gmail.com 
Cell _(415) 716-0686 
75 of 84

--- page 76 ---
From: Bill F bill95383@gmail.com 
Subject: Re: PARKING: Support Letters Requested 
Date: Sep 29, 2019 at 9:45:13 AM 
To: Doug D'Anna dougdanna@mac.com 
Doug 
Thanks for all your efforts. 
The parking situation is by no means new to Laurel Avenue. We have been dealing 
with the hard to park and hard to get in and out of the driveway issues, for over 5 
years now. 
I agree that the construction on 9th Avenue, the business employees from downtown 
and many apartment house tenants from the 800 block of Laurel contribute . I also 
need to say that inconsiderate "neighbors " that park in front of other's homes rather 
than in front of their own contribute to driveway access problems . Parking 
enforcement may agree, that I have made contact with them more in the last 3 to 4 
years than I did for the 25 years that preceded . 
The STOP SIGN at Laurel and 9th Avenues would be a great add on. The safety at 
that intersection has been compromised with so much construction, and easy access 
to downtown. I cross 9th frequently walking, riding my bike or driving. Not one of 
those modes is easy to cross. The volume of cars is increasing, seemingly, daily. The 
cars heading south on Laurel treat the stop sign as optional, looking left for cars and 
not paying attention to pedestrians that may be in crossing lanes. 
I wish you the best in working with the City and hope this provides a little support! 
Bill Feeley 
958 Laurel 
650.464.0831 
I On Sat, Sep 28, 2019 at 9:22 AM Doug D'Anna 
76 of 84

--- page 77 ---
From: Richard Gonzales forgonz@icloud.com 
Subject: Parking permits, and stop sign on Laurel St & 9th ave 
Date: Sep 30, 2019 at 3:26:51 PM 
To: dougdanna@mac.com 
To whom it may concern, 
Parking on Laurel has gotten worst even with 2 hour parking. I believe our 
residential street should have its own parking designation such as in other towns 
like San Francisco, different neighborhoods have letter parking for each block. 
We should definitely not be part of the down town south which encompasses 
too large on area and groups our block with blocks of apartments. One 
gentleman told my wife he had three cars so he would park two on our block 
and move them around every three days. We all respect our neighbors parking 
because we believe as a residential neighborhood you should be able to park in 
front of your house. With all the building of multiple units under construction it 
can only get worst, so we need to act now. The corner of 9th & Laurel has 
become more dangerous especially during rush hour. It is very hard at that time 
to get across in a vehicle at that rush hour and even more dangerous as a 
pedestrian. Since I've lived here there have been a few pedestrians struck by 
vehicles and about three pretty serious car accidents, not to mention how many 
people cross here to go to park especially on music in the park on Thursdays. I 
would like to see a stop sign or crossing flashers on this corner to help with 
visibility, but stop sign would help vehicles cross as well as pedestrians 
especially during rush hour. 
Thank you 
Sent from my iPad 
77 of 84

--- page 78 ---
From: Takako Matsuyama takakomatsuyama @gmail.com 
Subject: Petition 
Date: October 1, 2019 at 4:40 PM 
To: dougdanna@mac.com 
My name is Takako Matsuyama. 
I live at 929 Laurel Ave., San Mateo. 
I strongly support the petitions going on around our neighborhood . 
1 is to separate the parking districts into 3 separate areas. 
There is always a car or cars parked in front of our house that we have to look for parking space and shuffle our cars around all the 
time. This is so frustrating. 
2, placing stop signs at the intersection of 9th Ave and Laurel. 
It's so scary to cross 9th Ave due to parked cars which makes it difficult to see. 
Thank you for taking these matters seriously. 
Sincerely, 
Takako matsuyama 
Sent from my iPhone 
78 of 84

--- page 79 ---
Nancy Jochims 
October 2, 2019 
I arn .vriting today tc support the add.rt.ion of a, SfOP sign en 9th A •enue at Laurel 5tr€J:t. 
Hu:. inter~ction 
ha,; a>,vayS been ,._,.a,ngerot.J:. 
sndcne to avi.:110 
due to the la,c:k ct v1s1billt'y. 
Rec.entt>'· hov..,ever. due to inc.1-ea:.ing traihc. volume a.t c.cmmute times ., the intersec.h:1n i:. 
frequently 
blo..:kedwith 
stopped cars in ooth directiom; on 9th, due tc the tr aft;;: signal at B 
Street ana the train crossing traff .c. a oo the traffic. light at El Camino Real. Cro,.-s traff ic on 
Laurel cunng tho::.e times is nearly impassible. Drivers de notgn.ie any right ot wa:y to aos-s 
traffte. 
A. STOP S~fin would solve two problero:., ( 1 ~ les:.en the danger of accid-ents because \\'e 
,vould have a four-way stop , anc (2) allo-.v cross. traff .c o-n Laurel durir,g times ot hea\!'y 
rn m mute tr affu:. 
1 ~l:.o support the des.ignation ot the Gla.zert.\lood neighbarhocd 
as its own parking 
r:: rs.tric.t. We ha\,e an aburf::!anc.e of cars tra-m ether 
:::,.vntowfl areat. parking.on Laurel and 
Rose~\'OC>C Drive , leav,ng their can, 1n front cf ;.1-ur house:. sometimes for 
ays. Wf!!. also 
ri.we a problem with -drrvers parking with SOUTH DOWNTOWN hang tags and gettin into 
ubers httacfod to the airport. le~ •ir,g their c.ar:. tor :.0metimes a-.veekata time. 
Nanc: • Joch 1ms, 
79 of 84

--- page 80 ---
October 1, 2019 
To Whom It May Concern: 
RE: Parking in Glazenwood Neighborhood of San Mateo 
I am a homeowner who lives on Laurel Avenue, San Mateo between 9th Avenue and Hayward. We voted 
a couple of years ago to limit the parking to 2 hour time slots on the Laurel and Rosewood Streets in San 
Mateo in hopes to limit the "all day" parking from downtown San Mateo, north of 9th Avenue and other 
areas such as Claremont Street. 
In fact, the parking has been limited even further since the change. People are using permits coming 
from downtown north of 9th Avenue and as far away as the Claremont area and parking in the two hour 
time zone for 3+ days including overnight. 
We would hope to keep our neighborhood as special as it is and would love the opportunity to park on 
our own streets without having to compete with commuters from the downtown area parking all day in 
the neighborhood. 
Thank you for your time and consideration. 
Sincerely, 
Paula Gilmartin 
932 Laurel Ave. 
San Mateo, CA 94401 
80 of 84

--- page 81 ---
STATEMENT OF DECISION AND FINDINGS OF THE
SUSTAINABILITY AND INFRASTRUCTURE COMMISSION
 OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
IN THE MATTER OF THE APPEAL OF DIRECTOR’S DECISION 
REGARDING SOUTH DOWNTOWN RPPP ZONE DIVISION
Recitals
1.
On November 21, 2019, Doug D’Anna submitted a request for modification of the South 
Downtown Residential Parking Permit Program (RPPP) zone. The application requested 
subdivision of the existing South Downtown RPPP zone to result in a new zone 
comprised of streets located south of 9th Avenue on the basis of difference in 
neighborhood characteristics including housing types and zoning. 
2.
On October 22, 2020, Public Works Director Underwood issued a Director’s 
Determination on the modification request, and notified Mr. D’Anna the request was 
denied on the basis it did not meet the intent of the RPPP Policy and Procedures. The 
RPPP Policy and Procedures requires a non-residential parking generator to implement 
an RPPP zone, and neighborhood zoning and resident vehicles do not qualify as valid 
non-residential parking generators. 
3.
On October 29, 2020, Mr. D’Anna appealed this determination in the manner provided 
in the RPPP Policy and Procedures. 
4.
On November 12, 2020, the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission of the City of 
San Mateo conducted a hearing on the appeal at which both the Public Works 
Department and Mr. D’Anna presented documentary evidence and statements.  
5.
The Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission deliberated upon the evidence and 
arguments presented and rendered its decision on the appeal.
Decision of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
Based upon the evidence and arguments submitted in this matter, the Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commission of the City of San Mateo upholds the Director’s Determination to 
deny the request for RPPP zone modification.
Findings of the Board in Support of its Decision
In reaching its decision the Commission makes the following findings:
1.
Mr. D’Anna has stated his request is based on the RPPP Policy and Procedures purpose: 
“The goal of the Residential Parking Permit Program (RPPP) is to allow residents to park 
on streets in their neighborhood while restricting parking by nonresidents.” The 
program is intended to mitigate non-residential parking generated by entities such as 
81 of 84

--- page 82 ---
schools, businesses, and commercial districts. The program is not intended to restrict 
parking by residents on public streets.
2.
RPPP parking restrictions are established to increase the availability of parking for 
residents. Staff conducted a parking occupancy study of the streets in question, and 
found ample on-street parking available during program enforcement hours. No 
modification of the program is indicated to provide parking availability. 
3.
The appeal asserts the streets located south of 9th Avenue are of a different character 
and zoning type than those located north of 9th Avenue, and as such should be divided 
into a new RPPP zone. Designation of an RPPP zone for the express purpose of 
delineating housing types is not the intent of the program and is not legal.
4.
The program establishes zones based on parking generator. The parking generator for 
both proposed zones is Downtown San Mateo. There is no purpose in dividing the zones 
other than to restrict the parking of other San Mateo residents.
Dated:____________
_________________________________________
Susan Rowinski
Chair
City of San Mateo 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
82 of 84

--- page 83 ---
From: 
  
Sent: Saturday, October 31, 2020 11:30 AM 
To: Nicolette Chan <nchan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: Commission Meeting Public Comments 
 
Nikki 
 
This note is in response to Doug D'anna appeals for RPPP in 
Glazingwood. 
 
Please do not use my name as I may be alone in this opinion and 
the neighborhood comments can be vicious. 
 
For several years a lady and partner ran a Car Detailing program 
from 951 Laurel, Those two had on a daily basis 8-to 14 cars 
parked on Rosewood, Laurel, Palm and 10th Avenues. 
 
At that time parking was a mess, and everyone complained. 
 
Since that time, parking has been fine at my end of the street 
with a few exceptions; 
• 941 Laurel has more cars than drivers and uses visitors 
stickers often, for their own cars 
• 947(?)  The Duplex. has 5 cars and 2 drivers. Three cars are 
in front of their house for days and days at a time 
• 951 Laurel has a car parked for days or weeks at a time, 
adjacent to their driveway 
 
I would ask that the City Parking group, on consecutive days, do 
a drive by. I do not ask for chalking or tickets. Just make notes 
as to what vehicles either; 
83 of 84

--- page 84 ---
• Do not move, or 
• Post visitor stickers for days at a time, that are registered to 
Laurel Aveneue homes. 
If the tires get chalked the cars will be moved for a day, as they 
do play the game. 
 
Clear up the problem of RPPP abuse and the parking problems 
go away! 
 
 
Thanks 
 
 
84 of 84