Congressional Hearing Adds Fuel to Flock Fire – EPIC – Electronic Privacy Information Center Join EPIC’s fight to STOP THE SURVEILLANCE STATE. epic.org/stop-the-surveillance-state Dismiss message. EPIC - Electronic Privacy Information Center Search Menu Search Issues AI & Human Rights AI in Law Enforcement AI Policy Chatbots Commercial AI Use Gov't AI Use Risk Assessments Screening & Scoring Consumer Privacy Communications Privacy Competition and Privacy Data Brokers Data Minimization Online Advertising & Tracking Robocalls Social Media Privacy Surveillance Pricing Cybersecurity Data Security Encryption Election Security Presidential Directives Data Protection Children's Privacy Government Records & Privacy Health & Reproductive Privacy International Privacy Location Tracking Student Privacy Worker Privacy Democracy & Free Speech Access to Information Anonymity Census Privacy Donor Privacy FIghting Federal Data Abuses Privacy & Racial Justice Voter Privacy Open Government Government Databases Freedom of Information Act Federal Advisory Committee Act Privacy Impact Assessments Platform Accountability & Governance Age Assurance Laws & Regulations Online Harassment Section 230 The First Amendment Web Scraping Privacy Laws Article III Standing Enforcement of Privacy Laws Fourth Amendment International Privacy Laws Proposed U.S. Legislation State Privacy Laws U.S. Privacy Laws Surveillance Oversight FISA Section 702 Face Surveillance & Biometrics Drones & Aerial Surveillance Traveler Screening & Border Surveillance Privacy in Public Intelligence Surveillance PATRIOT Act Wiretapping Our Work Updates Analysis EPIC Alert Events EPIC Publications Digital Library Media EPIC in the News Press Kit Press Releases About About Us Ways to Support EPIC Board & Staff EPIC Advisory Board Careers & Internships Being a Non-profit Cy Pres Awards Privacy Policy Contact Us DONATE Search Search Updates Congressional Hearing Adds Fuel to Flock Fire September 24, 2026 On Wednesday, the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Crime and Counterterrorism held a hearing on Flock’s Nationwide AI Surveillance Network. Flock Safety’s automated license plate readers (ALPR) take still photos, video recordings, audio capture, and livestreaming capabilities. EPIC commends the committee for gathering a strong panel of experts to shed light on the unchecked mass surveillance system being sold to law enforcement. Privacy experts from the Institute for Justice and the ACLU highlighted the way that Flock, and its competitors Axon and Motorola, go beyond mere cameras that read license plates. Flock’s vehicle fingerprinting algorithm uses computer vision to catalogue make, model, color, license plate, and unique features such as bumper stickers and bike racks. Beyond the vehicle though, Flock’s Condor suite can explicitly zoom in on human figures and track them across the frame. This granular cataloguing of every person and vehicle that cross a Flock camera is supercharged by the database created, with each image and meta data noting time stamp and location. This database can then be shared with other law enforcement agencies to create an immense pool of Americans’ whereabouts. The hearing featured an Arizona Sheriff who was among the first to cancel a city’s Flock contract. Several cities have since cancelled contracts with Flock, citing misuse , accuracy issues, and Fourth Amendment violations. In particular, the Sheriff noted that its law enforcement’s duty to proactively analyze its investigation techniques and not wait until the Supreme Court decides whether or not a particular practice violates the Fourth Amendment. The hearing also featured a woman who was imprisoned after her vehicle was falsely flagged by Flock in a car crash investigation. Law enforcement officials ignored compelling evidence once Flock flagged her, such as the fact that the woman’s car did not have any damage that would indicate a car crash occurred. Finally, a cybersecurity expert discussed the extensive cybersecurity flaws in the Flock system, such as buttons directly on the camera that allow access to footage, passwords, and other troves of data. EPIC has long opposed the unchecked expansion of ALPRs and recently filed an amicus brief arguing that Flock’s warrantless dragnet mass surveillance is unconstitutional. EPIC has supported various legislative efforts to push back against automatic license plate readers. Support Our Work EPIC's work is funded by the support of individuals like you, who allow us to continue to protect privacy, open government, and democratic values in the information age. Donate Epic.org | Electronic Privacy Information Center Facebook Bluesky LinkedIn 1519 New Hampshire Avenue NW Washington, DC 20036 Phone number: 202.483.1140 | info@epic.org Issues AI & Human Rights Consumer Privacy Cybersecurity Data Protection Democracy & Free Speech Open Government Platform Accountability & Governance Privacy Laws Surveillance Oversight Our Work Updates Analysis EPIC Alert Events EPIC Publications Digital Library Media EPIC in the News Press Kit Press Releases About EPIC Projects Board & Staff EPIC Advisory Board Careers & Internships Being a Non-profit Cy Pres Awards Privacy Policy Contact Us DONATE © Copyright 1994 - 2026 EPIC, all rights reserved.