--- page 1 ---
Updates
Congressional Hearing Adds Fuel to Flock Fire
September 24, 2026
On Wednesday, the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Crime and Counterterrorism held a hearing on Flock’s
Nationwide AI Surveillance Network. Flock Safety’s automated license plate readers (ALPR) take still photos, video
recordings, audio capture, and livestreaming capabilities. EPIC commends the committee for gathering a strong panel of
experts to shed light on the unchecked mass surveillance system being sold to law enforcement.
Privacy experts from the Institute for Justice and the ACLU highlighted the way that Flock, and its competitors Axon and
Motorola, go beyond mere cameras that read license plates. Flock’s vehicle fingerprinting algorithm uses computer vision to
catalogue make, model, color, license plate, and unique features such as bumper stickers and bike racks. Beyond the
vehicle though, Flock’s Condor suite can explicitly zoom in on human figures and track them across the frame. This
granular cataloguing of every person and vehicle that cross a Flock camera is supercharged by the database created, with
each image and meta data noting time stamp and location. This database can then be shared with other law enforcement
agencies to create an immense pool of Americans’ whereabouts.
The hearing featured an Arizona Sheriff who was among the first to cancel a city’s Flock contract. Several cities have since
cancelled contracts with Flock, citing misuse, accuracy issues, and Fourth Amendment violations. In particular, the Sheriff
noted that its law enforcement’s duty to proactively analyze its investigation techniques and not wait until the Supreme
Court decides whether or not a particular practice violates the Fourth Amendment.
The hearing also featured a woman who was imprisoned after her vehicle was falsely flagged by Flock in a car crash
investigation. Law enforcement officials ignored compelling evidence once Flock flagged her, such as the fact that the
woman’s car did not have any damage that would indicate a car crash occurred.
Join EPIC’s fight to STOP THE SURVEILLANCE STATE.
epic.org/stop-the-surveillance-state

--- page 2 ---
Finally, a cybersecurity expert discussed the extensive cybersecurity flaws in the Flock system, such as buttons directly on
the camera that allow access to footage, passwords, and other troves of data.
EPIC has long opposed the unchecked expansion of ALPRs and recently filed an amicus
brief arguing that Flock’s warrantless dragnet mass surveillance is unconstitutional. EPIC has supported various legislative
efforts to push back against automatic license plate readers.
Support Our Work
EPIC's work is funded by the support of individuals like you, who allow us to continue to
protect privacy, open government, and democratic values in the information age.
DONATE

--- page 3 ---
1519 New Hampshire Avenue NW
Washington, DC 20036
202.483.1140
|
info@epic.org
ISSUES
AI & Human Rights
Consumer Privacy
Cybersecurity
Data Protection
Democracy & Free Speech
Open Government
Platform Accountability & Governance
Privacy Laws
Surveillance Oversight
OUR WORK
Updates
Analysis
EPIC Alert
Events
EPIC Publications
Digital Library
MEDIA
EPIC in the News
Press Kit
Press Releases
ABOUT
EPIC Projects
Board & Staff
EPIC Advisory Board
Careers & Internships
Being a Non-profit
Cy Pres Awards
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
© Copyright 1994 - 2026 EPIC, all rights reserved.
DONATE