--- page 1 ---
Updates
EPIC Encourages CalPrivacy to Prohibit Dark
Patterns in Privacy Policies
May 20, 2026
In response to CalPrivacy’s request for input on the state’s privacy policy requirements, EPIC submitted comments on
Wednesday advising the Agency to ensure that policies are easily accessible, do not use dark patterns, and directly link to
ways Californians can exercise their privacy rights. 
EPIC’s comments argue that privacy policies and disclosures should be as clear as possible and directly tied to actionable
steps so that Californians can effectively exercise their rights under the California Consumer Privacy Act. The
CCPA established Californians’ right to know, correct, delete, and opt out of the sale of personal information, and it includes
strong data minimization requirements to protect state residents from the harmful overcollection of personal information,
out-of-context and impermissible secondary data uses, and excessive data retention. 
EPIC specifically recommended CalPrivacy address harms from privacy policies that are spread across
many documents and links and require policies to directly link to where individuals can exercise their rights under the
CCPA. These regulations should also prohibit the use of dark patterns in privacy policies, EPIC said. 
EPIC has consistently engaged with CalPrivacy to strengthen Californians’ privacy
rights. EPIC also regularly advocates against all forms of manipulative designpatterns, also known as dark patterns. This
week, EPIC published its latest report on the issue, titled Good Luck Opting Out: Manipulative Design Patterns in Opt-Out
Processes.
Join EPIC’s fight to STOP THE SURVEILLANCE STATE.
epic.org/stop-the-surveillance-state

--- page 2 ---
Support Our Work
EPIC's work is funded by the support of individuals like you, who allow us to continue to
protect privacy, open government, and democratic values in the information age.
DONATE

--- page 3 ---
1519 New Hampshire Avenue NW
Washington, DC 20036
202.483.1140
|
info@epic.org
ISSUES
AI & Human Rights
Consumer Privacy
Cybersecurity
Data Protection
Democracy & Free Speech
Open Government
Platform Accountability & Governance
Privacy Laws
Surveillance Oversight
OUR WORK
Updates
Analysis
EPIC Alert
Events
EPIC Publications
Digital Library
MEDIA
EPIC in the News
Press Kit
Press Releases
ABOUT
EPIC Projects
Board & Staff
EPIC Advisory Board
Careers & Internships
Being a Non-profit
Cy Pres Awards
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
© Copyright 1994 - 2026 EPIC, all rights reserved.
DONATE