--- page 1 ---
Updates
EPIC Files Amicus Brief Arguing City’s Use of
Flock ALPRs Violated Fourth Amendment
April 20, 2026
EPIC filed an amicus brief to the Fourth Circuit on April 20 in support of plaintiff-appellants in Schmidt v. City of Norfolk,
who allege that the Virginia city of Norfolk’s use of Flock’s Automated License Plate
Reader (ALPR) system creates a warrantless mass surveillance program and constitutes an unreasonable search in
violation of the Fourth Amendment. Plaintiffs appealed after the court dismissed the case in January. 
The brief details how ALPR systems expose the “privacies of life” of people going about their daily lives to law
enforcement by amassing troves of sensitive information—without a warrant—and combining it with other data so police
can infer the identities and continuously monitor the habits of everyday people. 
It also argues that these systems perpetuate discriminatory and potentially unconstitutional predictive policing practices, as
they were built on unvetted and inherently biased data that overrepresent poor and minority populations and use that
information to manufacture suspicion.  
“Absent strict safeguards, ALPRs revive the arbitrary powers of the reviled general warrant and undercut democracy,” the
brief notes. 
The Fourth Circuit should reverse the district court’s judgement and hold that Norfolk’s operation of a warrantless
dragnet mass surveillance program is unconstitutional, EPIC argues. 
Join EPIC’s fight to STOP THE SURVEILLANCE STATE.
epic.org/stop-the-surveillance-state

--- page 2 ---
Support Our Work
EPIC's work is funded by the support of individuals like you, who allow us to continue
to protect privacy, open government, and democratic values in the information age.
DONATE

--- page 3 ---
1519 New Hampshire Avenue NW
Washington, DC 20036
202.483.1140
|
info@epic.org
IS S U ES
AI & Human Rights
Consumer Privacy
Cybersecurity
Data Protection
Democracy & Free Speech
Open Government
Platform Accountability & Governance
Privacy Laws
Surveillance Oversight
O U R WO RK
Updates
Analysis
EPIC Alert
Events
EPIC Publications
Digital Library
MEDIA
EPIC in the News
Press Kit
Press Releases
ABO U T
EPIC Projects
Board & Staff
EPIC Advisory Board
Careers & Internships
Being a Non-profit
Cy Pres Awards
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
© Copyright 1994 - 2026 EPIC, all rights reserved.
DONATE