--- page 1 ---
An executive order from Gov. Mike Kehoe puts data, compliance and other guardrails
around license plate reading technology. It comes amid a national backlash against
Flock and other surveillance technologies.
September 18, 2026 • News Staff
Flock Safety
Flock Safety faces new data, compliance and facial recognition restrictions in
Missouri, among the latest developments in the national backlash against the
supplier of license plate reading technology.
Gov. Mike Kehoe, a Republican, issued an executive order this week that applies to
GOVTECH BIZ
Flock Safety Faces New ALPR Restrictions in
Missouri

--- page 2 ---
state and local agencies that receive state funding and use such tech.
For starters, such users must permanently delete license plate and vehicle images
within 30 days unless part of an “active and ongoing criminal investigation,” or
ongoing emergencies and missing person alerts.
Agencies covered under the order must receive from vendors of the technology
“written certification” that data be deleted in 30 days when applicable.
Courts may also order data retention past 30 days.
The order also mandates that data captured by automated license plate reader
systems is owned by the agency that uses the technology — not, for instance,
vendors and contractors.
The order prohibits the sale or access to the data for “any non-law enforcement
purpose.”
Kehoe’s order also prohibits use of data for anything other than “the administration of
criminal justice and bona fide lifesaving efforts” — a reflection of the allegations of
stalking and other misuses of the license plate reading technology.
Agencies cannot integrate automatic AI-powered facial recognition into these tools,
either, according to the order.
Flock has come under fire for its auditing practices — and has revised those rules in
recent months — but Kehoe told agencies covered by the order to “ensure every
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT

--- page 3 ---
Report: Government Purchasers Struggling With Inflation
September 15, 2026
News Staff
query records the user's identity and a valid active case number or specific law
enforcement justification.”
Penalties for misuse could include criminal charges.
In a statement emailed to Government Technology on Friday, a Flock Safety
spokesperson said the company “supports strong guardrails that protect privacy,
ensure accountability and preserve its important public safety uses.”
The spokesperson pointed out that Flock’s technology helps police solve crimes and
find missing people and added that “clear rules are critical to maintaining public trust
in these tools.”
Tags:
JUSTICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
MISSOURI
GOVTECH BIZ
POLICY
News Staff
SEE MORE STORIES BY NEWS STAFF
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
R E L A T E D  C O N T E N T
 ·

--- page 4 ---
CivicPlus Continues AI Push With New ‘Innovation Labs’
September 11, 2026
News Staff
DMV Dominates Public-Sector Digital Services, PayIt Says
September 10, 2026
News Staff
Procurement Gets New AI Connections via Civic Marketplace
September 01, 2026
News Staff
Procurement Firm Cloverleaf AI Reveals $8M Funding Round
August 28, 2026
News Staff
Veritone Gives Its FOIA Redaction Software an AI Boost
August 26, 2026
Thad Rueter
©2026 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. E.REPUBLIC LLC
DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION | PRIVACY & AI
 · 
 · 
 · 
 · 
 ·