Under Scrutiny, Flock Safety Debuts Automatic Auditing Tool News Analytics Artificial Intelligence Civic Innovation Cloud & Computing Cybersecurity Lohrmann on Cybersecurity Education Election Technology Emerging Tech Budget & Finance Infrastructure Government Experience GovTech Biz Biz Data Health & Human Services Justice & Public Safety Broadband & Network Policy Smart Cities Transportation Workforce & People Voices Gov Efficiency Events Webinars Papers Magazine About About Us Advertise Newsletters Contact More Center for Digital Education Center for Digital Government Center for Public Sector AI Emergency Management Digital Communities Digital States GovTech Top 25 GovTech 100 Menu News Analytics Artificial Intelligence Civic Innovation Cloud & Computing Cybersecurity Lohrmann on Cybersecurity Education Election Technology Emerging Tech Budget & Finance Infrastructure Government Experience GovTech Biz Biz Data Health & Human Services Justice & Public Safety Broadband & Network Policy Smart Cities Transportation Workforce & People Voices Gov Efficiency Events Webinars Papers Magazine About About Us Advertise Newsletters Contact More Center for Digital Education Center for Digital Government Center for Public Sector AI Emergency Management Digital Communities Digital States GovTech Top 25 GovTech 100 Show Search CONTINUE TO SITE The 2026 GT Top 25 Doers, Dreamers and Drivers have been announced. Read more Close ✕ IE 11 Not Supported For optimal browsing, we recommend Chrome, Firefox or Safari browsers. GovTech Biz Under Scrutiny, Flock Safety Debuts Automatic Auditing Tool The supplier of license plate readers and other public safety tech has come under fire for privacy, immigration, data sharing and other concerns. The new tool aims to ease some of the worries about Flock’s products. April 24, 2026 • News Staff Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Print Email Flock Safety has released a trust and compliance tool as the public safety technology supplier continues to fight backlash from public officials and their constituents. The company, known for its license plate reading tech and its drone business , has launched Audit Assistance, part of the company’s existing Trust and Compliance suite . According to a statement from Flock , Audit Assistance “continuously monitors system activity and surfaces search patterns that fall outside an agency’s typical usage.” That means administrators for agencies that use Flock’s products can “proactively” learn about uses of that tech that “warrants a closer look.” The release comes as some local police departments question the accuracy of information from Flock about their license plate readers (LPRs), and as residents and public officials keep raising issues related to privacy and use of Flock tools in the nation’s ongoing immigration crackdown. Illinois has accused Flock of illegally sharing data gathered by its products, though Flock has said it works hard to make sure its tech remains in compliance with relevant laws, and that the company’s job is not to “police the police.” Flock says it has “always retained audit records” for every automated license plate recognition search. But the process, according to the company, typically is “manual, tedious and reactive.” The new tool is more efficient and can save time for users, according to the statement. “This audit tool ensures every LPR search is accountable, transparent and aligned with our department policies,” said Major Hudson Bull, commander of the Fairfax County, Va., Police Department’s Real Time Crime Center, in the statement. “By automating compliance we are strengthening public trust while advancing our use of technology to fight crime.” Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Print Email Tags: Justice and Public Safety Artificial Intelligence GovTech Biz Policy News Staff See More Stories by News Staff Related Content GovTech Biz Property Intelligence Startup Balcony Raises $12.7M May 07, 2026 · News Staff GovTech Biz 911 Translate Offers (Mostly) Free Call Center Access May 05, 2026 · Thad Rueter GovTech Biz Miovison Launches AI Agent for Traffic Data and Management May 04, 2026 · Thad Rueter GovTech Biz AI-Powered Drone Supplier SkyfireAI Raises $11M in Seed Round April 28, 2026 · News Staff GovTech Biz NEOGOV’s Newest Acquisition Focuses on Public Safety April 27, 2026 · News Staff GovTech Biz New Asset Panda Platform Brings More AI to Asset Management April 22, 2026 · Thad Rueter Never miss a story with the GovTech Today newsletter. SUBSCRIBE twitter youtube facebook linkedin ©2026 All rights reserved. e.Republic LLC Do Not Sell My Personal Information | Privacy & AI