--- page 1 ---
Law enforcement officials in many cities that have deployed automatic license plate
recognition cameras say they help solve crimes, but critics are skeptical and raise
concerns about privacy.
July 24, 2024 • Jim McKay
Shutterstock
The deployment of automatic license plate recognition (ALPR) cameras on city
roadways is one way police say can help fight crime amid staffing shortages, and
some jurisdictions are reporting good results, not only in locating stolen vehicles but
in solving other crimes as well.
PUBLIC SAFETY
Despite Successes, ALPR Tech Still Raises Privacy
Concerns

--- page 2 ---
But does that alone make ALPRs a viable tool that not only helps law enforcement
fight crime, but does so without harm to the public? There are concerns about the
installation of ALPRs, including cost and privacy.
Houston has 3,800 ALPR cameras strategically located throughout the city and isn’t
apologetic about it. Houston police say the cameras have helped them solve several
shootings recently, including that of rapper BTB Savage.
“The days of chasing criminals the old-fashioned way are over. We’re not on horses
anymore,” Lt. Mike Santos, sheriff’s deputy, told the Houston Chronicle last month
after the East Aldine Management District said it was planning on adding 60 new
cameras at a cost of $1 million. “If we can use technology to our benefit, then let’s do
it.”
And early results in San Francisco and Chicago have affirmed the value of the
cameras, at least from a law enforcement perspective.
But not everybody is on board. In Chicago, where ALPRs are being credited with
helping solve crimes, including a murder, Illinois State Police and legislators are
facing a lawsuit that claims the cameras on area expressways violate privacy
protections in the constitution.
San Francisco Mayor London Breed also proclaimed the city’s 100 cameras to be
successful early on in their deployment and said that a dip in violent crimes of 13
percent and a 33 percent decline in property crimes proves it. The Electronic Frontier
Foundation is pushing back, however. Saira Hussain, senior staff attorney from that
group, recently told a local radio station that studies have shown that the license
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT

--- page 3 ---
plate readers do not have a discernable effect on solving crime.
“We should not just merely say, ‘Well, the technology exists, so we should just use
it,”’ Hussain told KQED.
Jonathan Hofer, a research assistant at the Independent Institute, a non-partisan,
nonprofit public-policy research organization, said ALPRs “may” represent an
invasion of privacy.
Just taking a photograph of a license plate would not be considered an invasion of
privacy. But when you add into the equation the collection of data, it changes the
game.
“Unlike consumer cameras, ALPRs log and retain other information, such as time and
place,” Hofer wrote in an email to Emergency Management. “Some ALPRs log other
information, such as the make and model of the car, and can deduce travel direction
and speed. Because of this extra data collection, ALPRs ‘may’ be a privacy invasion.”
The ALPRs, it is argued, by deducing travel direction and speed can also deduce and
calculate where individuals go on a daily basis.
The government is not allowed to put a GPS on your car without a warrant and
cannot retrace your geographic steps with data, including from cellphone records. So
it stands to reason that if you have enough ALPRs in a network and use the network
to locate a vehicle, that would be an invasion of privacy.
In other words, the ALPRs would be considered a privacy invasion when they amount
to a pseudo-GPS device.
Hofer noted that when talking about the government’s police powers, extra care is
required for civil liberties, and the standard for the government should be high given
the possible sensitivity of the data.
“I think ALPRs come at a cost of privacy,” Hofer wrote. “Travel patterns are indeed
sensitive. They are like fingerprints and they reveal intimate details of a person’s life.

--- page 4 ---
©2026 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. E.REPUBLIC LLC
DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION | PRIVACY & AI
Imagine a person going to an LGBTQ bar, a shooting range, a place of worship or a
particular political rally, and the police are logging [their] car there.”
He said there have been cases of police using ALPRs to stalk people. “Recently, in
California, and some other states, there has been a concern that police are sharing
records of residents of other states where abortion is banned, and police are handing
over data that is logging cars to abortion centers.”
He said there are immigration concerns as well. “California has sanctuary laws, but
sometimes the ALPR data can make its way to immigration authorities.”
Tags:
RESPONSE
Jim McKay
Jim McKay is the former editor of Emergency Management magazine.
SEE MORE STORIES BY JIM MCKAY