Flock Safety Suspension Costs Oregon City $7,000 News Analytics Artificial Intelligence Civic Innovation Cloud & Computing Cybersecurity Lohrmann on Cybersecurity Education Election Technology Emerging Tech Budget & Finance Infrastructure Government Experience GovTech Biz Biz Data Health & Human Services Justice & Public Safety Broadband & Network Policy Smart Cities Transportation Workforce & People Voices Gov Efficiency Events Webinars Papers Magazine About About Us Advertise Newsletters Contact More Center for Digital Education Center for Digital Government Center for Public Sector AI Emergency Management Digital Communities Digital States GovTech Top 25 GovTech 100 Sponsored Articles Menu News Analytics Artificial Intelligence Civic Innovation Cloud & Computing Cybersecurity Lohrmann on Cybersecurity Education Election Technology Emerging Tech Budget & Finance Infrastructure Government Experience GovTech Biz Biz Data Health & Human Services Justice & Public Safety Broadband & Network Policy Smart Cities Transportation Workforce & People Voices Gov Efficiency Events Webinars Papers Magazine About About Us Advertise Newsletters Contact More Center for Digital Education Center for Digital Government Center for Public Sector AI Emergency Management Digital Communities Digital States GovTech Top 25 GovTech 100 Sponsored Articles Show Search CONTINUE TO SITE ✕ IE 11 Not Supported For optimal browsing, we recommend Chrome, Firefox or Safari browsers. Justice & Public Safety Flock Safety Suspension Costs Oregon City $7,000 Albany, Ore., is terminating its contract with Flock Safety, which operates license plate-reading cameras, and doing so ahead of its December renewal will cost around $7,000, according to the city manager. June 18, 2026 • Hans Boyle, Albany Democrat-Herald, Ore. Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Print Email (TNS) — Albany is out four figures after suspending its contract with Flock Safety, which operates license plate-reading cameras. Terminating the contract early will cost around $7,000, according to City Manager Peter Troedsson. It had been up for renewal in December, and using the company's system cost the city around double that each year it was in operation. The city only ever had one camera posted on Ellsworth Street, but had plans to install three more. The one operating camera was later stolen. Albany sent a formal letter to the Atlanta-based company, making that termination effective June 29, Troedsson said in a recent email. It’s not a letter city officials like Troedsson or Albany police Chief Marcia Harnden had been looking to send, having defended the technology as a valuable law enforcement tool at multiple meetings this year. Underscoring that sentiment, in his response to a reporter's question about the termination fee, Troedsson said the $7,000 figure had to be “added to the loss of the value of the capability the technology provided.” Albany had switched off its one operating Flock camera in February, after Mid-Valley Media’s report that a nonprofit found federal and out-of-state agencies had searched Oregon Flock networks in 2025, including Albany's. Over the last year, other Oregon cities have hit the pause button. The Bend City Council voted to switch off its Flock cameras in January, while last December, Eugene and Springfield announced they would turn off their cameras, and the Talent City Council voted to do the same. Also in December, the Lane County Sheriff’s Office announced it had suspended its contract with Flock. Woodburn turned off its cameras in November. But not all cites using Flock equipment have gone that direction. On the coast, the Florence City Council voted in February to keep its cameras running after hearing concerns from residents. Asked for exactly how many contracts had been suspended in Oregon and nationwide this year, Flock spokesperson Paris Lewbel evaded the answer in an email this week. He said that while the company “did not have a specific tally to share,” the number of new partners this year had "significantly outpaced the number of agencies that have decided not to continue.” In the same statement, Lewbel lauded the technology’s value, saying Flock supported more than 1 million criminal investigations and incidents, assisted in an estimated 20% of solved cases in the areas where the technology is deployed, and helped locate more than 10,000 missing persons in 2025. “When a tool that is actively helping solve violent crimes, locate suspects, and find missing people is removed, public safety moves backward," he said. But for dozens of residents who gave their two cents to the Albany City Council last month, the technology raised too many concerns about privacy and data security, all of which were heightened by a deep distrust in the federal government under the Trump administration. The council voted to suspend the contract on May 28, becoming one of the latest cities in Oregon to cut ties with Flock. © 2026 Albany Democrat-Herald, Ore. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC. Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Print Email Tags: Oregon Justice and Public Safety Privacy Local Government Related Content Justice & Public Safety Top New Jersey Court Orders Facial Recognition Disclosure June 25, 2026 Justice & Public Safety Santa Fe, N.M., Gunshot Detection System Yields Results June 22, 2026 Justice & Public Safety FBI Fighting to Keep Drones Out of World Cup Sites June 18, 2026 Justice & Public Safety Pontiac, Mich., Renews Contract With Flock Safety June 17, 2026 Justice & Public Safety Speeding Has Dropped by Half Since This City Deployed Cameras June 16, 2026 Justice & Public Safety Retailers Say They Use Flock Safety Tech Responsibly June 12, 2026 Never miss a story with the GovTech Today newsletter. SUBSCRIBE twitter youtube facebook linkedin ©2026 All rights reserved. e.Republic LLC Do Not Sell My Personal Information | Privacy & AI