--- page 1 ---
But some community members and privacy rights activism groups say that some of
the biggest retailers have been quietly deploying ALPRs with no meaningful public
notice or feedback.
June 12, 2026 • Cornelius Frolik, Dayton Daily News
(TNS) — Some of the biggest retailers in the world say they are very careful in how
they use, share and retain data they collect from automated license plate readers
outside their stores. Businesses, including Home Depot, Lowe's, Costco, Target
and Walmart, say they understand the importance of protecting people's privacy, and
they will only use ALPRs for safety and security and to prevent and detect crime at
their properties.
JUSTICE & PUBLIC SAFETY
Retailers Say They Use Flock Safety Tech
Responsibly

--- page 2 ---
But some community members and privacy rights groups say retailers have been
quietly deploying ALPRs with no meaningful public notice or feedback. They say
there is no guaranteed oversight of commercial use of this powerful technology, and
they worry the data that businesses collect can be accessed by outside agencies and
third parties for controversial purposes, like immigration enforcement.
"Companies need to be able to clearly show how they are using the data, how they
are accessing it and what they are doing with the data to protect the rights of the
public," said Christina Méndez, executive director of the Dayton Hispanic Chamber of
Commerce. "How do you use it for the protection of your business and your
employees and your property while also protecting the essence of community?"
Privacy asks
The Dayton Daily News confirmed that Lowe's stores across southwest Ohio have
ALPRs, and some Home Depot stores have ALPRs nearby. Records of Flock shared
networks obtained by this news outlet indicate that Lowe's and Home Depot stores in
the state provide at least some local police agencies with access to their stores'
ALPR databases.
Shareholders of Home Depot and Lowe's last month considered and ultimately voted
down separate proposals that called for the companies to issue new reports to try to
evaluate potential data-sharing privacy risks, including from the use of ALPRs.
Casey Hudek, who spoke in favor of a privacy report proposal on behalf of the AFL-
CIO reserve fund, said Lowe's voluntarily shares its ALPR data with various law
enforcement agencies, and many state and local police agencies have agreements
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT

--- page 3 ---
with Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
He said some of Lowe's customers, including citizens and legal immigrants, may be
reluctant to patronize the company's stores because they fear that they may be
racially profiled.
"We are concerned that our company's license plate reader data could be used for
controversial immigration enforcement purposes," he said.
Lowe's board in a proxy statement said the company already has robust data privacy
practices that protect customers and a new report would be unnecessary.
Proponents of a new privacy assessment for Home Depot said the company could
face financial, legal and reputational risks if there was misuse or unauthorized use of
the data collected by security technology. However, in a statement to shareholders,
the Home Depot board of directors said the company already has strong internal
policies and procedures that restrict ALPR use for authorized purposes by authorized
parties.
"The company uses ALPR technology to protect the safety of customers and
associates and to detect and prevent organized retail crime, and the company has
seen significant benefits associated with these purposes since its initial deployment,"
the board said.
Teresa Wynn Roseborough, Home Depot's executive vice president and general
counsel, told shareholders that the company uses ALPRs to protect employees' and
customers' safety and to detect and combat organized retail theft.
"We do not grant access to our license plate readers to federal law enforcement and
we have not authorized any law enforcement agency other than local and state law
enforcement agencies to access our ALPR data," she said. "If one of these
authorized agencies shared ALPR data with an unauthorized third party, it would
violate our data-sharing agreement."
What companies sayCompanies that use ALPRS say they have privacy safeguards

--- page 4 ---
in place. Many publish privacy statements about security technology they utilize on
their websites.
Target says access and use of ALPR systems is restricted to authorized users who
receive special training about protecting confidential information. The company says
it conducts periodic audits to review data accuracy, system access and retention.
Walmart promises that the company monitors ALPR systems for accuracy, and
access is limited to authorized associates who have undergone training about data
protection and privacy.
Costco says it restricts access to ALPR technology and information to "personnel
with a need-to-know such information," such as loss prevention and security staff and
senior management. Costco also states that the company tries to ensure the
accuracy and integrity of the information it collects through measures like access
control and logs.
Meijer says its plate recognition systems are not used to track or monitor customers,
and the company typically does not share any data with third parties.
Many retail chains — including Home Depot and Lowe's — say they will not share
ALPR data with third parties or allow outside access, except in limited circumstances,
such as when they are cooperating with law enforcement investigations or to protect
customers, employees or property.
Potential risks
Companies, understandably, are trying to combat theft and crime, and they may view
ALPR systems as just another routine security equipment purchase, similar to
investing in cybersecurity software, said Sarah Hamid, director of strategic
campaigns for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a nonprofit organization focused
on privacy issues.
But Hamid said this is a mistake because this is not run-of-the-mill technology. She
said ALPRs are capable of tracking people's movements in a very alarming and

--- page 5 ---
intrusive way.
Hamid said every vehicle that passes by a commercially owned ALPR is logged, and
businesses can share this data with law enforcement agencies and other outside
organizations that are connected through a massive network of camera systems.
Hamid said police agencies can search through these databases without a warrant
for untold numbers of reasons, including immigration. Hamid said businesses may
say they have policies to protect customers' privacy, but there is no way to truly know
if oversight is actually taking place since most places have no regulations, like
disclosure requirements or retention limits.
Hamid said retailers like Home Depot have been very resistant to disclosing their
ALPR policies and have not approved or committed to third-party audits of these
systems or other oversight measures.
"It could be that private retailers ... aren't even recognizing the risks that they are
putting (on) their customers and the people who frequent their parking lots," she said.
"This is not a low-stakes decision. Thinking through how you are going to protect the
privacy of your customers is a business decision — it impacts your bottom line, it
impacts your brand reputation and it impacts the safety of your customers."
Méndez, with the Dayton Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, said companies should
not be sharing ALPR data they collect with outside groups. In her view, that goes far
beyond just protecting the company's stores.
Méndez said community members are concerned that data businesses — and local
governments — capture can wind up in the hands of ICE or other federal agencies.
Home Depot says it does not share its data with federal law enforcement. But ICE
has agreements with local and state law enforcement agencies, which means that
police potentially could perform searches on the federal agency's behalf. Also, even if
businesses do not share their ALPR data with outside networks, they may still
provide the data if they receive subpoenas or requests from law enforcement.
Privacy statements of a variety of large retailers do not explicitly state that their ALPR

--- page 6 ---
data will not be shared with federal authorities.
Privacy advocates say companies should set clear restrictions about how they use
ALPR data and how long they keep the information. They say many retailers' current
policies have vague prohibitions, that provide a lot of leeway.
Gary Daniels, legislative director for the ACLU of Ohio, said local and state laws are
"desperately needed" to regulate ALPRs, such as restrictions on data-sharing by
non-government organizations.
A small number of states restrict ALPR use by companies and private
individuals. Arkansas prohibits partnerships, companies, associations or state
agencies from using the technology, except for limited law enforcement uses,
controlling access to secured areas or for parking enforcement. Maine does not allow
private businesses or other non-public entities to use plate reader technology, except
for very limited purposes.
Privacy rights groups also are calling on companies to agree to short data retention
periods.
Walmart says it retains personal information collected by ALPRs for 60 days, unless
the information is needed for legal proceedings or "other lawful purposes." Target
says it generally retains data for 30 days; Lowe's says it typically keeps ALPR data
for up to 90 days; and Costco says it keeps data up to about 180 days.
© 2026 the Dayton Daily News (Dayton, Ohio). Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.
Tags:
OHIO
JUSTICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
PRIVACY
ADVERTISEMENT
G O V T E C H  T O D A Y

--- page 7 ---
Aurora, Colo., Police Produce Podcast to Help Solve Cold Case
June 12, 2026
Cleveland Fire Trucks Use New Tech to Alert Drivers
June 11, 2026
Oregon City Discusses Steps to Update Tsunami Alert System
June 10, 2026
Drone Program Gives Fort Worth Police ‘Eyes in the Sky’
June 05, 2026
New Police Tech Contract Ignites Privacy Debate in Durham, N.C.
June 02, 2026
How Tech Is Transforming Police Work in Idaho
June 01, 2026
Delivered daily to your inbox to stay on top of the latest state & local
government technology trends.
FREE NEWSLETTER SIGN UP
Email Address*
ADVERTISEMENT
R E L A T E D  C O N T E N T

--- page 8 ---
©2026 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. E.REPUBLIC LLC
DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION | PRIVACY & AI