--- page 1 ---
Albany, Ore., is terminating its contract with Flock Safety, which operates license
plate-reading cameras, and doing so ahead of its December renewal will cost around
$7,000, according to the city manager.
June 18, 2026 • Hans Boyle, Albany Democrat-Herald, Ore.
(TNS) — Albany is out four figures after suspending its contract with Flock Safety,
which operates license plate-reading cameras.
Terminating the contract early will cost around $7,000, according to City
Manager Peter Troedsson. It had been up for renewal in December, and using the
company's system cost the city around double that each year it was in operation.
JUSTICE & PUBLIC SAFETY
Flock Safety Suspension Costs Oregon City $7,000

--- page 2 ---
The city only ever had one camera posted on Ellsworth Street, but had plans to
install three more. The one operating camera was later stolen.
Albany sent a formal letter to the Atlanta-based company, making that termination
effective June 29, Troedsson said in a recent email.
It’s not a letter city officials like Troedsson or Albany police Chief Marcia Harnden had
been looking to send, having defended the technology as a valuable law enforcement
tool at multiple meetings this year.
Underscoring that sentiment, in his response to a reporter's question about the
termination fee, Troedsson said the $7,000 figure had to be “added to the loss of the
value of the capability the technology provided.”
Albany had switched off its one operating Flock camera in February, after Mid-Valley
Media’s report that a nonprofit found federal and out-of-state agencies had
searched Oregon Flock networks in 2025, including Albany's.
Over the last year, other Oregon cities have hit the pause button.
The Bend City Council voted to switch off its Flock cameras in January, while last
December, Eugene and Springfield announced they would turn off their cameras, and
the Talent City Council voted to do the same.
Also in December, the Lane County Sheriff’s Office announced it had suspended its
contract with Flock. Woodburn turned off its cameras in November.
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT

--- page 3 ---
But not all cites using Flock equipment have gone that direction. On the coast,
the Florence City Council voted in February to keep its cameras running after hearing
concerns from residents.
Asked for exactly how many contracts had been suspended in Oregon and
nationwide this year, Flock spokesperson Paris Lewbel evaded the answer in an
email this week. He said that while the company “did not have a specific tally to
share,” the number of new partners this year had "significantly outpaced the number
of agencies that have decided not to continue.”
In the same statement, Lewbel lauded the technology’s value, saying Flock
supported more than 1 million criminal investigations and incidents, assisted in an
estimated 20% of solved cases in the areas where the technology is deployed, and
helped locate more than 10,000 missing persons in 2025.
“When a tool that is actively helping solve violent crimes, locate suspects, and find
missing people is removed, public safety moves backward," he said.
But for dozens of residents who gave their two cents to the Albany City Council last
month, the technology raised too many concerns about privacy and data security, all
of which were heightened by a deep distrust in the federal government under the
Trump administration.
The council voted to suspend the contract on May 28, becoming one of the latest
cities in Oregon to cut ties with Flock.
© 2026 Albany Democrat-Herald, Ore. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.
Tags:
OREGON
JUSTICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
PRIVACY
LOCAL GOVERNMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
G O V T E C H  T O D A Y

--- page 4 ---
Top New Jersey Court Orders Facial Recognition Disclosure
June 25, 2026
Santa Fe, N.M., Gunshot Detection System Yields Results
June 22, 2026
FBI Fighting to Keep Drones Out of World Cup Sites
June 18, 2026
Pontiac, Mich., Renews Contract With Flock Safety
June 17, 2026
Speeding Has Dropped by Half Since This City Deployed Cameras
June 16, 2026
Retailers Say They Use Flock Safety Tech Responsibly
June 12, 2026
Delivered daily to your inbox to stay on top of the latest state & local
government technology trends.
FREE NEWSLETTER SIGN UP
Email Address*
ADVERTISEMENT
R E L A T E D  C O N T E N T

--- page 5 ---
©2026 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. E.REPUBLIC LLC
DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION | PRIVACY & AI