--- page 1 ---
Flock Safety and its automated license plate reader tools have many supporters. But a growing backlash against the company around
June 04, 2026 • Thad Rueter
Flock Safety
Flock Safety’s automatic license plate readers have helped police catch violent criminals and thieves, locate stolen cars, find missing 
The surveillance technology has also, however, sparked a backlash among residents, civil liberty advocates and politicians who consi
That backlash has led to new state laws designed to protect citizens against alleged abuses of Flock’s automatic license plate readers
GT SPOTLIGHT
Why Flock Safety Finds Itself in a Surveillance Backlash

--- page 2 ---
It has also put the company on the defensive and raised questions about the future of public safety technology, which is embracing AI 
Such improvements might be cheered by law enforcement. But they leave many critics distrustful and ready to lobby elected officials a
Flock has become the “poster boy” for growing worries about potential invasions of privacy via cutting-edge police technology, says Ro
“What Americans are starting to realize is there’s been an entire surveillance industry erected around them,” Frommer says.
FLOCK’S GROWTH
In some ways, Flock is a government technology success story.
Founded in 2017, Atlanta-based Flock Safety’s backers include investment and political heavyweight Andreessen Horowitz, along with
Flock’s total funding stands at $1.2 billion, according to Crunchbase, including a recent $275 million investment round. That round valu
The company says it has more than 12,000 clients across the U.S., which includes more than 5,000 law enforcement agencies, 1,000
Flock has also moved into drones, another growing area for public safety tech.
Yet a backlash against the company has mounted, and for now that backlash focuses on its most famous offering, ALPRs. They use p
Well-publicized accusations of misuse of that tech — including for recent federal immigration raids, which are increasingly unpopular a
Between August 2021 and May 2026, 82 Flock contracts were terminated in 28 states, according to reporting by the San Francisco St
An anti-Flock online operation called DeFlock estimates that 68 cities specifically have rejected the company’s tech since August 2021
Flock, and some of its largest investors, did not provide comment for this story.
But through blog posts and previous comments to Government Technology, Flock has insisted that its employees follow the law and d
In reference to concerns that critics have raised over the company sharing data with federal immigration authorities, Flock has denied 
Flock has touted its development of auditing and monitoring tools and policies designed to protect against clients and others who wou
THE BACKLASH
Much of the backlash to Flock’s technology comes from concerns about privacy.
In modern life, many common products and services transfer tremendous amounts of personal data to faceless third parties, including
“As surveillance grows, privacy protections are not keeping pace,” said M. Lorena González, legislative director for the ACLU of Wash
Such distrust is reflected in a new Washington state law which limits use of Flock readers and their data to felony investigations and o
More anti-Flock laws loom, including a proposed federal bill that would keep federal highway funding from any state that allows ALPRs

--- page 3 ---
Flock also attracts ire from citizens.
Jason Hunyar lives in Dunwoody, Ga., an Atlanta suburb, and he said he began opposing the technology after Flock used data from it
Hunyar told Government Technology he made more than 100 Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests about Flock. He also publis
Hunyar isn’t against all emerging police tech. He supports upgraded 911 call center platforms to speed up emergency response. But h
The Dunwoody City Council ended up unanimously approving a new agreement with Flock. The agreement, however, prohibits Flock 
Meanwhile, Will Freeman, who runs DeFlock, says there is a lack of independent studies that confirm the crime-fighting successes cla
“These are very dangerous tools,” Freeman says. “And the problem is bigger than Flock. We move very quickly into adopting tech bef
PROCUREMENT PRACTICES
Part of that speed perhaps comes from mastery of gov tech procurement, which critics and supports agree it does well enough to star
Agencies such as the Cook County Sheriff’s Office in Illinois — home of Chicago — have a cooperative, or piggyback, contract with F
Such contracts are mainstream in gov tech. Also in Cook County, money to pay for Flock has come out of the Sheriff’s Office’s operati
That funding has sparked controversy, however, as the Sheriff’s Office, which already has 125 Flock ALPRs, seeks more money for th
DANE COUNTY, WIS.
One area that reflects the ongoing debate over Flock is Dane County, Wis., which includes Madison, a city that is home to both the sta
County supervisors in April voted 32-1 to stop the sheriff’s office from spending $80,000 on Flock ALPRs; the office had received 24 ca
The sheriff’s office tells Government Technology the cameras assisted in 18 arrests, the recovery of 12 stolen vehicles and three hom
But concerns about privacy and data sharing sank the new deal, with county officials criticizing sharing ALPR data with federal agenci
“Nothing about this action suggests that our deputies have misused this system,” said Supervisor Chad Kemp in a statement. “But the
By June, county officials moved to reinstate that $80,000 in ALPR funding, though that money would probably go to a Flock competito
And the renewed spending comes with conditions: Data must remain under the “full control” of the sheriff’s office and “transparent doc
Dane County Sheriff’s Office Capt. Ira Simpson tells Government Technology that ALPR tech is important, but acknowledged that the 
“Our focus is not on revisiting Flock specifically,” Simpson says, but “identifying” other suppliers that can both meet the crime-fighting n
MORE ACCOUNTABILITY
Similar concerns about sharing data with feds led to the removal of 16 Flock cameras in Cambridge, Mass., last year — a decision aff
The city plans to evaluate other ALPR tech, but with a more skeptical view.
The Chicago suburb of Oak Park offers a similar lesson: Officials and residents aren’t swearing off ALPRs as they kick Flock to the cu
Village Trustee Derek Eder voted “no.” And he now says he has a “high bar” for any new deal for surveillance technology. He favors a

--- page 4 ---
word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word wo
word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word wo
word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word
Supporters of Flock — reportedly in contention for an FBI contract to access ALPR data — are fighting back, sometimes in dramatic w
For instance, after Bandera, a small town in Texas, voted in May to fire Flock, a councilmember threatened to introduce a bill banning 
Around the same time, Rahul Sidhu, Flock’s chief strategy officer, posted a hard-worded message on his LinkedIn in response to Aust
He described how suspects in stolen vehicles conducted a shooting spree in Austin but were only caught in nearby Manor, Texas, whi
“After the suspects drove into Manor to continue their shooting spree, Manor PD located them almost immediately. The residents of M
But Frommer, the attorney who has filed suits against them, argues that Flock can only blame itself and its style of fast growth for its p
“The lack of guardrails are what hurt the company,” Frommer says. “We are not trying to ban those cameras. We are just saying go th
Tags:
JUSTICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
STATE GOVERNMENT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT
PRIVACY
GOVTECH BIZ
Delivered daily to your inbox to stay on top of the latest state & local government technology trends.
FREE NEWSLETTER SIGN UP
Thad Rueter writes about the business of government technology. He covered local and state governments for newspapers in the Chicago area and
SEE MORE STORIES BY THAD RUETER
Thad Rueter
G O V T E C H  T O D A Y
Email Address*

--- page 5 ---
mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1
mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1
mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1
mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1
mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1
mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1
mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1