source: packet.pdf
sha256: b8dca9f335160319e770c9fb0cabf48f62b69d5c08f8e38adb337837016ec0fe
pages: 69
ocr_pages: 2
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
February 6, 2023
5:30 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Adam Loraine
Rob Newsom Jr.
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: February 6, 2023
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 818 7210 6537      Passcode: 899973
Council Member Rich Hedges will teleconference into this meeting from:
2405 Kalanianaole Avenue – PH-11 Hilo, Hawaii 96720
 
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
 
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the consideration of these items. Following the meeting a report of action
from Closed Session will be provided if required.
1.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation, Worker’s Compensation
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
2.
Pavement Management and Smooth Streets Program – Informational Update
Receive an informational update on the Pavement Management and Smooth Streets Programs.
CEQA: This action of receiving an informational update is not a project subject to CEQA because it is an
organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the
environment. (CEQA) Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
3.
City Manager Recruitment
Utilize the services of an executive recruiter and a City Council subcommittee for City Manager recruitment
activities.
1 of 69

--- page 2 ---
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
4.
Consideration of Winter Storm Damage Relief Fund
Provide feedback and guidance to staff on contributing City funds to relief efforts for residents and businesses
that suffered damage resulting from the recent winter storms and determine the criteria and administration
method for distributing funding.
CEQA: This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 69

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION        Acct No.: 10-4662
File ID: 23-7092
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
February 6, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Pavement Management and Smooth Streets Program – Informational Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an informational update on the Pavement Management and Smooth Streets Programs.
BACKGROUND:
The City owns and maintains pavement assets consisting of approximately 200 miles of streets, bike paths, and alleyways.
The Pavement Management Program (PMP) is managed by Public Works and implements the annual pavement 
maintenance and capital improvements that cannot be performed by the City’s field maintenance crews. The goals of the 
PMP are: (1) to maintain the City’s streets with a Pavement Condition Index (PCI) above 70; (2) minimize deferred 
maintenance; (3) reduce the number of failed streets; and (4) optimize the use of available funds. While the PMP focuses 
on the management of the City’s entire pavement assets, a separate Smooth Streets Program (SSP) was created in 2013 to 
reconstruct over 22 miles of streets that were identified to have failed or were at risk of failing. The SSP is a focused 
initiative with special funding to repair failed streets, an effort that was identified by the Council as a priority.
Pavement Management Program
In the past five years, the PMP has resulted in the implementation of improvements to approximately 60 miles of streets 
using various treatment methods, including 35 miles treated with crack seal, 10 miles slurry sealed, and 15 miles 
resurfaced. The PMP uses the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) StreetSaver program, which provides 
recommendations for project scopes based on optimizing available budget to advance the goals of the PMP. The project 
scopes are coordinated with other planned City and utility projects to minimize impacts to the public.
Every two to three years, the City inspects its roadways, updates the current PCI based on the inspection, and evaluates 
potential funding scenarios for future years and the anticipated outcomes. The most recent inspection was completed in 
September 2020 with scenario analysis completed in March 2021. These inspections and scenario analyses are funded by 
MTC Pavement Management Technical Assistance Program or “P-TAP” grants. The City was awarded a MTC “P-TAP” grant 
last month, which will fund a new round of inspection and scenario analyses to occur this year. The information obtained 
through the scenario analyses are used to determine upcoming roadway maintenance, rehabilitation, and reconstruction 
projects.
Smooth Streets Program
Street segments with a PCI of less than 25 are considered “failed” and generally require expensive, full street 
reconstruction to restore. The City’s SSP is based on a 2013 assessment of the City’s network and includes 17 miles of 
streets in this failed category plus an additional five miles of “at-risk” streets with a PCI between 25 and 39, which were in 
poor condition and at risk of failing. Of the 17 miles of failed streets, 11 miles have been restored and two miles are 
currently in construction. The program has also completed restoration of four miles of the “at-risk” streets. The remaining 
3 of 69

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
four miles of failed streets and one mile of at-risk streets in the Smooth Streets Program are currently scheduled for 
completion by 2025 at an estimated cost of approximately $29 million. Cost inflation, difficult soil conditions, and the 
amount of concrete improvements within the project limits are some of the factors affecting the increased cost trends.
Since 2016, the SSP has been funded primarily by voter-approved Measure S funds. In February 2020, the City allocated 
$21.6 million of bonds to the SSP that were secured with Measure S revenues. Other funding sources such as SB1, 
Measure A, and Measure W are used to fund both the SSP and PMP. Historically, a portion of gas taxes, general funds, and 
grants have also been allocated to the PMP. The staff presentation will elaborate on the topics above, including pavement 
restoration methods and future funding needs to maintain the City’s roadways in good condition. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this informational item.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action of receiving an informational update is not a project subject to CEQA because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA) Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Stephanie Gindlesperger, Senior Engineer
sgindlesperger@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7315
4 of 69

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-2311
File ID: 23-7156
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
February 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
City Manager Recruitment
RECOMMENDATION:
Utilize the services of an executive recruiter and a City Council subcommittee for City Manager recruitment activities.
BACKGROUND:
City Manager Drew Corbett has served the City of San Mateo extremely well the past four years. He recently provided the 
Council with his notice of retirement (Attachment 1) effective June 30, 2023. This report outlines the general parameters 
for the recruitment and selection process for a new City Manager. The City Council is asked to provide direction to staff 
regarding this process. 
Consequently, a recruitment will assist the City Council with finding Mr. Corbett’s successor. Section 3.01 of the City of San 
Mateo’s Charter establishes the requirements for the City Manager’s qualifications, appointment, and compensation. 
“There shall be a city manager who shall be appointed by and who shall serve at the pleasure of the city council. The city 
manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of the city manager’s executive and administrative qualifications. The city 
manager shall receive such compensation for services as the council shall determine.” The powers and duties of the City 
Manager are further described in Section 3.04, Attachment 2. 
A document prepared by the International City/County Managers’ Association (ICMA) entitled, “Recruitment Guidelines 
for Selecting a Local Government Administrator” is also provided for the City Council’s information in Attachment 3. 
SUMMARY OF RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION PROCESS 
Similar to the process successfully used in 2018 to fill the City Manager position and in 2021 to fill the City Attorney 
position, the typical recruitment and selection process for hiring a City Manager would include: 
•
Developing the City Manager Position Profile – The recruiter holds individual interviews with all of the City Council 
members, Department Heads, and other key staff to identify the organizational needs and professional attributes 
needed for the position. The City Council may also want to utilize methods of providing the public with 
opportunities for input in developing the position profile. 
•
Prepare the Recruitment Brochure, Marketing Materials, and Advertising Plan – A recruitment brochure and 
marketing materials are developed based upon the position profile and organizational needs analysis. 
•
Candidate Outreach – While advertising and marketing in various media are helpful, the best candidates 
sometimes must be actively sought out and their interest encouraged. 
5 of 69

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
Candidate Assessment and Initial Screening – The recruiter screens applicants to determine if they match the 
position profile. A recruiter typically interviews a number of candidates to narrow the field prior to the selection of 
finalists. 
•
Presentation of Finalist Candidates – The recruiter provides a comprehensive evaluation of potential candidates 
and provides recommendations to the full City Council for the selection of finalists for interview. 
•
Candidate Interviews – The recruiter arranges for interviews and develops selection procedures for the finalist 
candidates. Structured interviews with the full City Council, Department Heads, and other stakeholders as 
determined by the City Council are held. The specific panel makeup and number of interview panels is developed 
by the City Council with assistance from the recruiter. 
•
Candidate Selection / Background Checks / Employment Contract – The recruiter assists the full City Council with 
finalist selection, background and reference checks, and the formulation and documentation of appropriate 
compensation and other employment arrangements. 
Executive Recruiter versus In-House Recruitment
Most California cities utilize an executive recruitment consulting firm to conduct City Manager recruitments. While our 
Human Resources Department staff has the technical expertise to conduct the recruitment in-house, the primary 
advantage to using an executive recruitment consulting firm is their ability to conduct significant targeted and confidential 
outreach to qualified applicants. Because these consultants conduct a number of executive searches for a variety of cities 
in the course of a year, they are familiar with the applicant pool and will be aware of viable candidates who would be 
interested in applying to be the City of San Mateo’s City Manager. Executive recruitment consulting firms with significant 
public sector experience maintain databases of potential applicants and have the skill and expertise to perform this vital 
outreach effort.
Participation in Preliminary Recruitment Activities
Historically, the City Council has chosen a subcommittee made up of two Council members, the current City Manager, and 
Human Resources to work with the recruiter on activities leading up to the presentation of finalist candidates and panel 
interviews of them. It has been an effective and efficient way to perform this work.
These preliminary activities include holding meetings with the recruiter regarding the search schedule and process, 
crafting the interview questions for the identified oral board panels, and deciding on the selection of finalists so the full 
City Council can hold oral board panel interviews with each of the finalists.  It is anticipated the recruitment process would 
take about six months to complete.
BUDGET IMPACT:
An executive recruiting firm and other associated costs would be covered in the Human Resources budget earmarked for 
the filling of executive positions. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Corbett Notice of Retirement Letter
Att 2 – San Mateo City Charter Section 3.04
Att 3 – “Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator”, prepared by the International City 
Managers’ Association (ICMA)
6 of 69

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Teresa Abrahamsohn, Director of Human Resources
tabrahamsohn@cityofsanmateo.org
650.522.7276
7 of 69

--- page 8 ---
330 W. 20%" Avenue

San Mateo, CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7000

CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Manager’s Office

January 17, 2023

San Mateo City Council
330 W. 20" Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash, and Councilmembers Loraine, Newsom, and Hedges:

| am writing to inform you of my decision to retire from public service with the City of San Mateo, effective June 30,
2023, close of business. This is a decision | have been contemplating for a while, and | have recently come to the
conclusion that it is time for me to move on to the next phase of my professional career. | wanted to let you know as
soon as | came to this decision so that you would have time to identify and appoint my successor prior to my
departure. If there is anything that | can do to assist in this process, | would be happy to do so.

It has been an honor and a pleasure to serve this community as city manager over the past 4+ years, and | am
tremendously proud of what we have accomplished during that time. | wanted to share with you just a few of the
many highlights of my time as city manager from my perspective:

e Managing through the COVID-19 pandemic to ensure City operations were able to continue to be provided
and to provide significant levels of new support, both financial and operational, to the community, particularly
our small businesses and our most vulnerable populations.

e Commencing operations of the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department and opening the new Fire Station 25.

e Transitioning the wastewater treatment plant and collections system from design/engineering into
construction and funding the majority of it through very low interest federal and state loans that are expected
to save the rate payers over $130 million.

¢ Completing a draft Housing Element and preparing it for Council approval (January 2023) and getting the
General Plan through the goals, policies, and actions phase with a draft General Plan expected in spring 2023.

¢ Completing the 25" Avenue grade separation project.

e Beginning the construction of the 225 unit all-affordable, all-electric Kiku Crossing housing project and opening
the 68 unit all-affordable Montara housing project.

e Issuing the debt and commencing the construction of the levee and pump station improvements that will pull
North Shoreview out of the FEMA flood zone.

¢ Completing 20+ miles of roadway rehabilitation/reconstruction.

e Partnering with the County and the cities of Redwood City, Daly City, and South San Francisco to establish a
pilot program to partner mental health clinicians with police officers in the field to better address mental
health crises.

e Appointing eight department heads.

e Successfully transitioning from an at-large election system to a by-district election system.

e Securing state and federal funding to make the structural retrofits at the Marina Library.

¢ Opening Borel Park.

e Increasing the fund balance in the General Fund by $23.3 million, or 26%, between fiscal year 2018-19 and
2021-22, despite the pandemic-induced recession. This positions the City well in the event recent interest rate
hikes lead to an economic downturn.

8 of 69


--- page 9 ---
None of these things could have been accomplished without our amazing City staff, led by an extraordinary group of
department heads. | am humbled to have had the opportunity to work with such a hard-working and dedicated group
of public servants. And finally, | appreciate the confidence the San Mateo City Council has had in me and the support
that it has given me. There’s no way these accomplishments happen without the vision and guidance of the City
Council.

| look forward to continuing to oversee the day-to-day operations of the City and making progress on Council strategic
objectives over the next five-and-a-half months, as well as helping to facilitate the transition to a new City Manager.

With gratitude,

‘Dred of-

Drew Corbett
City Manager

9 of 69


--- page 10 ---
1/19/23, 6:12 PM
City of San Mateo Law Library
about:blank
1/2
City of San Mateo Law Library / San Mateo City Charter. / ARTICLE III CITY MANAGER / 3.04
Powers and Duties of the City Manager.
3.04 Powers and Duties of the City Manager.
The city manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city. The city manager shall be
responsible to the council for the administration of all city affairs placed in his/her charge by or
under this Charter. The city manager shall have the following powers and duties:
(a) To direct and supervise the administration of all departments, offices and agencies of the city,
except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by law.
(b) To attend all council meetings, unless excused by the council or the mayor, and shall have
the right to take part in discussion but may not vote.
(c) To see that all laws, provisions of this Charter and acts of the council, subject to enforcement
by him/her or by officers subject to his/her direction and supervision, are faithfully executed.
(d) To prepare and submit the annual budget and capital program to the council.
(e) To submit to the council and make available to the public a report on the finances and
administrative activities of the city as of the end of each fiscal year.
(f) To make such other reports as the council may require concerning the operations of city
departments, offices and agencies subject to his/her direction and supervision.
(g) To keep the council fully advised as to the financial condition and future needs of the city and
make such recommendations to the council concerning the affairs of the city as he/she deems
desirable.
(h) To appoint such advisory boards as he/she may deem desirable to advise and assist him in
his/her work, provided such boards shall not receive any compensation.
(i) At any time in his/her discretion, and with or without notice, examine or cause to be examined
the conduct of any administrative officer or employee of the city.
10 of 69

--- page 11 ---
1/19/23, 6:12 PM
City of San Mateo Law Library
about:blank
2/2
(j) To perform such other duties as are specified in this Charter or may be required by the
council.
11 of 69

--- page 12 ---
Recruitment Guidelines  
for Selecting a Local  
Government Administrator 
January 2012
12 of 69

--- page 13 ---
13 of 69

--- page 14 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
i
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a  
Local Government Administrator 
©2012 by the International City/County Management Association. All rights reserved, including rights of 
reproduction and use in any form or by any means, including the making of copies by any photographic 
process, or by any electrical or mechanical device, printed, written, or oral or recording for sound or visual 
reproduction, or for use in any knowledge or retrieval system or device, unless permission in writing is 
obtained from the copyright proprietor.
About ICMA
ICMA advances professional local government worldwide. Its mission is to create excellence in local 
governance by developing and advancing professional management of local government. ICMA, the 
International City/County Management Association, provides member support; publications, data, and 
information; peer and results-oriented assistance; and training and professional development to more than 
9,000 city, town, and county experts and other individuals and organizations throughout the world. The 
management decisions made by ICMA’s members affect 185 million individuals living in thousands of 
communities, from small villages and towns to large metropolitan areas.
ICMA
777 North Capitol Street, NE
Suite 500
Washington, DC 20002-4201
202-289-ICMA (4262)
icma.org
14 of 69

--- page 15 ---
ii	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
15 of 69

--- page 16 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
iii
Preface
This Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator was first published 
just over ten years ago. While a lot has changed in ten years, the basic process for selecting 
a chief administrator1 has remained substantially the same. It still requires careful planning, 
astute evaluation of candidates, and a clear understanding of the relationship between the 
governing body2 and the chief administrator. In this edition, however, new focus has been given 
to the ICMA Code of Ethics­—the foundation of the local government management profession—
and the emergence of the Voluntary Credentialed Manager program. 
The Task Force on Recruitment Guidelines was formed in Fall 2010 and consisted of a very 
diverse group of ICMA members (many of whom have served on the ICMA Executive Board), 
Range Riders (former local government practitioners), younger members of the local govern-
ment management profession, and representatives from executive search firms. From its only 
face-to-face meeting at the 2010 ICMA Conference in San José, this Task Force embraced the 
challenge of updating the guidelines. Over the next several months, we formed work groups to 
focus on three key elements of the process: recruitment, selection, and negotiation. After count-
less conference calls and emails, the new and improved Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a 
Local Government Administrator emerged. 
The Task Force consisted of the following ICMA members:
Jane Bais-DiSessa
City Manager
Berkley, Michigan
Bill Baldridge
Executive Search Committee
Former City Manager
Michigan Municipal League
Troy Brown
Assistant City Manager
Livermore, California	
Garry Brumback 
Town Manager
Southington, Connecticut
Charlie Bush
City Administrator
Prosser, Washington
Mike Casey
Partner
Management Partners, Inc.
Cincinnati, Ohio
Tony Dahlerbruch
City Manager
Rolling Hills, California
Ed Daley
City Manager
Hopewell, Virginia
Tim Ernster
City Manager
Sedona, Arizona
Tom Fountaine
Borough Manager
State College, Pennsylvania
1 Chief administrator refers to a manager, administrator, or executive of a local government.
2 Governing body refers to the elected officers of a town, village, borough, township, city, county, or a legally constituted 
council of governments.
16 of 69

--- page 17 ---
iv	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
Peter Herlofsky
Former City Administrator
Farmington, Minnesota
Kay James
City Manager
Canandaigua, New York
Dave Krings
Former County Manager
Hamilton County, Ohio
Peoria County, Illinois
Debra Kurita
Former Assistant City Manager
San Bernardino, California
Juliana Maller
Deputy City Manager	
Park Ridge, Illinois
Bob Murray
President
Bob Murray & Associates
Roseville, California
Andy Pederson
Village Manager
Bayside, Wisconsin
Sheryl Sculley
City Manager
San Antonio, Texas
William Sequino
Town Manager
East Greenwich, Rhode Island
Paul Sharon
ICMA Range Rider, Florida
Former Town Manager
Ashland, Massachusetts
North Andover, Massachusetts
Scot Simpson	
City Administrator	
 
River Falls, Wisconsin
Charlene Stevens
City Administrator
Willmar, Minnesota
Larry Stevens
City Manager	
Edmond, Oklahoma
Bill Taylor
Field Services Manager
Municipal Association of South Carolina
Columbia, South Carolina
Michael Van Milligen
City Manager
Dubuque, Iowa
Melissa Vossmer
City Manager
Angleton, Texas
Michael Willis
General Manager 
Shellharbour City Council
New South Wales, Australia 
Special appreciation is extended to Tom Fountaine for serving as the negotiation section chair; 
Peter Herlofsky, selection section chair; and Debra Kurita, recruitment section chair. Debra 
Kurita deserves special recognition as she labored many hours converting writing styles and 
formats into one consistent, easy-to-read document. On behalf of ICMA, I am grateful for the 
active engagement of each Task Force member. Special thanks to Jared Dailey of the ICMA staff, 
who assisted in the overall coordination of the Task Force. 
It is the hope of the Task Force that this guidebook is promoted and distributed to those who 
are in the environment to hire a chief administrator for a community. To the governing body 
representatives who use this guidebook, we thank you for your service to your communities 
and wish you every success in finding the professional local government manager to help you 
guide your community to be the best it can be.
In closing, it has been my privilege to have served as the chair of this Task Force.
Bonnie Svrcek 
Deputy City Manager
Lynchburg, Virginia
17 of 69

--- page 18 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
v
Contents
1. 	 Introduction	
1
2. 	Managing the Organization during Recruitment	
2
Major Decision Point: Appointing an Interim Administrator  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Interim Management: The Governing Body’s Role  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
3. 	Initiating the Recruitment	
3
4. 	Conducting the Recruitment 	
4
In-House Expertise Method: Recruitments Conducted by the Local Government .  .  .  .  . . . . . 4
Outside Expertise Method: Recruitments Conducted with an Outside Party  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . 4
Hybrid Method: In-House in Conjunction with Outside Party .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . 5
5. 	Key Elements of the Recruitment Framework	
6
Major Decision Point: Development of an Administrator Profile .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Decision Point: Community Engagement in Administrator Profile  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . 6
Major Decision Point: Administrator Compensation Schedule .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Geographic Scope  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Advertising and Outreach Strategies .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
6. 	Key Elements of the Application Process	
10
The Application Form  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
The Local Government Information Packet .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Applicant Relations .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
7. 	The Role of the Media in the Recruitment Process	
12
8. 	The Selection Process	
13
Reviewing the Applications .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Major Decision Point: Determining the Candidates to Be Interviewed .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . 13
Interviewing the Candidates  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Major Decision Point: Making the Final Selection .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
9. 	The Negotiation Process	
17
Preparation for Negotiation  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Major Decision Point: Negotiating Compensation .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
10. The Transition Process	
19
Announcing the Selection  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Additional Elements  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
11. 	Conclusion	
20
Appendix A. ICMA Code of Ethics with Guidelines	
21
Appendix B. ICMA Guidelines for Compensation	
25
Appendix C. Professional Organizations to Consider Posting Position Vacancy	
27
Appendix D. Potential Interview Questions	
33
Appendix E. Relations with Applicants—Do’s and Don’ts 	
35
Appendix F. ICMA Model Employment Agreement	
36
Index 
43
18 of 69

--- page 19 ---
19 of 69

--- page 20 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
1
1. Introduction
“Thousands of decisions are made every day in cities, towns, and counties that determine our quality of life….  
Professional managers craft the plans and make the decisions that transform good communities into great ones.   
—International City/County Management Association (ICMA) 
Selecting a chief administrator is perhaps the most important decision  
that elected local officials will make for their community.
T
his guidebook was created by experienced, seasoned 
local government managers. It is designed to help 
elected officials, human resource professionals, local 
government staff, and professional executive search 
firms navigate the recruitment, selection, and negotia-
tion processes to find the individual who is best suited 
to serve as the chief administrator. The chief administra-
tor is like an orchestra conductor, directing and manag-
ing a team of professional, administrative, and field staff 
while interpreting and working toward the goals and 
objectives of the community’s elected officials.
This guidebook offers best practices that will be 
most meaningful to you and your community in select-
ing a chief administrator. Because all communities, 
governing bodies, and chief administrators are not 
the same, this is not a “one size fits all” guidebook. 
Nevertheless, the local government managers who cre-
ated this document are firmly committed to the ICMA 
Code of Ethics, which is a non-negotiable foundation 
for professional local government management, and 
strongly recommends that the hiring governing body 
use the Code of Ethics as a tool in its search for a 
professional local government manager. Herein, we 
explain recruitment choices and the selection pro-
cesses to fit the unique size, culture, and dynamics of 
an individual community. Topics include provisions for 
interim management; the spectrum of resources avail-
able to assist in the recruiting process; applications, 
communications with applicants, and interviews; 
compensation; and transition. The appendices provide 
the ICMA Code of Ethics, ICMA Compensation Guide-
lines, a directory of professional organizations that 
are likely places advertise for a chief administrator, 
potential interview questions, the do’s and don’ts of 
applicant relations, and the ICMA Model Employment 
Agreement. Using this guidebook can make recruit-
ing and selecting a new chief administrator a positive, 
enjoyable, and unifying experience for you and your 
colleagues as elected officials.
As you use this resource, you will see highlighted 
in the margins important points for selecting the best 
individual for the position. 
When faced with an upcoming or immediate 
vacancy in the chief administrator position, the 
governing body must quickly address the following 
questions: 
■
■What should we do to ensure that the affairs of 
the local government are properly administered 
until a new chief administrator is selected and on 
board? 
■
■How do we conduct a recruitment to fill the 
vacancy?
The following material provides tips and guide-
lines on the processes that the governing body needs 
to employ to successfully answer these questions. It 
identifies and discusses the key elements of man-
aging the organization between the time that one 
chief administrator departs and another arrives, as 
well as the major decision points in conducting the 
recruitment, selection, and negotiation processes for 
appointing the new chief administrator.
Professional local government managers are  
committed to 
■
■
Serving as stewards of representative democracy
■
■
Practicing the highest standards of honesty and integrity in 
local governance, as expressed through ICMA’s Code of Ethics
■
■
Building sustainable communities as a core responsibility
■
■
Networking and exchanging knowledge and skills across inter-
national boundaries
■
■
Lifelong learning and professional development
■
■
Financial integrity and responsibility for management of the 
community
■
■
 Implementing best management practices.
20 of 69

--- page 21 ---
2	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
2. Managing the Organization during Recruitment
T
he governing body must act thoughtfully and 
deliberately in determining how to ensure that 
the operations of the local government are properly 
managed during the period before a permanent chief 
administrator is selected and on the job. When faced 
with a vacancy in the chief administrator position, the 
governing body needs time to carefully consider the 
qualities, expertise, and experience it hopes to find 
in a new administrator and to use the agreed-upon 
criteria to develop the administrator profile. It then 
needs sufficient time to recruit and select the best pos-
sible successor who meets these criteria. While that is 
happening, however, it is important that the governing 
body identify a professional who will act as the chief 
administrator and properly manage local government 
operations while the recruitment process is underway.
Major Decision Point: Appointing an 
Interim Administrator 
If the vacancy is the result of a planned retirement, 
the governing body may consider asking the current 
administrator to continue leading the organization for 
a short period of time on a contract basis. Alterna-
tively, the governing body may elect to consult with 
the outgoing administrator regarding possible staff 
members who could fill this role.
In some cases, the members of the governing 
body may agree that they have confidence in a spe-
cific staff person. If there is an assistant administra-
tor, for example, the governing body may appoint 
that person as interim administrator. If this assistant 
will be considered for the permanent position, the 
appointment as interim administrator will provide 
the elected officials with an opportunity to observe 
firsthand how the assistant handles the job. Another 
option is to appoint an assistant or department direc-
tor (who will not be a candidate for the position); 
someone who is mature, seasoned, competent and 
respected by fellow employees. 
Should the governing body determine that there 
is no one on staff who it can or wants to appoint as 
the interim administrator, it may decide to retain the 
services of a retired administrator or an administra-
tor who is between jobs. State associations, munici-
pal leagues, or ICMA Range Riders are resources for 
identifying potential interim administrators. 
The governing body should publicly announce 
the appointment of the interim chief administrator. 
Regardless of who is appointed, it should be made 
clear to all local government officials and staff that the 
interim chief administrator is responsible for imple-
menting governing body policy and overseeing opera-
tions. It should also be made clear that if the interim 
administrator is ultimately selected to fill the position 
permanently, it will be because that person has proven 
to be the best among all the applicants. 
Interim Management: The Governing 
Body’s Role 
Obviously, the local government must continue to 
operate during the interim between the departure of the 
current chief administrator and the appointment of the 
new one. The governing body and interim management 
team should do whatever is necessary to make sure 
that important projects and service delivery continue 
to move forward. It is important to reiterate that the 
governing body has the responsibility to make it clear 
to the staff and community that the interim administra-
tor is in charge of the organization’s operations.
The governing body should consider deferring new 
initiatives, when possible, until the new administrator 
is appointed and on the job. After all, to ensure effec-
tive administrative leadership in the future, it is desir-
able that the new administrator be involved in as many 
policy decisions as possible. Just filling a vacant depart-
ment director position, for example, is an opportunity 
for the new administrator to begin building an admin-
istrative team. In fact, such an opportunity can be used 
to pique the interest of potential applicants during the 
recruitment process. 
Although it is not desirable for the governing body 
to immerse itself in the administrative affairs of the local 
government, its members should be briefed about cur-
rent organizational problems and the status of impor-
tant projects before the current administrator leaves, if 
possible. In this way, the governing body may monitor 
progress on important matters, provide direction, and set 
priorities for the person selected as interim administrator. 
21 of 69

--- page 22 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
3
T
he governing body should initiate the recruitment 
process immediately after the official decision 
has been made regarding resignation, retirement, or 
termination. Failure to do so can potentially generate 
rumors within the community by various interested 
parties who may attempt to exert pressure on mem-
bers to quickly fill the vacancy. The members of the 
governing body must bear in mind that an impulsive 
response to this pressure can be divisive for them and 
can damage their credibility. They must take charge of 
the recruitment: they must determine the process that 
will be used to recruit and select the best administra-
tor, and make that decision clear to all concerned.
There may be a number of special circumstances 
that influence the approach and timing used to recruit 
a new chief administrator. The following examples 
provide some tips for addressing those circumstances:
■
■Vacancy due to the chief administrator’s termina-
tion or resignation under pressure. If the position is 
vacant because the former administrator was termi-
nated or forced to resign, neither the local govern-
ment nor the former administrator will benefit from 
a public quarrel. It is far better for all concerned to 
mutually decide on a timetable for the administra-
tor’s departure. If this departure is handled profes-
sionally and in a mutually respectful manner, there 
is less likelihood for controversy and ill will to arise 
around the issues of the separation. Further, and from 
a recruiting standpoint, handling a difficult situation 
well will enhance the local government’s image and 
thus its ability to attract quality applicants.
■
■Vacancy occurring prior to an election. Occa-
sionally, a governing body will delay initiating 
the recruitment process because an election is 
pending. But even in the face of an election, it 
should prepare for the process by developing the 
administrator profile (described in full later in this 
document) and determining how the recruitment 
will be conducted so as to reduce the time lapse 
between the departure of one administrator and 
arrival of another.
■
■Vacancies due to newly adopted council-manager 
form of government. If the position is vacant 
because voters either just approved the formation of 
or adopted a change to the council-manager form of 
government, the beginning of the search for a new 
chief administrator will depend on when the change 
becomes effective. Depending on the circumstances, 
it may be possible to have applications on file by 
the time the new members of the governing body 
are sworn in. In any case, the recruitment process 
should be initiated as soon as possible.
3. Initiating the Recruitment
22 of 69

--- page 23 ---
4	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
4. Conducting the Recruitment 
T
here are several major elements and decision 
points in the recruitment process. This section 
of the handbook provides tips and guidelines for the 
governing body in determining the approach to use in 
this part of the process.
The governing body has three major choices for 
conducting the recruitment. It can: 
■
■Conduct the recruitment in-house 
■
■Retain an outside party to conduct the recruitment
■
■Use a hybrid approach and conduct the recruit-
ment in conjunction with an outside party. 
In-House Expertise Method: Recruitments 
Conducted by the Local Government
If the governing body chooses to conduct the recruit-
ment in-house, it should be with the understanding 
that the task will be time-consuming and complex. 
The governing body may also have to decide whether 
to conduct the process as a body, delegate the respon-
sibility to the chairperson, or assign the task to a 
committee of its members. If it elects to delegate the 
responsibility to one or more of its members, it must 
be sure to select people who are well respected and 
have the time to provide the necessary leadership and 
follow-through. 
To provide support in the process, the governing 
body should seek the assistance of the local gov-
ernment’s human resources officer and municipal 
attorney. In conducting the recruitment in-house, 
staff can work with the governing body to develop 
the administrator profile and design an effective and 
legal recruitment and selection process. Staff can also 
be responsible for the administrative tasks of placing 
advertisements, collecting résumés, and scheduling 
interviews. However, the governing body or its del-
egated members will approve the selection of the final 
candidates and conduct the interviews, and, of course, 
the body as a whole will make the final selection. In 
this scenario, staff serve as a resource throughout the 
entire recruitment process. 
Outside Expertise Method: Recruitments 
Conducted with an Outside Party
The governing body can retain an outside party to 
conduct the recruitment. In some cases the interim 
or a retired administrator may be asked to coordinate 
the recruitment process. More often, however, the 
governing body will contract with a firm that special-
izes in providing executive search assistance. 
When using an executive search firm, the gov-
erning body plays an active role in the process. It 
develops the administrator profile, approves the 
selection of the applicants, interviews the candidates, 
and, of course, makes the final selection. The benefit 
of using an executive search firm is the expertise that 
the firm brings to the process and its ability to coor-
dinate the recruitment.
Typically the executive search firm begins by 
meeting with the elected officials either individually 
or as a group to help them develop the administrator 
profile. It is the firm’s responsibility to facilitate these 
discussions and help the governing body reach a con-
sensus. After this matter has been settled, the firm 
coordinates the overall process and assumes respon-
sibility for all tasks until it is time for the elected 
body to select and interview candidates. During this 
process, the firm updates the governing body, keep-
ing the members informed of its progress. As the firm 
will be responsible for all the administrative details, 
the role of the staff is usually limited to providing 
information about the local government and coordi-
nating with the firm.
Governing bodies that use an outside service 
should ensure that a reputable firm, one familiar 
with the special requirements of local government 
management, is selected. The experience of the firm 
should be checked through contact with references—
in particular, representatives of local governments 
that have used its services. Further, the governing 
body should be fully aware of the costs and benefits 
when deciding whether to use outside expertise.
23 of 69

--- page 24 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
5
Hybrid Method: In-House in Conjunction 
with Outside Party
In the third alternative, the governing body can con-
duct the recruitment in-house and supplement the 
process, where necessary, with assistance from an 
executive search firm or another outside source, such 
as an the ICMA Range Rider.
In some cases, the governing body may seek 
assistance at the beginning of the process to facilitate 
the discussion, develop the administrator profile, and 
determine the structure of the recruitment process. 
In other cases, local government officials may initiate 
the process in-house by developing the profile and 
advertising for the vacancy, and they may then use 
an outside source to help review résumés, conduct 
reference checks, and structure the interview pro-
cess. This alternative may be most appropriate if 
cost is a concern; however, because it also presents 
opportunities for lapses in communication, the exact 
responsibilities of each party must be clarified in a 
written agreement. 
24 of 69

--- page 25 ---
6	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
5. Key Elements of the Recruitment Framework
R
egardless of the method chosen for conducting the 
recruitment, the governing body must develop a 
framework for the recruitment process. It must agree 
at the outset on a number of key issues critical to the 
success of the recruitment, including criteria for the 
administrator profile, compensation range and compo-
nents, and timing and geographic scope of the search. 
Major Decision Point: Development of an 
Administrator Profile
The most significant decision point for the governing 
body in the recruitment of a new administrator is to 
define what the members are looking for—that is, to cre-
ate the administrator profile. The profile will encompass 
those qualities, characteristics, experience, and areas of 
expertise that would be found in an ideal candidate. Only 
by considering how applicants compare and measure 
against one another and, of course, against the estab-
lished criteria, can the governing body be sure that the 
candidate it appoints has the appropriate combination of 
work experience, management experience, and leader-
ship style to be successful in the position. 
The governing body should begin with a survey 
of its needs and those of the organization. To deter-
mine the needs of the organization, the governing 
body should invite input from the department direc-
tors. Items to be considered include size of the local 
government, composition of the community, services 
provided, and overall objectives and priorities of the 
governing body. The work experience, skills, and 
expertise of the candidates must relate to these factors. 
The governing body should also consider both the 
“nuts-and-bolts” skills and abilities, such as budget-
ing, human resources, and technological know-how, 
and the “soft” skills, such as the ability to work with 
people and to lead an organization. These criteria will 
form the basis for reviewing résumés, selecting final-
ists, and making a hiring decision.
Unless the governing body can come to consen-
sus on these criteria, it may be difficult to find the 
right candidate. By reaching consensus, however, 
the governing body will be better able to inform 
the applicants on what it is looking for in a chief 
administrator. 
Developing the administrator profile helps the 
governing body define its needs and establishes the 
groundwork for generating a rich pool of applicants 
with the skills and abilities to address the needs of the 
governing body, the community, and the organization.
Decision Point: Community Engagement in 
Administrator Profile
The governing body must decide whether to engage 
community members or committees in the recruit-
ment process. In most cases, the local government 
assumes responsibility for the recruitment and 
conducts the process without involving members of 
the community. 
In some cases, however, a governing body may 
seek input from community members or committees 
when developing the administrator profile. This not 
only allows the community to be part of the process 
but also may provide the governing body with a bet-
ter understanding of the role of the administrator. 
Depending on the method that the governing body 
uses to conduct the recruitment, gathering input from 
the community would be facilitated by staff, the out-
side recruiter, or the elected officials.
Although community input will be valuable, 
the governing body will ultimately determine the 
qualities and experiences to be incorporated into the 
administrator profile, and this should be clearly com-
municated to the community. It is, after all, to the 
governing body that the new administrator will be 
directly reporting. 
The ICMA Voluntary Credentialing Program recognizes 
professional local government managers qualified by  
a combination of education and experience,  
adherence to high standards of integrity, and an 
assessed commitment to lifelong learning and 
professional development. For more information, visit  
www.icma.org/en/icma/members/credentialing.
25 of 69

--- page 26 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
7
Major Decision Point: Administrator 
Compensation
Another critical element to be considered at the outset 
of the recruitment process is administrator compensa-
tion. It is important for the local government to have 
some general understanding of the acceptable salary 
range, but it is also important to have some flexibility. 
Some local governments identify a range; others pro-
vide the salary of the current administrator as an indi-
cator; and still others may leave the salary open, to be 
commensurate with the new hire’s background and 
experience. The governing body will also determine 
other components of the administrator’s compensa-
tion, such as deferred compensation, vacation accrual, 
and professional development allowances.
It is important for the governing body to make 
clear that it wants the best administrator it can find. In 
general, potential applicants for the position will want 
to have some indication of the salary range and com-
pensation package. But that will be only one of many 
factors that they will use in deciding whether to apply. 
ICMA has developed compensation guidelines for 
negotiating salary and benefits for local government 
positions. These guidelines are provided in Appendix 
B and are also available online at www.icma.org/ 
compensationguidelines. The actual compensation 
package will be negotiated with the final candidate at 
the conclusion of the recruitment process.
Schedule
Since top candidates often view applying for a new 
job as a major career decision, it is important that they 
have adequate time to consider the opportunity, dis-
cuss it with their families, and prepare an appropriate 
résumé. Similarly, the governing body, staff, or execu-
tive recruitment firm needs sufficient time to review 
résumés and conduct reference checks to ensure that 
good candidates are not overlooked and that finalists 
meet the desired qualifications. It cannot be overem-
phasized that the recruitment should move forward 
expeditiously while also allowing adequate time for a 
thorough and comprehensive search.
The timing of the recruitment can sometimes be 
affected by publication deadlines, which are impor-
tant in terms of properly advertising the vacant posi-
tion. An ideal timetable would provide at least sixty 
days from the start of the recruitment to the deadline 
for submitting résumés; thirty days to review résu-
més, conduct background checks, interview candi-
dates, and make a final selection; and at least thirty 
days for the new administrator to relocate. To maxi-
mize flexibility in the process, the governing body 
may advertise the position with an “open until filled” 
statement.
Profile: Impact of Special Circumstances:
As the governing body decides on the criteria for the administrator 
profile, three types of situations should receive special consideration: 
1.	
A local government that has just changed its form of govern-
ment will ordinarily need an administrator who can inspire local 
government officials with the enthusiasm needed to implement 
the new structure. A first administrator in a new structure 
should be adept at public relations and at establishing relation-
ships with incumbent officials and employees. 
2.	 When an administrator has been dismissed or has resigned 
under pressure, the governing body tends to look for strengths 
in areas in which the outgoing administrator showed weak-
nesses. There are dangers, however, in overcompensating 
for qualities that have led to dissatisfaction. If the outgoing 
administrator gave too much freedom to subordinates, for 
example, suddenly changing to a strong disciplinarian might 
result in antagonisms that would only lead to further prob-
lems. Sometimes a new administrator will be confronted with 
major problems that must be addressed immediately. If such a 
situation is anticipated, the governing body should make these 
circumstances known to any applicant who is being seriously 
considered. 
3.	 When a popular administrator retires or moves to another local 
government, the governing body may ask for this person’s 
assistance in the search for a successor. However, the gov-
erning body should not overlook the possible need for new 
strengths or different qualities.
Governing bodies need to be very alert to the dangers of either hiring a clone of the outgoing  
administrator, assuming that person is leaving on good terms, or a polar opposite, assuming that person  
is leaving on less than good terms. The importance of evaluating the current needs of the governing  
body and locality cannot be overstated.
26 of 69

--- page 27 ---
8	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
Geographic Scope 
Another factor to consider in determining the recruit-
ment framework is the geographic scope: should the 
search be nationwide, statewide, or regional? A broad 
geographic search may attract more applicants who 
have demonstrated an ability to manage in a complex 
urban environment. On the other hand, a focus on 
the local government’s state or region may provide 
applicants who have a better understanding of and 
orientation to local problems, legal issues, financing 
alternatives, and similar matters. In any event, the 
new administrator will provide a fresh perspective on 
the issues and challenges facing the community and 
the organization. 
From the applicant’s perspective, it is assumed that 
the local government is looking for the best candidate 
and that all résumés, regardless of where the applicant 
currently works, will be reviewed carefully. The deter-
mination of the scope of the recruitment will influence 
the advertising and outreach strategies used.
Advertising and Outreach Strategies
In order to generate a sufficient and diverse pool 
of qualified applicants, the governing body should 
develop advertising and outreach strategies.
Advertising Campaign  It is to the advantage of the 
local government to ensure that every professional 
who might have an interest in the vacant position is 
aware of the opportunity to apply for it. Therefore, it 
is important that the advertising campaign be compre-
hensive and include a carefully worded advertisement. 
This does not mean, however, that the campaign has 
to be extensive or expensive. Most local governments, 
for example, avoid advertising for an administrator 
in general circulation newspapers unless there is a 
local requirement to the contrary; this is an expensive 
form of advertising that does not reach the targeted 
audience. 
More effective vehicles for advertising for chief 
administrators can be found with organizations that 
are directly related to local government. In addition to 
ICMA, the following sources should be considered: 
■
■National League of Cities
■
■National Association of Counties
■
■National Association of County Administrators
■
■National Forum for Black Public Administrators
■
■International Hispanic Network
■
■American Society for Public Administration.
Resources at the state level include state munici-
pal leagues, county associations, and municipal 
assistants organizations. Many of these organiza-
tions publish newsletters or magazines and have a 
online presence; the subscribers to these resources 
are the men and women in the public administra-
tion and local government management professions. 
Addresses and websites for these resources are listed 
in Appendix C.
Local governments have some flexibility when pre-
paring and placing advertisements, but at a minimum, 
the advertisement should include the following: 
■
■Title of the vacant position 
■
■Name of the local government 
■
■Population of the local government 
■
■Amounts of the operating and capital budgets
■
■Number of full-time employees
■
■Services provided
■
■Statement regarding the compensation package
■
■Filing deadline, including any special items of 
information desired such as current salary and 
work-related references
■
■A brief description of key areas of interest and 
desirable experience and qualifications (or a refer-
ence or email link to the administrator profile)
■
■Indication of whether residency is required
■
■A timetable indicating the principal steps and time-
frame for the overall recruitment
■
■Where and to whom to send résumés with a nota-
tion as to whether email submittals are acceptable 
or required
■
■Website of the local government.
It should be noted that some publications per-
mit the use of display ads that incorporate the local 
government logo and/or graphics within an innovative 
format. 
In addition to the advertisement, the governing 
body, through the staff or the executive recruiter, will 
usually develop a printed brochure that describes the 
community, the organization, and the position, as well 
as providing the administrator profile and the govern-
ing body’s key goals and objectives.
Outreach Strategy  While advertising can gener-
ate outstanding applicants and the local govern-
ment should look closely at all received résumés, the 
governing body should supplement the advertising 
campaign by identifying an outreach strategy to ensure 
that the search extends to the widest possible pool of 
27 of 69

--- page 28 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
9
qualified applicants. The outreach strategy may have 
a number of approaches for attracting external can-
didates, encouraging superior internal candidates to 
apply, and promoting diversity in the applicant pool. 
For External Applicants  Useful sources of informa-
tion about potential external candidates include the 
current administrator, former and retired administra-
tors, members of the local government, local govern-
ment officials in adjacent communities, executive 
directors of state leagues, directors of university public 
administration programs, leaders of regional municipal 
assistants, and ICMA Range Riders.
When determining an outreach strategy, the gov-
erning body, in conjunction with staff or the recruiter, 
could consider sending letters to identified individu-
als advising them of the opening and inviting them to 
send a résumé if they are interested in the position. 
The correspondence should include a basic package 
of information describing the local government and 
the vacant position. For the purposes of confidential-
ity, all correspondence should either be sent to the 
applicant’s private residence or marked “Personal and 
Confidential” if sent to the workplace.
Shortly after the letter has been mailed, a follow-
up telephone call should be made to confirm that the 
correspondence was received, assure the recipient that 
it was not a form letter, indicate why the position may 
be a good career opportunity, and answer questions. 
The same deadline for submitting résumés should be 
used in both the advertisements and the supplemental 
letters of invitation. 
For Internal Applicants  The local government 
should be sure to inform its employees of the vacancy 
and of how and when to apply. The governing body 
itself may directly invite one or more employees, such 
as the assistant city administrator or a department 
director, to submit a résumé, or it may do so indirectly 
through staff or the executive recruiter. Whether in-
house applicants are solicited or apply on their own, it 
is important that they be treated in the same manner 
as other applicants. 
It should be made clear that if an in-house appli-
cant is ultimately selected, it is because the governing 
body has determined that the candidate was the best 
choice of all those who applied. While most applicants 
will receive written notification of their status, the 
governing body may decide to talk personally with 
any in-house applicant who was not selected in order 
to provide good communication with staff, main-
tain morale, and help ensure an orderly and positive 
transition. 
For Diversity of Applicants  Development of a 
strategy to generate a diverse applicant pool helps 
to ensure a broad cross-section of candidates. A rich 
pool with applicants of both sexes and from different 
races and ethnic backgrounds is beneficial because the 
chosen candidate will likely bring a different per-
spective to the organization. Having diversity within 
a local government can enhance the organization’s 
overall responsiveness to an increasingly more diverse 
spectrum of residents, improve its relations with sur-
rounding communities, increase its ability to manage 
change, and expand its creativity. 
In addition, the governing body may develop an 
outreach strategy to encourage the participation of 
applicants from diverse professional backgrounds. 
Organizations large and small use executive members 
of their staff on various levels, and there is often a 
significant wealth of knowledge to be found among 
candidates who have had successful careers as assis-
tant city administrators, as department heads, and in 
other management positions.
28 of 69

--- page 29 ---
10	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
6. Key Elements of the Application Process
T
he application process is the point where effective 
screening of candidates begins. For this part of 
the recruitment to be successful, the governing body 
must proceed carefully and with considerable thought. 
This section addresses issues such as whether to use a 
standardized application form; how to provide poten-
tial applicants with key information about the posi-
tion and the local government; and the importance 
of establishing and maintaining good relations with 
applicants. High-quality applicants are more likely 
to pursue the vacancy if the local government can 
portray itself as a well-run, organized, and efficient 
organization. 
The Application Form 
Most local governments prefer to ask applicants to 
submit a résumé in whatever format the applicant 
determines will be most effective, rather than a 
standardized application form. For the applicant, this 
approach provides flexibility to present past work 
experience in a way that relates directly to the posi-
tion in question. At the same time, it permits the local 
government to see how the applicant organizes and 
presents material in a written format. The manner in 
which materials are prepared can be an indication of 
real interest in the position. 
A standardized application form is not recom-
mended in recruitments for the governing body’s top 
administrative professional. If one is used, however, 
it should be easy to complete, and the information 
requested should be relevant to the vacant position. 
Regardless of the form of application, the applicant 
should be required to submit a cover letter and résumé.
The Local Government Information Packet
Serious applicants will not submit a résumé for con-
sideration until they have done their homework and 
have satisfied themselves that the position represents 
a good career opportunity. Often they will seek infor-
mation from local government officials about the com-
munity, the organization, and the position. 
This is one of the first contacts that will form an 
impression of the local government on the poten-
tial applicant. If the impression created is that the 
recruitment is well organized, that the local govern-
ment officials know what they are looking for and are 
consistent in the message, and that sufficient infor-
mation about the locality is easily obtained, potential 
applicants are more likely to form a positive image 
of the position and the governing body in deciding 
whether to apply.
To help disseminate the same information to all 
applicants, the governing body could put together a 
packet of information that includes:
1.	 A copy of the outreach brochure or other docu-
ments that provide the criteria for the position, 
indicating key objectives and priorities and the 
administrator profile
2.	 Ordinance or charter requirements if they contain 
significant or unusual provisions regarding the 
position
3.	 Summary information about the local government, 
including organizational structure, personnel prac-
tices, number of employees, services provided, and 
budget data
4.	 Information about the community in the form of a 
chamber of commerce brochure or similar publica-
tion, if such is attractively prepared and available
5.	 Websites that contain information on the local 
government and community
6.	 The name, phone number, and e-mail address of a 
contact person. 
Applicant Relations
Appendix E in this handbook provides some basic 
do’s and don’ts regarding applicant relations and 
the recruitment process. The two key areas that are 
important to stress are candidate status notification 
and confidentiality. 
Two critical elements of applicant relations  
are important to stress: keeping the candidates 
informed of the status of the process and  
maintaining confidentiality.  
29 of 69

--- page 30 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
11
Candidate Status Notification  As a rule, it is 
important to engage in the simple and courteous steps 
of acknowledging résumés as they are received and 
of notifying applicants of their status as the recruit-
ment proceeds. Prompt acknowledgment of résumés 
is one indication that the process is being handled in 
a businesslike manner, and it can add to the appli-
cant’s positive impression of the organization. This 
acknowledgment also should inform the applicant of 
the recruitment timetable. Unless there are unusual 
or unanticipated delays, this response should be suf-
ficient until applicants are actually notified as to their 
final status. To maintain confidentiality, all correspon-
dence should be directed to the applicant’s home, not 
business address.
Additionally, if special circumstances arise (such as 
a recall election) that might cause a delay in either the 
recruitment or the selection process, it is important to 
communicate any changes in the established schedule 
to all applicants.
Similarly, notifying all applicants as to their status, 
even if they are not selected as finalists, is a basic 
courtesy that will affect how the candidate views the 
local government.
Maintaining Confidentiality  Confidentiality is an 
important consideration in any recruitment. Present 
job security and long-term career opportunities could 
be jeopardized if an applicant’s interest in another 
position is made public prematurely. While applicants 
realize that the local government will want to contact 
their current employers to conduct background checks 
and assess their job performance, they typically prefer 
to wait until it is clear that they are going to be con-
sidered as finalists who will be invited to the second 
interviews for the position. 
The governing body should determine, at the out-
set, the extent to which the recruitment process will 
be confidential. The governing body, in consultation 
with the local government’s attorney, should decide 
the level of confidentiality due to the varying open 
record and disclosure statutes between the states. If 
applicants’ names are likely to be disclosed at any 
point, potential applicants should be advised so that 
they may take it into account in deciding whether to 
pursue the vacancy. 
From a recruiting standpoint, assurance of con-
fidentiality will result in more applications being 
submitted, particularly from those who are currently 
employed elsewhere. As confidentiality is important to 
both parties, such assurances should be honored, and 
applicants should be given adequate time to notify 
their current employers before those employers are 
contacted by the recruiting local government.
There is no faster way to damage the image of the local government and to lose good applicants than to violate the 
trust or assurance that was given regarding confidentiality. 
30 of 69

--- page 31 ---
12	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
7. The Role of the Media in the Recruitment Process
M
embers of the media will obviously have an inter-
est in the recruitment process and their involve-
ment will be dictated in part by state law and in part by 
tradition. At the outset, local government officials should 
brief the media on the timing and steps involved in the 
overall process. After the deadline has passed for submit-
ting résumés, the governing body may decide to brief the 
media and the community on the overall response. 
As the confidentiality of résumés is a major con-
cern in any recruitment and can significantly affect the 
number and quality of résumés received, applicants 
should be apprised of any applicable state laws in this 
area, and the governing body, with advice from the 
local government’s attorney, should determine what 
information will and will not be made available to the 
media.
31 of 69

--- page 32 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
13
8. The Selection Process
O
nce the deadline for submitting résumés has 
passed and all applications have been received, 
the selection process begins. Principal steps are as 
follows:
■
■Reviewing the applications
■
■Determining which candidates will be interviewed
■
■Interviewing the candidates
■
■Making the final selection.
Reviewing the Applications
The selection process begins with a review of the 
applications and résumés that have been submitted. 
Depending on how the governing body has chosen to 
conduct the recruitment, the participants involved in 
this initial review may be the body as a whole, the chief 
elected officer, a subcommittee of the governing body, 
the staff, or the executive recruitment firm. Alterna-
tively, some local governments have used a panel of 
chief administrators from other local governments to 
serve as a screening panel. Regardless of who performs 
the screening, the objective of the initial review is to 
identify those candidates who best reflect the qualities, 
characteristics, experience, and areas of expertise that 
were defined in the administrator profile. 
Major Decision Point: Determining the 
Candidates to Be Interviewed
The determination of the candidates to be interviewed 
is a significant decision point in the selection process. 
The objective here is to narrow the total group of 
applicants to a smaller group that will continue to the 
next step. 
Initial Background Check  After the group of appli-
cants has been narrowed down to those who meet the 
qualifications described in the administrator profile, 
the list may be further refined by confirming educa-
tional credentials and conducting online checks. Such 
reviews should not violate the confidentiality of the 
applicant pool. For online checks, it is important to 
consider the source and avoid drawing hasty conclu-
sions from these sources. 
Selection of Candidates  After the review of the 
résumés and the initial background check, the par-
ticipants in this process should meet with the govern-
ing body as a whole to recommend which applicants 
should be invited to an interview. The chosen group 
of candidates should be large enough to expose the 
governing body to an array of personalities. In most 
cases, five to ten candidates should be selected. The 
governing body may also establish a secondary list of 
candidates who could be invited to the interview if 
one or more of the first group of candidates decline or 
are unable to continue with the process.
Informing the Candidates  Once candidates have 
been selected, the governing body representative, the 
staff, or the executive recruiter should contact the 
each candidate by phone and do the following:
1.	 Inform the candidate that he or she has been 
selected to be interviewed and offer congratula-
tions (the candidate should be made to feel that 
the governing body is pleased to have reviewed 
his or her résumé). At the same time, confirm the 
candidate’s continuing interest in the position. 
2.	 Advise the candidate of: the nature of the interview 
process, including date and time, number of other 
candidates, whether there are any in-house candi-
dates, and when a decision is expected to be made. 
Indicate that all the details and information will 
be confirmed in a written correspondence. If email 
is to be used for this correspondence, confirm the 
candidate’s email address.
3.	 As described in the section on applicant relations, 
the governing body should have already determined 
the extent to which the recruitment process will be 
confidential. At this point, the candidate should be 
advised if the names of candidates are to be made 
public and be given the opportunity to withdraw.
4.	 Confirm that the candidate has received the infor-
mation package provided during the application 
process. Indicate that a supplemental package with 
more detailed information will be provided directly 
to the candidate’s home in advance of the inter-
view. The supplemental package may include:
32 of 69

--- page 33 ---
14	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
■
■A list of governing body members and their 
occupations
■
■Copies of meeting minutes from the past several 
months
■
■The general or comprehensive plan and land use 
maps
■
■The most recent budget
■
■A recent bond prospectus
■
■Any other material that would be of particular rel-
evance, given the goals and objectives of the local 
government and the criteria for the position.
As an alternative to a paper package of informa-
tion, the candidates can be directed to the locality’s 
website for such information. 
5.	 Confirm local government policy on reimburse-
ment of expenses incurred in conjunction with 
the interview. Many local governments reimburse 
candidates for all out-of-pocket expenses, including 
reasonable transportation, room, and board. (“Rea-
sonable” is intended to eliminate first-class airline 
tickets, four-star hotels, and gourmet restaurants.)
Such reimbursement of expenses is another way 
that the local government can demonstrate its interest 
in the candidate. It reinforces the positive nature of 
the recruitment process and is sometimes a factor in 
whether the candidate is able to attend. Should there 
be strong reluctance on the part of the governing body 
to reimburse all expenses, the local government can 
share expenses with the candidate or can agree to 
reimburse all expenses incurred after the first trip.
The local government staff can offer to handle 
all reservations, transportation, and related matters, 
but this can be cumbersome and time-consuming. In 
most cases, the local government confirms the time 
and place and lets the candidate make his or her own 
arrangements. The candidates usually prefer this 
approach as well.
Interviewing the Candidates
Most local governments use the interview approach 
for selecting the chief administrator. In this approach, 
the governing body will meet as a whole with each 
individual candidate. As the initial interview is usually 
limited to an hour, a second interview with one or 
more of the finalists is generally incorporated into the 
process.
Initial Interview  The following provides important 
guidelines for conducting the initial interview.
Structure of the Interview  The interview process 
should be well organized in a comfortable setting for 
both parties that invites open and relaxed discussions. 
This element of the process is generally not considered 
a public meeting, although the governing body, staff, 
or executive recruiter should consult with the city’s 
legal advisor to ensure that all requisite notices are 
sent and other legal requirements are met.
All members of the governing body should par-
ticipate in the interview with one member, usually 
the chair, designated as the discussion leader. This 
interview should last at least an hour as it is difficult 
to pursue a range of questions in less time. Further, all 
candidates anticipate and deserve an opportunity to 
present their qualifications to the governing body and 
describe their interest in the position. It is important 
to realize that the interview process not only provides 
the governing body with an opportunity to improve 
its knowledge of the candidate but also influences the 
candidate’s interest in the position. 
As part of the initial interview, the governing body 
may want to include a comprehensive tour of the com-
munity. A trusted senior staff person would be a likely 
tour guide.
Content of the Interview Questions  During the first 
interview, the governing body will question the candi-
date about a variety of matters, such as overall work 
experience, specific accomplishments, career objectives, 
alternative approaches to practical problems faced by 
the local government, and similar matters. A list of 
potential questions is provided in Appendix D.
The interview also gives the candidate an oppor-
tunity to evaluate the governing body as a group and 
to ask questions. An important issue to discuss during 
the interview is the governing body’s working relation-
ship with the administrator, clarifying all roles and 
responsibilities.
During the formal and any informal meetings 
between the governing body and the candidates, 
discussions and questions should focus on the criteria 
for the position that were established at the outset of 
the recruiting process. Obviously, discussions should 
stay within acceptable legal parameters and should 
not include references to politics, religion, age, racial 
origin, and sexual preferences.
When the initial interview process is over, the gov-
erning body should avoid impulsive action but rather 
take whatever time is necessary to arrive at a comfort-
able and well-reasoned decision. At this point, either 
one person has emerged as the clear choice of the 
33 of 69

--- page 34 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
15
governing body; or, more likely, the pool of candidates 
has been narrowed down to two or three individuals 
that the governing body would like to further pur-
sue. In most cases, the process will involve a second 
interview of this smaller group of finalists. However, 
if there is one clear choice, please refer to the section 
entitled “Making the Final Selection.” 
Second Interview  If, after the initial interview, there 
are two or three candidates that the governing body 
would like to further consider, a couple of options 
exist for setting up a second interview: 
1.	 The governing body may invite the finalists back 
for a second, more in-depth interview, coupled 
perhaps with some sort of community function. 
This arrangement often provides the governing 
body with the insight needed to make a final 
decision. 
2.	 The governing body may invite the finalists back 
for a second, more in-depth interview, coupled 
with an opportunity for community leaders and/or 
staff to provide input into the selection of the chief 
administrator.
In either case, finalists should be notified of their 
status, congratulated for being among the select few 
who will be further considered, informed of the pro-
cess, and asked for permission for the governing body 
to conduct reference checks.
Reference Checks  As the governing body is now 
deciding between two or three qualified candidates, it 
is important at this point to conduct reference checks 
that provide additional information on which to base 
the decision. References should be checked to learn 
about each finalist’s ability to work effectively with 
people, to develop a more complete understanding of 
the finalist’s work experience and specific accomplish-
ments, and to see if the finalist’s qualifications match 
the profile for the position. The following suggestions 
are important for ensuring consistency and thorough-
ness when conducting reference checks:
■
■The reference checks may be performed by mem-
bers of the governing body, staff, or executive 
recruitment firm. In general, however, it is advis-
able to limit the number of people performing the 
checks to one or two. It may be difficult, depend-
ing on the number of candidates, to have one 
person perform all the reference checks, especially 
if there are three references for each candidate. 
Further, it can be helpful if two people compare 
notes on the same candidates. 
■
■Be consistent in discussing issues with and asking 
questions of each candidate in order to provide a 
good basis for comparison.
■
■Contact enough people to ensure a consistent read-
ing as to the candidate’s strengths and weaknesses. 
If a reference can say only good things about the 
candidate, he or she should be asked directly what 
weaknesses the candidate has.
Decision Point: Inviting the Candidate’s Spouse/
Partner  While the focus of the recruitment is on the 
chief administrator, the governing body may formally 
invite the candidate’s spouse/partner to the com-
munity during the interview process. Generally, this 
type of invitation occurs only after the first interview 
process has narrowed the group of candidates down to 
the top two or three. The spouse/partner should never 
be included in the formal interview process, nor made 
to feel as if he or she is being interrogated in any way.
If the governing body formally invites the spouse/
partner to accompany the candidate, it is important 
that this part of the process be as well organized as 
all the other parts that concern the candidate directly. 
Here, too, an important impression about the commu-
nity is being made. The interests of the spouse/partner 
should be carefully determined and accommodated. 
On the other hand, the governing body may use an 
informal, non-structured approach to the involvement 
of the spouse/partner. Understanding that a candidate 
may bring his or her spouse/partner along to explore 
the community as a possible future home, the govern-
ing body may consider having a packet of relevant 
community information available.
Decision Point: Community Involvement  The gov-
erning body must decide whether to involve commu-
nity members or committees in the interview process. 
In most cases, the local government assumes respon-
sibility for the interviews and conducts the process 
of selecting the new chief administrator without the 
involvement of members of the community. 
In some cases, however, governing bodies have 
chosen to supplement the usual discussion between 
members and finalists by inviting community 
leaders to participate. For example, finalists may 
meet with selected community leaders to answer 
questions and receive their input on matters they 
consider important to the local government. If this 
option is taken, the purpose of the meeting should 
be made clear to all involved. Both the finalist and 
the community members should know whether 
these meetings are intended simply to provide the 
34 of 69

--- page 35 ---
16	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
finalist with additional information on the local  
government or whether the community group will 
also be involved in the actual selection process. In 
the latter case, although the input from the commu-
nity will be valuable, it should be made clear that 
the governing body will make the final selection 
based upon a variety of factors.
Decision Point: Staff Involvement  The governing 
body must also decide whether to involve staff mem-
bers in the interview process. It may choose to supple-
ment the usual discussion between members and 
finalists by inviting staff members to participate. For 
example, finalists may meet with selected department 
directors to answer questions and review departmental 
operations in more detail.
If this option is taken, its purpose should be made 
clear to all involved. Both the finalist and the staff 
members should know whether these meetings are 
intended simply to provide the finalist with additional 
information on the local government or whether the 
group will also be involved in the selection process. In 
the latter case, although the input from the staff will 
be valuable, it should be made clear that the govern-
ing body will make the final selection based upon a 
variety of factors.
Major Decision Point: Making the Final 
Selection
After the second interviews, there should be one 
person who is the clear first choice of the majority, if 
not all, of the governing body. It is important to both 
the governing body and the potential new hire that 
the decision be unanimous, if possible. A unanimous 
vote from the governing body demonstrates a commit-
ment of support to the new chief administrator and 
sends a positive message to both the organization and 
the community. If the governing body is divided on 
the appointment and the decision is not unanimous, 
however, the chosen finalist should be advised of this 
prior to accepting the position.
Once the selection has been made, the governing 
body, staff, or executive recruiter should contact the 
finalist, confirm his or her willingness to accept the 
position, and obtain permission to conduct a very 
thorough background check, which will be performed 
by an outside party. This process includes interviews 
with individuals in the candidate’s current commu-
nity, an investigation into possible criminal history, 
and a credit check, which requires the candidate’s 
consent. 
Another element of this final selection process may 
include some or all of the members of the governing 
body making an on-site visit to the finalist’s current 
community. Often finalists insist that an agreement 
regarding terms and conditions of employment be 
agreed upon before being open to a site visit.
Once the governing body is satisfied with the 
results of that process, it may inform the finalist and 
move ahead to put together a total compensation 
package and discuss other related arrangements. How-
ever, if the governing body is unable to satisfactorily 
conclude negotiations with its first choice, it may need 
to engage in discussions with one of the other final-
ists. Thus, it should refrain from notifying the other 
finalists until all arrangements have been finalized 
with the first-choice candidate. 
From a public image standpoint, it is impera-
tive that all candidates learn about the final selec-
tion from the governing body or its representative, 
as opposed to hearing about it from a third party or 
reading about it online or in a newsletter or profes-
sional publication. A representative from the govern-
ing body, staff, or executive recruitment firm should 
personally contact the runners-up prior to or at the 
same time that a news release about the appointment 
is issued. 
It is important that the vote for the new chief 
administrator be unanimous, if possible. This  
sends a positive message to the organization  
and the community.
35 of 69

--- page 36 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
17
1.	 Ultimately, what salary will be acceptable to the 
governing body? 
2.	 What is the bargaining range? 
3.	 What is the current salary of the applicant? 
4.	 What type of salary and total compensation 
package did the candidate discuss during the 
interview? 
ICMA, the National Association of Counties, 
and state leagues of cities and counties are sources 
of information on the salaries of local government 
administrators around the country. Prior to initiating 
negotiations, the governing body should compare its 
salary range with that of other governing bodies in 
same region of the country.
Elements of Total Compensation  Elements of a 
total compensation package typically include:
■
■Base salary
■
■Deferred compensation
■
■Severance pay
■
■Use of government car or car allowance
■
■Use of technology or technology allowance
■
■Retirement plan
■
■Medical and other insurance (dental, optical, life, 
disability)
■
■Vacation accrual
■
■Holidays 
■
■Sick leave accrual
■
■Membership dues, conference, and professional 
development attendance fees.
9. The Negotiation Process
O
nce the local government has made its decision 
and the finalist has indicated a willingness to 
serve as the chief administrator, a number of final 
arrangements must be completed. These include 
negotiating a compensation package and completing 
transition activities. Only after these arrangements are 
concluded can the new chief administrator relocate 
and begin work for the community. 
Preparation for Negotiation 
The governing body needs to ensure that relations 
with the new administrator get off to a good start. At 
this point, nothing should happen that causes the new 
administrator to reconsider. 
It is important that the governing body identify a 
single individual to act as the negotiator for the local gov-
ernment. Depending on the approach that the governing 
body has selected, the negotiator may be a member of 
the governing body; a member of the staff, such as the 
interim chief administrator or the municipal attorney; 
or the executive recruiter. The following are important 
guidelines regarding the structure of the negotiations:
1.	 The atmosphere should be friendly and relaxed. 
2.	 The negotiator should be flexible. Negotiating 
implies a willingness to consider options and 
alternatives in pursuit of an acceptable package. 
There may well be more than one way to meet the 
financial objectives of the new administrator. 
3.	 The governing body should be realistic. No mat-
ter how beautiful and desirable the community or 
position may be, the finalist is unlikely to accept 
the new position without an increase in pay over 
his or her present salary. 
Major Decision Point: Negotiating 
Compensation
In compensation negotiations, base salary is a good 
place to start. The ICMA Compensation Guidelines, 
which are provided in Appendix B, are a good source 
of information to help with this part of the process. 
The person conducting the negotiation on behalf of 
the local government should keep the following  
questions in mind: 
The governing body should rely on a single individual 
to handle its part of the negotiation process.  
The process should be friendly and  
relaxed; the negotiator should be flexible;  
and the governing body should be realistic in  
its guidelines to the negotiator.
36 of 69

--- page 37 ---
18	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
Before the negotiation begins, the governing 
body should ask the candidate to provide a written 
itemization of his or her current total compensation. 
After receiving this information, the person negotiat-
ing on behalf of the governing body should outline 
a proposed package and provide it to the candidate. 
Usually there will be no negotiation on those benefits 
that are similar among local governments, such as 
medical insurance and holidays. The variables most 
often relate to base salary and particular financial 
objectives, such as deferred compensation, health 
insurance, and requirements to join a state retirement 
system.
The proposed compensation package should  
(1) leave the individual whole on basic benefits,  
(2) provide an appropriate step forward in cash-related 
benefits, (3) ensure an increase in take-home pay, and 
(4) deal with any particular financial objectives that 
the new administrator may have. 
Noncompensation Elements  During the negotia-
tions, some issues will arise that do not relate to the 
total compensation package but may well have signifi-
cant financial implications for both the local govern-
ment and the new administrator. Both parties need to 
be flexible and realistic in dealing with these issues: 
■
■Relocation expenses: It is common for local 
governments to pay the one-time cost of relocating 
the administrator and his or her family and house-
hold furnishings to the new local government. 
Sometimes both parties agree on a “not-to-exceed” 
figure based on estimates from moving companies. 
■
■Temporary housing: An allowance for temporary 
housing is usually provided until the new adminis-
trator is able to sell his or her former home and/or 
relocate his or her family. Typically, this amount is 
sufficient to cover the cost of a modern furnished 
apartment or condominium. Again, both parties 
may agree to a fixed time period or amount. 
■
■Commuting expenses: As with temporary hous-
ing, the local government often will agree to reim-
burse the administrator for periodic family visits or 
for the spouse/partner to visit for house-hunting 
purposes. 
■
■Housing assistance: Regional variations in the cost 
of housing or housing financing can complicate 
the negotiations. There is considerable precedent 
for local governments—using appropriate safe-
guards and limits—to assist in the purchase and/or 
financing of housing for the new administrator. A 
variety of options exist, including a loan or a salary 
supplement. 
Employment Agreements  It is in the interests of 
both the community and the chief administrator to 
have a written summary of the terms and conditions 
of employment to which both parties have agreed. 
The stable working situation created by such an 
agreement helps to attract and keep top-flight admin-
istrators in a generally mobile profession. ICMA 
recommends the use of employment agreements 
because the detailing of salary, benefits, and other 
conditions of the administrator’s job puts those items 
where they belong—in a contract where both par-
ties can know what is expected—and removes them 
from the daily agenda of the chief administrator and 
members of the governing body. 
While such an agreement usually does not refer to 
a specific term of employment and permits either the 
governing body or the chief administrator to terminate 
for cause or at will, it should include a section provid-
ing the administrator with severance pay for a fixed 
period of time if he or she is terminated. This provides 
important personal and professional security for local 
government chief administrators, as they have the 
rather unique situation of working at the pleasure of 
the governing body with the possibility of dismissal 
for any reason at any time. 
While not a lengthy legal document, the employ-
ment agreement is usually drafted by the local govern-
ment’s attorney. The new administrator is often given 
an opportunity to prepare a first draft for consider-
ation. If an employment agreement is not used, a 
formal letter of understanding, at a minimum, should 
be prepared. 
As a final note on this process, the governing 
body should be prepared for the possibility that it will 
be unable to reach agreement on compensation or 
other matters with the first-choice candidate. In these 
instances, the governing body typically enters into 
negotiations with its second-choice candidate. As indi-
cated previously, once an agreement has been final-
ized, all other candidates should be promptly notified 
that they were not selected. 
37 of 69

--- page 38 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
19
10. The Transition Process
A
fter the governing body and new chief adminis-
trator have reached agreement on the issues of 
compensation, starting date, and method and timing 
of announcing the selection to both the community 
and the administrator’s former local government, the 
transition process begins. 
Announcing the Selection 
The announcement of the selection should be well 
planned and coordinated between the governing body 
and new chief administrator. Two factors should pre-
cede any formal announcement of the appointment:
■
■The successful candidate has formally accepted the 
position and the negotiations have been concluded; 
and
■
■The successful candidate has been given the 
opportunity to notify his or her current governing 
body about the appointment.
This public announcement should be coordinated 
carefully to recognize the instantaneous nature of elec-
tronic communication. 
Additional Elements 
Additional elements that the governing body may 
employ to ensure a smooth transition for the new chief 
administrator are as follows:
■
■General assistance: For a smooth transition, the 
local government should offer whatever general 
assistance the new administrator might need in 
moving, such as introductions to realtors and 
bankers and support to the spouse/partner in find-
ing suitable employment.
■
■Orientation meetings: The governing body should 
arrange to introduce the new chief administrator 
to department heads and local government staff. 
While the new administrator may have met some 
of these individuals during the interview process, a 
special meeting or reception can be a pleasant way 
to turn over responsibility. Similar meetings, brief-
ing sessions, and/or receptions can be arranged 
to introduce the new administrator and his or her 
family to community groups, civic leaders, and 
residents in general. 
■
■Local government work session, orientation, 
and review of objectives: It is desirable to have 
an initial work session with the new administrator 
to discuss and clarify initial expectations on both 
sides and to review goals and objectives. Even 
though some of these issues may have been raised 
during the interview process, communication 
from the outset can help ensure a smooth working 
relationship. 
■
■Performance evaluation: Using the position’s 
goals and objectives as a starting point, the gov-
erning body and new chief administrator should 
agree to an annual or semiannual review of the 
administrator’s performance. This established and 
formal process helps to ensure that communication 
between the parties is maintained, that progress 
is monitored, and that goals and objectives are 
reviewed and refined on a regular basis. 
38 of 69

--- page 39 ---
20	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
11. Conclusion
selecting the right person for the job is critical for the 
governing body and for the community.
This guidebook addresses a number of factors to 
consider in recruiting, selecting, negotiating, and hir-
ing a professional local government manager. In doing 
so, it elaborates on the “best practices” for identify-
ing the appropriate skills and background of a chief 
administrator, noting that the governing body must 
identify the qualities, characteristics, experience, and 
areas of expertise that would be found in the ideal 
candidate. Throughout the entire process, clear com-
munication to staff, the community, and the media is 
essential for achieving the governing body’s goals. In 
the end, the process of recruiting and selecting a chief 
administrator should be a positive and unifying experi-
ence, resulting in the appointment of an individual 
who represents and embodies the governing body’s 
vision for the future. 
ICMA and its members are resources available 
for providing guidance and recommendations in the 
recruitment of a chief administrator. With this docu-
ment, we hope we have provided a basic understand-
ing of the process involved in selecting a professional 
local government manager who meets the needs of 
the community.
C
hoosing a chief administrator can be the most 
significant action of the governing body. The 
chief administrator is a leader, coach, and chief of 
strategy for the staff team whose job it is to imple-
ment a vision, policy, and procedures; accomplish 
goals; and achieve the desired output of the orga-
nization. Similar to a chief executive officer of a 
Fortune 500 company, the chief administrator is also 
responsible for serving an elected governing body, 
managing the financial aspects of the organization, 
directing the employees, ensuring quality customer 
service, and implementing legal and ethical stan-
dards. Furthermore, unique to public agencies, the 
chief administrator oversees an organization that is 
focused on providing a variety of services to the com-
munity rather than on making a profit. 
In addition to a very diversified portfolio of ser-
vices that must be provided and interests that must be 
served fairly, the chief administrator is responsible for 
an organization that must balance its budget; provide 
for and encourage public input into decision making; 
and understand, respect, and appreciate the politi-
cal environment. In summary, the position of chief 
administrator requires a variety of skill sets—not every 
person is capable of performing the role. Therefore, 
39 of 69

--- page 40 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
21
Appendix A
ICMA Code of Ethics with Guidelines
a member considering several offers or seeking several 
positions at the same time, but once a bona fide offer 
of a position has been accepted, that commitment 
should be honored. Oral acceptance of an employment 
offer is considered binding unless the employer makes 
fundamental changes in terms of employment.
Credentials. An application for employment or for 
ICMA’s Voluntary Credentialing Program should be 
complete and accurate as to all pertinent details of 
education, experience, and personal history. Members 
should recognize that both omissions and inaccuracies 
must be avoided.
Professional Respect. Members seeking a manage-
ment position should show professional respect for 
persons formerly holding the position or for others 
who might be applying for the same position. Profes-
sional respect does not preclude honest differences of 
opinion; it does preclude attacking a person’s motives 
or integrity in order to be appointed to a position.
Reporting Ethics Violations. When becoming aware 
of a possible violation of the ICMA Code of Ethics, 
members are encouraged to report the matter to ICMA. 
In reporting the matter, members may choose to go on 
record as the complainant or report the matter on a 
confidential basis. 
Confidentiality. Members should not discuss or 
divulge information with anyone about pending or 
completed ethics cases, except as specifically autho-
rized by the Rules of Procedure for Enforcement of the 
Code of Ethics.
Seeking Employment. Members should not seek 
employment for a position having an incumbent 
administrator who has not resigned or been officially 
informed that his or her services are to be terminated.
The ICMA Code of Ethics was adopted by the ICMA membership in 1924, and most recently amended by the 
membership in May 1998. The Guidelines for the Code were adopted by the ICMA Executive Board in 1972, 
and most recently revised in July 2004.
The mission of ICMA is to create excellence in local governance by developing and fostering professional local gov-
ernment management worldwide. To further this mission, certain principles, as enforced by the Rules of Procedure, 
shall govern the conduct of every member of ICMA, who shall:
1.	 Be dedicated to the concepts of effective and  
democratic local government by responsible 
elected officials and believe that professional gen-
eral management is essential to the achievement of 
this objective.
2.	 Affirm the dignity and worth of the services ren-
dered by government and maintain a constructive, 
creative, and practical attitude toward local govern-
ment affairs and a deep sense of social responsibil-
ity as a trusted public servant.
Guideline
Advice to Officials of Other Local Governments. When 
members advise and respond to inquiries from elected 
or appointed officials of other local governments, they 
should inform the administrators of those communities.
3.	 Be dedicated to the highest ideals of honor and 
integrity in all public and personal relationships in 
order that the member may merit the respect and 
confidence of the elected officials, of other officials 
and employees, and of the public.
Guidelines
Public Confidence. Members should conduct them-
selves so as to maintain public confidence in their 
profession, their local government, and in their perfor-
mance of the public trust.
Impression of Influence. Members should conduct 
their official and personal affairs in such a manner 
as to give the clear impression that they cannot be 
improperly influenced in the performance of their 
official duties.
Appointment Commitment. Members who accept an 
appointment to a position should not fail to report for 
that position. This does not preclude the possibility of 
40 of 69

--- page 41 ---
22	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
4.	 Recognize that the chief function of local govern-
ment at all times is to serve the best interests of all 
of the people.
Guideline
Length of Service. A minimum of two years generally 
is considered necessary in order to render a profes-
sional service to the local government. A short tenure 
should be the exception rather than a recurring experi-
ence. However, under special circumstances, it may 
be in the best interests of the local government and 
the member to separate in a shorter time. Examples 
of such circumstances would include refusal of the 
appointing authority to honor commitments concern-
ing conditions of employment, a vote of no confidence 
in the member, or severe personal problems. It is the 
responsibility of an applicant for a position to ascer-
tain conditions of employment. Inadequately deter-
mining terms of employment prior to arrival does not 
justify premature termination.
5.	 Submit policy proposals to elected officials; provide 
them with facts and advice on matters of policy 
as a basis for making decisions and setting com-
munity goals; and uphold and implement local 
government policies adopted by elected officials.
Guideline
Conflicting Roles. Members who serve multiple roles—
working as both city attorney and city manager for the 
same community, for example—should avoid participat-
ing in matters that create the appearance of a conflict of 
interest. They should disclose the potential conflict to the 
governing body so that other opinions may be solicited.
6.	 Recognize that elected representatives of the 
people are entitled to the credit for the establish-
ment of local government policies; responsibility 
for policy execution rests with the members.
7.	 Refrain from all political activities which under-
mine public confidence in professional administra-
tors. Refrain from participation in the election of 
the members of the employing legislative body.
Guidelines
Elections of the Governing body. Members should 
maintain a reputation for serving equally and impar-
tially all members of the governing body of the local 
government they serve, regardless of party. To this 
end, they should not engage in active participation in 
the election campaign on behalf of or in opposition to 
candidates for the governing body.
Elections of Elected Executives. Members should not 
engage in the election campaign of any candidate for 
mayor or elected county executive.
Running for Office. Members shall not run for elected 
office or become involved in political activities related 
to running for elected office. They shall not seek politi-
cal endorsements, financial contributions or engage in 
other campaign activities.
Elections. Members share with their fellow citizens 
the right and responsibility to vote and to voice their 
opinion on public issues. However, in order not 
to impair their effectiveness on behalf of the local 
governments they serve, they shall not participate in 
political activities to support the candidacy of indi-
viduals running for any city, county, special district, 
school, state or federal offices. Specifically, they shall 
not endorse candidates, make financial contributions, 
sign or circulate petitions, or participate in fund-rais-
ing activities for individuals seeking or holding elected 
office. 
Elections in the Council-Manager Plan. Members 
may assist in preparing and presenting materials that 
explain the council-manager form of government to 
the public prior to an election on the use of the plan. 
If assistance is required by another community, mem-
bers may respond. All activities regarding ballot issues 
should be conducted within local regulations and in a 
professional manner.
Presentation of Issues. Members may assist the gov-
erning body in presenting issues involved in referenda 
such as bond issues, annexations, and similar matters.
8.	 Make it a duty continually to improve the member’s 
professional ability and to develop the competence 
of associates in the use of management techniques.
Guidelines
Self-Assessment. Each member should assess his or 
her professional skills and abilities on a periodic basis.
Professional Development. Each member should 
commit at least 40 hours per year to professional 
development activities that are based on the practices 
identified by the members of ICMA.
9.	 Keep the community informed on local govern-
ment affairs; encourage communication between 
the citizens and all local government officers; 
emphasize friendly and courteous service to the 
public; and seek to improve the quality and image 
of public service.
41 of 69

--- page 42 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
23
10.	Resist any encroachment on professional respon-
sibilities, believing the member should be free to 
carry out official policies without interference, and 
handle each problem without discrimination on the 
basis of principle and justice.
Guideline 
Information Sharing. The member should openly 
share information with the governing body while 
diligently carrying out the member’s responsibilities as 
set forth in the charter or enabling legislation.
11.	Handle all matters of personnel on the basis of 
merit so that fairness and impartiality govern a 
member’s decisions, pertaining to appointments, 
pay adjustments, promotions, and discipline.
Guideline
Equal Opportunity. All decisions pertaining to 
appointments, pay adjustments, promotions, and dis-
cipline should prohibit discrimination because of race, 
color, religion, sex, national origin, sexual orientation, 
political affiliation, disability, age, or marital status. 
It should be the members’ personal and profes-
sional responsibility to actively recruit and hire a 
diverse staff throughout their organizations. 
12.	Seek no favor; believe that personal aggrandize-
ment or profit secured by confidential information 
or by misuse of public time is dishonest.
Guidelines
Gifts. Members should not directly or indirectly solicit 
any gift or accept or receive any gift--whether it be 
money, services, loan, travel, entertainment, hospital-
ity, promise, or any other form--under the following 
circumstances: (1) it could be reasonably inferred or 
expected that the gift was intended to influence them 
in the performance of their official duties; or (2) the 
gift was intended to serve as a reward for any official 
action on their part.
It is important that the prohibition of unsolicited 
gifts be limited to circumstances related to improper 
influence. In de minimus situations, such as meal 
checks, some modest maximum dollar value should be 
determined by the member as a guideline. The guide-
line is not intended to isolate members from normal 
social practices where gifts among friends, associates, 
and relatives are appropriate for certain occasions.
Investments in Conflict with Official Duties. Member 
should not invest or hold any investment, directly or 
indirectly, in any financial business, commercial, or 
other private transaction that creates a conflict with 
their official duties.
In the case of real estate, the potential use of 
confidential information and knowledge to further a 
member’s personal interest requires special consider-
ation. This guideline recognizes that members’ official 
actions and decisions can be influenced if there is a 
conflict with personal investments. Purchases and 
sales which might be interpreted as speculation for 
quick profit ought to be avoided (see the guideline on 
“Confidential Information”). 
Because personal investments may prejudice or 
may appear to influence official actions and decisions, 
members may, in concert with their governing body, 
provide for disclosure of such investments prior to 
accepting their position as local government adminis-
trator or prior to any official action by the governing 
body that may affect such investments.
Personal Relationships. Member should disclose 
any personal relationship to the governing body in 
any instance where there could be the appearance of 
a conflict of interest. For example, if the manager’s 
spouse works for a developer doing business with the 
local government, that fact should be disclosed.
Confidential Information. Members should not dis-
close to others, or use to further their personal inter-
est, confidential information acquired by them in the 
course of their official duties.
Private Employment. Members should not engage 
in, solicit, negotiate for, or promise to accept private 
employment, nor should they render services for pri-
vate interests or conduct a private business when such 
employment, service, or business creates a conflict with 
or impairs the proper discharge of their official duties.
Teaching, lecturing, writing, or consulting are typi-
cal activities that may not involve conflict of interest, 
or impair the proper discharge of their official duties. 
Prior notification of the appointing authority is appro-
priate in all cases of outside employment.
Representation. Members should not represent any 
outside interest before any agency, whether public 
or private, except with the authorization of or at the 
direction of the appointing authority they serve.
Endorsements. Members should not endorse com-
mercial products or services by agreeing to use their 
photograph, endorsement, or quotation in paid or other 
commercial advertisements, whether or not for compen-
sation. Members may, however, agree to endorse the  
42 of 69

--- page 43 ---
24	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
following, provided they do not receive any compensa-
tion: (1) books or other publications; (2) professional 
development or educational services provided by non-
profit membership organizations or recognized educa-
tional institutions; (3) products and/or services in which 
the local government has a direct economic interest.
Members’ observations, opinions, and analyses 
of commercial products used or tested by their local 
governments are appropriate and useful to the profes-
sion when included as part of professional articles and 
reports.
43 of 69

--- page 44 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
25
Appendix B
ICMA Guidelines for Compensation
M
aintaining public trust and integrity in local 
government requires both effective governance 
and management of the organization. The following 
guidelines are intended to establish a best practice for 
establishing and negotiating compensation for local 
government executives and staff and to clarify the 
roles and responsibilities of the governing body, local 
government manager, and employee. 
The Principles
Compensation and personnel matters should be guided 
by the core principles of the ICMA Code of Ethics. ICMA 
affirms that the standard practice for establishing the 
compensation of local government managers be fair, 
reasonable, transparent, and based on comparable public 
salaries nationally and regionally. ICMA members should 
act with integrity in all personal and professional matters 
in order to merit the trust of elected officials, the public 
and employees. Local government managers have an 
ethical responsibility to be clear about what is being 
requested and to avoid excessive compensation. 
Elected officials perform a critical governance role 
providing oversight of the management of the organi-
zation. To that end, they must be engaged in establish-
ing the process for determining the compensation for 
all executives appointed by the governing body. 
Compensation should be based on the position 
requirements, the complexity of the job reflected in the 
composition of the organization and community, the 
leadership needed, labor market conditions, cost of living 
in the community, and the organization’s ability to pay. 
The Process for Negotiating Executive 
Compensation
To establish fair and reasonable compensation, the gov-
erning body operating as a committee of the whole or as 
a designated evaluation and compensation subcommit-
tee, should design and implement the methodology for 
setting the compensation of the local government man-
ager and any other appointees of the governing body. 
Compensation benchmarks should be established 
based on comparable local government or public sec-
tor agencies. 
The governing body should engage experts 
whether contracted or in house as necessary to pro-
vide the information required to establish fair and 
reasonable compensation levels. 
All decisions on compensation and benefits must 
be made by the entire governing body in a public 
meeting.
Compensation Guidelines for Local  
Government Executives 
A starting point for the elected officials and local 
government manager in any salary negotiation should 
be to
1.	 Determine the requirements of the job and the 
experience needed to successfully perform the job 
duties.
2.	 Examine market conditions to learn what compa-
rable public sector executives earn. A best practice 
would be to gather information using pre-deter-
mined comparable benchmark local governments 
or public sector agencies.
3.	 Understand the services provided by the local gov-
ernment along with the nature of the current issues 
in the organization and in the community, and 
then compare these with the individual’s expertise 
and proven ability to resolve those issues. 
4.	 Identify the local government’s current financial 
position, its ability to pay, and the existing policies 
toward compensation relative to market conditions.
5.	 Weigh factors such as the individual’s credentials, 
experience and expertise when setting salary.
6.	 Consider additional compensation in areas where 
the cost of living is high and the governing body 
wants the manager to reside within the commu-
nity. In addition, other unique and special circum-
stances may be taken into consideration, such as 
difficult recruitment markets and the particularly 
challenging needs of the public agency.
7.	 Seek legal advice as needed and appropriate dur-
ing periods prior to the beginning of employment 
when terms and conditions are being negotiated 
and finalized. 
44 of 69

--- page 45 ---
26	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
Severance 
Severance provisions established in the employment 
agreement must be both reasonable and affordable so 
that the cost of the severance is not an impediment 
to fulfilling the governing body’s right to terminate a 
manager’s service, if desired, but is consistent with 
the role and expectations of the position. The ICMA 
Model Employment Agreement (see Appendix F) 
recommends a one year severance but recognizes that 
the length of service with an organization may justify 
a higher severance.
Compensation Changes 
1.	 Benefits and salary increases should be reasonably 
comparable to those that local government execu-
tives receive within the designated benchmark or 
regional market area and generally consistent with 
other employees.
2.	 Merit adjustments or bonuses should be contingent 
upon performance and the overall financial posi-
tion of the local government to afford additional 
compensation payments. Provisions regarding con-
sideration of periodic merit adjustments in salary 
should be pre-determined.
3.	 Local government managers must recognize and 
effectively manage conflicts of interest inherent 
in compensation changes. Managers should avoid 
taking steps regarding pension and other benefits 
where they will be the sole or primary beneficiary 
of the change. Examples include:
■
■Dramatically increasing salary thereby leading to 
pension spiking.
■
■Recommending or implementing single highest 
year to determine retirement benefits
4.	 An individual should receive a single salary 
that recognizes all duties and responsibilities 
assigned rather than different salaries for different 
assignments.
5.	 Local government managers should not put their 
personal compensation interests before the good of 
the overall organization and that of the citizens. 
Transparency
1.	 Local government managers should provide their 
total compensation package to the governing body 
when requesting compensation changes so that the 
governing body has a comprehensive view of the 
compensation package.
2.	 In the interest of fairness and transparency, there 
should be full disclosure to the governing body, 
prior to formal consideration and approval, of the 
potential cost of any benefit changes negotiated 
during employment.
3.	 When the terms and conditions of employment are 
being renegotiated with the employer and at the 
end when the employment is being terminated, 
ICMA members have a duty to advise the elected 
officials to seek legal advice.
4.	 In the interests of transparency, the salary plan 
and salary ranges for local government positions, 
including that of the manager, should be publicly 
accessible on the agency’s website. 
General Compensation Guidelines for All 
Employees
1.	 Each local government should establish benchmark 
agencies, which are determined using set criteria 
such as, but not limited to,
■
■Geographic proximity
■
■Similarity with regard to the nature of the ser-
vices provided
■
■Similarity in employer size/population size
■
■Similarity in the socioeconomic makeup of the 
population
■
■Other similar employers in the immediate area.
2.	 The local government should develop appropri-
ate compensation levels that are in line with their 
labor market. Doing so will enable the organization 
to establish and maintain a reputation as a com-
petitive, fair, and equitable employer as well as a 
good steward of public funds.
3.	 When considering any salary or benefit changes, 
the immediate and anticipated long-term financial 
resources of the organization always should be 
taken into account.
4.	 Appropriate financial practices should be followed 
to both disclose and properly fund any related 
future liability to the local government. 
45 of 69

--- page 46 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
27
Appendix C:
Professional Organizations to Consider Posting 
Position Vacancy
International City/County Management Association (ICMA)
777 North Capitol Street NE, Suite 500
Washington, DC 20002
Phone: 202-289-4262
JobCenter
Rates/Information: 
www.icma.org/en/icma/career_network/employers/
difference
American Society for Public Administration (ASPA)
1301 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Suite 700
Washington, DC 20004
Phone: 202-393-7878
PublicServiceCareers.org (online)
Rates/Information:  
www.publicservicecareers.org/?pageid=617
National Association of Counties (NACo)
25 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Suite 500
Washington, DC 20001
Phone: 202-393-6226 or 1-888-407-6226 
JobsOnline (website) and County News Job  
Market/Classified Ad (newspaper)
Rates/Submissions:  
www.naco.org/programs/jobsonline/Pages/ 
JobsOnlineSubmission.aspx
National Association of County Administrators (NACA)
777 North Capitol Street NE, Suite 500
Washington, DC 20002
Email: naca@icma.org
National Forum for Black Public Administrators (NFBPA)
777 North Capitol Street NE, Suite 807
Washington, DC 20002
Phone: 202-408-9300
NFBPA Career Center
Ad Rates/Information: careers.nfbpa.org/rates.cfm
Phone: 1-866-964-2765
E-mail (Job Posting Sales): postings@boxwoodtech.com
National League of Cities (NLC)
1301 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Suite 550
Washington, DC 20004
Nation’s Cities Weekly Classifieds
Rates/Submissions:  
www.nlc.org/news-center/nations-cities-weekly/
classifieds/ncw-submit-classified
International Hispanic Network (IHN)
2107 North First Street, Suite 470
San José, CA 95131
Phone: 408-392-0232
Job Posting 
Rates/Submissions:  
www.ihnonline.org/jobsaddform.asp
STATE MUNICIPAL LEAGUES
Alabama League of Municipalities (www.alalm.org)
535 Adams Avenue 
Montgomery, AL 36104
Phone: 334-262-2566
Municipal Classified Ads
Posting Information: carrieb@alalm.org
Alaska Municipal League (www.akml.org)
217 Second Street, Suite 200
Juneau, AK 99801
Phone: 907-586-1325
AML Classifieds
Informational Brochure:  
www.akml.org/uploads/MunicipalClassified 
AdGuidelines.pdf
Phone: 1-877-636-1325
Email: info@akml.org 
46 of 69

--- page 47 ---
28	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
League of Arizona Cities and Towns (www.azleague.org)
1820 West Washington Street
Phoenix, AZ 85007
Phone: 602-258-5786
Municipal Employment Opportunities
Rates/Information:  
www.azleague.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=jobs.main
Email: jobs@azleague.org
Arkansas Municipal League (www.arml.org)
301 West 2nd Street
North Little Rock, AR 72115
Phone: 501-374-3484 
City & Town Municipal Mart
Rates/Information:  
www.arml.org/classifieds.html
Submissions: 501-374-3484
League of California Cities (www.cacities.org)
1400 K Street, Suite 400
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-658-8200
Western Cities 
Rates/Submissions:  
www.westerncity.com/Western-City/
Job-Opportunities/How-to-Post-a-Job
Colorado Municipal League (www.cml.org)
1144 Sherman Street
Denver, CO 80203
Phone: 303-831-6411 or 1-866-578-0936
CareerLink
Postings: www.cml.org/CareerLink.aspx
Connecticut Conference of Municipalities (www.ccm-ct.org)
900 Chapel Street, 9th Floor
New Haven, CT 06510
Phone: 203-498-3000
Municipal Job Bank
Information/Rates/Submissions:  
www.ccm-ct.org/Plugs/job-bank.aspx
Delaware League of Local Governments (www.dllg.org)
P.O. Box 484
Dover, DE 19903
Phone: 302-678-0991
*Provides no employment listings*
Florida League of Cities (www.floridaleagueofcities.com)
301 South Bronough Street, Suite 300
Tallahassee, FL 32301
Phone: 850-222-9684 or 1-800-342-8112  
FLC E-News
Information/Submissions: 	
	
www.floridaleagueofcities.com/Publications 
.aspx?CNID=179
Phone: 850-322-7221
Georgia Municipal Association (www.gmanet.com)
201 Pryor Street SW
Atlanta, GA 30303
Phone: 404-688-0472
Classifieds/Marketplace
Submissions:  
www.glga.org/SubmitListing.aspx
Phone: 678-686-6209
Hawaii (none available)
Association of Idaho Cities (www.idahocities.org)
3100 South Vista Avenue, Suite 310
Boise, ID 83705
Phone 208-344-8594
Employment Opportunities
Information/Rates/Submissions:  
www.idahocities.org/index.aspx?nid=213
Illinois Municipal League (www.iml.org)
500 East Capitol Avenue
Springfield, IL 62701
Phone: 217-525-1220
Classifieds
Information/Submissions:  
www.iml.org/contact.cfm?user=rturner&subject 
=Submit%20Classified%20Ad
Rates: www.iml.org/page.cfm?category=640
Indiana Association of Cities and Towns 
(www.citiesandtowns.org)
200 South Meridian Street, Suite 340
Indianapolis, IN 46225
Phone: 317-237-6200
Municipal Dispatch
Contact Publications and Marketing Director 
Staff Directory:  
www.citiesandtowns.org/topic/subtopic.
php?fDD=2-15
47 of 69

--- page 48 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
29
Iowa League of Cities (www.iowaleague.org)
317 Sixth Avenue, Suite 800
Des Moines, IA 50309
Phone: 515-244-7282
Classifieds
Information/Rates/Submissions:  
www.iowaleague.org/Pages/SubmitClassified.aspx
League of Kansas Municipalities (www.lkm.org)
300 SW Eighth Avenue
Topeka, KS 66603
Phone: 785-354-9565
Kansas Government Journal (and online)
Rates: www.lkm.org/classifieds/jobs
Submissions: classifieds@lkm.org
	
Kentucky League of Cities (www.klc.org)
100 East Vine Street, Suite 800
Lexington, KY 40507
Phone: 859-977-3700 or 1-800-876-4552
City Job Opportunities Online
Submissions: www.klc.org/employment_post.asp
Louisiana Municipal Association (www.lma.org)
700 North 10th Street
Baton Rouge, LA 70802
Phone: 225-344-5001 or 1-800-234-8274
Maine Municipal Association (www.memun.org)
60 Community Drive
Augusta, ME 04330 
Phone: 207-623-8428
Job Bank and Classifieds
Information/Rates:  
www2.memun.org/public/wantads/itemlist.cfm
Submissions: ResourceCenter@memun.org
Maryland Municipal League (www.mdmunicipal.org)
1212 West Street
Annapolis, MD 21401
Phone: 410-268-5514 or 1-800-492-7121
Classifieds
Submissions: stevel@mdmunicipal.org
Massachusetts Municipal Association (www.mma.org)
One Winthrop Square
Boston, Massachusetts 02110 
Phone: 617-426-7272
The Beacon (and online)
Information/Rates:  
www.mma.org/ad-rates-and-details
Submissions: www.mma.org/ad-submission-form
Michigan Municipal League (www.mml.org)
1675 Green Road
Ann Arbor, MI 48105
Phone: 734-662-3246 or l-800-653-2483
Classifieds
Information/Rates:  
www.mml.org/classifieds/guidelines.html
Submissions:  
www.mml.org/classifieds/classifiedsform.php
League of Minnesota Cities (www.lmc.org)
145 University Avenue West
St. Paul, MN 55103
Phone: 651-281-1200 or 1-800-925-1122
City Job Opportunities
Information/Rates:  
www.lmc.org/page/1/posting-city-jobs.jsp
Submissions: HR-CityAds@lmc.org
	
Mississippi Municipal League (www.mmlonline.com)
600 East Amite Street, Suite 104
Jackson, MS 39201 
Phone: 601-353-5854
Classifieds
www.mmlonline.com/classifieds.aspx
Contact MML Staff – Staff Directory:  
www.mmlonline.com/contact.aspx
	
Missouri Municipal League (www.mocities.com)
1727 Southridge Drive 
Jefferson City, MO 65109 
Phone: 573-635-9134
Career Center
Information/Rates:  
www.mocities.com/networking
Submissions: tshaw@mocities.com
48 of 69

--- page 49 ---
30	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
Montana League of Cities and Towns (www.mlct.org)
208 North Montana Avenue, Suite 106 
Helena, MT 59601
Phone: 406-442-8768
Job Openings
Submissions: Contact Office Manager
Staff Directory: www.mlct.org/about-mlct/staff.html
League of Nebraska Municipalities (www.lonm.org)
1335 L Street, #A
Lincoln, NE 68508-2596
Phone: 402-476-2829
Job Postings
Information/Rates/Submissions:  
www.lonm.org/careers.html
Nevada League of Cities and Municipalities  
(www.nvleague.org/admin/about.htm)
310 South Curry Street 
Carson City, NV 89703
Phone: 775-882-2121
New Hampshire Local Government Center (www.nhlgc.org)
25 Triangle Park Drive 
Concord, NH 03301
Phone: 603-224-7447
Classifieds
Information/Rates/Submissions:  
www.nhlgc.org/classifieds/submitad.asp
New Jersey State League of Municipalities  
(www.njslom.org)
222 West State Street
Trenton, NJ 08608
Phone: 609-695-3481
Classifieds
Information/Rates/Submissions:  
www.njslom.org/classifieds_jobs.html
New Mexico Municipal League (www.nmml.org)
1229 Paseo de Peralta
Santa Fe, NM 87501
Phone: 1-800-432-2036
Classifieds
Information/Submissions: 
www.nmml.org/blog/category/classifieds/
positions-available
New York State Conference of Mayors and Municipal 
Officials (www.nycom.org)
119 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12210 
Phone: 518-463-1185
Help Wanted Classifieds
Information/Submissions:  
www.nycom.org/mn_class/helpwanted.asp#
North Carolina League of Municipalities (www.nclm.org)
215 North Dawson Street
Raleigh, NC 27603
Phone: 919-715-4000
Southern City, League Letter, and/or online:
Information:  
www.nclm.org/resource-center/Pages/jobs.aspx
Rates/Submissions:  
www.nclm.org/programs-services/publications/
Pages/southern-city.aspx
North Dakota League of Cities (www.ndlc.org)
410 East Front Avenue
Bismarck, ND 58504
Phone: 701-223-3518
Municipal Ads – Job Opportunities
www.ndlc.org/index.asp?Type=B_
BASIC&SEC={D835005A-831C-4BB1-BF46-
7D93A07A0083}
Contact NDLC Staff – Staff Directory:
www.ndlc.org/index.asp?Type=B_
BASIC&SEC={846F9FCA-A6EE-4082-B241-
8DA3E991D99A}
	
Ohio Municipal League (www.omlohio.org)
175 South Third Street, Suite 510
Columbus, OH 43215
Phone: 614-221-4349
Classified Advertisements
Information/Rates/Submissions:  
www.omlohio.org/Classifieds.htm
Oklahoma Municipal League (www.oml.org)
201 Northeast 23rd Street
Oklahoma City, OK 73105
Phone: 405-528-7515
Job Listings
Information/Rates/Submissions:  
www.okml.webs.com/joblistings.htm
49 of 69

--- page 50 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
31
League of Oregon Cities (www.orcities.org)
1201 Court Street NE, Suite 200 
Salem, OR 97301
Phone: 503-588-6550
Personnel Recruitment – Jobs 
Information/Rates/Submissions:  
www.orcities.org/JobsInterims/Jobs/tabid/816/ 
language/en-US/Default.aspx
Available Interim Candidates:  
www.orcities.org/JobsInterims/Interims/tabid/ 
5849/language/en-US/Default.aspx
Pennsylvania League of Cities & Municipalities  
(www.plcm.org)
414 North Second Street
Harrisburg, PA 17101 
Phone: 717-236-9469            
Municipal Job Junction
Information/Rates/Submissions:  
www.plcm.org/index.asp?Type=B_BASIC&SEC=
{24C2F4FE-80F6-4E58-BA9F-53345F31E1D7}&DE
Rhode Islad League of Cities and Towns  
(www.rileague.org)
One State Street, Suite 502
Providence, RI 02908
Phone: 401-272-3434
Available Positions
Information/Submissions:  
www.rileague.org/site/classifieds/available.html
Municipal Association of South Carolina (www.masc.sc)
1411 Gervais Street
Columbia, SC 29211
Phone: 803-799-9574
Job Openings:
Information/Submissions:  
www.masc.sc/municipalities/Pages/ 
Postinganadvertisement.aspx
South Dakota Municipal League (www.sdmunicipalleague.org)
208 Island Drive
Fort Pierre, SD 57532
Phone: 605-224-8654
Classifieds
Information/Rates/Submissions:  
www.sdmunicipalleague.org/index.asp?Type=
B_JOB&SEC=%7B9C4C9345-D0E6-470D-A708-
181FD9B26F51%7D
Tennessee Municipal League (www.tml1.org)
226 Capitol Boulevard, Suite 710
Nashville, TN 37219
Phone: 615-255-6416
Classifieds
Contact Administrative Assistant – Staff Directory: 
www.tml1.org/staff.php?ln_ses=1%7C4
Texas Municipal League (www.tml.org)
1821 Rutherford Lane, Suite 400
Austin, TX 78754
Phone: 512-231-7400
Career Center
Information/Submission: www.tml.org/careercenter.asp
Utah League of Cities and Towns (www.ulct.org)
50 South 600 East, Suite 150
Salt Lake City, UT 84102
Phone: 801-328-1601 or 1-800-852-8528
Job Bank
Submissions: www.ulct.org/jobbank/index.html
      
Vermont League of Cities & Towns (www.vlct.org)
89 Main Street, Suite 4
Montpelier, VT 05602
Phone: 802-229-9111
Classifieds
Information/Rates/Submissions:  
www.vlct.org/marketplace/classifiedads
Virginia Municipal League (www.vml.org)
13 East Franklin Street
Richmond, VA 23219
Phone: 804-649-8471
Marketplace – Jobs in Local Government
Information/Rates/Submissions:  
www.vml.org/JOBS/Jobs.html
Association of Washington Cities (www.awcnet.org)
1076 Franklin Street SE
Olympia, WA 98501
Phone: 360-753-4137
JobNet
Information/Submissions:  
www.awcnet.org/Jobnet/ForEmployers.aspx
50 of 69

--- page 51 ---
32	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
West Virginia Municipal League (www.wvml.org)
2020 Kanawha Boulevard
Charleston, WV 25311
Phone: 304-342-5564 or 1-800-344-7702
Classifieds
Information/Submissions: wvml@wvml.org
League of Wisconsin Municipalities (www.lwm-info.org)
122 West Washington Avenue, Suite 300
Madison, WI 53703
Phone: 608-267-2380
Classifieds
Information/Rates/Submissions:  
www.lwm-info.org/index.asp?Type=B_
JOB&SEC=%7B428BF440-C1B3-494D- 
8B98-837FE87BCFCA%7D
Wyoming Association of Municipalities (www.wyomuni.org)
315 West 27th Street
Cheyenne, WY 82001
Phone: 307-632-0398
Classifieds
Information:  
www.wyomuni.org/index.asp?Type=B_
JOB&SEC={AE206698-9002-49A0-983C-9CFCD28D226}
Submissions: wam@wyomuni.org
 
51 of 69

--- page 52 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
33
Appendix D:
Potential Interview Questions3
It is suggested that each member of the governing body ask the same question(s) of each candidate.
Candidate Thoughts on Role of 
Administrator
1.	 In your opinion, what role should the administra-
tor have in the community?
2.	 Do you believe the administrator should be an 
active member of a service or fraternal organiza-
tion? If yes, why?
3.	 How do you deal with the news media?
4.	 How do you deal with special-interest or single-
interest groups? 
5.	 What is the best way for an administrator to deal 
with an angry constituent?
Personnel Experience
1.	 How and when do you delegate responsibility and 
authority?
2.	 Have you ever been at the bargaining table and 
been actively engaged in negotiating an agreement?
3.	 Have you taken part in mediation, fact finding, 
or arbitration? Which ones? Please explain your 
experience in such process(es) including your role/
level of involvement and your thoughts regarding 
the outcomes of these experiences.
4.	 Have you ever had to discipline, demote, or fire an 
employee? Please elaborate.
5.	 How do you educate, encourage, and motivate 
your staff?
6.	 Are you familiar with state and federal laws relat-
ing to nondiscrimination, sexual harassment, 
employees with disabilities, and equal opportunity?
7.	 Have charges of violation of state or federal 
employment laws or a grievance ever been filed 
against you or your city? Please explain. 
8.	 What experience have you had in the preparation 
and implementation of personnel rules, regula-
tions, procedures, and compensation plans? Please 
describe.
Candidate Traits/Experience/
Qualifications
1.	 Provide a brief summary of your education and 
work experience.
2.	 Please briefly describe your experience with
a.	 Land use planning
b.	 Economic development/redevelopment
c.	 Tax increment financing
d.	 Business attraction and retention programs
e.	 Beautification programs
f.	 Business assistance programs—e.g., façade 
improvement, code compliance
g.	 Annexation
h.	 Subdivision policies and regulations, particu-
larly as they relate to storm-water management
i.	 Zoning
j.	 Building code administration
k.	 Municipal facilities expansion—in particular, 
water and wastewater utility expansions
3.	 How would you describe your leadership and man-
agement styles?
Interaction with Governing Body
1.	 What do you perceive to be the chief administra-
tor’s role in working with the governing body, local 
government attorney, and clerk? 
2.	 What are your expectations of the governing body 
in relation to
a.	 Yourself
b.	 Other staff
3.	 How and when do you communicate with the 
governing body?
3 Adapted from the Illinois City/County Management Association’s A Guide to the Recruitment and Selection of a Chief Administrative Officer. 
52 of 69

--- page 53 ---
34	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
9.	 What is your experience with employee benefits 
administration, group health insurance, and risk 
management?
10.	What in your opinion is the most serious issue 
today in local government personnel management?
11.	How and when should private sector resources (e.g., 
contractors) be used to provide village services?
Financial Management Experience 
1.	 Is there a difference between a financial plan and a 
budget? If so, please explain how they differ.
2.	 Are/were you the designated budget officer for 
your local government? Did you prepare and pres-
ent the budget to the council, and upon adoption, 
were you responsible for implementation? Please 
explain the outcomes of various budget processes 
and any challenges you encountered through bud-
get development through council adoption.  
3.	 What is your experience with debt financing? 
Please give an example.
4.	 Have you secured and administered any type of 
loans or grants? Please give an example.
5.	 Describe the most successful capital improvement 
project you were responsible for and what made it 
successful?
6.	 Have you reviewed our annual budget and/or 
annual report? If yes, what is your impression of 
our financial condition?
7.	 What is your opinion of “pay as you go” financ-
ing of maintenance and capital projects? Special 
assessments? Special taxing districts?
8.	 What type of financial reports do you provide the 
elected body and with what frequency?
9.	 Have you read our comprehensive or general plan? 
What are your impressions or thoughts? 
Intergovernmental Relations Experience
1.	 What experience have you had in dealing with
a.	 Councils of government/intergovernmental 
agencies?
b.	 County government?
c.	 Other local governments (schools, parks, etc.)?
d.	 State agencies?
e.	 Federal agencies?
f.	 State legislature?
g.	 Congress?
2.	 Do you feel comfortable “lobbying”?
External Organizational and Professional 
Association Relations
1.	 Have you been an active participant in the activi-
ties of a statewide municipal league, statewide city 
or county management association, the Inter-
national City/County Management Association 
(ICMA) or other professional organizations devoted 
to local government? Please give examples of your 
activities.
2.	 Are you an ICMA Credentialed Manager? If so, how 
do you fulfill your annual professional develop-
ment requirement? 
53 of 69

--- page 54 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
35
Appendix E
Relations with Applicants—Do’s and Don’ts 
Do: 
■
■Keep all candidates informed of their status at all 
times. 
■
■Identify one point of contact through which every-
thing flows, including contacts with candidates, 
reference checks, etc., in order to ensure that the 
information, messages, and details are consistent 
and that the process is fair and equitable.
■
■Keep all information strictly confidential through-
out the entire recruitment and selection process 
unless state law requires otherwise. 
■
■Create an outreach strategy that will ensure a 
diverse candidate pool.
■
■After carefully reviewing all applicant submittals, 
select a short list of the most promising candidates. 
■
■While maintaining the confidentiality, carefully 
check educational credentials and references on 
those candidates judged best qualified. 
■
■Invite those candidates judged best qualified 
for initial interviews at the local government’s 
expense. 
■
■Send the candidates under consideration an 
information packet that may include the outreach 
brochure and copies of your government’s budget, 
charter, annual report, and other pertinent docu-
ments; or provide the information on where to find 
this material on the agency’s website.
■
■Pay expenses of the candidates invited to a sec-
ond interview (and of their spouses/partners, if 
applicable). 
■
■Perform detailed background checks on the final 
candidate(s).
■
■Visit, if possible, the local governments in which 
the most promising candidates work. 
■
■Be prepared to enter into a formal written employ-
ment agreement with the successful candidate. 
■
■Promptly notify all other candidates once the 
selection has been made and the position has 
been accepted. However, it is best to wait until the 
selected finalist has accepted the position and the 
agency and candidate have mutually agreed to the 
provisions of the employment contract.
Don’t: 
■
■Let the selection process last too long. 
■
■Expect to get all the necessary information about 
the candidates from written material. 
■
■Forget that you are seeking overall management 
ability, not technical competence in one specialized 
field. 
■
■Forget to consider candidates who are assistant 
managers as well as current managers
■
■Overlook the need for candidates to possess 
municipal administrative experience and the 
advantages or value of college or university train-
ing, post degree training, and continued profes-
sional development. 
■
■Release for publication any names or local govern-
ments of candidates unless state law requires it. 
54 of 69

--- page 55 ---
36	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
Appendix F
ICMA Model Employment Agreement 
Introduction 
This Agreement, made and entered into this [date], by 
and between the [local government] of [state], [town/
city/county] a municipal corporation, (hereinafter 
called ”Employer”) and [name], (hereinafter called 
“Employee”) an individual who has the education, 
training and experience in local government manage-
ment and who, as a member of ICMA, is subject to the 
ICMA Code of Ethics, both of whom agree as follows: 
Section 1: Term
Recommended 
A. This agreement shall remain in full force in effect 
from [date] until terminated by the Employer or 
Employee as provided in Section 9, 10 or 11 of this 
agreement. 
Option 2 
The term of this agreement shall be for an initial 
period of [#] years from [date] to [date]. This Agree-
ment shall automatically be renewed on its anniver-
sary date for a [#] year term unless notice that the 
Agreement shall terminate is given at least [#] months 
(12 months recommended) before the expiration date. 
In the event the agreement is not renewed, all com-
pensation, benefits and requirements of the agreement 
shall remain in effect until the expiration of the term 
of the Agreement unless Employee voluntarily resigns. 
In the event that the Employee is terminated, as 
defined in Section 9 of this agreement, the Employee 
shall be entitled to all compensation including salary, 
accrued vacation and sick leave, car allowance paid 
in lump sum plus continuation of all benefits for the 
remainder of the term of this agreement. 
Section 2: Duties and Authority 
Employer agrees to employ [name] as [title] to per-
form the functions and duties specified in [legal 
reference] of the [local government] charter and by 
[legal reference] of the [local government] code and 
to perform other legally permissible and proper duties 
and functions. 
Section 3: Compensation
Recommended 
A.	 Base Salary: Employer agrees to pay Employee 
an annual base salary of [$ amount], payable in 
installments at the same time that the other man-
agement employees of the Employer are paid. 
B.	 This agreement shall be automatically amended to 
reflect any salary adjustments that are provided or 
required by the Employer’s compensation policies. 
C.	 Consideration shall be given on an annual basis to 
increase compensation. 
Option 1 
The Employer agrees to increase the compensation of 
the Employee dependent upon the results of the perfor-
mance evaluation conducted under the provisions of 
Section 12 of this Agreement. Increased compensation 
can be in the form of a salary increase and/or a bonus. 
Option 2 
The Employer agrees to increase the compensation by 
[%] each year. 
Option 3 
The Employer agrees to increase the compensation 
each year by the minimum of the average across the 
board increase granted to other employees of the 
Employer. 
Option 4 
The Employer agrees to increase the compensation of 
the Employee dependent upon the results of the per-
formance evaluation conducted under the provisions 
of Section 12 of this Agreement in addition to provid-
ing a fixed annual increase in the Employee’s salary 
based on an agreed upon economic indicator, such as 
the Consumer Price Index. 
Section 4: Health, Disability and Life  
Insurance Benefits Recommended 
A.	 The Employer agrees to provide and to pay the pre-
miums for health, hospitalization, surgical, vision, 
dental and comprehensive medical insurance for 
55 of 69

--- page 56 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
37
the Employee and his/her dependents equal to that 
which is provided to all other employees of the 
[local government] or, in the event no such plan 
exists, to provide coverage for the Employee and 
dependents. 
B.	 The Employer agrees to put into force and to make 
required premium payments for short term and 
long term disability coverage for the Employee. 
C.	 The Employee may elect to submit once per cal-
endar year to a complete physical examination, 
including a cardio-vascular examination, by a 
qualified physician selected by the Employee, the 
cost of which shall be paid by the Employer. 
D.	 The Employer shall pay the amount of premium 
due for term life insurance in the amount of three 
(3) times the Employee’s annual base salary, 
including all increases in the base salary during the 
life of this agreement. The Employee shall name 
the beneficiary of the life insurance policy. 
Option 1 
A.	 The Employer agrees to provide for health, hospi-
talization, surgical, vision, dental and comprehen-
sive medical insurance for the Employee and his/
her dependents equal to that which is provided to 
all other employees of the [local government] or, 
in the event no such plan exists, to provide cover-
age for the Employee and dependents. Employer 
shall pay all premiums for the Employee and the 
Employee’s dependents. 
B.	 The Employer agrees to put into force and to make 
required premium payments for short term and 
long term disability coverage for the Employee. 
C.	 The Employee may elect to submit once per cal-
endar year to a complete physical examination, 
including a cardio-vascular examination, by a 
qualified physician selected by the Employee, the 
cost of which shall be paid by the Employer. 
D.	 The Employer shall pay the amount of premium 
due for term life insurance in the amount of three 
(3) times the Employee’s annual base salary, 
including all increases in the base salary during the 
life of this agreement. The Employee shall name 
the beneficiary of the life insurance policy. 
Option 2 
1.	 The Employer shall provide travel insurance for the 
Employee while the Employee is traveling on the 
Employer’s business, with the Employee to name 
beneficiary thereof. Should the Employee die while 
on travel for the Employer, the Employer shall 
cover the full cost of retrieving and transporting 
the Employee’s remains back to the custody of the 
Employee’s family. 
Section 5: Vacation, Sick, and Military 
Leave 
Recommended 
A.	 Upon commencing employment, the Employee 
shall be credited with sick and vacation leave 
equal to the highest annual accrual provided to all 
other employees. The Employee shall then accrue 
sick and vacation leave on an annual basis at the 
highest rate provided to any other employees. 
B.	 Upon commencing employment, the Employee 
shall have access to a bank of 180 sick days to be 
used in the case of serious medical conditions. 
This leave can only be used to provide coverage 
during the waiting period between the onset of 
illness or disability and the point at which short or 
long term disability coverage takes effect and may 
be renewed after each occurrence. 
C.	 The Employee is entitled to accrue all unused 
leave, without limit, and in the event the Employ-
ee’s employment is terminated, either voluntarily 
or involuntarily, the Employee shall be compen-
sated for all accrued vacation time, all paid holi-
days, executive leave, and other benefits to date. 
D.	 The Employee shall be entitled to military reserve 
leave time pursuant to state law and [local govern-
ment] policy. 
Additional Option 
1.	 The Employee shall annually be credited with five 
(5) days of executive leave. 
Section 6: Automobile 
The Employee’s duties require exclusive and unre-
stricted use of an automobile to be mutually agreed 
upon and provided to the Employee at the Employ-
er’s cost, subject to approval by Employer which 
shall not be withheld without good cause. It shall be 
mutually agreed upon whether the vehicle is pur-
chased by the city, provided under lease to the city 
or to the Employee, or provided through a monthly 
allowance. 
Option 1 – Monthly Vehicle Allowance 
The Employer agrees to pay to the Employee, during 
the term of this Agreement and in addition to other 
56 of 69

--- page 57 ---
38	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
salary and benefits herein provided, the sum of [dol-
lar amount] per year, payable monthly, as a vehicle 
allowance to be used to purchase, lease, or own, oper-
ate and maintain a vehicle. The monthly allowance 
shall be increased annually by [% or $] amount. The 
Employee shall be responsible for paying for liability, 
property damage, and comprehensive insurance cover-
age upon such vehicle and shall further be responsible 
for all expenses attendant to the purchase, operation, 
maintenance, repair, and regular replacement of said 
vehicle. The Employer shall reimburse the Employee at 
the IRS standard mileage rate for any business use of 
the vehicle beyond the greater [local government] area. 
For purposes of this Section, use of the car within the 
greater [local government] area is defined as travel to 
locations within a _____ mile (recommended fifty (50) 
mile) radius of [local government office]. 
Option 2 – Employer Provided Vehicle 
The Employer shall be responsible for paying for liabil-
ity, property damage, and comprehensive insurance, 
and for the purchase (or lease), operation, mainte-
nance, repair, and regular replacement of a full-size 
automobile. 
Section 7: Retirement
Recommended 
1.	 The Employer agrees to enroll the Employee into 
the applicable state or local retirement system 
and to make all the appropriate contributions on 
the Employee’s behalf, for both the Employer and 
Employee share required. 
2.	 In addition to the Employer’s payment to the 
state or local retirement system (as applicable) 
referenced above, Employer agrees to execute all 
necessary agreements provided by ICMA Retire-
ment Corporation [ICMA-RC] or other Section 
457 deferred compensation plan for Employee’s 
[continued] participation in said supplementary 
retirement plan and, in addition to the base sal-
ary paid by the Employer to Employee, Employer 
agrees to pay an amount equal to [percentage of 
Employee’s base salary, fixed dollar amount of [$], 
or maximum dollar amount permissible under Fed-
eral and state law into the designated plan on the 
Employee’s behalf, in equal proportionate amount 
each pay period. The parties shall fully disclose to 
each other the financial impact of any amendment 
to the terms of Employee’s retirement benefit. 
In lieu of making a contribution to a Section 
457 deferred compensation plan, the dollar value 
of this contribution may be used, at the Employ-
ee’s option, to purchase previous service from 
another qualified plan. 
Option 1 
Recognizing that effective service with the community 
is based in part on the stability provided through a 
long-term relationship, the Employer shall provide a 
retirement annuity, as directed by the Employee, at a 
rate of [dollar amount], payable at the completion of 
each quarter of the fiscal year. This annuity serves as 
a retirement contribution and does not require further 
action of the Employer. 
Option 2 
The Employer shall adopt a qualified 401(a) defined 
contribution plan offered through ICMA Retirement 
Corporation for the Employee in the form of a money 
purchase plan to which the Employer shall contribute 
[%] of salary or [%] of compensation annually. 
2A. Option: The Employee shall be required to 
contribute [%] of base salary or [dollar amount] annu-
ally on a pre-tax basis as a condition of participation. 
Option 3 
The Employer shall adopt a qualified 401(a) profit-
sharing plan offered through ICMA Retirement Cor-
poration for the Employee in the form of a money 
purchase plan to which the Employer shall contribute 
[%] of all performance bonuses annually. 
3A. Option: The Employee shall be required to 
contribute [%] of base salary or [dollar amount] annu-
ally on a pre-tax basis as a condition of participation. 
Section 8: General Business Expenses 
Recommended 
1.	 Employer agrees to budget for and to pay for pro-
fessional dues and subscriptions of the Employee 
necessary for continuation and full participation 
in national, regional, state, and local associations, 
and organizations necessary and desirable for the 
Employee’s continued professional participation, 
growth, and advancement, and for the good of the 
Employer. 
2.	 Employer agrees to budget for and to pay for travel 
and subsistence expenses of Employee for profes-
sional and official travel, meetings, and occasions 
to adequately continue the professional develop-
ment of Employee and to pursue necessary official 
functions for Employer, including but not limited 
57 of 69

--- page 58 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
39
to the ICMA Annual Conference, the state league of 
municipalities, and such other national, regional, 
state, and local governmental groups and commit-
tees in which Employee serves as a member. 
3.	 Employer also agrees to budget for and to pay for 
travel and subsistence expenses of Employee for 
short courses, institutes, and seminars that are 
necessary for the Employee’s professional develop-
ment and for the good of the Employer. 
4.	 Employer recognizes that certain expenses of a 
non-personal but job related nature are incurred by 
Employee, and agrees to reimburse or to pay said 
general expenses. The finance director is autho-
rized to disburse such moneys upon receipt of duly 
executed expense or petty cash vouchers, receipts, 
statements or personal affidavits. 
5.	 The Employer acknowledges the value of having 
Employee participate and be directly involved in 
local civic clubs or organizations. Accordingly, 
Employer shall pay for the reasonable member-
ship fees and/or dues to enable the Employee to 
become an active member in local civic clubs or 
organizations. 
Option 1 
Technology: The Employer shall provide Employee 
with a computer, software, fax/modem, cell phone 
and pager required for the Employee to perform the 
job and to maintain communication. 
Section 9: Termination 
Recommended 
For the purpose of this agreement, termination shall 
occur when: 
1.	 The majority of the governing body votes to ter-
minate the Employee at a duly authorized public 
meeting. 
2.	 If the Employer, citizens or legislature acts to amend 
any provisions of the [charter, code, enabling legis-
lation] pertaining to the role, powers, duties, author-
ity, responsibilities of the Employee’s position that 
substantially changes the form of government, the 
Employee shall have the right to declare that such 
amendments constitute termination. 
3.	 If the Employer reduces the base salary, compensa-
tion or any other financial benefit of the Employee, 
unless it is applied in no greater percentage than 
the average reduction of all department heads, 
such action shall constitute a breach of this agree-
ment and will be regarded as a termination. 
4.	 If the Employee resigns following an offer to accept 
resignation, whether formal or informal, by the 
Employer as representative of the majority of the 
governing body that the Employee resign, then the 
Employee may declare a termination as of the date 
of the suggestion. 
5.	 Breach of contract declared by either party with a 
30 day cure period for either Employee or Employer. 
Written notice of a breach of contract shall be pro-
vided in accordance with the provisions of Section 20. 
Option 1 
In the event the Employee is terminated by the 
Employer during the six (6) months immediately fol-
lowing the seating and swearing-in of one or more 
new governing body members, and during such time 
that Employee is willing and able to perform his duties 
under this Agreement, then, Employer agrees to pay 
Severance in accordance with Section 10 plus salary 
and benefits in accordance with Section 10 for any 
portion of the six months not worked. 
Section 10: Severance 
Severance shall be paid to the Employee when 
employment is terminated as defined in Section 9. 
If the Employee is terminated, the Employer shall pro-
vide a minimum severance payment equal to one year 
salary at the current rate of pay. This severance shall 
be paid in a lump sum unless otherwise agreed to by 
the Employer and the Employee. 
The Employee shall also be compensated for all 
accrued sick leave, vacation time, all paid holidays, and 
executive leave. The Employer agrees to make a contri-
bution to the Employee’s deferred compensation account 
on the value of this compensation calculated using the 
rate ordinarily contributed on regular compensation. 
For a minimum period of one year following termi-
nation, the Employer shall pay the cost to continue the 
following benefits: 
1.	 Health insurance for the employee and all depen-
dents as provided in Section 4A 	
2.	 Life insurance as provided in Section 4D 
3.	 Short-term and long-term disability as provided in 
Section 4B 	
4.	 Car allowance or payment of lease, or provide 
option to buy city vehicle at depreciated value 
5.	 Out placement services should the employee desire 
them in an amount not to exceed [$10,000 to 
$15,000 recommended], and 
6.	 Any other available benefits. 
58 of 69

--- page 59 ---
40	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
If the Employee is terminated because of a convic-
tion of a felony, then the Employer is not obligated to 
pay severance under this section. 
Section 11: Resignation 
In the event that the Employee voluntarily resigns his/
her position with the Employer, the Employee shall 
provide a minimum of 30 days notice unless the par-
ties agree otherwise. 
Section 12: Performance Evaluation 
Employer shall annually review the performance 
of the Employee in [month] subject to a process, 
form, criteria, and format for the evaluation which 
shall be mutually agreed upon by the Employer and 
Employee. The process at a minimum shall include 
the opportunity for both parties to: (1) prepare a 
written evaluation, (2) meet and discuss the evalua-
tion, and (3) present a written summary of the evalu-
ation results. The final written evaluation should be 
completed and delivered to the Employee within 30 
days of the evaluation meeting. 
Section 13: Hours of Work 
It is recognized that the Employee must devote a great 
deal of time outside the normal office hours on busi-
ness for the Employer, and to that end Employee shall 
be allowed to establish an appropriate work schedule. 
Section 14: Outside Activities 
The employment provided for by this Agreement shall 
be the Employee’s sole employment. Recognizing 
that certain outside consulting or teaching opportuni-
ties provide indirect benefits to the Employer and the 
community, the Employee may elect to accept limited 
teaching, consulting or other business opportunities 
with the understanding that such arrangements shall 
not constitute interference with nor a conflict of interest 
with his or her responsibilities under this Agreement. 
Section 15: Moving and Relocation 
Expenses 
Recommended 
Employee agrees to establish residence within the cor-
porate boundaries of the local government, if required, 
within [number] months of employment, and thereafter 
to maintain residence within the corporate boundaries 
of the local government. 
A.	 Employer shall pay directly for the expenses of 
moving Employee and his/her family and personal 
property from [location name] to [location name]. 
Said moving expenses include packing, moving, 
storage costs, unpacking, and insurance charges. 
B.	 Employer shall reimburse Employee for actual 
lodging and meal expenses for his/her family in 
route from [location name] to [location name]. 
Mileage costs for moving two personal automobiles 
shall be reimbursed at the current IRS allowable 
rate of [cents amount] per mile. 
C.	 Employer shall pay Employee an interim housing 
supplement of [dollar amount] per month for a 
period commencing [date], and shall continue for 
a maximum of [# ] months, or until a home is pur-
chased and closed on, within the corporate limits 
of the [local government name], whichever event 
occurs first. 
D.	 Employer shall reimburse Employee for a total of 
[number] round trip air fares for Employee and 
his/her family [amount of total tickets] at any time 
during the first year of service to assist with house 
hunting and other facets of the transition and relo-
cation process. The Employee and his/her family 
may utilize and distribute the total [enter number] 
individual round trip tickets in any combina-
tion of individual members making the trips. The 
Employee shall be reimbursed for actual lodging 
and meal expenses incurred by Employee or his/
her family members on any trips conducted prior 
to relocation, as detailed herein. 
E.	 The Employee shall be reimbursed, or Employer 
may pay directly, for the expenses of packing and 
moving from temporary housing to permanent 
housing during the first year of this agreement. 
F.	 The Employer shall pay the Employee’s tax liability 
on all Employer provided benefits for relocation 
and housing. 
Option 1 
The Employer shall pay a lump sum payment of [$] to 
the Employee to cover relocation costs. 
Section 16: Home Sale and Purchase 
Expenses 
Recommended 
A.	 Employee shall be reimbursed for the direct costs 
associated with the sale of Employee’s existing 
personal residence, said reimbursement being lim-
ited to real estate agents’ fees, and other closing 
59 of 69

--- page 60 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
41
costs that are directly associated with the sale of 
the house. Said reimbursement should not exceed 
the sum of [$]. 
B.	 Employee shall be reimbursed for the costs inciden-
tal to buying or building a primary residence within 
the [local government], including real estate fees, 
title insurance, and other costs directly associated 
with the purchase or construction of the house, said 
reimbursement not to exceed the sum of [$]. 
Option 1 
Employer shall reimburse Employee for up to three 
discount points within thirty (30) days following pur-
chase of a home within the corporate limits of [local 
government name], in an effort to minimize mortgage 
rate differentials. 
Option 2 
Employer shall provide Employee with a _________ 
[fixed-interest, variable-interest, interest-only] loan 
to purchase a house. The amount of the loan shall 
not exceed $________. The loan shall be repaid in 
full to the Employer upon the occurrence of either of 
the following events: (i) the home, or the Employee’s 
interest in the home, is sold, transferred, or conveyed, 
or (ii) the Employee’s employment with the Employer, 
for any reason, is terminated. The Employer and 
Employee shall execute any and all documents neces-
sary to document this transaction. In the case where 
the value of the home decreases, the Employee shall 
not be required to repay the loan. 
Option 3 
Employer agrees to provide the Employee a loan for 
the purchase of a home in an amount not to exceed 
[dollar amount]. Employee shall pay Employer a 
monthly mortgage payment of [dollar amount] for 
interest, which is equal to the amount currently being 
paid in principle and interest for the current residence. 
Employee shall accrue equity at a rate of [% ] per 
month. 
Upon termination of employment with the 
Employer, Employee shall have a maximum of six 
months to sell the home while continuing to reside 
in it under the terms and conditions here. Should 
the home sell during the time period, Employer shall 
receive 100% of the proceeds minus the percentage 
of equity accrued by Employee as described above, 
and minus the amount of equity originally invested 
by Employee. Said accrued equity and original equity 
shall both be payable to Employee upon closing. Said 
original equity invested shall be calculated as an 
amount equal to the percentage of original purchase 
price, represented by the original equity investment 
by Employee, and adjusted to be the same percent-
age of equity in the current sale price of the home. All 
closing costs borne by the seller shall be split between 
Employer and Employee in a proportion equal to 
the equity share described above. Should the house 
fail to sell within the allotted six month time period, 
Employer has the option of following the previous 
arrangement to continue in place or to purchase 
equity, calculated as provided above, plus the original 
cost of all improvements made to the property. 
Section 17: Indemnification 
Beyond that required under Federal, State or Local 
Law, Employer shall defend, save harmless and 
indemnify Employee against any tort, professional 
liability claim or demand or other legal action, whether 
groundless or otherwise, arising out of an alleged act or 
omission occurring in the performance of Employee’s 
duties as [job title] or resulting from the exercise of 
judgment or discretion in connection with the perfor-
mance of program duties or responsibilities, unless the 
act or omission involved willful or wanton conduct. 
The Employee may request and the Employer shall not 
unreasonably refuse to provide independent legal rep-
resentation at Employer’s expense and Employer may 
not unreasonably withhold approval. Legal representa-
tion, provided by Employer for Employee, shall extend 
until a final determination of the legal action including 
any appeals brought by either party. The Employer 
shall indemnify employee against any and all losses, 
damages, judgments, interest, settlements, fines, court 
costs and other reasonable costs and expenses of legal 
proceedings including attorneys fees, and any other 
liabilities incurred by, imposed upon, or suffered by 
such Employee in connection with or resulting from 
any claim, action, suit, or proceeding, actual or threat-
ened, arising out of or in connection with the perfor-
mance of his or her duties. Any settlement of any claim 
must be made with prior approval of the Employer in 
order for indemnification, as provided in this Section, 
to be available. 
Employee recognizes that Employer shall have 
the right to compromise and unless the Employee is 
a party to the suit which Employee shall have a veto 
authority over the settlement, settle any claim or suit; 
unless, said compromise or settlement is of a per-
sonal nature to Employee. Further, Employer agrees 
to pay all reasonable litigation expenses of Employee 
throughout the pendency of any litigation to which 
60 of 69

--- page 61 ---
42	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
the Employee is a party, witness or advisor to the 
Employer. Such expense payments shall continue 
beyond Employee’s service to the Employer as long 
as litigation is pending. Further, Employer agrees to 
pay Employee reasonable consulting fees and travel 
expenses when Employee serves as a witness, advisor 
or consultant to Employer regarding pending litigation. 
Section 18: Bonding 
Employer shall bear the full cost of any fidelity or 
other bonds required of the Employee under any law 
or ordinance. 
Section 19: Other Terms and Conditions of 
Employment 
The Employer, only upon agreement with Employee, 
shall fix any such other terms and conditions of 
employment, as it may determine from time to time, 
relating to the performance of the Employee, provided 
such terms and conditions are not inconsistent with or 
in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement, the 
[local government] Charter or any other law. 
A. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, 
the Employee shall be entitled to the highest level of 
benefits that are enjoyed by other [appointed officials, 
appointed employees, department heads or general 
employees] of the Employer as provided in the Charter, 
Code, Personnel Rules and Regulations or by practice. 
Section 20: Notices 
Notice pursuant to this Agreement shall be given by 
depositing in the custody of the United States Postal 
Service, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: 
(1) 	 EMPLOYER: [Title and address of  
relevant official (mayor, clerk, etc.)] 
(2) 	 EMPLOYEE: [Name and address for tax  
purposes of Employee] 
Alternatively, notice required pursuant to this 
Agreement may be personally served in the same man-
ner as is applicable to civil judicial practice. Notice 
shall be deemed given as of the date of personal ser-
vice or as the date of deposit of such written notice in 
the course of transmission in the United States Postal 
Service. 
Section 21: General Provisions 
A.	 Integration. This Agreement sets forth and estab-
lishes the entire understanding between the 
Employer and the Employee relating to the employ-
ment of the Employee by the Employer. Any prior 
discussions or representations by or between the 
parties are merged into and rendered null and void 
by this Agreement. The parties by mutual writ-
ten agreement may amend any provision of this 
agreement during the life of the agreement. Such 
amendments shall be incorporated and made a 
part of this agreement. 
B.	 Binding Effect. This Agreement shall be binding 
on the Employer and the Employee as well as their 
heirs, assigns, executors, personal representatives 
and successors in interest. 
C.	 Effective Date. This Agreement shall become effec-
tive on ______, ____. 
D.	 Severability. The invalidity or partial invalidity 
of any portion of this Agreement will not effect 
the validity of any other provision. In the event 
that any provision of this Agreement is held to 
be invalid, the remaining provisions shall be 
deemed to be in full force and effect as if they have 
been executed by both parties subsequent to the 
expungement or judicial modification of the invalid 
provision. 
61 of 69

--- page 62 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
43
Index 
Advertising campaigns
function of, 8
professional organizations that post vacancies for, 
27–32
Alabama League of Municipalities, 27
Alaska Municipal League, 27
American Society for Public Administration (ASPA), 27
Applicants
diverse, 9
external, 9
internal, 9
relations, 10–11, 35
status notification for, 11, 35
Application forms, 10
Arkansas Municipal League, 28
Association of Idaho Cities, 28
Association of Washington Cities, 31
Background checks, 13
Candidates
background checks for, 13
guidelines to inform, 13–14
interview guidelines for, 14–15
potential interview questions for, 33–34
selection of, 13
Chief administrators. See also Selection
community engagement in profile of, 6
compensation of, 7, 17–18, 25–26
management of organization during recruitment of, 2
performance evaluation for, 19
profile development for, 6, 7
reasons for vacancies of, 3
recruitment assistance from retiring, 7
responsibilities of, 1, 20
transition process for, 19
Code of Ethics (International City/County Manage-
ment Association), 1, 21–24
Colorado Municipal League, 28
Community involvement
in chief administrator profile, 6
in interviewing process, 15 – 16
Commuting expenses, 18
Compensation Guidelines (International City/County 
Management Association), 17, 25–26
Compensation package
changes in, 26
elements of, 7, 17–18
guidelines for, 25–26
negotiation of, 17 – 18, 25
Confidentiality, 11, 12
Connecticut Conference of Municipalities, 28
Council-manager government, 3
Delaware League of Local Governments, 28
Diverse applicants, 9
Elections, vacancy occurring prior to, 3
Employment agreements, 18, 26, 36 – 42
Florida League of Cities, 28
Geographic considerations, 8
Georgia Municipal Association, 28
Housing, 18
Hybrid recruitment method, 4, 5
ICMA Range Riders, 2, 5, 9
Illinois Municipal League, 28
Indiana Association of Cities and Towns, 28
In-house expertise recruitment method, 4
Initial interviews, 14
Interim administrators, 2
Interim management, 2
International City/County Management Association 
(ICMA)
Code of Ethics, 1, 21–24
Compensation Guidelines, 7, 17, 25–26
Model Employment Agreement, 18, 36 – 42
position vacancy postings through, 27
Range Rider, 2, 5, 9
salary information, source of, 17
Voluntary Credentialing Program, 6
International Hispanic Network (IHN), 27
Interviews
initial, 14
questions for, 14–15, 33–34
62 of 69

--- page 63 ---
44	
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator
second, 15
selecting candidates for, 13
structure of, 14
Iowa League of Cities, 29
Kentucky League of Cities, 29
League of Arizona Cities and Towns, 28
League of California Cities, 28
League of Kansas Municipalities, 29
League of Minnesota Cities, 29
League of Nebraska Municipalities, 30
League of Oregon Cities, 31
League of Wisconsin Municipalities, 32
Local government, 7, 10
Local government managers, 1
Local government work session, 19
Louisiana Municipal Association, 29
Maine Municipal Association, 29
Management, during recruitment, 2
Maryland Municipal League, 29
Massachusetts Municipal Association, 29
Media, role of, 12
Michigan Municipal League, 29
Mississippi Municipal League, 29
Missouri Municipal League, 29
Montana League of Cities and Towns, 30
Municipal Association of South Carolina, 31
National Association of Counties (NACo), 17, 27
National Association of County Administrators 
(NACA), 27
National Forum for Black Public Administrators 
(NFBPA), 27
National League of Cities (NLC), 27
Negotiation process, 17–18
Nevada League of Cities and Municipalities, 30
New Hampshire Local Government Center, 30
New Jersey State League of Municipalities, 30
New Mexico Municipal League, 30
New York State Conference of Mayors and Municipal 
Officials, 30
North Carolina League of Municipalities, 30
North Dakota League of Cities, 30
Ohio Municipal League, 30
Oklahoma Municipal League, 30
Orientation meetings, 19
Outreach strategies, 8–9
Outside expertise recruitment method, 4
Pennsylvania League of Cities & Municipalities, 31
Performance evaluation, 19
Professional organizations, 27–32
Questions, interview, 14, 33–34
Recruitment
advertising as element of, 8
development of administrator profile, 6, 7
geographic scope as issue for, 8
hybrid method for, 5
in-house expertise method for, 4
initiation of, 3
management of organization during, 2
outreach strategies for, 8–9
outside expertise method for, 4
schedule for, 7
Recruitment process
confidentiality in, 11
elements of, 10–11
role of media in, 12
Reference checks, 15
Relocation expenses, 18
Resignation, 3, 7
Résumés
acknowledgement of, 11
confidentiality of, 12
review of, 13
Rhode Island League of Cities and Towns, 31
Salary, 17
Schedule, recruitment, 7
Second interviews, 15
Selection
announcement of decision in, 19
application review as step in, 13
candidates to be interviewed as step in, 13
community involvement in, 15–16
decision process for, 16
interviews for, 14–15, 33–34
inviting candidate’s spouse/partner as step in, 15
reference checks as step in, 15
staff involvement in, 16
Severance provisions, 26
Souses/partners, candidate, 15
South Dakota Municipal League, 31
Staff members, involvement in candidate selection, 16
State municipal leagues, 27–32
Status notification, 11, 35
Temporary housing, 18
63 of 69

--- page 64 ---
Recruitment Guidelines for Selecting a Local Government Administrator	
45
Tennessee Municipal League, 31
Termination, 3, 7
Texas Municipal League, 31
Transparency, 26
Utah League of Cities and Towns, 31
Vacancies
professional organizations that post position, 27–32
reasons for, 3, 7
Vermont League of Cities & Towns, 31
Virginia Municipal League, 31
Voluntary Credentialing Program (International City/
County Management Association), 6
West Virginia Municipal League, 32
Work sessions, initial for expectations, goals, and 
objectives, 19
Wyoming Association of Municipalities, 32
64 of 69

--- page 65 ---
65 of 69

--- page 66 ---
66 of 69

--- page 67 ---
67 of 69

--- page 68 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 23-7158
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
February 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Consideration of Winter Storm Damage Relief Fund
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide feedback and guidance to staff on contributing City funds to relief efforts for residents and businesses that 
suffered damage resulting from the recent winter storms and determine the criteria and administration method for 
distributing funding.
BACKGROUND:
At its regular meeting on January 17, 2023 during reports and announcements, Mayor Lee requested Council support for 
consideration of a City contribution to a relief fund for residents and businesses who suffered property damage during the 
most recent winter storms.  Council agreed to agendize a study session for February 6, 2023.
During the staff presentation at the study session, staff will present considerations and options for Council and request 
feedback and direction.  Specifically, Council will be requested to provide feedback and direction on the following:
-
The amount of City funds to be contributed to this relief fund;
-
How the funds will be administered (i.e. through a third party or internally by City staff);
-
The criteria for residents and businesses to qualify for and receive funding to address property damage.
BUDGET IMPACT:
A contribution to a relief fund would be made from available fund balance in the General Fund. Given current estimates 
for the year end actuals for the current fiscal year, other priority funding efforts such as capital contributions, and the 
existing fund balance in the General Fund, staff estimates that a contribution of up to $150,000 can be appropriated 
without negatively impacting funding for operations over the short or long term.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
68 of 69

--- page 69 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Drew Corbett, City Manager
dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7002
69 of 69