--- page 1 ---
DATE:   July 7, 2021 
TO:
Captain David Peruzzaro
FROM:  Lieutenant Todd Mefford
RE:
Summary of Quarterly Audit of SMPD ‘End-User’ ALPR Data for Q2, 2021
Introduction
Per SMPD Standard Operating Procedure 205, our Department conducts quarterly audits of our ‘End-User’ data to 
ensure our employees are reviewing data in a manner consistent with policy and procedure. The data reviewed is 
generated and provided by the Northern California Regional Intelligence Center (NCRIC) and the Flock Platform 
Portal as they house data for the respective platforms. The results of these audits are summarized and presented to 
the Support Services Captain for review and later for retention by the Support Services Division.
Quarter 1, 2021 
PIPs / BOSS (January, February, March)
Our employees conducted 43 searches of ALPR historical data through the NCRIC platform, which is almost a 300% 
decrease in quarterly usage. This increase is due to the new Flock ALPR Platform coming online.  A number of 
searches were conducted as tests to check that the system was functioning correctly. 95% of all searches were 
determined to list the required criteria as required by our policy and procedure. A review with the end-user found 
that the three searches were appropriate under our Department policy and procedure.  As is usual, the top two 
reasons for searches were “Stolen or Wanted” or “Criminal or Arrest.”
Audit Focus
Q1/2021
Quarterly Average
Number of searches
43
102
Number of searches with required criteria (as %)
93
99.5%
Case numbers listed
27
83
Non-case numbers listed
15
19
(Reasons for search)
Missing/Amber/Silver Alert
0
1.5
Criminal or Arrest
14
54
Special Event
2
0.17
Stolen or Wanted
27
39
Violent Crime
5
7
INTEROFFICE COMMUNICATION
San Mateo Police Department 
Support Services Division

--- page 2 ---
Quarter 1, 2021 
Flock Safety (January, February, March)
The Flock ALPR platform went online for all officers to use in mid-February.  Because this is a new platform, a large 
portion of the searches were test or blank “reason” searches in order to ensure correct functionality with the 
hardware (cameras) and software.  The test or blank searches were conducted by primarily two employees.  
“Reason” for search, as contained in the above chart is not included in this chart because the Flock and NCRIC 
platforms report data differently.  When employees request a search for historical data through the NCRIC portal, 
they are required to select one of the reasons provided in the dropdown menu.  Flock does not have that feature 
and Reason is entered manually.  
Training has been completed and there was a dramatic improvement on required data entered on the Flock 
platform.  A memo adjusting procedure and emphasizing required criteria was shared with all end users.  I 
anticipate this trend will continue with consistent monitoring and reinforcement.  Quarterly Average is not available 
because this is the first quarter the Flock platform is being used.
Audit Focus
Q1/2021
Quarterly Average
Number of searches
3069
Number of searches with required criteria (as %)
97%
Case numbers listed
2109
Non-case numbers listed
960
Analysis and Conclusion
Our Department ‘End-User’ activity during the time period was consistent with Department policy and procedure. 
Our staff used this technology platform above normal usage rates, which is reasonable given the types of 
investigations they were conducting. No additional efforts are recommended.