--- page 1 ---
DATE:   January 20, 2022 
TO:
Captain David Peruzzaro
FROM:  Lieutenant Todd Mefford
RE:
Summary of Quarterly Audit of SMPD ‘End-User’ ALPR Data for Q4, 2021
Introduction
Per SMPD Standard Operating Procedure 205, our Department conducts quarterly audits of our ‘End-User’ data to 
ensure our employees are reviewing data in a manner consistent with policy and procedure. The data reviewed is 
generated and provided by the Northern California Regional Intelligence Center (NCRIC) and the Flock Platform 
Portal as they house data for the respective platforms. The results of these audits are summarized and presented to 
the Support Services Captain for review and later for retention by the Support Services Division.
Quarter 4, 2021 
PIPs / BOSS4 (October, November and December)
During this last quarter, only one ALPR camera was used/functional in this time period.  We are phasing out the PIPs 
cameras and only collected data from one vehicle during the month of October 2021.  We continue to upload this 
data into NCRIC via BOSS4 software. The following are the current end user data for the PIPs/BOSS queries from the 
NCRIC.   ALPR plate reads are continuing to decrease, as anticipated, as we move away from this technology.  
263,227 reads in Q2 and 199,256 reads now in Q3 and 2738 reads in Q4 (October only).
Audit Focus
Q4/2021
Quarterly Average
Number of searches
71
60
Number of searches with required criteria (as %)
100%
99.6%
Quarter 4, 2021 
Flock Safety (October, November & December)
Our department continues to utilize Flock effectively and often.  Flock queries are part of an investigative process 
that officers/detectives are utilizing effectively to solve crime, locate missing persons at risk which is something that 
was not available to us in the past.  We continue to audit end-user usage and have found that officers are in 
compliance.  Our effort to have officers input the reason for the query has been successful with either a case/CAD 
number but we still send out reminders of the requirements because of the importance and transparency of this 
program.  
There continues to be a high number of entries for Flock that list “test” as the reason for query.  This is due to the 
continued effort to keep the cameras calibrated and troubleshoot as problems are identified.  We continue to work 
with Flock to maintain the functionality of the readers.
INTEROFFICE COMMUNICATION
San Mateo Police Department 
Support Services Division

--- page 2 ---
Audit Focus
Q4/2021
2021 Quarterly Average
Number of searches
7,088
6260
Number of searches with required criteria (as %)
100%
99.6%
Analysis and Conclusion
Our Department ‘End-user’ activity during the time period was consistent with Department policy and procedure. 
Our staff used this technology platform appropriately.  No additional efforts are recommended.