--- page 1 ---
From:
Stephan Casazza
To:
Juliana Santiago
Subject:
Fw: Usage of Flock Search Platform
Date:
Thursday, May 14, 2026 8:23:11 AM
Emails....
From: Phoenix O'Rourke <porourke@cityofsanmateo.org>
Sent: Wednesday, December 10, 2025 10:18 PM
To: Police - Sworn Officers <Police-SwornOfficers@cityofsanmateo.org>; Police - Dispatchers
<Police-Dispatchers@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: Usage of Flock Search Platform
 
Hello Everyone, 
To piggyback on Lt.'s email, I will be coming to lineups over the next couple of weeks to
share some info I received from a training I just attended as well as do a brief training on the
'Search' feature since it has recently changed. I will come to dispatch as well. 
In the meantime, if you could please 'Reply' (not 'Reply All') to this email with any questions
you may have regarding the 'Search' feature I would greatly appreciate it as I can better
prepare my presentation for you all. 
Thanks everyone and have a great week.
Phoenix
 
From: Stephan Casazza <casazza@cityofsanmateo.org>
Sent: Wednesday, December 10, 2025 1:19 PM
To: Police - Sworn Officers <Police-SwornOfficers@cityofsanmateo.org>; Police - Dispatchers
<Police-Dispatchers@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Usage of Flock Search Platform
 
Hi everyone-
I would like to remind everyone of the importance of entering clear, legitimate, and
specific reasons when using the Flock search platform. Accurate documentation is not
only a departmental requirement—it protects both you and our agency by ensuring
transparency, accountability, and proper use of the system.
All searches must be tied to a valid law enforcement purpose.  When using the search
platform, please make sure you are referencing a case number, cad number, warrant

--- page 2 ---
number, or outside agency case/incident number.   Reasons such as "investigation" or
"routine check" are not acceptable.
If you are unsure whether a search purpose is valid, consult with your supervisor before
proceeding.
Thank you,
Lieutenant Steve Casazza
San Mateo Police Department
Patrol Division B-Team- Area 2
200 Franklin Parkway
San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7663