source: packet.pdf
sha256: c5195fab46a9b0eabc7ef6c3592c33ba018c014cabb6e1e8a9b93f220edcfbd1
pages: 13
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting
January 18, 2022
5:30 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rick Bonilla, Mayor
Diane Papan, Deputy Mayor
Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Eric Rodriguez
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNMENT CODE 54943(b)(3) / AB 361 (2021) –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: Tuesday, January 18, 2022 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 896 4307 8251
Passcode: 640006
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
1.
Density Bonus Concessions and Residential Densities in Mixed-Use Projects – Policy Discussion
Receive information on the use of state density bonus law concessions for height exceptions and residential
densities in mixed-use development projects and provide staff with direction on next steps.
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the consideration of these items. Following the meeting a report of action
from Closed Session will be provided if required.
2.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9)
Name of Case: Marcia A. Sklar et al. v. State, et al., San Mateo Superior Court Case No.: 19CIV03718
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
continue on next page
1 of 13

--- page 2 ---
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your
comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 13

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 21-5628
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
January 18, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Density Bonus Concessions and Residential Densities in Mixed-Use Projects – Policy Discussion 
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive information on the use of state density bonus law concessions for height exceptions and residential densities in 
mixed-use development projects and provide staff with direction on next steps.
BACKGROUND:
On November 1, 2021, the City Council requested information on use of state density bonus law concessions and height 
exceptions for mixed-use development projects that include a residential component. This discussion was prompted by 
recent direction and guidance to developers from the Planning Commission during pre-application review to add more 
housing to their proposed projects in order to achieve an improved jobs-housing balance as new development projects are 
reviewed and approved. 
The purpose of this study session is to provide information on the requested topics and receive input from the City Council 
on the following questions:
1.
Height Concessions and use of state density bonus – Consistent with the state density bonus law, should the City 
investigate options for how to determine whether a requested concession or incentive, such as a height exception, 
achieves an actual and identifiable cost reduction to provide for affordable housing costs, and/or establish 
additional density bonuses, concessions, and waivers to incentivize projects to provide more housing?
2.
Mixed-Use Projects – Apart from the state density bonus law, should the City establish a minimum density for 
mixed-use projects that have a residential component, or do something else to incentivize mixed-use projects to 
provide more housing? 
Density Bonus and Height
The state density bonus law (California Government Code Sections 65915 – 65918) allow residential development projects 
that provide certain percentages of below market rate (BMR) housing units to receive density bonuses over and above a 
local jurisdictions’ maximum densities and receive concessions (aka incentives) and waivers1 for reductions in development 
standards such as setbacks, floor area ratio limitations, height limits, and parking requirements.  The statute has been 
amended to provide that a developer need not seek a density bonus in order to request a concession or waiver.   While the 
statute establishes minimum affordability requirements for density bonus concessions, a local agency has the discretion to 
further incentivize development.  For example, this could be achieved by either lowering the threshold at which density 
1 Projects that satisfy the requirements of the state density bonus law are entitled to one to four development incentives or 
concessions for reduced site development standards that result in “identifiable and actual cost reductions to provide for affordable 
housing costs”. Such projects can also qualify for unlimited number of waivers from development standards that could physically 
preclude project construction.
3 of 13

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
bonuses or density bonus concessions are available2 or increasing the number of available concessions based on the 
amount of housing provided. The City’s current density bonus ordinance (Zoning Code Chapter 27.15) exceeds these 
minimum state requirements by determining that concession requests for reduced setbacks, increased maximum lot 
coverage and floor area ratios, and reduction in parking standards are deemed to not have any adverse public health and 
safety impact as long as the project remains consistent with the General Plan and applicable design requirements. Thus, 
requests for such concessions do not require additional documentation or justification from developers, other than a cost 
reduction analysis.  
There are many recent examples of residential and mixed-use development projects that have been approved and built in 
the City that have provided BMR units while benefiting from density bonus provisions. Recent projects that have utilized 
state density bonus include Kiku Crossing, 303 Baldwin, Concar Passage, Bay Meadows Montara, Central Park South, and 
1650 S. Delaware. 
Since 1990, the City has had voter-approved initiatives in place (Measures H, P, and Y) that have limited building height (55 
feet), residential density, and floor area for new development. Historically, developers have been able to exceed these 
limitations in certain areas of the City upon incorporating community benefits with project proposals. More recently, 
developers have requested concessions under state density bonus law to exceed the City’s height limit by including 
affordable units as part of their projects, instead of providing additional amenities or community benefits under the City’s 
Community Benefits Program3. 
These height concession requests were reviewed by staff (including the City Attorney’s Office), and it was determined that 
the state density bonus law allowance for additional height through a concession would supersede any general plan or 
zoning limit, including those enacted by voter initiative (such as Measure Y).  The state density bonus law provides that no 
development standard (including a height limit) can be applied that will have the effect of “physically precluding” the 
construction of a project with the density and concessions allowed by the statute.  In order to obtain a concession, a 
developer must still demonstrate that the requested concession results in an “actual and identifiable cost reduction to 
provide affordable housing.”
Thus, a developer can potentially exceed the City’s height limit through use of a concession under state density bonus law 
(e.g., providing one affordable unit in a five-unit project with office/retail), without a commensurate community benefit. In 
some cases, a developer could also layer the community benefits height exception and density bonus concessions, 
resulting in building heights over 75 feet. 
Given how state density bonus concessions can be utilized to exceed the City’s height limits, staff is seeking input from the 
Council on the following questions:
1.
Consistent with state density bonus law, should the City investigate options for how to determine when height 
concessions result in “actual and identifiable cost reductions to provide for affordable housing costs” in order to 
create a more standardized and consistent process for new development?
2.
Should the City consolidate the community benefits and the density bonus programs to provide a menu of options 
for the developer, such as: 
a.
Additional concessions (e.g., developers that propose housing beyond minimum mandates can qualify for 
additional concessions); and/or
b.
Fast-tracking certain types of affordable housing projects. 
2 State density bonus law currently defines a “housing development” which is eligible for a density bonus, concession, or waiver as any 
project including five or more residential units.
3 On March 15, 2021, the City Council adopted a Resolution to create an interim process for determining community benefits and 
public improvements including for projects providing affordable housing above the minimum inclusionary or density bonus 
requirement. A comprehensive and detailed community benefits program would be completed in conjunction with the 2040 General 
Plan Update.
4 of 13

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Minimum Density for Mixed Use Projects (Jobs-Housing Balance)
The Planning Commission, as part of its review of recent development pre-applications, has encouraged applicants to 
include additional housing units in office and commercial projects as part of an overarching objective to create a better 
jobs-housing balance in the City. Typically, a jobs-housing balance in a jurisdiction is achieved at a programmatic level 
through adoption of citywide policies and implementing ordinances and other actions identified in the Housing Element or 
the General Plan. The City’s Housing Element, as required under state law, also identifies programs to meet the existing 
and projected housing needs for the City, including its fair share of the Regional Housing Needs Allocation (RHNA).
 
Existing City Housing Element Program H 2.12 encourages the development of mixed-use projects in existing commercial 
areas and adjacent to transit nodes, which can be accomplished through floor area and/or height bonuses for residential 
development in selected areas of the City by incorporating community benefits. The City has several office and commercial 
zones that allow for residential development and mixed-use projects, either by right or through a special use permit. It’s 
important to note that a significant number of projects over the last five years, located in commercial or mixed-use zones 
in the City, have voluntarily included a residential component to take advantage of concessions and waivers under the 
density bonus laws. However, the development community has provided input that streamlined processing times can 
incentivize more housing development. Staff is currently working on several streamlining efforts, which are described 
below. While the number of residential units in these projects varied widely, the resulting average residential density is 
approximately 48 units/acre (Attachment 2 – Commercial and Mixed-use Project List). 
Currently, the City does not have an established minimum density or percentage of floor area requirement for the 
residential component in a mixed-use development. State Housing Element laws (Government Code Section 65583.2(h)) 
allow for very low and low-income housing to be accommodated on mixed-use sites when those sites allow for 100% 
residential uses and require 50% residential uses within mixed use projects. Given the overarching interest in facilitating 
the development of more housing, staff is seeking input from the Council on the following questions:
1.
Should the City establish a minimum density or percentage of floor area requirement for mixed-use projects that 
have a residential component?
2.
Should this effort be initiated in advance of adoption of the City’s updated Housing Element (beginning of 2023) or 
as an implementation item following adoption?
Other Efforts
In addition to the topics outlined above, staff is working to update and streamline the City’s development review and 
permitting processes for all development projects, including those that include housing. These efforts include:
1.
Streamlining the pre-application process and shortening the timeline for large projects; 
2.
Conducting code amendments that would streamline minor public projects and modifications for approved 
projects; 
3.
Updating handouts and checklist materials, and establishing clearer procedures for development projects; 
4.
Conducting developer and homeowner informational outreach as procedures and processes are updated; 
5.
Exploring options to fast-track the permitting of accessory dwelling units (ADUs) and certain categories of 
affordable housing projects; and
6.
Updating the CDD website for greater clarity, access to information, and ease of use.
NEXT STEPS:
A joint City Council/Planning Commission study session on the Housing Element Update is scheduled on February 7, 2022. 
This study session is intended to present updated information on the City’s sites inventory and compliance with fair 
housing requirements, as well as facilitate a discussion on policies that should be included in the updated Housing 
Element. The topics included in this study session can also be brought back for further discussion and consideration based 
on the input provided by the Council. If more immediate policy action is desired, ahead of the Housing Element Update, 
staff will work on establishing a scope of work and timeline for further Council consideration. 
5 of 13

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
Depending on the nature of the Council’s direction, the costs associated with the research and development of the 
necessary code amendments and/or policies would be covered under the Community Development Department’s existing 
operating budget. However, if the direction results in the need to retain outside consultants to complete the work, the 
associated costs will require further evaluation to determine the appropriate funding source. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because the City Council is providing direction to staff and is not taking 
action at this time. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met. A courtesy notice was included in the Planning Division biweekly e-
newsletter to the community. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Interim Community Benefits Program Resolution
Att 2 - Commercial and Mixed-use Project List
STAFF CONTACT
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager
msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7203
Zach Dahl, Community Development Deputy Director
zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org 
650-522-7207
6 of 13

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. 27 (2021) 
ADOPT INTERIM COMMUNITY BENEFITS PROGRAM
WHEREAS, property owners and applicants periodically request to enter into development agreements
to vest their development entitlements for longer periods of time; 
WHEREAS, the Government Code Section 65865 authorizes cities to enter into development agreements
with developers, and the City of San Mateo adopted development agreement procedures by resolution
Resolution No. 120, 1990); 
WHEREAS, property owners and applicants periodically request to exceed the City’s standard height
limit in certain areas of the City; 
WHEREAS, there are several General Plan Land-Use Element policies that allow for increased height in
exchange for community benefit/ public improvements
in certain areas of the City; 
WHEREAS, longer entitlement vesting periods and increases in height limit increase the value of the
development. In exchange for their development value increasing, an applicant must provide community
benefits/ public improvements; 
WHEREAS, developments vary in size, scope and geographical location, and therefore the value of a
vesting period extension and height increase will vary by project; 
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the monetary value of community benefits should be proportional
to the increase in value associated with an extended vesting period or height increase;  
WHEREAS, an economic land use expert can estimate the monetary value of the extended vesting
period and height increase,  
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that an applicant must outreach to the immediate neighborhood
as
part of the required preliminary planning application process. During that outreach, the developer should seek
feedback regarding community benefits;   
WHEREAS, a list of potential community benefits is attached to this resolution. The City Council may
update this list on a periodic basis; 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES
that:  
1. 
An economic land-use consultant should be hired by the City when an applicant requests to enter into a
development agreement to extend the vesting period of their development or exceed the height limit. 
This expert will confirm the appropriate monetary value of the proposed community benefits given the
value of the extended vesting period or increased development standards. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: AE56AD47- 597B-412A-B1E6-176E7D5D3B47
7 of 13

--- page 8 ---
Resolution No. 27 (2021)  
Page 2 of 3
Interim Community Benefits Framework for Future Development Projects
2. Onsite and neighborhood- focused benefits should be prioritized during development negotiations. The
specific improvements will vary by development, but in all cases, community input should help shape
the community benefit package. A list is possible improvement
is attached to this resolution. 
3. 
This program shall be in effect for an interim period, until such time that the General Plan Update and
related zoning code update is adopted. The General Plan and Zoning Code Update process will include
extensive community outreach focused on community benefits, and will include adoption more detailed
community benefits program; 
4. In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15061 (b)(3), adopting this interim program is not a project
covered by CEQA, because the City Council is providing guidance and future development agreements
and development projects will be analyzed independently under CEQA. 
RESOLUTION NO. 27 (2021) adopted by the City Council of the City of San Mateo, California, at a regular meeting
held on March 15, 2021, by the following vote of the City Council: 
AYES:  
Council Members Rodriguez, Bonilla, Goethals, Lee and Papan
NOES:  
None
ABSENT:  
None
ATTEST: 
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
DocuSign Envelope ID: AE56AD47- 597B-412A-B1E6-176E7D5D3B47
8 of 13

--- page 9 ---
Resolution No. 27 (2021)  
Page 3 of 3
Interim Community Benefits Framework for Future Development Projects
Resolution Exhibit 1: List of Community Benefits and Public Improvements
Transportation
Implementation of improvements identified in Traffic Action Plans ( TAPs) 
Infrastructure – curb, gutter, drainage, green infrastructure, trash capture, roadway, traffic
signal upgrades, traffic signal interconnect/ communication
network improvements
nearby
the project site (beyond those normally provided via project nexus) 
Nearby bike and pedestrian improvements
Nearby pedestrian- scale lighting improvements
Nearby ADA right-of-way improvements
Contribution for last-mile transportation services ( i.e. shuttles) 
Payment toward traffic improvements above the required Transportation Impact Fee (TIF) 
Contribution to public parking fund (currently only available for projects within Central
Parking Improvement District area, potential to collect funds to provide help provide public
parking near train stations) 
Housing
Additional affordable housing units above the inclusionary or density bonus requirement
Acquisition of existing market rate housing units to convert into affordable
Contribution towards City housing funds
Contribution of land for affordable housing
Parks/ Open Space
Contribution for park improvements
Contribution for recreation center improvements/ construction
Contribution of land for public parks
Provide additional privately owned public open spaces (POPOs) within project (i.e. Linear Park
at Bay Meadows I) 
Other
Provide day care within project
Monetary contribution to the City
DocuSign Envelope ID: AE56AD47- 597B-412A-B1E6-176E7D5D3B47
9 of 13

--- page 10 ---
City of San Mateo
Community Development Department
Planning Application or 
Development Name
Description
No. of 
Dwelling 
Units
 % of Project 
Residential 
(approx)
Base Zoning
Lot Size/ 
Acres
Dwelling 
Units per 
Acre
Hampton Inn & Suites 
2946 S NORFOLK ST
Demolition of 166-room hotel. 
Construct new 5-story, 182-room hotel 
structure. 
0
0%
C2-1: Commercial 
that allows for 
hotels
2.28
N/A
Franklin Offices SPAR 
1 Franklin Parkway
Franklin Templeton Offices Phase II - 
0
0%
BMSP: Office per 
the Bay Meadows 
Specific Plan
9.86
N/A
Westlake Facade Remodel & 
Addition
520 S EL CAMINO REAL 100
Renovate exterior façade of an existing 
9-story office building and add square
feet to the 2nd and 3rd floors at the
rear.
0
0%
C2-2, E2-2, R-6D: 
Commercial, office 
and DT residential
2.32
N/A
180 E. 3rd Ave
Demolish existing commercial building. 
Construct new 3-story retail and office 
building. 
0
0%
CBD: Commercial, 
office, DT 
residential
0.16
N/A
21 Lodato Ave Triplex 
Demolish existing single family 
residence and construct three new, 
detached townhomes. Special use 
Permit
3
100%
C2-1: Commercial
0.21
14
Mode Apartments
2089 PACIFIC BLVD
Conversion of eight (8) two-bedroom 
units into 16 studio units for a net 
increase of 8  units. 
8
100%
TOD: Mixed use
2.37
3
405 E. 4th Ave. Mixed Use
Demo 2 historic structures. Construct 4-
story mixed-use building 
15
16%
CBD-S: Commercial 
and DT residential
0.51
30
Commercial & Mixed-Use Planning Approvals between January 1, 2017 and December 15, 2021
City Council Study Session
January 18, 2022
1
10 of 13

--- page 11 ---
Planning Application or 
Development Name
Description
No. of 
Dwelling 
Units
 % of Project 
Residential 
(approx)
Base Zoning
Lot Size/ 
Acres
Dwelling 
Units per 
Acre
406 E 3rd Ave. Mixed Use 
SPAR + SDPA + Tentative 
Parcel Map
Demo existing commercial buildings. 
Construct new 4-story office and 
residential building.  
25
14%
CBD-S: Commercial 
and DT residential
0.88
28
1919 O’Farrell St. Apartments Demo existing office building. Construct 
new 5-story apartment building.
49
100%
E1-1/R4:Office with 
residential overlay
0.71
69
303 Baldwin Ave
Demo existing grocery store. Construct 
new 5-story mixed-use building with 
commercial ground floor, and office and 
residential uses above.
64
40%
C1-
2/R5:Commercial, 
office with 
residential overlay
0.93
68
Hillsdale Terraces Mixed Use
2700 S EL CAMINO REAL
Demo two commercial buildings. 
Construct a 5-story mixed use 
development. 
67
80%
C3-1/R4:  
Commercial with 
residential overlay
1
67
Bay Meadows PhaseI SPAR 
Modification Station 1 & 5 
Office
2750 S DELAWARE ST
Modification of Station 1 office building 
to increase office space, remove ground 
floor commercial, and eliminate a 
freestanding parking garage. 
Modification of Station 5 office building 
to increase the office space, reduce the 
ground floor commercial space 
0
0%
BMSP: Mixed use 
per Bay Meadows 
Specific Plan
5.39
N/A
City Council Study Session
January 18, 2022
2
11 of 13

--- page 12 ---
Planning Application or 
Development Name
Description
No. of 
Dwelling 
Units
 % of Project 
Residential 
(approx)
Base Zoning
Lot Size/ 
Acres
Dwelling 
Units per 
Acre
Bay Meadows Montara
2775 S Delaware St
Bay Meadows MU1 - BRIDGE Affordable 
Housing. Construct 68 affordable 
apartments
68
100%
BMSP: Mixed Use 
per Bay Meadows 
Specific Plan
1
68
1650 S. Delaware St 
Apartments 
Demo the existing office building. 
Construct new 5-story 73-unit 
residential apartment building
73
100%
TOD: Mixed Use
1.07
68
Essex at Central Park
99-157 E. 5th Ave
Demo  existing surface parking lot. 
Construct 5-story mixed-use 
development.
80
90%
CBD/R:  
Commercial with 
residential overlay
1.2
67
One 90
1, 2, 3 WATERS PARK DR
Demo of office campus. Construct new 
190 for-sale units.  Zoning 
Reclassification (change from E1 to R3).
190
100%
E1: Office
11.13
17
Kiku Crossing/ 5th Ave Garage
480 E 4TH AVE 
225-unit affordable housing project and
public/private parking garage
225
53%
CBD-S: Commercial 
and DT residential
2.41
93
Modification of Bay Meadows Phase II 
SPAR MU2 Block - construct 4-story 
office with ground floor active retail 
uses along S. Delaware Street.
Modification of MU3 Block - construct 4-
story office with ground floor active 
retail uses and 4-story, 67-unit 
residential building.
Bay Meadows MU2 & MU3 
SPAR Modification
67
15%
BMSP: Mixed Use 
per Bay Meadows 
Specific Plan
1.51
44
City Council Study Session
January 18, 2022
3
12 of 13

--- page 13 ---
Planning Application or 
Development Name
Description
No. of 
Dwelling 
Units
 % of Project 
Residential 
(approx)
Base Zoning
Lot Size/ 
Acres
Dwelling 
Units per 
Acre
Peninsula Heights
2988 CAMPUS DR 100
Demo 4 office buildings on 2 sites. 
Construct a 290-unit residential 
development on two parcels, totaling 
15.45 acres.  Sepcial Use Permit
290
100%
E1-1: Office
15.45
19
Concar Passage
666 CONCAR DR
Demo existing shopping center. 
Construct mixed-use development with 
commercial, office and residential. 
961
97%
TOD: Mixed use
14.51
66
Total Projects = 
20*
Total Mixed-use Projects with Residential = 
8
Total Residential-only Projects = 
7
Average dwelling units per acre for all Residential Projects = 
48
* Different phases of the Bay Meadows Project counted as one project.
City Council Study Session
January 18, 2022
4
13 of 13