Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
Visit Flock.com
Oroville CA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Wed Jul 29 2026

Overview

Oroville California Police Department uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Oroville California Police Department utilizes retroactive searches to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, the Oroville California Police Department utilizes real-time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Flock Data retention (in days)

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

64

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

186,406

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

94

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

1,830
Top Offense Types

Offense Types used for LPR searches in the last 30 days.

Larceny/Theft Offenses
Missing/Endangered Person/Runaway
Motor Vehicle Theft/Stolen
Welfare Check
Assault/Battery Offenses
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by the Oroville California Police Department and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harrassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.

Provided by Flock Safety