source: packet.pdf
sha256: cedca92c04e651a64b1b4ec5da6bd2d5b336ad1301578f34ca5c531c47a7a248
pages: 34
ocr_pages: 3
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
February 7, 2026
9:00 AM
College of San Mateo
1700 West Hillsdale Blvd.
College Heights Conference Room
Building 10, Room 468
(Click Here for Facility Map)
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Adam Loraine
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
Robert Newsom Jr.
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD AS AN IN-PERSON WORKSHOP. PUBLIC ATTENDANCE IS AVAILABLE IN-PERSON ONLY. PUBLIC
COMMENTS MAY BE SUBMITTED IN PERSON OR IN WRITING. FOR SUBMITTING PUBLIC COMMENT SEE FURTHER DETAILS BELOW
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
PUBLIC COMMENT
This is the opportunity for the public comment on the Council’s Stragetic Plan and Objectives for fiscal year 2026-27 before the
Council proceeds with its working session. Public comment will be limited to a total of 30 minutes. 
 
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of this item.
1.
City Council "Blue Sky" Goal Setting Workshop
Review the Strategic Plan, the current City Council Priority List for Fiscal Year 2025/26, and the proposed City
Council Blue Sky Activities for Fiscal Year 2026/27.
CEQA: This workshop is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until noon on Friday, February 6, 2026.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
1 of 34

--- page 2 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 26-10874
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
February 07, 2026 
SUBJECT:
City Council "Blue Sky" Goal Setting Workshop
RECOMMENDATION:
Review the Strategic Plan, the current City Council Priority List for Fiscal Year 2025/26, and the proposed City Council Blue 
Sky Activities for Fiscal Year 2026/27.
BACKGROUND:
With the adoption of the City’s first Strategic Plan (Attachment 1) on September 15, 2025, the Blue Sky goal setting 
workshop will now fold in the City’s Strategic Plan into the City Council goal setting process. Similar to past years, this 
includes a three-step deliberation process resulting in the adoption of Blue Sky Strategic Plan SMART (Specific, 
Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, and Time-bound) Activities that represent the City Council’s priorities. The City 
Council Blue Sky workshop scheduled for February 7, 2026, is the first step in the goal setting process for the upcoming 
year. At this meeting, City Council will review the Strategic Plan, the status of the Council’s current Blue Sky Priority List, 
and identify new Blue Sky Activities for consideration. The meeting will include a public comment period at the start of 
the meeting, followed by a facilitated discussion amongst the Council to review the current Priority List and the 
Council’s proposed Blue Sky items. 
As discussed at the September 2, 2025, City Council Special Meeting, the added Blue Sky process will include the 
following elements:
•
Public Input on existing and proposed City Council priorities: the public would continue to be able to weigh in on 
priorities for the City.
•
Council affirmation of Strategic Initiatives and Strategic Priority Initiatives: at this time, the Council will review the 
Strategic Plan and can decide to change Strategic Initiatives or increase or decrease the importance of a specific 
initiative, which will result in more/less resources going towards the Goals and SMART Activities within that area.
•
At the Blue Sky Workshop following the overview of the Strategic Plan, the Council will review the existing 
priorities (Attachment 2), which are divided into categories based on their estimated time frame for 
completion: 1 Fiscal Year; 2-5 Years; and more than 5 Years. The status of each of the priorities as reported in 
November 2025 is indicated. Also included is a staff recommendation about whether to remove or convert 
each priority into a SMART Activity. Priorities recommended for retention include those on which staff have yet 
to commence work or which are in progress and remain a priority for the City. Priorities recommended for 
removal are those which are either complete or expected to be complete by the end of the fiscal year. If an 
item expected for completion should become behind schedule and carry over to the next year, staff would convert 
them to a SMART Activity and add it to the list for FY 26/27. Also proposed for removal are priorities which are 
2 of 34

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
embedded in staff work and will take place regardless of whether the City Council tracks them on its priority list or not.
•
Following the review of the items on the existing priority list, the Council will then review and engage in a 
facilitated discussion about the list of potential new Blue Sky items submitted by each Councilmember 
(Attachment 3).  
o
The Council has an opportunity annually to add up to three new Blue Sky Activities to the Strategic Plan for 
consideration. The expectation is for the City Council to bring all new Activities to Blue Sky rather than be 
brought up during the Reports and Announcements section of the City Council meeting agenda. 
Additionally, the recommendation is for Councilmembers to identify which Activities are coming off the list 
or moving down in priority to accommodate the proposed new Activity. All Activities will be finalized as 
part of the annual budget approval process. All Activities, both new and ongoing, are prioritized as to 
inclusion, scope, and timelines within the final annual budget.
o
Each potential new Blue Sky Activity needs support from a minimum of three Councilmembers to move 
forward to the next step. Additionally, as part of the consideration process for new priorities, staff has 
included Attachment 4, which provides a high-level overview of major Citywide initiatives currently 
underway. These items are on internal departmental work plans and not reflected in the Council Priorities, 
but absorb a great deal of City resources, including financial and staffing resources. This information is 
intended to help the Council weigh its priorities in consideration of the significant work plan items 
currently underway.
•
The next step in the goal setting process, currently scheduled for March 16, 2026, will be a second study session 
where staff will share the proposed new SMART Activity list with proposed work plans, a refined estimate of 
resources required, and seek Council feedback on the wording of the proposed SMART Activities and work 
plans. The City Council will receive public comment on this draft list at the meeting and direct staff to make any 
edits. The final step in the process, which will occur at an April 2026 City Council meeting, will be a consent 
calendar item where City Council will approve the SMART Activities list for the 2026-2027 fiscal year. Staff will 
then present a progress report on the SMART Activities in the fall of 2026.
Additionally, to inform the City Council and community about how City Council agenda report items are furthering the 
completion of SMART Activities, Goals, and the Strategic Plan, beginning July 1, 2026, staff will include a new section of 
agenda reports titled “Strategic Plan Alignment”. In this section, staff can identify which strategic initiative area their item 
aligns with the City’s Strategic Plan.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this agenda item. The resources required for the final list of priorities identified by the City 
Council will be taken into consideration as part of the development of the fiscal year 2026 - 2027 budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This workshop is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result 
in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - City of San Mateo FY 2026/27 Strategic Plan
Att 2 - FY 2025/26 City Council Priority List
Att 3 - FY 2026/27 City Council Proposed Blue Sky Activities
Att 4 - FY 2026/27 Staff Work Plan Items Not on Council Priority List
3 of 34

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Zachary Reda, Senior Management Analyst
zreda@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 435-0823
4 of 34

--- page 5 ---
City of San Mateo 
2026 Strategic Plan
September 2025
5 of 34

--- page 6 ---


--- page 7 ---
3
September 2025
City of San Mateo 
2026 Strategic Plan
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
San Mateo’s first citywide Strategic Plan is a tool to aid in the implementation and prioritization of the 
City’s ten major Strategic Initiatives, which represent the City’s Values and overall Mission. This Strategic 
Plan incorporates extensive community feedback collected since 2018, and will serve as a foundational 
document to help achieve a shared vision of the City’s future. 
The Strategic Plan will: 
•	 Offer a comprehensive framework for City Council to use when making decisions for both immediate 
and long-term priorities.
•	 Allow the City to move in an intentional, strategic direction over a longer timeframe. 
•	 Act as a tool to implement planning documents already adopted by Council in a systematic way. 
•	 Integrate with the City’s budget and Capital Improvement Plan processes.
•	 Help the City use its resources with the utmost efficiency and impact with budget constraints in mind.
•	 Be updated as needed to remain relevant to the community. 
The following inclusive engagement of diverse perspectives helped shaped and inform the Strategic Plan:
Community Opinion Survey: In February 2025, the City of San Mateo conducted a statistically significant 
Community Opinion Survey to understand its residents’ satisfaction, priorities, opinions, and concerns as 
they relate to city services, facilities, and policies. The results provided Council and staff with an analysis of 
San Mateo’s strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats. 
Community Conversations: The City held a series of meetings with diverse groups to gather community input 
that helped inform priorities and challenges for the City of San Mateo’s underserved populations. Based on 
Census 2022 data, the Latino, Black, and Asian American and Pacific Islander communities represent 55% 
of the population and have historical underrepresentation and low participation rates in local government 
initiatives. These Community Conversations enabled the City to hear from these underrepresented groups 
and their input was incorporated into the Strategic Plan. 
General Plan 2040: From 2018 to 2024, the City developed its General Plan 2040 document. It lays out 
the community’s vision for how San Mateo will look, feel, and change over the next 15 years. Throughout 
the development of this document, the City conducted extensive community engagement to understand 
the community’s thoughts on their values and vision for the future throughout the City and on a variety 
of topics, which were then critically analyzed and presented to a special General Plan Subcommittee, the 
Planning Commission, and the City Council for adoption. 
At their March 14, 2025, half-day workshop, the City Council selected 10 Strategic Initiatives as the key 
focus areas for this Strategic Plan, and these were developed based on the community feedback heard 
through the Community Opinion Survey, the General Plan 2040 development process, the Community 
Conversations, and the budget development process. 
7 of 34

--- page 8 ---
MISSION AND VALUES
MISSION:
Cultivate a vibrant, safe community through collaboration, innovation, and sustainability.
VALUES:
Prosperity:
Cultivating a diverse and thriving economy with different types of homes, jobs, 
recreation, lifelong learning opportunities, and services for both current and 
future generations.
Inclusivity:
Striving to include everyone in community life and decisions for a shared, 
sustainable future.
Diversity:
Embracing diversity, arts, and culture, and respecting the experiences, 
contributions, and aspirations of people of all ages, abilities, incomes, and 
backgrounds.
Resiliency:
Leading in sustainability, making San Mateo strong and resilient by acting 
boldly to adapt to a changing world.
Integrity:
Ensuring transparency and accountability for our actions.
4
September 2025
City of San Mateo 
2026 Strategic Plan
8 of 34

--- page 9 ---
5
September 2025
City of San Mateo 
2026 Strategic Plan
STRATEGIC INITIATIVES:
PRIORITY INITIATIVES FISCAL YEAR 
2026/27:
Climate Resiliency
Infrastructure
Transportation
Housing
Economic Development
Healthy Community for  
All Ages
Public Safety
Land Use
Organizational Health and 
Good Governance
Community Engagement 
and Communications
9 of 34

--- page 10 ---
6
September 2025
City of San Mateo 
2026 Strategic Plan
PRIORITY INITIATIVE
Climate Resiliency
Proactively address a changing climate through the 
City’s policies, projects, activities, and programs.
Goals
•	 Create a comprehensive climate resilience strategy 
to account for climate change impacts.
•	 Implement the Climate Action Plan to meet 
greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets.
•	 Continuously evaluate opportunities to incorporate 
climate resilience into new City policies, projects, 
activities, and programs.
•	 Actively and continuously seek funding opportunities 
and partnerships to support climate resiliency needs.
 
PRIORITY INITIATIVE
Infrastructure
Maintain and continuously improve a resilient and 
sustainable City infrastructure system to meet the 
needs of all members of the community and plan for 
our continued vibrancy as the city grows.
Goals
•	 Create and implement an infrastructure management 
program for critical assets that includes proactive 
assessment, maintenance, and repair. 
•	 Plan for the future of City infrastructure based on the 
changing needs of the community and with a focus 
on equity, accessibility, resiliency, and sustainability.
•	 Actively and continuously seek funding opportunities 
and partnerships to support infrastructure needs.
10 of 34

--- page 11 ---
7
September 2025
City of San Mateo 
2026 Strategic Plan
PRIORITY INITIATIVE
Transportation
Maintain and continuously improve a safe, 
multimodal, accessible, and efficient transportation 
network.
Goals
•	 Work toward a transportation system that prioritizes 
user safety, accommodates future growth, and 
maintains efficient and safe operations for all users.
•	 Seek funding opportunities and partnerships that 
accelerate transportation project implementation.
•	 Pursue initiatives that increase access to transit, 
improve east-west travel, and expand last mile 
connections.
 
PRIORITY INITIATIVE
Housing
Support all forms of housing and achieve greater 
housing equity and access for all residents.
Goals
•	 Implement the Housing Element to affirmatively 
further fair housing, meet the City’s housing 
allocation, and retain certification.
•	 Strategically deploy housing funds and leverage 
outside funding and partnerships to meet the 
housing needs of the community.
•	 Focus on identifying and taking local actions that can 
contribute to reducing overall housing costs. 
11 of 34

--- page 12 ---
8
September 2025
City of San Mateo 
2026 Strategic Plan
STRATEGIC INITIATIVE
Economic Development
Create an environment that supports a thriving and 
diverse economy with opportunities that meet the 
needs of the entire community.
Goals
•	 Attract and retain a wide range of businesses to 
create a robust economy that supports employment 
opportunities within the San Mateo community and 
provides robust and predictable revenues. 
•	 Create vibrant commercial areas Citywide by 
improving the customer experience, developing 
partnerships, and exploring creative enhancement 
opportunities.
 
STRATEGIC INITIATIVE
Healthy Community for  
All Ages
Create and promote an environment that empowers 
all community members to thrive.
Goals
•	 Seek opportunities for City services and programs 
to support people of all ages and abilities for their 
mental, emotional, physical, and social well-being.
•	 Ensure greater access to the systems that support 
healthier 
lifestyles 
and 
increase 
well-being 
throughout all neighborhoods with a focus on equity 
priority communities.
12 of 34

--- page 13 ---
9
September 2025
City of San Mateo 
2026 Strategic Plan
STRATEGIC INITIATIVE
Public Safety
Provide a safe and secure quality of life through 
professional and proactive police and fire services, 
and effectively prepare for future emergencies.
Goals
•	 Provide fire and emergency services through 
professionalism, collaboration, and public trust.
•	 Proactively protect and promote safety and 
well-being, with a focus on mental health, while 
serving San Mateo residents, businesses, and visitors. 
•	 Develop a comprehensive approach to emergency 
preparedness.  
 
STRATEGIC INITIATIVE
Land Use
Utilize the General Plan 2040 to guide policy 
and permitting decisions that shape the physical 
environment.
Goals
•	 Complete a comprehensive Zoning Code update to 
implement the policies and actions in the General 
Plan 2040.
•	 Update the City’s specific and area plans to be 
consistent with the City’s General Plan 2040.
13 of 34

--- page 14 ---
10
September 2025
City of San Mateo 
2026 Strategic Plan
STRATEGIC INITIATIVE
Organizational Health and  
Good Governance
Promote a high-performing and resilient organization 
by upholding the highest standards of integrity, 
customer service, and fiscal responsibility to 
effectively serve the community.
Goals
•	 Efficiently and effectively manage the City’s 
resources to support financial health, operate 
with transparency, and provide services that are 
responsive to the community’s needs.
•	 Continuously support our employees’ professional 
development and wellness, and foster a healthy 
culture that attracts and retains a talented, 
innovative, and accountable workforce.
 
STRATEGIC INITIATIVE
Community Engagement  
and Communications
Build community by empowering the public to be 
informed and involved.
Goals
•	 Provide an accessible avenue for everyone in the 
community to have the ability to participate, be 
heard, and see the impact of their contributions.
•	 Inform, educate, and encourage feedback from all 
community stakeholders, and continue to learn and 
improve based on the community’s needs.
14 of 34

--- page 15 ---


--- page 16 ---
et a

Niel aaah ele

- 5)
——

| |
iii

;

ey Pha Dene EI, Ne



--- page 17 ---
#
Council Priority
Work Plan FY 25-26
November 2025 Progress
Convert or 
Remove
Green = remove
Pink = converted
Yellow = parking lot
1
Establish policies to decarbonize 
existing buildings and 
infrastructure and eliminate 
methane gas use by 2030.
Continue to conduct community outreach and 
provide education; present findings to Sustainability 
andInfrastructure Commission for recommendations 
to City Council; return to City Council final policy 
options and related resource needs for, Council 
direction.
Completed - Electrify San Mateo Sustainable Building 
Strategy adopted by Resolution.
Remove - 
Completed
2
Create a comprehensive, 
ongoing Citywide Community 
Outreach and Engagement 
Program.
Onboard and train new communications team, 
continue to improve high interest webpages and 
work with staff Citywide to enhance public 
engagement, establish a townhall program, and 
develop civic engagement forums. Enhance customer 
service and community outreach training and 
education opportunities for staff citywide.
Community Engagement Handook Completed; 
Citywide web team established; Communications 
Manager Oral Board set for Nov. 4; Citywide trainings 
for various communications tools underway; more to 
come, such as Townhalls and Mayoral Minute, with 
onboarding of Communications Manager. 
Converted to 
SMART Activity
3
Create a Capital Infrastructure 
Plan or process for reinvesting in 
infrastructure to allow the City 
to evaluate City facilities and 
assets when upgrades are 
needed.
Budget for and engage a consultant to complete a 
Capital Improvement Program organizational 
assessment to optimize the process for identifying all 
City infrastructure improvements, evaluate the 
process of prioritizing improvements, and assess the 
scheduling and budgeting methodologies. In addition, 
procure a consultant to complete a comprehensive 
facilities assessment to identify required 
improvements.
CIP organization assessment draft deliverable has 
been developed by the consultant and is under 
review. Target completion is June 2026. 
Citywide facilities assessment will be presented to 
City Council on October 20th. 
Remove - 
Completed
4
Explore a resolution affirming 
the City's commitment to 
integrate new technologies, 
such as artificial intelligence (AI), 
without displacing work force.
Explore programs in use Countywide and what is 
already in use by staff and develop a plan to 
formalize integration of AI tools to assist staff without 
their displacement or compromising security.
Working on AI policy to set guidelines, usage, and 
protections for staff, with a completion date by the 
end of the current fiscal year. 
This item will be 
removed if 
completed as 
planned by June 
30, 2026 or 
converted into a 
SMART Activity if it 
falls behind 
schedule. 
17 of 34

--- page 18 ---
5
Conduct an Annual 
Transportation Review of 
progress on all ongoing plans, 
including project updates and 
key metrics such as City mode 
share, collision and safety data.
Staff will gather key metrics and present an annual 
transportation review to City Council.
The first annual transportation review was presented 
to City Council on June 2, 2025. The next annual 
transportation review is planned for June 2026. 
Remove - 
operationalized 
and done annually
6
Complete Speed Surveys
Complete necessary analyses and adoption of 
ordinances as required by the California Vehicle Code 
to ensure speed limits on the City’s roadways are 
enforceable. Begin by developing an analysis and 
implementation strategy for systematic evaluation of 
our roadways.
Staff will be implementing a Request for Proposals 
process and selecting a consultant in Winter 2025, 
after which staff plans to do initital data preparation 
work in early 2026, before conducting the speed 
surveys. Certification is planned in Summer 2026, 
with the estimated completion of this effort in Fall 
2026. 
Converted to 
SMART Activity
7
Explore limiting overnight RV 
Parking in commercial corridors
Explore policy and enforcement options and present 
study session to Council.
Study Session complete; policy direction being 
implemented.
Remove - 
Completed
18 of 34

--- page 19 ---
8
Explore how the City of San 
Mateo could partner with 
Sustainable San Mateo and 
Peninsula Clean Energy in 
"Charge Forward San Mateo," a 
countywide effort to ensure that 
residents have equitable access 
to electric vehicle (EV) charging 
infrastructure (and reduce the 
county's greenhouse gas 
emissions from transportation, 
currently 49% of the region's 
emissions). Possibilities 
include installing streetlight 
chargers near apartments and 
multifamily units; collaborating 
with Peninsula Clean Energy to 
identify apartment and 
multifamily contacts and offer 
financial and technical support 
for installing EV chargers; 
incentivize private employers to 
expand employee and customer 
EV charging.
Conduct research, including how the City can work 
with PG&E, and hold a City Council study session.
This is planned for the first half of 2026.
This item will be 
removed if 
completed as 
planned by June 
30, 2026 or 
converted into a 
SMART Activity if it 
falls behind 
schedule. 
9
Develop and implement an 
ordinance to prohibit the use of 
gas leaf blowers within the City 
of San Mateo.
Draft an ordinance based on industry best practices 
for review and adoption by Council and develop an 
implementation and enforcement program.
SIC review and City Council Study Session complete; 
Ordinance being drafted for introduction at an 
upcoming meeting.
This item will be 
removed if 
completed as 
planned by June 
30, 2026 or 
converted into a 
SMART Activity if it 
falls behind 
schedule. 
19 of 34

--- page 20 ---
10
Youth Service Officers at Schools 
– funding program.
City to work with the school districts over the next 
year to have the school districts help fund an 
additional school resource officer.
There has been no progress made in this area.  
Staff recommends 
removing. Staff will 
continue to pursue 
this effort, but 
progress is unlikely 
at this time.
11
Develop City Council Code of 
conduct with measurable 
consequences akin to the San 
Mateo County Board of 
Supervisors language with 
enforcement
Hold workshop and revise/update Council Rules and 
Procedures
Completed
Remove - 
Completed
12
Develop policy on regulating 
mobile vending/food trucks
Work with various departments to explore available 
policy and enforcement options and present to 
Council at a study session.
Study Session complete (9/15); Council policy 
direction being implemented.
Converted to 
SMART Activity
13
Establish Senior Hubs at MLK 
and Beresford Senior Centers 
Senior Hubs: Expand our current 
senior programming offerings to 
better meet the needs of our 
senior community members by 
increasing the variety and 
frequency of events tailored 
specifically to seniors, such as 
adding options for engagement, 
socialization, and overall well-
being. Also, investigate 
partnering with other 
organizations to provide 
coffee/tea or light refreshments 
that will enhance the overall 
experience but also encourage 
more participation by creating a 
welcoming and comfortable 
atmosphere.
Strategically identify which facilities(y) could best 
support piloting this type of program based on 
availability of space and staffing, and suitability of 
structure to remain open and accessible in the 
foreseeable future. Update programing, staffing, and 
outreach as needed to support the expansion of 
service.   
Compiled an inventory of all Senior Programming 
offered across all Recreation Facilites and Mobile 
Recreation.                                                                             
Space has been allocated at MLK JR Center for Senior 
Hub and necessary space upgrades are in process.        
Converted to 
SMART Activity
20 of 34

--- page 21 ---
14
Deliver the Clean Water 
Program.
Complete all identified construction projects by the 
end of FY 25/26.
Wastewater Treatment Plant (GMP 3) is on track to 
be in operation in late 2025 with construction 
complete in Spring 2026. The El Camino Real 
package of collection system improvements will 
be complete in Spring/Summer 2026.  Final lift 
station rehabilitation project (Las Prados, Kehoe 
Kelly, and Arroyo Lift Station Rehabilitation) will be 
complete in early 2027. 
Remove - 
Completed
15
Explore the implementation of a 
Customer Response 
Management or 311 system.
Onboard consultant support and select a suitable 
CRM that will work with existing back-end systems.
Catalis was selected as CRM vendor. Project kick-
off on 9/5/2025. Anticipate 12-16 week project 
timeline, depending on City side tasks. 
This item will be 
removed if 
completed as 
planned by June 
30, 2026 or 
converted into a 
SMART Activity if it 
falls behind 
schedule. 
16
Implement Phase 1 of the 
Central Park Master Plan.
Break ground and complete construction.
Construction began June 2025 – Project is currently 
on budget and on time for completion in late Fall of 
2026
Converted to 
SMART Activity
17
Address structural issues at the 
Marina Library.
Engage in construction work throughout 2025. with 
completion targeted by the end of FY 25/26.
Construction began in August 2025, and is planned to 
extend for 16-18 months. In addition to necessary 
foundation and structural repairs, the work will 
involve mechanical, electrical, and plumbing 
upgrades; accessibility improvements; exterior and 
landscaping improvements; a newly updated interior; 
and a relocated deck. 
Converted to 
SMART Activity
21 of 34

--- page 22 ---
18
Explore piloting a City Grant 
Fund.
Identify funding source and amount (50k), staff 
resources, structure, and process.
The City Manager's Office is currently exploring 
options and will bring the structure of a City Grant 
pilot to a City Council Study Session in Spring/early 
Summer 2026. 
This item will be 
removed if 
completed as 
planned by June 
30, 2026 or 
converted into a 
SMART Activity if it 
falls behind 
schedule. 
Priority List 2 TO 5 YEAR Completion
19
Consider the adoption of wage 
theft protections.
Partner and work with the County's Office of Labor 
Standards and Enforcement.
Completed in July 2025. The City has a contract with 
OLSE to enforce minimum wage and wage theft 
investigations. 
Remove - 
Completed
20
Initiate a Community Budget 
Process for anticipated revenue 
from Measure CC.
Continue to monitor Measure CC revenue and create 
a community budget in an amount <$100K. Report 
the results through quarterly updates.
Finance continues to monitor Measure CC revenue 
and has already received $1.7 million as of August 
2025 for FY 25-26.
Converted to 
SMART Activity
21
Enhance city-wide disaster 
response and emergency 
preparedness.
Continue working with Office of Emergency Services 
on updates to the City's Emergency Operations Plan 
including associated staff training and exercises, 
ongoing training for staff roles and responsibilities at 
the Emergency Operations Center, and training on 
the transition to new virtual EOC software (Veoci); 
update departmental emergency plans and 
COOP/COGs; purchase emergency equipment; pursue 
flood control permitting and upgrades; evaluate City 
infrastructure for resilience and fitness during 
disaster/extreme events.
Emergency backpacks and Emergency Management 
Concepts 4-day EOC emergency response training in 
December. Field Maintenance staff recently met with 
Consolidated Fire to coordinate emergency access to 
the City's pump stations. 
Converted to 
SMART Activity
22 of 34

--- page 23 ---
22
Implement the adopted General 
Plan.
 
Work on the Comprehensive Zoning Code Update 
with the consultant (PlaceWorks) started in July.  
Early work includes development of an 
outreach/engagement strategy, updating the Strive 
San Mateo website to house all Zoning Code Update 
resources, background research and coordination 
with other departments (CAO and PW). 
Converted to 
Strategic Plan Goal. 
More specific 
SMART Activities 
included as well
23
Implement Housing Element 
Policies.
Continue implementation of all 2023-2031 Housing 
Element policies and programs with a 2024/2025 and 
2025/2026 target date.
Work on all HE policies and programs with a 2025 
target is ongoing and on track to meet 
committments. The Council adopted an Emergency 
Rental Assistance Program in July to support HE 
tenant protections goals, with additional tenant 
protection codes/policies coming back to Council in 
November. Code amendments to update the CIty's 
ADU Ordinance are also udnerway, with a Council 
public hearing anticipated in November. Work on 
amendments to the Housing Element per the 
settlement with HAC are underway, with public 
hearings anticipated in January 2026.
Converted to 
Strategic Plan Goal. 
More specific 
SMART Activities 
included as well
24
Reconstruct all failed streets 
identified in the Smooth Streets 
program in San Mateo by 2026.
Complete construction of Phase 4 by Spring 2025 and 
award construction contract for Phase 5 Summer 
2025. Phase 5 is the final phase of the Smooth Streets 
Program.
Phase 4 construction is complete. Currently waiting 
for PG&E and Calwater to lower shallow laterals and 
mains this fall and winter prior to placing Phase 5 out 
to bid. Estimating Phase 5 to be complete by 
December 2026.
Converted to 
SMART Activity
25
Replace all remaining high 
voltage circuits to improve 
safety and reliability of the 
street light system.
Construction for Phase 5 is planned for Summer 
2025, with the schedule dependent upon PG&E. For 
Phase 4, design efforts are planned, but PG&E has 
requested a 9-month lead time.
Phase 4 construction is delayed due to permitting 
issues with PG&E and remains in the design stage. 
Phase 5 is currently under construction and on track 
for completion by early 2026.
Converted to 
SMART Activity
23 of 34

--- page 24 ---
26
Implement a robust, year-round 
Downtown Activation Program 
as part of our core City services.
Organize a committee to focus on the vibrancy of 
Downtown.
While the committee has not yet been formally 
organized, activation efforts to support year round 
Downtown vibrancy are already underway through 
the City's continued partnership and regular 
coordination meetings with the Chamber and DSMA  
e.g. monthly Headwest Market, West Coast Farmer's 
Market, and special events on the Pedestrian mall. 
Converted to 
SMART Activity
27
Explore how the City of San 
Mateo could partner with the 
San Mateo Union High School 
District, San Mateo-Foster City 
School District and other public, 
private and nonprofit 
organizations to support 
"Empower San Mateo," a 
community collaborative model 
aiming to help 1000 equity 
priority San Mateo students 
graduate and thrive. Possibilities 
include evaluating how our city's 
assets (e.g. parks and recreation 
centers, libraries and more) 
could be further activated to 
support these and other San 
Mateo students; considering 
expansion/piloting of 
programming that could help 
such students find internships 
and local work experience, 
including within the City itself.
Map out and identify inter-governmental and 
community stakeholder support. Affirm formal 
support from Both High School and Elementary 
School District School Boards. 
The City has looked to partner with the San Mateo 
Union High School. Recently, San Mateo participated 
in the SMUHS Volunteer Faire and performed 
outreach to make students aware of citywide 
volunteer opportunities.
Converted to 
SMART Activity
24 of 34

--- page 25 ---
28
Prioritize planning, design, 
construction and maintenance 
of rapid safety improvement 
projects citywide and ensure 
there is a reliable City fund for 
long term success.
Consolidate safety projects identified in existing and 
future plans into a prioritized list. Develop an 
implementation strategy that includes staff resources 
and funding for each phase (planning, design, 
construction and maintenance). Continue to progress 
in safety projects in design, such as: Delaware Safe 
Routes to School Protected Bike Lane, Hillsdale GAP 
Closure, 3rd and Norfolk Safety Improvement Project.
The Quick-Build Mobility Program implementation 
strategy is still under development, with a draft 
internal eligibility policy in place. Program funds are 
currently supporting streamlined safety projects, 
including the Delaware SRTS, Hillsdale Boulevard & 
Alameda de las Pulgas Traffic Signal Project, and 
various other safety improvements. All projects in the 
workplan are progressing as planned, except for the 
Hillsdale GAP Closure Project, which is on hold due to 
staffing shortages.
Converted to 
Strategic Plan Goal. 
More specific 
SMART Activities 
included as well
29
Improve and strengthen 
democratic systems and 
decrease polarization.
Conduct a variety of educational outreach to current 
and future voters by, including registration events, 
utilizing mailers, and collaborating with service 
organizations. Staff will continue to conduct post-
election review and will add additional metrics and 
analysis as an enhancement to this review.
Completed. Post-election review conducted; Council 
direction implemented for campaign contribution 
limit adjustments, and improvements to voluntary 
expenditure limits. Also the dashboard transparency 
and youth voter engagement initaitives have been 
fully operationalized. 
Remove - 
Completed
30
Work with schools, community 
colleges, businesses, and other 
organizations to expand youth 
and senior workforce 
development & civic leadership 
opportunities.
Attract and retain youth/young adult interns by 
partnering with organizations, such as Empowerment 
Through Action and local businesses, and centralizing 
internships. Improve our volunteer program to 
attract and retain volunteers, especially seniors. 
Develop a formal “Recruitment, Marketing, and 
Outreach Plan” for the City.
Plans to expand the volunteer program to the City's 
office environments has begun. Both the City 
Manager's Office and Human Resources have been 
exploring this work. More updates to come as staff 
continue the process and establish specific tasks for 
the volunteer roles, which will be open to people of 
all ages. Of note, there seems to be special interest in 
the volunteer area from high school students. Human 
Resources has initiated the development of a 
Recruitment, Marketing, and Outreach Plan to 
expand recruitment and outreach activities in an 
effort to develop partnerships and build pipeline for 
City jobs. 
This item will be 
removed if 
completed as 
planned by June 
30, 2026 or 
converted into a 
SMART Activity if it 
falls behind 
schedule. 
25 of 34

--- page 26 ---
31
Commission a citywide 
feasibility study for groups of 
San Mateo businesses interested 
in forming business 
improvement districts (BIDs), 
including existing smaller 
districts outside of downtown, 
such as 25th Avenue and Crystal 
Springs Shopping Center, and 
newer groupings such as 
sections of El Camino Real or 
downtown businesses that may 
wish to pursue a property-based 
BID or other complementary 
structure to the existing 
Downtown San Mateo 
Association. 
Conduct stakeholder mapping and identification in 
multiple targeted areas, create and conduct surveys, 
hold community meetings, visit businesses, etc. to 
gauge interest and needs and formulate what to 
present to Council at one or more study sessions.
This work is not yet started.
Put in parking lot
32
Explore and evaluate allowing a 
retail cannabis storefront in 
downtown
Explore available policy options along with potential 
revenue generation and present options to Council at 
a study session.
This work is not yet started.
Put in parking lot
33
Develop a Climate Adaptation 
Plan to establish a 
comprehensive strategy for 
resiliency and adaptation against 
sea level rise and flooding to 
ensure we are well poised for 
funding opportunities and 
include Foster City and 
Burlingame in planning efforts.
Use grant funding to commence this planned work, 
including consultant selection, ensuring all pertinent 
departments and our neighboring cities are included 
and any attention needed is given toward the future 
of the levy.
Work on the Climate Adaptation Plan is underway. 
Staff has selected a consultant and submitted the 
Notice of Intent to prepare the plan to BCDC. The 
consultant is currently preparing the Existing 
Conditions section of the plan, which will lay the 
foundation for possible strategies considered by the 
plan. 
Converted to 
SMART Activity
26 of 34

--- page 27 ---
34
Minimize impacts to residents 
from train horn noise at City at-
grade crossings.
Complete construction of all rail safety measures 
required for Train Horn Noise Quiet Zone (Quiet 
Zone) qualification as quickly as possible. Staff to 
work with FRA and required stakeholders (e.g. CPUC, 
Caltrain, and Union Pacific) to complete 
administrative steps to establish Quiet Zone by end of 
calendar year 2025.
Train Quiet Zone implementation is delayed until Q4 
2026/Q1 2027. Staff received directions from Council 
on full closures at Villa Terrace and Bellevue through 
phased implementation. Staff is continuing design for 
both locations and are currently working with 
regulatory stakeholders on funding at Villa Terrace. 
Converted to 
SMART Activity
ITEMS TO BE COMPLETED IN 5 YEARS OR MORE
35
Expedite efforts to improve the 
stormwater collection, drainage, 
and storage system, including 
dredging the Marina lagoon.
Adopt a prioritized, long-term 5-Year Capital 
Improvement Plan based on Stormwater Master Plan 
Update. Initiate and complete environmental 
approval process for dredging of the Marina Lagoon. 
Begin implementation of other highly prioritized 
stormwater capital improvement projects as funding 
and resources allow.
Consultant anticipates having a prioritized Capital 
Improvement Plan for the storm drain system by end 
of 2025 or early 2026. PW to review the Plan and 
implement as funding and resources allow. 
Environmental approval process for full dredging of 
Marina Lagoon has not yet commenced, but a "spot" 
dredging effort will be commencing in Spring 2026.
Converted partially 
to SMART Activity 
and partially to 
parking lot
36
Implement a Green Fleet by 
2035.
Complete design and initiate construction of City 
Hall/City Plaza EV charging infrastructure 
improvements by end of calendar year 2025. Seek 
additional grant funding and plan for Corp Yard/PD 
EV charging infrastructure improvements.
City Hall and Corp Yard EV Infrastructure projects are 
underway, working through the design phase. PD EV 
Infrastructure project is in the concept phase. Vehicle 
replacements with EVs have been prioritized with 
planned replacement of 12 existing gasoline/diesel 
vehicles with Battery Elecric options this Fiscal Year. 
Staff is working on a redesign of EV infrastructure to 
incorporate ADA compliance at City Hall and will 
adjust the project timeline.
Converted to 
SMART Activity
27 of 34

--- page 28 ---
37
Expedite efforts to provide high 
quality effluent from the 
wastewater treatment plant 
upgrades to support the future 
production of potable water.
Continue participating in the Peninsula Pure Water 
(formerly San Francisco Peninsula Regional 
Purification) project to pursue a wastewater 
purification facility at the Silicon Valley Clean Water 
facility in Redwood Shores.
The City remains involved in discussions. Recently, 
Public Works met with Burlingame officials to discuss 
possible water reuse synergies between the two 
cities with respect to overall regional planning and 
will be meeting with CalWater in October 2025 to 
further discuss its potential interest in recycled water.
The San Mateo 
portion of the 
Peninsula Pure 
Water project has 
been pushed to 
Phase 2 of the 
potential long-term 
roll-out.  Therefore, 
recommend this be 
moved to the 
parking lot.
38
Study resource feasibility for the 
downtown grade separations 
and long-term train corridor 
improvements.
Identify resource needs for staffing, grant writer, and 
design consultant to implement the feasibility study.
Staff is leveraging the City's grant writing consultant 
to identify grant opportunities for a feasibility study. 
Most grants related to grade separations are often 
federal discretionary funding that are currently being 
reviewed by the Department of Transportation.
Converted to 
SMART Activity
39
Improve traffic flow on 19th Ave 
and Fashion Island Boulevard 
from Grant to Mariners Island 
Boulevard.
The City is working with the San Mateo County 
Transportation Agency (TA) and leading the 
implementation of this project, with funding a 
constraint. Staff will continue working with the TA to 
evaluate options to reprogram funding from the 
construction phase to the design phase, with the 
design efforts start date currently unconfirmed.
The project is at 35% design and progressing on 
schedule. Recent public engagement included a 
community meeting in July 2025 and a City Council 
meeting on September 15, 2025. An additional 
community meeting is planned before the end of 
2025.
Converted to 
SMART Activity
40
Complete all High and Medium-
High priority projects in the 
2020 Bicycle Master Plan and 
the Pedestrian Master Plan with 
the goal of prioritizing quick-
build projects where feasible.
Program all existing 2020 BMP projects into the Bike 
San Mateo Program to expedite the design and 
delivery of all High and Med-High bicycle projects. 
This will include quick-build bicycle projects. Identify 
all incomplete PMP projects and develop a workplan 
for expedited completion. Some major projects 
complete/substantially underway.
Projects such as the Delaware SRTS, 19th Avenue 
Fashion Multi-Modal, 3rd and Norfolk intersection 
improvement, South B Street Class II and various 
others are progressing accordingly.
Converted to 
Strategic Plan Goal. 
More specific 
SMART Activities 
included as well. 
41
Near Term (1-3 years): 
28 of 34

--- page 29 ---
Expedite efforts to improve and 
build climate resiliency into the 
City’s stormwater collection, 
conveyance, flood control, and 
levee systems, including 
dredging the Marina lagoon.
•     Adopt an updated Storm Drain Master 
Plan including a prioritized, long-term Capital 
Improvement Program.
Consultant anticipates having a prioritized Capital 
Improvement Plan for storm drain system by end of 
2025 or early 2026. Staff will be bringing an update to 
Council on the SDMP in January 2026. PW will 
incorporate projects/funding into the 2026 Capital 
Improvement Program as appropriate.
Converted this 
council priority 
partially to SMART 
Activity, partially to 
parking lot, and 
partially into SP 
Goal.
•     Complete Marina Lagoon Spot Dredging 
design and construction.
Design is complete and project was advertised in June 
2025. Project received single bid which was rejected 
due to higher-than-expected bid. Staff received 
Council approval to negotiate with sole bidder, and if 
negotiations are unsuccessful, will re-bid in final 
quarter of 2025.
•      Explore options for providing additional 
pumping capacity at the Marina Lagoon Pump 
Station and increasing overall resiliency for 
climate change and more intense storm 
events.  
Staff advertised an RFP for a Physical Modeling Study 
in July 2025. Staff received two proposals, and after 
review of proposals will conduct interviews prior to 
selecting consultant. Study will indicate to what 
extent existing pumps/system configuration are 
capable of providing increased pumping/lagoon 
storage capacity as well as provide recommendations 
on modifications which can be safely implemented (if 
any).
•    Develop a Sea Level Rise Adaptation Plan 
to establish a comprehensive strategy for 
resiliency and adaptation against sea level rise 
and flooding, including a prioritized list of 
projects, and in accordance with BCDC 
Regional Shoreline Adaptation Plan 
requirements. 
City retained a consultant (ESA) to prepare 
Adaptation Plan. A Notice of Intent was submitted to 
BCDC informing BCDC of City's intent to prepare a 
Regional Shoreline Adaptation Plan. Consultant is 
commencing an Existing Conditions Assessment.
Near Term (1-3 years): 
29 of 34

--- page 30 ---
41
Expedite efforts to improve and 
build climate resiliency into the 
City’s stormwater collection, 
conveyance, flood control, and 
levee systems, including 
dredging the Marina lagoon.
•   Pursue funding for implementation of a 
comprehensive flood management study with 
the Army Corps of Engineers per the City’s 
federal Water Resources Development Act 
authorization.  
No updates
• Initiate design on high priority stormwater 
capital improvement projects identified in the 
Storm Drain Master Plan
No updates, pending completion of a prioritized list 
of capital improvements.
Medium Term (4-5 years):
•         Complete design, environmental 
review, and permitting process for large-scale 
maintenance dredging of the Marina Lagoon. 
Staff plans to prepare an RFP for this effort in Q3 of 
FY25/26.
•         Begin implementation of high priority 
stormwater capital improvement projects 
identified in the Storm Drain Master Plan.
No updates, pending completion of near-term storm 
drain master planning efforts.
•         Collaborating with relevant 
stakeholders, pursue prioritized funding for 
shoreline adaptation projects as identified in 
the Sea Level Rise Adaptation Plan 
No updates, pending completion of near-term 
adaptation efforts.
Long Term (6+ years):
•         Continue implementing priority projects 
from the Storm Drain Master Plan 
No updates
•         Initiate design, environmental review, 
and permitting on priority shoreline 
adaptation projects
No updates
30 of 34

--- page 31 ---
City Council’s Proposed Blue Sky Activities for FY 2026/27
Mayor Loraine
1. Explore a policy of evaluating cost-effective energy efficiency, production & 
storage (e.g. solar & battery) upgrades with each major construction and 
renovation of municipal buildings and facilities. Explore funding options that 
would allow the City to prepare to include such upgrades any time they’re found 
in the long term to either be cost-neutral or even save the City on future energy 
costs.
2. Research off-street parking, carshare and related programs that 
may utilize private or public real property (parking lots or vacant space) in 
impacted neighborhoods, business districts and other appropriate City areas.
3. Partner with the Elders Action Network to host a Future Design Event for the City 
of San Mateo in the second half of 2026, using the principles of Future Design to 
help visualize future local challenges and opportunities, as well as maximize 
participation in related City planning efforts (e.g. Blue Sky & Strategic Planning 
Sessions, General Plan 2040 & Master Plans). If the event is well received, 
consider making it an annual exercise before future Blue Sky & Strategic 
Planning sessions.
Deputy Mayor Fernandez
1. Hold a Study Session to discuss a potential Carpenters Union PLA.
2. Research Zoning Code and policy options for regulating food vending on vacant 
lots and present results to City Council. 
3. Research an employee home downpayment assistance program. 
Councilmember Cwirko-Godycki
1. Charter Amendments – Ballot Measure for 2028. Update/refresh on what Council 
needs to start working on/planning for a ballot measure in 2028 to update the 
City’s Charter to include District elections etc.  
2. Research examples of how other cities provide childcare benefits to their 
employees.
3. Review and advance targeted amendments to the Residential Permit Parking 
Program to improve program consistency, clarity, and implementation. Such 
amendments would be subject to City Council approval. For example, a future 
amendment could consider residents living on a private street abutting a permit-
parking area to be eligible for parking permits.
Councilmember Diaz Nash
1. Revise the Neighborhood Traffic Management Plan to streamline the application 
and approval process, increase installation of traffic calming measures, and 
31 of 34

--- page 32 ---
improve transparency for applicants, including clearer information on expected 
timelines and integration with the future Citywide customer service system where 
appropriate.
2. Review permitting procedures for single-family projects (modifications, remodels 
and new construction), and identify ways to speed up the process, reduce costs 
for homeowners and create efficiencies for city staff by simplifying and 
streamlining requirements and the permitting process. 
3. As the useful life of the Pedestrian Mall Mural nears, explore the next phase and 
future of the Art installation and how it can be used to further energize the 
downtown. 
Councilmember Newsom 
 
1. Conduct a citywide economic assessment of the City's commercial retail and 
service areas and nodes, with a focus on how to maintain a full range of 
community serving businesses and services around the City, assess commercial 
displacement, and develop a strategy to support small businesses when they are 
displaced due to redevelopment.  
2. Conduct a Feasibility Study for a permanent Bandstand in Central Park. The 
Bandstand would be used for Concerts in the Park, Movie Nights, and many 
more community events. Have staff complete a “build cost estimate,” for the 
proposed Band Stand, so we know what it costs as we continue with our phased 
redevelopment of Central Park. 
3. Community Art Beautification & Landscaping. Prepare a Public Art Master Plan 
to enhance community art beautification and landscaping throughout the City. 
32 of 34

--- page 33 ---
FY 2026/27 MAJOR STAFF WORK PLAN ITEMS 
NOT ON CITY COUNCIL PRIORTY LIST
•
Strategic Plan Implementation (CMO/All Departments)
•
Support/Enhance Citywide Community Engagement and Events Promotion (CMO)
•
Language Access Plan (CMO)
•
City Real Property Assets Inventory and Assessment (CMO)
•
Community Workforce Agreement Negotiations (CMO/PW)
•
Relaunch ESL City Services Academy (CMO/CDD/PD/Fire/Parks)
•
Potential 2026 Ballot Measure (CMO/Finance)
•
City Leadership Engagement and Coaching (CMO/HR)
•
Special Events Permit Policy Update (CMO/All Departments)
•
City and City Partner Events Planning and Support (CMO/Parks/PW)
•
Citywide Policy Evaluation and Updates (City Clerk’s Office/All Departments)
•
Election Campaign Sign Code Enforcement Administrative Policy (City Clerk’s Office)
•
Council Chambers AV/Facility Improvement (City Clerk’s Office/IT/PW)
•
2026 Election Administration (City Clerk’s Office)
•
Youth Voter Engagement Initiatives (City Clerk’s Office)
•
SB 707 (Brown Act Amendment) Implementation and compliance (City Clerk’s Office & Parks)
•
Agenda Management System Evaluation Review (City Clerk’s Office) 
•
Planning Application Process Evaluation and Streamlining (CDD/PW/CMO)
•
User Fee Study (CDD/PW/Parks/Finance)
•
Historic Resources Code/Policy Update (CDD/CAO)
•
Downtown Area Plan Update (CDD/CMO)
•
Triennial Building Code Adoption Cycle (CDD/CAO)
•
Zoning Code Update (CDD/CAO)
•
Building Art/Mural Policy (CDD/CMO)
•
Financial Sustainability Plan (Finance/All Departments) 
•
Cost Allocation Plan Update (Finance)
•
Explore bonding for stormwater master plan improvements (Finance)
•
Re-engineer Employee Recruitment and Selection Processes (HR/All Departments)
•
Recruitment, Marketing, and Outreach Plan (HR)
•
Fellowship Program (HR/All Departments)
•
Internship Program (HR/All Departments) 
•
Disability Programs, Policies, Procedures, and Handbooks (HR/CAO)
•
Employee Recognition and Rewards Program (HR/All Departments)
•
Total Compensation Survey Methodology (HR)
•
Training and Development Plan (HR)
•
Bring Your Children to Work Day (HR/All Departments)
•
Compliance with Federal, State, and Local Employment laws, rules, and regulations (HR/CAO)
•
Continued Phase II Workday Implementation/Adaptive Planning rollout (IT/HR/Finance)
•
PC replacements (IT) 
•
Secure new primary vendor for print materials. (Library)
•
Develop new space modification plan (Library)
•
4th annual San Mateo Celebrates festival. (Library)
•
Celebration of 20th anniversary of Main Library (Library)
•
Services to Shoreview/Parkside during Marina Branch closure. (Library)
•
King and Joinville Aquatic facility repairs and possible rental of SMHS pool (PW / Parks)
•
East Hillsdale Park Improvements (Parks)
•
Shoreview Skate Park Improvements (Parks)
•
Beresford Pickleball Pilot Program (Parks)
•
Koshland Program Initiative Collaboration (Parks)
33 of 34

--- page 34 ---
•
Central Park Japanese Garden Fundraising Campaign in conjunction with the Arboretum (Parks)
•
Poplar Creek Golf Course Well Project (PW & Parks)
•
Martin Luther King Resiliency Center Visioning (PW & Parks)
•
Synthetic Field Replacement – Los Prados Park (Parks)
•
Ryder Park Spray Ground Feasibility Study (Parks)
•
Lakeshore Child Care Feasibility Study (Parks)
•
Digital Accessibility Compliance Project (Parks)
•
Senior Transportation “Get Around” program evaluation (Parks)
•
Identify New Central Park Train Operator and Make Necessary Infrastructure Upgrades (Parks)
•
RFP for Food/Beverage Services for Poplar Creek Golf Course (Parks)
•
Enhance Security in Downtown (PD)
•
Real Time Information Center (PD)
•
Organized Retail Theft Grant (PD)
•
Citywide Security Project (PD)
•
Create Police Department 5-year Strategic Plan (PD)
•
Advance Fire Station 25 Traffic Substation to Operational (PD)
•
Police and Fire Service Coverage and Staffing Assessment (PD/Fire/CDD/CMO)
•
Creek Maintenance Permit (multi-year effort) (PW)
•
Storm/Stormwater Related Planning, Maintenance and Improvements (PW)
•
Transportation Division Enhancements (PW/CDD)
•
CIP Organizational Assessment (PW)
•
Small Wireless Facility Program Implementation (PW/CAO)
•
Comprehensive Facilities Assessment (PW)
•
Standard Details Update (PW)
•
Downtown Parking Fee Study (PW)
34 of 34